{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research 8890 4958","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_proceedings_v2_18_january_1884.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V2 January 18 1884","mylang":"de"}
Jan. 18,1884.] .Report of the Literary Oommittee. 43
PROCEEDINGS OF THE GENERAL MEETING ON
Friday, January 18, 1884.
The sixth General Meeting of the Society was held at II, Chandos
Street, Cavendish Square, on Friday, January 18, 1884.
PROFESSOR HENRY SIDGWICK, PRESIDENT, IN THE CHAIR.
IV.
SECOND REPORT OF THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
Committee :-W. F. BARRETT, F.R.S.E.; CIIAS. C. MASSEY; REV. W.
STAINTON MOSES, M.A.;F. PODMORE, M.A.; and EDMUND GURNEY,
M.A, and F. 'V. H. MYERS,'" M.A., lIon. Sees.
Abont a year has now elapsed since the first Report of the Literary
Committee was presented to the Society. During that period the
Committee has met 011 nearly 60 days, and its individual members have
done much work for it between the meetings. The time seems now to
have arrived when we may fitly give some account of the position in
which our work at present stands.
First, as to the Society's Library. Many books of value have been
presented to the Society, and a lady, who wishes to remain anonymous,
has contributed £50 as the beginning of a Library Fund. A Library
Sub-Committee has been appointed, and a catalogue of our collection,
amounting at present to more than 300 volumes, has been published in
Part IV. of our Proceedings.
It has been necessary so far to spend very little of the Society's own
funds on books, and the books thus purchased have been almost all of
them of a strictly scientific character. Among the books presented to
us there is more variety; but on the whole, our collection contains a
large proportion of rare and valuable works, which form a good invest-
ment, as for the most part they are already rising in price, and the
growing interest in our su~jects is likely to induce a further increment
in their value. It will be seen that we are particularly strong in the
older works on Mesmerism and Hypnotism, which contain many
important observations, and are now very rare.
Our Library, as we conceive it, is primarily intended for serious
Digitized by Loo
44 Report of th.e Litera,'!! Oommittee. [Jan. 18~
students of psychical topics. We wish to bring it to a point such that
no one who is investigating these subjects with any thoroughness may .
be able to neglect the advantages which it offers. But we desire also to
make it conveniently available for the less scientific reader, and we are
gradually purchasing duplicates of such books as we find to be most
()ften inquired for.
We shall be happy to receive suggestions as to books (especially
foreign books and articles) which might advisably be purchased; and
still more glad to receive gifts of such books or donations to the Library
Fund.
To pass on to the more specific work of the Committee; the collection
and examination of evidence.
A series of meetings of the Literary Committee, occupying the
greater part of eight days, was held at the President's house, at
Cambridge, August 20th-27th, 1883. The evidence bearing on Phantasms
()f the Living,-some 400 narratives which had been already printed on
slips,-was then considered; and a resolution was passed, (and subse-
quently approved by the Council,) entrusting to Messrs. Gurney, Myers,
and Podmore the composition and publication of a book to be entitled
"Phantasms of the Living," to be published with the sanction of the
Council, and as one of the publiea.tions of the Society.
The proposed scheme includes the apparitions at or about the
moment of death, which are one of the most widely attested forms of
such phenomena. The persons whose phantoms are discerned at this
last hour may still rank among living men. But, even thus, our
projected work is intended, as will be seen, to deal with a small
part only of the field which we hope in time to traverse. That field is
a. dark territory, and full of pitfalls, and the safest way of moving across
it is not to leap, but to crawl. We wish to make each foot of ground
secure as we proceed, and never to lose our line of communication with
familiar and established things.
Now our Society claims to have proved the reality of Thought-
transference,-of the transmission of thoughts, feelings, and images
from one mind to another by no recognised channel. of sense. And
here we find a starting-point from whence we can begin to consider
all impressions which seem to be flashed from one human being to
another,---:1Jlumtas1ll8, as we call them, in order to include under a term
more general than plwntomB impressions which may be not visual only.
but auditory, tactile, or purely mental in character.
While we deal thus with living human beings, we feel that we have
behind us a solid and increasing mass of experimental analogies, of which
we shall make the fullest use, and which will supply us, as we venture to
hope, with at any rate something nearer to a true philosophy of
a.ppariti,ons than it has till now been possible to frame.
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] Report of tlte Literary Oommittee. 45
Such is the task on which we are engaged; and of which we hope
in the course of a few months to present to the Society some consider-
able instalment. As for the book itself, we shall aim at its publication
in the course of this year; but the material grows on our hands, fresh
problems present themselves, and fresh inquiries are undertaken, till
the work which we once hoped to compress within one duodecimo volume
seems now likely to extend itself over two volumes octavo.
In the meantime, the greater part of the narratives which form
the substratum of the forthcoming book, are offered in printed slips to
the inspection of Members and Associates in the Society's rooms.
Those only are excepted which have been communicated under
conditions which would make it a breach of confidence thus to submit
them to view.
The cost of these slips, which will amount altogether to some
hundreds of pounds, is defrayed by a member of the Society, who:wishes
to remain anonymous. Their convenience is manifest. They enable each
member of the Committee to study each narrative, and to record his
comment or criticism in the readiest way. It must, of course, be under
stood that the fact of printing or exhibiting these slips does not imply that
any conclusion has been arrived at by the Committee as to the precise
va.lue of anyone of them. They are at present lying open to discussion,
and we should be very glad to receive any comments, additional
particulars, parallel cases, &c., which IIDY members of our Society who
study them may be disposed to write on the slips, or to send us. Most·
of the slips already printed refer to phantasms of the living, but
we are also collecting and printing similar narratives relating to
phantasms of the dead, premonitions, and other subjects, for future
consideration.
The labour involved in preparing these slips is very great. We
ca.lculate that over 10,000 letters have been written during 1883 in the
course of the collection and verification of evidence. This may seem
an extravagant number, and we trust that in future years the task will
in some respects become an easier one. For the difficulty depends in
great measure on the 'lWvelty of the inquiry, and consists in explaining
to correspondents what is wanted, and in inducing them to hunt up
dates, obtain corroborative signatures, &c., which in many cases they
can easily do when once they have been led to perceive the all-importance
of accuracy and precision in narratives of this kind. Much time and
trouble have been expended on persuading correspondents to allow the
publication of their names. We ourselves have, of course, the names
of all our correspondents; but we naturally think it right to place the
names before the public whenever we are permitted to do so. Some
cases, of course, there are where we should not think of requesting
such permission; cases where some painful or intimate circumstance
Digitized by Loo
46 Report of tlte Literary Oommittee. [Jan. 18,
eonnected with the narrative makes anonymity plainly desirable. But it
is not in these cases that our difficulties lie, but often in cases where
the story is one which our correspondent would be willing enough to
tell at any dinner-table. For the fact is, that persons unaccustomed to
seeing themselves in print suffer still in many cases from a kind of
unreasoning timidity which makes them dread unknown consequences
if they allow the public eye to rest on their own name printed in a
book, or on the name of their grandfather, or their mother-in-law, or
the husband of a former cook. Our correspondents' letters, their very
prejudices, are sacred in our eyes, or we could give some amusing
instances of this coy reluctance in cases where no' human being could
derive any annoyance if the whole story were in the newspapers at
once.
Much good has been done in this direction by the publication in
the Fortnightly Review of our first Report, containing a number of signed
narratives of apparitions. Not one of these narratives has been
shaken, and not one of the writers has complained of any ridicule,
notoriety, or other inconvenience as following on the publication of his
name and address in this widely circulated periodical But a wide change
in this respect can only be induced by gentle and gradual persuasion;-
we must not associate Psychical Research. in the public mind with
brusque interrogation or rash ~trusion into the sacred places of
memory.
Again, a large part of this correspondence is of a nature which
cannot make much show in any book or report. It has consisted in
the practice of the somewhat difficult art of courteous and unobtrusive
cross-examination ;-in endeavours to elucidate points where it seems to
us that there is a risk that our correspondents'memorymay have beendim
or incorrect. We desire, of course, not only that all our narratives shall
be the bond-fidedepositions of trustworthy persons-(of that wethink we
can make sure)-but also that there shall be as few as possible of those
little slips a.nd inaccuracies into which the most trustworthy person
sometimes falls, and which if subsequentJy discovered are represented
(sometimes very unfairly) as vitiating the whole account.
And if to any of our correspondents we have seemed needlessly
pertinacious, irritatingly pedantic in our constant requests to them to
look out contemporary documents, to procure original signatures, to get
the corroboration of a second person, which often seems so needless to
a narrator, conscious that he is telling the exact truth ;-in short, to
attend to minutUe on which we sometimes dwell so much that we may
perhaps seem to have overlooked the main point of the narrative
altogether ;-if we have seemed to inflict on our most useful informants
in this way trouble which might have been spared, we would ask their
pardon, and we would assure therq that the result of this minute verifi-
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] Report of tke Literary Oommittee. 47
eation is by no means, as a rule, to throw doubt upon the narratives
sent us, but much oftener to strengthen them in unexpected ways, and
especially to exhibit those undesigned coincidences with other accounts
of the same kind, which help to show that we have got hold of a plexus
of coherent phenomena, and not a mere bundle of isolated and indi-
vidual fantasies.
It is, however, an unfortunate peculiarity of the hltman race that
they are very unwilling to answer many letters of inquiry on the
same subject; and as we have no means except persuasion of getting
any answers from anyone at all, it may be supposed that to bring any
given narrative up to the required pitch of accuracy and completeness,
may sometimes be a very tedious matter. But the very slowness
and tediousness of the inquiry is in itself a safeguard, and correspon-
dents who see how attentively we ponder over every expression which
they use, feel themselves thus invited to a careful precision of state-
ment which in many cases is really remarkable. A critic of the rough-
and-ready school, indeed, will sometimes say to us, "Get your witnesses
together, put them on oath, and then I will believe them," but until
he offers to arm us with the powers of the law, "to swear witnesses
and call for documents," we shall permit ourselves to smile at his
somewhat crude conception of the way in which his fellow creatures
would be likely to behave when approached as he proposes to approach
them.
But although we do not present ourselves to our correspondents
with a Testament ready for ,them to kiss, and an oath to administer, we
do think it important to secure personal interviewl1 with them (at cdn-
siderable cost of time and trouble to ourselves, and sometimes, we fear,
ro them), whenever we can arrange such an interview without its
being felt as an intrusion. It has been suggested by one or two critics
that this personal acquaintance is valueless in those cases where it has
merely been acquired for the purpose of the inquiry. We may reply
that a juryman's acquaintance with a witness is generally acquired in
the process of the inquiry to which that witness's evidence relates ;
but that nevertheless he would be but an indifferent judge who should
consider it unimportant whether thejury saw the witnesses or not. The
fact, of course, is, thatin judging of men and women an interview of an
hour or two, though it is not so good as a lifelong intimacy, is incom-
parably better than nothing. It increases the sense of responsibility
and gives the opportunity for much individual detail, which may have
been thought too trivial for a formal correspondence.
On the whole, the trouble which we have taken in calling on our
eorrespondents has resulted in great satisfaction to our own minds.
We have found them decidedly not lacking in common-sense and ac-
curacy of mind; by no means ignorant of the possibility of mere morbid
Digitized by Coogle
48· Report of the Literary Oommittee. [Jan.18~
hallucinationS ;-and, in short, distingui$hed from the mass of mankind
not at all by being more imaginative or more hysterical~ but rather by
taking somewhat more of interest than other people in the scientific
acceptance of phenomena which they happen to have themselves.
observed.·
We are not to be understood as disparaging persons whose nervous
organisations are abnormally sensitive, or as expressing distrust of e~­
periences which differ widely from those of ordinary mankind. We
believe that from somee:x:ceptional, even from some morbidorganisations,
psychical science has much to learn. Some such abnormal natures we
are very glad to have encountered; and for certain experiments it is
much to be desired that we should find more " sensitives" of every
kind. But we are merely stating a simple matter of fact when we say
that the correspondents who have seen the apparitions which we have
so far collected,have,for the mostpart, been persons of a perfectly healthy
and normal type. We make ita rule (for instance) to ask each of them
whether they have ever experienced anything in the nature of a hallu-
cination besides the special case which they recount, and in hardly
any instances have they ever seen or heard anything else of the kind
at all.
But this brings us to a point at which we shall have to ask of all
our Members to render us all the assistance that they can. For it is
not enough, we think, for us to ask our correspondents who tell us of
dreams that" come true," and apparitions that coincided with deaths,
how many dreams of the same sort they have had which have not
"come true," and how many apparitions they have seen which have
coincided with nothing at alL This is necessary, but this is not enough.
What we should like,-it is of course impossible,-would be to get a.
regular census of death-dretloms and hallucinations, so as first of all to
know how many people in England had ever had hauntingly-vivid
dreams of the deaths of relations, and how many people in England
had ever seen a human figure in the room when nobody was there.
Then, next, we should like to know how many of these hauntingly-
vivid dreams had "oome true," and how many of these so-called hallu-
cinations had been flruUlrtelling impressions, that is, had coincided with
the death or other sudden shock of the person whose image was seen.
For, when speaking precisely, we must give the name of ltallucinaticm8
to all such images seen where no one is standing in bodily presence :_
though we may distinguish those hallucinations into the deceptive or
morbid hallucinations which are merely a symptom of diseased eyes or
brain, and the trutllrtelling, or, as we may call them, veridical halluci-
nations whioh do, in fact, coincide with some crisis in the life of the
person whose image is seen, and which, therefore, as we contend,
though they are in one sense hallucinations, yet have some reality be--
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] Jltport of tl~ Literary Oommittee. 49
hind them-some origin exterior to the eyes and brain of the person
who sees them.*
Well, if we knew how many hallucinations of both kinds were seen by
sane persOns in England in a year, and how many ofthose hallucinations
were trutl&-teUing, then we should be able to calculate in a very defini~
way whether chance alone would explain all the coincidences,-whether,
in fact, it was by mere accident that hallucinations ever told the truth.
We cannot, of course, make such a census complete, or such a calcula-
tion definite. But, if only enough people will help us, we ought to be
able to get at facts enough practically to put the matter beyond
controversy. Provisionally, we think ourselves justified in proceeding
on the assumption that hallucinations of the kind with which we are
mainly concerned-that is, IiOlitary hallucinations occurring only once
in a lifetime, and not attributable to·any known morbid condition of the
percipient's organism-are very rare phenomena: that they do not
occur, let us say, to one person in a hundred. This assumption is con-
firmed by the best estimate of common experience that we were able
to make without formal statistical investigation: and it is at least im-
plied in all that has been published on the subject of hallucination by
medical writers. Still it is an assumption which may always be disputed,
so long as it does not rest on a basis of carefully collected facts. Let us
consider how to ask for the statistics required in as precise a manner
as possible. First, as regards dreams. Oertain dreams are sent to us
which have turned out true, and it is argued that the dream, which
coincided with the event, was in some way caused by the event. Well,
let us consider what is the kind of dream which has a primd jacie look
of being something more than mere ordinary nonsense or nightmare f
IfI dream that a friend is dead, about whom I am in no way anxious
at the time, and if that dream is unusually vivid, and so haunting that
it continues to distress me not only while I lie in bed but for an hour
or more after I have got up; and if it afterwards turns out that my
friend did die that night, then there is some primd facie reason for me
to say: "I felt that this was no (YI'dinaf"/J dream; and now it is proved
that it was no ordinary dream, for it has come true." If, however, it
can be shown that most other people habitually have dreams just as
vivid and haunting as this of mine, which nevertheless do not come tru~
at all, then I shall probably have to admit that my dream came true by
mere chance, and was no proof of any subtle sympathy between my
dying friend and myself.
The question about dreams, then, which we want asked of as many
people as possible is this: "Oan you. recall that you have ever, in the
,,-aurae of the last 10 years, had a dream of the death of some person
• On thil subject see the interesting "Tho11lhts on Apparitions," by the
Bishop of Carlisle, in the Contemp01'ary Reviem for January, 1884. .
E
Digitized by Coogle
Report of tl~ Literary Oommittee. [Jain. 18,
known to you (about whom you were not specially anxious at the time),
which you marked as an exceptionally vivid one, and of which the -dis-
tressing impression lasted for as long as an hour after you rose in the
morning!" And similarly as regards hallucinations. In order to find out
how common mere morbid hallucinations are we have asked the question:
~'Have you ever, when in good health, and completely awake, had a
vivid impression of seeing, or being touched by, a human being, or of
hearing a voice or sound which suggested a human presence, when no
one was there 7"
The reception which these questions have met with illl1strates
the dangersof what may be (:Qllad O'IJer-scrupulo8ity in controversy.
Of course, we shol1ld have been pleased to get as many Noe8 as possible
in reply to these questions; for if (as we are inolincd to think is the
case) only a V6'1"IJ trmall percentage of people ever do have vivid death-
dreams or morbid hallucinations of any kind, then, of course, our caseIiI
of coincidence of dream or apparition with a friend's death .are all the
more valuable. But we were so anxious not to give any indication that
we welcomed the answer No, that we worded our questions in such a
way that (as it turns out) most people thought that the only answer
we cared about was Y68. Our critics ridiculed us for eagerly collecting
every kind of dr~m' or hallucination that we could lay our hands
on, and swallowing them all whole. And our friends did not
take the trouble to tell us that they had had no hallucinations.
They gave as an excuse for not answering our questions that
they could only have answered No, which was the very
answer that would have been most welcome, and they only wrote to I1S
when they lw,d some morbid hallucination to tell us of. We are
thus in danger of getting results which are of no value as statistics,
because the ordinary mass of mankind-who have not had
hallucinations or death-dreams-think that we do not care for
their answers. We must say more plainly, then, that we care
for all answers,-and for Noes fully as much as for Yeses,-and
we must earnestly ask each of our Members to take the trouble to
collect 25 or 50 or 100 answers for us. Let them simply send in the
number of Noes or Yeses on a postcard, as the circular instructs them ;
and then if there are any cases in any way interesting amongst the
number, let them send also on a. separate piece of paper an account of
such cases, as full as they are willing to make it.
This is a kind of help which we can hardly ask from casual acquaint-
ances-for it does, no doubt, involve some little trouble-flut we think'
that we are justified in urging the members of our own body to take.thiJI
amount of trouble for the ends which we all have in view. It is an
eminently good opportunity for the Societyto justify its own existence;
for the results, the importance of which we trust we have made clear,
Digitized by Coogle
,1884.] Report oJ'. the Literarv Oommittee. 51
can only be obtained by the active C<H>peration of a large body of
people, and, but for some such association as ours, might remain for
ever unsought and unknown. If all our members, or even a quarter
of them, would help as actively as some have already done, we should
have good hope of getting our questions answered, as we desire, by
.50,000 persons;
And, in truth, the need of a census of this kind (we must repeat) is
conspicuous from a scientific point of view. The medical authors who
have written on hallucinations are necessarily extremely vague as to
theirfrequency, and for the most part content themselves with repeat·
ing a certain group of striking cases, without much attempt to determine
whether these are truly typical in character. No real attempt at col-
lecting statistics has been made, and for our purpose statistics of hallu-
cinationare of the highest importance; and the best chance of obtaining
these is to make an effort so decided as to attract for the moment at
least the attention of large masses of people, and to induce them to
answer the easily-answered questions which are here proposed. We
hope that something of the collector's spirit may be aroused in many
minds for the service of the inquiry, The collection of perfectly futile
objects for the mere collection's sake, which amused our grandfathers
and grandmothers, has sunk now into the diversion of children. But the
.instinct remains in their elders, and still prompts to many a collection
()f butterflies or flowers, useless except as teaching accurate discrimina-
tion to the collector. We would ask that some of this energy may be
transferred to a field where there is still a harvest more ample than
the labourers can gather ininamely, the collection ofdefinite psychologi~
cal facts.
We want, then, the questions in the circular answered as widely as
,possible. And we want also, as much as ever, well-attested narratives
.of all kinds bearing on matters within our Society's scope. We find
sometimes that someone who could give us a well-attested account of
some death-wraith orsimilar phenomenon, refrains from doing so because,
as he says, CI You must have quite enough of such accounts at this stage
of the inquiry to establish the fact in question." But in reality we
can never have too many of such narratives. And we can never have
enougl6, so long as a well-attested fact of this kind is still spoken of as
"contradictory to experience" i moreover, what we want to do is not to
establish facts mere]y, but to explain them i and in orderto make even
the first approach to explanation in a subject so strange and obscure
we want the widest possible range of narratives to collate and compare.
Each narrative, besides its evidential interest as strengthening the
credibility of similar narratives, has its tlteoretical interest in enabling
us to trace with greater clearness the links of connection which corre-
late one such account with another; the significant features which
B 2
Digitized by Coogle
Report of tke Literary Cormnitiffe. [Jan. 18,
must be the basis of a true classification. To illustrate our meaning
by a single point: Every detail as to the clothing in which any
apparition is seen is of value, asindicatiilg whether the phantasmal
picture inay be more probably referred to the percipient's mind, or to
the 'agent's, or to some further source. We do not say that definite
laws can be laid down on such a point; but we do say that t1Us is the
way in which the laws of such apparitions are to be sought for,-by the
collation of every scrap of evidence which bears on some perfectly
definite problem, which must neCessarily have a solution expressible in
terms of our existing knowledge, if only that solution can be reached.
This is merely one instance of the numberless questions which need
the collection and collation of great masses of evidence before any
really permanent or scientific treatment of them is possible.
And those who aid us may feel that they are lending a hand to no
slight or trivial undertaking. The very violence of the attacks 'which
a certain school of thinkers have made on our work may be fairly taken
as unconscious evidence of the importance and novelty of the results
towards which our researches point. The school to which we refer is
that which insists, in tones louder sometimes andmore combative than the
passionless air of Science is willing to echo or convey, that all inquiries
into man's psychical nature, all inquiries which regard him as possibly
more than a portion of organised matter, are no longer open, but closed,
and closed against his aspirations for ever. For ourselves, we are far
Indeed from retaliating either the contempt or the animosity which this
able group of thinkers often express for us. Many of us have thought
.at one time as they think now ; and have learnt to honour the courage
which can face the worst, and which.scoms to feed with vain hopes the
creatures of a day. If we disagree with this school'-as we do funda-
mentally-it is not that we dispute their ability or their patience in
dealing with the facts on which they have concentrat.ed their aitention~
It is simply that we have taken pains to collect and master an immense
mass of evidence, .hich they have not yet included within the scope of
their inquiries.
They cannot complain of us for dogmatising, for we do not
dogmatise. They cannot complain of us for invoking sentiment in aid
of argument; for we have refrained, with a persistency which has per-
plexed and disappointed some of ~ur supporters, from anything which
could possibly be construed into an ad captandum appeal to the friends
of religion. All that can be complained of is that we are ready to take
facts as they come. But facts are facts, whatever view of the Universe
they make for. It is no blame to the materialist if theUniverse is &
soulless interaction ofatoms, and life a paltry misery, closed in the grave.
But neither is it any blame to us if the Universe is the field of spiritual
.energies,and if "highcapacious powers" do in truth "lie folded up inman!'
Digitized by Coogle
1884·1 A.ppendiJ: to Report of tlte Liter.ai"!/ Oommittee. 53
.APPENDLXo
We give here one of our cases where the percipient is one who has never
experienced any other hallucination of the senBes, and where the coincidence
of time is very close. It is from the Rev. Robert Bee, lA, Colin Street,
Wigan (curate of St. George's, Wigan) :-
On December 18th, 1873, I lett my house in Lincolnshire to visit my wife;s
parenta, then and now residing in Lord Street, Southport. Both my parents
were, to all appearance, in good health whenl started. The nextday after my
arrival was spent in lei.surely observation of the manifold attractions of this
fashionable seaside resort. I spent the evening in company with my wife in the
bay-windowed drawing·room upstairs, which fronts the main street of the town.
I proposed a game at chess, and we got out the board and began to play. Perhaps
half-an-hour had been thus occupied by us, during which I had made several
foolish mistakes. A deep melancholy was oppressing me. At length I remarked:
., It is no use my trying to play ; I cannot for the life think about what I am
doing. Shall we shut it u\l and resume our talk 7· I feel literally wretched."
"Justasyou like," said my wife, and the board was at once put aside.
This was about haIt-past 7 o'clock; and aftar a few minutes' desultory con-
versation, my wife suddenly remarked: "I feel very dull to.night. I think
I will go downstairs to mamma for a few minutes."
Soon attar my wife's departure, I rose from my chair, and walked in the
direction of the drawing-room door. Here I paused for a moment, and then
plB86d out to the landingof the stairs.
It was then exactly 10 minutes to 8 o'clock. I stood for a moment upon
the landing, and a lady, dressed as if she were going on a. business errand, came
out, apparently, from an adjoining bedroom, and passed close by me. I did not
distinotly see her features, nor do I remember what it was that I said to her.
The form passed down the narrow, winding stairs, and at the same instant my
wife came up again, so that she must have passed close to the stranger-in fact,
to all appearance, brushed against her.
I exclaimed, almost immediately, "Who is the lady, Polly, that you passed
just now, ooming up f "
Never can I forget, or account for my wife's answer. "I passed nobody,"
she said.
"Nonsense," I replied. "You met a lady just now, dressed for a walk. She
came out of the little bedroom. I spoke to her. She must be a visitor staying
·with your mother. She has gone out, no doubt, at the front door."
.. It is impossible," said my wife. "There is not any oompany in the house.
They all left nearly a week ago. There is no one, in fact, at all indoors but our-
selves and mamma."
" Strange," I said; "I am certain that I saw and spoke to a hdy, just before
you came upstairs, and I saw her distinctly pass you, so that it seems incredible
that you did not perceive her."
My wife positively asserted that the thing was impossible. We went down-
stairs together, and I related the story to my wife's mother, who was busy with
her household duties. She oonflrmed her daughter's previoul! statament; there
was no one in the house but ourselves.
The next morning, early, a ~legram reached .me from Lincolnshire; it was
from my elder sister, and announced the aftlicting intelligence that "our dear
moGher had passed suddenly away the night before; and that we (i.e., myselfan1
wife) were to return home to Gainsborough by the next train.'
Digitized by Coogle
64 .Appendi:x to Report of the Literary Committee. [Jan. 18,
I could scarcely realise the fact for a moment, and I forbear to attempt any
description of my subsequent feelibgs. I have the consolation of knowing that
my mother was prepared for her end, a satisfaction to us'all in our bereavement.
The doctor said it was heart disease, whioh in a few minutes had caused her,
death.
.After giving somedetails of his arrival at home, and of the kindness of friends.
Mr. Bee oontinues :-
When all was over, and Christmas Day had arrived, I ventured to ask my
brother the exaot moment ,of our mother's death.
"Well, father was out," he said, "at the sohool-room, and I did not see her
alive. Julia was just in time to see her breathe her last. It was, as nearly as I
can recolleot; 10 minutes to 8 o'cZock."
I looked to my wife for a moment, and then said: "Then I saw her in
Southport, and o!p.n now account, unaooonntably, for my impressions."
Before the said 19th of December I was utterly careless of these things; I
had given little or no attention to spiritual apparitions or impressions. I was
utterly careless of these things.
In answer to inquiries Mr. Bee adds :-
My mother died in her dress and boots; she was taken ill in the street, and
had to be taken to a neighbour's house in Gainsborough a few paces from her own
house. The figure resembled my mother exaotly as to size, dress, and appearance
but it did not reoall her to,my mind at the time. The light was not SO dim that
if my mother had aotually passed me in flesh and blood, I should not have
recognised her.
In answer to the question whether this is the only case of hallucination that
he has experienced, Mr. Bee answers "Yes."
He further adds :-
The gas'light over the head of the stairway shone within a frosted globe'
and was probably not turned on fully.
The fact is, that there was ample light to see the figure in, but just as the face
might have been tnrned to me, or was turned to me, I oould not, or did not,
olearly discern it. Many, many times, my regret and disappointment when I
recall this fact have been deeply felt.
Mrs. Bee writes to us as follows :-
If anything I can say to you will be of any use, I will willingly give my
testimony to all my husband hall said. I remember perfeotly 10 years ago my
visit to my mother's, and my husband's unacoountable restlessness on the
particular evening mentioned, also Mr. Bee asking me, after I had been down-
stairs, if I had met a lady on the stairs. I said .. No, I do not think there is any
one in the house but us." Mr. ,Bee then said, "Well, a lady has passed me just
now on the landing; she came out of the small bedroom and went downstairs ;
she was dressed in a black bonnet and shawl." I said, " Nonsense, you must be
mistaken." He said, "I am oertain I am not, and I can assure you I feel very
qlleer." I then went to ask mamma if there was anyone in the house, and she
said no, only ourselves; still Mr. Bee insisted someone had passed him on the
landing, although we tried to reason him out of it.
In the morning, while we were in bed, we received a telegram stating that
Mrs. Bee had died suddenly the night before. I said at once, .. Robert, that was
your mother you saw last night." He said it was. When we got to Gainsborough
we asked what time she died; we were told about 10 minutes to 8, which
was the exaot time; also that she was taken suddenly ill in the street (wearing
at the time a black bonnet and shawl) and died in 10 minutes.-MABY ANN BEE,
1884.] Appendw to·Report of the Literar!l .Oommittee.
. Now when the apparition is, like Mr. Bee's, a quite unique experience in
the percipient'slife, and where its coincidence with a death is as close as this,
the improbability of a mere chance coincidence is so enormous that it is hard
to express it with anything like accuracy in actual figures.
We will, however, roughly show the lines on which such a problem would
need to be worked.
Let us say that the percipient has had only 30 years of intelligent life,
and that during those 30 years he has slept for nine hours a day. He has
then had 15 x 30 x 365=164,250 hours of waking intelligent life. Now, in
this space of time he has had ol&e apparition, which resembled his mother,
and was within a few minutes of her death. Now if we say only that it was
within the quarter of an hour in which death occurred, there are
Ui4,250 hours=657,OOO quarter-hours of life in which that apparition might
have come; so that the chance of its coming in the right quarter-hour was
~m mra (keeping to round numbers). But this is on the supposition
that the oniy apparition which could possibly appear to him would be his
mother's, or at least one which resembled his mother in general aspect as
nearly as the phantom which he actually saw.
Now visual hallucinations known to be morbid are by no means limited
to the human shape; they are grotesquely varied in ways too numerous to
mention. But, for the sake of argument, we are willing to assume (it is &
monstrous assumption) that one-tenth of all phantoma accidentally caused are
likely to resemble a lady in a blackbonnet and shawl. The chance, then, that
an apparition of the right class (the old lady class) would show itself in the
right quarter-hour (the quarter-hour of actual decease) will be l,S6'i',999Ulli II ".;••00" '0
is; or the chances against this happening to any given person will be over
6i millions to one. That is to say, in order to explain satiafactorily Mr.
Bee's experit'nce on the supposition of accidental coincidence, it ought to be
shown that there are something like 6i million adult Englishmen now living
who have had one single visual hallucin&tion of a very distinct sort in the
course of their lives.
Even if Mr. Bee's case stood alone, this result would be somewhat sur-
prising. Of course it does 1I.Ot stand alone ; and if we take from our store,
say only nine more cases of equally close coincidence attending an appa-
rition seen by an English adult now living, and not otherwise subject to
hallucin&tions,-say, for instance, the cases on slips 55,92,229, 352, 382,
602,627,628, 685,-we increase the improbability tenfold, and require that
65,000,000 English adulta now living should have had a single distinct visual
hallucination, to make it probable that in these ten cases the coincidence
would have accidentally occurred as it did.
Digitized by Coogle
06 . Note o,~ the E:ristellce of a '~Jfagnetic Sense." [Jan. 18,
V.
NOTE ON THE EXISTENCE OF A "MAGNETIC SENSE."
By PROFESSOR W. F. BARRETT.
The experience of those who have worked with large magnets and
of mell of science generally, is entirely opposed to the notion that
magnetism can be felt or can exert any good or ill effect on the human
body or other organism. Nevertheless, the statements of Reichenbach,
Gregory, Ashb~rner, and others seem to indicate that upon certain
.sensitive"subjects" a magnet can produce a distinct and powerful
.inHuence. The investigation of this question properly belongs to thE:
" Reichenbach" Committee, _and has been referred to in their first
report; the object of the present note is merely to detail a few inde-
-pendent experiments which I have recently made, whilst Mr. G. A.
Smith was in Dublin.
When a powerful electro-magnet was employed, Mr. Smith stated
that he distinctly felt" an unpleasant sensation when he approached the
magnetic poles. The effect seemed to be most powerful when his temple
was nearly touching one pole ; except on one day, when suffering from
facial neuralgia, and then he appeared much mo~ sensitive in the
face than in the forehead. The peculiar and unpleasant sensation
produced by the magnet he describes as slowly rising to a maximum
in 15 or 20 seconds after the current has been sent round the coils of
the electro-magnet. In like manner the effect seemed to die down
slowly after the contact was brokeh. Unknown to Mr. Smith, the
Circuit was closed and opened several times, and the magnetism corre-
spondingly evolved, ordissipated,the result being that there was. a fairly
.accurate correspondence between the physical and the pSychical effect.
The faint molecular crepitation which accompanies the magnetisation
of iron, and can be heard when the ear is very near the magnet,
is, however, very apt to mislead the imagination. To avoid this,
Mr. Smith was placed at a distance where this faint sound could not
be heard, and he was then requested to walk up to the electro·
magnet, and, judging only from his sensations, to state if the current
were "on" or "oft:" The experiment was made 12 times succes-
sively, and he was correct in 10 out of the 12 trials. Assuming the
fact of Thought-transference, the imagination might, it is true, have
been misled; but as I did not find Mr. Smith able at other times to
respond to my unexpressed will, it is hardly probable that my know-
ledge as to when the current was on or off would suffice to explain his
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] Note 0" tke EzisiCllct of a "Magnetic Sen8e." 07
success. Of course it would be possible for a trickster, using a concealed
compass-needle, to be able to impose on a careless experimenter; but
care was taken, and I have not the least reason to doubt the bona
foUs of Mr. Smith. Obviously the foregoing observation, which I
have thought it better to put on record, is of little vaJue unless corrobo-
rated by a far more extensive series of experiments, conducted with the
most stringent precautions to avoid the creation of illusory effects.
ApPENDIX, added Marclt 12tlt.
Sir William Thomson has published in Nature for March 6th, 1884,
the report of an address on the "Six Gateways of Knowledge,"
delivered by him in Birmingham. In this address Sir William remarks,
"If there is not a distinct magnetic sense, I say it is a very great
wonder that there is not," and he then refers to an experiment made to
test this point in the following words :-
"This experiment was carried out in a most powerful manner by Lord
Lindsay (now Lord Crawford), assisted by Mr. Cromwell F . Varley. Both of
those eminent men desired to investigate the phenomena of mesmerism,
which had been ca.lled animal magnetism ; and they very earnestly set to
work to make a real physical experiment. They asked themselves, Is it con-
ceivable that, if a piece of copper can scarcely move through the air between
the poles of an electro-magnet, a human being or other living creature placed
there would experience no effect 1 Lord Lindsay got an enormous electro-
magnet made, so large that the head of any person wishing to try the experi-
ment could get well between the poles, in a region of exceSBively powerful
magnetic force. What was the result ofthe experiment 1 If I were to say
fIOthing! I should do it scant justice. The result was marvellous, and the
marvel is that nothing was perceived. Your head, in a space tbrough which
a piece of copper falls as if through mud, perceives nothing. I say this is
a very great wonder; but1 do not admit, I do not feel, that the investiga-
tion of the subject is completed. I cannot think that the quality of matter
in space which produces such a prodigious effect upon a piece of metal
can be absolutely without any-it is certainly not without any-effect what-
ever on the matter of a living body; and that it can be absolutely without
any perceptible effect whatever on the matter of a living body placed there
seems to me not proved even yet, although nothing has been found. It is so
marvellous that there should be no effect at all, that I do believe and feel
that the experiment is worth repeating ; and that it is worth examining,
whether or not an exceedingly powerful magnetic force has any P,8rceptihle
effect upon a living vegetable or animal body. I spoke t.hen of a seventh
aense. I think it just pOBBible that there may be a magnetic sense. I think
it possible that an exceedingly powerful magnetic effect may produce a sensa-
tion that we cannot compare with heat or force or any other sensation."·
• Upon this point a medical authority, Dr.W. H. Stone, published the following
remarks four years ago :_U It appears that a similar question was longago asked
of Faraday, when he was engaged on his diamagnetic discoveries by means of the
Digitized by Coogle
68 Note on the EJ:iBtence of a "Magnetic 8el188." [Jan. 18,
For some time prior to Sir William's lecture experiments ha"e been
in progress in my laboratory, the object of which is to ascertain if any
special and perceptible effect is produced upon any living organism
by a powerful magnetic field. Large helices have been made to encircle
the head and limbs, and through them a strong electric current can be
sent; so far nothing has been felt in my own case from the intensefield
of magnetic force thus generated. I have also had the opportunity of
trying the effect of the enormously powerful magnetism generated in one
of the larger sized "Brush" dynamo-electric machines. The machine
was dismantled, its revolving armatnre being remo'Ved, and the massive
pole pieces attached to the field magnets of the machine adjusted soo
that they clasped the head on either side. A current of great strength.
generatedby a largaSiemens dynamo, was then sent through the magnets.'
but neither in my own case, nor in several others who tried was any':
thing felt that could be attributed to a "magnetic sense." The
circles indicate the poles of the pair of magnets and the crosses the
successive positions in which the head was placed.
x
x x
x
x
®
large magnet belonging to the Royal Institution. He stated that he had never
been able to trace the slightest physiological e1fect, whether sensorial, motor, or
hypnotio, on himself when using the strongest ,magnetio fields then attainable.
It is true that the disoovery of dynamo-magnetio maohines has placed at our
disposal currents of vastly greater electro-motive force and quantity than were
then available. With these the subject should, if at all, be patiently investigated.
One or two rather trivial facts, 8uoh as the inability of many persons of nervoUB.
temperament, of whom the writer is one, to sleep soundly in the north and south
position, and the singular vitality of magnetio treatment from very early times.
. down to the present, are hardly strong enough to countsrvail the negativeevidence
here adduced. Still the subject, not being in direct contravention of any known
soientifio facts, deserves further investigation in a fair and dispassionate spirit.
It seems primafaciB improbable that so important a factor in ooemogony shouid
be otiose and inefRoaoious in its highest development-human life." Baron
Reiohenbach, a8 is well known, made numerous experiments on the effect of the
position of the bed onpersons of sensitive temperament. Hefound thatinvariably
the most pleaiant position and the most refreshing sleep was obtained when the
head was to the north and the feet to the south. These results were obtained
with persons he terms" siok sensitives," but a much larger number of carefully-
conducted observations on these and others are needful before any conclusions o~
the least weight can safely be drawn, as it is most important, but most difRoult.
to exolude the effect of the imagination.
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] Note ola .thc Exisfence 01 a "Magnetic Sel/se." 59
But whilst the results were negative in this case, and doubtless
would generally be found so, yet Oharcot has shown that in certain
cases of hysterical patients a transference of sensation from one side
of the body to. the other is produced by magnetism. An apparent
confirmation of these results was obtained by Dr. Stone in the case
of a patient of his at St. Thomas' Hospital. The case is recorded
in the Reports of St. Thomas' Hospital, Vol. X., 1880, and the follow-
ing is the part relating to the specific effect ot magnetism :-
JULY lsT.-Dr. Stone, thinking it probable that repeated examination by
this time might have put the patient on her guard, and roused an inclination
to simulate, described minutely the e1fects obtained by M. Charcot with
magnets in her presence, intimating his expectation that the anreBthesia
would be transferred. This was the fil'.8t hint she had received, as all clinical
observations hadhitherto been made out of the ward. and the students had
been enjoined strict silence in her presence. A magnet of eight large steel
plates was placed in the bed beside the sensitive leg, and there left. It was,
however, flfm-magneti&ed, and reallyonly an inert piece of steel. On the follow-
ing morning she answered clearly and with great simplicity ''that it had done
nothingat all ; she did not know it was there." It was then taken away on
BOme pretext, stronglymagnetised by means of a powerful electro-magnet,
and returned to the ward apparently unchanged on the 3rd.
7TH.-On its being simiiarly applied, after magnetiBation, the anresthesia
disappeared from the affected leg, but no alteration occurred in the other.
The chief points of interest of the case are, first, that the age, character,
and simplicity of the patient precluded any suspicion of imposture; secondly,
that singular precautions were from the first adopted to preclude the p088i-
bility of unconscious deception from the effect of "expectant attention;n
thirdly, the marked and unequivocal effect of magnetism. .
This case offers the most trustworthy evidence which has hitherto come
under my personal observation of the influence of the magnetic field on
ordinary sensation. It is materially strengthened, moreover. by an interest-
ing communication by Dr. Julius Dreschfield, in the British Medical J0'U1"IUJl
of August 14th. in which he shows the efficacy of the same great physical
power in non-hysterical cases. Another valuable contribution to the
physiology of the subject is contained in the Joy/mal of Anatomy and
Phyriology for January, 1879, from the pen of Professor M'Kendrick, in
which he demonstrates the fact that" a portion of nerve stretched between
the poles of an electro-magnet, so as to touch each, will not excite contrac-
tions in a muscle when touched by a copper wire during the p&B8&ge of the
current through the wire of the electro-magnet."
It is to be regretted that neither of these last writers affords any quanti-
tative clue to the intensity of the magnetic field employed. Judging from
the proved phenomena of diamagnetism and those of the action on ~ht, the
field should be of considerable strength, but whether it acts most when
diffused or when concentrated requires further investigation. The unilate-
raIity of nervous functional conditions certainly points to the hypothesia
already named of equilibrium more or leBS stable between the two halve.
Digitized by Coogle
60 Note on the Existence of a "Magnetic Sense." [Jan. 18,
of the nervous system, like that of a duplexed cablt.'. This is also confirmed
in a physical point of view by the slow oscillations of transferred sensibility,
which closely resemble those of a metronome pendulum, in which the inert
Dl88II is large and the unequilibrated moving force proporti(lnately small A
far less magnetic movement would also be competent to disturb such a
system than one in more stable surroundings.
For fa.rther experiments I have constructed a large electro·magnet wound
with a belix of iron instead of copper wire. It developes a singularly spaciouB
and regular series of curves even with a battery of moderate intensity. I
propose also to excite it by means of a fine gramme machine which has
recently come into my possession. Whether the results ultimately prove
positive or negative, it is clear that a sufficient primd facie case is made out
•for further investigation.if.
Although the magnet did appear to exert "a marked and
unequivocal effect" on Dr. Stone's hystero-epileptic patient, yet it is
obvious that a larger number of experiments, conducted with stringent
precautions, are necessary before any general induction can safely be
drawn.
* Dr. Stone informs me that the trials he made with this magnet upon him-
elf and other healthy individuals yielded no evidence of any sensory effect
peculiar to magnetifm. It is chiefly with this elrotro-magnet, through Dr.
Stone's kindness, that the experiments of the Reichenbaoh Committee have been
made.
Digitized by Loo
1884.] The Stages of Hupnoti~JII. 61
VI
THE STAGES OF HYPNOTISM.
By EDMUND GURNEY.
One of the first things which strikes the student of what is often
loosely called the "hypnotic" or "mesmeric" state is this-that even
the simplest manifestations of hypnotism are wont to present not one
state but two, distinguished from one another by very marked character-
istics. But the distinction, as usually drawn, has been of a very rough
kind. As a rule, it has been noticed that good "subjects" first get into
a state in which many of them show great acuteness of sensibility, and
in which all of them can be made to do or imagine very odd things; and
that from this they gradually merge into a state of profound sleep or
even coma. Such were the stages as originally observed by Braid, and
subsequent investigation has done little to define them further. I am
going to point out what appear to me grave deficiencies in this distinc-
tionof states, and to attempt to draw a much more precise one. But,
before doing so, it is necessary to refer to another mode of distinction,
which, if not cleared out of the way, might greatly confuse us. In
discUssions on hypnotism we continually find three types of condition
recognised-the cataleptic, the letltargic, and the somnambulic: the
cataleptic being the condition where the limbs will remain in any
position in which they may be placed, without effort on the "subject's "
part; the lethargic being the condition where the muscles are relaxed,
but abnormally liable to contractions and spasms uuder gentle stimula-
~on; the somnambulic being the condition in which the "subject"
exhibits the singular eccentricities of conduct associated with public
entertainments. But though these are all real and important conditions,
they do not the least represent distinct state. ofthe individual, or distinct
stages of ltypnotullt. For the peculiarities of muscular condition may
quite well co-exist with that peculiar mental state which is described as
somnambulic. The cataleptic state, moreover, does not belong to normal
hypnotism at all, but is a decidedly exceptional phenomenon, and can
only be considered otherw~ by confusing it with the mere ordinary
'l'igidity of the limbs; and lLgain the effects of muscular irritability may
be locally produ~d, by hypnotic processes, in various parts of the body,
while. the "aubject " remains in his normal waking state. On the whole,
then, this mixing up of physical and mental and of constant and
occaaib~al-cha.racteristics, in a list which professes to sum up the fundlY'
meritPl.MmlS of hypnoti/lm, seems extremely misleading; I!Jld ,in what
Digitized by Coogle
62 .TIle Stage8 of Hvpnotism. [Jan.18~
follows I shall speak only of cases where the mind of the "subject" is
to some extent affected, and shall base my distinctions primarily on the
constant features which that mental affection displays.
If, then, the "subject "-the conscious individual and not merely a.
part of his body-has succumbed to the hypnotic influence, if he has
passed out of his normal waking state and crossed the threshold of
trance, then, before he reaches the profound sleep in which his mental
condition is a mere blank, there lie before .him two and only two
markedly distinct states or stages, each of which however may present
within itself a very large amount of variety. We may conveniently
designate them as the alert state or stage and the deep state or stage.
These states a~, I believe, produced or producible in the ease of every
" subject" who is sufficiently susceptible to hypnotism to be able finally
to be put to sleep by it; but the question:will very naturally occurhow,
if that is so, there can ever have been a doubt about it. How isit that
the character, and even the very existence, of the two states has escaped
general recognition 1 The answer is broadly this,-that, in the fim
place, each state admits of many degrees, and the characteristics of
either of them may be only very slightly or only very transiently
presented; and in the second place, unless special means are adopted, it
is very easy to mistake the alert state for normal waking, and the deep
state for sleep. This will become clearer when the states themselves
have been further described.
To begin, then, with the alert state. This is the state in which a
"subject" is when, after the usual preli~inary period of gazing fixedly
at some object held near the eye, or of having passes made over the
upper part of his person, and after the usual involuntary closure of his
eyes, the strain on his eyelids is released by a few touches and words,
and he is restored to what may look quite like his natural waking con-
dition. Sometimes, it is true, the difference is '\"ery marked, and he will
sit with a vacant air, irresponsive to every voice except that of the
operator, and clearly nol; in possession of his ordinary faculties. He
may be made to perform imitative actions and to obey commands in a.
mechanical way; but his consciousness may be at a very low ebb, or (as
some have held) may have lapsed altogether. But even these cases will
exhibit two characteristics of the alert stage which are also characteris-
tics of normal waking :-the "subject's" eyes will be open and capable
of seeing; and he will (almost invariably) prove sensitive to pain if he
be pinched or pricked. Very often, however, the resemblance to normal
wakefulness is far closer than this; for the " subject " will be found to
converse with perfect comprehension, memory, and even humour. ·Wlu."re
then does the essential distinction of his state lie 1
The main point which can be observed atthe moment is that, tllOUgh
perfectly capable of sustaining a conversation, he does not originat6
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] Tile Stages of Hypnotism. 63
remarks. If not spoken to he will sit quiet, and, if simply asked what
he is thinking about, he will almost always answer" Nothing." Perhaps
it may be said that even this condition of passive vacancy is after all
not so very different from that in which a large number of our fellow-
creatures spend a large portion of their waking hours. If this be
allowed, then we shall have to seek the essential difference' of the
hypnotic condition, not in any feature which it immediately presents,
but wholly in two possibilities attaching to it, either of which demands
appropriate treatment to become a reality. In the first place, if the
" subject" be left completely to himself, he will rapidly sink into the
'deeper state, and thence into hypnotic sleep, in either of which he will
prove insensitive to any moderate amount of torture. Olearly the con-
dition which leads rapidly and naturally on to further conditions of
this sort is not a normal one: it can never be said of a person in a
'1'1.O'N'114l state, however sleepy he may be, that in two or three minutes
he will be in a condition when pins may be run into him, or the severest
pinches applied, without awaking him or 'evoking any signs of distress.
The passage into these deeper conditions, it should be observed, is often
so rapid that the fact of their being reached througl~ tluJ alert stage may
be wholly unnoticed. The hypnotising process may carry a sensitive
" subject" in a minute or less from a condition of normal waking into
hypnotic sleep; and in such a case the "alert" period has been repre-
sented only by the few seconds before his eyes closed. If he had been
taken in hand during those few seconds, and had been talked to or kept
employed, this passage into the deeper state would have been prevented;
but if he is allowed to follow the natural course without interferrmce,
he will simply be seen to go to sleep, and he must be awakened by the
operator before ~ny phenomena can be exhibited. This liability to
lapse, then, is one distinguishing characteristic of the alert state.
It is characterised, in the second place, by the possibility of obtain-
ing, while it lasts, certain special phenomena of an active sort. The
" subject" can be made to do, and to continue doing, any action which
the operator commands, although he may be perfectly conScious of
making a fool of himself, and may strongly desire to resist the command.
He can also be put under the in1luence of delusions-canhave his senses
deceived, so that he mistakes saltfor sugar, ammonia for,eau de Cologne;
or can even be made to believe that he is in some distant place, or that
his identity is changed.* These are the common platform-phenomena;
* It should be remarked that even here the necessity remain8 of 8timulating
the" 8ubjeot " from time to time, to keep him. going. When he is under a delu-
sion, he will 80metimesgive long oonneotedaooonntB, ingreat part often fiotitious,
as if he were following the oourse of a dream; but though very slight questions
and oommentB will be enough to make him prooeed, he will not do 80 if left to
sustain a oompJete monologue.
Digitized by Coogle
64 Tile Stages of H!lprloti8111t [Jan. 18,
and as the very object of hypnotising a "subject " at all is usually to
procure some of them, and the possibility of procuring them is thus
practically certain to be tested, it might seem that the recognition of
the abnormality of his state was in this case, at any rate, assured. But
Ulough this may be so during the course of the manifestations, it is not
UDjrequently otherwise at their close ; and a " subject" who has been
allowed, perhaps, to lapse into sleep, while others are being operated on,
ia often roused and 'even sent away, without its being observed that he
has been roused not into a state of normal wakefulness, but only into
the alert stage of hypnotism. To all appearance he is quite himself ;
and, the performance being over, it does not occur to anyone to try'
whether he is still at the mercy of commands and delusions; while the
general stir and commotion prevent him from lapsing again into sleep.
So he' goes off home, acting and answering in a quite natural manner,
till the effect wears gradually off; or, as more often happens, he COD-
tin'les to feel drowsy and headachy, goes to bed, and wakes up in his
\1sual condition next morning.
Passing now to the deep stage, we find that this in tum is liable to
be confounded with a contiguouscondition, namely,.thegenuine hypnotic
aleep into which it tends to merge. It resembles that condition in the
fact that the eyelids are closed ; that, if one of them be forcibly raised,
t,he eyeball is found to be rolled upwards j in the general insensibility
to pain and to ordinary modes of stimulation. And there exists here
precisely the same ::hance as we noted in the former case, that the
particular stage will escape detection. If the " subject " be left to him-
self, he will have no opportunity to manifest its characteristics, but,
passing rapidly through the period during which these might be evoked,
,nIl soon lose consciousness and individuality in profound slumber.
With some "subjects," moreover, the invasion of mental torpor is so
rapid tltat it might be hard to fix and ~~ them in the genuine deep
stage, even if the proper means were adopted. But many others, if
taken in time, after their eyea are closed and they have become
insensible to pain, but before sleep has intervened, will prove quite
capable of rational conversation j they are mentally awake, even when
their bodies are almost past. movement, and when even, a simple com-
mand is obeyed in the most languid and imperfect manner. The state
is, however, harder to sustain at an even level than the alert one,owing
to a stronger and more continuous tendency to lapse into a deeper
condition. In the alert state the" subject" can usually be kept going
for an indefinite time : in the deep state he usually shows an increasing
dislike to being qu~stioned or meddled with.
Enough, perhaps, has been said to show how the two stages of
hypnotism may be distinguished trom normal waking on the one hand
and from blank slumber on the other. But the marks which have been
. "
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] TI,e Stage8 of Hypnotism. 65
so far given as distinguishing the two stages from one anotllM are by
no means equally constant and precise. The closure of the eyes, the
insensibility to pain, the disinclination, amounting sometimes almost to
inability; to move, are all in a general way characteristic of the deep
stage; and to them mp.y be added a diminution of the irritability of the
conjunctiva and of the susceptibility of the pupil to light, with irre-
sponsiveness to any voice but that of the operator." But of these
characteristics the only one which is invariable is the bodily torpidity.
Olosure of the eyes is nearly iuvariable; but I myself have seen two
well-marked instances where the eyes remained wide open throughout
the period which, as judged by all other indications, was certainly the
deep stage. The irritability of the eye is sometimes only slightly
affected. Insensibility to pain, though usual, is liable to still more
frequent exceptions, as also is the irresponsiveness to the address of
persons other than the operator. Nor are these normal features of the
deep stage, even when present, entirely distinctive; as more than one
of them are often also present in the alert. The irritability of
the eye may suffer marked diminution at the very beginning of
the hypnotising process.t Again, not only is insensibility of a
local sort in the alert stage one of the commonest phenomena of
public exhibitions, when an arm or a leg is stitrened, and submitted to
the audience to stick pins into or otherwise maltreat; but even general
insensibility may superveno while the" subject lJ is still open-eyed and
capable of actively responding to suggestions and commands. This is
especially the case if his attention.is strongly directed in some particular
channel; for instance, a "subject". who normally is sensitive in the
alert stage, if while in the de6vstage he be ordered to do some particular
thing when he wakes, and be then roused into the alert stage, wiJl often
prove insensitive till the tl&ing i8 done. Similarly I have known a
"subject," who was quite sensitive before, become insensitive after, the
communication of some strong impression. Being told that his sweet-
heart was drowned, he expressed the resolution not to survive her; and,
while in this heroic mood, he bore the severest and most continuous.
• How little even the most elementary dittinotions between the two states
have been realised by high authorities, a couple of specimens from Heidenhain
may show. "The pupil of a hypnotised person contracts energetically when light.
falls upon the eye." It is impossible that this sweeping assertion could have
been made, had Heidenha\n examined eyes in anybut the alert state. "Hypnotised
persons never fall down." This statement, it is true, he qualifies in a note by
saying that he has seen one person tall down. The fact, of course, is that in an
enormous majority of oases(I myself have never seen an exoeption) the" subject,,.
if standing, falls downs a very few: seconds after olosing his eyes and lapsing into.
the deep state.
t See (in addition to the observations of Braid, Tambnrini, and Seppelli), the
oase recorded by Mr. Stanley Hall in Mind, XXX., 1'.177.
I'
Digitized by Coogle
66 Tile Stages of H!lpnotism. [Jan. 18,
pinching without a sign of sensation. In such cases the nervous energy
is all, so to speak, concentrated into a single channel, in the performance
of the task or the contemplation of the catastrophe, and there is none
left to feel with-just as it has happened to soldiers in the excitement
of battle to be temporarily unconscious of woupds. Insensibility to
pain may also be present in the alert state, if the "subject" is put
under the influence of such a delusion as would naturally involve it,
e.g., if he is made to believe he is a statue; and I have known insensi-
bility, which originated in this way, continue for some little time after
the delusion was withdrawn, and another substituted-the phenomenon
being the more remarka~le in that the" subject," who had been receiv-
ing the most savage nipping with total indifference, actually shed tears
at the memory of a fictitious nipping, which he was told had been
administered to him on the previous day. Closure of the eyes, again,
may be present in a state which in respect of every other symptom is
the alert one: indeed, unless the spasm which brings down the eyelid
during hypnotisation be relieved by some distinct local process, the eye
might naturally remain closed as much during the alert stage as during
the deep. Nor can we even account the bodily activity which may be
evoked during the alert stage, in contrast with the torpidity of the deep
onE', as a really sharp or essential distinction. The activity, it will be
remembered, always has to be evoked ab extra, and often much against
the" subject's" inclination. If left to himself, he will sit as passive in
the former state as in the latter, and the one will insensibly merge into
the other. The difference here, then, might seem to be one rather of
degree than of kind; and the two states to be merely the less and the
more advanced stages on the path to complete torpor. I may add that
the advance of mental decline, where it can be marked, seems to be of
the same graduated kind. Thus a " subject" who, first in the alert and
then in the deep state, is assured that he is going to be hanged next
morning, will succumb to the idea with about equal readiness in both
cases; and thc only observable difference will be that in the deep state
he does not seem equally to realise its gravity. A "subject," for
instance, with whom I tried this particular experiment and who was
rendered decidely grave when in the alert state, was chiefly occupied,
in the deep state, with the half-jocular invention of dodges to avoid pain.
But, where the whole mental condition is so abnormal it is hard to
regard such slight differences in the power of judgement as important
or distinctive, or to regard them as other than steps in a single process
of mental unhingeing.
The question then presents itself: Is there any distinction of kind
between the two states-any single test by which we can make sure in
which of them the "subject" is-any sort of phenomena, CJLpable of
~nstant reproduction, which will draw a clear line between them, and
Digitized by Loo
1884.] Tile Stages of Hypnotism. 67
not merely represent a gradual and continuous decline of hypnotic
waking into hypnotic sleep 7 I believe that there is such a distinction ;
and that the phenomena needed to establish it are to be found in the
domain of memory. And as memory will afford the means not only for
distinguishing the one stage of hypnotism from the other, but also
further for distinguishing the "hypnotic state" as a whole from the
normal one, I may attempt to make my rapid sketch embrace all its
various conditions, so far as I have been able to observe them.
First, then, as to the "subject's" memory, when completely
awakened from the alert state, of what has taken place during that
state. The degree of it varies with the number of times that he has
been under the hypnotic influence.
(1) A" subject" who is quite fresh to hypnotism has frequently
some remembrance, on waking, of all that he has gone through. Of such
actions as are usually exhibited on platforms-imitative movements,
'sneezing, laughing, jumping and the like-his remembrance is distinct;
and he perfectly recalls not only the actions but the feelings of plloSBive
acquiescence, or of surprise, or of repugnance, with which,he performed
them. A not uncommon description is that he felt as if he had two
selves, one of which was looking on at the involuntary performances of
the other, without thinking it worth while to interfere. He also
perfectly remembers such simple mental operations as the effort to recall
his name. Of performances which have involved more complex mental
ideas, and where his mind has been at the mercy of some concrete form
()f delusion, his remembrance is dimmer. But still he will give some
account of parts played by him in imaginary scenes, or even when under
the impression that he was some one or something other than himself.
It is probable that the delusive impression in such cases has not been
(}uite complete. For instance, a " subject" who, when awakened to his
normal state, remembered the fact of having been put to flight by a white
ghost, described himself as having in a sort of way known that it was
()nly a handkerchief which the operator was flourishing, and yet as
unable to resist the ghostly terror.
(2) After a very short course of hypnotisation, these illusory changes
of scene or of identity, and even the simple mental operation of trying
to recall some familiar fact, are found to have left no trace on waking;
gut the" subject" can still perfectly recollect the imitative and other
actions" hich he has performed in propria persona, and the sort of feel-
ings which accompanied them. It will be observed how curiously fatal
this fact is to Professor Heidenhain's theory that the actions of imita-
tion, and of what he calls automatic "obedience," which a hypnotised
person performs, are purely reflex and unconscious. For it is just of
these actions that the clearest remembrance is retained; and in fact, if
the" subject" has been made to perform a few of them after being
F 2
Digitized by Loo
68 The Stage8 01 Hypnotism. [Jan. 18
thrown into a. light trance-condition, and is then brought back to the
normal state, there has been absolutely no breach whatever in the
continuous stream of his consciousness. He has passed through a strange
experience, and that is all. .
The memory of the events of the alert hypnotic state finds its
precise parallel in certain cases of natural somnambulism-a condition
in which all actions are of course performed in propria per.O'l'I4, and
without any externally-induced illusion. Somnambulism is, as a rule.
a decidely deeper state than the lighter stage of hypnotism; and
memory, on waking, of what has occurred in it is exceptional. I haTe,
however, lately met with well-marked cases of it in two of my own
acquaintance, who gave descriptions of their somnambulic experiences
very similar to those given by hypnotio "subjeots." Though exceptional
such cases are probably not absolutely rare; and it is the more curious
that Despine, Heidenhain, and others should have so hastily and
sweepingly assumed that the funotion of true psychic memory is sus·
pended in hypnotism.
(3) In my experience no true memory has ever been exhibited, on
complete waking, of things which have been done or suffered in the deep
state. Nor am I aware of any published record of such an event.* The
performance, at the appointed time, of commands impressed on the
"subject" when in the deep state hours-or even days before, is not a.
case in point. For though he feels impelled to do what he has been
told to do, he has no recollection of the fact of having been so told,
and is at a loss to comprehend his own impulse. This is merely an
instance of the well-known phenomenon of cerebral (or as it has been
called" organio") memory; but is interesting as taking place when the
person is otherwise in a completely normal state.
So much, then, for the conditions of the memory on complete
waking; next as to its conditions in thEl hypnotio states themselves.
(1) Facts of the "subject's" general knowledge, his address, busi-
ness, recent employments, and so on, are remembered even in the deep
state, if that state is sufficiently marked and prolonged for some
amount of conversation to be sustained in it.
(2) With a favourable "subject," something that has happened
during one of the hypnotio states will often recur to the memQry on
the next occasion when that state is produced, though in the interval of
normality-amounting, it may be, to several days and nights-which has
intervened between the two occasions, it has been completely forgotten.
(The thing,however,must not be an action performed inlWOpna pef'BO'nff.,
for this-as we have seen above-would not be forgotten during the
'Dr. Wyld, howe'l"er, assures ma that he h:ls occa8ionally witneSlled the
phenomenon.
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] TIle Stages of Hvpnotism. 69
normal state; nor connected with a delusive impression, for this-as
we shall soo below-would not be remembe,·ed on the recurrence of the
abnormal state.) This recurrence may be made a 'test of the extreme
rapidity with which a "subject" will, in exceptional cases, pass from
the alert hypnotic to the normal state-his attention being first arrested
by a suitable incident, a few passes of the waking and "clearing" sort
()bliterating all knowledge of it, and then a few more of the opposite sort
bringing it back again to his mind, all within the space of a minute.
But the chief interest of this induced phenomenon of alternating
memory lies in its resemblance to what occurs in spontaneous conditions.
Even ordinarydreaming occasionally presents this feature in anembryonic
form-a dream-scene or dream-incident being often more apt to recur in
dream than in waking moments. Not that the mere recurrence could
be taken necf'.ssarily to imply memory; but experiences are recorded
in which the scene or incident, though one not associated with the
waking life, is distinctly recognised as familiar when it recurs, which of
course does imply a sort of memory. Natural somnambulism may soom
to present more distinct resemblances; and certainly, if one judged from
expressions used by thE' somnambulist, particular ideas which have made
no part of the waking life are apt to recrudesce in the sleep-waking
state. As a rule, however, it would be hard to represent this phe-
nomeno~ as involving more than a mere re-awakening into activity of
certain nervous tracts, which naturally manifest the fact of their ac-
tivity by the same external results as on previous occasions. Even in
the rarer cases, which more strongly suggest the recurrence of the past
events as such, the presence of true psychic memory is more doubtful
than in hypnotism, or at any rate is harder to substantiate; for the
very tests which might substantiate it naturally tend to wake the som-
nambulist, and so to put an end to the condition. Perhaps, therefore,
the clearest interest of the hypnotic alternations of memory is rather as
illustratingthe spontaneous alternationsincasesof"double consciousness,"
where a single individual lives in turn two (or more) separate existences.
There, as here, the transition may be almost instantaneous; and there,
as here, while the memory of the normal state is continuous (its events
being remembered even in the abnormal condition, just as we have seen
that the events of ordinary life are remembered in either of the hypnotic
states), the memory of the past events of any abnor1nal state lapses and
recurs with the disappearance and reappearance of that state.
(3) If the phenomena mentioned under the last head are somewhat
uncertain, it is otherwise when the condition intervening between two
, hypnotic states of the same kind is not normal wakefulness, but an
hypnotic state of the other kind-i.e" when a deep state intervenes
between two alert, or an alert between two deep states. I have then
found that (with certain well-marked exceptions to be mentioned here-
.
70 The Stages of H1Ipnotis~,. [Jan. 18,
after) the ideas impressed in the one sort of state are invariably
forgotten in the other, and are as invariably again remembered when.
the former state recurs. Thus the" subject," when in the alert state, is.
told something-some anecdote orpiece of ordinary information-which
we will call A. He is then thrown, or allowed to fall, into the deep
state with closed eyes, and is asked, "What were you told just now 1
He is quite unaware wh¥ is meant, nor will the broadest hints recall the
missing idea. He is now told something else, which we will call B ; and
is then re·awakened into the alert state. Being asked the same ques-
tion as before, he at once repeats not B but A, and it is impossible to
evoke in him any memory of B. Thrown again into the deep state, he in
a similar way recalls B, and A has once more vanished. Finally he is com-
pletelyawakened, informed that two things have been told within the last
five minutes, and offered £10 to say what either of them was-with a
result entirely satisfactory to the experimenter. Occasionally I have
succeeded in hitting a transitional moment at which botll things were
remembered; but it was a sort of knife-edge, and the slightest manipula-
tion or pause tending to deepen the condition brought about the
customary separation and oblivion of the thing told in the alert state.
The phenomena seem singularly constant. I have obtained them
with a large number of "subjects," and with three operators in three
. different parts of England, two of whom certainly had no idea what
result I was expecting. They represent, of course, that clear distinction
of the two hypnotic stages-as something more than mere continuous
degrees of a single tranc6-COndition-to which I have been leading up ;
and the great rapidity of the transition, together with the sharpness of
the results, seems to make them as satisfactory indications of that
distinction as could well be imagined.
(4) To the rule thus established, there are certain definite exceptions.
If the idea impressed in the alert state is a delu8'/,on, involving either
a change of Bcene or a change of identity, it is not remembered in the
usual way. A" subject" who has been made to believe himself else-
where than in the room where he actually is, or to assume the part of
another person or of an animal, and who while under this delusion has
been carried into the deep state, on returning from that state proves
almost always to be the natural self of the alert state, and refuses to
believe that any idea of any sort has been impressed upon him. In the
few cases within my experience where this has not happened, and where
the delusory part was resumed when the alert state returned, it was
noticeable that the bare idea seemed to revive first-very likely as the
memory of the remark which had preceded and produced the illusion-
and that then the illusion followed in the wake of the idea. Thus a
boy who had been enacting the part of a fish on the floor, and who had
been then thrown into the d~ep state and placed in a chair, was
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] TIle Stages of Hypnotism. 71
brought back to the alert state by gentle upward·passes. .He sat for
some seconds staring at the floor in a puzzled way, and then flung him-
self down and recommenced the fish-like movements. Waking to the
alert state by any Budden means always ensured forgetfulness, carrying
the "subject"· at once over that low degree of the alert stage where
recurrence of the delusion was possible. It may be added that though
delusive ideas are thus forgotten, yet if the same delusion be again
suggested in a general way, the cktails of the former one will be
remembered. Thus a youth who had been impressed with the ideo.
that he was a schoolboy attending Brighton College, and that his name
was "Gerald Hamilton," completely forgot this change of identity
when he returned to the alert state in which he had undergone it; but
on being then again told that he was attending Brighton College, and
asked his name, he gave it as Gerald Hamilton.
(5) The next case is stranger still, though quite as definite. If in
the alert state any physical effect is produced by suggestion-e.g., if
the" subject" is made unable to flex his arm by being told that he
. cannot do so-a further very marked effect is produced on his mental
powers and memory, although there is no special sign that his mind is
preoccupied with attending to his bodily symptoms. A boy's arm was
thus extended; he became unable to talk rationally; and being set to
read aloud, he did so in a stupid and mechanical way, and could not
recollect what he had read. He was now passed into the deep state,
during which his arm dropped; and on being recalled from this state,
was asked what he had been doing just before he went to sleep. He
replied that he was holding his arm out; but both forgot and utterly
denied the fact of the reading. Similarly the operations of opening 0.
piano and picking out a tune on it, carried out by a "subjeot" while
under an impression that he could not unclench one of his fists, were
clean forgotten after an interval of the deep state.
(6) Any sort of argument or bothering has a singular effect in
causing the" subject's " mind to drift into a deeper dream-like state.
Thus, at the close of the experiment just mentioned, the" subject" was
pressed f!>r some time as to how his arm, which he remembered to have
been stiff and extended, had dropped. While he was in a state of
puzzle and worry, a sudden clap and call brought him instantly to a
point at which the whole circumstance as to his arm was completely
forgotten; but being allowed to lapse quietly, he again recalled it. There
are thus sub-divisions of recollective power within the alert stage itself.
(7) We now come to an apparent exception of another sort. If the
thing impreSsed on the " subject's" mind in the deep state is a com-
mand, which he is to execute" on waking," he will execute it as soon
as he returns to the alert state; or, if allowed to work off his
trance in natural sleep, he will usually perform the act on
Tho Stago8 of Hypnoti8m. [Jim. 18,
normal waking; but if the act has been performed in the
alert state, he will have no recollection of it when brought
to his norlJlal state.* Such obediencl' is, however, no true
exception to the rule that psychic memory of ideas does not extend
from one state tQ another, any more than in the case above noticed
where a "subject" obeys a command fixed for some distant hour: he
feels an impulse but does not remember its source. A singular point in
connection with this obedience is that it seems apt to fail in cases
where a vivid and interesting idea is suggested at the same time as the
command. Thus several "subjects" who were told in the deep state
that a fire had broken out at home, and that they must go and help to
put it out, on being recalled to the alert state sat without moving, and
denied any impulse to do anything. The idea probably produced a
strong mental picture, which, in disappearing with the change of state
according to the rule above given, involved the further disappearance
of the sense of obligation.
(8) Obedience also fails in the following case. If a command has
been imposed in the deep state, and the .. subject" is woke into the .
alert, but then, before he has time to perform i~ is put under a
delusion-this will suspend the performance of the act. Thus, a youth
who had been told that he was to put on his hat and begin reading the
newspaper, and had then been roused, was on the point of carrying out
the command, when he was suddenly told he was a chicken. He
instantly went down on the floor and began to cluck. He was then
allowed to lapse into the deep state, and again brought out of it: he
now at once performed the order. In this particular instance the order
was not remembered in the second deep state, though carried out on
emergence from it; the delusion had altogether obliterated it, as far
as psychic memory was concerned. But this feature seems unsym-
metrical, and was found not to be constant-the delusion as a rule having
no eff~ct beyond the particular sort of state in which it is induced.
Such in briefest outline is a sketch of the conditions of memory
connected with hypnotism, so far as my own observation has gone.
Brief as it is, it may perhaps suggest matter of reflection as to theories
which assume hypnotism to be a state of mere unconscious automatism,
on the ground that'no true memory ever exists of what happens in it.
[All the experiments here mentioned were carried out as part of the
work of the Mesmeric Committee of the S.P.R.]
* After what has been said above, it wi1l be readily nnderstood that perform-
ance in the alert state of commands given in the deep, and remembrance of
impreBBionB from one alertstate to another with a deep state between, are liable
to be represented as performance or remembrance Of& fMking-i.e., on complete
waking into the normal state-owing to the ease with which the alert state may
be confonnded with the normal.
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] Report on Wells Sunk at Lockiltg. 73
VII.
REPORT ON WELLS SUNK AT LOOKING, SOMERSET, TO
TEST THE ALLEGED POWER OF THE DIVINING ROD.
By W. J. SOLUS, M.A., D.So., Fellow of st. John's Oollege, Oambridge,
Professor of Geology in the Universi~y of Dublin.
In response to an invitation I made one of a party of investigators,
who on the 14th of May, 1883, proceooed to the little village of
Locking, to conduct an inquiry into the alleged phenomena of
II dowsing," ''rhabdomancy,'' or divining forwo.ter. Our party consisted
of Dr. Burder, the esteemed President of the Bristol Naturalist's
Society, a lady who was believed to possess the power of divining,
Mr. Pope, Mr. Pease, and others. I accompanied them as a pro-
fessional geologist to determine the geological conditions under which
the experiments were to be made.
At Locking we were introduced to the II dowser," Mr. Thomas
Young, an aged and experienced man, who for 50 years had been
engaged in finding underground water, and with admitted success. He
showed us the whole modus operandi of his art; and we were told to
particularlynotice that, at the critical moment, the dowsing rod turned
of itself, without any pressure being exerted by the fingers of the
dowser; on this point, however, it was the general opinion that the
dowser was mistaken. Dr. Burder and myself are positive that every
time the rod turned we plainly discovered a corresponding movement
in the fingers of the dowser. Not only Mr. Young, but Mr. Lawrence,
a dowser of great local reputation, lay great stress on the fact, as they
assert, that the movements of the rod are not governed by the move-
ments of the fingers, and also that it turns independently 01 their
. volition, in fact, even in spite of their willing to the contrary. As to
their volition of course I am unable to speak, but I am confident from
what I observed, that the sole immediate cause for the turning of the
rod is to be found in the muscular contraction of the hand of the
operator.
We found Mr. Young very frank and communicative; one of his
statements was to the effect that when the dowser walks backwards
over the water he is in search of the rod turns downwards, while on
walking forwards, it always turns upwards! A psychical fact so extra-
ordinary that it seems worth while to put it on record. Mr. Young
showed a close acquaintance with the ways and habits of underground
Digitized by Coogle
74 Repm·t on We1l8 Sunk at Locking. [Jan. 18,
water. He told us that in the district about Locking it always flowed
from east to west; moreover he actually showed us the natural spring
from which the underground water issued which he had previously sunk
upon at a point nearer its source, to obtain a supply for an adjacent
farmhouse. With so much real knowledge the use of the "rod" seemed
superfluous, so I ventured to inquire whether he would regard it as 1
morally wrong to make use of his evidently practical knowledge to
assist him in the discovery of springs. He replied, certainly not. ,
but that " he would be nowhere without his rod."
We were now to put the dowser's skill to a practical test. A
field on the alluvial plain, which extends from Locking to the
Bristol Channel, was selected for the experiment, and on this the
" dowser"· was to indicate two spots, one beneath which water should
be found, and another where it should not. Through these spots shafts
were then to be sunk, and the prediction verified or not. In order to
simplify the conditions of the experiment, Mr. Pease requested the
dowser to operate blindfolded, but to this he absolutely refused to
consent. This was very unfortunate, as the trial became one rather of
the skill of the dowser than of the truth of dowsing: and I noticed
during the trial that the dowser made very good use of his eyes. Look- 1
ing about, he walked direct to one side of the field, without using -
.his rod i-not wandering as one might have expected, rod in hand,
hither and thither, in blind search for an indication. Arrived at the
place he had chosen he used the rod over a line of march some 20 or
30 paces long, and as he did so the rod plunged vertically upwards at
a spot where he then asserted water would be found. He repeated the
traverse further down the field, in the same manner and with the same
result. This he did again and again, and so produced the impression
that a stream of water was flowing towards the sea beneath our feet,
and along a line indicated by the successive points which he indicated
by the rod. We therefore asked him to dowse along the length of the
stream instead of finding points over it by traverses, and this he very
willingly did, walking in an undulating manner over what he gave us to
understand was the course of the stream. Finally, we requested him
to make a fresh traverse and to indicate the spots whereJligging was to
be commenced. He did so, and at our sUllgestion selected a place
about 20 paces to the north of a ditch or "rhyne" which flows
through the flat, as that where water would be found, and another 15ft.
north of this, where he stated it would not.
We determined the position of these places in a way that left no
possibility of changing them, and made arrangements for pits to be
sunk by the dowser and his assistants. The supervision of the work as
it proceeded was deputed to me.
Before proceeding further with an account of the experiment we
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] Report on Wells Sunk at Locking. 76
may consider the nature of the case we are about to try. It is the
prediction of a practical man, skilled by experience, opposed to that.
drawn from the generalisations of science.
The dowser predicts that in one of the pits now to be sunk we
shall find water, let us call that the + well; in the other we shall not,
we will call that the - welL As a geologist I predict that we shall
find water in both or neither. The dowser does not give reasons for
his prediction; for mine they are the following.
The field we have selected for the experimonts is part 9f the great.
alluvial flat which borders the eastern side of the Severn and Bristol
ChanneL Sinkings have frequently been made in various places
through this flat, and I can therefore state beforehand that sand will
certainly be met with in both wells, and will certainly furnish some
water to both. Gravel may possibly be reached, and if in one, probably
in both wells, and then both will yield water freely.
I now proceed to give an account of the observations made on tho
wells. as I visited them from time to time during their sinking.
May 22nd. Verified the positions of the wells. The + well had
been sunk lOft., and contained 6ft. of water; the - well had been
sunk 5ft. and contained 1ft. of water.
June 1st. The + well was now 16ft. deep, and contained a good deal
of water, eight or nine feet; water was still trickling in from the sides.
As work had been suspended in this well, water had had time to
accumulate. The - well was 20ft. deep, and contained Hft. of
water. Water was trickling into it, but not so fast as into the other.
The well-sinkers said that this Hft. was merely surface water. A bed
of peat 14ft. from the surface had been struck in both wells.
June 15th. Visited the wells. but found that the work of sinking
was suspended. The + well indeed had been abandonded owing to the
caving in of the sides. The - well had been timbered down to 20ft.~
it was 22ft. deep, and water was slowly dripping into it.
June 18th. Received a letter from Mr. Hellier, the bailiff of the
estate, stating that the real depth of the + well was 17ft. 6in., and
the depth of water in it 9ft. The - well 20ft. with 4ft. 6in. (if
water (these numbers are for Friday, June 15th). .
June 24th. Commissioned my friend and pupil, Mr. F. P. Evans,
to visit Locking. He reported that the water stood in both wells at.
precisely the -same height, viz., 5ft. 4in. below the level of the field.
So that the + well contained 12ft. 2in. of water; the - well 14ft.
8in. of water.
The reports from the 16th June to the 24th require some comment.
On Thursday, the 14th, the men were sinking, consequently on that
day the - well was dry; on the 15th, Friday, work having ceased for
24 hours, it contained 4ft. Gin. of water; on Saturday, the 24th (and
Digitized by Coogle
76 Report M Wells Sunk at Locking.
may be several days earlier), it contained 14ft. 8in. Thus the well
which should not have furnished any water could not by any perversion
of language be called "dry."
June 28th. Mr. Hellier writes, saying that the men have sunk
through the clay and found black sand, in which they have sunk 8ft.
On making a subsequent visit'1 found that this black sand, was a
fine arenaceous clay.
July 9th. Paid an unexpected visit to Locking; 1 was expected
the previous Saturday; work had been suspended, but one of
the sinkers, 9'eorge Gale, was still there. He told me that they had
been sinkingon Saturday, the 7th, and had "kept the water down, for
me to see everything!" On the 8th, Sunday, water, so he said, had
accumulated to the extent of about 4ft.; on Monday afternoon,
when 1 took measurements myself, there were 12ft. of water in
it. So that 12ft. had accumulated in 48 hours. 1 made a thorough
examination of the shaft, descending as far as the water, and examining
,the nature of the sides. The deposits passed through were as
follows :-
Blue Silt
Peat
Blue Silt, becoming sandy lower down.••
Red Clay •.•
1 Trias
14ft.
1ft., or In. 6in.
8ft.
,5ft. or 6ft.
The sinker told me they had sunk to 29ft., in which case the
red clay would have been penetratied to the depth of 6ft. If this
red clay is Trias, then Trias must be beneath both wells, and the bottom
rock being the same in each, the dowser must have calculated on the
presence of gravel in the + well, and its absence in the - well, if he
made his prediction on scientific grounds.
Water was streaming from the sandy sides of the - well just as 1
had seen it issuing from the sides of the + well on June 1st.
August. Mr. Metcalfe visited the wel!s for me and found the water
standing at the same level in each.
This record of observations seems to me to completely
verify the prediction made on the scientific side that tho
behaviour of the two pits with regard to furnishing water would
in all probability be the same for each. The dowser attributed the
water in the-well to an outflow from the +, but this is of course
an excuse made after the trial had ~n completed, under conditions
to which he had himself assented; and an excuse which is without any
rational basis. For if the rock between the - and + wells is so
porous that water can stream through it from one to the other (and the
increase implies this) then the rock between the two, and necessarily
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] Report on Wells Sunk at Lockillg. 77
surrounding the two, will be water-bearing, and would furnish water tG
both, and thus would have supplied the - well if the + one had not
existed.
The tenant who farms the estate said he had Been the water flowing
from the + to - weIll The dowser and his assistants confined them-
selves to asserting that it went into the - well from the side nearest
the + well, as indeed, from my own independent examination, I can
confirm it did ; at the SIl.Dle time it trickled in from the other sides,
that farthest off included, quite as freely.
To me, therefore, it appears that the case of the dowser has
conspicuously failed, and I attribute it to the fact that the dowser's
experience has throughout been gained and employed in the finding
of water, not in ~eeking for dry places, As to his ability to discover
underground water, these experimentssimply confirm general testimony
which is unanimously in favour of his powers. That these powers are
totally independent of the use of the rod is, I think, proved by the
following considerations. For the sake of argument, let ns assume thst
the dowser is physically affected by the presence of water beneath his
feet. The action between him and the water will take place in &
straight line, drawn from him to it. On the analogy afforded by
physical forces, the force of the action will vary directly as the mass of
the acting bodies and inversely as the square of the distance. Let a
be the + spot marked by the dowser, and b the - spot, distant
from each other 15ft. Let c be the position of a stream of water,
20ft. vertically below a
a
"
----------------
c
Join c, b.
• • m m m m
Then the actlOn at a will be a c~ = 400, and at b b(j2 =576:
So that if the action at a be represented by 1, at b it will be I-H,
or about j.
Now, if a force of 1 causes the rod violently to assume the upright
Digitized by Coogle
78 Report on Wells Sunk at Locking. [Jan. 18,
position, surely one of i should have some appreciable effect, whereas
the rod shows no sign of agitation, remaining quite unconcerned, till a
is reached.
Again, we have stated the case here far too favourably for the
dowser, for the underground water is not all concentrated at c; it is
diffused throughout the alluvium, the underlying deposits are all moist,
and the diffused water will act upon the dowser as well as that concen-
trated in one place. The action at a, therefore, is :-
1 + influence of the diffused water = X, and at b: § +
influence of the diffused water = Y, and the difference between
X and Y is much less than 1.
Moreover, on many occasions, the underground spring exists at a
much greater depth than 20ft., and yet affects the dowser when he
stands vertically over it. Its influence in thelia cases must be often
less than the !- in our experiment, yet it makes itself decidedly felt.
The dowser is naturally possessed of much mother wit, and he has
a large experience of the behaviour of underground water; but his
wonderful rod has no more magical power than the gold-headed cane of
the medical practitioner of the last century.
NOTE BY 'EDWARD R. PEASE.
Whilst agreeing on other grounds with most of the conclusions
which Professor Sollas sets forth in his very able report, I canno; feel
his complete c,?nfidence in)he conclusive nature of this particularexperi-
ment. In September I '-ent again to Locking, and had both the wells
emptied of water. The + well I found now to be a mere hole Bome 10ft.
deep, whilst the - well was a carefully-timbered shaft 24ft. in depth. I
made minute observations of the rate at which both wells filled with
water, but during the course of them the sides of the + well caved
in and filled it to the depth of 2ft. This almost destroyed the value
of the measurements, and I was not able to repeat them. But in so far
as they have any value, they seem to show that the + well filled more
rapidly than the - well, although its depth was so much less. The
tenant of the farm told me that the water in the + well was of better
quality than thatin the - well. '
Digitized by Loo
1884.] Report on We1l8 Sunk at Locking. 79
VIII.
THE DIVINING ROD.*
By EDWARD R. PEASE.
The Art of Divining has long been considered by men of science
and by the general public as one of the Black Arts, which alone has
liIurvived in remote villages and amongst uneducated mining popula-
tions. Unlike the others, it is considered a harmless superstition that
preys only upon men's pockets, and does not imperil their liberty or
their lives. Therefore the strong arm of the law has neglected to ex-
tirpate it, and we are able to examine the only living example of a class
of superstitions that flourished many centuries ago.
This is the commonly-held view of the matter. But a little investi-
gation discloses the fact that belief in the power of the divining rod is
by no means confined to remote villages and to ignorant persons. The
evidence of its value is strong, and it comes from unexpected quarters_
The Divining or "Dowsing" Rod is a V shaped twig, commonly of
hazel, from 1 to 3ft. in length, and from a quarter to half an inch in
diameter. It is firmly grasped by the two ends, one in each hand, and
the .. dowser" walks carefully over the ground to be tried, holding the
rod before him. When he comes upon a spring of water the rod moves
as if of its own accord.
In England the rod is used for seeking for water chiefly in the
south-western counties. It is employed also in the United States, and
on the Riviera. In Oornwall and Oalifornia it is used to discover
veins of metallic ore, and in Pennsylvania to find mineral oil.
A rod is the most natural symbol of authority, and hence at all
times and places, those who lay claim to occult powers are found to use
some sort of magic wand. ,
But the divining rod which we are now considering, is a forked rod,
and the fork is its essential feature. We must, therefore, disregard all
• LIST OF WORKS CONSULTED.
"Jacob's Rod." Thomas Welton, London. 1870. (1)
----" CllriOUS Myths of the Middle Ages." Baring Gould. 1872.
"Myths and Mythmakers." Professor Fiske. BO&ton, 1873.
"Proceedings Bristol Naturalists' Sooiety." Paper by MeslIl8. Tawney and Pass,
1874.
-" The Divining Rod." Charles Latimer, Cleveland, U.S. 1876.
"Psychological Review." Paper by Mrs. de Morgan. September, 1879•
.. Cornhill Magazine." January, 1883.
","" Nature." Paper by E. B. Tylor, May 17th, 1883•
...... "The Divining Rod." By Rossiter W. Raymond, Ph.D. Read.at Boston Meeting
of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, February, 1883.
Digitized by Loo
80 The Divining Rod. [Jan. 18,
evidence of the use of A simple rod, whether by ancient peoples or by
savages, and confine our attention to the comparatively modern custom
of using a forked divining rod. A work on the art and science of
water-finding, published in Orleans in 1569, contains no allusion to it.
although in some places it must have been known at that date.
Melancthon, who died in 1560, is one of the earliest writers on the
divining rod, and he explains its power by the then common theory of
affinities. Agricola, the great German mineralogist of the first half of
the 16th century, also wrote on it at considerable length, and was by
no means a believer in its efficacy.
From this time till the end of the 17th century, the rod was
commonly employed for many purposes throughout the West of
Europe, and the writings of philosophers and enthusiasts are numer-
ous and bulky. Mr. Raymond, of New York, in his pamphlet, to
which I shall refer more particularly hereafter, enumerates some 46
works, by nearly as many different writers, all published in the century
and a-half preceding the year 1701.
During this period, especially towards the end of it, the foremost
philosophers of the age, princes and noblemen, and Church dignitaries,
debated, and experimented, and quarrelled over the existence or non-
existence of this mysterious power, over the various explanations
propounded to account for it, over the honesty or trickeries of celebrated
diviners.
The Baron and Baroness Beausoleil were amongst the earliest
devotees to its cause. The Baron was "undoubtedly, one of the fore-
most mine-engineers of his time." He was made comptroller-general
of the mines of France, Hungary, the Papal States, and other countries,
and he travelled allover Europe studying the subject, whilst the
Baroness published books on the use of the rod. They obtained wealth
as well as fame, but were accused of sorcery by their enemies, were
imprisoned by Richelieu, and died in poverty about the year 1645.
Amongst other writers of the period Mr. Raymond mentions
Robert Boyle, who in 1666 brought the subject bp.fore the Royal
Society.
In 1692 comes the celebrated case of the murderers tracked
and discovered by Jacques Aymar. The story is so well known that it
is not necessary to dwell upon it here. It may be found in the
Corn/till .ilfagazine for January, 1883, and is fully discussed by Mr.
Raymond in his pamphlet. Aymar attained great fame by his success,
but he conspicuously failed when tested by Prince Conde; and was
obliged to retire into private life.
In 1701 the use of the divining rod was condemned by the Inquisi-
tion, and for some time we hear but little about it. In 1780 a Dr.
Thouvenel experimented with a diviner of Dauphiny, named Blaton,
Digitized by Loo
1884.J 'The Divz'ning Rod. 81
and published a memoir in its favour, which created much sensation.
Bleton was tested by other scientific men, but without success. The
experiment of blindfolding him was repeatedly tried, and the indications
of his rod were, under this condition, proved to be fallacious. Penet,
who lived at the beginning of this century, was another celebrated
diviner, who professed to discover coal and hidden metals. A commis-
sion of savans tested him for three days at Padua, but failed to obtain
good evidence of his alleged powers, and afterwards he was detected
whilst examining at night the enclosure where an experiment was to be
made.
It would seem, therefore, that the claims of diviners were carefully
investigated by competent men of science at intervals during the 17th
and 18th centuries, and that they uniformly failed to elicit satisfactory
results. The domain of science was then mapped out far more imper-
fectly than it is at present, and therefore alleged facts of an
extraordinary nature were examined with an absence of prejudice
which it is impossible now to obtain. We must therefore in my
opinion, attach considerable weight to the negative results of these
investigations.
During the last few years the art of divining has attracted fresh
attention, and a number of articles and letters about it have appeared in
various newspapers and periodicals.
A member of the Society for Psychical Research, Mr. E.
Vaughan Jenkins, of Oheltenham, has made a most valuable collection
of contemporary evidence, which is an unique and most important con-
tribution to the literature of the subject, and which, with great
generosity, he has placed at the disposal of the Society.
He has communicated with various profesl:lional diviners, and has
obtained reports of their operations from landowners, architects,
builders, and other persons, who are entitled to speak with authority.
Ooncerning one of the best known of the professional diviners, John
Mullins, of Oollerne, Wilts, he has obtained twenty-two records of the
successful location of wells, nearly all from persons of standing, chiefly
owners of property in Gloucestershire and Lincolnshire. Twelve records
refer to Mr. W. S. Lawrence, of Bristol, of whom J shall have occasion
to speak later on ; seven cases are recorded in which Stokes, 0. carpenter
of Newbury, Berkshire, was the diviner; and seven others refer to Pavey
of Oheddar, and one or two other persons. All these, it must be
recollected, have been written and sent to Mr. Jenkins within the last
18 months, all are from persons actually cognizant of th,e facts, and
generally present at the dh-ining operation, and many of them are very
careful and detailed statements of what took place. It must be
remembered too that these were all collected by one gentleman, in the
course of a few months, and are probably but samples' of a vast mass of
G
82 The J)imlling Bod. [Jan. 18,
testimony which a more prolonged and wider search would reveal.
Several of them also refer to more than one, case of successful dowsing.
In an appendix to tbis paper a complete list of these cases is given,
and a fe", of them are printed in full.
Notwithstanding the general consensus of scientific opinion against
dowsing up to this time, there seems to be a prima facie case for the
necessity of further examination of the subject from the evidence
collected by Mr. Vaughan Jenkins.
This evidence tends to show.
1. That the power of certain persons to find water when experts
fail is widely believed in to this day, and is utilised by practical men to
whom the finding of water is a business matter. This will be seen by
a glance at the cases given in the Appendix. Many of these persons
doubt the dowser;s power to begin with, but are convinced of it by his
success.
2. That this power does not depend on superior knowledge of the
locality. See, especially, C8lW 5, where Captain Smith says that
"Mullins had not been in our neighbourhood before"; case 2, where
Mr. Finch Hatton says, " We established on good authority that Mullins
had no previous acquaintance with Haverholme"; case 4, where an
old well was to be re-opened "but no. one on the estate knew
where it was, not having been opened for a number of years.
But Stokes, with his divining rod, discovered the well (although a
perfect stranger to the place), and it proved to be where he predicted,
under the paving in the centre of the pathway." See also cases 1, 26,
29,31, and 46.
3. That the power does not depend on geological or quasi-geological
knowledge or instinct. See especially case 13, where Sir W. E. Welby-
Gregory says, "To save time I tookhim (Mullins) to a spot from which
he could see the contour of the hills (about a mile distant) from which
most of our water comes, showed him what springs we knew of, and
told him to choose for himself the best part to try for more. He un-
hesitatingly selected the upper part of a certain hill (which was after-
wards pronounced by an eminent civil engineer to be unquestionably
the most likely spot within sight to contain water), and thither we
went. He tried the whole hillside over without finding a drop." Also
in the same case 13, "The civil engin~r before referred to assured me
that from his knowledge of the geological formation of the country, he
could say confidently that there was no chance of finding a water supply
under my new house at a depth of less than 120 or 130 feet; and his
opinion was confirmed by another geological authority who was then in
the neighbourhood." Mullins had previously, on the site of the new
house, "indicated two lines, about 30 yards apart, along which he said
water was flowing. This was all he could find there." Ultimately Sir
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] The Divining Rod. 83
W. E. Welby-Gregory "determined to disregard the geologist and have
a well sunk on one of these lines," where waterwas found in due course.
4. That the power is not only shown in finding spots where water
is, which might be explained by supposing that there was water every-
where in that region at that depth-but spots where it is not. See
again case 18 where, as previously mentioned, a well was sunk to a
-depth of 25ft. on one of Mullins' lines. Subsequently a shaft for a
lift was sunk "between the two lines . • • • some 12 yards or
15 yards from either, and to a depth considerably greater (10ft. or
12ft.) than the well. As no water came into this, though the forma-
tion was precisely similar, and the well has not been affected by it, I
am satisfied," Sir W. E. Welby-Gregory continues, "that, had I not
employed Mullins, I might have sunk wells in any number to no pur-
pose." See also case 81 where a well is sunk so that its side is
below the point indicated and water comes in from that side. And case
41 where Mr. Adey says, "Stokes • • • t told my foreman that
it was of no use going on with that well . • • • and told them
where the spring was, and that it was near the surface. . I
told him not to pay attention to such rubbish, and to continue sinking
the well. • • • • .At the depth of 40ft. there was not the slightest
appearance of coming to water.' My men then threw out a hole
where Stokes indicated, about 80ft. or 85ft. from the well, and at a
depth of only 5ft. from the surface came upon a spring."
5. That dowsers believe themselves to possess BOme sort of occult
power, although they can offer no explanation of it. It would appear,
moreover, that they'rarely make mistakes in locating wells. Butsome
allowance must be made for the fact that most of our evidence has
reached us from correspondents obtained through the diviners them-
selves. See, however,' cases Nos. 8,5,7,88,89,40, and 41.
We have next to consider the experiments recently made with
diviners by myself and other members of the Society.
Mr. W. S. Lawrence, of Elton House, Bishopston, Bristol, a retired
stone merchant, was known by my father for many years as a Poor
Law: Guardian, and on December 26th, 1882, he came over to try some
experiments with me in my father's grounds. He is an elderly man, 'of
much intelligence, and· is widely known for his power of dowsing, which
he still occasionally practises. He uses a piece of watch·spring, about
a foot long, in preference to the hazel-rod.
He first walked about the garden and fields and located numerous
springs. We then' blindfolded him and took him over the same ground,
but the springs were' so plentiful that it was not easy to ascertain
whether he found them again. Once or twice, however, we clearly ob-
served that the rod did not move with the'dowser blindfold in spots-
where, just previously, he had located springs.
G 2
Digitized by Coogle
84 [Jan. 18,
We next tested him with metal, hidden under plates. Mr. Law-
rence had not tried this for some years, and was doubtful of success.
But at the first attempt, he found, amongst seven plates, the two under
which metal objects were placed. On this occasion some of the
numerous spectators knew which were the .right plates. In a second
attempt, when none of those present knew which were the right plates,
he succeeded in finding one object, but was at fault in regard to the
other. In a third at~ell\pt he wholly failed.
A lady present was-thought to possess some power, and a metal
object was hidden for her under one amongst eight plates. The rod
moved over two plates, and both being taken up, metal objects were
found under both of them, the second having been added by one of those
present, unknown to the dowser and all others. This circumsta.n~ ap-.
peared to be very remarkable, but as the lady in question has totally
failed in her later experiments, this SUCceBB must be regarded as
accidental, or poBBibly it.may be explained by Thought-transference.
The result o~ ti!-~ e~periments as a whole was, therefore, by no
means ~l!cl~sive, as the existence of the supposed springs was not tested
by sinking wells, either on this occasion or after the experiments about
to be recorded.
In March, 1883, I received from Mr. Jenkins an introduction to
Mrs. B., of Clifton, a lady who is known to be an amateur dowser.
Mr. Podmore and I called upon her, and we then learned that
several years ago she found out that she possessed the powerof divining
for water, in connection with the well-known case of discovery of water
by Mr. Lawrence, at Lawrence Weaton. She also uses a steel watch-
spring.
The following report was drawn up by us at the time :-At our
request Mrs. B. tried to discover money hidden under plates,by meansof
.her steel spring. She stated that she had not attempted this before, and
that she Ie did 'fW.t belitrDe in it." In the first trial coins under two
plates out of five were correctly discovered. In this case all present
but Mra B. knew which were the right plates. In two subsequent
attempts in another room, when no one present knew the right plates,
she failed partially in one case and completely in the other.
We drove to Cote Bank, and in the first place tried over the same
ground (a gravel path) that Mr. Lawrence had trie'd in experiments
previously recorded. Mrs. B. located a spring on a spot which Lawrenc~
passed over, and several yards further on Mrs. B. passed over a spot
where Mr. L thought he detected a very strong spring. A dozen yards
farther on Mrs. B. found a spring in about the same position as a
continuation of the last-mentioned spring was located by Mr. L 'Ve
told Mrs. B. of the strong spring'detected by Mr. L. and passed by her,
aud on her return she confirmed Mr. L's discovery, though locating the
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] TIle Divinillg Rod. 85
spring a yard or two away. We then blindfolded Mrs. B. and led her
over the same ground, when the results were decidedly different, the
steel watch-spring moving in several cases where previously it had been
still, and vice fl6rsd. But, owing to the limited space and peculiar
varieties of level, the result was not satisfactory in either way.
We then asked Mrs. B. to teat carefully a long level gravel walk,
and we marked several springs which she detected upon it. She went
over the ground a second time, and did not very certainly confirm
previous discoveries. We then blindfolded her, and led her over the
same ground. The watch-spring now moved in four or five spots, only
one of which approximately coincided with a previously marked spring.
Mrs. B. stated that the springs were very slight, the rod movements
vague and unsatisfactory.
Wa next tried over a place where we told Mrs. B. that an under-
ground current of water existed. This she asserted to How about a yard
from the spot where both the appearance of the land and other circum-
stances led us to believe the drain actually was. She maintained hel'
opinion after several trials with closed eyes. She traced the drain
(which carries the purest spring water) for 100 yards, but the con-
formation of the ground left little choice of directions.
Wethan tried coins under plates. We selected a spot in the drawing-
room clear of springs, and placed four plateson a wooden table, which we
moved round whilst Mrs. B. sat in a chair. One of the party only hid
the metal (a lar~e heap of silver,and a brass lib. letter weight), and then
left the room. The conditions were therefore carefully arranged. Mrs.
B. selected two out of four plates, because the watch-spring moved
freely over them, whilst it remained still over the others. These plates
over which the rod moved were the two covering notl'ing. The
other two covered the metals.
Mrs. B. then dowsed over the house, and detected correctly a very
strong spring in a passage, which we told her led over a well. We
went into the cellar, and here, over the same spring, close to the pump,
the rod did not move the first time she passed over it. She
detected springs in several places where Lawrence had not, and Vic6
'D6rSa.
This concluded our experiments with Mrs. B. .
The next experiment was on a larger scale.
About this time Mr. Pope, of Olifton,: had a well successfully
located for him at a farm near Locking, in Somerset, by a do'Wser
named Thomas Young. He sent us a report of the case and of some
experiments made with the rod, and offered us permission to dig a trial
well at the same place. Some members of the Society generously
provided funds, and in May a party of us went down, including
~rofessor W. J. Sollas, then of Bristol, now Professor of Ge()logy at
Digitized by Coogle
86 The Divining Rod. [Jan. 18,
the University of Dublin.' He'llas presented us with the report which
precedes this paper.
I must now proceed to the second part of .the inquiry, by examin-
inS more particularly the methods and claims of diviners., My object is,
to ascertain on what points the theory andpractice of the majority of
diviners is agreed,andwhetberanyphysicalorpsychical causeorcauses can
be suggested which might furnish an explanation of the phenomenon.
As previously stated,the orthodox rod is a hazel twig shaped like a V,
and from 1 to 3ft. in length. But many other materials are used; a piece
of steel watch-spring is employed in Somersetshire ; and in other places
a whale-bone instrument with a terminalchamber full of mercury,or full
of a mysterious unknown compound; or ordinary forked rods made of
any sort of wood, green or dry, of iron or brass wire, or, as one
authority says, "of any other supple and solid matters." Occasionally
the genuine dowsing-rod seems to be unforked, and we hear of cases
in which no rod at all is used. When a piece of watch-spring is used.
it is held bent into a bow, which acts in the same manner as a forked
twig. The rod is grasped by both hands, in various ways, which how-
ever have' this in common, that the dowser holds it in a position of
extreme tension, and at the same time of unstable equilibrium. Conse-
quently a very slight variation in the pressure produces forcible and
even violent motion, apparently quite unconnected with any action of
the dowser. The dowser, thus holding his rod, walks slowly across the
ground to be ,tried, and when he comes over the spring of water, or vein
of metal, the rod begins to move. How it moves seems to depend upon
the Jocality and the practice of the dowser. Sometimes it is' held
horizontally, and jerks violently up, as if repelled by the water spring;
sometimes the water appears to attract the rod, and it moves down-
wards; sometimes it moves in a complete circle, approaching and then
receding from the water.
The powers of the rod are a question in much dispute. It has been
used to discover many things, viz. :-
Water in general (as in buried tubs): spring water, as opposed to
surface water, when both are in buckets: water springs [even beneath the
sea]: running water, as distinguished from all other water. Any
metals, metallic ores, or compounds, and pure metals as opposed to
alloys: coal, mineral oil, ochre, gypsum, red chalk, sulphur, &e.:
lost boundaries of estates: Protestants; murderers, thieves, and other
lesser criminals: and in fact, to quote the author of "Jacob's Rod," it
can discover "many hidden things about which one is often much
troubled, but few persona know the way to find them."
The populartheory is that there is some unknown force actingdirectly
between the hidden thing and the rod. Such a notion need not,
however, be seriously discuBSed here. It is impossible to imagine any
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] The Divining Rod. 87
direct interaction between rods (which may be composed of wood,
metal, or whalebone), and hidden things, which may be water, metals,
metallic compounds, mineral oils, &c.
Moreover, this alleged occult force in some places attracts the rod
to the object sought, whilst in other localities it would seem to have a
repulsive effect, and again, in other cases, it produces a rotatory
movement. This variation occurs even in the same locality, and with
one diviner. It seems obviously highly improbable that any specific
force can exert such varied movements.
The next theory to,be examined is that the_ rod is moved by the
diviner's muscles, and is merely an index of the effect of some subtle
force which emanates from the water or metal, and acts on the diviner
himself.
It is a moot point whether the diviner feels any sensations when
the rod is working. Most witnesses assert that they have none what-
ever, whilst Mullins, and one or two others, state that they experience
a thrill, or vague sensation, when they come upon the water.
Diviners always tell us that they are certain they are not moving
the rod, and even that they attempt to restrain its action. No doubt,
they are perfectly honest. But anyone who has had the smallest
experience in psychical research is aware that such statements have no
value whatever. We know by experience what care and study are
required to discover whether our own hands are conspiring to deceive
our intellects. We are not, therefore, surprised to find that honest
dowsers. are easily deceived by the unconscious actions of their own
muscles.
It is commonly asserted that the rod cannot be made to turn,
except in the hands of a diviner. This is simply a mistake. Anybody
can work a divining rod, and can produce all the usual motions by
means of muscular contractions, so slight as to be scarcely apparent to
a careless observer.
Moreover, how can believers in the occult rod-moving force explain
the curious experiment previously recorded, in which the steel spring
moved strongly when held over two plates covering nothing, and was
motionless over two others covering masses of metal1 In this case it
seems clear that the rod movements must have been caused by the
unconscious volition of the diviner; and in this case above all others, the
honesty of the diviner is beyond dispute.
The theory that a peculiar physical constitution is an important
factor in the diviner's art receives much support from the fact that only
a few persons are able successfully to use the rod. Mr. Baring Gould,
however, tells us that on one occasion he saw watching the diviner a
Digitized by Coogle
88 The Divining Rod. [Jan. 18,
crowd of villagers who each in turn tried the rod over the hidden spring;
no one of them could restrain its movements, and they were somewhat
surprised that Mr. Gould, 'when his turn came, succeeded in keeping it
motionless. This would seem to be an exceptional case, and we shall now
proceed to examine the phenomenon in its simplest form. We find that
spring water and metals are alleged to have a certain obscure effect on
certain exceptional persons, and that this physical disturbance of their
tissues causes slight muscular contractions, resulting in movements of a
rod held in their hands.
As regards pure metals the e\"idence is entirely experimental.
Somebody hides a heap of coins, and the dowser proceeds to diacover
them as a proof of his power.
Unconscious indications given by the spectators would afford a
simple explanation of this class ofphenomenon; and in cases where these
indications are excluded, the diviner may be assisted by the newly
discovered faculty of Thought-transference. In harmony with this
suggestion, :we found in our o~n experiments that when those present
knew the chosen plate, the diviner was often successful, whilst, when
no one present knew it, the diviner generally failed. Messrs. Pass
and Tawney tried experiments of this sort in Somersetshire, an
account of which they read to the Bristol Naturalists' Society in
1874. In five trials, in each case amongst seven or eight objects,
the diviner was successful three times in all. Messrs. Pass and
Tawney attempt to explain away this decidedly remarkable result;
but their success in so doing seems to me by no means so remarkable.
In a similar manner we may explain how it is that Mr. Stokes,
of Newbury, can detect between two buckets of water, which of them
is surface and which spring water, although older diviners assert that
when the rod moves they" do not know if it is a spring or stagnant
water." ("Jacob's Rod," p. 24.)
Next turning to metallic ores, I have been unable to obtain evidence
beyond the general statement that the rod is commonly used in Cornwall
for mining purposes. Mr. Raymond, in his paper, gives many instances
of its complete failure in America, and of money lost by mining com-
panies through their belief in its efficacy.
Finally we come to the use of the rod for the discovery of water
springs. The evidence for this, as shown in the accompanying abstract,
is exceedingly abundant and strong. ThE're are plenty of diviners of
good repute now living who without doubt use the rod, and find water.
But the value of this evidence wholly depends on the abundance of
water springs below the surface of the earth. If water is commonly to
be found wherever one digs, but little of the evidence before us is of
much value. This question can only be answered decisively by sinking
a number of experimental wells such as those at Locking. This, how-
Digitized by Coogle
1884.J The Divining Rod. 89;
ever, is a very costly operation, and I fear the experiment is not very
likely to be made.
Mr. Raymond's sum.mary of the evidence is as follows: After
stating that the application of the rod to the discovery of metals, coal,
buried treasure, oil, &c., is shown to be chimerical, he proceeds in a
passage of which the following is the substance :-
"The case is somewhat different. with the discovery of springs and
(since ore-deposits always have been and often still are the channels of
springs) of ore-deposits.
Here we have much stronger and more abundant evidence in favour
of the rod, and here, in my judgment, there is a residuum of scientific
value after making all necessary deductions for exaggeration, self-
deception, and fraud. There is undoubtedly a practical science of
discovering metal-deposits and springs. Everybody knows that Indians
in our desert West can find water where most white men cannot, and
the experienced frontierman has learned the art from the savages. The
superficial signs of water springs are often subtle, and in settled dis-
tricts they are little studied by the inhabitants. It is not necessary
that a farmer who will want to locate a well once in his lifetime
should know the signs of water as a ranchman must know them.
Hence men who are keen _.observers get impressions amounting to a
local science of the " lay ,,--of the rocks, the difference in surface
vegetation, &c., &c. The unconscious judgment of such an expert
may decide upon a given spot, as he walks over it.
This brings me to the final inquiry whether there may not be, apart
from unconscious skill or judgment, a purely physical effect produced
by a subterranean spring upon a person walking over it. The effects
of moisture and temperature upon the nerves, are very striking, and
here, I think, is a matter which writers on the Divining Rod have gene-
rally overlooked."
With this suggested explanation of the possible residuum of fact,
Mr. Raymond closes his most valuable paper, and a summary of the
evidence here presented would seem to point to a similar conclusion.
If we looked only at the history of Divining, we should dismiss it
at once as a superstition. And, again, if we confine our attention to
test experiments, we find nothing that merits serious discussion.
But the evidence for the success of dowsing as a practical art is
very strong, and there lIeems to be an unexplained residuum when all
possible deductions are made for accident, for local knowledge, and for
inaccurate observations.
Mr. Raymond's hypothesis of the effects of moisture and tempera-
ture is not a very satisfactory one, but no better has yet been suggested.
Digitized by Coogle
90 The Dif71ning Rod. [Jan. IS,
APPENDIX I.
ABSTRACT OF EVIDENCB
Cullected by M1'. 1!l. Vaughan Jenkitll, of Cheltenham.
Divilll'1'-John Mullins, of Collerne, Wilts.
50.
lUXE AND ADDRESS OJ'
CORRESPONDENT. LOCALITY.
1 H.D. Shrines,Claverton Somerset
Manor, Bath
2 W. J. Brown, Hazlebury Somerset
House, Box
3 Col. Wilson, Sleaford Lincolnllhire
4 J. H. Vessey, Welton Lincolnshire
Manor, Louth
U Capt. H. Smith,
Folkingham
J.P., Lincolnshire
6 R. H. C. Nevile, Wellin- Lincolnshire
gore Hall, Grantham
7 A. Taylor, Hay Hill Somerset
Dairy,Bath
DATIl:. ABSTRACT OJ!' CASE.
1862 and Mullins, a stranger in the
since place, located several
wells successfully, and
pointed out a spot where
a spring was known to be;
details of other cases.
Archdeacon Earle was a
witness.
1812 Details of two good cases ;
only well near, 18Oft.deep;
found a disused wellwhich
was covered over; found
sovereigns hidden under
stones.
Employed M."a good deal;"
sunk six or seven wells by
his advice, all sUooel!sfully.
Wellsfound in drycountry
where largesums had been
spent in boring for water
without success.
1816 Well located correctly, and
depth fairly given.
Giveninfull in AppendixII.
Water found near trial well
10ft. deep. Spring at
a higher level and only
6ft. down; other striking
details.
11 years Has known him 17 years,
ago up and has employed him
till now often, with most satisfac-
tory results.
8 G. W. Johnson, Steward Lincolnshire 1883, &c.
to Lord Lindeay, Stam-
Details of several cases of
Su00eB8'; says that local
knowledge is need.ed to
judge depth of spring. An
emphatic testimony.
ford
9 Goo. Hancock, Corsham, Wilts
Wilts
Givenin fQll inAppendixII.
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] Tile Di-/Jining Rod.
110.
HAX. AND ADDRESS OP
CORRESPONDENT•. LOOALl'rY.
10 Geo. Cooling and Sons, Somerset
Seed Warehouse, Bath
II E. Issott, Ardwick Manchester
Brewery
DATE.
12 Hon. E. A. Pelham, Lincolnshire 1877
Grantham
13 Sir W.E.Welby.Gregory, Linoolnshir 1877
Bart., M.P., Grantham
14 F. T. Mott, F.R.G.S., Leicester 1882
Birstal Hill, Leicester
15 J. ThompsoD,Steward to Glo'ster 1877
the Duke of Beaufort,
Badminton
16 G. Aust,AgenttoTaylor 1818
Trustees, Bath
11 P. Penchin,TheBrewery Wiltshire
Box
18 J. Copley, Melton Mow· Lincolnshire
bray
91
ABSTRACT OF CASE.
Given in fullinAppendixII.
Abundant water at depth
predicted. Ground nl'ar
had not been tried for
water.
Strong spring found at
depth p~edicted.
Given in full inAppendixII.
Given in fullinAppendix II.
Water scarce. Strongspring
found deeper than pre-
dicted. Mr. T. was then
not a believer in the Divin·
ing Rod.
Well :found at about pre-
dicted depth, "where it is
difficalt to obtain good
water."
Two cases described,
Found a small spring at
7ft.in a locality where wa-
teris scarce;hadpreviously
sunk 75ft. in vain.
19 J. R. West, Bath Somerset 1871 Found spring for a brewery
20 J. H. Vesey, Malvern
21 The Hon. M. E. G. Finch Linoolnshire
Hatton, M.P., Sleaford
22 Benj. Perry, Bristol Glo'ster
1883 Spring foundat right depth
(letter addressed to Mul1ine)
Given in fullinAppendixll.
1873 Springs found in two cases
by watch.spring bending
d07fJn. Detailed account.
92 The Divining Rod. [Jo.u.18,
DiT!iner-W. S. Lawrence, of Bristol.
NO.
NAME AND ADDRESS OJ!'
CORRESPONDENT. LOCALITY.
23 Samuel Lang, 3, Bath Glo'stembire
Parade, Bristol
DATE. ABSTRACT OJ!' CASE.
Well dug in vain at cost of
.£100; spring located
20ft. away; tapped by
"culvert." Details given.
A remarkable case.
24 J. Pamons, Accountant, Glo'stembire 1882 Water found for Great
Bristol Western Electric Light
Company.
2;; J. G. Davey, M.D., and Somerset 1865 Old well at Northwood
Ass. S.P.R. Asylum insufficient; new
spring found and culvert
driven to it. Careful and
detailed account.
26 W. H. Cowlin, BUilding Somerset-
Superintendent, Eagle shire
Land Co.
21 BristolPortandChannel Glo'stembire 1883
Dock Company
28 T. Stone, Bristol Glo'stemhire
29 Mm. Hare, Newton Devon
Abbot
Detailed account of dis-
covery cOntrary to local
expectation. Clear and
good.
Letter from Dockmasterand
Hydraulic Foreman; ac-
ourate details; water dis-
covered at 10ft.
Well dug with moderate
success.
Spring found, where local
men considered sinking
hopeless; Lawrence a
stranger.. Good case.
30 R. Harvey, Ashton Gate Somemet
Brewery
1873 Spring found for the Com-
31 Stephens aud Bastow, Sussex
Bristol;S.Martell,their
Foreman; H. J. Shaw,
Architect, London
32 Col. Blount, Dorchester Dorset
33 J. H. Lockley, LewinB Somerset
Meo.deBrewery,Bristol
1879
pany. (Mereweo.ther also
present as dowser.)
Given in fullinAppendixIL
Strong 8pring found.
Valuable spring found for
the Company; also a well
pOinted out which was
known only to writer.
34 H. Crisp, Architect; R. Glo'stel'8hire A few Given infullinAppendixII.
Butterworth; Law- years ago
rence; Mereweather;
Mm. Bengough, &c.,&o.
1884.] The Divining Rod. 93
1'0.
-
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
1'0.
-
42
43
44
Dlrifter-W. Stokes, of Newbury, Berks.
lUlIlII AlID ADDRESS OP LOCALITY. DATIl. ABSTRACT OP CASH.
CORRESPONDENT.
Canon Portal, Newbury Berks Strong spring found.
Capt. Ward, Newbury Berks Spring found.
H. Taylor, Oare Hermi-
tage, Newbury
Berks Detailed account of experi-
ments.
W. Chatters, Sanderford' Berks Eight or nine times and nC)
Priory, Newbnry failure.
W. Church, Bailder, Berks Never known failure. Gives
Newbury case of discovery 2ft.
from vain boring, 35ft.
deep. Bas seen Stokesdi1I-
tinguish between a bucket
of spring water and o:qe 0 f
stagnant water.
Charles Alley, Marl- Wiltshire 1880 SucoeBsful find. Diviner not
borough in his own locality.
W. G. Adey, Newbury Berks Givenin full inAppendixII.
Di",inel'-Charles Cross, ooachman, of Ballatrow, near Bristol
NAJlE AND ADDRESS OP LOCALITY. DATIl. ABSTRACT OP CASE.
CORRllSPONDDT.
T. Killen,
Gurney
Farrington Somerset Spring found at 30ft.
M. J. Williams,Paulton Somerset Spring foundat 37ft.
G. Thresher, Frome Somerset Spring found.
DI",i1l81'-Thos. Pavey, of Cheddar, Somerset.
NAlIE AND ADDRESS OP
CORRESPONDENT.
LOCALITY. DATE. ABSTRACT OP CASE.
1--------1--------------------
45 T. K. Taplin, F. J. Nal- Somerset· Disputed case, in newspaper
correspondence. Mr. Nal-
der had a well found by
three independent dowsers
der, Westbury-sub-
Mendip
and considers it cleM and
valuable. A former owner
pooh-poohs the matter.
46 Alfred Smith, Pershore Worcester- 1883 A good case j Pavey went,
shire on Mr. Vaughan Jenkins'
recommendation, to a new
district j water found in
an unlikely place.
Digitized by Coogle
94 Tlui Dicining Roa. [Ja.n.18.
Di'l:lner-George Lockyer.
!l0.1
!lAD AlilD ADDBBSS OF
LOCALIH. DATE. ABSTIlAC'r 01',CASE.
COBRBSPOlilDBIIT.
47 E.V. Jenkins, Chelten· Monmouth- 1852 Given in fullinAppendixII.
ham shire
Divitler not knoIM.
JlO.
NAMB AlIID ADDBBSS OF
LOCALIH. DATB. ABSTBAC'r OF CASIL
CORRBSPOIIDIIIIT.
48 Angus and Co.. Con- Dorset 1874 Given in fullinAppendixII.
I
tractors, A1l8tralia
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] ..Tile Dieining Rod. 95
APPENDIX II.
SELECTED CASES
From Mr. E. Vaughan Jenkins' Collection.
No.5.
From CAPTAIN HENRY SMITH, Horbling, Folkingham, Lincolnshire.
December 26th, 1882.
It will perhaps be the best answer to your letter respecting John Mullins
(the water-finder as he is called here) if I tell you as well as I can what took
place when he was at my place. My object in sending for him was to obtain
his advice as to the best place to bore for water on BOrne of my land, and
when he came he said he must get a twig. J told him I did not believe in
his conjuring tricks, I only wanted his advice, and he then said he was no
conjurer, but was not the slightest use without his tools, BO Istood by whilst
he cut a couple of white thorn twigs. My nephew went with me, and we
each carried a thistle spud. In croBBing the first field I said "I have water
here, so need not trouble you," but Mullins said he might as well carry the
twig in his fingers, and whilst we were talking about th~ stock in the field
he stopped suddenly and said we were crossing water. This I knew was the
case, although there was then no appearance of any. The next field was the
one I especially sent for him for, as I had dug a pond and bored about 4Oft..
but found no water. I took him to the side of the field above the pond, and
after casting about for some time he said decidedly there was no water there,
and proposed trying the other side, where he said there was plenty. We
marked the place, and I have since bored there and found an abundant
8upply of water. I then took him across two other fields, and in each he
found what he called a weak spring not worth boring for. We were at that
time walking a little distance from him on each side, and marked the ground
where he said he was over water, I believe unknown to him. On our return
I said, "Now Mullins, I shall blindfold you and see if you can find those
places again." He agreed to hold his head back and keep his eyes firmly
closed, aud as far as we could see he did so, and in each field stopped at
exactly the same places we had marked, and the .marks on the turf were so
slight and from 50 to 100 feet from him on each side that I do not believe
he could have seen them if he had opened his eyes.
We then came home to my lawn, and I showed him a beautiful spring,
and also informed him what quarter we supposed the water came from
(north); he tried allover the north side, and said most pollitively there was
no water there, and then proceeded to the south side, and seemed almostcon-
vulsed. He said it was the strongest spring he had ever felt. I and my
nephew took hold of the twig on each side below his fingers, and
still it twisted up. I have bored there and found abundance
of water. I may say here that Mullins had not been in our neighbourhood
before, and distinctly asserted the water bearing strata lay very different from
that we had always before supposed. W0 are on clay between the fen and
limestone,and the land rises steadily from us until we reach the highest
Digitized by Coogle
96 .Tile Divining Roa. [Jan. IS,
point on the Great Northern Railway (Great Ponton), and my theory was
that the rainfall there percolated the limestone' and under the clay strata.
which is continued from thence to us. This Mullins quite denied, and our
boring.have proved the correctneaa of his statement so far as this, that there
is abundance of water in the direction pointed out by him, but there may also
be water where he says there is none; this has not been tested.
I did not look upon Mullins &8 a charlatan, but suspected he did a good
deal by guess, and must C(lnfeaa to beingunable to prove this.
That he could find the same indications of water blindfold quite puzzled.
me and my nephew, too, who is a thoroughly practicalman.
That the twig was acted upon when Mullins had no control over itsmove-
ments, we were also both satisfied. Mullins was very confident both in hia
assertion there was water or otherwise, and certainly did not adopt the usual
,.8le of a charlatan of falling in with the views of those who paid him.
I have recommended him to some first-class busineBB men, and all tell me
they are satisfied he is no impostor. I may a4d that, as a magistrate, I have
frequently been told that I ought not to countenance such a man, but I
generally take my own line, and try to arrive at some conclusion. In thia
matter I can only say I do not understand it at all, but give you the facts as
near as I can, and shall be glad to hear of any further steps taken to explain
this mystery.
No.9.
From GEO. HANCOCK, "Fair View," Corsham, Wilts.
January 2nd, 1883.
Our testing of John Mullins' water finding powers has been of a negative
rather than of a positive character. We have lately sunk a number of shafta
with a view to mining operations, and our desire has been to select spota
where there was no water to hinder us in our sinkings.
Mr. Mullins hasgone over the ground with me and pointed out such spots.
He has always been careful to explain" that we may, in a wet time, be
troubled with surface water, but that we should find no springs." In every
case he has been right. But in a shaft which we are now sinking we have
come to a fissure about 40 ft. from the surface, and through this fiBBure
there comes so much water that I have to-day been obliged to arrange a
pumping apparatus in order that the me~ may be able to proceed with the
work.
'fhe ground in the neighbourhood of this shaft Mr. Mullins reported to
be full of springs, and sinking our shaft below the level of the springs and
breaking into the fiBBure may have diverted the water from its natural course.
In that case there may not have been, when Mr. Mullins went over the
ground, any water where now it is coming into our shaft.
Mullins generally forms an opinion-and a roughly correct one-as to the
depth of tho water below the surface, but he lays no claim to accuracy on
this point. He says that a weak spring near the surface exerts the same
degree of force upon the twig as a strong spring far down.
Digitized by Coogle
1884.J The Divining Rod. 97
I have observed that after he has been walking about for some hours he
gets physically exhausted, and, if I mistake not, 80mew~t irritable. He has
told me that when he passes over a strong spring and the twig turns quickly,
a thrill runs through his entire system, and that if he follows the water
finding for several days consecutively, he is unable to sleep at night.
From what I have seen and heard of Mullins, I believe him to be a per-
fectly honest and reliable man. It is certain that he finds hidden springs and
streams of water by the mealls above described, but he himself is ignorant of
the natural law-and I make no doubt it is a natural law-byvirtue of whose
operation there iun affinity between him and the stick, and between the stick
and running water, when the stick is in his hands.
No. 10.
From GEO. COOLING AND SON, The Seed Warehouse, Broad Street, Bath.
Janual'y 6th, 1883.
We had very strong proof of the efficacy of the divining rod through
Mullins, uf Colerne. We had gone to very considerable expense in excavat-
ing to secure a supply of water for our greenhouses at the nursery, and were
about giving up the matter in despair when we were recommended to send
for Mullins, which we did, although with a great deal of incredulity. He,
however, pointed out a spot where he said at a distance of 10 or 12 feet we
should get a good spring, and within that depth we found water, and haV&
had a constant supply running through all our houses since.
No. 13.
From SIR W. E. WELBy-GREGORY, Bart., M.P., Denton Manor, Grantham.
January 28t1~, 1883.
In the spring of 1877 I was preparing to build a large country house on
a new site, which I had selected on account, among other reasons, of its;
dryneBII. This site was on a laPge plateau of red loamy soil, resting on a
bed of solid rock* several feet thick, in which there was no indication of
water; and it was a problem where the water supply was to come from, a&
there was none apparent which could be brought to the hou~e without great
expense. While puzzling over this I heard that John Mullins, of Colerne.
had been employed to find water at various places in the neighbourhood with
very remarkable success; that he had been tested in almost everyconceivable-
way, and that not only country gentlemen and farmers, but plumbers in the-
neighbouring towns had frequently called in his aid, purely as a matter (If
* The rock I believe is marlstone, and the thickness of the upper bed has bet-n
since ascertained to be between Beven aDd eight feet.
II
98 The Dinning Rod. [Jan. 18,
business, and I was at last induced to send for him. When he came, I
asked him whether he required a twig of any particular wood, and he replied
that almost any wood would do, except lance·wood and box-wood, which
were too stiff'. He then cut for himself from the nearest convenient tree,
which I think was a sycamore, a forked twig in the shape of a Y of a foot or
18 inches long. I set him to work for a few minutes at first on my lawn,
sending him over parts where I knew there was a. current of water at a
depth of a few feet, though none was visible or audible on the surface. He
slowly quartered his ground like a pointer, bending forward and holding
the twig about the level of his knees, point downwards, and tightly
grasped an inch or two from the extremities of the prongs of the fork, with,
if I recollect rightly, the thumb and fourth and little fingers of each hand
below, and the fore and middle fingers above the twig. Whenever he croued
the water, of which I have spoken (a drain), the twig turned upwards in his
hands, though he apparently resisted its doing 80 to the utmost; and the
same tlling happened at other parts of the lawn, where, though we did not
know of any runlet, it was very likely that one existed. I then took him to
the kitchen garden, where we had always been much in want of water; and
presently the twig stopped him ata spotapparently as dry as the rest,and with
nothing distinctive about it. I asked him what amount he supposed there
was, whether running or stagnant, and at what depth. He answered that
he was certain there was water, and that it was running, for no amount of
stagnant water had the smallest effect upon him; but that he could only
guess at the amount and the depth from the force with which the twig turned
up. From his experience he should say that it was a stream not thicker than
a walking stick, and at a depth of from 20 to 30 feet. He traversed the rest
of the kitchen garden without finding any more, and I next took him to the
site of the new house. Here be lOon indicated two lines, about 30 yards
apart, along which he said water was flowing in somewhat greater volume
than the rill he had found in the kitchen garden, and at a depth, he thought,
of from 30 to 40 feet. This was all be could find there, and as this seemed
hardly likely to be sufficient for my requirements, I felt that it must be
looked for at a greater distance. To save time, I took him to a spot from
which he could see the contour of tbe bills (about 110 mile distant from the
bouse) from wbich most of our water comes, showed him what spring
we knew of, and told him to choose for himself tlle best. part
to try for more.· Be unhesitatingly selected the upper part of a
certain hill (which was afterwards pronounced by an eminent civil engineer
to be unquestionably the most likely spot within sight to contain water),
and thither we went. He tried -the whole of that hillside over, without
finding a drop, and we afterwards took another hillside with no better suc-
cess. It was now late, and Mullins was evidently becoming exhausted. I
felt that I had seen enough to convince me that he was no impostor, and
that whatever discoveries he made were due to some force over which he
had no control, not to any power he had acquired by experience or observa-
tion of making good guesses at where water was likely to be; but I was not
satisfied that he had found anything for me which promised to be of any
practical use; so I dismiBBed· him to tea in the housekeeper's room. After
tea several of the servants whose curiosityw8.s excited got him to exhibit his
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] T/~e Divining Rod. 99
art to them, and tried whether they themaeh'es had any po'Wer with tll0 twig.
My gardener, Joseph Towers, found that it worked in his hands nearly as
strongly as in those of Mullins himself. I took no further action then in the
matter; but described what I had selln to the civil engineer before referred
to, who. though by no means' altogether pooh-poohing it, assured me that
from his knowledge of the geological formation of the country, he could say
confidently there was no chance of finding a water supply under my new
house at a depth of less than 120 or 130 feet; and his opinion was confirmed
by another geological authority who was then in the neighbourhood. So I
virtually gave up all hope of deriving any benefit from Mullins' assertions.
Some weeks later, however, my gardener came to me and said that he was
in great want ofwater in the kitchen garden; that he had tried repeatedly with
the twig over th6 place where Mullins indicated a rivulet; that it invariably
turned up at the spot, and that he was quite cOD\'inced there was water
there. If I would allow him, he could sink a well with the garden labourers,
so as not to involve any additional expense. I consented to tIus; the well
was sunk to a depth of nearly 20ft., when water poured into it freely, and
it has supplied a long range of hothouses ever since.
I Imd previously decided upon bringing down the main supply of water
to the new house in pipes, by gravitation, from a considerable distance; but
as this was a heavy work, necessarily taking much time, the question of a
supply during building had become urgent, and on the strength of what had
occurred in the kitchen garden, I let Towers to traverse the new site, where
the lines of water indicated by Mullins had been marked by pegs 60 yards or
70 yards apart, and just visible above the grass. These lines Towers and his
twig emphatically confirmed, and I proceeded to test him. I had the
projecting extrenlities of the prongs of the twig held tight by pincers, so
that there could be no voluntary action on Towers' part when crossing the
marked lines. Despite of this, the point of the twig twisted itself upwards.
till the bark was wrinkled and almost split, while the strain and preBSure
upon thl' muscles of the man's hands were most apparent. I then blind-
folded him, and turned him loose. The result was precisely the samo.
Whenever he croBSed Mullins' lines, up went the twig. The presumption
now appeared to be so strong in favour of the twig that I deternUoed LO
disregard the geologists, and have a well sunk on one of the lines. This
was done; at the depth of about 28ft. the water rushed in, and rose till it
stood about 8ft. deep, at which it now remains, having, in the meantime.
fully supplied all the requirements during building the house, which were
probably not leBS than 1,000 gallons a day for three years or more, and
since that having acted as an ample reserve to the house for all purposes
whenever the distant supply for any reason has had to be shut oft'. I may
add that I have since had occasion to sink a shaft for a lift between the two
lines indicated by Mullins, some 12 yards or 15 yards from either, and to a
depth considerably greater (10ft. or 12ft.) than the well. As no water
came into this, though the formation was precisely similar, and the well hll.8
not been affected by it, I am satisfied that, had I not employed Mullins, I
might have sunk wells in any number to no purpose under my house, unless
I had happened to hit upon the rills indicated by him with such perfect
precision.
H :3
Digitized by Coogle
100 The Dieinin(l Rod. [Jan. 18,
No. 14.
From F. T. MO'lT, F.R.G.S., Birsta! Hill, Leicester.
Written for tke British AlJ8OCiation Meeting at &uthampton, 1882.
I happen to be the owner of two acres of land on the slope of a hill in
Charnwood Forest, Leiceatershire, 600ft. above sea level. The hill consists
of some ancient metamorphic slate, of which the geological horizon has not
been definitely determined. On thisIand there is 00 spring water. Springs
exist in several directions at distances of from half·a-mile to a mile, but on
the other hand several wells have been sunk at similar distances in other
directions but no water found. In one case the boring was carried to about
100ft., in a rich valley, but the search for water was unsucceBBfuI. About a
month ago I heard accidentally, but from what appeared to be a disinterested.
source, that a man was living near Chippenham, in Wiltshire, who had a
peculiar method of discoveringsprings. As a good water supply would double
the value of my land, I made some inquiries and received. from a brewer at
Manchester, and from a large agriculturist at Grantham, such strong
testimony. as to the ability of the person referred to that I thought it worth
while to send for him and to let him try his skill. He came accordingly, a
fine, sturdy, intelligent artisan, with no scientilic knowledge, but a frank,
manly address, and not the slightest appearance of a charlatan. He said,
" H there is a spring on your land I think I can find it, but my method is a
mystery to myself; I am always in doubt whether it will be sueeeasful, but
hitherto it has never failed, and I have performed the operation hundreds
of times." I took him to the'land, and on the way hestopped at a hawthorn
hedge and cut out a branch. This he trimmed up until he had got
two twigs about the thickneu of a cedar pencil, united at one end so as
to take the form of the letter V with something like a right
angle at the base, and each of the arms rather more than a foot long. On
reaching the ground he took one of the arms in each hand, holding his ex-
temporised implement before him with the angledownwards, and he walked
across the field in a direction at right angles to the slope of the land. When
he came to a certain spot I saw the angle of the stick tum upwards suddenly
and forcibly, He stopped at this point and desired me to drive in a stake.
Then he went about 20 yards further down the field and croBBed it again in
the same manner. This time, however, I accompanied him step by step,
holding his hands firmly grasped in mine and watching carefully for any
movement of his muscles. Again the angle of the stick leaped up, twist·
ing round within the grasp of his fingers, and another stake was driven in.
A third time he crossed the field, still lower down, while 1 held the two arms
which projected beyond his closed hands, nipping them with my full strength
and watching his hands at the same time. Yet again the stick turned up as
before, twisting round within my fingers as well as his, and a third stake
was put down. This proceaa was gone through several times more, with like
results, and we then found that the stakes stood in a diagonal line acrOBB the
middle of the field. "Now," said he, .. if you sink a well anywhere on that
line you will find water, and judging from the force with which the stick
moved, and my previous experiences, I should say that you will have to sink
at least 30ft., and pOlIsibly as muchas 40ft. or 45ft." As the line thus marked
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] TI,e Divining Rod. 101
out WBI not conveniently situated I desired him to try the upper part of the
land, which he did, but without result. Another short diagonal line was,
. however, found at the bottom corner.
Not placing much reliance upon what looked like a sort of necromancy, I
yet resolved that it should be tested, and just before I left home for South-
ampton I sent a gang of well-sinkers to the spot. Yesterday morning I re-
ceived the following telegram: "Well, 28ft., sandy bottom, water 2ft.
deep." I may say that to the depth of 20ft. the soil was dry, and I had re-
ceived notice two days previously that on reaching 21ft. it became moist for
the first time.
These are the facts, what is the interpretation of them 1 It may be said
,that the finding of water was purely accidental, and that a well sunk in any
part of the field would have been equally succeBBfuL But there is no proof
of this, and the experience of other persons at Manchester and Grantham,
and the extraordinary behaviour of the stick have still to be accounted for.
Of course, my own unsupported testimony as to the behaviour of the
stick will not, and O'IJ,fIht not to be taken as absolute proof of my statement.
There were in fact three other witneBBes, but I cannot produce them, at
Southampton. Can any physicalcause be suggested which could in anyway
be supposed to produce'such behaviour in 0. forked stick 1 It had much the
appearance ofthe deflection of the index in a galvanometer. If this man had
a particularly sensitive constitution, and if an underground water-stream
running for centuries in one direction could set up some kind of electric
current, might he not actually become a galvanometer giving visible indica-
tions of that current 1
Note.-The well was sunk to the depth of 31ft. and contained always
6ft. of good water.
No. 21.
From the HON. M. E.G. FINCH HATTON, M.P., 23,EnnismoreGardens, S.W.
February 29th, 1884.
Hearing that J. Mullins poBBessed the power of finding springs of water,
by means of a forked twig held between his hands, I desired him t.o come
over to Haverholme Priory, near Sleaford, where I live.
This is what happened. Firat he' cut a forked twig from a living tree, and
held it between his hands, the centre point downwards and the two ends
protrnding between the fingers of each hand. ,
He then stooped forward and walked over the ground to be tried. Sod-
denly he would stop and the central point would revolve in a half circle until
it pointed the reveNe way. This he stated to be owing to the presence of a
80bterranean spring, and further that by the strength of ,the movement he
could gauge the a;pproximate depth.
My brother, Hon. Harold Finch Hatton, and I each took hold of one of
the ends, protruding as stated above, and held them fast while the phe-
nomenon took place, to make sure that it was not caused by a movement,
voluntary or otherwise, of the man's own hand or fingers. The tendency to
Digitized by Coogle
102 Tlte Divilling Rod. [Jan. IS.
twist itself, on the twig's part, "Vas so great that, on ourholding firmly on to
the ends, the twig split and finally broke off.
The same thingoccurred when standing on a bridge over a running stream.
Stagnant water, he states, has no effect on the twig.
Though now convinced ourselves of the man's good faith, and of the
8utomatil'.-or rather independent-action of the twig, we resolved to test·
Mullins in various ways, of which the following is an account.
First.-We established it on good authority that Mullins had no previous
acquaintance with Haverholme.
1. I took him on to the grass in front of the house,across which the water-
supply pipe passed. There was no indication of its presence on the surface,
nor did I previously mention its existence to Mullins; on crossing it, the twig·
moved in the manner described, and he could trace tha water to right and
left by its means, along the path actually taken by the pipe.
2. On our way to the kitc:hen garden Mullins discovered a spring on the.
open lawn, whose existence was unknown to me, it had been closed in so long,
but was subsequently attested by an old labourer on the place who remem·
bered it as a well, and had seen it bricked in many years before.
3. On reaching the kitchen garden I knew that a load pipe, leading
water to a tap outside the wall, crossed the gravel path at a certain spot. On
croBBing it the twig made no sign. I was astonished at first, till I
remembered what Mullins had said about stagnant water, and that the tap
was not running.
I sent to have it turned on, re·conducted Mullins over the ground, when
the twig immediately indicated the spot.
When Mullins had passed on, I carefully marked the exact spot indicated
by the twig. When he had left the garden, I said, "Now, Mullins, may we
blindfold you and let you try ~ " He said, "Oh yes, if you don't lead me
into a pond or anything of that sort." We promised.
Several sceptical persons were present who took care the blindfolding was
thoroughly done.
I then re·conducted him, blindfold, to the marked spot by a different
route, leaving the tap running, with the result that the stick indicated with
mathematic exactneBB the same spot. At first he slightly overran it a foot or
so, and then felt round, as it were, and seemed to be led back into the exact.
centre of influence by the twig. .
All present considered the trial entirely conclusive of two things.
First, of the man's perfect good faith.
Secondly, that the eff6Ct produced on the twig emanated from an agency
outside of himself, and appeared due to the presence of running water.
My brother, Mr. Harold }'inchHatton, is present as I write, and confirma
what I say.
It is true that one of the Misses Wordsworth tried the twig, and was
surprised to find that an influence of a similar nature, though not so strong. _
was imparted to it.
I merely give facts, without attempting to explain them.
No doubt it will be long before they are generally admitted-probably
not until scientific (1) men cease to gratify their vanity by denying the
existtlnce of everything they cannot explain or account for fully.
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] The Divining Rod. 103
It appears to me to be due to Bome occult fonn of magnetism, requiring a
high conductive power in the operator. Mullins says that he feeIa something
akin to an electric shock each time, and that his arms ache all night after
many experiments.
No.3!.
From STEPHENS AND BARSTOW, Bristol Steam Joinery Works.
25th M arc:h, 1883.
In the year 1879 we were building a house at Horsham,in Sussex,for Mr.
J. Renton, of Guildford.
There were one ortwo wells on the property, but little or no water·could
be obtained from either (in fact water was very Bearce indeed in the neigh-
bourhoodgenerally), and it was thought desirable to sink another well.
As we had known Mr. Lawrence for many years, and knew that he
profeased to be able to discover water, we communicated with and arranged
with him to go to Horsham, hoping that if he should point out a place
where we mightaink, that the well would be a greater success than those
already there.
Mr. Lawrence proceeded to the place, but we cannot, from personal
observation, give you an account of what took place, as no member of the
firm was able to accompany him (we may here state that neither of us have
ever soon him use the" rod"), but we enclose you a letter from the man who
was foreman upon the works at the time of Mr. Lawrence's visit (he is still in
our employ, and we wrote to him upon receiving your letter), in. which he
fully describes how Mr. L. proceeded.
You will see by Mr. Martell's letter that he was in every way successful.
From S. MARTELL, Foreman.
March 26th, 1883.
He selected one, a hazel twig, and walked about with it. On coming to
a certain place he said, "Here is the spring of water," and the twig was
violently jumping up and down, and he marked the place wbich was to be
the centre of the well. He then tried the steel spring with the same result.
On commencing to dig the well I was obliged to move a little on one side, as
one of the new drains was in the way, and the centre of the well, as marked
. by him, became the side. On sinking down about 40ft. the spring burst out .
as large as a hammer handle in the very IIfot that he marked for the centre.
From HENRY SHAW, Architect, 52, New Broad Street, E.C., and 39,
Clapton Square, E.
Mat·ch 28th, 1883.
With regard to the" Divining Rod," in 1878 I erected a house at Rudg-
wick for J. T. Renton, Esq.; the site was on high ground, and the subsoil
of stiff clay. During the progress of the works the contractor proceeded to
Digitized by Coogle
104 TIle Divining Rod. [Jan. IS,
form a well close to the new building, and had bcwed a 'lJery c/)/l.Bide1'a.ble depth
without coming to water. Meurl. StephenB and Bastow, of Bristol, were th&
contractors, and they advised that Mr. Lawrence Bhould be employed to
deted a apritlg. I had heard of him bef~re, and was greatly intereBted as to
his mode of procedure. He was Bhown where we had already bored. [Then
followB a description of the proceu.] He said we Mould find water, the posi.
tion being only some few yarda from the original boring. We proceeded to
Bink at the place indicated by Mr. Lawrence, and within aome 14 yards from
the Burface we came "POI/. a good apring of water, and which has, I believe,
continued to Bupply the houBe from that time to this. .1 may Btate that there
was an old well Bome 100 yardB from the new building, but Mr. Lawrenc&
was not informed of this to my knowledge.
No.34.
From MRs. BENGOUGH, 5, Apaley Road, Clifton, Bristol.
March 7th, 1883.
I diBcovered I could ule the" Divining Rod" in thil way. A profeBBional
water-finder in this neighbourhood called on me on Bome buaineu, and
happened to say he waa going that afternoon to find water at my coulin'B
new honse at Henbury. Alarge well had been dug to a considerable depth
without any Bign of water, and aB the house was nearly completed the matter
was very important. 1 asked how he was going to find water, and he took
from his pocket a watch-spring, and, going on to the lawn, showed me how
he used it. I then tried it, and found it worked quite as much in my handB
as in his. After he left I determined to go over to my couBin's house and try
if I could find the water before he came over in the afternoon, ao I bought
a watch.spring and drove over, and tried it (before many witn8B88B) close to
the well. 1 found it was most agitated at a spot about two yards from the
well, and from this spot I traced a lin!' acrou the garden to a field beyond,
by the agitation of the watch-spring. My friendB marked the place, and theu
we waited for the water.finder. He came and fixed exactly on my spot.
From H. J. CRISP, Architect, Bristol.
Mat·ch, 24th, 1883.
Prior to sinking the well, we consulted a geologist as to the probability
of finding water, and at what depth. He informed us that it was not likely
that water would be found until we had Bunk through the bed of the moun-
tain limestone existing there, and which was about 150ft. deep, when we
should come on a bed of clay and find an abundant supply of water. ThiB
applied to th~ di&trict where this stone exists, and therefore the well could
be Bunk in anypart with the same ohances of finding water. We accordingly
sunk a shaft to a depth of 150ft. through the rock, and then bored 10ft.,
but found no;water. This may perhaps be accounted for to some extent, &&
by ill luck ",e came in contact ",ith some faults (or saddle-backs as they ar&
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] The Ditining Rod. 105
sometimes termed) in the rock. We then called in Mr. Lawrence with his
rod ; he held it over the mouth of the well and it was motionless, and Mr.
Lawrence stated it was no use sinking any deeper there; he then walked in
a spiral line round the well, and when at a distance of about 20ft., the rod
moved vjgoro~y, but nowhere else near thE' well. With his advice we
drove a leyelheading from the shaft at a depth of about 100ft. from the
surface, towards the spot indicated by the rod, and oIter proceeding abouli
30ft. the water suddenly flowed in at the end of the heading, and the men
had to leave the headingat once and get to the surface. Since this there has
been a good and regular supplyof water.
[These accounts are confirmed by Mr. Butterworth, the owner of the
house, Mr. Lawrence and others. There is some slight discrepancy in the
measurements, which, however, does not materially affect the case.]
No. 41.
From W. G. ADEY, Builder and Timber Merchant, Weat Mills, Newbury.
Apt-il 19th, 1883.
William Stokes has been in my employ aa a carpenter and wheelwright
from the. year 1865, in which year I built some stables and chaise houses for
the Rev. M. J. Ridley, of East Woodhay, and Stokes was on the works as a.
carpenter; and, while it waa in hand, Mr. Ridley wished the well that
supplied the house to be opened and cleared out, but no one on the estate
knew where it was, Dot having been opened for a number of years; but
Stokes, with his divining rod, discovered the well (although a perfect
atranger to the place), and it proved to be where he predicted, under the
paving in the centre of the pathway.
Altogether Stoke. has been employed by me in that capacity as "water-
fi~der" or " prophet," aa he is called, in, probably, 18 or 20 different pla!:es,
and I cannot say that he has failed on anyone occasion, and I must confess
that no one made greater ridicule of his abilities in that direction than I did,
but was quite converted and made a true believer by the following
circumstance.
In the year 1872, I was employed to build a mansion in this neighbour-
hood, and was naturally desirous to have the well as near to the scullery as
possible, and directed my men to sink the well accordingly at the N.W.
angle of the building ; but after they had sunk the well a few feet, Stokes
went up, unknowing to me, and told my foreman that it was of no use going
on with that well as WA should not get water, and told them
where the spring was, viz., in the N.E. corner, and that it was
near the surface. My foreman asked me what he should do in
the matter, and I told him not to pay any attention to such
rubbish, and continue sinking the well. We did so, and ata depth of nearly
40ft. there was not the slightest appearance of coming to ~ater. My men
then threw out a hole where Stokes indicated, about 30 or 35ft. from the
well, and at a depth of only 6ft, from the surface came upon a spring which
kept the bricklaye1'8 and plasterers supplied all. through the job, and haa
been used for the supply of the house to this day.
Digitized by Coogle
106 TI,e Divining Rod. [Jan. 18,
On another occasion I det1iated very sliqhUy from the course of the spring a&
indicated by Stokes and haJ, to sink another weU where he directed.
I could give you a list of several wells sunk under his direction, but I
believe you have written to, and had replies from, several of my employers.
One bucket filled with spring water and another with rain water, placed
side by side, and he will tell ryou, when blindfolded, which is the spring
water and which rain water.
He is an abstainer, and a highly nervous, sensitive man, and I am now as
great a believer in his powers as I was formerly a disbeliever.
He is going in the country to-morrow to advise in the sinking of a well
on the hill for a new house I am commencing.
No. 47.
From E. VAUGHAN JENKINS.
October 7th, 1882.
About 30 years ago I purchased a plot of land on a hill slope two acres
in extent whereon to erect a residence of considerable value. It formed part
of an estate laid out for building purposes in a suburb to Newport, Mon-
mouthshire. The absence ofwaterworks necessitated the holder of each plot
who intended building thereon to sink a well for his water supply. Having
chosen the site for my residence, the architect fixed upon the most conveni-
ent spot for the first requisite-the well.
After the well·sinkers had reached a depth of 51ft. they decided, from
the nature of the stn~ta, &c., that it would be perfectly useless to proceed
further with the sinking, as the search for water in that direction would
be sure to end in failure.
A consultation of all the .. knowing ones" in the matter. was therefore
held,with the result that, owing to the peculiar dip of the landand for various
other reasons, "they did not consider there was the least possible chance of
water being obtained on the plot of land anywhere." In this dilemma the
foreman of the masons, a native of Devon or Cornwall-I forget which-ex-
claimed, "Why don't you try the divining rod 1 In the part of the country
I come from no one would think of sinking a well without the guidance of
the rod." Although quite incredulous, I replied that I should only be but too
glad to have it tried if he knew anyone who could use it. Upon which he
said his little boy, 11 years old, possessed the power in a remarkable degree,
and that if water was to be obtained on tho plot he would pledge his chame-
ter that his boy would find it. The lad, an honest, innocent, and nice-
looking little feHow, being sent for and informed what was required of him,
immediately repaired to a neighbouring hedge, and returned with a rod of
blackthorn or hazel-I think the former-about 2ft. 3in. in length and of
the thickness of telegmph wire. Then placing the ends of the rod between
the thumb and forefinger of each hand, bending it slightly and holding it
before him at a short distance from the ground, he started 011 his expedition,
I and others following him and watching every movement closely. After
going up and down, crossing and re-crossing the ground several times, but
never on the Bame lines, the lad stopped, and, to our great surprise. we saw
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] Tke Divining Roil. 107
the rod exhibit signs of motion, the fingers and thumbs beincr perfectly mo-
tionleaa. The motion or trembling of the rod increasing it slowly began to
revolve, then at an accelerated pace, fairly twisting itself to such an extent
that the lad, although he tried his best to retain it, was obliged to let it go,
and it fled to some distance. The experiment being thus far succeBBful,
coupled with the respectability of the parents, the lad's transparent
innocence, and the father's positive aaaurance that the operation might
be immediately commenced with the certainty of succeaa, the next day
8a.W the well-sinkers in full swing on the spot indicated, and on reaching
the depth of 48ft. they had the gratification of striking on a strong
spring of pure and beautiful water coming in so fast as to cause them to
make a hurried exit, and in a few hours the well contained 0. depth of 10ft.
of water, rising since occasionally to 15ft., and so it now continues. The
father stated that when he was a boy he poaaeaaed the same power, but
entirely lost it at 16 years of age. I send you this incident for what it may
be wl)rtb. To myself personally its results were most important, as it
changed the position of my residence and secured me an exhaustless supply
of beautiful water. 1 was then, and I am now, fully convinced of the total
absence of any deceit or colluBion and of the full integrity of the whole
transaction, no fee or reward being 8Bked for or expected, and I therefore
cannot avoid entertaining the opinion that there mUBt be "something in it,"
that something being dependent upon Bome peculiar magnetic or other con-
dition of the human agent employed, and it may yet form one of the grand
discoveries of this or some future age.
No. 48.
From TOPHAM ANGUS AND Co., Contractorll.
IJecembe,' 28th, 1882.
In the Bummer of 1874:, we had instructions from the Somerset and
Dorset Railway Company to sink a well at Shepton Mallet Station. We snnk
to a depth of 103ft., and got no traces of water. Our chief agent sent over
from Bath a man who could find water with the "Divining Rod." On
arrival he went down the well, and after Bundry manreuvring with the rod.
he said "You will never come upon water here." He came up. After walking
round the well a few feet, he came upon water which he said was boiling
40ft. below the surfacII. He recommended a small heading to be driven,
about 40ft. from where he was standing. And he said, "I do not think the
miners will have time to finish timbering before the rush of water will be
upon them." Naturally the Cornwall miners, who had sunk the well, and
myself thought it all humbug, but we found his statement true, for in leaa
than 24: hours we had 63ft. of water, and we got a lO·horse power engine
brought on the ground, and we could not reduce the·water more than two
feet in the 24 hourB.
Digitized by Coogle
108 .Annual BU8ine88 Meeting. [Jan. 18, 1884•
ANNUAL BUSINESS MEETING.
The annual busineB8 meeting of the members of the Society wns held at
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, on the 18th of January.
The President, ProfcB80r H. Sidgwick, was in the chair.
The balance-sheet for 1883 (which has been circulated among all tb~
Members of the Society) was placed before the meeting. It showed that
although the receipts from Bubacriptiol18 had greatly increased Bince the
preceding year, they had, even with the amount received from the sale of the
Proceedings, fallen short of the expenditure by over £300. Thp PreBident
said thatthis deficiency had been fully met by the donationa which had been
given in aid of the Society'B work. Looking at the fact of the rapid growth
of the Society, which had increased ita numbers from 150 at the commence·
ment of last year to over 300 at the present time, and was still Bteadily
increasing, he thought that thiB discrepancy between the income proper of
the Society and ita expenditure need not cauae the Members any concern.
He thought that, at this early stage in the development of the Society, it
was far more important to make the work efiective than to balance subscrip-
tions and expenditure. Accordingly he contemplated with perfect equanimity
the prospect that. although there would be a further large increase in the
amount received from subacriptiona, the Society would again this.,ear have
partially to subsist upon "charity." Indeed, he bad the pleasure of
announcing three or four additions to the Reiearch Fund since the beginning
• of the year.
The following alterationa in the conBtitution and rules, which had been
agreed to by the Council during the past year, were submitted to the meeting
and adopted :-
That in Rule 3 the worda-" Provided that no Preaident shall hold the office
for more than three;years coDBeOlltively"-be omitted.
That a new Rule, to follow Rule 8, be adopted as follows :_hThe Council
shall have power to elect as Correaponding Members, who Bhall be on the BaIIle
footing as Honorary Members, persona able and willing to forward the objeots
of the Society."
That the following olause be introdnoed as the second sentence in Rule 17 :-
.. The names of persona for the flnt time proposed to be co-opted on the Counoil
shall be brought forward at one meetingof the Counoil, and Bhall be sentround
to all Memberaof Counoil previous toits next meeting, when the TOting sball be
by ballot, and a unanimous vote of those present shall be requisite to carry
the election.It
That in Rule 22 the third olause stand thus :-"In all meetings ofthe Council
fonr Bhall be a quorum "-inBtead of as at present "-"In all meetings of the
Council five shall be a quornm."
The following gentlemen had been nominated by the COlmcil to fill the
vacancies cauaed by the resignation of two Membera during the year, and by
the retirement of four othera under Rule 18 : - .
EDMUND GURNEY IFRANK PODJlORE IHENRY A. BJlITH
EDWARD R: PEASE E. DAWSON ROGBRS PROF. BALFOUR STEWART
No notice having been given of any other nominations, these gentlemen
were declared elected. .
On the motion of the Hon. Percy Wyndham, M.P., Mr. Morell
Theobald, F.C.A., was elected, in accordance with Rule 28, as auditor for
1884, on behalf of the Membera.
Digitized by Coogle
