{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1845__southwell___true_origin_object_and_organization_of_the_christian_religion.pdf","mytitle":"True Origin Object And Organization Of The Christian Religion","mylang":"de"}
lliE
1-, It U E ()RIG IN, 0 B.J E CT,
ORGANIZATION
OF THE
CHRISTIAN RELIGION.
FRO~I THE FRENCH OF
F R A N C 0 I S D U P U I S.
BY
~\ UTUOR OF "TilE DIFFICULTIES OF CHRISTIANITY," ETC.
LONDON:
PRINTED AND PUDLISHED BY 'VJLLIAl\f FRIEND,
SO UTI-I LONDON HALL,
CORNER OF' 'VF.RRER STREET, BLACKFRIARS' ROAD.
'I'RAN SLATOR'S PREFACE.
WHEN a 1nere youth, and before tny opinions with
regard to Christianity assumed a definite or palpable
shape, I \vas fortunate enough to attract the notice of
:1 highly intelligent Swiss, who gave me a copy of the
abridged edition of Dupuis' great and justly cele-
brated \Vork, L'Origine de tous les Oultes (the Origin
of all the vVorships). One condition, and only one,
attached to the gift-whichwas that I should read and
endeavour to understand it. The condition was fairlv
.,
con1plied \Vith: I read it with avidity twice, the
second tilne with keener relish than the first. A
complete edition of that elaborate work did not fall in
my way till some six years since, when I found it by
the tnerest chance while looking for a very different
sort of book in the British Museum. After com-
paring the abridged with the unabridged edition, I
felt convinced that the former contained all that was
pithy and essential in the latter. ~1y dear little
edition became dearer to n1e than ever. One chapter
I particularly admired-that which professes to explain
the Nature, as well as demonstrate the Origin, of
Christianity. My impression then was, and time has
but deepened it, that nothing has been written about
B 2
.
JV
,
TR.Al'\.SLATOR !!J PREFAC£4~.
the Christian religion at all comparable to that chap-
ter. Complete in itself, full of historical truths and
the sage reflections they seem naturally to have called
forth, I have long thought that he 'vho devoted him-
self successfully to the task of rendering it into
English would confer a lasting benefit upon society.
Assuredly such a work is n1uch needed, as well by
the opponents as the advocates of Christianity.
Believing so, I resolved to encounter the difficulty
of translating and the risk of publishing it. lVIy chief
and most anxious desire has been to preserve through-
out the sense and spirit of my illustrious author.
Where a literal translation was grammatically and
idiomatically possible, such translation has been
attempted, hut in no case has the spirit or sense of the
original text been intentionally violated or departed
from. Readers 'vho seek in this 'vork the 'vit of
Voltaire or the eloquence of Volney \viii be disap-
pointed, for the style of Dupuis, though clear,
copious, bold, uncotnpromising, and original, is 11either
adorned by eloquence nor seasoned by wit. That it
loses much and gains nothing by my translation I an1
painfully sensible, but it is hoped our professional
critics will appreciate the difficulties with which I
have had to contend-difficulties which, however
nobly struggled against, can never be entirely over-
come.
..I, 1-1 11~ '1' R (J F~ <) It I (j I N,
ETC.
- - - --- ---
IF there be a fable which seems to escape the analysis
we have undertaken to make of religious poems and
sacred legends, without doubt, it is that of Christ, or the
legend 'vhich, under that name, has the Sun for its object.
The hatred that tho sectaries of that religion, ever anxious
to secure dotninancy for tlteir worship, have S\vorn to the
adorers of Nature, of the Sun, of the .1\foon, and of the
Stars, to the Greek and Roman divinities, of 'vhotn they
overthrew the ten1ples and the altars, \vould lead us to
suppose that thoh· religion did not forn1 part of the uni-
versal religion, if the errors of a people 'vith regard to the
real object of their \Vorship proved aught save their igno-
rance, and if the \VOrship of Hercules, of Bacchus, of Isis,
ceased to be the \Vorship of the Sun and of the 1\Ioon,
because that, in the opinion of the Greeks, llcl'cules and
Bacchus \Vere men placed in the rank of gods, and that,
in the opinion of the Egyptians, Isis was a bcnevolent
princess \vho had formerly reigned in Egypt.
The Rotnans ridiculed the divinities adored on the
banks of the Nile; they proscribed Anubis, Isis, and
Serapis, and yet they themselves adored l\fcrcury, Diana,
Ceres, and Pinto, that is to say, absolutely the same gods
under other ua1nes and other fortns: so grrat is the empire
of nan1cs on the tninds of the ignorant vulgar! Plato saicl.
6 Tll~ TRUE ORlGlN, OBJECT, .L'\H
that the Greeks, from the remotest antiquity, adored the
Sun, the 1\foon, the Stars; and Plato did not perceive that
down to his O\Vn time, they worshipped the very same
gods, under the names of Hercules, Apollo, Diana, Escu-
lapius, &c. Convinced of this truth-·well assured that
the opinion of a people with regard to their religion
proves nothing but their opinion, and does not at all affect
its nature, we \Yill carry our researches as far as to the
sanctuary of modern Rome, and we shall find evidence
abundantly conclusive that the Lan1b God \vho thet·e is
adored is the ancient Jupiter of the Romans, 'vho often
assumed the same form under the name of Ammon, that
is to say, the form of the Ram, or of the Lamb of spring;
that the vanquisher of the prince of d~ukness at Easter is
the same god 'vho, in the poem of the Dionysiacs,
triumphs over Typhon at the same epoch, and repairs
the evil that the chief of darkness had introduced into the
\Vorld under those forms of the serpent with \Vhich Typhon
was invested. We there shall meet, also, under the name
of Peter, the old Janus with his keys and his barque at
the head of the twelve divinities of the twelve months
whose altars are at his feet. We feel that we shall have
to conquer many prejudices, and that many \Vho would
accord to us that Bacchus and Hercules were nothing but
personifications of the Sun would not so readily admit
that the 'vorship of Ch1·ist is the \Vorship of the Sun.
But let readers reflect that the Greeks and the Romans
would \villingly have admitted it in face of the proofs we
are about to produce, \vhilst they would not so readily
have consented to ackno\vledge in Hercules and in Bacchus
merely heroes and princes, 'vho, by their exploits, had
merited the honour of being ranked among the gods. Men
are constantly on their guard against whatever is likely to
destroy those illusions and prejudices \vhich education,
example, and the habit of believing, have fortified.
Despite, therefore, all the force of proofs the most Inmi-
OltGANIZATION 01<~ TilE CHRISTIAN ltELIGION. 7
nous with which 've shall support our assertion, 've only
hope to convince the sage, unprejudiced, mind, the sincere
friend of truth, who is disposed to sacrifice his prejudices
the moment he is convinced they are prejudices. It is
true that 've write but for him; the rest are devoted to
ignorance and to the priests, who live at the expense of
their credulity, and conduct the1n as a vile flock.
We examine not if the Christian religion is a revealed
religion, because in this comparatively enlightened age,
belief in revealed ideas and their pretended revcalers is
confined to the silly or the stupid. Philosophy has so far
advanced as to render superfluous and absurd any dispute
'vith regard to the communication of divinity 'vith man
other than that n1ade by the light of reason through the
contemplation of Nature. "\Ve shall not even comn1ence
by exatnining if there ever really existed either a philoso-
pher or an impostor called Christ who may have estab-
lished the 1·eligion calied Christianity; for even if 've 'vent
so far as to admit the last point Christians 'vould by no
means be satisfied unless we acknowledged in Christ an
inspired man, a son of God, a God himself crucified for
our sins: yes, it is a God they need, a God 'vho forn1erly
ate upon the earth, and to-day is eaten. But we are ill
incline(l to carry our condescension thus far. As to those
'vho 'vould be content if we made of Christ simply a phi-
losopher, or a man, 'vithout attaching to him anything
diYine, 've invite them to examine that question, 'vhen 've
have analysed the 'vorship of the Christians, independently
of him or of those 'vho established it; 'vhether it owe its
institution to one or to many; 'vhether its origin date
from the reign of Augustus or of Tiberius, as the modern
legend semns to indicate, and as is vulgarly believed; or
whether it may be traced to a far higher antiquity, and
that it took its source in the :\Iithraic 'vorship established
in Persia, in Anncnia, in Cappadocia, and even at Ron1e,
as \VC think. The ilnportant point is \YCll ana thorongltly
8 THE 'fRUE ORIGIN, OBJECT, .:li\fJ
to kuo\v the nature of the Christian religion 'vherever it
originated or \vhoever may have been its author. But it
\Vill not be difficult for us to prove that it is still the wor-
ship of Nature, especially of the Sun, her first and 1nost
brilliant agent, and that the hero of the legends kno\vn
undet· the name of Gospel is the same hero 'vho has been
sung with much more genius in the ancient poems upon
Bacchus, upon Osiris, upon Hercules, upon Adonis, and
other solar personifications.
When we shall have demonstrated that the pretended
history of a God who is born of a virgin at the solstice of
winter, and rises from the dead at Easter, or at the equi-
nox of spring, after having descended into hell ; of a God
\vho leads 'vith him a train or retinue of twelve apostles,
the chief of whotn has all the attributes of Janus; of a
God who vanquishes the prince of darkness, causes n1an
to pass into the empire of light, and repairs the evils of
Nature, is nothing but a solar fable, precisely similar
to those we have already analysed, an examination of the
question, 'Vas there a man called Christ? will appear
as little hnportant as an examination of the question,
'Vas there a prince called Hercules? provided it is
clearly sho,vn that the being consecrated by a worship,
under the name of Christ, is the Sun, and that tl1e marvels
of the legend or the poem haYe that star for their object.
For then it will appear proved that Christians are nothing
but adorers of the Sun, and that their priests palm upon
us as divine the very same religion as 'vas preached by
the priests of Peru, \Vhom they so cruelly slaughtered~
Let us see, then, what are the bases on 'vhich repose the
dogmas of that religion.
The first base is the existence of a great disorder in-
troduced into the world by a serpent who has invited a
woman to gather forbidden fruit-a fault the tremendous
consequence of which has been the kno,vledge of evil that
man until then had not experienced, and 'vhich could only
ORG.\..~IZ.\TJON OF THB CHRISTIAN RELlGIU~. !I
be reznedied by a divine vanquisher of death and of the
prince of darkness. Behold the fundatnental dogma of
the Christian religion ! For in the opinion of Christians
the incarnation of Christ 'vas absolutely necessary in order
to a reparation or cure of the evil introduced into the
universe by the serpent who seduced the first woman and
the first man. Vain will be any attempt to separate these
t'vo dogmas the one ft·om the other : no sin-no repara-
tion ; no guilt on the part of Adam and Eve-no redemp-
tion on the part of Jesus Christ. But that fall of tho first
man, or that supposition of the double state of man at
first created by the good principle, enjoying all the good
that was spread abroad in the 'vorld, and afterwards
passing under the dominion of the bad principle, and to a
state of misery and degradation, f1·om which he could only
be drawn by the principle of light and goodness, is a cos-
mogonic fable, of nature exactly the same as those devised
by the Persian Magi-or Priests-with regard to Ormusd
· and Ahrimanes, or rather it is neither more nor less than a
copy of these. Let us consult their books. We have
already seen in the fourth chapter of this work ho'v the
lVIagi represented the world under the emblem of
an egg divided into t'velve parts, of which six be-
longed to Ormusd, or the creator of good and
of light, and the other six to Ahrimanes the author of
evil and of darkness; and ho\v the good and the evil of
nature resulted from the combined action of these t'vo
principles. We have also observed that the six portions
of the empire of the good principle comprehended the six
months 'vhich flow from the equinox of spring as far
as to that of autu1nn, and that the six portions of the
e1npire of the bad principle embrace the six 1nonths of
autumn and winter. It is thus that the time of the
annual revolution was poetically distributed between these
two chiefs; one of 'vhon1 organised existences, ripened
the fruits, &c., 'vhile the other destroyed the effects pro-
10 TIIB TRUE OH.IGJN, OBJECT, AND
duced by the first, and troubled that harmony of which
the earth and the sky exhibited the glorious spectacle
during the six 1nontl1s of spring and of summer. That
cosmogonic idea l1as been rendered by these l\fagi in
another and equally interesting manner. They supposed
that from time 'vithout bounds, or eternity, was born a
limited period 'vhich unceasingly renevved itself. They
divided that period into tvvelve thousand parts, 'vhich
in the style of allegory they called years. Six thousand
of these parts belonged to the good principle, and the other
six to the bad; and in order to guard against tnisappre-
ciation or mistake, they made each of these divisions (that
is to say, each thousand) answer to one of tho signs
through 'vhich the sun passes during each of the t'velve
months. The firstthousand, said they, answers to the Latnb,
the second to the Bull, the third to the T'vins, &c. It
is under these six first signs, or under the signs of the
six first tnonths of the equinoctial year, that they fixed the
reign and the beneficent action of the principle of light ;
and it is under the six othet· signs that they fixed the action
of the bad principle. It is at the seventh sign, ans,vering
to the Balance, or to the first of the signs of aututnn, the
season of fruits and winter, that they made to commence
the empire of darkness and of evil. Their reign lasted
till the return of the sun to the sign of the Lamb, which
answers to 1\farch and to Easter. Behold the basis of
their theological system ·which recognised the distribution
of the opposing forces of the t'vo principles to the
action of which man found himself submitted during each
year, or during each solar revolution. It is the tree of
good and evil near which Natnre had placed him. I-Icar
themselves speak :-
Time, says the author of the Boundesh, is twelve thou-
sand years; the thousands of God comprehend the Latnb,
the Dull, the Twins, the Crab, the Lion, and the Virgin,
'vhich tnakcs six thou~and vears. Substitute for the wnrrl
"'
oltG.\~1~.\'flO~ OF THE VlllU:STIA!\ H.BLHHUN. ll
yectr~ that of parts or small periods of titne, and for the
names of the signs those of the months, and then you will
have 1\Iarch, 1\.pt·il, 1\Iay, June, July, and August; that is
to say, the fine months of periodical vegetation. After the
thousands of God comes the Balance; then Ahrimanes runs
through the \VOrld. Afterwards comes the .Archer, or
Sagittarius, and Afrasiab causes evil, &c.
Substitute for the names of the other signs those of the
months September, October, November, Dece1nber, Janu-
4try, February, and you 'vill have the six periods affected
to the bad principle, and to its effects, which are the
frosts, the snows, the winds, and excessive rains. You
\vill perceive that it is in September, or in the season of
apples, that the evil genius commences to spread in the
\Vorld his fatal influence. It is then that man knows the
evil of 'vhich he was ignorant during the spring and
the sutnmer, in the fine climates of the northern hemi-
sphere.
Ilere we should look for the poetic idea sought to be ex-
pressed by the author of Genesis in the fable of the \VOn1an
'vho, seduced by a serpent, plucked the fatal apple which,
like the box of Pando1·a, was a source of evil to all man-
kind.
"The Supren1e," says the author of ~lodimel elTawarik,
" at :first created man and the bull in an elevated place,
'vhere they 1·emained for three thousand years \vithout evil.
These three comprehend the Lamb, the Bull, and the
T'vins; afterwards they remained upon the earth during
another three thousand years, without experience of pain
ot· contradiction; and these three answered to the Crab, to
the Lion, ancl to the Virgin." Let the reader observe well
the sixthousand designated above as the thousands of God,
and the signs affected to the empire of the good prin-
ciple. After that atthe seventh thousand ans\vering to the
Balance (that is to say September, according to our manner
of calculating'), evil appears, and man begins to labour.
12 TUg THUF. OHIGJ.:\, OU,JECT~ A~I>
In another part of the san1e costnogony \VC reaJ that
all the duration of the \vorld fron1 the connnencClneut to
the end has been fixed at t\velve thousand years; that man
in the superior part of the globe (that is to say in the nor-
thern and supet·ior hetnisphere) ren1ained \vithout evil
during three thousand years. lie was also 'vithout evil
during another three thousand years ; then appeared
Ahrimanes, who caused the evils and the combats in the
seventh thousand (that is to say, under the Balance upon
\vhich is placed the celestial serpent) : then \vas produced
the mixture of good and e-vil.
It was in effect there that the limits of the empire of the
t\vo principles each other touched; there \vas the point of
contact bet,veen good and evil, or, to speak in the allegori-
cal language of Genesis, it \Vas there that was planted the
tree of kno·wleclge of good and evil, the fruit of \vhich n1an
could not enjoy \Yithout itnmediately passing under the do-
tninion of the bad principle or Devil, to \vhon1 belonged the
signs of \vinter and of autumn. As fat· as to that moment
man had been the favoured of the skies, Ormusd had loaded
him 'vith benefits; but tl1at benevolent God had in Ahri-
mancs a ri,Tal and an enemy, \vho sought to poison his n1ost
precious gifts; and man became l1is victim at the mon1ent
of the retreat of the God of day to,vards the southern
clin1ates. Then the nights regained their empire, and the
tnurdcrous breath of Ahrimanes, under the for1n, or under
the ascendant, of the serpent of the constellations, deYasted
the fine gardens \vhere Ormusd had placed man. It
is there \Ve discover the theological idea that the author of
Genesis has taken fro1n tl1e cosmogony of the Persians, and
that he has adorned in his own peculiar 1nanner. Observe,
good reader, how Zoroaster, or the author of the Genesis
of the 1\Iagi, expresses himself \vhile paintingthe successive
action of the two principles in the \vorld.
Ormusd, says he, divine light and good principle, reveals
to Zoroaster, that he has gi\'en to tuan a, place of delights
ORG .\.~ lZATION OF TilE CIIH ISTL\.~ RL:LIOIOl\. I j
and of abundanee. If I had not giYen that place of
delights, none other could have gi,~en it. That place is
Eiren, 'vhich at the beginning \Yas n1ore beautiful than the
entire \Vo1·ld, 'vhich exists by my pow·er. Nothing ever
equalled the beauty of that place of delights that I had
created. I have acted first ; and then Petiare (.Ahrimanes,
or the bad principle), full of death, made in the river the
great adder, parent of \Vinter, \Vhich spreads cold in the
\Vater, in the earth, and in the.trees.
It results from the formal and significant terms of this
cos1nogony that the evil introduced into the world is
'vinter. Who \vill provide a remedy? The God of spring,
or the Sun, in his passage under the sign of the La1nb,
of \vhich the Christ of the Christians takes the forms.
For it is the La1nb who repairs the evils of the world,
and it is under that emblem he is represented in the monu-
ments of the first Christians.
It is evident that the evil here referred to is physical
and periodical evil \vhich the earth 1nay figuratively he
said to experience every year, in consequence of the retreat
of the SunJ source of light and life for all that inhabits
the surface of our globe. That cosmogony contains, then,
nothing 1nore than an allegorical picture of the phenomena
of Nature and the influence of the celestial signs. For
the Serpent, or the great adder, 'vho brings back winter,
is, as the Balance, one of the constellations placed upon the
limits \vhich separate the etnpire of the two principles,
that is to say, here U})On the equinox of autumn. Behold
the veritable Serpent, of 'vhich Ahrimanes assumed the
forms in the fable of the Magi, as in that of the Je""s, to
bring evil into the \Vorld ! Also, the Persians called that
malevolent genius the star serpent, and the serpent
celestial the serpent of Eve. It is in the sky that they
make Ahrimanes appear under the forn1 of a serpent.
What follo,vs from the Boundesh, or the Genesis of the
Persians, \Veil expresses the tnen.ning of the 1\1agi. '' Ah-
) ! THE 'l'HUF. URIGIN , OUJJ.'(;T~ A~LJ
rin1anes, 01' the principle of evil ancl of Jnrkur.ss-he
through \vhom comes evil into the \Vorhl-n1oves in the
sky under the form of a great adder, accompanied by
De,vs, or bad geniuses, 'vho seek but to destroy." And
further: "When the bad geniuses desolate the·\Vorld, and
that the star serpent makes himself a passage bet\veen the
sky and the earth; that is to say, mount.s upon the
horizon," &c.
But at what epoch of the annual revolution docs the
celestial serpent, united to the Sun, mount upon tl1e hori-
zon \Vith that star? It is when the Sun has arrived at the
Balance, upon which the constellation of the serpent ex-
tends itself; that is to say, at the seventh sign, setting
out fron1 the Lamb, or the sign under 'vl1ich the reader has
seen that the l\lagi fixed the commence1nent of the reign
of the bad principle and the introduction of evil into the
.
universe.
In Genesis, or the cosmogony of the ~Je\vs, our first
parent is described as holding converse \vith a serpent;
but every judicious reader feels tl1at descriptions of that
kind are perfectly agreeable to the genius of Orientals and
to the character of allegory. The foundation of the theo-
logical idea is absolutely the same. Je,vish \Vriters do not,
it is true, say that the serpent brings back 'vinter 'vhich
destroys the best gifts of nature; but they say that man,
discovering his own nakedness, felt a desire for clothing,
and that he \Vas reduced to the necessity of tilling the
earth-an operation which answel's to autumn. They do
not say that it was at the seventh sign, or under the seventh
sign, that that change in the state of man took place; but
they divide or distribute into six periods the action of the
good principle, and it is at the seventh that they mark his
repose or the cessation of his energy, as 'veil as the fall
of man in the season of fruits, and the introduction of evil
by the serpent, of which the Devil or the bad principle
assumed the forn1 in order to tempt our first parents.
ORG.Al\l~A1'10~ OJ.' TilE CHRl~TL\~ U.ELIGION. 15
They even fix the scene in those countries co1npriscd uuuer
the na1ne of Eiren, or Iran, and to\vards the sources of
the great riYer~ of the Euphrates, and of the Tigris ; only
instead of Eiren, the Hebre\v copyists have put Eden, the
two letters r and d in that language being very sin1ilar.
So1ne expressions concerning the division of time to be
found in the Genesis of the Hebrcws are not employed
in that of the Persians; but the Genesis of the ancient
Tuscans, conceived in the same terms as that of the lie-
brews, conse1·ves that allegorical account of the division
of time, during which is displayed the all-powerful action
of that soul of nature \Ve call Sun. The idea is thus ex-
pressed in the Genesis of the Tuscans :-
,, The divine architect of the Universe has etnployed
and consecrated twelve thousand years to the works he
has produced, and he has divided them into t\velve periods
of titne, distributed in the t\velve signs or houses of the
Sun."
" In the first thousand he has tnade the sky and earth."
" In the second the firmament that we call sky."
" In the third he made the sea, and the waters which are
under or above the earth."
" In the fourth he made tl1e great lights of Natu1·e:"
" In the fifth he 1nade the souls of birds, of reptiles, of
quadrupeds, of ani1nals \vho live in the air, upon the earth,
and atnid the waters."
"In the sixth thousand, he n1ade man.''
"It seetns," adds the author, "that the six first thousand
years having preceded the formation of n1an, the human
species oughttosubsist during the other six thousand years;
so that all the time necessary to the consummation of that
gre3,t \vork 1nay be included in a period of t'velvc thou-
d ''
san years.
'Ve l1ave seen that that period'vas a fundamental dogn1a
in the theology of the Persians, and that it \Vas distributed
in t'vo equal portions bet,veen the t'vo principles. This
16 Tll E 'l'H UE URlf: f.N, uB.J ECT, .\~ l)
\VOnl thousand has been replaced by that of days in the
Genesis of the Ilebre\Ys; but the nun1ber six is ahvays
conserved, as in that of the Tuscans and of the Persians.
The ancient Persians also, acco1·ding to Chardin, took the
months of the year for the six days of the 'veck that God
employed at the creation; fron1 \vhence it follo,vs that, in
the allegorical and tnystical style, the expressions a thou-
sand years or a thousand days, simply 1nean months, since
they we1·e 1nade to correspond with the signs of the
Zodiac, which are their natural measttl'e. As for the
rest, the Genesis of the Hebrews reproduces absolutely the
same expressions as that of the Tuscans. To them the
author of our cosn1ogony is indebted fot· many of his
expressions, as well as the distinction of the t\vo principles,
and that curious history of the very curious serpent 'vho,
under the nan1e of Ahrin1n.ncs, and star serpent, played so
conspicuous a part in the Genesis of the Persians. That
'vhich cotnbines tl10 leading incidents and most remarkable
features of both cosmogonies, that is to say, the Genesis
of the Persians, and 'vhich ftunishes the key of the t\vo
others, \Ve accept as the original. Readers \vill also find in
this work evidence clear and abundant that it is above all
from the religion of the l\fagi that Christians haYe derived
their Christianity.
We 'viii not seek then in the Genesis of the Ilcbre,vs
n1ore than we find in the Genesis of the 1\fagi. }..nd 'vc
shall sec, in the marvellous t·ecitals ascribed to l\loses, not
a history of the first n1an, but an allegorical fable
borrowed from the Persians, regarding the state of man,
submitted here belo\v to the domination of t'vo principles,
in other words, the grand mystery of the universal adnlin-
istration of the world, consecrated in the theology of all
peoples, t·etraced under all forms in the ancient initiations,
and taught by the legislators, by the philosophers, by the
poets, and the theologians, as 've are told in Plutarch.
All~gory 'vns t.hc Yell ,vith 'vhich sacred scionce enveloped
onfL\\f.ZATIO~ OP THE l'HRJS'l'IA~ HF.LIGION. 17
itself, in oruer, if \Ye·ulay believe Sanconiathon, to itnprint
respect for the iuitin.te<l or knowing on tl1e minds of
the uninitiated or ignorant.
The llebrc'v as \veil as the Chl"istian doctors admit that
the .books ascribed to 1\Ioscs are '\vritten in an allegorical
style; that they often enclose a sense totally different frotn
that which the surface or tnere letter presents ; and that
\Ve shall arrive at false ideas of God, if we look no deeper
than the bark \vhich covers the tree of sacred science. It
is above all in the first and second chapter of Genesis, that
they ackno\vledge a concealed and allegorical sense, of
'vhich, they say, we should take care not to give an inter-
pretation to the vulgar. 1\'faimonides, a celebrated and
very learned Rabbi, says,
" ,,...e should not understand that \vhich is written in
the book of creation in a literal sense, or entertain \vith
regard to it such ideas as are received by the con1mon
people; other,vise our ancient sages never 'vould have so
strongly recotntnended us to conceal the sense, and not to
raise the veil which conceals the truth 'vhich it contains.
Taken literally the book of Genesis gives ideas of God
altogether extravagant and absurd. 1Vhoever is able to
divine the true sense of that scripture ought carefully to
guard himself against divulging it. Our sages often
repeat to us that maxim; above all, they '\Vould have us
act upon it in respect of the intelligence of the 'vork of
the six days. It is possible that an individual, either by
himself or aided by others, may become enlightened
enough to divine the sense of it; but he ought to conceal
such kno,vledge, or if he speak of iti he should do so
obscurely, as I myself do, leaving the rest to be imagined
or divined by those who are able to understand me."
1\1aimonides adds that the genius for enigma was not
peculiar to 1\foses and the Jcwish doctors, but that it 'vas
common to all the sages of antiquity; and he is unques-
tionably right-at least so far as regard~ the Orientals.
('.
18 THE TRUE OH.IGI~, OBJECT, .l:\JJ
This opinion 'vith t·egard to the sacred books of the
llcbre,vs 'vas plainly enunciated by the Je,vish 'n·itcr
Philo. lie composed a Treatise concerning Allegories, in
\vhich he explained, in a figurative sense, the tree of life,
the waters of Paradise, and the other fictions of Genesis.
Although far from happy in his explanation, he clearly
perceived the absurdity of accepting those recitals accord-
ing to the letter. It is admitted, said Origen, by those
'vho are acquainted 'vith Scripture, that there all is hidden
beneath the veil of enignut. and parable. That doctor and
all his disciples regarded as n1ore especially allegorical the
history of Adam and the fable concerning a terrestrial
Paradise.
Augustine, in his City of God, frankly allo,vs that tnany
enlightened persons sa'v in the adventure of Eve and the
Serpent an allegorical fiction. The learned saint, after con-
sidering n1any explanations of that fiction, all of which
were drawn from or had reference to the principles of
tnorality, observes that a better explanation mightbe found;
adding, somewhat inconsistently, that he had no objection
to such explanation, pt·ovided al\vnys 've sa'v in the history
of Adatn and Eve a real as 'vell as fabulous history.
'Ve kno'v not ho'v Saint Augustine is n.blc to reconcile
fable 'vith history, an allegorical fiction 'vith a real fact.
If he holds to that reality, it is because a denial thereof
'vould involve still grosser contradictions; to 'vit, the con-
tradictory suppositions that the mission of Christ 'vas real
-that he actually redeemed us from sin committed by the
first man-and that, nevertheless, the t'vo first chapters of
Genesis are simply allegorical. As he desired us to believe
the redemption from evil by Christ 'vas historical fact, it
was essential l1o should sho'v that the adventure of Adatn,
of Eve, and of the Serpent, 'vas also historical fact, for tlu:--
one is intirnatcly connected 'vith the other.
The very great improbability of that rotnance plucked
from hint a precious confession-the confession that " ·e
CJUGA~lZATlO:"l OF 1'UE CIIRTSTI..\N· RELlOIO'\. lH
n1ust l.asc recourse to au allegori<'al explanation in order
to escape the grossest absurdities. ,,.,.c may justly say
\vith Beausobrc, that Augustine did, in effect, abandon the
Old Testan1cnt to the ~fanicheans, 'vho 'vroto false against
the three first chapters of Genesis. Beausobre thought it
impossible to conserv-e the literal sense 'vithout \vounding
piety, 'vithout attributing to God \Vl1at is un,vorthy
of him, and, therefore, it is absolutely necessary for the
honor of Moses and the credit of his history to have re-
course to allegory. What man of good sense, said Origen,
can persuade hitnsclf there was a first, a second~~ a thit·d
day, and that these days had each their eyening and their
tnorning, \vithout Sun, .l\Ioon, or Stars ? "\Yhat man is
~irnple enough to belieYe that God, perfonning the
functions of a. gardener, planted a g~u·den in the East ?
That the tree of life 'vas a veritable tree, bearing veritable
fruit., 'vhich had the property of conserving life, &c. Not
satisfied 'vith ridiculing the literal acceptation, Origen
co1npares the fable of the temptation of Adam to that of
the birth of Love, 'vhose father 'vas Porus, or Abnndancc,
and 'vhose 1nother \Vas Povertv. IIc n1a.iuta.ins that in
..
the Olcl Testan1ent there is much \vhich, if ta.ken lite1·ally,
cannot be true; in other 'vords, is but fiction 'vhich con-
ceals so1ne useful truth.
If the Christian Doctors, if the Fathers of the Church,
not,vithstanding their strong disposition all to believe,
found thcn1selves unable to digest so 1uany gross absurdities,
and kne'v not ho'v to ohtain the sense of these sacred
enigmas 'vithout the key ofallegory, it surely 'vill be per-
mitted that we, \vho live in an age \vhcn men feel the neces-
sity of reasoning rather than believing, attach to these
1narvellous histories the character 'vhich all antiquity has
given to religious dogtnas, and raise the veil of allegory
that conceals them. All appears absurd in the l\iosaic
history, 'vhen \Ye are resolved to accept it as a history of
facts or circumstances \vhi<'h actnally occnrrecl. Idens ~neh
c2
2U THE TRUE ORIGI~, OBJECT, Ar"\D
as that of a God, or supreme and eternal Cause, whu
assumes a bodily shape for the pleasure of promenading
in a garden; of a \von1an \vho converses ,,.,ith a serpent.,
listening to and receiving his counsels ; of a man and a
\Votnan organized to reproduce, yet destined to be
immortal, and beget through an infinity of ages other
beings hnn1ortal as themselves, who in their turn "·ould re-
produce, and be nourished by the fruits of a gardeu
'vhich was destined to be their d\velling-place for eternity;
of a plucked though forbidden apple 'vhich causes death
anrl itnprints the hereditary stain of a critne on many gPne-
rations of men wl1o had nothing \vhatever to do 'vith the
lar<·eny-crime not to be pardoned till men should have
comtnitted another infinitely more terrible, a Deicide, if
such crin1e he possihle : the 'von1an since that epoch con-
demned to bring forth in agony, as if the pains of child-
birth 'vere not a consequence of her organization or
suffered in comn1on 'vith all other animals who never
pat·took of the fatal apple: the serpent forced to cra,vl, as
if a reptile \vithont feet was likely to do anything else:
appear to us unwol'thy of credit. So many absurd n-ncl
foolish ideas con1bined in one or t\vo chapters of tha.t
lnat'Yellous hook can only be accepted as genuine history hy
men who l1ave extinguished the sacred flan1e of reason in
the n1ire of prejudice. If there be one ~n1ong our readers,
\Yhose courageous credulity is in a state to digest thein, \Ye
frankly and fe1·vently entreat hin1 to proceed no farther
with this \vork, but at once return to the study of Ton1
Tlntn1b, Bluebcard, the Lives of the Saints and the Oracles
of Balaatn's Ass. Philosophy is for men-children undci'-
sta.nd it not. Those who consent to ackno\vledge in Christ
a Redeemer God 'vhilc refusing to admit the literal truth
of t.he adventul'e of Adatn and Eve, and the Serpent, and
the Fall vthich rendered the redemption necessary, 've
invite to clear thctn~chres fro1n the reproach ofinconsistency.
If the fault is not t·eal \vhat in effect becon1es of the re-
,, .
ORG.\.NIZATlON OF THE CIIRISTI.AN RELIGJO~. 21
paration ? or if the facts occurred in a seu~e totally
ditrercnt fro1u that announced by the text of (1enesis,
'vhat confidence can \Ve reposein an author who confessedly
deceives, and 'vhose deception is the basis upon which rests
the entire superstructure of Christianity? 1f Christians
admit there is a concealed sense in the Genesis of the
Hebre,vs, they must have recourse to allegory. 'Vc deny
that the first page will bear a literal interpretation; aud it
is for us to shew that our idea is worthy of acceptation.
Let the reader judge our work ; 've demand nothing 1norc,
nothing less-for we are far fron1 desiring that he should
exa1nine our arguntcnts in a blindly credulous spirit. We
cite texts-,ve name planetary positions-it is for the
reader to verify them; 've draw inferences therefrom-it
is for the reader to rightly appreciate those inferences.
IIere an abridged recapitulation of our argutncnt 'viii be
useful.
According to the principles of the cosmogony or Genc~is
of the l\lagi ('vith which that of the Je·ws has n1ost affinity,
~ince both placed man in a garden of delights, 'vlwre a
serpent introduces evil), fro1n time 'vithout bounds \Vas
born a lin1ited pet·iod, divided into t'velve parts, six of
which belonged to light, six to darkness, six to the creative
and six to the destructive action, six to the good, and six
to the evil of Nature. That period includes the annual
revolution of the sky or of the 'vorlcl, which the 1\Iagi
represented by their n1ystic egg, divided into t'velve parts,
six of which belonged to t-he cl1ief of good and of light.,
and six to the chief of evil and of darkness. This idea is
figuratively expressed by a tree bearing twelve fruits which
give the kno,vledgc of good and evil, for thus it is painted
in the gospel of Eve; also by the phrase t"welve thousand
years, six of which arc called thousands of God, and six
thousands of the Devil. These expressions are emble-
tna.tic of the year, during \vhich man pas~cs tiUccetisively
"'UHler the eonflicting eu1pircs of light an<l darkness, under
THE 'l'H.UJ~ UHILilN, UHJEVT, .'\1\"lJ
that of the long uays aud under that of the long nights,
experiencing sotnctimes good, sometizues evil, 'vhich 'var or
combine 'vith each other, according as the Snn advances
to or recedes from our hemisphere ; according as he
organizes sublunary matter by vegetation or abandons it
to its principle of inertia, 'vhence follo,vs the disorganiza-
tion of bodies, the disorder that 'vinter causes in the ele-
tnents and upon the surface of the earth until spring
re-establishes universal harmony.
It is then that made fruitful by the action of ethereal
fire, inunortal and intelligent, and by the heat of the Sun
of the equinoctial Lamb, the earth becomes a. Paradise for
tnan. But 'vhen the star of day attains the Balance, and
the celestial Serpent, or signs of autumn, pass in the other
hetnisphere, then by his retreat the Sun delivers our region
to the rigours of winter, to impetuous 'vinds, and all the
ravages that the malevolent spirit of darkness exercises in
tho world. Then nothing remains for man but hope in
the return of the Sun to the signs of spring or to the I jamb,
first of those signs. Behold the Saviour, he 'vhon1
Christians no'v so ignorantly 'vorship !
Let us sec if the Go.d of the Christians, he that John
called the light 'vhich enligl1tens every tnan coming into
the 'vorld, has the character of the Solar Deity, adored by
all peoples, under a host of names, and 'vith different
attributes, and if Christian fable has the same foundation
as all the other solar fables 've have analysed. )Ve have
already said that t'vo principal epochs of the solar move-
ment have struck mankind. The nrst is that \Vherc the Sun,
after having appeared to abandon us, retakes his route
to,vards our region, and \vhere the day in its infancy
by successive growth approaches adolescence. The second
is the equinox of spring, \vhen that vigorous star dif-
fuses through Nature a fruitful heat after having passed
the fatnous passage, or equinoctial line 'vhich separates the
einpirc of light frotn the ctnpirc of darknc::)S: the heaven
UltGASIZ.\TIO~ OF THE CURISTIA~ H.ELIGIO!\. 23
ot Onnnsd fron1 the hell of .Ahrin1aues. It is 'vith these
t'vo epochs have been connected the principal fetes of the
adorers of that sta~ \vhich dispenses light and life to the
'vorld.
The Sun is not born, neither does it die, in reality;
it is in itself at all times brilliant and n1a.jestic; but as
regards the relation that the days it engenders have 'vith
the nights, there is in our world a progressive gradation
of increase and decrease. That phenomenon originated
many ingenious fictions, 'vith 'vhich ancient theologians
mystified the world. They have assimilated that genera-
tion, that periodic growth and diminution of the day, to
the different states of man, 'vho, after passing from infancy
to maturity, degenerates and declines, until finally he
arrives at the term of the eareer Nature has enabled him
to run. The God of day, personified in the sacred
allegories, 'vas, then, subn1itted to a purely human destiny;
he had his cradle and his totnb under a variety of names,
as for example, Ilercules, Bacchus, Osiris, and Christ. lie
the l{edecmer God was a.n infant at the solstice of \vintcr
\vhcn the days begin to lengthen or increase ; it is under
that fornt his irnagc 'vas exposed in the ancient ten1ples,
there to receive homage of his adorers-" Because then,"'
says Macrobius, "the day being the shortest, that God
sce1ns to be but a feeble infant. It is the child of the
mysteries, that child 'vhose image the Egyptians annually
dre\V from their sanctuaries on an appointed day.'~
It is that child of 'vhom the Egyptian Goddess declared
herself the n1other, in the fan1ous inscription where we
read these words: Tlte j1·uit tltat I ltave brought forth
is tlw Sun. It is that child, feeble and helpless, born in
obscurity at the middle of the night, of 'vhich we are told
by Plutarch a virgin Goddess 'vas delivered at the solstice
of 'vinter.
That God had his n1ysteries and his altars, and statues
represented him in the four ages of hu1nan life.
24 THE TllUE ORIGI!'i, uB,JECT. AND
The I~~gypt.ians are not the only people \vhu celebrated
at the solstice of winter the birth of the Sun, of that star
'vhich remedies all the evils of Nature. The Romans
fixed at that date their grand fete of the ue\v Sun and the
celebration of those solar sports kno\vn amongst us as
games of the Circus. They fixed it at the eighth day before
the kalends of January, or in other \Vords, on the same
day which answers to onr t\venty-fifth of December, or to
the birth of the Sun, adored under the nan1es of Mithra
and Christ. 'Ve find evidence of this fact in acalendar
printed in the Uranology of Father Pelau and at the end
of our great \Vork. There \Ve read: " On the eighth
before the kalends of January, natalis invicti, birth of the
invincible.', That invincible was Mithra or the Sun.
"We celebrate," said Julian the philosophe1·, "some days
before the first day of the year, magnificent spot·ts, in
honour of the Sun, to \Vhom \Vc give the title of invin-
cible. May I long have the happiness of celebrating then1,
oh Sun, King of the Universe, thou that from all eternity
the first God engendered," &c. That mode of expression
is Platonic, for Plato called the Sun, the Son of God.
The title of invincible, as appears from all the monun1ents
of the l\Iithriac religion, was given to ~lithra, or the Sun,
the great divinity of the Persians.
Thus l\fithra and Christ were born the satne day, and
that day \vas the birthday of the Sun. 1\lithra and the
Sun \Vere acknowledged to be the same, and of Christ it
is said tl1at he 'vas the light which enlightened every man
'vho came into the world. Mithra was born in a grotto,
Bacchus and Jupiter in a cave, and Christ in a stable.
That parallel was made by St. Justin himself. It \Vas in
a grotto \Ve are told that Christ reposed \vhcn tho Magi
came to adore hin1. But who were the Magi? The
adorers of JVIithra or of the Sun. What presents did tbey
carry to the ne\v-born Deity ? Three sorts of presents
cons~crated to the Sun by the \Vorship of the Arabs, of the
OIU.iA~IZATlU..'\ Ul• TilE ( HHJ STIA~ H.ELJGlO~. 2..')
Cha.ldeau~, and of the other Orientals. By \Vhat are
they informed of that birth? By astrology, their favourite
science. 'Vhat 'vere their dogmas ? They believed, said
Chardin, in the eternity of the first being, \Yhich is light.
'Vhat did they according to that fable ? The first duty
of their religion 'vhich commanded then1 to adore the
rising Sun. 'Yhat name did these 1\Iagi apply to Christ?
That of East. The East, said they, is l1is na1ne. It is
(tt the East and not in the East that they saw his in1age.
~Iorcover, the sphere of the l\Iagi and the Chaldeans re-
presented in the skies a ne,v-born cltild called Christ aut!
Jesus. lie \vas placed in the anus of the celestial Virgin,
or Virgin of the Signs. Eratosthenes speaks of her as
Isis, n1other of IIorus. To \vhat point of the heavens do
that ''irgin of the spheres and her infant ans,ver at the
hour of midnight on the twenty-fifth of Dccenlbcr, at the
very instant \vhen is born the God of the year, the nc'v
Sun, or Christ? To the eastern, to that point. where the
Sun rises on the first day.
It is a fact independent of all hypothesis, independent
of all the inferences \ve tnay \Vish to dra\V therefron1, that
on the 25th of Decetnber, precisely at the hour of Inid-
night, in those countries vvherc Christianity first appeared,
the celestial sign \Vhich mounted upon the horizon, and of
\vhich the ascendant presided at the opening of the ne'v
solar revolution, \vas the Virgin of the couste1la.tions. It
is a fact, that the God Sun, bot·n at the solstice of winter,
is reunited to it and envelops it with all his fires at the
epoch of our fete of _the Assumption or reunion of the
ntother and her son. It is also a fact that she passes out
or from the solar rays at the very moment when \ve cele-
brate his appearance in the world, or nativity. \Ve exa-
mine not 'vhat motive induced the fixing of those fetes; it
is sufficient for us to say here are three facts that no rea-
soning ca.n destroy, and from 'vhich an attentiYe observer,
who \veil ·kno,vs the genius of ancient theologians, may
2U 'l'H.E THL' E UH.Hil!", OHJI:t'T) ~\~H
draw grand couclul:5ions, unless he sec in all lhi~ pure
111atter of chance-a vie\v little likely to satisfy those \vho
arc on their guard against \Vhatever tends to the debili-
tation of reason, and the perpetuation of prejudice. At
least it is certain that tho san1e virgin, she who alone \vas
a.ble allegorically to become a mother, 'vithout ceasing to
be a Virgin,performs the three grand functions of the Virgin
~!other of Christ. It is, above all, her function as mother
"·e examine here. !fen naturally think that those wl1o
personified the Sun, and made it pass through the various
stages of human life-\vho supposed him the hero of mat·-
vellous adventures, chanted in poems or related in legcnds-
'vould not fail to dra'v his horoscope, the custom then being
to dra'v the horoscope of infants at the precise mon1cnt
of their birth. That custom prevailed, above all, 'vith the
Chaldcans and the nfagi. They celebrated that fete, under
the nan1e of dies natali1, or festival of the birth. But the
<;elestial Virgin 'vho preiided at the birth of the personified
God of Day 'vas reputed to be his mother, and fulfil the
prophecy of the astrologer \vho had said, " A Virgin will
conccive and bring forth a Son;" that is to say, she "'ill
bring forth the Sun God. From thence the pictures traced
on the sphere of the 1\fagi, of 'vhich Abulmar.ar has given
a. description, and of \Vhich Kircher, Selden, Roger Bacon,
Albert the Great, and n1any other learned authors lutve
spoken. 'Vc find, says Abuln1azar, in the first dccan, or
in the first ten degrees of the sign of the Virgin, according
to the most ancient traditions of the Persians, of the
Chaldeans, of the Egyptians, of Ilermcs, and of Escu-
lapius, a young girl called in the Persian tongue Seclenidos
of Darza'lna, a ntunc translated into Arabic by that of
Adrened~fa; that is to say, a Virgin, chaste, pure, innna-
culate, 'vith long flo,ving hair, of noble figure, :tgreeable
and expressive countenance. She holds in her hand hvo
cars of corn; ~he is seated upon a throne; she is suckling
and tending an infant, hy ::;otnc called Jesus, by others
UJt(L\:'\ J.Z.\ l'lU~ UF 'l'H E UUU:::iTL\.\ ltELlG 10~. 27
Chri~t. The Persian Sphere, published Ly Scaliger at the
cud of his notes concerning 1\Ia.uilius, describes the celes-
tiaJ virgin in similar terms; but it docs not name the infant
!:ihe is suckling.
In the National Library of },ranee 1nay be seen an
..Arabian manuscript, \vhich contains an illuminat.ed sketch
of the t'velve signs. That sketch represents also an infant
by the side of the holy Virgin, who appears very like the
Egyptian Isis. It is more than probable that the ancient
astrologers would have placed in the skies the infantinc
irnagc of the ne,v-born Sun, in the constellation which
presides at his second birth, and at that of the year at the
solstice of winter, from 'vhich originated a variety of
fictions about the God of Day conceived in the chaste
''·omb of a Virgin, since that constellation 'vas really the
'rirgin. This conclusion seems more natural than the con-
clusion of those ·who obstinately contend that there existed
a '\VOinan 'vho became JVIothcr 'vithout ceasing tobe ' rirgin,
and that the fruit of her womb is that Eternal Being 'vho
moves and 1·ulcs all Nature. Thus the Greeks said of their
GodJ Ran1, or Latnb, the fatnous Jupiter Amn1on, that he
\Vas educated by Themis, 'vhich word Themis is another
of the nan1es given to the Virgin of the Constellations.
She '\Vas also called Ceres, to 'vhich '\Vas added the epithet
IIoly ·v·irgin, and she 'vas the n1other of young Bacchus,
or the Sun in its infancy, '\vhosc personified image V't'as,
according to 1\facrobins, at the solstice of 'vinter exposed
in the Temples. That \Vriter's testhnony is confirn1cd by
the author of the Chronicle of Alexandria, 'vho expresses
hin1self in these terms: "The Egyptians have, up to our
time, consecrated the accouchemcnt of a Virgin, who 'vas
delivered of a Son that was exposed in a cradle to the
adoration of the people." King Ptolemy, having demanded
the reason of that custom, was told it 'vas an1ystcry taught
to their fathers by distinguished prophets. 'Vc know that
'vith the Egyptians, ]Jroplwt meant clticj ~f initiation.
28 l'llB 1'ltU.E liH lGIN, UllJ LVT, -'d' D
It is sa.id, though 've kuow not on \Vha.t authority, tl1at
the ancient Druids also rendered homage to a virgin with
this inscription- Vi111inipariturm, and that her statue"'as
in the territory of Chartres. It is certain that in the
monun1ents of 1.1ithra, or the Sun, of which the \VOrtihip
\Vas formerly established in Great Britain, 1night be seen
a female suckling an infant personification of the God of
Day. An English author, who published a Dissertation
on that monutnent, details all the circumstances neces~ary
to establish actual relations between festivals in honour of
the birth of Christ and those in honour of the birth of
:P.fithra. That author, tnore pious than philosophical,
boldly assutnes the unreality of those festivals, the inlagi-
nation of which he ascribes to certain prophecies concern-
ing the birth of Christ. lie properly observes that the
1\lithriac worship \vas established throughout the Rotnau
Etnpire, as \veil as in Gaul and in Great Britain. lie
cites, moreover, the testimony of Saint Jerome, who cotn-
plains that the Pagans celebrated the fetes or festivals
of the rising Sun, on the same spot in Bethlehrn1 'vhere
Christ was born. According to us the \vorship of Christ
is but the \Vorship of Mithra under a different nan1c, as
\Ve have detnonstrated in our analysis of the fable of
Adonis and other solar personifications.
Having sho,vn the astronomical basis on which rests belief
in an incarnate Sun, born of a Virgin under the natne of
Christ, \Ve proceed to exan1ine the origin of that fable,
according to \vhich Christ died, then suffered resurrection,
or \vas raised from the dead at the equinox of Spring,
under the form of the Paschal Lamb.
The Sun, that glorious lu1ninary, \vhich alone can
rcdeetn us from the evils caused by 'vinter, said in the
ancient sacerdotal fictions concerning the Sun, to be
born at the 'vinter solstice, seems to ren1ain three n1onths
jn the inferior bign~, in the regions affected to cYil ancl
rlarkne&
s: there t(\ be subrnitted to the power of their chief..
OHGA~IZA'l'ION OF THE CflfUSTL\;\ fUo! l*tGIO~. 2!J
before achiering that equinox of spring tl1e passing of
'"hich secures his trintnph over darkness, mtd renc,vs the
fL1ce of nature. !laving thus personified solar action, the
priests gave life to their personification, describing it as a
man exposed to all the infirmities of mortal life, until able
to resume the rights of divinity, by triun1phing over
darkness. The genius of allegory composed a life of this
Redeen1er God, and imagined for him adventures agreeable
to his character, and to the end proposed in the mystery
of initiations. It is thus that Esop wishing to paint a
moving picture of those strong and unjust men, who
oppress the weak, has brought into play certain anin1als
to 'vhom he has given opposing characters, and ascribed
an action, 'vhich though of course in1aginary \veil ex-
presses the purpose and n1oral of his apologue. Thus the
Ji~gyptians invented the fable about Osiris or of the bene-
ficent Sun, who ran through Nature in order everY'vhere to
scatter those innu1nerable benefits of 'vhich he is the
source, and (in opposition to him) Typhon or personified
principle of darkness, who thwarts at every turn the good
principle, and ultimately consigns him to death. Upon
that sin1plc idea they built up the fable of Osiris and of
Typhon, in 'vhich the former is historically presented to
ns as n legitimate king, and the other as t'he tyrant of
Egypt. Desides, the wrecks of sacerdotal fictions con-
served in the pages of Diodorus and Plutarch, 've have
a Life of Osiris and of Typhon, composed by Bishop
Synesius-for in his time Bishops condescended to fabri-
cate legends. In that fabulous Life the adventures, the
characters and the portraits of the hvo principles of
Egyptian theology were traced from imagination, but still
in harmony with the idea of the part that each of them
should play in order to express the action of principles
eternally opposing and opposed. The Persians had also
their history of Ormusd and of Ahrimanes, 'vhich history
contained an animated recital of their combats and the
30 'l'llg THUE URJGIX. OH.JECT•.\.\IJ
great victories achieYed hy G o<l, or the good princiJ.>ll',
oYer the Devil, or bad principle. The Greeks had a Life
of I rercul es and of nacclnts, \Vhich enclosed the llistory of
their exploits, also the benefits they had spread OYel· all the
earth, and these recitals were very ingenious and learned
poems. The history of Christ, on the contrary, is a
tedious, wearying legend, marked by that dryness and
sadness 'vhich characterize the legends of the Brahmins,
where we read of nothing but penitents and devotees and
holy tnen who live in contetnplation. Their God Vishnou,
incarnated in Chrishna, has much in common with Christ..
'Ve find certain tricks and doings of the little Chrishna.,
amazingly similar to those ascribed to Christ in the
Gospel of the Infancy. Chrishna like Christ rose fron1
the dead.
The :rtlagi had also a legend concerning the chief of their
religion. According to that legend, prodigies announced
his birth. 'Yhile an infant he 'vas exposed to great dan-
gers, and obliged to fly into Persia, as was Christ into
.Egypt. Like Chri~t he 'vas pursued by a po,verful enemy
'vho sought to destroy him. By an angel Chrishna 'va~
transported to heaYen, \vhence he brought the book of
salvation. Like Christ he was tentpted by the Devil,
'vho endeavoured to seduce him by all sorts of n1agnificent
promises. Chrishna w·as calumniated and persecuted hy
the Priests, as 'vas Christ by the rharisees. To prove the
dogmas of his book and confirm the divinity of his mis-
sion he 'vorked stupendous miracles. The reader 'viii
perceive fron1 this parallel tl1at tllC authors of the legend
of Christ, 'vho pretend that the ~lagi went to his e1·adle,
conducted by the fatnous star, ·whose appearance it 'vas
said Zoroaster, the chief of their 1·eligion, had predicted,
'vould not have failed to introduce in their legend n1auy
traits 'vhich belong to the Saviour in that Pm·sinn 1·eligion,
of \vhich Christianity is but a branch, aud ·with 'vhich it
exhibits the n1ost cmnplcte confonnit.y, as "·c shall lw.vf'
u HG ~\'\IZ .\.riO~ OF TilE t'HHl.S'ffAS HELIGIO:\ . ;;l
occasiou clearly to prove '\vhcn spea.ldng of the 1\lithria~
religion, or of tllC Sun 1\Iithra, the grand Divinity of the
Persians.
The authors of Christianity had not sufficient either of
instruction or genius to 'vrite poems such as those sung by
the ancients in honour of Ifercules, of Theseus, of Jason,
{)f Bacchus, and others. Besides, the thread of astro-
nomical kno,vledge 'vas lost; and those ".ho composed
our holy legend had no better material than the 'vrecks of
.ancient fictions no longer comprehended. Add to all this
that the end of those ,vho acted as chiefs of initiation to
the mysteries of Christ 'vas an end purely moral, and that
they desired less to paint heroic vanquishers of giants or
other natural evils than a patient, benevolent, Godlike
Inan, come upon the earth to preach, and to 1nanifest by
his example the virtues of 'vhich the practice 'vas taught
to tl1e initiated in his mysteries, 'vhich "·ere those of lif{·
and light eternal. In that sense l1e 'vas made to net, to
preach, and to con1n1and the austere practices of the
Essenes-a sect the same in all important particulars as the
Brahtnins and devotees of India. lie had his disciples, as
had Sommona !Codon, of the Siamese-a God born of a
Virgin through the action of the Sun ; and the nurnber of
his Apostlcs suggests that grand duodecimal division which
characterizes all religions of 'vhich the Sun is the hero.
But his legend 'vas more n1arYellous than amusing, and
by no means cham1ed or satisfied eYen ignorant and
credulous ,Je,vs. As the author of this sacred tale pre-
tended that its hero 'vas born atnong the Hebre,vs, lH~
submits him and his mother to the religious practices of
those people. lie 'vas, like every other J c'vish child, cir-
cumcised on the cightl1 day ; like eYery other J e·wish
'voman, his tnother 'vas obliged to present herself at the
Temple with a vie'v to purification. The enlightened 'vi11
feel all that to follo'v naturally frotn the first idea, or frotn
32 THE THUF. OnJGIN, Oll.lF.C 'T, A~H
that \Yhich picture~ th(\ Son of God as born of a Virgin,
to preach, to die, and to rise from the dead. Clearly re-
surrection is impossible 'vhcre there is no death. Frotn
the n1o1nent of personifying or HU:\IA~IZING the Sun, his
"..orshippcrs 1nade hin1 pass by degrees from infancy to
maturity; and so early 'vas his acquisition of kno,vledge
that at the age of t'velve he astonished all the doctors.
The moral they desired to inculcate was conveyed by pre-
cept in his discourses, or by example in his actions. They
ascribed to hhn miraculous po,vers, and found fanatics
ready to proclaim themselves eyc,vitncsses of their exercise.
lHiracles are never \Vanting 'vhere the minds of men
are disposed to believe in them. People sa,v, or thought
they saw, many miracles at the tomb of the blessed Paris,
in this enlightened age, in the 1nidst of an itntnense popu-
lation, made up in part of sensible critics, but in much
larger part of enthusiasts and kna.ves. -~11 chiefs of re-
ligion are said to have 'vorked miracles. Forty thousand
disciples every""y
herc declared that they had witnessed
the nliracles of their nfan-G-od Fo. Odin \VOrked miracles
for the conversion or edification of Scandinavians; 11e
raised the dead; he descended into hell; and be bene-
volently cinployod hin1self in the baptism of infants.
The n1arvcllous is the grand resource of sacerdotal im-
posture ; nothing is so strongly believed as that \vhich is
incredible. Bishop Synesins said miracles \Yore cl1eap for
a people at any price, as 'vithout miracles they could not
be kept religiously in order. The entire life of Christ has
heen composed in that spirit. Its fabricators have con-
nccterl fictitious events, not only with kno,vn places, a.s did
the anci<.~nt poets in their fables concerning Hercules,
Bacclnts, Osiris, and other solar personifications ; but also
to knowu natues and a kno,vn epoch, such as the age of
Augustus, of Tiberius, of Pontius Pilate, &c.; 'vhich
proves not the real existence of Christ, but merely that the
o\UiA\ 1/.ATlu\ Uf.' 'l'ti~ lliltiSTL\ \ lU\ LlOlU'i . :{:)
sacerdotal fiction was invented after that epoch. lli::;tory
acquaints us \Vith about fifty evangelists or lives of Christ,
and so n1any \Vere the tales told concerning him, that im-
mense volumes could not contain them, according to the
expression of one of the authors of the legend. The
genius of Christian mysticism opened for itself a vast
career; but all are agreed upon two fundamental points,
na1nely, the incarnation, which we have already explained.,
and the death and resurrection, that 've will proceed to
show has reference to the Sun, and is really nothing more
than the repetition of a tragical adventure shado,ved forth
in all the anc~ent mysteries, and described in all the songs
and all the legends of the Sun-worshippe1·s, 'vho practised
their religions under a variety of natnes.
Let us here recal 'vhat we have proved in a fort ner part
of this 'vork-the itnportant fact, that, 'vhcthe1· in hi~
birth or in his incarnation in ~~e 'VOinb of a virgi1r, ChriJt
has all the characteristics of the G ~ci, Sun; that t h~ bi':tl1
<lf " our Saviour" is said to have hapt?~~ed at the prr cise
mon1cnt \vhen the·ancients celebrated the L:.\·t.h of thf, fnn
n.nd of Mithra.; and that it happened under tht,. rtscanr.ant
of the constellation 'vhich in the sphere of the ~1agi car-
ries an infant called Jesus. "'\Ve now propose to, prove
that this infant deity has, moreover, all the characteristics
of the Sun-God in his resurrection; as well with regard to
the time \vhen that event is said to have happened as
'vith regard to the form under 'vhich Christ displayed
himself in his triutnph.
In terminating our explanation of the pretended fall of
zna.n, and of the fable according to which a serpent intro-
duced evil into the world, 've declared that that evil was
of a nature to be remedied by the Sun of Spring, and
only by him. 'fhe re1nedy or reparation operated by
Christ ought, th~n, to manifest itself at that period.
Now it is precisely at the equinox of spring that Christ
tritnnphs, and that he redeems the hnma.n kin.l in the
I>
o4 TilE TRUE UHIGlN, OBJECT, ANLJ
Christian history called Life of Christ. It is precisely
'vith tl1at annual epoch are connected those festivals which
have for their object the celebration of that great event;
for the Easter of the Christians, as that of the Jews, is
necessarily fixed at the full moon of the equinox of spring;
that is to say, at the precise moment of the year when the
Sun achieves the famous passage which separates the
empire of the God of Light from that of the Prince of
Darkness; and when reappears in our climates the glo-
rious star which gives light and life to all Nature. The
Jews and the Christians call it the Passover; for it is then
that the God-Sun, or the Lord of Nature, passes toward
us, to distribute those benefits of which the serpent of
darkness and of autumn had deprived us during the win-
ter. Behold there the fine Apollo, full of all the forces of
youtl1, who triumphs over the serpent Python. It is the
festival of the Lord, since to the Sun '\vas given that re-
spectable title. Adonis '\Vas the name of that star in the
Eastern fable concerning .Adonis, the solar deity, '\vho, like
Christ, 'vent out victorious from tho tomb. In the conse-
cration of the seven days to the seven planets, the day of
the Sun, or Sunday, is called the Lord's day, or day of tl1e
Lord. It precedes 1\fonday, or day of the 1\loon, and fol-
lows Saturday, or the day of Saturn-two planets 'vl1ich
<?ccupy the extremes of the n1usical scale, of '\vhich the
Sun is the centre, and forms also the fourth. Thus tl1e
term Lord is applicable to the Sun under all solar
relations.
The fete or festival of the passage, or passover, 'vas
originallyfixed at the t'\venty-fifth of March ; ihat js to
say, exactly three months after the fe¥ival of tbc birth,
which is also the birth of the Sun. It was then that that
star, retaking its creative force and all jts fruitful activity,
appeared to establish a ne'v order of things, to create, so
to speak, a ne'v universe, from the \Vreck of the ancient
\vorld, and to 1nake, by Jneans of the equinoctial J.Jatnb,
OltGANIZATIO~ OF TilE CHIUSTI.A~ HELIHIU!\. 3 :)
the human race pass from darkness an<ltniscry into light
and happiness.
All these mystical ideas are developed by Cedrenus:-
'' The first day of the first month," says that historian,
"is first ofthe month Nisan, 'vhich answers to the twenty-
fifth of March of the Romans, and to the month Phamenot
of the Egyptians. On that day Gabriel saluted Mary, in
order to make her conceive the Saviour. It was on the
same day that, according to the theology of Egypt, Osiris
fecundated the 1\ioon. It was on the same dav that our
.,
Saviour God, after having terminated his career, rose fronl-
the dead-a feat commemorated by our fathers, who called
it the passover or passage of the Lord. It was on the
same day that our ancient theologians fixed, also, his
return or second coming."
The same Cedrenus makes Christ die on the twenty-
third of 1\Iarch, and suffer 1·esurrection on the t'venty-
fifth. " From thence," says he, '' can1e the usage in the
church of celebrating Easter on the t\venty-fifth of
March."
Ancient usage being to PERSONIFY solar appearances and
solar action, in sacred legends, people mourned the Sun
for some days as dead, and on the t\venty-fifth of 1\Iarch
rejoiced at his resurrection. It is l\1acrobius 'vho tells us
this; tl1e same Macrobius froi_U whom 've learn that, at the
solstice of 'vinter, the ancient priests described that san1e
Solar Deity under the form of a new-born child, and at the
spring as a young man, strong, beautiful and vigorous.
~facrobius adds, that these celebrations of the passion or
of the death and of the resurrection of the God of Day,
fixed at the equinox of spring, were recognised by all the
sectaries of the religion of the Sun. "\Vith the Egyp-
tians, it was the death and the resurrection of Osiris; 'vith
the Phenicians, it was the death and the resurrection of
Adonis; 'vith the Phrygians, the tragical adventures of
Atys. In all religions the God-Sun, like Christ, suffered,
D2
'l'HE l'HUE uHH.a~, OUJECT, .\.\IJ
and like hitn triumphed over death; and that, too, al pre-
cisely the same epoch of the Sun's apparent annual revo-
lution. It is for parties who contend that Christ 'vas
something else than a n1ere personification of the Sun to ex-
plain these singular coincidences. 'Ve, who cannot ascribe
them tomere chance, frankly declareourbeliefthat the pas-
sion and theresurrectionofChrist, celebratedat Easter, make
part of the ancient religion of the Sun, or of the worship
of universal Nature.
It is, above all, in the religion of 1\lithra, or the Solar
Deity adored under that name by the Magi, 've find the
most striking resemblance to the death and the resurrec-
tion of Christ, and to the mysteries of the Christians.
Mithra, born also on the t'venty-fifth December, as Christ,
like him died, and had his sepulchre, upon which fio,ved
the tears of his disciples. The priests during the night
carried his image to a tomb prepared for its reception,
where, like the Phcnician Adonis, it "vas stretched upon a
litter. That pomp was rendered lugubrious by the funeral
chants and the groanings of the priests, who devoted some
time to the expression of a simulated grief. They lighted
the &acred torch, and after anointing or covering with per-
fumes the image, one of them gravely pronounced these
words: '' Take comfort, sacred flock of the initiated. Your
God is resuscitated; his pains and sufferings 'viii obtain
your salvation." "Wherefot·e," asks the Christian writer
from whom 've obtain these details, "'vhereforeexhort these
unfortunates to rejoice? "\Vherefore deceive them by false
promises? The death of your God is known; his new life
is not proved. It is an idol that you bury-it is an idol
that you draw from the tomb. I demand," continues
Firmicus, " to be informed who has seen your God with
horns like an ox, on account of whose death you are so
terribly affi.icted ?" And we, in our turn, ask to be in-
formed by credulous Christians, such as Firmicus, who
afllict themselYes about the death of the Lamb-God,
ORG..\.~lZXflO~ UF THE <.!UR1ST1Aii ltELll.lO!\. 37
~laughtered that 'vith his blood tnay be washed out the
sins of the world, 'vho has seen their God in the form of
a Lamb, 'vhose death and resurrection they so triumphantly
celebrate?
Are they ignorant that t\VO thousand years before the
Christian era-epoch to which we may trace back the
religion of the Persians and the 'vorship Mithraic of the
Bull of 1\fithra-the Sun achieved the equinoctial passage
under the sign of the Bull; and that it is in consequence
of the effect of the precession of the equinoxes that in
our day ~e achieves it under the sign of the Lamb ?
that nothing has changed but celestial form and the name,
the worship being absolutely the same ? It seems also
that Firmicus, in attacking the ancient religions, en-
deavoured to harmonise all those traits of resemblance
that their mvsteries had in common 'vith those of the
.,
Christians. He attaches himself n1ore particularly to the
initiation 1\'lithraic, \vhich he successfully parallels with
the initiation Christian. It is true he explains the
wonderful conformity of these t\vo religions by saying,
after Tertullian and Saint Justin, that long before the
existence of Christians the Devil employed himself, very
much to his own satisfaction, in causing his adorel's to
copy their, the .future Christians' fut'ltre n1ysteries and
ceremonies. Excellent reasons for Christians, such as
many of those who now claim the title, but a pitiable
offering indeed to men of good sense. For ourselves, who
believe not in the Devil, and, of course, are not, like
them, in his secrets, \Ve declare that the religion of
Christ being, like every other religion, founded on Sun-
\VOrship, has conserved the sa1ne dogmas, the sante prac-
tices, the same 1nysteries (in form only more or less mo-
dified)-that all has been con1mon, because the God was
so ; that the accessories only have been difl'erent, the
base being absolutely the sa1ne. The most ancient apo-
logists of Christianity allowed that the ~lithraic religion
:38 THB TU.UE ORH.il.N, UHJE<JT, A:\D
had its sacratnents, its baptism, its penitence, its euchat·bt,
and consecration by virtue of certain mystical words ; that
the novitiates of that religion were put to severer, far
more rigorous, tests than the novitiates of Christianity ;
that the initiated or faithful made on their foreheads a
sacred sign; that they admitted also the dogma of the
resurrection ; that they had their virgins and the law of
continence; finally, that with them prevailed all those
customs since adopted by Christians. It is true that
Tertullian again calls the Devil to his aid; finding it
difficult, without such assistance, to explain a resemblance
so striking. But as, without the intervention of the
Devil, it is easy to perceive that when t'vo religions
resemble each other so perfectly, the more ancient is the
mother and the more youthful is the daughter, 've con-
clude, since the worship of l\lithra is infinitely 1nore
ancient than that of Christ, and his ceremonies date back
to a lJeriod long anterior to those of the Christians,
that the Christians are incontestably either the sectaries
or copyists of the religion of the 1\'Iagi.
I will add, 'vith the learned Hyde, that the l'>ersians
held a theory \vith regard to angels mot·e complete than
that of the Jews and of the Cht·istians ; that they ad-
nlitted the distinction between angels-some being angels
of light, some angels of darkness; that they '\Vere ac-
quainted with the recital of their co1nbats, and also 'vith
the names of angels 'vho have passed into our religion;
that they baptised their children and on them imposed
a name ; that they had the fiction concerning Paradise
and I-Iell, to be found equally 'vith the Greeks, the Romans,
and many other peoples; that they had a sacerdotal
order and all the constitution ecclesiastic of the Christians,
'vhich, according to Hyde, existed among them more
than three thousand years ago. But I 'vill not say
'vith him, that we should see in that resemblance the
'vork of Providence, 'vhich has wished that tho Persians
OltG.ANIZA'l'IO~ 01:<, THE CHRlSTlAN RBLlOlON. 39
n1ight, by anticipation, and in spirit prophetic, do those
things and think those thoughts after\vards to be done and
thought by Christians. If Hyde, born in an island 'vhere
superstition is found almost constantly side by side 'vith
philosophy, and forms with it a tnonstrous alliance, has
not been moved by the fear of offending the prejudices of
his age to thus disguise the opinion which a resemblance
so striking should beget in bim, \ve are bound to say that
knowledge is not always good sense, and by no means of
equal value. I will allow, then, with IIyde, that the two
religions resemble each other in abnost every point ; but I
must conclude that they at·e, in reality, one, or, at least,
that they are nothing else than t'vo sects of tl1e ancient
religion of the Orientals, adorers of the Sun, and that
their institutions, as well as their principal dogmas,
have a common origin. It is still the Sun 'vhich is the
God of that religion, whether he be called Christ, Mithra,
Osiris, Adonis, Bacchus, Atys, or any other sacerdotal
name. Let us pass no\v to an examination of the forms
\Vhich characterise the God-Sun of the Christians in his
triun1ph.
That celestial sign under \vhich passed the sun at the
moment when he, as it ·were, commences to lead back the
long days of sun1mer to our hemisphere; \vhen Christi-
anity \vas kno,vn to the 1\Test, and more than fifteen
centuries before ; \vas the Ram, that the Persians, in their
cosn1ogony called the Latnb, as before sho,vn. It was
the sign of the exaltation of the Sun in the systcn1 of the
astrologers, and the1·e ancient Sabeisn1 had fixed its most
important comtnetnorative festival. It \vas then the re-
turn of the Sun to the celestial IAunb, 'vhich every year
regenerated nature. Behold the for1n assu1ned in its
triumph by that majestic star-that benevolent God,
Saviour of 1\Ien ! Behold the Lamb 'Who takes upon kiu~­
self the sins of t/u; ·world.'
In t.he same 'vay that Ahrhnanes, or the Prince of
TilE 'l'RUJ<; Ollila lN, UD'JEV1', A~ 0
Darkness, borrowed the forms of the constellation \vhich,
in autumn, presides over the long nights of \Vintcr, his
vanquisher, the God of Light, assumes in spring those
forms of the celestial sign under 'vhich he triumphs. It
is a consequence flowing naturally from the principles we
have adopted in our explanation of the fable regarding
the introduction of evil by the serpent. We kno,v, besides,
that the genius of the adorers of the Sun inclined thetn to
picture that star under the forms and with the attributes
of those celestial signs with which each successive mouth
it united itself; hence the many metamorpl1oses of Jupiter
with the Greeks, and of Vichnou \vith the Indians. Thus
they pictured a young man condncting a ram, or carrying
a ram upon his shoulder, or arming his forehead 'vith the
horns of that animal. It is under this last form the cele-
brated ,Jupiter Ammon manifests hin1self. Christ also
took the name and for1n of Lamb ; and that animal is
the symbolic expression by which he is designated. People
say not the Sun of the Lamb, but simply the Lamb.
Neither did they say the Sun of the Lion or of I-lercules,
but simply the Lion. These are but different expressions
of the same idea, and a varied expression of the same
celestial anin1al in symbolic pictures of the Sun of Spring.
That tern1 I.Jainb, applied with so much e1nphasis to
Christ, or the God of Light in his equinoctial triumph,
may be found oft repeated in the sacred books of the
Christians, but, above all, in their book of initiation
kno,vn as the .Apocalypse. The faithful or initiated are
there qualified to beco1ne disciples of the Lamb. In that
book 've find a representation of the Lamb slaughtered in
the midst of four animals, which are also in the constel._
lations, and which are placed at the four cardinal points
of the sphere. It is before the Latnb that the genii of the
twenty-four hours, emblematically designated as old men,
prostrate themselves. It is, 've a.re told, the slaughtered
Lamb who is worthy t.o receive all po,ver, diYinity.
Orl l • :\.\J% ,\1'10.\ (Jf 111£ ( lJUI~Tl.\~ Hl:l.IUIU~ . 41
'visdon1, force, honour, glory, and blessedness. It is tha
Lan1b who opens the book of fatality, designated under
the en1blem of a book closed 'vith seven seals.
All the nations of the earth come to place themselves
before the throne and before the Lamb. They are arrayed
in \vhite; they have branches of palm in their hands, and
sing 'vith a loud voice, " Glory to God, who is seated on
the throne." The celestial Lamb, or Ram, it should be
remembered, is the sign of the exaltation of the Sun-God,
\vhich victorious star seems to be carried up,vard in its
triumph. It would be superfluous to multiply l1ere the
passages in which this mystical word Lamb is repeated.
Everywhere we tneet 'vith the God of Light under the
name of Lamb; it 'vas, in short, the grand divinity, to
",.hicl1 the faithful consecrated then1selves in the initiation
of the Christians. The mysteries of Christ are, then,
simply the mysteries of the God-Sun in his equinoctial
triumph, wl1ere he assumes the forms of the first sign, or
those of the celestial Lamb. Formerly a figure of the
Lamb was the character or seal with which were marked
the initiated of the Christian sect. An image symbolic of
the La1nb was hung round the neck of their children. AB
the world knows the famous Agnus Dei.
.The most ancient representation of the God of the
Christians 'vas the figure of a Lamb, sometimes attached
to a vase reddened with his blood, sometimes lying do,vn
at the foot of a cross. That symbol subsisted as late as
the year 620. The sixth synod of Constantinople or-
dained that instead of the ancient symbol, which \Vas
the Lamb, should be represented a man fastened upon a
cross; which ordination was confirmed by the first Pope
Adrian. At this day the Lamb plays a conspicuous part
in the hands of our priests. It is represented couchant,
partly upon a cross, partly upon the book of fatality,
\vhich is closed 'vith seYen seals. The nun1bcr seven is
that of the scren spheres, of 'vhich the Sun is the soul,
42 THE THUE ORIGI:\, OllJECT, A~l>
and of \vhich the moven1ent or revolution calculates front
the point of Aries, or Lamb equinoctial.
All ancient adorers of the Sun celebrated the victory
obtained by the Lamb over the Prince of Darkness. The
priests arrayed themselves in white-a colour affected to
Ormusd, or God of Light; they consecrated the elements;
in the temples, as in Nature, all \Vas renewed. It is thus
that the Persians, in their festival co1nmemorative of tl1e
entrance of spring into the constellation Aries, or Lamb,
chanted the rene\val of all things, and the ne\v day of tho
new month of the new year of the new time, \vhich
renews whatever is born of tilue. They had also, a few
days before, their Festival of the Cross, which some days
after was followed by that of victory.
It 'vas at the same epoch that their ancient Perseus
\vas reputed to have dra,vn fro1n the sky and consecrated
the fire eternal-that fire conserved by the Vestals in
Ro1ne, and \vhich every year at the spring the priests
dre\v ftan1e with 'vhich they illumined their ten1ples. The
same ceremony was practised in Egypt. From an ancient
monun1ent of the religion of the Egyptians, it appears
that their custon1 'vas to fonn three piles of wood of
ten pieces each, a number equal to that of the decans or
the divisions of the signs of ten degrees in ten degrees.
Thus there are thirty pieces of \Vood, or as many as we
count of degrees to the sign. Upon each of these three
piles is lying a Lamb or Ram, while above is an im1nensc
image of the Sun, with rays prolonged as far as to the
earth. The priests touch 'vith the end of the finger these
rays, and from them dra'v the sacred fire, with 'vhicb to
light the funeral pile of the Lamb, and destroy the uni-
verse. In the celebration of that fete all \Vas red or the
colour of fire, as in the great commemorative Festival of
the JC\VS; that is to say, their Festival of the Lamb. That
resurrection of the fire, sacred and eternal, \vhose source is
the Sun, and \vhich at the spring renders life to nature
ORGANlZATIO~ OP THE CHIUSTIAN H.ELlGION. 43
in our he1nispherc, \Vas the true resurrection of the Sun
Christ. Every year the Bishop of Jerusa.lem shuts him-
self up in a little cave called the ton1b of Christ; provided
with a stock of little wax candles, by the action of flint
against steel he manages to produce an explosion of light,
such as that sometimes to be seen emanating from the
fires of the Opera, in order to make the fanatical multitude
believe that sacred fire is fallen from the sky upon the
earth. Then the bishop goes out from the cavern, crying
\Vith a loud voice, " Fire from heaven is descended, and
the holy candle is illuminated!, The credulous people
run in crowds to buy these holy candles; for the people
arc everywhere the dupes of the priest.
The name of Lamb 'vas given to Christ, and he was
formerly, as no,v, represented under that emblem, because
that Christ is the Sun, and that the triumph of the Sun
happens every year under the celestial sign of the Lamb,
or under the sign which was then tl1e first of the twelve,
and in which the equinox of spring had place. The
'frojans annually offered, as a victim to the Sun, the white
Lamb, and their country was celebrated by the mysteries
of Atys, in \vhich the equinoctial Latnb played a
grand part.
In the same way that Christians supposed their God-
Sun Christ to have been attached to the wood of a cross,
the Phrygians, adorers of the Sun, under the name of
Atys, represented him in his passion as a young man tied
to a tree. At the foot of that tree was a Lamb, or the
equinoctial Ram of Spring.
These mysteries of Atys lasted three days. They \Ve1·e
days of mourning which follo,ved immediately certain
days of joy, during which were celebrated, as already said,
the happy epoch when the Sun Atys resumed his empire
over the long nights.
That fete fell on the t'venty-fifth of March, or the eighth
day before the kaleneb of April, 'vhich happens to be the
4·1 THE fHUB OlUGL~, OUJJ.::t:T~ AND
very day on 'vhich, originally, Easter and the triutnph of
Christ \Vere celebrated. Between these t'vo fetes there
is no difference except in the name of the hero of the
tragedy, who, throughout both fables, is absolutely the
same God. In Phrygia also it \vas that people composed
the famous book of initiation to the mysteries of the Lamb,
\ve call Apocalypse. The Emperor Julian examines the
reasons ·which led thetn to place that solemnity at the
equinox of spring, and tells us it is because Deity then passes
the line which separates him fro1n our climates, and comes
to prolong in our hemisphere the duration of the days-
that which happens, adds he, 'vhen the Sun passes under
the Ram or under the Lamb. At his approach \Ve cele-
brate in our mysteries the presence of the God-Saviour
and Liberator.
The Ram, or the Latnb, does not \vith the Christiaus
play a part so important only because it is the very san1e
pa1·t as \vas formerly played by the Bull in the mysteries
of Bacchus and of 1\lithra. Osiris and Bacchus, both re-
presented under the forms of the ancient equinoctial Bull,
died, and rose from death, as Christ. In ancient Egyptian
ten1ples the mysteries of their passion \Vere symbolised
precisely as those of Atys and Christ with the Phrygians
and 'vith the Christians.
The fathers of the church, and the writers of the
Christian sect, often speak of these fetes celebrated
in honour of Osiris, and parallel them 'vith the ad-
ventures of Christ. Augustin, Theophilus, Athe-
nagoras, 1.1inutius Felix, Lactantius, Firmicus, as \Veil
as more ancient authors 'vho have spoken of Osiris, or
the God-Sun adored under that name in Egypt, agree in
describing the uuivcrsal mourning of the Egyptians,
during that festival 'vhere they commemorate the death of
Osiris, as we on Good Friday commemorate that of Christ.
They described the ccren1onies practised at his tomb, the
tears there shed during many days, and then t.he fetes of
Ult<i.-\.~lZ.\Tlu~ Ufo' Till~ L' JIHI~'l'j .\\ lU: LJ<dO\, ·L)
joy \vhich succeeded to that sadness at the moment of his
resurrection. He descended into Hell; then he returns
to unite himself '\\~ith Osiris, God of Spring, and to tri-
umph over the Prince of Darkness-Typhon, his enemy,
by 'vhom he had been put to death. Those mysteries in
'vhich the initiated were gratified 'vith the spectacle of his
passion were called mysteries of the night. According to
Macrobius, the ceremonies had the same object as those of
the worship of Atyi, and related to the Sun, vanquisher of
~arkness, symbolised by the serpent, of wl1ich Typhon, in
autumn, assun1cd the forms.
The same mode ofexplanation n1ay be appliedto Bacchus,
'vho, from the confession of all the ancients, 'Yas the same
as Osiris-that is, the God-Sun, of which the infantino
image 'vas presented to his worshippers at the solstice of
'vinter. Bacchus, after being put to death, descended into
hell, and suffered resurrection. Everyyear 'vere celebrated
the mysteries of his passion. Those fetes ·'vere called
fetes Titanic and festivals of perfect night. Of that God
it was fabled that he 'vas cut in pieces by giants; but
Ceres, his mother, having collected and reunited his men1-
bers, he again became young and vigorous. In order to
commemorate his passion, they put to death a Bull, of
which tl1ey tore the flesh, because Bacchus, or the God-
Sun, had been thus torn by the Titans. It was not the
representation of the slaughtered Lamb, but of the
slaughtered Bull, that 'vas given in the mysteries. In
Mingrelia it is a cooked Lamb that the prince tears in
pieces with his hands, and that he distributes among his
eourtiers, at the Festival of Easter.
Julius Firmicus, 'vhorelatesan ancientlegend concerning
the life and death of Bacchus, for whose real existence as
a man he contends no less earnestly than for the real exis-
tence as both God and man of Christ, admits that Pagans
explain these fictions by Nature, and that they regard such
recitals as merf'ly solar fables. It is also true that he
4G THE 'l'RUE ORIGIN, Ol!JECT, .A~U
denies the validity of their reasonings, as so 1nany people
deny the validity of our explanations; whether from igno-
rance, or an envious desire to calumniate that which they
understand not, as the fathers of the church in their critical
contest with Paganism so palpably displayed. Firmicus
even takei upon himself a defence of the Sun, which he
considered scandalised and outraged by these fictions,
imagines for it a discourse in which the indignant God of
Day complains of being sometimes submerged in the Nile
under the names of Osiris and of Orus; sometimes muti-
lated under those of Atys and of Adonis; sometimes
baked in an oven or roasted at the spit like Bacchus.
Firmicus might have added sometimes nailed or hung
upon a cross, like Christ. Clear it is the tradition that
all these tragical and incredible adventures '\Vere fictions
respecting the Sun, of an eminently n1ystical character,
\Vas conserved by Pagans of every age and nation. It is
this we propose to prove by our explanation of the fable
of Christ, put to death and resuscitated at the equinox of
.
spr1ng.
To Bacchus, as to Christ, was applied the term Saviour;
also to Jupiter, or the God represented 'vith horns like a
ram, who had his statue in the temple of the Virgin at
Athens. •
As for the rest, the idea of a God descended upon the
earth for the salvation of men is neither ne\v nor peculiar
to Christians. The ancients thought that the Supren1e
God had set, at various epochs, his sons or his grandsons
to etnploy themselves for the happiness of lnunan crea-
tures. In that number may be placed Ifercules and Bac-
chus, that is to say, the God-Sun, glorified under a great
variety of names.
Bacchus '.vorked miracles, cured the sick and predicted
events, just as Christ did. While an infant he 'vas me-
naced 'vith deatl1, precisely as Christ 'vas menaced 'vith
df'nth hy Ilcrod. The miracle of the thre(\ pitchers, 'vhich
.
OROANIZA'fiON 01~ TIIF. CURISTIAl'\ rtHLtOIO~. 47
in his temple constantly supplied a \vine 'vhich, though
freely partaken of, never diminished in quantity, 'vill bear
comparison 'vith the miraculous turning of water into
'Yine by Christ. On the sixth of January 'vas established
a feast commemorative of that n1iracle of the hero of the
Christian religion; it was on the ninth of the same month
that a like miracle 'vas 'vorked in the temple of Bacchus.
It appears that the author of the Christian legend has col-
lected different marvellous fictions, '\vhich, under many
names, \Vere received as gospel by adorers of the Sun.
Baccltus, like Christ, \Vas called God, Son of God ;
Bacchus, like Christ, established mysteries, in 'vhich the
famous serpent, 'vbo plays so distinguished a part in the
fable of the Lamb, is associated 'vith certain mystical
apples 'vhich gre'v in the garden of the IIesperides.
These mysteries or initiations were pledges of virtue.
The initiated also looked for the second coming of their
Man-God. They hoped he 'vould one day resume the
government of the universe, and renew for man his first
felicity. They wet·e often persecuted, as 'vere the adorers
of Christ. Many crimes were imputed to tl1en1 for cele-
brating these mysteries, just as many crimes \vere imputed
to the first Christians, and, in general, to all who cele-
brated mysteries of a novel and secret character. In
certain legends Bacchus \vas reputed to be the son of
Ceres, the celestial virgin. In other legends more ancient
it was the daughter of Ceres, or Proserpine, 'vho conceived
him through the po,ver of the I-Ioly Ghost, or the Su-
preme God, in the form of a serpent. That serpent is the
famous serpent of Esculapius, 'Yhich is like the brazen one
of ~loses raised in the wilderness. Bacchus is represented
\vith the horns of a Bull, because that, in point of fact,
every time the Sun unites itself 'vith the serpent of
autumn, the Bull of spring becomes clearly manifest.
In after ages it assutned the for1ns of the Lamb ;
and it is then t.hat Ceres, or the celestial virgin,
'l'U£ 'l'HV£ uHllH\, CUJI:<.'T• .\\tt
becotnes his mother, in the sense that she presides at
his birth. For we have already seen that the ancients
represented it under the emblems of a new-born
child, at the solstice of 'vinter, in order to express the
infantine condition of the God-Sun, adored under
the na1ne of Bacchus, in Greece, in Thrace, in Asia Minor,
in India, and in Arabia; under that of Osiris, in Egypt ;
of ~Iithra, in Persia; and of Adonis, in Phenicia; for
Adonis is the s~une as Osiris and as Bacchus, according to
the confession of ancient authot·s. But under that natne,
his legend is different from those of Osiris and of Bacchus.
It is not the history of a conqueror nor a king; it is that
of a young man of rare beauty, such as are all ancient
descriptions of the sun at the epoch of spring. The God-
dess 'vho presides at the generation of beings becomes
desperately enamoured of him. lie is torn fr01n her by
death; au enormous 'vild boar, at the hunting season,.
\Younding hin1 in the source of fecundity. The unfortunate
lover of 'Tenus dies; he descends into hell. The aoddess
of those regions where thick darkness prevails retains hitn
near her during six months; but at the end of that time
he ii rendered back to life and to his lover,whotn he enjoys
also for six months. The same sadness and the same
joy every year renew themselves and succeed each other.
All authors who have spoken of that sacred fable agree as
to Adonis being the Sun; in his death ; in his hanishn1ent
from our climates; in his descent to hell; in his t·eturn to
light; in his passage to the superior hetnispherc, 'vhere he
remains equally six tnonths, 'vhilst that the earth is laugh-
ing and decked with all t?e graces besto,ved upon it by
the Goddess 'vho presides over the generation of beings.
It is thus that Macrobius has understood that fable, and
his explication \vould be complete if verified by the
astronomical positions and formula furnished by us in the
article upon Adonis and Vcnus, to be found in our great
\Vork. :i\facrohins cl(\:trl:; pPrcei,·eff tl1at the fiction had
OROA~IZ.ATION OF THE CHRISTIAN UEJ,IOION. 49
for its object the Sun in his passage through the zodiac,
cotnpared 'vith tho state of tho e:u-th in the two grand
epochs of the movement of that star, whether it approach
or recede from our climates. That annual phenomenon
'vas the subject of joy and sadness 'vhich succeeded each
other, and of religious ceremonies, in which the death of
Adonis the God-Sun was deplored ; afterwards there were
rejoicings at his return to life or resurrection. Adorers
prepared for this God a superb bed by the side of the
Goddess of generation and of spring, of the mother of the
Loves and of the Graces. They made offering at his shrine
offlowers, ofessences ; in short of those first fruits that the
Sun annually warms into life. They invited him to render
himself to the 'vishes of mortals; hut before chanting his
return to life, they celebrated doleful fetes in honour of
his sufferings and his death. He had his initiated, who
'vept at his tomb, and 'vho shared with Venus alike her
grief and joy. The fete or festival cemmemorative of
return to life ·was, according to Corsini, fixed at the 25th
of March.
.At .Alexandria the custom was to celebrate with great
pomp the funct·als of Adonis, of whom his adorers solemnly
carried the image to a tomb. They were also celebrated
at Athens. Plutarch, in his Life of Alcibiadcs and of
Nicias, says it was at the moment of the death of Adonis
that the Athenian fleet prepared for its unfortunate ex-
pedition to Sicily; that nothing was then to be seen in the
streets but images of dead Adonis carried in procession to
the tomb by a cro,vd of women, who wept, struck their
breasts, tore their hair, affecting in all their actions the sad
pomp of interments. From that circumstance, according
to Plutarch, were drawn sinister prognostics, that the
event too fully realised. The women of Argos-for every-
where are women the strong support of superstition-went,
like Martha and Mary, to deplore the death of Adonis,
and that lugubrious ceremony took place in a chapel of the
E
50 'l'HE TRUE ORIGIN, OnJECT, .AND
Goo-Saviour, or the God-Lamb, or Ran1, Jupiter, inYokccJ
under the name of Saviour.
Procopius and St. Cyril also speak of these festh·als in
honour of the death of Adonis, and the fetes of joy by
'vhich they 'vere succeeded at the time of his resurrec-
tion. Worshippers of Adonis sho·wcd the wound he bad
received fro1n a 'vild boar, as worshippers of Christ she\v
the 'vound he received from a fanatical Jew. It was with
the aid of fictions such as these, and the pompous cere-
monial by which the unfortunate adventure of Adonis was
celebrated, that people were persuaded of its reality. For
people accustom themselves to believe as true facts purely
supposititious adventures, when a multitude of recitals and
of Inonuments seem to attest their existence. But, not-
'vithstanding these sacred legends, not,vithstanding the
prestige of the ceremonies which tended to a belief that
Adonis had actually existed, as our Christian doctors say
actually did the Sun-Christ, the Pagans (if so 've may be
permitted to call then1) have always seen in .Adonis the
personified Sun, and referred to the phenomena annually
manifested by that star all the n1arvellous adventures of
the lover of Venus, dead and risen from the dead. The
hymns of Orpheus and of Theocritus upon Adonis indi-
cate 'vith sufficient clearness that their hero.is but a per-
sonification of solar appearances and solar action. These
poets invite him to come with the nc'v year, in order to
spread joy throughout nature. It 'vas to the hours and
to the seasons that 'vas confided the care of leading l1im
back to the twelve months. Orpheus called Adonis the
God 'vith the thousand nantes, the nourisher of nature,
the God of 'vhom the light is extinguished and re-
kindled by the revolution of time, and which sometimes
sinks towards Tartarus, and sometimes remounts towards
Olympus, in order to diffuse that heat 'vhich is the source
of life and vegetation. The Sun, under the name of Horus,
son of tl1e Yirgin Isis, endured similar n1isfortuncs. Ile
OROANIZATIO::-i OF THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION. 5i
was pct·socutcd hy the black Typhon, wlto took the forms
Qf the se1·pcnt. That terrible fiend had hin1 cut in pieces
as Bacchus, but then he was recalled to life by his mother,
'vho gave hin1 immortality. It is in Christian writers and
'\Vith the Fatheri of the Chu1·ch that '\Ve find the principal
features of this sacred romance. They describe for us the
grief of Isis at the death of her son, and the fetes she
instituted on that occasion-fetes at first lugubrious, and
which aro very soon changed into fetes of n1irth and glad-
ness, '\vhcn her son Orus is resuscitated. But Orus, from
the confession of all the ancients, is the same as .Apollo,
and Apollo is the God-Sun; from whence it follows that
the sad fetes, to 'vhich succeeded fetes of joy, in honour
of Horus, dead and resuscitated, had also the Suu for
their object. It was then a fundamental point of there-
ligion of the Sun to ascribe to it death and resurrection, and
to commemorate that double event by religious ceremonies.
Hence the practice of everY'vhere raising tombs to the
divinity of the Sun, under various names. Hercules had
his tomb at Cadiz, where his hones were shown; Jupiter
had his in Crete; Bacchus had his also; Osiris had a
crowd of them in Egypt. That of .A.polio was shown at
Delphi, "\vhere he had been laid after the serpent Python
put him to death. Three women shed tea1·s upon his tomb,
just as three 'vomen wept at the tomb of Christ. After-
wards Apollo triumphed over his enemy, the redoubtable
Python, and that victory was annually celebrated at
spring by solemn sports. It was at the equinox of spring
that the Hyperboreans, of whom Apollo was the grand
divinity, 1nade the return of the Sun to tho sign of the
Lamb. Apollo took also the title of Saviour. At Athens
and at Sparta were celebrated in his honour fetes of joy
at the full moon of spring; that is to say, the epoch at
which the festival of the Lamb, o1· the Passover, is fixed
'vith the Jews and with the ChristianA.
It 'vas to,vards the commencement of the spring that
E 2
52 THE TnUE ORIGIX, OBJECT, AND
1nn.ny northern nations sacrificed to tho Sun. Tho most
solemn festival of tho Tartars is the Joun, or festival of
spring. That of the J(almucks falls a.t the full moon of
April. They call it first equinoctial day, and that fete,
the white day. In all the isles of Greece were celebrated
fetes in hononr of tlte amiable God of spring, the van-
quisher of winter and of the serpent Python ; 'vhich fetes
were called fetes of felicitation,
It 'vould be useless further to multiply examples of like
fetes of joy, celebrated in every part of our l1emisphere,
in memory of the passage of the Sun towards our regions,
and in gratitude for the manifold blessings diffused by his
presence.
'Ve have sufficiently proved that almost everywhere-
these joyous festivities were preceded by some days of
mourning, during 'vhich the death of the personified Sun
'vas motuncd, before celebrating his return to us, or 'vhat
've allegorically call his resurrection and triumph over the
Prince of Darkness and the Genius of Winter. The
Phrygians called these festivals festivals of the awaking
S~n, which they feigned to sleep during tl1e six months
of autumn and of winter. All these mystical fictions, as
we have seen, had no other object than that of comme-
morating the victories, alternate and successive, gained by
the night over the day, and by the day over the night1
together with that succession of activity and of repose of
the earth 'vhile submitted to solar influence. These annual
phenomena 'vere described in the allegorical style, under
the tragic forms of death, of crucifixion, &c., followed
always by resurrection. The fable of a Christ, hom as·
the Sun at the solstice of winter, and triumpl1ing at the
equinox of spring, under the forms of the equinoctial Lamb,
has then all the important features and essential character-
istics of those ancient solar fables with which 've have
compared it. The commemorative festivals of the religion
of Christ are, as all those of the various solar religions, con-
ORG.A~IZ..~TION OF THE CIIRISTL\.N H.ELlGIO.N. .53
nected essentially with the principal epochs of the annual
movement of the star of day. Fron1 whence we conclude
that, if Christ was a man, he was a man "\vho strikingly
resembled the personified Sun; that his mysteries have all
the characteristics of those of the adorers of the Sun ; or
rather, to speak unequivocatingly, that the Christian
religion, whether in its legend or in its mysteries, has for
unique and sole object the worship of lighteternal,rendered
sensible to man by the Sun.
'Ve are not the only nor the first person who has appre-
ciated this idea concerning the religion of the Christians.
Tertullian, their apologist, agrees that at the tiine 'vhen
Christianity passed to the "'vVest, enlightened persons who
e·xatnined it were of opinion, it \vas nothing more than a
parody of the Mithraic religion, and that the God of the
Christians, like the God of the Persians, was the Sun. They
remarked among Christians many practices which plainly
indicated the truth; as, for exan1ple, their practice of pray-
ing with their faces turned towards the East, or towards that
part of the world where the Sun rises. All their temples or
all the places 'vhere they assembled for religious purposes
'vere in ancient times turned towards the rising Sun. Their
'veekly fete day answered to the day of the Sun, called
Sunday, or day of the Lord Sun. The ancient Franks
called Sunday the day of the Sun. All these practices
resulted necessarily from the very nature of their religion.
The ~Ianicheans, whose religion was composed in part
of Christianity and in part of the religion of the l\1agi,
always while praying turned themselves towards the Sun.
Zoroaster confirtned this practice by a well retnembered
precept. lVIoreover the Manicheans, who had not entirely
lost the thread of the religious opinions of the ancient
Persians with regard to the two principles and the ~un
~Iithra, of which Christ is a copy, said that Christ \vas
the Sun, 01· that Christ had his residence in the Sun. That
fact is attested by Theodoret, St. Cyril and St. Leon. It
TllE TRUE ORIGIN, OBJECT, A:-;D
\vas preci::;ely because they held this opinion that tho
othe1· Christians, who declared themselves the best believers,
without doubt because they were the most ignorant,
refused Manicheans admission to their communion, unless
they abjured the heresy or dogma of their religion which
consisted in a belief that Christ and the Sun \Vere one and
the same thing. There were, besides, in the East two
Christian sects, who passed as adorers of the Sun. The
Gnostics and tho Basilidenes, who confessedly were the
most learned who p1·ofessed Christianity, as well as the
n1ost ancient, practically recognised many of those charac-
teristics which demonstrate the true nature of their worship.
To Christ they give the name of Tao, that tho oracle of
Ciaros gives to the Sun. They had their three hundred
and sixty-five eras or years, in number equal to that of
the three hundred and sixty-five days engendered by the
Sun, and their Ogdoradc, or representative of the spheres.
Finally, the Christian religion had such complete conforn1ity
with the worship of the Sun that the Emperor Adrian called
the Christians adorers of Serapis, tbat is to say, of tho Sun.
For Serapis was the same as Osiris, and the ancient n1edals
which carry an impress of Serapis have this legend, Sun
Serapis. We, therefore, are not tho first nor tl1e only
party \vho has ranged Christians in the class of Sun-
adorers; and if our assertion appear paradoxical, at least
it is not ne,v.
After having explained the fables which form the mar-
vellous part of Christianity and of its dogmas, we will
now enter upon an examination of that rather metaphysical,
as well as theologically abstract part, known under the
phrase, Mystery of the 1-Ioly Trinity. \Ve will continue
in the same argumentative path that we have travelled as
far as here, and hope to convince the reader that Christians
as such have nothing properly their own. Those we shall
proceed to expose arc ignorant plagiarists to whom nothing
belongs saYc the crimes of their priests.
ORGANIZ .\.TIO~i Or' THE CI!lll::;TI..\.:"( R ELIGlO_:.(. !JS
In order to explain the fable respecting the death and
:"csurrection of Christ, we have collected the legends of
.different religions, which, born in the East, propagated
themselves in the 'Vest, and 've have })roved th~t all the
cosmogonic allegories of their religion wero incorporated
"vith the mysteries of .Atys, of Bacchus, of Adonis, &c.
\Vc now propose to show that their theology is founded
upon the same basis as that of the Greeks, of the Egyptians,
of the Indians, &c.; that it involves tho same abstract
ideas, and that it borrowed, above all, tnany dogmas of the
Platonicians; that, finally, the Christian religion, in its
theological part as in its sacred legend, and in tho tragical
adventures of its God, contains absolutely nothing \vhich
may not be traced in all the other religions 'vhich fiourishc(t
n.ges before the establislnnent of Christianity. Their \Vriters
a.nd their doctors will on this point also furnish us the
authorities proper to convict them of grossest plagiaristu.
The dogtna of the unity of God, first theological dogma
of the Christians, is not peculiar to their sect. It has been
admitted by almost all theancient philosophers, and even the
popular religion of tho Pagans, in the midst of an apparent
polytheism, ever acknowledged a supreme Deity to whon1
all other Deities "\Vere submitted, whether called Gods,
Genii, or Angels. Such was great Jupiter with the Greeks
and 'vith the Romans; that Jupiter, father of Gods and
n1enJ 'vho filled the unive1·se with his substance. He 'vas
the sole 1nonarch of nature, and the divine natnes asstnned
by other Deities, 'vere rather an association in his title than
in his po"\ver, each divinity having his particular depart-
Inent, under the dominion of the first God, sovereign and
n1aster of all the rest. Scripture itself gives the nan1o of
God to beings subordinate to tho first God, without
hnpairing the unity of the chief or first cause. It was
precisely so "\vith the Jupiter of the Greeks. They repeated
unceasingly that Jupiter was one or unique. The oracle
.of ...~polio adtnits also an uncreatccl God, born of hilnse]f,
56 TilE TRUE ORIGIN, OB.JECT, A!\D
'vho inhabits ethereal fire; a. God placed at th~ head of all
the l1ierarchy.
In the n1ysteries of the religion of the Greeks 'vas
chanted a hymn clearly expressive of that unity. The high
priest, addressing the initiated, said, "Glorify the master of
the universe; he is one; he exists everywhere."
That the dog1na of the unity of God was received by
ancient philosophers, and formed the basis of the religion
of Orpheus, and of all the mysteries of the Greeks, is a
truth acknowledged by Eusebius, Augustine, Lactantius,
Justin, Athenagoras, and a crowd of apologistic Christian
writers.
We know that Christians 'vill say, that the ancient phi-
losophers who existed many ages before the establishment
of Christianity held these dogmas from revelation made to
the first man. But, besides that revelation is an absurdity,
we answer, it is not necessary to have recourse to the
supernatural when we know the series of philosophical
abstractions which led the ancients to an acknowledgment
of the unity of a first principle; and 'vhen, Inorcover, they
have themselves given us the motives which determined
them to admit the monad or first unity. These motives
are simple; tltey result from the nature of the operations
of the human mind, and the form under which the universal
action of the great whole is presented to us. The corre-
spondence of all the parts of the world amongst themselves,
and their tendency towards a common centre of motion
and of life, has led men who regarded the great whole as
an immense God to admit his unity, not conceiving
anything beyond the immense assemblage of all beings, or
beyond the whole. It was the san1e with those who
regarded the universe as a grand effect. The union of all
the parts of the work, and the regularity of the entire
systmn of nature, con1pelled them aJso to admit one only
cause of one only effect, in such n1anner that the unity of
God passed as a principle into the tnind of those ·who
ORGANIZATION OF TilE CIIRISTL\N RELIGIO~. 57
placed God, or first cause, beyond the world, and in the
mind of those 'vho confounded Deity with the world, and
distinguished not the 'vorkman from the work; as Pliny
and all the most ancient philosophers. "All things," says
Marcus Aurelius, "are connected among themselves by a
sacred chain in such manner that no one part can be a
stranger to the other; for all beings have been combined
to form one 1najestic whole, on which depends tl1e beauty
of the universe. There is but one world which comprehends
all; one only God who is every,vhere; one only matter
which is eternal; one only law which is the reason con1mon
to all beings."
In the few words here quoted from that philosophical
emperor, we see the dogma of the unity of God acknow-
ledged as consequence of the unity of the world; that is to
say, the philosophical opinion and motive '\vhich gave it
birth. The Fathers ofthe Church themselves have inferred
the unity of God fron1 the unity of nature, in other words,
the unity of the cause from the unity of the effect; for with
them the effect is distinguished from the cause-God is·
separated from the world; that is to say, they admitted an
abstract cause, instead of that real Being we call nature or
the '\Vorld. Observe here how St. Athanasius expresses
himself upon this point : " As there is but one nature and
one order for all things, '\ve must conclude there is but one
God, artist and ordainer, and from the unity of the work
deduce that of the workman:"
It is then apparent that Christians deduced the unity
of God from the unity of nature, just as the Pagans had
done before them. In all that we pe1·ceivo nothing more
than the natural operation and develop1nent of the human
mind, and need no intervention of divinity such as is
absurdly supposed or implied by revelation.
All the Platonists asserted the unity of the archetype or
tnodel upon 'vhich God created nature, a.s well as the unity
of the Dmniurgos, or God-artist, on the same philosophicn.l
58 TllE TRUE ORIGIN, OllJECT, A:'iD
principles. That fact 'viii not be contested by those whu
lw.ve studied Proclus or the other Platonicians.
Ancient philosophers, who, like Pythagoras, employed
the theory of numbers to explain theological truths, equally
ascribed to the monad the title of cause and of principle.
They expressed by the number one, or by unity, the
first cause, and on grounds of purely abstract mathematics
established the unity of God ; for in numbers unity every-
'vherc reproduces itself; and fron1 unity all sets out.
They predicated the very san1e of the divine unity or
monad.
Others, remarking the form of human administrations,
and, above all, that of the governments of the East, where,
in all time, the monarch has been the only known adn1inis-
trator, conclude it is the same as regards the government
of the universe, in which all partial forces seem reunited
under the direction and authority of one only chief, in
order to produce that perfect harmony whence what 'vc
call the syste1n of the world results. Despotism itself
.. favoured that opinion, which described 1nonarchy as the
image of the government of the Gods; for despotism in-
evitably tends to a concentration of authority and uni-
versal confounding of legislative with executive functions.
Thus social order, mathematics, and the reasonings of
philosophy, have, by different routes, led the ancients to
prefer unity to multiplicity in the first and supren1e cause,
{)r, as Simplicius expresses it, the principle of principles.
''The first principle," says that philosopher, "being tho
centre of all tho others, it encloses them all in itself by
-one only union. It is before all. It is the cause of causes ;
the principle of principles ; the God of Gods. IJet us,
then, call simply principles these particular principles ;
and let us call p1·inciple of principles that general principle
or cause of things, itself placed above all things."
It is thus that the universe, or universal cause, enclosing
,,-ithin itself all other causes, 'vhich arc its parts, 'vas rc-
ORGANIZATION OP TilE CHRISTIAN RELIGIO~. ;j!)
garded as tho principle of principles and as supt·c1ne unity.
1'hose who created an abstract and ideal world, and a God
equally abstract or separated from tho world, brwhom tho
world had been created upon an eternal model, reasoned in
a similar manner with regard to their ideal cause of the
universe. For the material world bas always furnished
the typo of the intellectual world, ~nd it isfrom that which
man sees be forms opinions as to that which he does not
see. The dogma of the unity of God, even with the
Christians, had its source in reasonings purely human, and
reasonings familiar to philosophers long before the era of
vulgar Christianity, as is evident from the writings of
Pythagoras, of Plato, and of their disciples.
Here it "viii be useful to repeat that which we have said
in our fourth chapte1.. with regard to the soul or life of the
world and its intelligence. By ancient philosophers man
'vas compared to the universe and the universe to man,
and as they called man the microcosn1 or little world, of the
world itself they made an immense giant who enclosed in
great and as its source that which man had in little and
by emanation. They remarked in man a principle of
motion and of life, held in co1nmon with other animals.
That principle manifested itself by tho breath, in Latin
spiritus, or the mind. Besides that first principle, they
recognised a second-that by which man, reasoning and
combining ideas, arrives at wisdom. This faculty of the
human soul, possessed in a much more eminent degree by
man than other animals, was called, by the Greeks, logos,
a word rendered into Latin by ratio and verbum. That
Greek word expresses two distinct ideas, rendered in Latin
and in French by raison, by tJerlJe or pa1"·ole-two words
entirely different. 'fhe second is nothing but an image of
the first; for the word is the mirror of the thought. It is
tho thought rendered sensible to others, and which, in
some sort, assumes a body in the n.ir 1nodificd by organs
of speech. 1,hese t'vo principles in n1an arc not b .vo
60 TilE TRUE ORIGIN, UllJECT, AND
beings distinguished fron1 hi1nself; though 've may, by
personifying, make distinct beings of them; but still it is
al\\·ays man, li'Ding and thinking, in whose unity, as in
their source, are all his faculties confounded. It is the
same with the universe, that in1mense and unique Deity
who encloses all within himself. His life or spi1·itus, as
well as his intelligence or logos, eternal, in1mense, as him-
self, confounded itself in his first or radical unity, called
Father, since from it these two faculties emanated. 'Ve
cannot conceive the Universe-God apart from the con-
ception that he lives the life universal and intelligent of
an intelligence equally universal. The life is not the in-
telligence, but both combined are the life or spiritus, and
the intelligence or divine wisdom, which belongs essentially
to the Divinity of the world, and 'vhich makes part of his
unique substance, since nothing exists which makes not
one of its parts. .All these distinctions belong to the
Platonician and Pythagorean philosophy, and neither imply
nor suppose revelation. No expressions were more
familiar to the ancient philosophers than these \vhich
follow :-"The universe is a vast anin1ated being, who
contains within hin1self all those principles of life and of
intelligence diffused in particular beings. That immense
Being, infinitely active and intelligent, is God himself;
that is to say, God, 'vord or reason, soul or life universal."
The universal Soul, designated by the term spiritus, and
compared to the life '\vhich animates all nature, chiefly dis- .
tributed itself in the seven celestial spheres, whose conl-
bined action wn.s believed to regulate the destinies of tnen,
and spread the germs of life in all that is born here below.
The ancients pictured that unique soul, or breath, which
produces the harmony of the spheres, by a flute with
seven reeds, that they put between the hands of Pan, or
the sy1nbol representative of universal nature. Fro1n
thence can1e also the opinion that the soul of the \Yorld
"~as contained in the number scycn-an idea that the
ORGA::'-JIZATIO~ OF THE CIIIUSTI.t:S RELIGION. ()}
Christin.ns borro,vcd fron1 the Platonicians, and that they
have expressed by the sacrum septenarium, or by their
seven gifts of the Holy Ghost. The breath of the I-Ioly
Ghost, like the breath of Pan, according to Saint Justin,
divided in seven intelligences. The unction of proselytes
was accompanied with an invocation to the IIoly Ghost,
called sometimes Mother of the seven houses-expressions
which signify, according to Beausobre, Mother of the
seven skies ; tho word spi1"itus, in Hebrew, being
fetninine.
Besides the principle of life and of motion, these ancient
philosophers admitted a principle of intelligence and of
wisdom. They gave to that principle a local habitation,
conceiving it to reside in substance luminous as light. The
French word lumiere equally expresses mental or phy-
sical light; for intelligence is to the soul that which light
is to the eye. It is not, then, astonishing to find
Christians declaring of Christ that he is tl1e light 'vhich en-
lightens every man coming into the world, and also that
he is tho Son of the Father of all Light; because such
declarations are true in a metaphysical as physical sense,
Christ being the lutninous part of the divine essence,
rendered sensible to man by the Sun, in which he incor-
porates or incarnates himself. It is under this last form
that he is susceptible of augmentation and of diminution,
and that he has been the hero of the sacred fictions upon
the birth and upon the death of the God-Sun Christ.
The Stoics placed the intelligence of Jupiter, or the
intelligence suprernoly 'vise which rules the 'vorld, in the
luminous substance of tl1e fire ether, 'vhich they regarded
as the source of ltuman intelligence. That opinion con-
cerning the nature of intelligence savours of materialism;
but men have reasoned upon the matter which they saw,
and whicl1 struck their senses, before dreaming dreams
with regard to the immaterial Being they have created by
abstraction. The more or less of subtilcty in tnatte.
r affects
62 THE TRUE ORIGIN, ODJE.CT, ANI>
.
not the fact that it is matter, and soul with the ancients
was nothing clso than an emanation of extremely subtile
n1atter that they endowed with the faculty of thought. As
've say the breath of life, 've say the fire of genius, and
the lights of the mind; and that 'vl1ich to-day passes for no
n1ore than a metaphor was formerly a natural and proper
mode of designating the principle of life and of intelligence.
Fathers of tho Church most learned, and writers most
orthodox, say constantly, "that God is a light, and a light
very sublime; that all we have seen of brightness, however
brilliant it may be, is a merely feeble ray of that light ;
that the Sun is a light without beginning; that God is a
light inaccessible, glorious, and everlasting; and that all
the virtues which environ Deity are lights of the second
order-rays of the first eternal, ever-brilliant light."
This is in general the style of the Fatl1ers, before and
after the Council of Nice. " The word," said they, "is the
light come into the world. It proceeds from tl1e bosom of
that light 'vhich exists by itself. It is God, born of God;
it is a light which emanates from a light. The soul .is
itself luminous, because it is the breath or emanation of the
light eternal," &c.
Tho theology of Orpheus teaches likewise that light,
the most ancient of all beings and the most sublime, is
God; that God inaccessible, who envelops all in his
substance, and that 've call light and life. These theo-
logical ideas have been plagiarized by the Evangelist John,
'vhon he says "that the life was the light, and that the
light was the life, and that the light was the word, or the
council and the wisdom of God." That light was not an
absb·act and metaphysical light, as Beausobre judiciously
remarked, buta real, veritable light, contotnplatedin heaven
by immortal spirits; at least many Fathers have thus
believed, as the same Beausobre proves.
The autl1orities here cited, tl1ough by no means com-
parable as rogards number to those given in our great
OUOANIZATI0'4 OF TIIE ClllliSTl1\ ~ UELIGIO~. G3
l\t·ork, perhaps sufficiently establish that the dogn1a received
in the most ancient theologies 'vas, that God is :t
lun1inous substance, and that light constitutes the intelli-
gent part of the univc1·sal soul of the 'vorld, or of th<J
U niversc-God. },rom thence it follows that the Sun,
'vhich of light is the grand focus and source, should he
regarded as the intelligence of the 'vorld, or at least as its
principal seat. From thence such epithets as mens mun.di,
or intelligence of the world, eye of Jupiter, &c., applied to
the Sun by ancient theologians.
All these ideas have passed into the theology of the
adorers of the Sun under the name of Christ, 'vhich make·
of Christ the son of the Father, or first God, this first emana-
tion,Godconsubstantial,orformed ofthe sameluminous sub-
stance. Thus the God-Sun is also the Logos, the 'vord, ortho
intelligence of the uncreated being or imtncnse God-U ni-
Yerse; that is to say, he has all those phases of character
claimed by Christians for their Redeemer, who it will be
found by all 'vho thoroughly analyze their religion is
but one, and one of the latest, personifications of solar
phenomena.
"\Ve know that tl1e Christians, profoundly ignora.nt with
regard to the origin of their religion, refuse all the
1naterialism of that theory, and that, like the Platonicians,
they have spiritualized all the ideas of ancient theology.
But it is none the less true that the system o~ spiritualists
is based and calculated upon that of the materialists ; that
it is born of materialism, and from it has borrowed all tho
divisions, in order to create a God purely chin1erical, and a.
world purely intellectual. Men contemplated visible light
before they in1agined a light invisible; they adored the Sun
which struck their eyes before they cr&'tted by abstraction
an intellectual Sun; they admitted a world they knc'v
heforc talking, or even thinking, of a God they kne\V not.
But the moderns -have t·easoned npon things factitious in
the same way that the ancients t·casoncd upon things real,
64 THE TnUE ORIGIN, OllJECT, AJ:iD
nnd given to their intellectual God his principle of intel-
ligence and his principle of life, equally intellectual, fro1n
whence they feigned to emanate all the life and all the
intelligence which manifest themselves in the visible 'vorld.
According to them there is a Sun intellectual, of which the
Sun visible is but the image; a light incorporeal, of which
the light of this world is but the corporeal emanation;
finally, a word incorporeal and a word embodied or incar-
nate, and render,ed sensible to man. That body was the
corporeal substance of the Sun, above which they placed
the uncreated and intellectual light, or Logos intellectual.
It is that refinement of the Platonic philosophy which has
furnished the author of the Evangile of John, the only
theological morsel to be found in !the Evangelist: "The
word took a body ; he resided amongst us, and 've have
seen his glory; it is that of the only Son of the Father."
That word, or that incorporeal light in the disc of the
Sun, to which alone it belongs to see his father, says
1\fartianus Capella, in the hymn he addresses to that star,
was submitted to time, and necessarily affected by its
periodical revolution. The physical Sun emits a light
subject to alteration, which seems to be born, to grow, to
decrease, and to finish, by turns succun1bing to and
triumphing over the chief of darkness; but the intellectual
Sun, always radiant in the bosom of his Father, or first
unity, knows neither change nor diminution, and, insepa-
rable from its principle, shines with eternal splendour.
All the distinctions between the intellectual and corpo-
real Sun are developed in the superb discourse addressed
to the Sun by the Emperor Julian, which contains also the
theological principles of ancient priests. It is by a careful
study of those principles we shall arrive at just conceptions
with regard to Christianity, and be enabled to explain the
two natures of Christ and his incarnation, which gave
place to that fable according to which Christ was very
God incarnate, born of a virgin, to be killed and suffer
resurrection.
ORG.ANIZAl'IO~ OF TilE CHRISTIAN ngLlGIOX. 6:)
. I
Proclus, in his commentary upon the Republic of Plato;
considers tl1c Sun under two relations, as God non-engen-
dered and God engendered. Under the relation oflu1~inous
principle 'vhich enlightens all he is sacred; but under the
relation of luminous body, he is not so considered. As
uncreated being, he reigns over visible bodies. As some-
thing created, he forn1s }Xtrt of the mighty tnass of being
which is regulated and governed. In that Platonic sub-
tilety, we may perceive the distinction as rcgal,'ds the two
natures of the Sun, and consequently of Clll'ist. Snch 'vas
the character of the philosophy taught in the n1ost famous
schools, when Christians comp.osed their theological code.
The authors of these 'vorks, the :Fathers, ~poke the
language of the philosophy of their time. Thus ~t. Justin,.
one of the tnost zealous defenders of Christian dogmas, tells
us, that in the Sun there are t\vo natures to distingu~sh;
the nature of the light and that of the body of the Sun 'vith
'vhich it is incorporated. The satne, adds he, holds "·itl\
regard to the two natures of Christ; 'vord or logos, when
conceived of as united to his Father, and tnan O\' incarnate
'vord 'vhen descended amongst us.
The supposed invisible and incorporeal light in th~
system of the spiritualists is that divine logos 'vhich
resides in the \vorld of intellect and in the bosom of the
eternal God. But the light, become sensible to 1nan by
concentrating itself in the radiant disc of that divine body,
called Sun, is tl1e uncreated light 'vhich assumes a,bodily
shape and resides amongst us. It is that logos, incorpo:
real or incarnate, descended to our visible \VOrld _
which
should be the Redeemer of the \Vorld. If in the bosom of
the invisible being had ever remained that light .and hea~,
lNhich alone arc able to remedy the disorders caused by
tho serpent of 'vinter, our evils would have b~cn 'vithont
t·on1cdy. But the principle of light, in uniting itself 'vith
the Sun, and by that organ comntunicating itself to tl1o
sensible universe, dissipates darl\:ness, and.. l>r. its heat
J'
66 THE TRUE ORIGIX, OBJEC'r, A~D
banishes the cold which had restrained the fruitful force
that each year the Spring seems to in1print on the ele-
ments. Behold the Redeemer, expected by all peoples,
and it is under the form or sign of the Lamb, at Easter,
that he consummates his great 'vork of regeneration.
From the foregoing, it is abundantly manifest that
Christians have nothing in their theology p1·opcrly their
own, and t11at so much of it as holds to the subtileties of
metaphysics they borrowed from ancient philosophers.
Their opinion concerning the spiritus, or concerning the
soul of the world and universal intelligence, kno,vn as the
Word, or 'Visdom of God, "\vas a dogma of ~ythagoras
and Plato. lVIacrobius has given us a piece of ancient
theology, or Platonism, which encloses a veritable Trinity,
of which the Trinity of the Christians is but a copy. lie
says that the world was formed by the universal soul,
which soul answers to our Spiritus, or Holy GhosL
Christians, 'vhen invoking their Holy Ghost, call him the
Creator: Veni Creator Spiritus, &c.
Macrobius adds, that from that spirit or soul proceeds
intelligence. It is this intelligence "\vhicl1, in a former part
of our work, 've have proved to be the Intelligence Uni-
versal, of which Christians have made their logos, or 'vord,
Wisdom of God.
1\Iacrobius goes still further-he recalls the three prin-
ciples to a first unity, 'vhich is the sovereign God. After
having rested his theory upon that Trinity, composed of
the Father, the Son, or Wisdom of the Father, and the
Spirit, which creates and vivifies al~ he adds : " You
see how unity, or the original J?lOnad of the first cause,
conserves itself entire and indivisible, as far as to the
soul, or spiritus., which animates the world." Thcso are
the dogma3 of the theology of the Pagans, which, pass-
ing into that of the Christians, have brought fortl1, not
only the dogma of the three principles, but n.lso that of
their reunion in a first unity. It is from that first
ORGANIZATIO:i OF TIIR CIIRlSTL\X RELIGIO~. G7
unity that the principles emanate. They reside primitiYely
in the unity of the 'vorltl, intelligent nnd li·ving, or of
the world animated by the breath of the Universal Soul,
and ruled by his intelligence; both of 'vhich are con-
founded in the unity uf the great God called 'vorld, or in
the idea of the Universe, that unique and everlasting
source of the intelligence and the life of all beings.
"\Vhatever of material could be founcl in t]m.t antique
theology was spiritualisecl by the modern Platonicians and
Ly the Christians, ·who created a Trinity of abstractions,
'vhich they personified, or, to bor1·o\v their o'vn language,
'vhich 'verc persons 'vho divided in common the first and
sole divinity of the first and universal cause.
Thus tho dogma of the Trinity, or the division of the
unity of a first principle into a principle of intelligence
and a principle of universal life, is merely a theologic
fi ~.
c"1on.
It is thus that the Indians, personifying the sovereign
po,ver of God, gave hitn tln·ee sons. 'I'he one is the
creating po\ver ; the second is the conserving power; and
the tl1irJ is the destroying power. Such is the origin of
the fan1ous Trinity of the Indians ; for Christians are not
tho only religionists 'vho have Trinities. The Indians
also had theirs ages before Christianity. They hacllike,vise
incarnations of the second person of that Trinity, kno,vn
under the na1ne of Vishnou. In one of these incarnations
he takes the name of Chrishnou. They make the Sun
the depository of that triple po,ver, and to it ascribe
t\velve forms ancl t'velve nan1es, one for each month, as
Christians give t\velve apostles to tl1eir Christ. It is at
the month of 1\'Iarch, or under the Latnb, that he takes
the nan1e of Vishnon. In their theology the triple power
represents nothing but unity.
The Chinese, too, have a kind of 1nysterious Trinity.
Tho first Being engenders a second, and the second a
third. 'Vith us the lloly Spirit or Gho~t procred::; nl~o
F 2
68 TilE TRUE ORIGIN, OBJECT, ~\ND
from the Father and from the Son. The grand tern1, or
the grand unity, say the Chinese, co1nprehends three ;
one is three and three are one. The Jesuit Kircher, in a
dissertation upon the unity and the trinity of the first
principle, traces to Pythagoras and as far back as the 1nost
ancient Egyptians all these metaphysical subtileties.
Augustine himself admits that among all peoples n1ight be
found opinions concerning divinityvery similar to those held
by Christians ; that the Pythagoricians" the Platonicians,
as well as many other philosophers, Lybian, Egyptian,
Indian, Persian, Chaldean, Scytl1ian, &c., held in comn1on
with Christians many dogmas regarding the Trinity in
unity of the God of Light and Truth. Augustine might have
added that all these philosophers existed before Christi~nity,
and hence l1ave concluded with us that from them
Christians borrowed their theological dogmas.
From all \Ve have said in this chapter it follows that
Christianity, of which the origin is comparatively modern,
has most liberally borrowed from ancient religions. 'Ve
have shown that the notion of a terrestrial paradise, and
the introduction of evil by a serpent, 'vhich serves as basis
for the dogma of the incarnation of Christ and his title
of Redeetner, is borro,ved from the books of Zoroaster, and
,
contains nothing more than an allegory expressive of
physical good and physical evil, 'vhich result from the
operations of Nature during each solar revolution. We
have sho,vn that the Redeemer from evil and vanquisher of
darkness is the Sun of Easter or of the equinoctial Lamb.
We have shown that the legend of a dead and resuscitated
Christ strikingly resembles all the ancient legends and
poems, which had for their object the personified star of
day, and that the mysteries of his death and resurrection
are purely those of the death and. resurrection of Osiris,
of Bacchus, of Adonis, and, above all, of Mithra, or of
tbe Sun, adored by different peoples under a. cro,vd of
different natnes. We have sho,vn that the dogmas of
O H.G.\.);~Z .\.TIO~ OP THE CIIlUSTIAN RELIGION. 69
Christian theology, and, above all, the dogn1a of the three
principles, or Trinity, belonged to many theologies far more
ancient than Christianity, as may be seen in the 'vorl<:s
of Ploturus, of 1\lacrobius, and other authors who 'vere
i1nbuod \vith the principles professed by Plato many ages
before Christianity, and afterw·ards by his follo,vers, in tho
tirno of the first Christian doctors. 'Vo have shown,
finally, that Christians preach nothing, practise nothing,
'vhich rnay truly be considered their own work, much less
the work of a Deity.
After having, as \Ve dare to affirm, demonstrated that
the incarnation of Christ is that of the Sun; that his death
and resurrection have also the Sun for their object; and,
finally, that Christians are in fact nothing but adorers of
the Sun, as were the Peruvians, \vhom they slaughtered,
\ve \vill proceed to discuss the grand question, Did Christ
really exist ? If those who put that question are to be
understood as demanding to know whether Christ, the
object of the worship of Christians, is a real or an ideal
being, our reply is, evidently a Jeal being, since we have
proved it is the Sun. Witl1out doubt nothing can be
n1orc real than the star 'vhich enlightens all \vho come into
the world. It has existed; it exists; and it will for ages.
continue to exist. If, ho\vever, it be demanded \Vhether
there existed a charlatan or philosopher who called himself
Christ, and established under that name the ancient
1nysteries of 1\Iithra, of .A.donis, &c., so far as regards
our 'vork it matters little whether he existed or not.
Nevertheless we disbelieve the reality of Christ, and 've
think' that, in the san1e 'vay, and for similar reasons, that
the adorers of I-Iercules believed in the reality of Hercules,
author of the twelve works, yet \vere deceived, since the
hero of that poem was the Sun, the adorers of the Sun-
Christ \Vere deceivcd in ascribing a human existence to
the sola.1· lun1inary personified in their legends. For what
~uarantoc ha.Ye ,yc of the realitv of anj.. such 1nan? The
~ v
70 THE TRUE ORIGI~, OHJECT, A~D
general belief of Christians since the origin of tltat sect,
or at least since Christiansectaries have 'vritten. Evidently
these people assert the reality of a Christ 'vho was born of
a virgin, who died, descended into hell, and suffered
resurrection-of a Christ \vhom they caU the Lamb, who
taketh a·way the sins of tho \Vorld, and 'vho is the
hero of their legend. But we have proved that that hero
is the· Sun, and not a man, whether philosopher or
impostor; and they themselves would shrink fro1n admit-
ting that to a mere philosopher they ascribe divinity;
neither 'vill they admit, so gross is their ignorance, that
Christ and the Sun are one.
Shall we search for evidences of the existence of Christ,
as philosopher or impostor, in the 'Yritings of pagan
authors? But none of them, at least none whose \vorks
have come down to us, treated that question ex professo.
For near a century after the epoch when, according to the
Christian legend, Jesus of Nazareth appeared on earth,
historians \Vere silent with respect to him, and ahvays it
is less of him than of self-styled Christians that they speak.
If Tacitus mentions Christ it is for the purpose of giving
the etymology of the tenn Christian, tlutt was said to be
derived from a certain Christ put to death under Pontius
Pilate; that is to say, Tacitus quotes the very language of
the legend, and we have seen that that legend \Vas a
solar fiction.
If Tacitus had spoken of the Brahmins, he would
equally have said, that they derived their name from a
certain Bral1ma, \vllo had lived in India; for Brahma,
like Christ, had his legend. And yet is it historically
certain that Bralnna never really existed as man, since
Brahma is but a name of one of the three attributes of
divinity personified. Tacitus, in his history of Nero and
of the Christian sect, to speak of Clnist gives of that na1no
the received etymology, \vithout troubliug hirnself to inquire
\vhethcr Ohrist had really existed, or \vhethcr it "\Vas merely
OHG#\~IZ.\TIO~ OF TUB CHRISTI.A!( RELIOIO~. 71
the narnc of the hero of a sacred legend. Any such
examination '\Vas absolutely foreign to the purpose of his
\VOrk.
It is thus that Suetonius, speaking of the Jews, supposes
that they agitated at Rome under Claudius, and that they
\vere moved by a turbulent, seditious, atheistical fellow,
called Christ, whose mad violence was the cause 'vhy that
cn1peror chased the Christians from Rome. It is difficult
to know '\vhich of the two historians, Tacitus or Suetonius,
is \Vorthy of credit, seeing that they do not agree either as
to the place 'vhere or as to the time '\vhen lived the pre-
tended Saviour. Christians prefer Tacitus, whose account
Lest accords \vith the solar legend. For ourselves, we say
that these t\vo historians have furnished nothing with
respect to Christ but vague statements on hearsay authority,
\vithout themselves attaching to those statements the least
in1portance; and therefore upon that point their evidence
offers no sufficient guarantee of the existence of Christ, as
1nan, whether legislator or impostor. If that existence
had been indubitable, we should not find from the time
of Tertullian, authors who had 1nost seriously discussed
the question and examined the origin of Christianity,
declaring that the worship of the Christians was the
\Vorship of the Sun, and by no means directed towards a
1nan who had formerly existed. It appears to us that
those 'vho make of Christ either a legislator or an impostor,
do so because \Vanting in faith as regards his divinity, and
because unable or unwilling to compare his fable 'vith
solar fables, for such comparison leaves no escape from the
great truth that Christ is the hero of a sacerdotal fiction.
It is thus that those '\vho cannot admit as facts the exploits
of Hercules, nor see in Hercules a God, arc reduced to the
necessity of 1naking him a grand prince \vhose history has
been ernbellished by the n1arvellous. I know that that
1nanner of explaining everytl1ing is Yery si1nple, and costs
no great efforts; but it does not., for all that, give us a true
TilE TH t;E OHIGI~, OllJECT, .\~1>
result; and Ifercules is none the less the Sun personifil'tl
and adored. Dut 'vhen nn error is established and the
doctors put enlightened criticism in the category of crimes,
\Vhen they fabt·icate son1e books, altering or burning others,
've lack the 1neans by \vhich to retrace our steps, above all,
after the lapse of in1mense periods of tin1e.
If there are ages of light for pl1ilosophcrs, that is to say
for a very small ntnnber of tnen, all the ages arc ages of
darkness for the rest of tnankind, especially as respects
religion. The credulity of the peoplo in former times
may be measured by the·impudence of the authors of the
first legends. According to their O\Vn account, they have
heard and seen this which thev relate. Yes! these vera-
.,
cious authors heard and sa'v things the most extravagantly
absurd and marYellous, and ackno,vledged to be impossible
by every nutn \vho has observed the march of nature.
These veracious authors, we are told, 'vere shnple men-
the legend, it 1nust be confessed, is sufficiently foolish; but
n1cn so si1nple as to believe any or every thing, or to say
they have seen that the seeing of which involves impossi-
bility, are able to offer us but poor historical guarantees.
\Ve confess ourselves unable to believe the Evangelists
\vere altogether sin1ple and \vithout education. One of
them, after having furnished an account suspiciously similar
to that 'vhich is given in three others, says that the hero
of his legend \Vorked a number so immense of other
1niracles, that to note them do,vn would involve the making
of a book too large even for the universe to contain. The
l1yperbolo is rather strong. But ho"'· docs it happen
tl1at of all these miracles none have come do,vn to us, and
that the four Evangelists enclosed themselves within the
same or nearly the same circle of facts 1 'Vas there not
considerable address on the part of those who transmitted
these \vritings ? and have they not sought to procure a
<'Oncordancc in the recitals of people they \Vonld fain haYc
n::; think did not act in concert? \Yhat are these thou-
OltG ANI.Z.\TIO~ OF THE C:tRISTL\.~ RgLIGION. 73
sand::) of ren1arkable events in the life of Christ? .And yet
the four authors of his life agree to speak only of the san1c
facts. They arc concea.led by all the disciples of Christ ;
tradition and the sacred "\Vriters are clu1nb ! The boy
author of the legend, kno\vn as the Gospel according to
St. John, has reckoned, ·without doubt, that be "\Votdd have
no other than believers for readers; that is to say, fools.
Finally, to admit the testimony of these sacred books as
})roof of the existence of Christ, is to believe all, and dis-
honour reason at the shrine of senseless credulity. :For if
these authors are to be believed 'vhen they tell us that
Christ lived an1ong them, how, or on what ground shall
"\Ve decline to believe that he lived precisely as they relate,
and that his career was n1arked by all so1·ts of marvellous
events. Good Christians believe all, and if they are im-
becile, they aro at least consistent. We kno\v it is possible
that the Evangelists deceived us, or were themselves deceived
as regards the details of the life of Christ, without being
in error as to the fact of his existence. But again 've ask,
\vhat confidence can be accorded, even as regards the
existence of Christ, to authors who deceive, or who arc
themselves deceived in all the rest, more especially when
've know there is a sacred legend, of \vhich the Sun under
the name of Christ is the hero? Are v;e not naturally led
to believe that the adorers of the Sun-God would ascribe
to him an historical existence, as adorers of the same
Sun, under the names of Bacchus, of Hercules and of Osiris,
did to those Gods, although really enlightened ancients,
kne'v 'veil that Bacchus, Osiris, Hercules, and Adonis,
never existed as ~en, and \Vere notl1ing but the God-Sun
personified? Besides, no people could be more ignorant or
more credulous than the first Christians, on whom \Vas
imposed an Oriental legend concerning Mithra, or the Sun,
lfy theological doctors_, \vho knew very \Veil that the more
ancient priests frou1 whon1 theyderivcd it "~ere 'vorshippers
of tlte Solar l)eity. It is an old fahlc, retouched and
'l'Jl.G TllUE ORlGl.N, OBJECT, Al'CD
tnodificu by 1ncn Lut partially cHlightencd, 'vho sought to
connect the elements of 1norality in the person and name
of Christ, Son of God, to whom they gave a language,
and of whon1 the mysteries had for ages been celebrated
in the obscurity of sanctuaries, under the na1nc of 1\Iithra
or Adonis. Early Christians might have connected their
legend 'vith this last, if his too well known gallantries had
not forbidden such a course. They adopted a mystical
name of tile Sun, less known, and in the manufacture of
their legend associated it with the events of their age,
'vithout fearing the critical spirit of a sect an1ong whon1
to believe 'vas a sacred duty.
It is in1possible that imposture and impudence can be
pushed further than they 'vere by the first Christian
'vriters, who were in all cases either assun1ed or real
fanatics. Authors cite a letter of St. Denis the Areopagite,
'vho attests that hi1nself and the sophist Apollopharius 'verc
at Heliopolis, or to,vn of the Sun, 'vhen took place the pre-
tended eclipse of the Sun, which at the full of the moon
(that is to say, against all the laws of nature) happened at
the death of the Sun, or Christ. He affirms that they dis-
tinctly sa\v the moon forsake its proper or natural orbit to
place itself under the Sun, where it ren1ained during
three hours, and afterwards returned to the east or point of
opposition, 'vhcre, in the natural course of things, it could
not have arrived till fourteen days after. When 've find fana-
tics sufficiently dishonest to fabricate fables such as these in
the hope of causing them to be believed, it is clear that
a vast nun1ber of fools are ready to believe them, and that
cxperi1nents upon credulity, however impudent, n1ay be
safely attempted. In Phlegon we found many marvellous
recitals 'vhich attest the shameful credulity of those ages.
The l1istory of Dion Cassius is no less fruitful in prodigies
of every kind-a fact sufficiently indicative of the facility
'vith 'vhich people the11 bclieYed Iuiraclcs. The pretended
prodigies operated hy Sitnon the tnagiciau, and the faith
ORGA~IZATION OF THE CllHISTlA~ UELlGlO?f. 75
people appeared to l1ave in that tissue of impostures
announce that in those days the people were disposed to
believe all things; and it is among the people that Chris-
tianity ·"·as born and that Christianity \Vas propagated.
[f '\Ye read 'vith attention the martyrology of the three
first ages of the miracles of Christianity, 've shall blush for
mankind, that imposture on the one side, and credulity on
the other, have so strangely djshonoured; and it is upon
~uch bases as these that have been built up the history and
the existence of a God or divine man, of \vhom no person
of sense, no \Vriter unconnected with or strange to the
Christian sect, has spoken at the time when Christ is said
to have astonished the world by l1is miracles. Apologists-
of superstition are reduced to the hard necessity of searching
near a hundred years after in Tacitus the etymology of the
word Christian, to prove the existence of Ch1·ist, or by a
n1aster-stroke ofpiousfraudulencyinterpolatiug a passagein
Josephus. If this last-named author had known Christ,
he would not have failed to enlarge upon his history;
above all, having to speak of a man who had played so·
extraordina1·y a part on the soil of his country. When
sectaries are obliged to l1ave recourse to such pitiable,
means, it is easy to understand the embarrassment and
difficulty they feel when endeavouring to convert those
"\Vho desire a reason for their belief. Tacitus himself, if
there had really lived in Judea a man 'vho so astonishingly
signalised himself, whether as legislator or philosopher or·
un·worthy impostor, would scarcely have contented himself
"vith saying Christ was crucified in Judea. 'Vhat a variety
of reflections an extraordinary man thus put to deatl1
'vould have furnished to so philosopllical a writer! It is
clear that Tacitu::; attached no importance to the circum--·
stance (if indeed l1o ever referred to it at all, 'vhich some·
doubt), and that for him Christ was nothing 1nore than a
\Yord ,,·hich gaYe the etymology of the na1nc of the
Christians-a class of sectaries reccntlv kno,vn at Ro1ncy
..
76 Tllli TRUB ORIGI~, ODJECT, AND
\vhere they were decried and hated in their origin. Tacitus
has then simply said that 'vhich he had heard said by
others,and nothing Inore, according to Christians thmnselves.
Of course then our guarantees on this matter are Christian,
and not either Tacitus or Suetonius. We kno'v that much
stress is laid upon the universal faith of the adorers of
Christ, who from age to age have attested his existence
and his miracles, as they have attested those of many Saints
and martyrs, the mit-acles ascribed to whom this age has
little faith in. But we have already observed, in reference
to Hercules,that the beliefof many generations in matters of
religion, proves absolutely nothing except the credulity of
believers,and that I-Iercules'vas no more than a solar perso-
nification because the Greeks believed or said something
very different. A grand error propagates itself 'vith 1nuch
1nore facility tl1an a grand truth, because it is easier to
l)clieve than to reason, and because men prefer the mar-
vellous of ro1nance to the sin1plicity of fact. If
Christians adopt that rule of criticism, 've arc able to
oppose to thmn the firm belief that each people has had,
and still has, in the miracles and oracles of their religion.
According to our Christian canon of criticisrn that would
prove its truth; but 've doubt that Christians would be
satisfied 'vith such proof. They say, 've know, that to
thCin alone belongs the truth, that they alone appreciate
it; but other superstitionists say the sa1ne thing. \Vhat
shall be the judge? We reply-good sense ; and not
either the received faith, or tl1e received opinion, ho,vever
general that opinion may be. Christians tell us that to
impugn belief in the existence of Christ, and the truth
of the recitals of his apostles and the sacred writers, would
be to overtu1·n the very foundations of history. If 've
remember aright, Cicero, the great Roman orator, said,
that to deny the truth of tho o1·acles of Delphi 'vould be
to tear up or overturn the foundations of history. ''re
dCinand of Christians 'vhethcr they adn1it that, ·when
ORO.\~lZATIO~ OF TUN CIIRISTL\~ RELlGION. 77
attacking these ancient oracles, they arc overturning the
foundations of history; and \vhethcr the Roman orator
would have talked about a denial of the truth of their
prophecies involving the very foundations of history had
ho kno\vn their true nature. Each 1nan defends his O\Vn
chimera.,.not history.
Notl1ing has been more generally spread, and nothing
for a longer tiinc believed, than astrology ; yet nothing
can possibly rest upon a foundation more fragile, or
lead to results more egregiously false. It has put its
seal on aln1ost all the monutnents of antiquity. Nothing
has been wanting in its predictions but truth; and
1nillions have believed in it-millions believe in it still.
The same Cicero proves the reality of divination by a
crowd of facts that he adduces in support of l1is assertion,
and, above all, by the fact of universal belief; he adds
that that art may be traced to the most remote antiquity ;
that there never 'vas a people 'vithout their oracles, their
augurs, their prophets, and "vho had not faith in tho fates,
in dreams, &c. That is true ; but what shall we conclude
therefrom, except that credulity is one of the 1nost
ancient of all lnunan n1alaclies-an invetcrate epidcn1ic,
spread over all societies, and that the world, or rather the
people who are its occupants, naturally divide into t'vo
classes-the class of cheats who dupe, and the class of
fools who are duped. 'Ve might equally prove the
reality of ghosts by the antiquity and universality of tho
opinion that ghosts have been, and the miracles of
St. Roch and of Esculapius by the votaries of ancient
temples. Human reason is enclosed within narrow boun-
daries; credulity is a bottomless abyss which, all-devour-
ing, rejects nothing therein thro,vn. We decline, then, to
believe in the certainty of the science })ractiscd by augurs,
because grave authors assure us that Accius Navius, in
order to pt·ove the infallibility of that science, invited
Tarquin to imagine something he, Accius Nnvius, 1night
78 THE TRUE OIUGe~, OBJECT, A~D
<lo; and that Tarcptin, having thought about cutting rL
flint \Vith a razor., the augur acco1nplished that feat upon
the spot. A statue, raised in the public square, perpetu-
ated the memory of that prodigy, and attested to nll
the Ron1ans that the art of augury \vas infallible. The
S\vaddling-clothes of Christ, and the wood of his cross,
no more provo his existence than the print of the foot
of llerculcs establishes the reality of that hero ; and the
columns raised in the plain of St. Dennis by no means
convince me that St. Dennis passed by tl1at place 'vith
his l1cad under his arm. The story of this Dennis, or
Dionysos, suggests to me nothing more than an ancient
legend about the ancient Greek Baccl1us and the Egyptian
Osiris, 'vhosc head every year enjoyed a voyage do,vn
the Nile, as far as Biblos, as did that of Orpheus upon
\Vaters equally famous ; and it is here \Ve shall have an
opportunity of showing how far, in the direction of lunacy,
imposture and ignorance \vill conduct a people 'vhcn the
priest has made himself master of the popular 1nind.
It is thus that the formula of \Vishes, perpetua felicitas,
gives })irth to two saints, Perpetua and Felicita, o1· dura-
ble felicity, 'vhich in tl1e invocation are not separated ;
that to pray and to give, or rogare and donare, become
St. Rogatian and St. Donatian, which, like St. Felicita
and St. Pcrpetua, are dealt 'vith as inseparable.
There is abundant evidence that the Pagan Calendar,
and tl1c beings physical or moral who '"'ere there personi-
fied, fonnd place in the ChriRtian Calendar 'vithout
encountering many obstacles.
'Ve will not further extend these reflections, because our
objectin this work is not so muchto expose the tricks of igno-
rance and the impudence of imposture as to recal tl1e Chris-
tian religion to its true origin, to show the tie by which it is
united to all others, and to provo that it is by no 1neans
an exceptional religion, bnt enclosed within the circle of
universal religion, or of the universal ,yorship rendered to
OHGANIZATIO:"J OF THE GURISTL\:-t' RELIOIO.:'i. 7H
Nature and to the Sun, its principal agent. 'Vo shall have
n.tta.ined our end if 've have convinced a stnall number of
readers (for the multitude \Ve abandon to the priests), and
proved that Christ is nothing but the Sun; that the
mysteries of the Christian religion have for their object
light, their nature being the satno as those of the Persians,
or of Mithra, as those of Adonis, Osiris, &c. ; that
Christianity differs from ancient reHgions only in its
names, its forms, and its allegories, and that the founda-
tion is absolutely the same; finally~ that a good Christian
is like every good Pagan-merely an adorer of the source
of all light, that glorious star we call Sun. After that, if
they can, let them continue to believe in the existence of a
Christ, \vho is neither the Christ of the legend nor tho
Christ of the mysteries; to us it matters little. 'Vo feel
not the \Vant of their second Christ, since belief in him will
have nothing in common -vvith belief in the hero of
the Christian religion; that is to s~y, belief in him 'vho
is now so generally believed in by the ignorant and tlte
prejudiced. For ourselves, 'vc declare that that second
Christ never has existed, and we believe that some at least
among our readers are penetrated by tho same sentiment,
and can as little accept Christ and his tniracles as llercules
and his t\velve 'vorks.
'Ve do not, ho,vever, conceal from ourselves that there aic
among our readers many who, though ready to adtnit
the soundness of our theory so far as regards the foundation
of the Christian mystery, will persist in the supposition
that Christ really existed, whether 'vise or foolish, great
legislator or impudent impostor, "because before reading
our book they have accepted that idea, never for a series of
years so much as suspecting its falsehood. Belief with
such persons is a habit difficult to be got rid of. As their
philosophy is capable of no greater extension than to the
point just indicated, we feel that any further reasoning upon
the subject is unnecessary. Enough has been clone to con-
80 TilE TRUE ORlOI~, EiTC., OF THE CHRISTIAN H.ELIG!O~.
vince eYery unprejudiced and discerning reaucr tha.t there
are no historical evidences which 'varrant the belief that
Christ as 1nan ever really existed.
Finally, there are multitudes of n1en so badly organized,
t'1at they believe readily no matter 'vhat, except it be
uictated by good sense and sound reason, and 1nanifest
towards philosophy the same sort of alarming distaste as
mad dogs manifest towards water. Such people 'vill not
read our book, and if they did, would scarcely profit by
it. Their mind . is the pasture of priests, just as a
corpse is the pasture of 'vorms. It is only for the friends
of hum~nity and of reason that 've 'vrite : the rest belong
to another 'vorld. Their God is said to have assured them
that his kingdom 'vas not of this 'vorld ; that is to say, the
'vorld where people reason; and that the poor in spirit arc
blessed, for to them is the kingdom of heaven ! I.Jet us con-
tinue our n1arch, 'vithout pausing to count the more or
less of suffrages 've are able to obtain by an honest and
bold. attack upon the front of credulity ; and after having
exposed to the searching eye of intellect the dark sanctuary
of the priest, let us not hope that he 'vill invite the faith-
ful to read our book. It sufficeth fo1· us that a happy re-
volution, 'vhich has been accomplished by reason, entirely
to the profit of t·eason, has taken fro1n priests the power
to do mischief, or to pluck from 'vriters of forbidden truths
tho shameful retraetations of Buffon.
FINIS.
U. I>. COUSI NS) P RINTEr., Ilf. DIET COURT, ~37-A, STRA!-tD, LOXDO:\,
