{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1845__sunderland___confessions_of_a_magnetizer_exposed.pdf","mytitle":"Confessions Of A Magnetizer Exposed","mylang":"de"}
CONFESSIONS OF A MAGNETISER"
EXPOSED!
EXHIBITING THE
FOLLY AND FALSEHOOD
OF A RECENT PAMPHLET WITH THE ABOVE TITLE.
WITH
REMARKS, SHOWING THE FALSITY OF THE NOTIONS
HITHERTO PREVALENT IN REGARD TO WHAT
HAS BEEN DENOMINATED
''MESMERISM;"
AND GIVING THE OUTLINES OF THE AUTHOR's
NEW THEORY OF MIND.
BY LA ROY SUNDERLAND.
"God made us, and wb marvel at ir.'
BOSTON:
PUBLISHED BY REDDING AxND COMPANY.
NO. 8 STATE STREET.
1845.
IKJ\\
\'i.»'£-
§'~E>"2>
"CONFESSIONS OF A MAGNETISER"
EXPOSED!
FULLY AND EALSEHOOD
OF A RECENT PAMPHLET WITH THE ABOVE TITLE
'WITH
REMARKS, SHOWING THE FALSITY OF THE NOTIONS
HITHERTO PREVALENT IN REGARD TO XVHET
HAS BEEN DENOMINATED
"IIE'SIIEEISM;"
AND GIVING THE OUTLINES OF THE AUTHORIS
NEEV THEORY OF MIND.
wvAA~v
BY LA ROY SUNDERLAND.
MMMMmWWWWNm7MMMMMMMw"
G
B()SfFC)N:
PUBLISHED BY REDDING AND COMPANY.
NO. 8 STATE STREET.
'
1845.
^
••• .« • •.
• • «
l f.
$A.ui.;
"CONFESSIONS OF A MAGNETIZER"
EXPOSED.
LETTER I.
Boston, July 14, 1845.
Dear Sir,—As you requested, I have given the pamphlet purporting
to be the " Confessions of a Practical Magnetizer,*^ or " An Expose of
Animal Magnetism," a thorough reading, and, but for your request, I
should have thrown it aside, as utterly unworthy of a moment's notice.
However, the reasons you assign, have, upon farther consideration, in-
duced me to comply with your wishes in exposing the folly and wicked-
ness of this silly publication. With you, I do not suppose, that it will
be read by many intelligent people, of any class, nor that any one with
a thimble full of brains, who knows any thing of the subject of which it
professes to treat, would be likely to be deceived by its puerile details,
as false and improbable as they so manifestly appear to be. But, the
fact that this subject has fallen into disreputable and unworthy hands,
like this one who dubs himself as a " practical " " animal magnetizer,"
that there is a vast amount of misconception and prejudice in the com-
munity generally, against the subject, and that this pamphlet will be
likely to be read only by those who have not the means of detecting the
falsehoods palmed off upon them by this writer, forces upon me the con-
viction, that, upon the whole, it may be best for me to " expose " the
"humbugry" of this pamphlet, as worthless as it may be. The
mass, we know, do not enter into a thorough investigation of the laws
of mind, and hence it is reasonable to suppose, that most who may
"GONFESSIONS OF A MAGNE'I'lZER"
EXPOSED.
LETTER I.
Bosron, July 14, 1845.
DEAR SIR,*AS you requested, I have given the pamphlet purporting
to be the "
Confessions of a Practical Magnetizer," or
"
An Expose of
Animal Magnetism," a
thorough reading, and, but for your request, I
should have thrown it aside, as utterly unworthy of a. moment's notice.
However, the reasons you assign, have, upon farther consideration, in-
duced me to
comply with your wishes in exposing the folly and wicked-
ness of this silly publication. With you, I do not
suppose, that it will
be read by many intelligent people, of any class, nor that any one with
a thimblc full of brains, who knows any thing of the subject of which it
professes to treat, would be likely to be deceived by its purile details,
as false and improbable as
they so manifestly appear to be. But, the
fact that this subject has fallen into disreputable and unworthy hands,
like this one who dubs himself as a
"
practical
" "
animal magnetizer,"
that there is a vast amount of misconception and prejudice in the com-
munity generally, against the subject, and that this pamphlet will be
likely to be read only by those who have not the means of detecting the
falsehoods palmecl oH` upon them by this writer, forces upon me the COD'
viction, that, upon the whole, it may be best for me to
"
expose
"
the
"
humbugry
"
of this pamphlet, as worthless as it may be. The
mass, we know, do not enter into a
thorough investigation of' the laws
of` mind, and hence it is reasonable to suppose, that most who may
4 "CONFESSIONS OF A MAGNETIZER" EXPOSED.
read this production, will receive a vague impression that, if it be not
strictly true in all its details, yet there may be something in the thing
denominated " animal magnetism " which should render it disreputable
or dangerous, according to the representations contained in this
pamphlet.
In the notice, therefore, which I purpose to bestow upon this self-
styled " practical animal magnetizer," you will perceive I have a two-
fold object in view, —not merely to expose the folly, the falsehood^ the
deception and hypocrisy of this author, but in doing this, to set forth the
real nature of that form of human influence hitherto most generally
known under the name of " Mesmerism," and the useful purposes to
which it may be applied. And in the sequel, I doubt not, it will be made
to appear, not only how very unworthy of credit this nameless book is,
and, withal, how hlameivorthy, how deserving of censure, the individual
must be who could allow himself to resort to the publication of such a
book, for the purpose of making money. We shall see with what a be-
coming grace this " animal magnetizer " tells us that he " had taken a
most solemn oath " that he would never, on any account, receive pecu-
niary compensation for his " animalizing,'*'' and how much worse it
would have been for him to have received pay for doing the good which
he tells us he did, than it was for him to attempt to make money by the
falsehoods which he has put forth in his pamphlet, under the pretence of
exposing the humbugry of Magnetism.
If there by any offence deserving of severe reprehension, any which
should expose one to the unmixed condemnation of the public, any for
which the perpetrator should be made to feel ashamed and degraded in
the estimation of the community, it is the publication of falsehood and
misrepresentation, under the pretence of exposing " humbugry." The
man who purposely deceives the public mind, who wilfully misleads those
whom he assumes to teach, in matters that concern the character, the
health, the happiness and lives of his fellow men, commits a crime as
really deserving of punishment, as if he were to set fire to their dwell-
ings, or shorten their earthly existence by furnishing them with a deadly
lioison, under the pretence of selling them wholesome food. Where is
safety ? Where is public confidence .? How shall the mass, who have
not the time nor means for acquiring correct information upon matters
of philosophy, avoid the mischiefs of humbugry, when they are hum-
hugged under the guise of attempts at exposing humbugry ? And
yet, how very much of this kind of deception we often see around us !
A quack cries out against quackery ! A pretended " Magnetic College
"
4 "eonrnsstons or A it-tAoNEr1znn" sxrosro.
read this production, will receive a
vague impression that, if it be not
strietly true in all its details, yet there may he something in the .Ching
denominated "
animal magnetism
"
which should render it disreputable
or
dangerous, according to the representations contained in thi_s
pamphlet.
'
A
In the notice, tlierefore, which purpose to bestow upon this self-
styled
"
practical animal rnagnetizer," you will perceive Ihave a two-
fold object in view, --not merely to expose the folly, the falsehood, the
deception and hypocrisy of this author, but in doing this, to set forth the
real nature of that form of human influence hitherto most generally
known under the name of' "M-3smerism," and the usetiil purposes to
which it may be applied. And in the sequel,`[ doubt not, it will be made
to appear, not only how very unworthy of credit this nameless bool; is,
and, withal, how fnlemoiuorthy, how' deserving of censure, the individual
must be who could allow himself to resort to the publication of such a
book, for the purpose of making money. 'We shall see with what a be-
coming grace this "
an-ima! magnetizer
"
tells us that he "
had taken a
most solemn oath
"
that he would never, on
any account, receive pecu-
niary compensation for his "
an-in1al'iz"Eng," and how much Worse it
would have been for him to have received pay for doing the good which
he tells us he did, than it was for him to attempt to make money by the
falsehoods which he has put forth in his pamphlet, under the pretence of
exposing the humhugry of Magnetism.
If there by any offence deserving of severe
reprehension, any which
should expose one to the unmixed condemnation of the public, any for
which the perpetrator should he made to feel ashamed and degraded in
the estimation ot' the community, it is the publication offalseftood and
misrepresentation, under the pretence of exposing
"
humhugry." The
man who purposely deeeives the public mind, who wilfully misleads those
whom he assumes to teach, in matters that concern the character, the
health, the happiness and lives of his fellow men, commits a erinte as
really deserving of punishment, as if he were to set hte to their dwell-
ings, or shorten their earthly existence by furnishing them with a
deadly
poison, under the pretence of selling them wholesome food. Where is
safety? Where is public confidence E How shall the mass, who have
not the time nor means for acquiring correct intbrmation upon matters
ot' philosophy, avoid the misehiefs of humbugry, when they are Imm-
baggezl under the guise ot' attempts at earposing humbugry? And
yet, how very much ot' this kind of deception we often see around us I
A quad: cries out against quackery I A pretended
"
Magnetic College
"
'^CONFESSIONS OF A MAGNETIZER " EXPOSED, 5
is reported to have been formed by three or four persons, as ignorant
of the true philosophy of what is called Magnetism, as they are of the
Chinese language, and they tell us it is done to " guard " the public
against imposition !
" Public attention is called by advertisements in
the papers, to what purports to be an " Expose of Animal Magnetism,"
by " A Practical Magnetizer," by which we are given to understand,
that a credible person, thoroughly acquainted ^vith what the most intelli-
gent writers assume in relation to this subject, has written something
which honest people would be enlightened in reading, but, on examina-
tion, it is found that this veiy pretended exposure is a deception^ defraud
upon the public confidence, and a base ruse to make money, as mean
and dishonest, and a thousand times more so, than if it were filched from
your pocket. He v/ho steals your money " steals trash," but he who is
the means of deceiving you with regard to the philosophy of your ieing^
and the laws of life, does you a greater injury and one which may cause
you more misery than all the riches of earth would ever do you good.
1*
"coxrsssrons or A MAG-NETIZER" sxrossn. 5
is reported to have been formed by three or four persons, as
ignorant
of the true philosophy of' what is called Magnetism, as
they are of the
Chinese language, and they tell us it is done to "
guard" the public
against imposition Z" Public attention is called by advertisements in
the papers, to what purports to be an
"
Expose of' Animal Magnetism,"
by "A Practical Mngnetizer," by which we are
given to understand,
that a credible person, thoroughly acquainted with what the most intelli-
gent writers assume in relation to this subject, has written something
which honest people would he enlightened in reading, but, on examina-
tion, it is found that this very pretended exposure is a
deception, afraud
upon the public confidence, and a base ruse to make money, as moan
and dishonest, and a thousand times more so, than it' it were filched from
your pocket. He who steals your money
"
steals trash," but he who is
the means of deceiving you with regard to the plzilosoplay ofyour being,
and the laws of life, does you a
greater injury and one which may cause
you more misery than all the riches of earth would ever do you good.
ls
LETTER II.
Boston, July 15, 1845.
Deas Sir,—Before I point out the contradictions and falsehoods of
this writer, it may be necessary for me to premise, that, though for more
than twent}" years I have been a firm believer in that form of human in-
jluence denominated " Mesmeiism," or " Magnetism," I have not been
in the habit of speaking of it under either of these terms. Mesmer him-
self never put one person into a state of somnambulism. He operated
by what is called the '•
passes," and with trees, ropes, bottles of water,
wires, and many other things, by which he produced certain strange
effects, hke comiilsions, but he never induced that state of Coma, more
recently denominated " sleep-waking," and for this reason, it has always
seemed to me very unsuitable to c^U this state " Mesmeric sleep.''' The
first instance of this sleep, in the days of Mesmer, was produced by
Pysegar, and there is no evidence to prove that Mesmer ever induced
any such condition, during the whole course of his operations. And,
for a similar reason, I have not been accustomed, as you know, to caU
this sleep a " magnetic " state, or the influence by which it is induced,
" magnetism." In the second volume of the Magnet, and also in my
work,* I have given what is believed to be the true philosophy of this
subject, and shown that there are no appreciable reasons for calling it
•'
Magnetism," and least of all ^''Animal !Magne^lsm." Those reasons
put forth in my work, it may not be necessary, perhaps, to repeat here,
but merely to say, that it seems always most appropriate, when speaking
of new things, to use names the most expressive of their true nature and
laws, and as this influence is universally acknowledged by all to partake
of the nature of mental or physical sympathy^ I make use of a similar
*Pathetism; with Practical Instructions. Demonstrating the falsity of the
hitherto prevaJent assumptions in regard to what has been called " Mesmerism
"
and " Neurology," and illustrating those Laws which induce Somnambulism,
Second Sight, Sleep, Dreaming, Trance, and Clairvoyance, with numerous
facts tending to show the Pathology ofMonomania, Insanity, Witchcraft, and raxi-
ous other Mental or ^Nervous Phenomena. For sale by Redding & Co., No. 8
State St., Boston. Price 2-5 cents. It may be sent by rriGil to anv part of the
United States, subject only to pamphlet postage.
LETTER. II.
Boston, Jtmf 15, IS-15.
DEAR Sm,-Befc-re I po;nf out the contradictions and falseheods of
gg; wriier, it nzajv he necessary for me to premise, thai, though for more
£1311 twenty fears I have been a believer L11 thai form of Truman in-
fliiiiffifé' denominated
"
]Iesn1e1lsn1," oi'
þÿ"}Ingne ¬isn1,"
I have not been
in the habit of speakizg of' it zznier either of these terms. Mcsrncr him~
seffuever put one person into a state of solmmambzxlism. He operated
by what is þÿC3.I: ¬7;
the "
passes," and with frees, ropes, boitfes of vraier,
"vires, and r;1sr.}' Of11'§1` thing, 'ay which he pr;-fzzced cerinin sirange
.-
""
A.. '-'-F
~.:ICCI:_~, MM: CGrzvufsiszzs, but Iii never i;1*;'11cef§ thai state of Cema, more
:'eeent3y denolzzilmied
"
sleep-Wifiing," and for 'dis reason, it has always
seernefl to nie "ew ';ns':itabfe 1-3 eafl this sfaée
"
þÿ§|I ¬sr:: ¬.="fc
þÿ3? ¬ ¬J_D." The
nrst instance of :his sfeep, as the days of 3If:5Ll'l&1', was
produced bv
Pysegir, ani :Ixete is no C~.'i'li-r_ee to
;:~rsve tI1e.t)Iesn1e1' ever induced
1121- -32-gh cj-gfifiggj f1';`!f",§ il? WIICIQ ('C`_Il`5'f UI" LIS þÿ0P'?i`f]. ¬ICIES. _bifid-
_ I. .
53: e sf;:1ife_;° "e:_sf:-rl, I Iieve :TTT 1[C°'f11 ;'_f:':'1s1c1.;;?:1, as
3-211 knew, to call
rljs seen e
'°
;:1e_"::efie
"
site. Cr tfte i;:;I'_'§nee Irv v'T'_§ef1 it is induced.
L D f
»
-
"
:'n?_f-:3et's;"." In the þÿs;-2 ¬;'__`_x'o"_:':_ze cf' the I"-Iegnet, and afso in mv
xv-:Lic I}:?.ve given wif' 1; `t--1 _ievsi to ':: the n",'e
pfifesoplzy of this
e';'3_'e»;'t, eff. s1'_':"'n TTT? ff;_"i *Tc :tc
z1jj7:'3e'n'J`_i retrscrs for calling it
'°JI:'_:;1ifis;'.1," e:_,_f feast 2-:`: T. '°_i;:' "rf ][:";:::"sm." These reasons
T; f'"="t§: fn :Ly xt'-1 ji, 11. _;t 'Je ;:
:Q-Essery, fzflzaj-s, to
re§»se,1 here,
i_1_ 1i'_::'e1§' tv s'?_v_ T11-ei fi se-;'i__> nIve.§'s þÿ:;_s ¬
aipj; :jrfat-1, Whtn speaking
LI" þÿ.1?'~' ¬?.1nz;.
to :se ni"-'_-as 1`.e :ne-st
"§X?f'_-'?S{'E cfthefr fi uf rmrurf and
`av's. ani as iftls ._ is _1:.''e:°s':`f}' erhuzzmfedgei Hy all to partake
~+°' r` 'n»1)+:'|°:` 51 ,hi T /gn .
'
1
'
?_q=»~ 13:1 I I'
~»~p f' ~.; Q'
,. .., _ cl .... .a. ._1
__ jsiccr ._ ..},a _;, mane _.s- c a r>.!'I1..L11'
'
þÿPat.1 ¬ ¬'s_n:
"'1'_. Frzcz lnszructims. Dc-rrmnstraiing the fafsltjr nf the
..`t}1'ar"~ þÿpre.'ff_Ie!: ¬
ass;_z;pt"_ns= in regard to w:f;¢=t has been called *'
Mesrnerism
"
;r_'i '=Ye'..rclt;j'.' :ti-L fff';sir'1f':_g these Laws which fmiuce S=:~r_nnambu1ism,
i`~':"'f` Sf;"_'. S _ D: "':"r;. Trance, and Cf':§r"'j;m7f_ vriqh n-Img]-ous
',r "
:'.f"~»;*' sf °
~-: *Ile P 'F I gf' <f'}I:r.' _;:=r}f1, Insaz, þÿ\" ¬'r7'cr';~ft,
and va;-1-
its
'
't M _*I v 35:7 is Pit `._,'IIf`1'l"_ F':' sale IT Rfijg & Ce., So. S
raft* '~
. B etfn. Fic- is-1 ~:_":.ts_ It IT1`_'`I`13 sent Hg: -on 7 ta any part of the
If. .- .l '55 "L :._`._ -ci
`
'
2' pzrrfhlef p¢.¢"frgr
"CONFESSIONS OF A MAGNETISER " EXPOSED. 7
term, Pathetism^ expressive of this philosophy, and to signify not only
the AGENCY by which one person is enabled to produce emotion^ feeling,
passion, or any physical or mental effects, in the system of another, but
also that susceptibility of emotion or feeling, of any kind, in the sub-
ject operated upon.
You will, therefore, please to bear in mind, that when I use any of
the ordinary terms, as " Mesmerism," or " Animal Magnetism," I bor-
row them from this writer whom I am reviewing, as a matter of conve-
nience, and not because I either believe in the notions he puts forth
about the " nervo-vital fluid," or would sanction the use of these terms
when speaking of the functions and susceptibilities of the nervous sys-
tem. During the last four years, I have induced a state of somnambu-
lism, or what I denominate liypnojpathy (sympathetic sleep) in more than
fifteen hundred cases, and on more than thirty of these persons surgical
operations have been performed, without the consciousness of pain.
Through this influence, I have permanently cured numerous cases of
insanity, and many other forms of nervous difficulty. Besides my work,
before referred to, you well know, that for some two years I published
and edited a periodical devoted expressly to this subject, and which af-
forded me unusual facilities for becoming familiar with operators in
other parts of this country and Europe ; so that I have had extraordinary
means for knowing what has been done, and the views entertained in
other parts of the world upon this subject. And to the above I may add,
that for a number of years I have been in the habit of importing about
every thing published in England and France upon this philosophy.
Nor is this all ; for some two years before I commenced writing or pub-
licly lecturing upon Pathetism, I devoted my time, wholly, to a course of
experimental study, in the investigation of the theories prevalent un-
der the names " Mesmerism," " Magnetism," and " Neurology." At
considerable expense, and in the use of Electricity, Galvanism, and
mineral Magnetism, for years I was prosecuting my inquiries, for the
purpose of ascertaining the real nature of this agency, so that I think it
not unreasonable for me to suppose, that during this time, and with the
facilities above referred to, I must have possessed advantages for arriv-
ing at the truth on this subject, which warrants the conclusion, that if I
do not know as much about it as some others, it must be for the want of
a well developed brain, and not for the want of time, nor expense, nor
" experience," nor opportunities of finding out what it is.
The great difficulty with most whom I have known, or heard of, who
have set up for " practical magnetizers " and public lecturers on this sub-
"conrssstons or A iracnsrissrv' nxrosro. 7
term, Paths!-ism, expressive of this philosophy, and to signify not only
the acsncr by which one
person is enabled to produce emotiomfeeling,
passion, or
any physical or mental eftects, in the system of another, but
also that SUSCEl'TIBII=ITY of emotion or
feeling, of any kind, in the sub-
ject operated upon.
You Will, therefore, please to bear in mind, that when I use any of
the ordinary terms, as
"
Mesmerism," or
"
Animal Magnetism," I bor-
row them from this writer whom I am reviewing, as a matter of conve-
nience, and not because Ieithe1' believe in the notions he puts forth
about the "nerve-vital iluid," or would sanction the use of these terms
when speaking of the functions and susceptibilities of the nervous
sys-
tem. During the last four years, I have induced a state of somnambu~
lism, or what I denominate lz-ypnopailiy (sympathetic sleep) in more than
fifteen hundred cases, and on more than thirty of these persons surgical
operations have been performed, without the consciousness of pain.
Through this in1lnence,I have permanently cured numerous eases of
insanity, and many other forms of nervous
difficulty. Besides my work,
before referred to, you well know, that for some two years I published
and edited a
periodical devoted expressly to this subject, and which af-
forded me unusual facilities for becoming familiar with operators in
other parts of' this country and Europe ; so that I have had extraordinary
means for knowing what has been done, and the views entertained in
other parts of the world upon this subject. And to the above I may add,
that for a number of years I have been in the habit of importing about
every thing published in England and France upon this philosophy.
Nor is this all ; for some two years before I commenced writing or
pub-
liely lecturing upon Pathetism,I devoted my time, wholly, to a course of
experimental study, in the investigation of the theories prevalent un-
der the names "Mesmerism,"
"
Magnetism," and "
Neurology." At
considerable expense, and in the use of _Electric-ity, G-eleenism, and
minerad Jlfegnetisfn, For yearsI was
prosecuting my inquiries, for the
purpose of ascertaining the real nature of this agency, so that I think it
not unreasonable for me to suppose, that during this time, and with the
facilities above referred to, I must have possessed advantages for arriv-
ing at the truth on this subject, which warrants the conclusion, that if I
do not know as much about it as some others, it must be for the want of
a well developed brain, and not for the want of time, nor
expense, nor
"
experience," nor
opportunities of finding out what it is.
The great difficulty with most wholn I have known, or heard of, who
have set up for "
practical magnetizers
°'
and public lecturers on this sub-
8 "CONFESSIONS OF A MAGNETIZER " EXPOSED.
ject, has been, they do not seem ever to have experimented, at all, for the
purpose of finding out the true nature of this agency. They have never
attempted to test the truth of the old notions about a " fluid," and hence
their want of a knowledge of the true philosophy of the nervous func-
tions. A man, to excel as a mechanic, is under the necessity of devot-
ing seven years, or more, to the study and practice of the " mysteries "
of his art. But here and there we see men who do not know enough
' of the science of language, to tell what they mean by a " nervo-vital
fluid ;" men who have scarcely brains enough to originate or put two
ideas together, and who positively could not give an intelligent descrip-
tion of any thing, yet such persons are often found announcing them-
selves as " Practical Magnetizers," or public lecturers on the " Philoso-
phy of Life," and dubbing themselves as " Doctors," " Professors," and
the like. Indeed, the public are beginning to take it diS prima facia evi-
dence of a greenhorn or a sap-head, when they see an operator an-
nouncing himself as " Dr. ," or " Professor , from New
York," or " Boston," or " Philadelphia," &c. &c. &c. Nor could we
scarcely conceive of a greater display in the ludicrous, than when we see
the names of these " Drs." and " Professors " exhibited on showbills,
offering to " examine diseases " by a " clairvoyant subject," or to give
a " Course of Lectures on the suUime science of Animal Magnetism !
!"
To perform a few experiments may be a very easy thing. But this
done, and anon we have the soi-disant " Dr." or " Professor," giving
lectures on a science more intricate, more difficult of attainment, a thou-
sand times, than that of Mathematics or Astronomy. And yet, upon the
mysterious functions of the nervous system, and the laws of mind, you
will frequently find persons setting themselves up as teachers and
" practical magnetizers," with the gravity of " an owl in ivy bush."
And then comes the long harangue, as in the pamphlet before us, about
the " nervo-vital fluid," the " will," the " passes," &c. &c. &c. And,
last of all, comes one of these " Drs.," or " practical magnetizers," with
a flourish of trumpets, begging the sale of his ninepenny book, under the
pretence that he, more wise or honest than all the rest, had really dis-
covered a cheat in the thing ; but, being very modest, and detailing cer-
tain "-Animal^' propensities quite prevalent in his own heart, he is, of
-course, ashamed to put his name to it.*
* 1 think I could give the name of the writer of this pamphlet, and, as a mat-
ter o^ curiosity, I may do so, in another work I am preparing for the press pro-
vided he will consent to have me add a chapter of his real history, as I received
it from one who knows him well ! It is an old proverb, " Follow not too near
the heels of truth, lest she dash your teeth out."'
S "CONFESSIONS OF A MAGNETIZIER" EXPOSED.
ject, has been, they do not seem ever to have experimented, at all, forthe
purpose of finding out the true nature of this agency. They have never
attempted to test the truth of the old notions about a
"
iiuid," and hence
their want of a
knowledge ef' the true
philosophy of the nervous func-
tions. A man, to excel as a
mechanic, is under the necessity of devot-
ing seven
years, or more, to the study and practice ofthe "
mysteries
"
of his art. But here and there we see men who do not know enough
of the science of language, to tell what they mean
by a "nerve-vital
fluid ;" men who have scarcely brains enough to originate or
put two
ideas together, and who positively could not give an
intelligent descrip-
tion of any thing, yet such persons are often found announcing them-
selves as
"
Practical lVlagnetizers," or
public lecturers on the "
Philoso-
phy of Life," and dubbing themselves as
"
Doctors," "
Professors," and
the like. Indeed, the public are
beginning to take it as
primafacfia evi-
dence of a
greenkofrn or a
sap-head, when they see an
operator an-
nouncing himself' as
"
Dr. -," or
"
Professor ---, from New
York," or
"
Boston," or
"
Philadelphia," &c. &c. &c. Nor could we
scarcely conceive of a
greater display in the ludicrous, than when we see
the names of these "
Drs." and "
Professors "'
exhibited on
showbills,
offering to
"
examine diseases
"
by a
"
elairvoyant subject," or to give
a
"
Course of Lectures on the .artful-into science of rin-ima! Magnetism ! l"
To perform a fevv experiments may be a
very easy thing. But this
done, and anon we have the sei-ctisa-nt "
Dr." or
"
Professor," giving
lectures on a science more intricate, more tlifiicult of attainment, a thou-
sand times, than that of Mathematics or
Astronomy. And yet, upon the
mysterious functions of the nervous
system, and the laws of mind, you
will frequently find persons setting themselves up as teachers and
"practical magnetizers," with the gravity of "
an owl in ivy bush."
And then comes the long harangue, as in the pamphlet before us, about
the "
nerve-vital fluid," the "
will," the "
passes," &c. &e. &c. And,
last of' all, comes one of' these "
Drs," or
"
practical magnetizers," with
a flourish of trumpets, begging the sale of his ninepenny book, under the
pretence that he, more wise or honest than all the rest, had really dis-
covered a cheat in the thing; but, being very modest, and detailing cer-
tain "
Animal
"
propensities quite prevalent in his own
heart, he is, of
course, ashamed to put his name to it*
*'
I think I could give the name ofthe writer of this pamphlet, and, as fi mst.
ter of curiosity, I may do so, in another work I am
preparing for the press, pro-
videcl he will consent to have me add ai
chapter of his reel history, as I received
it from one who knows him well ! It is an old proverb, "
Follow not too neat'
the heels of truth, lest she dash your teeth out."
" CONFESSIONS OF A MAGNETIZER " EXPOSED. 9
He begins by telling us, first, that he narrates " facts," and secondly,
that they " had all been experienced by the author." That he did " ex-
perience " the predominance of certain " animal " propensities, when
*'
placed opposite a young and lovely female," and that he was the mag-
netizer who did actually " choose his wife among his subjects," we are
bound to believe, from his own showing. But, that his gross ignorance
of the subject upon which he puts himself before the public as a teacher,
or that his strong " animal " propensities should pass and be taken for
the true philosophy of mind^ I cannot admit, by any means. The guise
thrown over his attempt, is too thin to hide the deformity within. The
merest novice might discover the ignorance and deception exhibited upon
almost every page of this pamphlet, which, so far from exposing any
thing objectionable in the thing about which he professes to write, ex-
poses the weakness of his own head, and shows how utterly unfit he ever
was to be a " magnetizer," and still more, how unsafe it was for any
" young and lovely female " to be placed any where within his reach.
Never were the words of the poet more strikingly exemplified than in
the case of this self-styled " practical magnetizer :"
" Lust^ though to a radiant angel linked,
Will satiate itself in a celestial bed,
And prey on garbage.
But virtue never will be moved,
Though lewdness court it in the garb of heaven."
When a man writes a book of fifty pages, and publishes to the world
that he never could sit " opposite a female," or come near to them, and
especially that he could not look one in the eye, without having
" Unlawful thoughts of many things,"
is such a man to be accredited, when he attempts to palliate his own
crimes by affecting to show that every other man is like himself, and
that every lady is precisely of the same character as those whose
" eyes have closed " on him " in dreamy and spiritual affection ^
"
Set him down as a weak-brother, " a practical " any thing but a teacher
of the laws of mind. He may, perchance, be a good man, but ten
thousand chances to the contrary. Beside " a young and lovely female "
his heart melts like butter before the fire, and he is just silly enough to
imagine every other person like himself. Such is this anonymous
author, who comes before the public with his " Confessions !" and to
"CONFESSIONS OF A þÿlIAGi* ¬E'1`1ZEIi."EXPOSED. 9
He begins by tolling us, first, that he narrates
"
thcts," and secondly,
that they
"
had all been experienced by the author." That he did "
ex-
perience
"
the predominance of certain "animal "
propcnsitles, when
"
placed opposite a
young and lovely female," and that he was the mag-
netizer who did actually "choose his wife among his subjects," we are
bound to believe, from his own
sliowing. But, that his gross ignorance
of the subject upon which he puts himself before the public as a teacher,
or that his strong
"
animal
"
propensities should pass and be taken for
the true philosophy qfmiml, l cannot admit, by any means. The guise
thrown over his attempt, is too thin to hide the deformity within. The
merest novice might discover the ignorance and deception exhibited upon
almost every page of this pamphlet, which, so far from exposing any
thing objectionable inthe thing ahout which he profcsses to write, ex-
poses the weakness of' his own head, and shows how utterly unfit he ever
was to hc a
"
magnetizcr," and still more, how unsafe it was for any
"
young and lovely female
"
to be placed any where within his reach.
Never were the ivords of the poet more
strikingly exemplified than in
the case of' this seltistyled
"
practical magnetizer :"
"
Lust, though to a radiant angel linked,
"fill satiate itself' in a celestial bed,
And prey on
garbage.
But virtue never will be moved,
Though lewdness court it in the garb of heaven."
Vifhen a man writes a book of fifty pages, and publishes to the world
that he never could sit °'
opposite a female," or come near to them, and
especially that he could not look one in the eye, without having
"
Unlawful thoughts of many things,"
is such a man to be accredited, when he attempts to palliate his own
crimes by affecting to show that every other man is like himself, and
that every lady is precisely of the same character as those whose
"eyes have closed" on him "
in dreamy and spiritual aH`cction?"
Set him down as a weak-brother,
"
a
practical
"
any thing but a_tcacher
of the laws of mind. He may, perchance, be a
good man, but ten
thousand chances to the contrary. Beside "
a
young and lovely female "
his heart melts like butter before the fire, and he is just silly enough to
imagine every other person like liimself. Such is this anonymous
author, who comes before the public with his "Confessions 1" and to
10 "CONFESSIONS OF A MAGNETIZER^' EXPOSED.
make them sell, sticks out his shingle as " a practical magnetizer,'' when
the soft-head never put a person into a real state of somnambulism since
he was bom, probably ; that he never put one person to sleep in the
manner he describes, I know. The thing was never done in that way,
never ; and he but shows his ignorance in supposing (if, indeed, he does
believe) the truth of what he says*
10 "CONFESSIONS OF A MAGNETIZER" EXPOSED.
make them sell, sticks out his shingle as
"
a
practical magnetizer," when
the soft-head never
put a
person into a real state of somnambulism since
he was born, probably; that he never put one
person to sleep in the
manner he describes, I know. The thing was never done in that way,
never; and he but shows his ignorance in supposing (if, indeed, he does
believe) the truth of what he says.
LETTER III.
Boston, July 16, 1845.
Dear Sir,—Nothing can be more evident, than that this " practical
Animal Magnetizer " was deceived, if he did fully believe the truth
of his details ; and being himself deceived, of course he will deceive
others just as much as they may confide in the truth of his statements.
He says
:
" I am one of those who believe that there is a certain will within the cultiva-
tion of every powerful mind, which may be so exercised over the dormant pow-
ers of another, as to render the person, for the time being, subject to the wish
of the active agent."
The meaning here is, that merely by the will^ without contact, or
without signifying the intention to the subject, one person may over-
come another never operated upon before, and throw him into a state of
unconscious sleep ! And, upon this assumption, this writer goes on to
tell us of cases in which he says he induced the sleep merely by his
will^ where the persons had no suspicion of his design ; and even he
himself, he tells us, was put to sleep in this same way ! Now, I pro-
nounce this whole representation about the vnll a sheer fabrication^ a
deception^ defraud. A state of sleep was never induced in this way,
that is, by the will, merely, where the person had never been operated
on before, and when he had no apprehension, at the time, of what was
going on. It would be a libel on the Author of our being to suppose
such a result possible ! It is what never was done, and what never can
be done. Remember, I am not, noio, speaking of tohat may he done, hy
the WILL, toithout the patienfs knoivledge, after he has been once oper-
ated upon, and the sleep brought on ; though I believe the sleep is
scarcely, if ever, induced without the patient's knowledge, even after
they have been put to sleep many times. I am aware, that operators
have sometimes thought it was induced in this way, but I am certain they
were deceived. But at first, I affirm, without the fear of contradiction,
that without the patient's knowledge (and consent, direct or indirect,)
no impression was ever made upon him by the mere volition of another.
LETTER III.
BOSTON, JULY 16, 1845.
Drain SIR,-Nothing can be more evident, than that this "
practical
Jlnimaf Magnctizer" was deceived, if hc did fully believe the truth
of his details; and being himself deceived, of course he will deceive
others just as much as
they may confide in the truth of his statements.
He says :
"I am one of those who believe that there is a certain will Within the cultiva-
tion of every powerful mind, which may be so exercised over the dormant pow-
ers of another, as to render the person, for the time being, subject to the wish
of the active agent,"
The meaning here is, that merely by the will, without contact, or
Without s'ig~n12fy'ing the intention to the subject, one
person may over-
come another never operated upon before, and throw him into a state of
unconscious sleep! And, upon this assumption, this writer goes on to
tell us of cases in which he says he induced the sleep merely by his
will, where the persons had no
suspicion of his design; and even he
himself, he tells us, was
put to sleep in this same
way! Now, I pro-
nounce this whole representation about the will a sheer fabrication, a
deception, a fraud. A state of sleep was never induced in this way,
that is, by the will, merely, where the person had never been operated
on before, and when he had no
apprehension, at the time, of what was
going on. It would be a libel on the Author of our
being to suppose
such a result possible I It is what never was done, and what never can
be done. Remember, I am noi, now, speaking of :chat may be clone, by
the WILL, without the pat'ienZ's knowledge, AFTER he has been once OPCT-
ated npon, and the sleep orongltt on; though I believe the sleep is
scarcely, if' ever, induced without the patient's knowledge, even after
they have been put to
sleep many times. I am aware, that operators
have sometimes thought it was induced in this way, but I am certain they
were deceived. But at first, I affirm, without the fear of contradiction,
that without the patient's knowledge (and consent, direct or indirect,}
no impression was ever made upon him by the mere volition of another.
12 "CONFESSSIONS OF A MAGNETIZER" EXPOSED.
And this writer's silly stories about his having put certain young ladie'S
to sleep, merely by his will, and induced them to love himself or others,
is Si farce, a deception, of which any person may be easily satisfied by
the trial. The truth appears to be, this writer wanted to make a show
of an expose of something, and so he takes the old and long exploded
notions about " a nervo-vital fluid," and the power of the will, and, fab-
ricating a few silly cases, he pretends to have done by his will certain
things, which he never did do, and which he could not do, if he would ;
and on the prejudice which generally has prevailed on this subject, he
makes a show of great danger from ^'Animal Magnetism," as if his sto-
ries should be credited as the sober truth, by any intelligent person
who might read them. How the sleep, when it is induced, is brought
on, I may show in the sequel ; but it is never produced, at first, without
the patient's knowledge, by the mere will of the operator —never!
This writer betrays his ignorance, again, when he assumes to dogma-
tize on the power of " sympathy," and represents that the subject in a
state of somnambulism, " reflects the mind of the operator, or the per-
son with whom he is in communication." This is true only in a very
few, rare cases, and then only in a limited degree. Ordinarily, the
sleep-waker has no conception of the operator'^s will, except ichen it is
expressed in loords or signs. This I know to be a fact. And hence it
is manifest, that when this writer speaks of certain feelings having been
manifested by the females whom he says he put to sleep, if he speaks
the truth, he said or did something to excite those feelings, over and
above what was necessarj'' to induce the state of sleep.
Of course, our " Animal magnetizer " professes to be " honest." Hear
him
" As T propose to be honest in this expose, 1 will frankly acknowledge, that
when I found out the deception that had been practiced upon me, and in which
I had been an innocent agent of deception to others, I did not do as I should
have done. I was ashamed to acknowledge my error, being actuated by a false
pride, which led me to cleave to falsehood, rather than acknowledge my error."
What, pray, was the " deception " practiced upon this confiding
youth, this paragon of purity ? It was not that " Magnetism " was not
true ; for, in the truth of this agency consists the whole gist of his book.
It was not that he was not an " Animal Magnetizer " of the first water,
for he tells us he " had loved a hundred times,'^'' and a hundred different
females, and that he even procured his present wife by putting her to
sleep and " willing " her to love him ! In what, then, are we to under-
12 "CONFESSSIONS OF A NIAGNETIZER" EXPOSED.
And this writer's silly stories about his having put certain young ladies
to sleep, merely by his will, and induced them to love himself' or others,
is afarce, a
deception, of which any person may be easily satisfied by
the trial. The truth appears to be, this writer wanted to make a show
of an expose of something, and -so he takes the old and long exploded
notions about "
a nerve-vital fluid," and the power ofthe will, and, fab-
ricating a, few silly cases, he pretends to have done by his will certain
things, which he never did do, and which he could not do, if he would ;
and on the prejudice which generally has prevailed on this subject, he
makes a show off great danger from "Animal Magnetisin," as if' his sto-
ries should be credited as the sober truth, by any intelligent person
who might read them. How the sleep, when it is induced, is brought
on, I may show i11 the sequel 5 but it is never
produced, at first, without
the patient's knowledge, by the mere will of the operator- nsvsal
This writer betrays his ignorance, again, when he assumes to
dogma-
tize on the power of "
sympathy," and represents that the subject in a
state of somnambulism,
"
reflects the mind of the operator, or the per-
son with whom he is in communication." This is true only in a very
few, rare cases, and then only in a limited degree. Ordinarily, the
sleep-walter has no
conception ofthe operator`s will, except when 'it 'ES
esqwessed in words or
signs. This I lcnowto be a fact. And hence it
is manifest, that when this writer speaks of certain feelings having been
manifested by the females whom he says he put to sleep, if he speaks
the truth, he said or did something to excite those feelings, over and
above what was
necessary to induce the state of sleep.
Of Course, our
"
Animal magnetizer
"
professes to be "'l1onest." Heal'
him: ._
"
As I propose to be honest in this expose, 1 will frankly acknowledge, that
when I found out the deception that had been practiced upon ine, and in which
I had been an innocent agent of deception to others, I did not do as I should
have done. I was ashamed to acknowledge my error, being actuated by a false
pride, which led me to cleave to falsehood, rather than acknowledge my error."
`What, pray, was the "
deception
"
practiced upon this contiding
youth, this paragon of purity P It was not that "
Magnetism
"
was not
true; for, in the truth of this agency' consists the whole gist of his book.
lt was not that he was not an
"
flnimal .llfagnetizer
"
of the lirst Water,
for he tells us he "
had loved a ltundred times," and a hundred different
females, and that he even
procured his present wife by putting her to
sleep and "
willing
"
her to love him 1 ln what, then, are we to under-
"CONFESSIONS OF A MAGNETIZER" EXPOSED. 13
Stand the " deception " consists ? " O," says he, " there is vice to be
feared^ as concealed under the cloak of Magnetism ! !
" " Vice to be
feared !
" And how does this appear ? Why, this precocious youth
had so much of the " animal " himself, and took such frequent advan-
tages of the opportunities which his peculiar process of " Magnetising "
afforded him, to indulge his " animal " propensities, that he now comes
to the wise conclusion to turn a penny by his depravity, in writing and
selling a book on the subject ! Nor will any one doubt, I think, for one
moment, that if all men were like this writer, it would be better for phy-
sicians, clergymen, and all others, to be separated wholly from all inter-
course with the fairer sex, " for fear that some vice might be concealed
beneath the cloak " of the profession. He tells us he " had loved a hun-
dred ti?nes, ay, and with his lohole heart,'''' while sitting " opposite
young and lovely females," for the purpose of " magnetizing " them. No
doubt of it. The " critter " has so much of the " animal " in him, that
no one could doubt this part of his story.
The sickening details told in chapters 5, 6 and 7, about " Helen " and
" Milton," though evidently fabricated for the occasion, show off the
hypocrisy of this writer, to the life. He feigned a knowledge of physi-
ognomy, and told the young lady whom he deceived, that it was " the only
science that is not made the foundation of some humbug ;" and this he told
her while he was humbugging her, that very moment, and now he at-
tempts to humbug the public by a most miserably written, silly story
about it.
In chapter 3d, this wiseacre makes a number of false statements about
myself, which shows his ignorance both of my theory and my manner
of operating in my public lectures. His directions for causing the
sleep by " a bow-knot of ribbon pinned to the wall," is given as a rev-
elation of a great secret, just as if such a process had not been published
in the Magnet years ago, and the explanation which he gives of it far-
ther shows that his knowledge of the human mind, and the effects which
one's o|vn attention has upon his nervous system, is scarcely up to medi-
ocrity. Indeed, the jumble he makes of effects produced in this way,
and those produced (as he thinks) by the human will, is enough to
show, that Mental Philosophy was unfortunate indeed when seized upon
by this " Animal Magnetizer," —more so than the " silly women " whom
he tells us he " led captive at his will," " laden with sins, led away with
divers lusts." But, we are told, that " the folly of such shall be mani-
fest unto all."
"CONFESSIONS or A MAoNEr1zf;a" sxrosso. 13
stand the "
deception" consists P
"
O," says he,
"
there is vice to be
feared, as concealed under the cloak of' Magnetism I I
" "
Vice to be
feared I
"
And how does this appear? Why, this precocious youth
had so much of the "
animal
"
himself, and took such frequent advan-
tages uf' the opportunities which his pf'rai!'z`ar process of "
Magi.etising"
afforded him, to indulge his "
a;m'mal
"
propensities, that he now comes
to the wise conclusion to turn a
penny by his depravity, in writing and
selling a book on the subject I Nor will any one doubt, I think, for one
moment, that if all men were like this writer, it would be better for phy-
sicians, clergyman, and all others, to be separated wholly from all inter-
course vrith the fairer sex,
"
for fear that some vice might be concealed
beneath the cloak" of the profession. He tells us he "
had loved a hun-
dred times, ay, and with his -whole heart," while sitting
"
opposite
young and lovely females," forthe purpose of "
magnetizing
"
them. No
doubt of it. The "
critter
"
has so much of the "
animfzl
"
in him, that
no one could doubt this part of' his story.
The sickening details told in chapters 5, 6 and 7, about "
Helen
"'
and
"l`lilton," though evidently fabricated for the occasion, show off the
hypocrisy of this writer, to the life. Hefeigned a
knowledge of physi-
ognomy, and told the young lady whom he deceived, that it was
"
the only
science that is not made the foundation of some
humbug ;" and this he told
her while he was
humbugging her, that very moment, and now he at~
tempts to humhug the public by a most miserably written, silly story
about it.
ln chapter 3d, this wiseacre makes a number of false statements about
myself, which shows his ignorance both of my theory and my manner
of operating in my public lectures. His directions For causing the
sleep by
"
a bow-knot of ribbon pinned to the wall," is given as a rev-
elation of a
great secret, just as it' such a
process had not been published
in~the Magnet years ago, and the explanation which he gives of it far-
ther shows that his knowledge of the human mind, and the effects '~'lllCll
one's own attention has upon his nervous
system, is scarcely up to medi-
ocrity. Indeed, the jumble he makes of effects produced in this way,
and those produced (as he thinks) by the human will, is enough to
show, that Mental Philosophy was unfortunate indeed when seized upon
by this "
Ana?-mel Magnetizer," -
more so than the "
silly women
"
whom
he tells us he "
led captive at his will," "laden with sins, led away with
divers lusts." But, we are told, that
"
the folly of such shall be mani-
fest unto all."
2
LETTER IV.
Boston, July 16, 1845.
Dear Sir —Having exposed the ignorance, falsehood, and humbug-
ry of the pamphlet under notice, I will now give you a very brief
account of the rationale of what has been known under the name of
" Mesmerism," and, in doing this, I shall not only further show the false-
hood of this pamphlet, but you will see, from my remarks, that I not
only discard the old futile notions about " a nervo-vital fluid," but the
objectionable method of inducing the sleep, by gazing the patient in the
eyes, taking hold of the thumbs, and making the passes over the body.
These mummeries were discarded, years ago, by intelligent operators in
every part of the country, and they are now only resorted to by those
who believe in the old notions of di fluid.
The greatest mistake made in relation to what has been denominated
'•''
Mesmerism," has been in viewing it as something essentially different
from the ordinary influence which one mind has always been known to
have over another. A correction of this misapprehension will put you
upon the right course of investigation for ascertaining loliat this agency
or influence is. Those who have produced certain results by what has
been called " Animal Magnetism," have been most egregiously bewil-
dered and deceived, by the assumption about a fluids said to be elimi-
nated out of one brain, by the will of the operator, into the nervous
system of the patient. As I have sifted this question, I believe, to the
bottom, and made use of every available means for arriving at the truth,
it will not, perhaps, be thought strange that I should speak somewhat
confidently upon this subject. It would not be possible to comprise any
considerable outline of the course of reasoning which shows the futility
of the old theories about a fluid, nor is this necessary here, as I have done
what I believe to be ample justice to this subject in my book ; and in
another work, which I have in the course of preparation for the press,
I hope to be able to shed still more light upon what is denominated Path-
etism, or the " New Philosophy of Mind."
Before you can form an enlightened judgment of this influence, it
will be necessary to have some knowledge of the susceptibilities of the
LETTER IV.
Bos'roN, July 16, 1845,
DEAR SIR-Having exposed the ignorance, falsehood, and humbug=
ry of the pamphlet under notice, I will now give you a
very brief
account of the ratifonale of' what has been known under the name of
"
Mesmerism," and, in doing this, I shall not only further show the false-
hood of this pamphlet, but you will see, from my remarks, that I not
only discard the old futile notions about "
a nerve-vital fluid," but the
objectionable method of inducing the sleep, by gazing the patient in the
eyes, taking hold of' the thumbs, and making the passes over the body.
These mummeries were discarded, years ago, by intelligent operators in
every part of the country, and they are new
only resorted to by those
who believe in the old notions of a
jia-id.
The greatest mistake made in relation to what has been denominated
"
ilrfesmerisrn," has been in viewing it as
something essentially diferent
from the ordinary influence which one mind has always been known to
have over another. A correction of this misapprehcnsion will put you
upon the right eoui'se of investigation for ascertaining what Uris agency
or
injittence is. Those who have produced certain results by what has
been called "
Animal Magnetism," have been most egregiously bewil-
dered and deceived, by the assumption about a
_/laid, said to be elimi-
nated out of one brain, by the will of the operator, into the nervous
system ot' the patient. AsI have sifted this question, I believe, to the
bottom, and made use of every available means for arriving at the truth,
it will not, perhaps, be thought strange that Ishould speak somewhat
confidently upon this subject. It would not be possible to comprise any
considerable outline of' the course of reasoning which shows the futility
of the old theories about a fluid, nor is this necessary here, as I have done
what I believe to be ample justice to this subject in my book; and in
another work, which I have in the course of preparation for the press,
I hope to be able to shed still more
light upon what is denominated Path-
etism, or the
"
New Philosophy of' Mind."
Before you can form an
enlightened judgment of this influence, it
will be necessary to have some knowledge of the susceptibilities of the
WHAT IS IT? 15
nervous system ; and the identity ofthis system, with that aggregate of the
nervous functions to which we apply the term, mind. These prehmina-
ries understood, then ask yourself this question :
—
" Hoio, or hy what laws, does one mind affect another, in the common
concerns of life 7 Or, Tioio does your oion mind become affected, in any
given state ?-
"
The true answer will give you the philosophy of Pathetism, or what
has been denominated the " Mesmeric influence." The term " Human
Influence " would be much better, because the influence bv which I induce
a state of Somnambulism, Trance, or Catalepsy, is precisely the sam.e,
and depends upon the same conditions in the mind of the patient and
the operator, that allows of any sensation or emotion brought on by any
thing said, or done, for the purpose of producing any results.
Pathetism, then, includes all that is peculiar to a feeling of sympathy
or antipathy, joy or grief mirth or sadness, love or hatred, pride or
humility, adlitsiveness or aversion, health or disease, sleep or wakefulness,
when these states are brought upon one person, by something said or
done by another ; or when these states come on through the mind of the
patient, without any design of a second person to induce them.
Hence you will see upon how many different things, states, conditions,
circumstances, motives, &c., the results you may attempt to produce will
depend. The age, sex, temperament, health, state of the mind at the
time, are all concerned, and must be taken into the account, in determin-
ing the amount of influence which one may be able to exert over another
at any given time. But, as I have already stated, nothing can be
done, at first, without the patient's knowledge and consent —nothing at
all. Hence this great bugbear, conjured up by the " Animalists,"
vanishes " into thin air."
Nothing, perhaps, would tend more to demonstrate the falsity of the
hitherto prevalent notions about o. fluid in the production of the phenom-
ena current, under the term of " Mesmerism," than an examination of
the infinitely diversified effects alleged to have been produced by this
influence. Out of the tens of thousands of subjects operated upon, there
have never been found any two who were affected in all respects ex-
actly alike. At first view, to be sure, a superficial observer might take
these discrepances as so many evidences against the reality or utility of
the thing under notice. This, however, would not be the wiser course ;
the same objection might be brought against the treatment of disease by
medicine. There is, really, just as much uncertainty in the anticipated
results of medicine, just as much want of agreement among the medical
YVHAT IS ir? 15
nervous system ; andthe identity of this system, with that aggregate of' the
nervous functions to which we
apply the term, MIND. These prelimina-
ries understood, then ask yourself this question :-
"
How, or by what laws, does one :triad eject another, in the common
concerns of Zprc fl Or, how does your own. mind become ejected, in any
given state C?
The true answer will give you the philosophy of Paffzctisnt, or wha:
has been denominated the "
Mesmeric infiuence." The term "Human
73
influence "
would be much better, because the influence by which I induce
:1 state of Sonmambulism, Trance, or
Catalepsy, is precisely the same,
and depends upon the same conditions in the mind of' the patient and
the operator, that allows of' any sensation or emotion brought on
by any
thing said, or done, for the purpose of producing any results.
Pathetism, then, includes all that is peculiar to a
feeling of sympatfzy
or
ori.t.i,rJo.fL'.y, joy or
griojf mirth or .sod.=1o.ss,Zot2o or ltati"oc£,pr'£dc or
Fzanzifity, rzcU¢csit=cnc>ss or at-ersion, lzceltft or disease, Sleep or
zoakcjirlzzess,
when these states are
brought upon one person, by something said or
done by another; or when these states come on
through the mind of the
patient, without any design of a second person to induce them.
I-Ience you will see
upon how many different things, states, conditions,
circumstances, motives, 5:-e., the results you may attempt to produce will
depend. The age, sex, temperament, health, state of the mind at the
time, are all concerned, and must be taken into the account, in determin-
ing the amount of influence which one
may be able to exert over another
at any given time. But, as l have already stated, Nornme can bc
done, at first, without the patient's knowledge and consent -nothing at
all. Hence this
great bugbear, conjured up by the "
Animalists,"
vanishes "
into thin air."
Nothing, perhaps, would tend more to demonstrate the falsity of the
hitherto prevalent notions about a
ji-uid in the production of the phenom-
ena current, under the term of "
l'lesn'|e1'isn1,"' than an examination of
the infinitely tlirersgded eflects alleged to have been produced by this
influence. Out of the tens of thousands of' subjects operated upon, there
have never been found any two who were affected in all respects ex-
actly alike. At first view, to be sure, a
superficial observer might take
these discrepances as so
many evidences against the reality or
utility of
the thing under notice. This, however, would not be the wiser course ;
the same
objection might be brought against the treatment of' disease by
medicine. There is, really, just as much uncertainty in the anticipated
results of medicine, just as much want of agreement among the medical
16 WHAT IS IT?
faculty, and far more, than has ever prevailed among the advocates of
" Mesmerism."
The difference in the results of this influence do not prove that no re-
sults are actually produced, but they do prove, that they are not resolvable
into the laws which we know to be peculiar to magnetism or electricity.
In my work, I have entered somewhat in detail, into the examination of
this question, as to the medium of communication between mind and
mind, and to that work I must refer all who wish for further information
upon this feature of our subject. I have been much gratified, in reading
four very interesting papers, in the London Lancet, re-published for
April, May, June and July, 1845, bearing directly upon this point. They
were written by Dr. Charles E,. Hall, of the Royal College of Physicians,
London.* The Dr. has, evidently, never been considered favorable to
what has been known under the name of" Mesmerism," as he does not
seem to have been either a believer or an operator ; but the information
he has given in his papers on this subject, I venture to say, will tend
more to settle the question as to the real nature of this influence, than
any thing which has been previously published in England ; and it is to
be earnestly hoped, that the friends of this science (for so it is getting to be
called) will profit by the papers of Mr. Hall. The following are the con-
clusions at which his researches have brought his own mind. He says
" Of the alleged results of the Mesmeric process, I believe there are,
" Proved — Quietude, composure, sleep.
" Prohahle^ but requiring confirmation — Traction, convulsion,
heightened sensibility, diminished sensibility, double convulsions.
'"'' Possible ^ iut not very probable —Insensibility to severe pain, for
any given length of time, at pleasure.
" Impossible, as far as any thing can be so — Clairvoyance, intuition,
community of thought, involuntary and complete subjection of mind to
the mesmerizer.
" And, lastly, I believe, that we have not a shadow of evidence in sup-
port of the existence of any new agency, ivhether designated Mesmeric,
Magnetic, occult, or by any other name.''''
With the exception of his doubts on the question of clairvoyance, and
a modification of what he denies as to the " community of thought," and
insensibility to pain, you will perceive that Dr. Hall has but reiterated
* On the Rise, Progress, and Mysteries of Mesmerism, in all ages and
countries."
16 wvlmr IS IT?
faculty, and far more, than is ever
prevailed among the advocates of
"
Mesrnerisrn."
The difference in the results of this influence do not
prove that no re-
sults are
actually produced, but they do prove, that they are not resolvable
into the laws which we know to be peculiar to magnetism or
electricity.
In my work, I have entered somewhat in detail, into the examination of
this question, as to the medium of communication between mind and
mind, and to that work I must refer all who wish for further information
upon this feature of our subject. I have been much gratified, in reading
four very interesting papers, in the London Lancet, re-published for
April, May, June and July, 1845, bearing directly upon this point. They
were written by Dr. Charles R. Hall, of the Royal College of Physicians,
London* The Dr. has, evidently, never been considered favorable to
what has been known under the name of "
ll-Icsrnerism," as he does not
seem to have been either a believer or an
operator; but the information
he has given in his papers on this subject, I venture to say, will tend
more to settle the question as to the real nate-rc of this influence, than
any thing which has been previously published in England ; and it is to
be earnestly hoped, that the friends of this science (for so it is getting to be
called) will profit by the papers of ll/lr. Hall. The following are the con-
clusions at which his researches have brought his own rnind. He says:
"'
Of the alleged results of the Mesrneric process, I believe there are,
"
Pfoved- Quietude, composure, sleep.
"
Probable, bet requiring eocrjir-ree.t1§on -
Traction, convulsion,
heightened sensibility, diminished sensibility, double convulsions.
"Poss'ii'1le, but not 'very probehie --Insensibility to severe
pain, for
any given length of time, at pleasure.
"
Impossible, as
far' as
any timing can be so _
Clairvoyanee, intuition,
coniniunity of' thought, involuntary and complete subjection of mind to
the rnesmerizer.
"
And, lastly,I believe, that we have not a shadow of evidence in sup-
port fy" the existence of any new agency, whether designated Mesvneric,
Magfzetic, occult, or by any other name."
With the exception of his doubts on the question of clairvoyanee, and
a
modfificatfion of what he denies as to the "
community of thought," and
insensibility to pain, you will perceive that Dr. Hall has but reiterated
*On the Rise, Progress, and Mysteries of Mesmerism, in all ages and
countries."
WHAT IS IT? 17
the views published by myself years ago. It does not appear, that he
had ever seen or even heard of my theory ; but it is gratifying to find that
an opponent, when writing upon this subject, and especially, one who
had taken as much pains to inform himself, as Dr. Hall has done, should
come so very near to admitting the whole truth. Indeed, it would hardly
seem possible for any believer in " Mesmerism " to read the quotations
he has made from a vast number of writers upon this subject, and not
come to a similar conclusion with respect to the non-existence of any
new agency^ in the production of what are denominated Mesmeric re-
sults, or any such agency as " Mesmerists " have supposed, under the
names " Magnetism," or a " nervo-vital fluid."
In speaking of " Mesmerism " under the terms of an ''
agency," the
mind is apt to be misled ; because this gives the idea that it is something
separate and distinct from the mind itself. But this is the error to be
removed, before we can arrive at the truth of this subject, as you will see
more plainly on examination of my theory. The results produced by
" Magnetism," alioays depend upon the state of the patienVs mind, and
not so much upon the process adopted to induce them, nor upon the mere
WILL of the operator. The operator, therefore, who is the most ac-
quainted with the human mind and the nature of its susceptibilities, the
conditions of the nervous system, upon which mental manifestations de-
pend, will succeed the best, cccteris paribus, in producing any given re-
sults. He will be able, of course, to adapt his process of operating to
the occasion and condition of the patient, for the purpose of bringing
about the right state of mind. The mind depends upon the state of the
nervous system, ahoays, and they reciprocally affect each other. A
change in the condition of the nervous system produces a change in
the mind, and a change in the state of the mind, made through the ex-
ternal senses, or by any other means, produces a change in the nervous
system. Medicines, when taken into the stomach or applied to the sur-
face of the body, operate upon precisely the same susceptibilities of the
nervous system ; and hence it is that medicine produces no change in
the dead body, and sometimes it produces no change in the living body,
owing to the condition of the nervous susceptibilities when it is taken.
In cases of insanity, the ordinary symptoms of some diseases do not ap-
pear, and the ordinary methods of medical treatment produce no effect,
owing entirely to the state of the patient's mind, or the changed condi-
tion of the nervous susceptibilities.* A knowledge of these facts is of
* For evidence of the truth upon which the above statement is made, see
the London Lancet for October, 1844, re-published Ja7i., 1845, p, 17.
2*
WHAT is IT? 17
the views published by myself years ago. lt does not appear, that he
had ever seen or even heard ot' my theory; but it is gratifying to find that
an
opponent, when writing upon this subject, and especially, one who
had taken as much pains to inform hi1'nselt`, as Dr. Hall has done, should
come so
very near to admitting the whole truth. Indeed, it would hardly
seein
possible for any believer in "
Mesmerism
"
to read the quotations
he has made from a vast number ot' writers upon this subject, and not
come to a similar conclusion with respect to the non-existence of any
new agency, inthe production of what are denominated Mesrneric re-
sults, or
any such agency as
"
ll-lesmerists
"
have supposed, under the
names
"
ltlagnetism," or a
"
nerve-vital fluid."
ln speaking of "
Mesmerism
"'
under the terms of an
"
agency," the
mind is apt to be misled; because this gives the idea that it is something
separate and distinct from the mind itself. But this is the error to be
removed, before we can arrive at the truth of this subject, as
you will see
more
plainly on examination of my theory. The results produced by
"
Magnetism," always depend upon the .slate of the pafficnfs mind, and
not so much upon the process adopted to -induce Neem, noi* upon the mere
WILL of the operator. The operator, therefore, who is the most ae-
quainled 'vlfllh the human mind and the nature ot' its susceptibilities, the
eonditionslol' the nervous
system, upo_n which mental manil`estations de-
pend, will succeed the best, cwlierfis par-lines, in producing any given re»
suits. He will be able, of course, to adapt his process of operating to
the occasion and condition of' the patient, for the purpose of bringing
about the right state of mind. The mind depends upon the state of the
nervous
system, always, and they reciproeally affect each other. A
change in the condition of' the nervous
system produces a
change in
the mind, and a
change in the state of' the railed, made through the ex~
ternal senses, or
by any other means, produces a
change in the nervous
system. Medicines, when taken into the stomach or
applied to the sur-
face of the body, operate upon precisely the same
susceptibilities of the
nervous system ; and hence it is that medicine produces no change in
the dead body, and sometimes it produces no
change in the living body,
owing to the condition of' the nervous
susceptibilities when it is taken.
In cases of insanity, the ordinary symptoms of' some diseases do not ap-
pear, and the ordinary methods of medical treatment produce no effect,
owing entirely to the state of the patient's mind, or the changed condi-
tion ol` the nervous
susceptibilitiesfi A knowledge of these facts is of
*
For evidence of the truth upon which the above statement is made, see
the London Lancet for October, 1844, re-published Jam., 1845, p. 17.
Q#
18 WHAT IS IT ?
the utmost importance iii the treatment of disease, and especially in
cases of insanity.
But you ask me, if there be not danger, after the operator has induced
a state of sleep, and got the patient under his power ? I answer :
This state is never brought on, nor this " power " obtained over a
patient, suddenly, nor in a short time. The man who assumes to be able
to put a woman to sleep without her knowledge, or against her will the
first time tr}-mg, and above all, to make her change her feelings towards
him, as is represented in the pamphlet under notice, is deceived ; and
when he publishes such trash to the world as is here put forth, I do not
hesitate to pronounce him a deceiver, utterly unworthy of any confidence
at all.
The only objection which could, justly, be brought against this subject
or agency, is this : the intercourse necessary to bring on the sleep
afibrds a vicious man extra opportunities for working upon the affec-
tions of his female patients : and, after he has gamed their confidence
and produced a state of feelmg in them congenial with his own, then he
may mjure them. Hence it will be seen, this objection does not lie
against Pathetism, per se ; not agamst the uafluences which one mind
has, in the nature of mmd, over another, in given cases, but, against
^ffordmg a certain class of persons opportunities for winning the affec-
lions of females. Precisely the same objection will He against the pro-
fessional services of physicians and clerg}-men ; though it is admitted
that the access which a " ]\Iagnetiser " is allowed to have, Generally to
the mind and feelings of his female subjects, afford him greater facilities
for controlling their susceptibilities than most other persons have •
and
071 this account, patients should exercise the more caution in permitting
operators to experiment upon them. If there were any real merit in this
writers pretended fears and cautions, it would be merely borrowed
from Deleuze and others who wrote upon this subject before he was
born. Indeed, scarcely any ^Titer can be found, but who has re-echoed
the same cautions, in which the real danger has been distinctly pointed
out The followmg is from the Magnet, published long before this
writer, whom we are now castigating for his " Animalisms," committed
the depredations on female innocence so unblushingly told in the pages
:of his pamphlet :
—
" That some subjects, after they have been frequently operated on.
may be made to obey the will of the operator, cannot admit of any
doubt. I do not say, that they can be willed to do things that are disa-
18 wear rs rr P
the 1|:.'.ios:
Iniportance in the treatment of disease, and
especially in
cases of insanity.
But you ask nie, if there be not
danger, after the operator has induced
a state of sleep, and got the patient under his power? I answer : _
This state is never
brought on, nor this "pove1"'0btained over a
patiennsuddenly, nor in a short time. The man who assumes to he able
to put a. woman to sleep without her lutowledge, or
against her will, the
first time trying, and above. all, to make her change her feelings towards
him, as is represented in the pamphlet under notice, is decezred; and
when he Publishes such trash to the world as is here put forth, I do not
hesitate to pronounce him a deceiver, utterly untvorthy of any confidence
at all.
The only objection which could, justly, be brought against this subject,
01-
agency, is this : the intercourse necessary to
bring on the
sleep,
affords a vicious man extra o_pporttrnfiz°rs for Working upon the affec-
tions of his female patients; and, after he has gained their confidence,
and produced a state of' feeling in them congenial with his own, then he
may injure them. Hence it will be seen, this objection does not lie
against Pathetism, per se; not
against the influences which one mind
has, in the nature of lTllI]Cl,O'31' another, in given cases, but, against
affording a certain class of persons oppo:'tnn'z`iz'cs for
winning the aH`ec.
tions ot' females. Precisely the same
objection will lie against the pro-
fessional services of physicians and clergytnen; though it is admitted,
that the access which a
"
Magnetiscr
"
is allowed to have, generally, to
the mind and feelings of his f`er.1ale subjects, afford him greater facilities
for controlling their susceptihilitics than most other persons have ; and,
on this account, patients should exercise the more caution in
permitting
operators to experiment upon them. lf' there were
any real merit in this
þÿVi'1`ll§ ¬1'iS
pretended fears and cautions, it would be merely borrowed
from Deleuze and others who wrote upon this subject before he was
born. Indeed, scarcely any vrriter can be found, but who has re-echoed
the same cautions, in which the real danger has been
distinctly pointed
out. The following is from the Magnet, published long before this
writer, whom we are now
castigating for his "
Anirnalisms," committed
the depredations on female innocence so
unblushingly told in the pages
of his pamphlet:-
"That some
subjects, after they have been frequently operated on,
may be made to obey the will of the operator, cannot admit of any
doubt. I do not
say, that they can be trfffcd to do things that are disa»
WHAT IS IT? 19^
greeable to them, but they may be made willing to do many things they
could not be made willing to do in the normal state. And hence, it
should be known, that the person who submits to this process by another,
of whose healthy character^ and other necessary qualifications he is not
weir assured, runs a hazard far more dangerous than the patient who
merely swallows the nostrum of the quack, of whom he knows nothing
;
and that just so far as this operation is successful, just so far he may
receive the impress, as it were, of the operator's heart. The mental dis-
position of the latter has much to do with the impression made on the
person who is put into the hypnopathic state. Of this fact I have had
numerous demonstrations, which leave no room for the shadow of a
doubt. All therefore should understand what results may follow, and
those which do ahoays follow, the influence which is exerted upon them
by pathetism. That influence may, and should be good, and nothing but
good ; but this will depend, of course, upon the health, skill, and motives
of the operator."
I say, upon the motives of the operator, and the same remark might
be made, whatever might be the professed object, or the process adopted
for accomplishing it. If a man is disposed to do what would result in
the injury of any body, he v/ould find the means if he could, for accom-
plishing his object, and he would be sure to use the means if they were
furnished at his hand.
This writer alludes to others besides himself, who have trifled with the
affections of confiding females, under the guise of " Animal Magnetism,"
and some of whom, in this city, have comi%-;itted crimes, which, if tried
before the proper tribunals would result in their confinement in the State's
Prison. All this is admitted, and it is equally well known, that the char-
acters of those persons were notoriously bad before they had any thing
to do with this subject ; and the public papers teemed with cautions
against one of them more than twenty years ago, as a base villain and
imposter ; and now whose fault is it, after the public has been so fre-
quently cautioned against him. if he should succeed in the ruin of one or
a dozen females who have fallen in his way ?
I have spoken of the opportunities which the old process of " Magnet-
ising," as it is called, afforded for working upon the feelings of female
patients. These are increased by staring in the face, and passing the
hand over the system, practices which I repudiated years ago, and which
have been discontinued by every operator of any intelligence throughout
the country. There is no need of those mummeries, and as they are
WHAT is ir? I9
greeable to them, but they may be made willing to do many things they
could not be made willing to do in the normal state. And hence, it
should be known, that the person who submits to this process by another,
of whose health, character, and other :accessory g'uaZg7ficatio»ns he is not
well assured, runs a hazard far more dangerous than the patient who
merely swallows the nostrum of the quaek,of whom he knows nothing;
and that just so far as this operation is successful, just so far he may
receive the fimpress, as it were, of the opcrator's It-cart. The mentaldis-
position of the latter has much to do with the inipressiou made on the
person who is put into the hypnopathie state. Of this fiactl have had
numerous demonstrations, which leave no 1'oom for the shadow of a
doubt. All therefore should understand what results may follow, and
those which do always follow, the influence which is exerted upon them
by pathetism. That influence may, and should be good, and nothing hut
good ; but this will depend, of course, upon the health, skill, and motives
of the operator."
I say, upon the MOTIVES of the operator, and the same remark might
be made, whatever might be the professed object, or the process adopted
for accomplishing it. If a man is disposed to do what would result in
the injury of any hotly, he would iind the means if he could, for accom-
plishing his object, and he would be sure to use the means if they were
furnished at his hand.
This writer alludes to others besides himself, who have trilled with the
alfeetions of confiding females, under the guise of "
Animal Magnetism,"
and some of whom, in this city, have committed crimes, whieh,if tried
before the proper tribunals would result in their confinement in the State's
Prison. All this is admitted, and it is equally well known, that the char-
acters of those persons were
notoriously had before they had any thing
to do with this subject; and the public papers tecmed with cautions
against one of them more than twenty years ago, as a base villain and
imposter; and now whose fault is it, after the public has been so fre»
quently cautioned against him. if he should succeed in the ruin of one or
a dozen females who have fallen in his way?
I have spoken of' the opportunities which the old process of "
Magnet-
ising," as it is called, afforded for working upon the feelings of female
patients. These are increased by staring in the face, and passing the
hand over the system, practices whichl repudiated years ago, and which
have been discontinued by every operator of any intelligence throughout
the country. There is no need of those mummerics, and _as they are
20 WHAT IS IT?
highly objectionable on other grounds, as I anticipated years ago, they
have been continued only by a few " animalizers," like this one before
us.
The state of somnambulism may, at first, be induced by almost any
process ^^ h'ch is not disagi'ceable to the patient. As good a way as any
is, for the operator to stand behind the patient, or by his side, while he
places his hand upon the top of the head, and over the forehead. The
patient should be directed to close his eyes, or keep them steadily set,
till the attention is immovally fixed upon the sleep. The sleep will
come on just in proportion to the fixedness of the patient's attention^
without any passes, or efforts of the operator's will.
A few puffs of air in his face, or slight pats upon the back part of
the head, will be sufficient to restore him to his normal state. Thus,
when you have dispensed with the old process of paicing and scraping
over the bodies of your patients, and discarded the absurd and prepos-
terous notions about the power of the " will," we have removed the
foundation of every reasonable objection which has ever been suggested
against the practice of Pathetism in the cure of disease.
After the sleep has been once induced, and the susceptibility of the
patient sufficiently excited, the sleep may be induced by the mere direc-
tion of the operator, and removed in the same way.*
In these remarks, of course, I say nothing of my manner of producing
results in my public Lectures, as that is still more peculiar to my Jiew
theory of mind^ and I am confident it never was adopted by any other
Lecturer, in any part of the world, till after the publication of the Mag-
net, and the papers had given accounts of my having induced the
sleep in my public Lectures, in the cases of strangers whom I never had
seen before, and without contact, or the passes, or any particular efforts of
the " will," so called. But, since the accounts of my Lectures were
published, I have heard of numerous attempts at imitation of my manner,
and some have even gone so far as to issue verbatim copies of my hand-
bills, and in Lowell, Nov. 27, 1843, one of these imitators procured
Messrs. Norton and Bellows to print an exact copy of my bills, with my
own name in it, including some of the newspaper notices of my Lec-
*"
It has been common for some Lecturers to advise persons indiscriminately
to practice or experiment with this influence, and from which many mischievous
results have followed. It should never be undertaken without a thorough
knowledge of its laws. For " Practical Directions '
and rules for operating, see
the book entitled "Pathetism," before referred to.
20 wan is 1'1' Z'
highly objectionable on other grounds, as I anticipated years ago, they
have been continued only by a few "
animalizers," like this one before
us.
-
The state of somnamhulism may, at first, be induced by almost any
process vthich is not disagreeable to the patient. As good a
way as
any
is, f'or the operator to stand behind the patient, or
by his side, while he
places his hand upon the top of the head, and over the forehead. The
patient should be directed to close his eyes, or keep them steadily set,
till the attention is 17mnzoL°a5Fy_j'ired upon the sleep. The sleep will
come on just in proportion to the tixedness of the patient's attention,
without any passes, or efforts ot' the operator's will.
A few puifs of air in his face, or
slight pats upon the back part of
the head, will be sufficient to restore him to his normal state. Thus,
when you have dispensed with the old process of parsing and .scraping
over the bodies of your patients, and discarded the absurd and prepos-
terous notions about the power of the "
will," we have removed the
foundation of every reasonable objection which has ever been suggested
against the practice of Pathctism in the cure ot' disease.
After the sleep has been once induced, and the susceptibility of' the
patient suiiiciently excited, the sleep may be induced by the mere direc-
tion of the operator, and removed in the same
tray*
ln these remarks, of' course,l say nothing of my manner of producing
results in my public Lectures, as that is still more
peculiar to my new
theory of Tllfilff, and l am confident it never was
adopted byany other
Lecturer, in any part of' the world, till after the publication of the Mag-
net, and the papers had given accounts of my having induced the
sleep in my public Lectures, in the cases ot' strangers whom l never had
seen before, and without contact, or the passes, or
any particular efforts of
the "will," so called. But, since the accounts of rny Lectures wer
published, I have heard ot' numerous
attempts at imitation of my manner,
and some have even
gone so far as to issue verbatim copies ot' my hand-
bills, and in Lowell, Nov. 27, 1843, one of these imitators procured
Messrs. Norton and Bellows to print an exact copy ot' my bills, with my
own name in it, including some ot' the newspaper notices of my Lec-
"It has been common for some Lecturers to advise persons indiscriminately
to practice or experiment with this influence, and from which many mischievous
results have followed. It should never be undertaken Without a.
thorough
knowledge of its laws. For "Practical Directions
"
and rules for operating, see
the book entitled "
Pathctism," before referred tc.
WHAT IS IT? 21
tures ! ! These counterfeit bills were posted about the city, but before
the time for the lectures, the lecturer was missing.*
* A copy of that counterfeit bill now lies before me. I have another counter-
feit of my bills, got out in the city of New York, by one W. C. Tappan, dated
Sept. 23, 1843. I arrived in the city that very evening ; but Mr. Tappan cleared
out without giving his lecture. I have heard of other instances of the same
kind, but the most glaring instance of an attempt to appropriate some things
peculiar to my theory, have been made by a man by the name of Grimes. The
monstrous blunders committed by this man, I have exposed in another work,
now ready for the press. His true character may be inferred from the following
fact, which I have upon what I believe to be good authority. When he had a
bust taken of his head, he caused the sculptor to raise the organs of conscien-
tiousness in the bust, so as to make them larger than the organs actually were in
his head ! ! This ruse is much like one practised by a man now living in Edgar-
town, Mass., who bears the reputation of a miser, but when I was in that town,
a few months ago, I saw a superb and costly monument, which he had actually
caused to be put up in the grave yard, on the spot where he is to be buried ; and
an inscription upon it lauding his character for benevolence in the highest terms !
'WHAT is rr? 21
tures!! These counterfeit bills were posted about the city, but before
the time for thc lectures, the lecturer was
missing*
*
A copy of that counterfeit hill now lies before me. I have another counter-
feit of my bills, got out in the city of New York, by one VV. C. Tappan, dated
Sept. 23, 1843. I arrived in the city that very evening; butMr. Tappan cleared
out Without giving his lecture. T have heard of other instances of' the same
kind, but the most glaring instance of' an
attempt to appropriate some
things
peculiar to my theory, have been made by a man
by the name of' Grimes. The
monstrous blunders committed hy this man, I have exposed in another work,
now ready for the press. His true character may be inferred from the following
fact, which I have upon what I believe to be good authority. "Vixen he had a
bust taken of his head, he caused the sculptor to rfrise the organs of' conscien-
Ziousaess in the bust, so as to make them larger than the organs actually were in
his head I I This ruse is much like one practised by a man new living in Edgar-
town, Mass., who bears the reputation of a raiser, but when I was in that town,
a few months ago, I saw a superb and costly monument, which he had actually
caused to be put up in the grave yard, on the spot wlire he is to he buried ; and
an inscription upon it lauding his character ibr oeneoolerice in the llighesttermsf
CHAPTER V.
Boston, July 17, 1845
Pear Sir : —Although the author of this pamphlet affects to deny,
and even to ridicule what has been denominated " clairvoyance," it will
be seen that he does, nevertheless, admit the existence of this power,
and, even to a greater extent than what is assumed by most persons
who profess to believe in it. He goes so far as to say, that, ordinarily,
subjects when first put to sleep, even, will be able to tell the thoughts
of those with whom they are in communication. This I do not believe.
What he thus affirms of subjects, as common, is very seldom developed,
in any considerable degree, even after they have been experimented
upon for a length of time.
In my previous writings on clairvoyance, years ago, I resolved this
power into what has been denominated instinct; and since that time, I
have been confirmed in this conjecture, beyond all doubt. An instinc-
tive action is one which is performed, independent of the external
senses ; it results neither from observation nor experience ; and is per-
fect from the first, and not susceptible of any improvement. Hence we
notice those animals, as man, for instance, which are accustomed to
use reflective faculties, are guided the least by instinct. And those
which have no reflective faculties, are guided alone by this sense.
Hence we find it the most developed in man, when the external senses
are suspended, as in natural or induced sleep. That there is a sense in
man, which often perceives the presence and qualities of things without
the use of either of the external organs of sense, we have the testimony
of the highest medical authorities to prove. The following remark is
from the celebrated Dr. Good :
—" We occasionally meet among man-
kind, with a sort of sensation altogether wonderful and inexplicable.
There are some persons so peculiarly affected by the presence of a
particular object, that is neither seen, tasted, heard, smelt or touched,
as not only to be conscious of its presence, but to be in agony till it is
removed. The vicinity of a cat not unfrequently produces such an
effect, and I have been a witness to the most decisive proofs of this in
several instances."
CHAPTER V.
Bo sroN, JULY 17, 1845
:DEAR Sm:-Although the author of this pamphlet affects to deny,
and even to ridicule what has been denominated "
clairvoyance," it will
be seen that he does, nevertheless, admit the existence of this power,
and, even to a
greater extent than what is assumed by most persons
who profess to believe in it. He goes so far as to say, that, ordinarily,
subjects when first put to sleep, even, will be able to tell the thoughts
ofthose with whom they are in communication. This I do not believe.
What he thus arlirms of subjects, as common, is very seldom developed,
in any considerable degree, even after they have been experimented
upon for a
length of time.
In my previous writings on
clairvoyance, years ago, I resolved this
power into what has been denominated instinct; and since that time, I
have been confirmed in this conjecture, beyond all doubt. An instinc-
tive action is one which is performed, independent of the external
senses; it results neither from observation nor
experience; a11d is per-
fect from the lirst, and not susceptible of any improvement. Hence we
notice those animals, as man, for instance, which are accustomed to
use reflective faculties, are
guided the least by instinct. And those
which have no reflective faculties, are
guided alone by this sense.
Hence we lind it the most developed in man, when the external senses
are suspended, as in natural or induced sleep. That there is a sense in
man. which often perceives the presence and qualities ofthings without
the use of either ofthe external organs of sense, we have the testimony
of the highest medical authorities to prove. The following remark is
from the celebrated Dr. Good :-" We occasionally meet among man~
kind, with asort of sensation altogether wonderful and inexplicable.
There are some persons so
peculiarly affected by the presence ot a
particular object, that is neither seen, tasted, heard, smelt or touched,
as not only to be conscious ot' its presence, but to be in agony till it is
removed. The vicinity of a cat not unfrequently produces such an
effect, and I have been a witness to the most decisive proofs of this in
several instances."
CLAIRVOYANCE. '23
Indeed, no intelligent physiologist doubts the existence of this power j
and works on mental philosophy frequently detail dreams, which are to
be accounted for only by the existence of this mysterious sense. 1
have found persons, who could exercise it in a remarkable degree, in
their normal or waking state. Letters put into their hands have been
described by them with astonishing accuracy, and sometimes they will
tell the nature of medicinal drugs, when enveloped in wrappers, merely
by holding them a few moments in their hands.
I have had numerous demonstrations of the clairvoyant power, and
in a vast variety of ways, so that, I am just as certain of its reality as I
am of any other function of the nervous system. Cut, at the same time,
I feel bound to declare, that I place little or no confidence in most of
the stories which are told, under the name of clairvoyance, as the cir-
cumstances under which this power is said to have been developed are
not such as to secure an intelligent conviction of its reality, or to make
it sufficiently evident that the operators and the subjects were not in
some way deceived, in regard to many of the particulars making up
the case..
As to the examination of disease, and prescribing medicine by a
clairvoyant, it may be sufficient for me to observe, that I have never,
professionally, examined diseases in this way, for the very good reason,
that I believe I can give the diagnosis, myself, better than any clairvoy-
ant, though I would not hesitate to give any person who might consult
me, the satisfaction of such an examination, if it were preferred. With
a few exceptions, however, I must admit, that, as this business is carried
on, I have but little confidence in it- The subjects and operators may
be divided into two classes :
—
1. Those who are natural somnambulists and clairvoyants, who have
fallen into this habit spontaneously. Some of these I have known who
have given the true diagnosis, and their prescriptions have resulted in
as many cures as you could affirm in favor of any of the patent medi-
cines, or, indeed, of many of the " regular faculty."
2. The other class, are mere imitators. The subjects are put to
sleep, and, without having any instinctive faculty for detecting disease,
they are pressed into the habit of examining and prescribing, as a
money making business. And, some of the medical faculty have led
the way in this kind of examinations It is but a short time since I saw
the advertisement of one of them, inviting invalids far and near, to
come to his office, and, as it were, have their fortunes told; but, said
CLAIRVOYANCE. 23
Indeed, no intelligent physiologist doubts the existence ol' this power;
and works on mental philosophy frequently detail dreams, which are to
be accounted for only by the existence of' this mysterious sense. 1
have found persons, who could exercise it in a remarkable degree, in
their normal or
waking state. Letters put into their bands have been
described by them with astonishing accuracy, and sometimes they will
tell the nature ol` medicinal drugs, when enveloped in wrappers, merely
by holding them a few moments in their hands.
I have l1ad numerous demonstrations of the clairvoyant power, and
in a vast variety of ways, so that, I am
just as certain of its reality as I
am of any other function of' the nervous
system. But, at the same time,
I feel bound to declare, that I place little or no confidence in most of
the stories which are told, under the name of clairvoyance, as the cir-
cumstances under which this power is said to have been developed are
not such as to secure an
intelligent conviction of its reality, or to make
it sutliciently evident that the operators and the subjects were not in
some way deceived, in regard to
many of the particulars Illiiiiillg up
the case.,
As to the examination of disease, and prescribing medicine by a
clairvoyant., it may be sufficient for me to observe, that I have never,
professionally, examined diseases in this way, for the very good reason,
that I believe I can
give the diagnosis, myself, better than any clairvoy-
ant, thougli I would not hesitate to give any person who might consult
me, the satisfaction of such an
examination, it were
_prqfei'i°ed. Vith
at few exceptions, ho1.vever,I must admit, that, as this business is carried
on, I have but little conlidence in it. The subjects and operators may
be divided into two classes :-
l. Those who are natural sornnambulists and clairvoyants, who have
fallen into this habit spontaneously. Some ol' these I have known who
have given the true diagnosis, and their prescriptions have resulted in
as many cures as
you could afiirm in favor of any ol' the patent medi-
cines, or, indeed, ol' many of the
"
regular faculty."
2. The other class, are mere innftators. The subjects are
put to
sleep, and, without having any instinctive faculty for detecting disease,
they are
pressed into the habit of examiniiig and prescribing, as a
money rnaltiug business. And, some ot' the medical faculty have led
the way in this kind of examinations. It is but a short time since I saw'
the advertisement of one of them, inviting invalids far and near, to
come to his ofiice, and, as it were, have their fortunes told; but, said
24 CLAIRVOYANCE.
he, *'
you must not wear silk," because his subject could not see through
silk ! What nonsense !
*
The extreme into which many of the " Drs." and " Professors " of
the science have carried this business of examining disease, prescribing
and selling medicine, has completely overdone the thing, and disgusted
intelligent believers in this disputed power. Indeed, how could it be
otherwise, when ignorant persons carry individuals about with them for
examining the sick " in a state of clairvoyance," whose subjects were
never in a sound state of sleep ! And then, again, when they resort to
collusion with the clairvoyants, as I know some have done in this city !
I lament this state of things, but do not see how it can be prevented,
unless the friends of this science unite in setting their faces against
these abuses. Truth should not be made to suffer, because unworthy
persons do, sometimes, set themselves up as its advocates ; and it does
seem to me to be a great injustice when this subject is made responsible
for the badness of character, in those cases where certain individuals
were notoriously infamous before they had any thing to do with it
and also, when worthy intelligent persons are hindered from doing the
good they might, because the ground is so extensively occupied by in-
competent operators.
3. And, then, there are difficulties in the way of the best subjects
who undertake to examine disease. They are not always in a good
condition—the ignorance of those who operate upon them, and the
fact, that this power does not last long, in the best cases; indeed, it
may become exhausted, or interrupted in a few days, beyond the possi-
bility of recovery. t And, in such cases, ignorant operators may keep
up a course of examinations long after the power is gone.
The same remarks might be made upon lectures, and public exhibi-
tions of the old process of pawing and staring subjects in the face.
* Out of some fifteen hundred persons whom I have put to sleep, I have not
found one who was spontaneously affected with silk, or any metallic substance,
according to what has been assumed by the '-'' AnimaV Magnetisers, in relation
to these conducting or non-conducting substances.
t "I say, "possibility of recovery," though 1 have restored it in two cases_
One was a lady of one of the regular medical faculty in this vicinity, and a very
interesting case it was. She soon after went to Dr. Buchanan, who was then
in this city, and though she was one of the most susceptible subjects 1 ever
saw, the Dr.'s ^'neuraura^' made no impression upon her. This was one of a
number of similar cases in which the Dr.'s ^'neuraura'' was found incapable
of affecting highly susceptible subjects upon whom he tried his experiments.
34 CLAIRVUYANCE.
ne,
"
you must not wear silk," because his subject could not see
through
silk ! What nonsense E it
The extreme into which many of the
"
Drs." and "Professors" of
the science have carried this business of examining disease, prescribing
and selling medicine, has completely overdone the thing, and disgusted
intelligent believers in this disputed power. Indeed, how could it be
otherwise, when ignorant persons carry individuals about with them for
examining the sick
"
in a state of clairvoyance," whose subjects were
never in a sound state of sleep l And then, again, when they resort to
collusion with the clairvoyants, as I know some have done in this city I
I lament this state ol' things, but do not see how it can be prevented,
unless the friends of this science unite in setting their faces against
these abuses. Truth should not be made to suffer, because unworthy
persons do, sometimes, set themselves up as its advocates; and it does
seem to me to be a
great injustice when this subject is made responsible
for the badness of character, in those cases where certain individuals
were notoriously infamous before they had any thing to do with it;
and also, when worthy intelligent persons are hindered from doing the
good they might, because the ground is so
extensively occupied by in-
competent operators.
3. And, then, there are dilliculties in the way of the best subjects
who undertake to examine disease. They are not always in a
good
condition-the ignorance of those who operate upon them, and the
fact, that this power does not last long, in the best cases; indeed, it
may become exhausted, or
interrupted in a few days, beyond the possi-
bility of recoveryn" And, in such eases, ignorant operators may keep
up a course ol" examinations long after the power is gone.
The same remarks might be made upon lectures, and public exhibi-
tions of the old process ot' pawing and staring subjects in the face.
'l
Out of some iiftcen hundred persons whom I have put lo sleep, I have not
found one who was
spontaneously a.ft`eeted with silk, or
any metallic substance,
according to what has been assumed by the "_/2rr»ivrm!" Magnetisers, in relation
to these conducting or
non-conducting substances.
i "I say, "possibility of recovery," though 1 have restored it in two ca.ses_
One was a
lady of one of the regular medical Faculty in this vicinity, and a
very
interesting case it Was. She soon after went. to Dr. Buchanan, who was then
in this-1 city, and though she was one of the most susceptible subjects 1 ever
saw, tht- Dr.'s "
nmzruufrc
"
made no impression upon her. This was one of aa.
number of similar cases in which the Dr.`s "ncuraurcL" was iound incapable
of aflecting highly susceptible subjects upon whom he tried his experiments.
CLAIRVOYANCE. 25
For, while there are a few intelligent, and truly worthy persons en-
gaged in this business, there are many others who, for whatever else
they may be qualified, are certainly not fit for public lecturers on
the Science of Human Life. Some of them I have known who have
experimented upon persons who were never asleep, and they themselves
did not know enough to tell whether their subjects were asleep or not
!
And their manner of lecturing [!] and experimenting, of course, must tend
to prejudice well informed people against this subject, and lead them to
the conclusion, that though the thing itself is true, and may be made
the means of great good, yet there has been, in some instances, a vast
deal of humbugry mixed up with it.
But there is one remark which I would make for the consideration
of such persons, in relation to the abuse of this power ; it is this,
—
every thing that is true, is liable to be abused just in proportion to its
importance, and the want of information, or honesty, in those who have
the management of it* Hence the necessity of information upon this
subject. Let the community be informed ; let all know what it is, and
how one mind may, under certain circumstances, influence another ;
and no one need be injured any more by this science, than they are by
religion, or the practice of law, or medicine.
* " I doubt not, that in regard both to Phrenology and Mesmerism, the grand
principle will prove true, that the more ominous of evil any branch of knowl-
edge seems to be, in its incipient state, the more prolific it will ultimately become
in illustrations favorable both to morality and religion."—-Dr. Hitchcock, Presi-^
dent of Amherst College.
CLAIRVOYAN CE. 25
For, while there are a few intelligent, and truly worthy persons en-
gaged in this business, there are
many others who, for whatever else
they may be qualified, are certainly not tit for public lecturers on
the Science of Human Life. Some of them I have known who have
experimented upon persons who were never
asleep, and they themselves
did not know enough to tell whether their subjects were asleep or not!
And their manner oflecturing and experimenting, ofcourse, must tend
to prejudice well informed people against this subject, and lead them to
the conclusion, that though the thing itself is true, and may be made
the means of great good, yet there has been, in some instances, a vast
deal of humbugry mixed up with it.
But there is one remark which I would make for the consideration
of such persons, in relation to the abuse of this power ; it is this,-
every tftzng that is true, is liable to be afruscct just in _proportion to its
irnportonce, and the want of information, or'
honesty, in those who have
the management of it* Hence the necessity of information upon this
subject. Let the community be informed; let all know what it is, and
how one mind may, under certain circumstances, iniiuence another;
and no one need be injured any more by this science, than they are
by
religion, or the practice of law, or medicine.
*" I doubt not, that in regard both to Phrenology and Mesmerisrn, the grand,
principle will prove true, that the more ominous of' evil any branch of know!-»
edge seems to he, in itsincipient state, the more prolific it will ultimately become
in illustrations favorable both to morality and religion."--Dr. Hitchcock, Presi-
dent of .Hmfrerst College.
3
LETTER VI.
Boston, July 18, 1845.
Dear Sir, —Pathetism comprehends the science of mind, the knowl-
edge of the nervous functions, the science of human life. And a
knowledge of this subject will enable us to account, in a rational and sat-
isfactory manner, for every thing peculiar to the constitution of man,
every thing in relation to those extraordinary mental and physical phe-
nomena peculiar to Sleep, Dreaming, Trance, Second Sight, Witch-
craft Insanity, and those curious sympathetic imitative results produced
among the Hindoos, Mohammedans, Anahaptists, French Prophets,
Roman Catholics, Shaking Quakers, Mormons, Methodists, and other
sects, which have by ignorant fanatics been thought superhuman or
miraculous. And from which it will be seen, that it claims the serious
attention of all who wish to understand the philosophy of Human Influ-
ence.
The new theory of mind, or what I believe to be such, I pub-
lished in my work, before alluded to, some three years ago. It was,
I believe, the first ever issued in the English language, in which
an attempt was made to show the falsity of the opinions hitherto
prevalent, in relation to the agency of a fluid in the production of the
results peculiar to a state of induced somnambulism. And, though it
was written in considerable haste, amidst a pressure of other arduous
duties, and was, in fact, a mere outline of my views, yet the reception
it has met with has abundantly confirmed me in the conviction, that the
theory advanced and advocated in its pages, is destined to prevail just
in proportion to the attention which intelligent, unprejudiced operators
may, from time to time, give to the investigation of the subject. Not a
single case has come to my knowledge, where any one of common in-
formation has given my work a candid reading, but it has resulted in an
admission of the truthfulness of my theory, and among professional
gentlemen, especially, not excepting many of the clergy, the philosophy
LETTER VI.
BOSTON, JULY 18, 1845.
DEAR Sm,-Pathetisrn eornprehends the science of mind, the knowl-
edge of the nervous functions, the science of human life. And a
knowledge of this subject will enable us to account, in a rational and sat-
isfactory manner, for everything peculiar to the constitution of man,
every thing in relation to those extraordinary mental and physical phe-
nomena peculiar to Sleep, Drea.m'.in.g, Trance, Second Sight, Witelz-
cmjif, Insanity, and those curious sympathetfie imitation results produced
among the Héadoos, Maha-m-rnodons, Aaabaptists, French Prophets,
R0-mga Catliolics, Seek-ing Q1_tekcrs, Ilfformons, Methodists, and other
sects, which have by ignorant fanatics been thought superhuman or
miraculous. And from which it will be seen, that it claims the serious
attention of all who Wish to understand the ple-ilosopfay of Hunter: lNFLU'
ence.
The new theory ot' mind, or what I believe to be such, I pub-
lished in my work, before alluded to, some three years ago. It was,
l believe, the iirst ever issued in the English language, in which
an attempt was made to show the falsity of the opinions hitherto
prevalent, in relation to the agency of a fluid in the production of the
results peculiar to a state of induced sornnambulism. And, though it
was written in considerable haste, amidst a
pressure of other arduous
duties, and Was, in fact, a mere outline of my views, yet the reception
it has met with has abundantly COI1H1`1'1']Bd me in the conviction, that the
theory advanced and advocated in its pages, is destined to prevail just
in proportion to the attention which intelligent, unprejudiced operators
may, from time to time, give to the investigation of the subject. Not 21
single case has come to my knowledge, where any one of common in-
formation has given my work a candid reading, but it has resulted in an
admission of the truthfulness of' my theory, and among professional
gentlemen, especially, not excepting many of the clergy, the philosophy
THEORY OF PATHETISM. 27
of the mental functions, explained in that work, has been received with
a favor which very much encourages me to hope that the time is not
far distant when the great mass, the world over, will be found to agree
in the true science of mind.
Since its publication, I have seen enough to confirm me, also, in the
apprehension I expressed, years ago, that this subject had nothing to
fear one hundredth part so much as the injudicious handling of opera-
tors. To read the assumptions put forth in the advertisements of some
of these persons, would be amusing indeed, were it not for the import-
ance of the subject, and the disgust one is forced to feel, on witnessing
the exhibitions of such unpardonable ignorance. Nor can it be denied
that a part of this blame does, unquestionably, belong to professional
men, to those whose education and opportunities, in other respects, have
fitted them, more than others, for the investigation of human physiology.
Had they taken hold on this subject, as they might and should have
done, instead of treating it with ridicule, long ago it would have taken
its place among the positive sciences, and nothing would have been left
for feeble intellects to do, but to receive the benefits which this science
would have afforded them. But, unfortunately, it has so happened, that,
while many physicians and clergymen have been convinced of the truth
of Pathetism, they have been prevented from suffering themselves to be
identified with it in any way, merely from seeing it handled by so many
incompetent minds. This is a great inconsistency, to be sure, but it
is one of which we but too often find even many good men guilty, in
other relations besides those they sustain to science. From these facts,
however, we learn some of the laws peculiar to the human mind, and see
how it is that truth prevails, notwithstanding the numerous impediments
thrown in its way.
But few efforts have been made, during the last two years, in this
country, to keep alive the old notions of a fluid. As far as I am able to
judge, the theory advocated by Dr. Buchanan, under the name of " Neu-
rology," has made no converts, and even the Dr. himself, I believe,
has ceased to advocate it ; and the few who embraced it, on its first pre-
sentation to the public, have, as far as I know, without a single excep-
tion, given it up, as indefensible. In my travels through the difTerent
States, I have, now and then, met with a pamphlet pretending to some
new development of the old notions first put forth by Van Helmont, in
Germany, more than two hundred years ago, but I have seen nothing in
the form of fact or argument which confirms the truth of those notions, in
THEORY OF PATHETISM. 27
of the mental functions, explained in that work, has been received with
a favor which very much encourages me to hope that the time is not
far distant when the great mass, the world over, will be found to agree
in the true science of mind.
Since its publication, I have seen
enough to confirm me, also, in the
apprehension I expressed, years ago, that this subject had nothing to
fear one hundrcdth part so much as the injudicious handling of opera-
tors. To read the assumptions put forth in the advertisements of some
of these persons, would be amusing indeed, were it not for the import-
ance of the subject, and the disgust one is forced to feel, on
witnessing
the exhibitions of such unpardonable ignorance. Nor can it be denied
that a part of this blame does, unquestionably, belong to professional
men, to those Whose education and opportunities, in other respects, have
fitted them, more than others, for the investigation of human physiology.
Had they taken hold on this subject, as
they might and should have
done, instead of treating it with ridicule, long ago it would have taken
its place among the positive sciences, and nothing would have been left
for feeble intellects to do, but to receive the benefits which this science
would have afforded them. But, unfortunately, it has so happened, that,
while many physicians and clergyman have been convinced of the truth
of Pathetism, they have been prevented from suffering themselves to be
identified with it in any way, merely from seeing it handled by so
many
incompetent minds. This is a
great inconsistency, to be sure, but it
is one of which we but too often find even
many good men
guilty, in
other relations besides those they sustain to science. From these facts,
however, we learn some of the laws pecul_iar to the human mind, and see
how it is that truth prevails, notwithstanding the numerous
impediments
thrown in its way.
But few efforts have been made, during the last two years, in this
country, to keep alive the old notions of ajluid. As far as I am able to
judge, the theory advocated by Dr. Buchanan, under the name of"' Neu-
rology," has made no converts, and even the Dr. hin'iself,I believe.
has ceased to advocate it ; and the few who embraced it, on its first pre-
sentation to the public, have, as far as I know, without a single excep-
tion, given it up, as indefensible. In my travels through the different
States, I have, new and then, met with a pamphlet pretending to some
new
development of the old notions first put forth by Van Helmont, in
Germany, more than two hundred years ago, but I have seen
nothing in
the form of' fact or
argument which confirms the truth of' those notions, in
28 THEORY OF PATHETISM.
the least conceivable degree, while my own opportunities for observation
and experiments have been increased a thousand fold, and have abun-
dantly confirmed me in the truth of the following
THEORY;
FIRST PUBLISHED IN MARCH, 1843.
I.
That Animal Life consists in ttoo alternating forces, which control
matter, including Electricity and Magnetism. The alternations of the
vital forces carry on a series of 7'evolutions, which perfectly correspond
with the alternating forces, or states of every thing else in nature, and
hence we have sleeping, waking —cold, heat —motion, rest.
II.
That these vital forces give those qualities to the body which consti-
tute a sympathetic system, and render all its parts susceptible to an influ-
ence from every other part, organ, or entity, between which and the
different organs or parts of the body, a difference in quality or function
is found to exist.
III.
The effects produced by these alternating forces depend upon certain
connections or relations which different parts of the body or different
substances, or entities, sustain to each other.
IV.
That the nature of these relations, between two or more substances,
organs, or entities, depends upon the difference or likeness in their qual'
ities or functions, and the difference in the nature or qualities of things
depends upon the balance of power between the two alternating forces.
This accounts for the difference in the susceptibilities of different per-
sons, to be influenced by any given substance or agency which is brought
into a relation with the mind, or any part of the body (as the stomach)
for the purpose of bringing about a change.
28 THEORY or PATHETISM.
the least conceivable degree, while my own
opportunities for observation
and experiments have been increased a thousand fold, and have abun-
dantly confirmed me in the truth of the following
T H E 0 It Y ;
Fmsr PUBLISHED IN avnmon, 1843.
I.
That Animal Life consists in two alternat-ing forces, which control
matter, including Electricity and Magnetism. The alternations of the
vitalforces carry on a series ot' re-oolutfions, which perfectly correspond
with the alternating forces, or states of every thing else in nature, and
hence we have sleeping, waking- cold, heat _
motion, fest. _
II.
That these 'vitalforces give those qualfizi-ies to the body which consti-
tute a
sympathetic system, and render all its parts susceptible to an influ-
ence from every other part, organ, or
entity, between which and the
diiferent organs or
parts of the body, a difference in quality or function
is found to exist.
Ill
The effects produced by these alternating forces depend upon certain
connections or relations which dilferent parts of the body or different
substances, or entities, sustain to each other.
IV.
That the nature of these relations, between two or more substances,
organs, or entities, depends upon the diference or likeness in their qual-
ities or
functions, and the ditterenee in the nature or qualities of things
depends upon the balance of power between the two alternating forces.
This accounts for the diiference in the suscepzibilities of diiferent per-
sons, to be 'ifwuenced by any given substance or agency which is brought
into a relation with the mind, or
any part of the body (as the stomach)
for the purpose of bringing about a change.
THEORY OF PATHET13M. 29
V.
That a peculiar connection between two entities, organs or sub-
stances, which differ in certain qualities or functions^ produces di positive
relation^ or the law of sympathy. A connection between two which are
precisely alike, produces a negative relation^ or the law of antipathy.
And, where bodies or substances are brought together which do not
come up to a certain degree of difference, in quality or functions, a neu-
tral relation, or a state of apathy, is the result.
VI.
This law of duality and contrariety, in the alternating forces, pre-
vails in the nature of things, and, of course, in the constitution of
MAN, and the organs through which mind is manifested. Hence, as there
are two forces, so there are two perfect parts (so to speak) to one human
body ; two eyes, two ears, two hands, two feet, &c., and two entire
BRAINS, which may, and often do, act independently of each other. The
brains combine the different mental organs, which not only exist in
pairs, but in groups, or families, in each brain ; and the pairs and groups
are balanced by other pairs and groups, whose functions are directly op-
posite. On the due development of these normal relations does con-
sciousness and mental power depend. For, when they are deficient, or
become disturbed or exhausted, the results appear in the states of the
mind, such as idiocy, monomania, insanity, and sleep. When the nor-
mal sympathetic relations are disturbed between the two brains, or the
cerebral organs and the nerves of motion or sensation in other parts of
the system, the results are shown in apoplexy, paralysis, and other phys-
ical orjTiental irregularities.
VII.
The cerebral system possesses the power of sensatio7i, or perception,
without the use of the external senses ; and when this power is exercised
without these senses, and also without any dependence upon observation
or experience, it results in what we denominate instinct, or clair-
voyance. The aggregate of all the mental faculties, when manifested
through the external senses, constitutes mind. The mind is identical
with the cerebral or sympathetic system, and hence they reciprocally act
upon each other. The latter is the medium through which the emotions
and volitions of mind are manifested, and through the same medium all
its impressions are received.
3*
THEORY OF 1'A'I`HE'1`1SM. 29
V.
That a
peculiar cormectiofz between two entities, organs or sub-
stances, which difler in certain qualities orfunrtions, produces 0. positive
relation, or the law of syrnpatlty. A connection between two uhich are
precisely alike, produces a
negatizie relation, or the law of antipathy.
And, where bodies or substances are brought together which do not
come u
p to a certain degree of difi`e1°ence, in quality or
functions, a neu-
tral relation, or fa state of' apathy, is the result.
VI.
This lou: of' duality and contrarimfy, in the altcrnoti-ng forcf's, pre-
vails in the nafurf' of things, and, of course, in the CONS'I'1TL"1'IO1'( or
;-IAN, and the organs through which :Wind is manifested. Hcnee,as there
are two forces, so there are two perfect parts (so to speak] to one human
body; two eyes, two ears, two hands, two feet, &c., and Two sxrxss
BRAINS, which may, and often do, act independently ot" each other. The
lwreias combine the diiferent 'mental organs, which not only exist in
pairs, but in groups, or fli,rnilies,i1'1 each brain; and the pairs and groups
are balanced hy other pairs and groups, whose functions are directly op-
posite. On the due development of these normal relations does con-
sciousness and mental power depend. For, when they are dehcient, or
become disturbed or exhausted, the results appear in the states ofthe
mind, such as idiocy, monomfzazflo, insanity, and sleep. Vhen the nor-
mal sympathetic relations are disturbed between the two brains, or the
cerebral organs and the nerves of' motion or sensation in other parts of
the system, the results are shown in apoplexy, paralysis, and other phys-
ical orgrnental irregularities.
Vll.
The cerellrrtl system possesses the power of sensation, or perception,
without the use of the external senses 5 and when this power is exercised
without these senses, and also without any dependence upon ohser'ation
or experience, it results in what we denorninate 1NsT1Nc'1', or clair-
royenee. The aggregate of all the mental faculties, when manifested
through the external senses, constitutes mtiatl. The mind is itlentical
with the cerebral or
sympathetic system, and hence they reciprocally act
upon each other. The latter is the :ned-turn through which thc emotions
and eolitfons of DIIND are manifested, and through the same :rnctlium all
its impressions are received.
3%
30 THEORY OF PATHETISM.
VIII.
Bv establishing a positive relation between two persons, the mind of
one may thereby control the susceptiMlity of the other ;
or by applying
the hand of one to any part of the other, different mental and physical
changes may thus be produced. Hence it follows, that the only influ-
ence extended from one mind or body to another, depends upon the
kind of relation established between them, and the same is true with re-
gard to any influence felt by the living body, from any other cause.
IX.
A positive relation is kept up, between the vital organs and the sub-
stances on which the system depends for its nourishment, such as air
and food, and, also, by the different functions of these organs ;
and upon
the proper balance of all the different relations depends the health and
vigor of the body. Their disturbance produces disease, and their anni-
hilation, death.
X.
The muscles, limbs, and organs, are controlled by the brain on the
opposite side of the body ; that is, the right brain corresponds with the
left side, and the left brain with the right side, and the muscles are
moved through these relations, which exist between different portions of
the same muscles, and also, between these and the sympathetic nerves,
through which the mind operates. From which it follows, that there is
a reciprocal influence between the different nerves and the other organs
of the entire system ; and hence it is, that the state of one organ, or
part, is changed by the state of another, with which it is in positive re-
lation.
XI.
These sympathetic relations exist between the mental organs and the
nerves and muscles of the face ; they shape the features, and thus lay
the foundation for all that may be known of Physiognomy ; they give
the contour to the entire system, so that relations may be traced between
all the mental and physical developments; and from corresponding
points of sympathy, throughout the body, the different cerebral organs
may be excited and controlled by those external agencies, between
^hich and the susceptiMlity a positive relation has been established.
30 THEORY OF I'ATHE'1`1SM.
VIII.
By establishing a positive relation between two persons, the mind of
one may thereby control the susceptibility of the other ; or
by applying
the hand of one to any part of the other, didercnt mental and physical
changes may thus be produced. Hence it follows, that the only intiu-
encc extended from one mind or body to another, depends upon the
hind ot'1°eZat'irm established between them, and the same is true with re-
gard to any
~
influence felt by the living body, from any other cause.
IX.
A positive relation is kept up, between the vital organs and the sub-
stances on which the system depends for its nourishment, such as air
and food, and, also, by the different functions ofthese organs ; and upon
the proper balance of all the clitlerent relations depends the health and
vigor ofthe body. Their disturbance produces disease, and their anni-
hilation, death.
X.
The muscles_, limbs, and organs, are controlled by the brain on the
opposite side of the body ; that is, the right brain corresponds with the
left side, and the left brain with t}1e right side, and the muscles are
moved through these relations, which exist between different portions of
the same muscles, and also, between these and the sympathetic nerves,
through which the mind operates. From which it follows, that there is
a reciprocal influence between the ditlerent nerves and the other organs
of the entire system; and hence it is, that the state of' one organ, or
part, is changed by the state of another, with which it is in positive re-
lation.
Xl.
These sympathetic relations exist between the mental organs and the
nerves and muscles of the face; they shape the features, and thus lay
the fbundation for all that may be known of Physiognomy; they give
the contour to the entire system,so that relations may be traced between
all the mental and physical developments ; and from corresponding
points of sympathy, throughout the body, the different cerebral organs
may he excited and controlled by those external agencies, between
which and the sztsceptihiftry a
positive relation has been established.
THEORY OF PATHETISM. 31
XII.
The positive and negative relatio?is are controlled, in certain cases,
by the mind ; so that the system is positively or negatively affected ac-
cording to the mental apprehensions. In the same way relations may be
created, or transferred from one substance to another. When the mind
has been once impressed to a certain degree, from a mere apprehension
of an influence from any cause, it takes cognizance of this relation ;
and in cases of high susceptihility^ it does sometimes either create, or
transfer it from one substance or agent, to another ; and hence the sys-
tem is affected precisely according to the anticipations of the mind^ and
not according to the real qualities of those things to which the relation
has been transferred.
xni.
The various vital., organic, and mental functions., are carried on by
these different relations ; and from which it must follow, that upon the
latter does the healthfulness and integrity of the former depend. And
by applying those agencies which change these relations, we may
increase or modify the mental or physical powers, and thus ihefive senses
may be transposed and concentrated entirely in the sympathetic systeiti
;
or they may be wholly suspended, or even controlled by the sympa-
thetic system of the operator.
XIV.
It is a universal laxo of nature., that positive results are produced by a
relation between an agent, and a subject, or two or more substances,
brought into relation with each other. It is only by establishing a con-
nection between tico things, or forms which differ in quality, that a pos-
itive result difiering in quality from either of the two is produced. This
is \hQ first law of Pathetism, and from which we see how it is, that one
may not be able to produce the same effects upon different persons.
The vast number of experiments which I have performed, confirm-
atory of the truth of the above theory., have been of every possible
variety, and have been performed under those circumstances which have
afforded me the best advantages for determining the true nature of this
influence., as to whether it is a fiuid., eliminated out of one brain and
received into another ; or, whether it must not be resolved into the rela-
THEORY OF PATHETISM- 31
XII.
The positive and negative relations are controlled, in certain cases,
by the mind; so that the system is positively or
negatively' affected ac-
cording to the mental apprrhensians. in the same
ivay relzitions may bc
created, or transferred from one substance to another. When the mind
has been once impressed to a certain degree, from a mere
apprehcnsfion
of an infiuence from any cause, it takes cegnicancr of this relation;
and in cases of high susceplibilrfty, it does sometimes either create, or
transfer it from one substance or
agent, to another; and hence the sys-
tem is affected precisely according to the cntir::ipatt`ons of the inincl, and
not according to the real qualities ot' those things to which the relation
has been transferred.
XIII.
The various vital, organic, and mental functions, are carried on
by
these diiterent relations; and from which-it must follow, that upon the
latter does the heaZtiji4Zm:.s's and intcg-nity of the former depend. And
by applying those agencies which change these relations, we
may
increase or modify the mental or
physical powers, and thus thejioe senses
may be transposed and concentrated entirely in the synipatftetic system ;
or
they may be wholly suspended, or even controlled by the sympa-
thetic systern of' the operator.
XIV.
It is a universal law of nat-ure, that positive results are
produced by a
relation between an agent, and a
subject, or tivo or more substances,
brought into relation with each other. It is only by establishing o, con-
nection between tzco things, or forms which diiier in quality, that a
pos-
itive result ditliering in quality from either oi" the tivo is produced. This
is tlie_]'i~rst law of Pathetfism, and from which we see how it is, that one
may not be able to produce the same effects upon different persons.
The vast number of experiments which I have performed, confirm-
atory of the truth of the above theory, have been of every possible
variety, and have been performed under those circumstances which have
afforded me the best advantqes for determining the true nature of this
»£n_fZum_.gg, as to whether it is a
fluid, eliminated out of one brain and
received into another; or, whether it must not be resolved into the rela-
32 THEORY OF PATHETISM.
tions of things, and the laws by which the Great First Cause has deter-
mined they shall be governed.
The laws above described do obviously exist, and we daily observe
their results, and hence there is no necessity for attributing the phenom-
ena which occur, connected with the human mind^ to remote and extra-
ordinary causes.
I have found every imaginable variety of temperament and susceptibility,
necessary for the production of all those results, from which the nature
of this influence alone could be determined. Besides the thirty cases of
surgical operations on the persons whom I have rendered insensible to
pain, and the scores and hundreds of invalids whom I have entirely
cured or relieved, in New York, Boston, Providence, Lowell, New
Bedford, Bangor, Portland, and many other places where I have lectured
among which I may mention some twelve cases of insanity, which I
have cured by my new process of impressing the nervous system. To
state each case in detail would require more space than could be o-iven
in this letter ; nor does it seem so necessary, as these cures have been
effected in my public lectures, on persons who attended them for this
purpose. Among these cases the following may be mentioned :
—Tic-
doloroux. Spasms, Neuralgia, Chorea, Rheumatism, Sick Headache
Paralysis, Insanity, Cholera Morbus, Stammering, Epilepsy, Monoma-
nia, Deafness, Fits, Hysteria, Loss of Voice, Hypochondria, Toothache,
Want of Sleep, St. Vitus' Dance, and Blindness, besides numerous Con-
gential Difficulties, and bad habits, such as the use of Tea, Coffee
Tobacco, and Intoxicating Drinks.
In this respect my lectures have, certainly, as far as I know, been
distinguished from those of any, and all other persons, who have attempt-
ed to call public attention to this subject. It has been my object to
make them of practical benefit, not merely to exhibit those phenomena
by which the truthfulness of my theory is demonstrated ; but, also, to
show the useful purposes to which this agency may be applied, in
the relief of pain, in developing the laws of mind, in explaining the
nervous functions, and in accounting for many strange mental condi-
tions, hitherto considered supernatural. How far I have succeeded in
these efforts, the thousands must judge who have witnessed the results of
my lectures, in different parts of the country, as well as the numbers
who have professed to be, personally, benefitted by them. There is but
one drawback on the pleasure which the contemplation of these results
affords me, and that is, the state of feeling which my success seems to
32 THEORY OF PATHETISM.
tions of things, and th laws by which the Great First Cause has deter-
mined they shall he governed.
The laws above described do obviously exist, and we daily observe
their results, and hence there is no
necessity for attributing the _phenom-
ena which occur, connected with the iruwzrm mind, to remote and extra-
ordinary causes.
I have found every imaginable variety ot" temperament and susceptibility,
necessary for the production ot' all those results, from which the nature
ol" this intiuence alone could be determined. Besides the thirty cases of'
surgical operations on the persons whom I have rendered insensible to
pain, andthe scores and þÿl1l.l1lCll` ¬dS
of' invalids whom I have entirely
cured or relieved, in New York, Boston, I-'1'o'idcnee, Lowell, New
Bedford, Bangor, Portland, and many other places where I have lectured,
among whichl may mention some twelve cases of insanity, which I
have cured by my new process of imp rcssing the nervous system. To
state each case in detail would require more
space than could be given
in this letter; nor does it seem so
necessary, as these cures have been
effected in my public lectures, on
persons who attended them for this
purpose. Among these cases the following may be mentioned: -Tic-
doloroux, Spasms, Neuralgia, Chorca, Rheumatism, Sick Headache,
Paralysis, lnsanity, Cholera Morbus, Stalnrnering, Epilepsy, Monomm
nia, Deathess, Fits, Hysteria, Loss of' Voice, Hypochondria, Toothaehe,
W'ant of Sleep, St. Vitus' Dance, and Blindness, besides numerous Con-
gential Ditliculties, and bad habits, such as the use of Tea, Coffee,
Tobacco, and intoxicating Drinks.
In this respect my lectures have, certainly, as far as I know, been
distinguished from those of any, and all other persons, who have attempt-
ed to call public attention to this subieet. lt has been my object 10
make them ot' practical benefit, not merely to exhibit those phenomena
by which the truthtliliiess of my theory is demonstrated; but, also, to
show the useful purposes to which this agency may be applied, in
the relief of' pain, in developing the laws of mind, in
explaining thc
nervous functions, and in accounting for many strange mental condi-
tions, hitherto considered supernatural. How far I have succeeded in
these etiorts, the thousands must _judge who have witnessed the results of'
my lectures, in ditterent pa1'ts of the country, as well as the numbers
who have professed to be, personally, beneiitted by them. There is but
one drawback on the pleasure which the contemplation of these results
affords me, and that is, the state of' feeling which my success seems to
THEORY OF PATHETISM. 33
have produced in the minds of a few other operators, as if the world
were not large enoug^h for them and me. A very few, also, of the med-
ical profession have been stumbled, in perceiving that I have succeeded
better in curing some of the worst forms of nervous disease far better
without medicine than they were ever able to do with it. A still larger
number of the profession, I am happy to say, have, after attending my
lectures, candidly avowed their belief in Pathetism, and not a few of
them have been quite successful in the treatment of disease by this
influence alone.
.»
THEORY OF PATHETISM. 33
have produced in the minds of 11 few other operators, as if' the world
were not large enough for them and me. A very few, also, of' the med-
ical profession have been stumbled, in perceiving that I lu.ve succeeded
better in euring some of' the worst forms of nervous Lliseaise fhr better
without medicine than they were ever able to do with it. A still larger
number of the profession, I am
happy to say, have, after attending my
lectures, candidly avowed their belief in Pathetism, and not u few of
'them have been quite successful in the treatment of disease by this
influence alone.
g.,
LETTER VIL
Boston, July 21, 1845.
Dear Sir,—It was supposed that the efforts of Dr. Buchanan, some
two years since, to give a new development of the old notions about a
Jluid, would be the last attempts of the kind, at least by any one pretend-
ing to scientific attainments. But that supposition, it seems, was not
well founded. In the work to which I have before referred, by Mr.
Grimes, a labored attempt is made to revive the old notions of Van Hel-
mont, under the new-fangled name of " Etherium /" And yet, Mr. G.
belabors Dr. Buchanan with great severity, for doing this very thing
This " etherium," says this author,
" Is a material substance, occupying space, which connects the planets and
the earth, and which communicates light and heat, electricity, gravitation, and
mental emotion from one body to another, and from one mind to another." • t
Admitting the truth of this new version of the fluid notion, you will,
undoubtedly, desire to be informed what the Deity is, or what he ever
did, or can do. For this " Etherium " occupies all space, communi-
cates all motion between matter and mind. But perhaps Mr. Grimes
would tell us that this " Etherium " is, itself, God. He says :
" The motions of etherium are the ne plus ultra of human knowledge. It
moves and communicates its motions to other things, this is certain ; but what
is the origin of its motions we cannot know."*
The visions of the prophets, and the miracles of the New Testament,
are, by this writer, ascribed to this same " etherium :"
" The practice of laying on of hands upon the sick, to heal them, referred to
in the New Testament, is precisely the etheriopathic practice."
" Who that compares the ancient seers with modern clairvoyants, and pos-
sessors of second sight, can doubt that they all belong to the same class .-""t
* Etherology, p. 156. t lb., p. 41.
LETTER Vll.
Y
BOSTON, July 21, 1845.
DEAR Sis,-It was
supposed that the efforts of Dr. Buchanan, some
two years since, to give a new
development of the old notions about a
fluid, would be the last attempts ofthe kind, at least by any one
pretend-
ing to scientific attninrnents. But that supposition, it seems, was not
well founded. ln the work to which l have before referred, by Mr.
Grimes, a labored attempt is made to revive the old notions of Van Hel-
Inont, under the new-fangled name of "
Etlierium I" And yet, Mr. G.
belabors Dr. Buchanan with great severity, for doing this very thing!
This "
ctlierium," says this author,
"Is amctcvéei! siibstctncc, occupying space, which connects the planets and
tll earth, and which com-mimirrctss light and heat, electricity, gravitation, and
mental emotion from one body to another, and from one mind to another." *
|
Admitting the truth of this new version of the fluid notion, you will,
undoubtedly, desire to be informed what the DEITY is, or what he ever
did, or can do. For this "
Etherium" occupies all space, communi-
cates all motion between matter and mind. But perhaps l'lr. Grimes
would tell us that this "
Etherium
"
is, itself, God. He says :-
"The motions of othorium are the no
plus ultra of human knowledge. lt
moves and communicates its motions to other things, this is certain, but what
is the origin of' its motions We cannot know."
The visions of theiprophets, and the miracles of the New Testament,
are, by this writer, ascribed to this some
"
etherium :"
"
The practice of laying on of hands upon the sick, to hcal them, referred to
in thc New Testament, is precisely the etheriopathic practice."
"
VVho that compares the ancient scors with modern clairvoyants, and pos-
sessors of second sight, can doubt that they all belong to the same class ?"t
"
Etherology, p. 156. i lb., p. 41.
CRITICAL REMARKS. 35
However, it would not be consistent with my present design, to at-
tempt an examination of these notions. I merely wish to show that
this work contains nothing new, in the form of a theor}-, which was not
anticipated, and, as I think, sufficiently refuted in my work on Pathetism,
two years ago. If the influence heretofore known under the name of
" Mesmerism," be a. fluid, eliminated out of one body into another, it is
not of the least consequence what you call it, whether Animal Magnet-
ism, with Van Helmont and Mesmer, or Neuraura, with Dr. Buchanan,
or Electiricty, Etherium, or any thing else you please. Nor is it easy
to see any singular merit in substituting new terms for the same old no-
tions. I say old notions, for, though this writer has elaborated a work
of some 350 pages, professedly in explanation of the " Philosophy of
Mesmerism," and has numerous repetitions of his ideas on the same
subject, yet I cannot perceive that he has, in the principal features of his
theor}', advanced a single step from jMesmer and Puysegar, or even Dr.
Buchanan. The fluid notion is common to them all, and it is one and
the same thing, by whatever name it may be distinguished. I find in
his book not a few contradictions, and incorrect statements ; and a dis-
play of more self-esteem than was necessary to antagonize all the ex-
citement he could induce in his conscientiousness, benevolence and
suavity combined. As he makes a show of having confuted my own the-
ory of Pathetism, it will not, perhaps, be out of place for me to give the
work a passing notice ; and in doing so, if it should appear that he has
made statements which will not bear the scrutiny of scientific research,
statements about historical facts, which are false, and, withal, if it should
appear that he has borrowed a few " new discoveries " from my own
work on Pathetism, and claimed them as his own, I will leave it to you
to say, how much these things are to weigh in favor of the " etherium
"
notions of Mr. J. Stanly Grimes.
As his avowed object was to prove the truth of the fluid theory, in op-
position to the theory of Pathetism, it was to be expected, as a matter of
course, that he would have informed his readers what the theory of
Pathetism was, that he might have the full benefit of its confutation.
This, however, he has not done, and though he quotes largely from the
Magnet^ (and when it suits his purpose) from my book on Pathetism, yet
he has never once attempted to state my theory in my own words ! My
book contains my views on this subject, up to the time it was issued.
The Magnet was never designed to advocate any theory, exclusively,
and hence I stated in its pages, from time to time, that its object was to
give facts, and afford an opportunity for all friends of the science to ex-
CRITICAL I{EIlIARI{S. df
However, it would not be consistent with my present design, to at
tempt an examination of these notions. I tnervly wish to show that
this work contains nothing new, in the form ot` a
tlmory whit lt was not
anticipated, and,as I think, suttieientlv 1't't`utod in my work on Pstthetisln,
two years ago. If the influence heretofore known under the name of
"
Mcsmcrism," be a_flu~id, eliminated out of one
body into anwtlt-'=_, it is
not ot' the least consequence what you call it, whether flttintal .§l.L'IgIlCf-
is-m, with Van Holmont and Mesrner, or D.'ett;r'enra, with Dr. Buchanan.
or _E`Ze°<:t'irt`cty, Etherium, or any thing else you please. Nor is it easy
to see
any singular merit in substituting new terms for the some old no-
tions. I say old notions, for, though this writer has clahorated a worla
of some 350 pages, professedly in explanation of the "
1'hilosoph}' of
Mesmerism," and has numerous
repetitions of his ideas on the some
subject, yet I cannot perceive that he has, in the principal features ofhis
theory, advanced at
single step from llesmer and Puysegar, or even Dr
Buchanan. The __1l't¢.iri notion is common to them all, and it is one and
the same
thing, by whatever name it may be distinguished. ltind in
his book not a few cozztracfictiozts, and t`t2ror1'ccr stetffnents; and a dis~
play of more self-esteem than was
I'16CE'SSE3.]`§,' to antagonize all the exe
citement he could induce in his conseicntiousness, henevolence and
Suavity Combined. is he makes a s/7to2t"of` having confuted my own the-
ory of Pathetism, it will not, perhaps, he out of place for me to
give thc
work a
passing notice; and in doing so, if it should appear that he has
made statements which will not bear the scrutin}' of scientiic research,
statements about historical facts, which are false, and, withal, if it should
appear that he has borrowed a few "
new discoveries
"
from my own
work on Pathetism, and claimed them as his own, I will leave it to you
to say, how much these things are to weigli in favor of the "
etherium
'°
notions of Mr. J. Stanly Grimes.
As his avowed object was to prove the truth of the fluid theory, in op-
position to the theory of Patlictisni, it was to he expected, as a matter of
course, that he would have infbrmed his readers what the theory of
Pathetism was, that he might have the fullnbenefit of its confutation,
This, however, he has not done, and though he quotes largely from thc
Magnet, (and when it suits his purpose) from roy hook on Pathctistn, yet
he has never once attempted to state my theory in my own words I My
book contains my views on this subject, up to the time it was issued.
The Magnet was never
designed to advocate any theory, exclusively,
and hence I stated in its pages, from time to time, that its object was to
give facts, and afford an
opportunity for all friends of the science to ex-
36 CRITICAL REMARKS.
press their own views in their own way. And yet, while Mr. Grimes
had my book before him, (for he says he " had read it carefully,") he
fills a dozen of his own pages with quotations, not from my work, but
from the numbers of the Magnet, and which contained views that I had
expressly repudiated in my work on Pathetism. If this was without de-
sign, on the part of Mr. G., it shows his ignorance ; if it was done from
design, it shows a dishonest motive.
But, waiving this ground of complaint, let us proceed to notice a few
of the rays of light which Mr. G. himself assumes to have shed upon
this subject.
" One mind cannot influence another but through the instrumentahty of mo-
tion.—p. 17.
This is obscure. He should have told us, of which mind the motion
is affirmed —the one that is acted upon, or the other ; and also whether
there can be thought without motion. Because if a mere thought may-
be the cause or effect of cerebral motion, or may be the necessary ac-
companiment of cerebral motion, there is a sense in which one mind,
without motion in itself, at the time, may act upon another mind. It is
when one mind is excited or depressed, or impressed, in any way, by its
conceptions, merely, of another mind.
" One thing' cannot influence another with which it is not in contact, unless
there is some material substance existing or passing between every portion of
the space which separates them." lb.
Doubted. It would follow, from this assumption, that the Deity him-
self cannot influence mind without physical " contact," or that there
could be no relation or connection between two different minds, with-
out physical " contact." My mind is, at this moment, influenced by
my conceptions of Adam, so that it is true, that in some sense, Adam's
existence communicates motion or emotion to my own mind ; but it is
not true, that there is a " material connection " between my mind and
that of Adam, the first man that ever lived.
The following contains a new idea :
"The involuntary motions constitute life. —-^. 26.
What is the difference in " involuntary motions .?!' Are they not
alike } And if so, then it follows that all " involuntary " motions are
36 CRITICAL REMARKS.
press their own views in their own
way. And yet, While Mr. Grimes
had my book bef'o1'e him, (for he says he "
had read it caref'ully,") he
Htls a dozen of' his own
pages with quotations, not from my work, hut
from the numbers of the Magnet, and which contained views that I had
'arcpressly tepudtctcd in my work on Pathetisin. If this was without de-
sign, on the part of Mr. G., it shows his ignorance; if it was done from
design, it shows a dishonest motive.
But, waiving this ground ot' complaint, let us
proceed to notice a few
ofthe rays of light which Mr. G. himself assumes to have shed upon
this subject.
"
One mind cannot influence another but through the instrumentality of' mo-
tion.--p. 17.
This is obscure. He should have told us, of which mind the moi-ion
is afhrlned-the one that is acted upon, or the other; and also whether
there can be t}'z0u.g}'it Without. motion. Because if a mere
thought may
he the cause or efl`cct of cerebral motion, or
may be the necessary ac-
companiment of cerebral motion, there is a sense in which one mind,
without motion in itself, at the time, may act upon another mind. It is
when one mind is excited or
depressed, or
impressed, in any way, by its
tonceptions, merely, ot' another mind.
"
One thing* cannot influence another with which it is not in contact, unless
there is seine anetfriai substance existing or
passing between every portion of
the space which separates them."-[h.
Doubted. It would follow, from this assumption, that the Deity him-
self' cannot influence mind without physical
"
contact," or that there
could be no relation or connection between two diIi`e1°ent minds, with-
out physical "contact" My mind is, at this moment, influenced hy
my conceptions of Adam, so that it is true, that in some sense, Adam's
existence communicates motion or emotion to my own mind; hut it is
not true, that there is a
"
material connection "
between my mind and
that of Adam, the first man that ever lived.
The following contains a new idea :
"
The involuntary motions constitute Zife.--p. 26.
Vtfhat is the diti"erence in "involuntary motions ?!' Are they not
alike? And if so, then it follows that all "
involuntary
"
motions are
CRITICAL REMARKS. 37
life ! Hence all magnetic, or electrical, motions constitute life, and this
"'
etherium," which " generates," as this writer tells us, every thing else,
besides itself, must be alive, also ! And in the same breath he informs
us, in addition to the above, that this " etherium " modifies every thing,
and is, at the same time, modified by every object from which it is
emanated ! It is the cause and the effect, at one and the same time, of all
things
!"
Here is another " etherium " definition :
—
" Sympathy is when an active organ in the operator communicates its own
motions to the corresponding organ in the subject, so as to make it act in a sim-
ilar manner."—p. 36.
" Sympathy means same emotion, sa.xae feeling, same condition."—p. 160.
" The currents of the operator's etherium, after having moved the organs of
the operator himself, proceeded to the corresponding organs of the subject, and
moved them in a similar manner. This is sympathy in a strict philosophical
sense."—p. 196.
Let us see. The operator, it is said, wills his subject to laugh, and'
he laughs. The " active organ " in the operator, in this case, is his
vnll ; but the active organ in the subject is not his loill, but his mirth.
The operator, by a mere volition (it is said) causes his subject to walk
;
and in this, as well as in a thousand other like cases, the " active organs
"
in the operator and his subject are not the same. Our author furnishes a
case in point, and I will quote it here, inasmuch as he " takes the liberty
to recommend it to the attention of Dr. Elliotson." To my own mind, it
affords conclusive evidence that the author of " Etherology " is not so
familiar with the real nature of the subject on which he has written, as
he himself seems to imagine. He says :
" Take almost any person who is unacquainted with the subject, or with the
object of the experiment — ask him to sit down and close his eyes, and keep
them closed. Take hold of his hands, as if you were going to induct him in
the usual manner, and, after you have held them above five or ten minutes, let
go carefully of one hand, and will the thumb to move, and in five cases out of
six it will do so, even though the subject is not in the least asleep, and though
he is so slightly affected that he stoutly denies that he is affected at all. "—p. 292.
And the movement of a thumb, after having been tightly held, in
this manner, " for five or ten minutes," is appealed to by Mr. Grimes, as
a demonstration that a mere volition of the operator is sufiicient to move
the muscles of the patient ! And to such an experiment he invites the
4
CRITICAL REMARKS. 37
life .' Hence all magnetic, or electrical, motions constitute life, and this
"
etherinru," which "
generates," as this writer tells us, every thing else,
besides itself, must be alive, also! And in the same breath he informs
us, in addition to the above, that this "
etherium
"
modthes every thing,
and is, at the same time, modified by every object from which it is
emanated I It is the cause and the effect, at one and the same time, of all
things I"
Here is another "
etherium
"
definition :-
"
Sympathy is when an active organ in the operator communicates its own
motions to the corresponding organ in the subject, so as to make it act in a. sim-
ilar manner."-p. 36.
"
Sympathy means some emotion, same feeling, same condition."-p. 160.
"The currents of the operator's etherium, after having moved the organs of
the operator himself, proceeded to the corresponding organs of the subject, and
moved them in ni similar manner- This is sympe-thy in a strict philosophical.
sense."--p. 196.
Let us see. The operator, it is said, us-ills his subject to laugh, and
hc laughs. The "active organ
"
in the operator, in this case, is his
will ; but the active organ in the subject' is not his will, but his mirth..
The operator, by a mere volition (it is said] causes his subject to walk ;
and in this, as well as in a thousand other like eases, the "
active organs
"
in the operator and his subject are not thc same. Our author furnishes a
case in point, and I will quote it here, inasmuch as he "
takes the liberty
to recommend it to the attention of Dr. Elliotson." To my own mind, it
affords conclusive evidence that the author of "
Etherology" is not so-
familiar with the real nature of the subject on which hc has written, as
he himself seems to imagine. He says:
A
"Take almost any person who is unacquaintcd with the ubject, or with the-
object of the experiment-ask him to sit down and close his eyes, and keeps
them closed. Take hold of his hands, as if you were
going to induct him in
the usual manner, and, after you have held them above five or ten minutes, let
go carefully of one hand, and will the thumb to move, and in tive cases out of"
six it will do so, even though the subject is not in the least asleep, and though
he is so
slightly affected that he stoutly denies that he is affected at all."-p. 292.
And the movement ol' a thumb, after having been tightly held, in
this manner,
"
for fivc or ten rninutes," is appealed to by Mr. Grimes, as
a demonstration that a more volition of thc operator is sutlicient to move
the muscles of the patient! And to such an experiment he invites the
4
38 CRITICAL REMARKS.
attention of one of the most able physiologists in England, for the pur-
pose of enabling him to make up his mind as to the effects of the human
will, when exerted, independently of all contact, over a subject in the
sympathetic sleep !
The slightest attention to the sense o^ feeling, or of consciousness,
would seem sufficient to enable the merest novice to account for a move-
ment of the thumb, or any other part of the body under the control of
the subject's own will, after it has been subjected to the pressure of the
process above described. The mind, or the sense of feeling, instinctively
prompts one to such a movement, that he may perceive the state of the
part which has been compressed or subjected to a kind of involuntary
restraint. The eifects would be the same upon the limbs of animals
and I am serious in saying, that Mr. Grimes would be still more suc-
cessful, if in future, he were to try, in the way he describes, the effects
of his " will " upon the tail of a cat, or any of the canine race. He
would, undoubtedly, see their tails move in all directions, after pinching,
but I could not advise him to believe that they moved solely in obedience
to a fluid eliminated into them from his brain. Let him go through
with the process of clasping or pinching the thumbs, or the tails, " and
then let go carefully," and " will " them not to move, and see if " in five
cases out of six " he succeeds, or that he can satisfy "Dr. Elliotson
"
that the results are produced by his ivill, independently of the imagina-
tion of the subject on whom he operates.
But, suppose the thumbs do move, as he assumes, merely because he
wills them to move ? How do results of this kind agree with his defini-
tion of sympathy, which he represents as a result that comes out from a
corresponding activity in the same organs, both in the operator and the
subject.
Mr. G. has considerable to say upon consciousness, and here is a
new idea upon it
" There are some reasons for suspecting, that every atom of matter in exist-
ence is capable of consciousness, when placed in the circumstances and condi-
tions favorable to its development."—p. 140.
" If consciousness depends upon an ultimate material particle, it is not im-
possible that the very identical consciousness which is now possessed by Queen
Victoria, was once possessed by Queen Maud ; and it may be, that if Her
Majesty will resolutely set to work, she may be able to recollect the circum-
stance. If this principle be admitted, it may be also, that the future state, con-
dition, and associations of consciousness, will be dependent upon the aptitudes
and habits, the moral and physical sympathies and antipathies which it has
acquired in its past and present state —but we can no longer touch bottom."—lb.
38 CRITICAL REM.-arms.
attention of one of the most able pbysiologists in England, for the pur-
pose of enabling him to make up his mind as to the effects of the human
will, when exerted, independently of all contact, over a
subject in the
sympathetic sleep l !
The slightest attention to the sense offeeling, or of consciousness,
would seem sufficient to enable the merest novice to account for a move-
ment ofthe thumb, or any other part of the body under the control of'
the subject's own will, after it has been subjected to the pressure of the
process above described. The mind, or the sense of feeling, instinctively
prompts one to such a movement, that he may perceive the state of the
part which has been compressed or subjected to a kind of involuntary
restrmlnt. The effects would be the same
upon the limbs of animals;
and I nm serious in saying, that Mr. Grimes would be still more suc-
cessful, if in future, he were to try, in the way he describes, the effects
of his "
will" upon the tail of a cat, or
any of the canine race. He
would, undoubtedly, see their tails move in all directions, after pinching,
but I could not advise him to believe that they moved solely in obedience
to a lluid eliminated into them from his brain. Let him go through
with the process of' elasping or pinching the thumbs, or the tails,
"
and
then let go carefully," and "
will
"
them not to move,and see if "
in tive
cases out of six" he succeeds, or that he can satisfy
"
Dr. Elliotson
"'
that the results are
produced by his will, independently of the imagina-
tion of the subject on whom he operates.
But, suppose the thumbs do move, as he assumes, merely because he
wills them to move? How do results of this kind agree with his defini-
tion of sympathy, which he represents as a result that comes out from a
corresponding activity in the some
organs, both in the operator and the
subject.
Mr. G. has considerable to say upon consciousness, and here is a
new idea. upon it :
"
There are some reasons for suspecting, that every atom of matter in exist-
ence is capable of consciousness, whn placed inthe circumstances and condi-
tions favorablc to its development."--p. 140.
"
If consciousness depends upon an ultimate material particle, it is not im-
possible that the very identical consciousness which is now possessed by Queen
Victoria, was once possessed by Queen Maud; and it may be, that if Her
Majesty will resolutely set to work, she may be able to recollect the circum-
stance. If' this principle be admitted, it may be also, that the future state, con-
dition, and associations of consciousness, will be dependent upon the aptitudes
and habits, the moral and physical sympathies and antipathies which it has
acquired in its past and present state -but we can no longer touch bottom."-Ib.
CRITICAL REMARKS. 39
Such is the light which this writer sheds upon consciousness^ and the
above is in perfect keeping with two-thirds of his book, in which he ex-
patiates with equal clearness, when it is equally impossible for him or
any of his readers to " touch bottom," or tell, with any degree of cer-
tainty, what his meaning is. The following extracts show us one way
in which this writer accounts for clairvoyance
:
" I have seen a ring handed to a subject ; and the owner of the ring, who lived
at a distance, described—the sex, health, residence and state ofmind, and many
other circumstances, with great accuracy. The ring being inducted by the
etherium of the owner, partially retains and communicates the motions which it
has received, just as a magnet does, or a scented handkerchief. The ring, if it
has continued to emanate motions of etherium all the loay from the place where
the owner resides, to the residence of the subject, has made a path which may
aid the clairvoyant subject in finding him.—pp. 233, 234.
" If it has." Why does the writer put in this " if .>" According to
his theory, every particle of matter is constantly emitting the " etheri-
um," and if the ring does not emit the etherium before it reaches the
clairvoyant, it emits none afterward ; and if it emits none after it reaches
the subject, of course he could not, according to this " etherium " theory,
tell where the ring came from !
Nor is this the only difficulty
:
" The motions of the etherium are peculiarly modified in each successive ave
nue or stage through which it is obliged to pass."
" Etherium is modified by each external object from which it emanates ; for
there is no doubt that every object imparts its own peculiar character, in some
degree, at least, to the etherium which it is constantly receiving and emitting.**
—p. 21.
Now, conceive, if you can, of a "^a^/t" made by this " etherium,"
say five hundred miles, " all the way " from the place where the owner
of the ring resides, to the residence of the subject," and this, too, while
every particle of the atmosphere, and every other object with which the
ring has come in contact, during this immense distance, has, in ten
thousand ways, operated in " modifying " its " motions." The mind has
no faculty for conceiving the possibility of results brought about in this
way, except, indeed, it be done by that all potent organ of Creden-
civENEss, of which Mr. Grimes makes so great an account. The notion,
however, is not original, as Mr. Grimes seems to think. The same idea
is advanced by Mr. Townshend, and it is believed to have been suffi-
ciently refuted, in my work on Pathetism, three years ago.
CRITICAL REMARKS. 39
Such is the light which this writer sheds upon consciousness, and the
above is in perfect keeping with two-thirds of' his book, in which he ex-
patiates with equal clearness, when it is equally impossible for him or
any of his readers to "touch bottom," or tell, with any degree of cer-
tainty, what his meaning is. The following extracts show us one way
in which this writer accounts for clairvoyamce .°
" I have seen a
ring handed to a subject; and the owner of the ring,who lived
at a distance, described-the sex, health, residence and state ofmind, and many
other circumstances, with great accuracy. The ring being inducted by the
etllerium of the owner, partially retains and communicates the motions which it
has received, just as a
magnet does, or a. scented handkerchief. The ring, if it
has continued to emanatie motions ofetherium all the racy-'from the place where
the owner resides, to the residence of the subject, has made a
path which may
aid the clairvoyant subject in finding him.-pp. 233, 234.
"
If it has." Vlfhy does the writer put in this "
it' P" According to
his theory, every particle of matter is constantly emitting the "
etheri~
urn," and if' the ring does not emit the etherium before it reaches the
clairvoyant, it emits none afterward ; and if' it emits none after it reaches
the subject, of course he could not, according to this "
etherium "
theory,
tell where the ring came from !
Nor is this the only difficulty:
"
The motions of the etherium are peculiarly modified in each successive ave
nue or stage through which it is obliged to pass."
"
Etheriurn is modified by each external object from which it emanates; for
there is no doubt that every object imparts its own peculiar character, in some
degree, at least, to the etherium which it is constantly receiving and emitting."
-p. 21.
Now, conceive, if you can, of a
"path" made by this "
etherium,"
say five hundred miles,
"
ali the way
"
from the place where the owner
of the ring resides, to the residence of the subject," and this, too, while
every particle of the atmosphere, and every other object with which the
ring has come in contact, during this immense distance, has, in ten
thousand ways, operated in "
modifying
"
its "
motions." The mind has
no
faculty for conceiving the possibility of results brought about in this
way, except, indeed, it be done by that all potent organ of CREDEN-
CIVENESS, of which Mr. Grimes makes so
great an account. The notion,
however, is not original, as Mr. Grimes seems to think. The same idea
is advanced by Mr. Townshend, and it is believed to have been sutli-
ciently refuted, in my work on Pathetism, three years ago.
40 CRITICAL REMARKS.
But it is impossible to reconcile Mr. G.'s notions with his own the-
ory, and in his attempts to confute Dr. Buchanan's notions, he com-
pletely upsets his own. For instance, Mr. G. says :
" Admitting that emanations of etherium stream from the extremities of the
fingers, would they not be conducted away in all directions by the innumerable
nerve and blood vessels, the skull and membranes which intervene between the
spot touched and the phreno-organs which are supposed to be excited?" —p, 282.
Precisely so ! And admitting that the " etherium streams " from the
ring, how is it conducted into one of the clairvoyant's organs rather than
another ? " Etherology " does not, and cannot, tell how ; and thus
you will perceive, that while Mr. G. confutes Dr. Buchanan, he con-
futes himself also ; though, I should add, perhaps, that the above argu-
ment is not original with Mr. G., as it was published some two years be-
fore his book appeared, as you will see, by turning to my work, pages 73
and 343, where you will find that I used this very same argument, and for
a similar purpose ; it was to show the falsity of Dr. Buchanan's theory,
in relation to the excitement of the cerebral organs by a fluid.
The following direction for operating, will show that Mr. Grimes
himself has what he calls the organ of '"'
CredenciniLsness ''''
well devel-
oped, as well as his subjects :
" Let the subject sit down, and not cross his legs, as it will interrupt the
circulation." —p. 315.
Crossing the legs " interrupts the circulation " of the etherium ! ! !
And on page 236 he gives the particulars of an experiment with one
of his " credencive " subjects, who saw the fluid [ !
] or " etherium,"
as he calls it :
" The moment she mentioned the fluid, I interrupted her, and asked her what
^wid she meant. She answered ' This,' holding out her fingers and moving
them as if she perceived something emanating from them ; ' this is it, don't
you see it ?'
"
Whether our author himself actually saw the fluid, or not, he has not
informed us. But he has yet to learn that when " Marvellousness " is
once excited to a certain degree, he or his subjects can see or believe
any thing. He can see the " fluid " stop the moment a subject happens
to " cross his legs " while the operator is inducing the sleep ; and one
of Dr. Buchanan's followers, in New York, (S. J., Esq.,) once told me
that he himself had positively " seen the fluid streaming from his own
40 CRITICAL REMARKS.
But it is impossible to reconcile Mr. G.'s notions with his own the-
ory, and in his attempts to confute Dr. Buchanarfs notions, he com-
pletely upsets his own. For instance, Mr. G. says :
"
Admitting that emanations of etherium stream from the extremities of the
fingers, would they not be conducted away in all directions by the innumerable
nerve and blood Vessels, the skull and membranes which intervene between the
spot touched and the phreno-organs which are
supposed to be excited ?"-p. 232.
Precisely so! And admitting that the "
etherium streams
"
from the
ring, how is it conducted into one of the clairvoyant's organs rather than
another F "
Etherologyf' does not, and cannot, tell how ; and thus
you will perceive, that while Mr. G. confutes Dr. Buchanan, he con-
futes himself also ; though, l should add, perhaps, that the ahove argu-
ment is not original with Mr. G., as it was
published some two years he-
fore his book appeared, as
you will see, by turning to my work, pages 73
and 343, where you will find that l used this very same
argument, and for
a similar purpose ; it was to show the falsity of Dr. Buehanaifs theory,
in relation to the excitement of the cerebral organs by a fluid.
The following direction for operating, will show that Mr. Grimes
himself has what he calls the organ of "-Cv'edencimtsness" well clevel-
oped, as well as his subjects :
_'* Let the subject sit down, and not cross his legs, as it will interrupt the
circulation."-p. 315.
Crossing the legs
"
interrupts the circulation "
of the etherium l I l
And on
page 236 he gives the particulars of an
experiment with one
of his "credeneive "
subjects, who saw the _fluid [ !] or "etherium,"
as he calls it :--
"
The moment she mentioned the jlaid, I interrupted her, and asked her what
_fluid she meant. She answered 'This,' holding out her Hngers and moving
them as if she perceived something emanating from them; 'this is it, don't
you see it ?'
"
VVhether our author himself actually saw the iiuid, or not, he has not
informed us. But he has yet to learn that when "
Marvellousness "
is
once excited to a certain degree, he or his subjects can see or believe
any thing. He can see the "
fluid "
stop the moment a
subject happens
to
"
cross his legs
"
while the operator is inducing the sleep ; and one
of Dr. Buehanan's f'ollowers, in New York, (S. J., Esq.,) once told me
that he himself had positively
"
seen the Huid streaming from his own
CRITICAL REMARKS. 41
fingers," at a certain time, while in the act of operating for the cure of
some disease ! It was, he said, of " the color of smoke ! !
"
It has been in the excitement of the same organs of Marvellousness^
that somnambulists have been made to declare that they " saw the fluid ;"
but this is not so much to be wondered at, as it is when we find opera-
tors, claiming a medium degree of intelligence, who profess their belief
in these sights. A man who could believe that his subject actually saw
an invisible "^wirf," must have an organ of " Credenciveness " by far
loo large to allow of his hesitating to believe any thing which afforded
the least prospect of gratification to his love of distinction, or self-
esteem. A change of circumstances would put him in a position of ri-
valship with Joe Smith, or Joanna Southcote ; and you will, I think,
agree with me, when I declare it as my opinion, that science has but
little to expect from the labors of such minds.
CRITICAL REMARKS. 41
fingers," at a certain time, while in the act of operating for the cure of
some disease I It was, he said, of "the color of smoke ! J
"
It has been in the excitement of the same organs of Mawellousness,
that somnambulists have been made to declare that they
"
saw the fluid ;"
but this is not so much to be wondered at, as it is when we Hnd opera~
tors, claiming a medium degree of intelligence, who profess their belief'
in these sights. A man who could believe that his subject actually saw
an invisible "_jluid," must have an
organ of "
Credeneiveness "
by far
too large to allow of his hesitating to believe any thing which afforded
the least prospect of gratification to his love of distinction, or self-
esteem. A change of circumstances would put him in a
position of ri-
valship with Joe Smith, or Joanna Southcotc ; and you will, I think,
agree with ine, when I declare it as
my opinion, that science has but
little to expect from the labors of such minds.
LETTER VIII.
Boston, July 24, 1845.
Dear Sir,—As you desire it, I proceed to point out a few of Mr.
Grimes's incorrect statements —statements which are so palpably false
some of them, at least, that I find it utterly impossible to account for
them, consistently with either his intelligence or honesty. If he did not
know that the following representations were false, he was incompetent
for writing upon the subject on which he undertook to enlighten the
public. If he made them, knowing them to be false, he is guilty of a
crime that renders him unworthy of public confidence as an author or
teacher on any subject. He says :
" My object is to rebut the absurd doctrine of Sunderland, Buchanan, and
others, that clairvoyance depends upon a peculiar organ, which was bestowed
upon man for that very purpose."—p. 218.
My theory is contained in my work, the latest publication I have made
on the subject of clairvoyance, and every thing else connected with this
subject till now. And Mr. Grimes declares, page 1 12, that he had read
this work carefully. I never taught that clairvoyance depended upon a
peculiar organ given us for this purpose. As you have seen, I resolve this
power into what has been denominated Instinct. There is not the
least reason for this representation of Mr. Grimes.
Here is another mistake :
" It should be understood that La Roy Sunderland claims to have been the
first to discover that the organs of the brain can be excited by touching them,"
—p. 109.
This is not true ; as you will see by turning to pages 139, 141, and
142 of my book, and especially the first and second paragraphs on page
141. I stated, years ago, that I had no confidence in those cerebral ex-
citements for proving the precise locations of the mental organs.
And here is another
" Not one of those who have adopted this doctrine concerning the excitement
of the phreno-organs, has yet retracted, or even expressed a doubt concerning
the truthfulness of their conclusions."—p. 281.
LETTER VIII.
Bosron, Jem' 24, 1845.
DEAR SIR,--~.A.s you desire it,I proceed to point outa few of Mr.
Grimes's incorrect statements -statements which are so
palpablyfalse,
some of them, at least, that Iiind it utterly impossible to account for
them, consistently with either his intelligence or
honesty. If he did not
know that the following representations were false, he was
incompetent
for writing upon the subject on which he undertook to enlighten the
public. If he made them, knowing them to he false, he is guilty of a
Crime that renders him unworthy of public confidence as an author or
teacher on
any subject. He says :
"My object is to rebut the absurd doctrine of Sunderland, Buchanan, and
others, that clairvoyance depends upon a. peculiar organ, which was bestowed
upon man for that very purpose."--p. 218.
My theory is contained in my work, the latest publication I have made
on the subject of elairveyanee, and every thing else connected with this
subject till now. And ll-Ir. Grimes declares, page 112, that he had read
this work carefully. I never
taught that clairvoyance depended upon a
peculiar organ given us for this purpose. As you have seen,I resolve this
power into what has been denominated INSTINCT. There is not the
least reason for this representation of Mr. Grimes.
Here is another mistake :
"It should IJ understood that La Roy Sunderland claims to have been the
first to discover that the organs of' the brain can be excited by touching them,"
-p. 109.
This is not true ; as
you will se by turning to pages 139, 141, and
142 of my book, and especially the first and second paragraphs on page
141. I stated, years ago, that I had no
coryidence in those cerebral ex-
citcments for proving the precise locations of the mental organs.
And here is another :
"
Not one of those who have adopted this doctrine concerning the excitement
ofthe phreno-organs, has yet retracted, or even
expressed a doubt concerning
-the truthfulness of their conclusions."--p. 281.
CRITICAL REMARKS. 43
Almost every page of my work might be referred to as a confutation
of the above statement. See especially, pages 141, 145, 146, 147,
240, and 247 inclusive. Compare these pages with the following, and
it will be seen that while I make nothing at all of the excitement of the
phrenological organs by Pathetism, Mr. G. himself makes every thing of
it. He is speaking of his clairvoyant subject who saw [ !
] the " ethe-
rium :"
—
" I then asked her concerning the location and uses of several new phreno-
organs, which I suppose that / had discovered^ and, to my surprise, she answered
me without the least hesitation, and confirmed all my previous opinions [of
course she did, for she got her views from Mr. Grimes' mind, according to his
own theory,] not even excepting those opinions I had never mentioned to any
one, and which she could only have known from clairvoyance. As far as 1
know, this was the first attempt to learn the functions of the brain by means of
Mesmerism ; and notwithstanding all the boasting of the Pathetizers and Neu-
rologizers, I still think that this method is the only one which will be found of
any use."—p. 237.
Now, I depend neither upon cerebral excitements, by Pathetism, nor
upon the statements of clairvoyants, for fixing the locations of the men-
tal organs ; and all this I published to the world years ago.*
On page 250, Mr. G. informs us that the credit of having discovered
the head-touching principle is supposed to belong to Spencer T. Hall
;
but in making this statement, he only shows his want of information, as
you will see by turning to page 142 of " Pathetism."
Mr. G. complains bitterly of " Buchanan, Sunderland, Caldwell," and
even " Dr. EUiotson and others," for having, as he thinks, so strangely
overlooked his wonderful discoveries, for you should know, that he
seems to claim the credit of having discovered about every thing in
" Phrenology and Mesmerism " there was to be found out.
Throughout his book he has much to say on what he denominates
* When I first excited the separate cerebral organs, in August, 1841, 1 thought
I had made an important discovery, one by which I could demonstrate the truth
of Phrenology, and the precise location of each of the mental organs. But I
very soon found that those excitements could not be depended upon, as 1 at first
supposed, and becoming satisfied that what I thought was a discovery was of no
very great importance, and, as I found A. B. C. D., &c., throughout the coun-
try, claiming the same discoveries, 1 long ago relinquished my claims, being
perfectly willing that those who wished the credit of priority in those experi-
ments of exciting the mental organs, should enjoy it without any rivalship from
me.
CRITICAL REMARKS. 43
Almost every page of' my work might be referred to as a confutation
of the above statement. See especially, pages 141, 145, 146, 147,
240, and 247 inclusive. Compare these pages with the following, and
it will be seen that while I make nothing at all of the excitement of the
phronological organs by Pathetism, Mr. G. himself makes every thing of
it. He is speaking of his clairvoyant subject who saw the "
othe-
rium :"-
" I then asked her concerning the location and uses of' several new
phreno-
organs, which I suppose that Ihad discovered, and, to my surprise, she answered
me without the least hesitation, and confirmed all my previous opinions [of
course she did, for she got her views from Mr. Grimes' mind, according to his
own
theory,] not even
excepting those opinions I had never mentioned to any
one, and which she could only have known from clairvoyancc. As far as]
know, this was the first attempt to learn the functions of the brain by means of'
Mesrnerisrn; and notwithstanding all the boasting of the Pathetizers and Neu-
rologizers, I still think that this method is the only one which will be found of
any use."---p. 237.
Now, I depend neither upon cerebral exeitements, by Pathotism, nor
upon the statements of clairvoyants, for fixing the locations of the men-
tal organs; and all this I published to the world years aged*
On page 250, Mr. G. informs us that the credit of having discovered
the head-touching principle is supposed to
belong to Spencer T. Hall;
hut in making this statement, he only shows his want of information, as
you will see by turning to page 142 of "
Pathetism."
Mr. G. complains bitterly of' "'
Buchanan, Sunderland, Caldwell," and
even
"
Dr. Elliotson and others," for having, as he thinks, so
strangely
overlooked his vronderful discoveries, for you should know, that he
seems to claim the credit of having discovered about every thing in
"
Phrenology and Mesmerism
"
there was to he found out.
Throughout his book he has much to say on what he denominates
'*
When I first excited the separate cerebral organs, in August,1841, I thought
I had made an important discovery, one
by which l could demonstrate the truth
of Phrenology, and the precise location of' each of' the mental organs. But I
very soon found that those excitements could not be depended upon, as I at first
supposed, and becoming satisfied that what I thought was a. discovery was of no
very great importance, and, as I found A. B. C. D., dec., throughout the conn-
try, claiming the same discoveries,l long ago relinquished my claims, being
perfectly willing that those who wished the credit of priority in those experi-
ments of exciting the mental organs, should enjoy it Without any rivalship from
me.
44 CRITICAL REMARKS.
" Credenciveness," and " Credencive experiments." By Credencive-
ness, he means precisely what Gall, Spurzheim, Combe, and other
phrenologists mean by Marvellousness, or Credulity, and precisely what
I explained in my book, by " Faith," or the " mental apprehensions " of
the patient. The drift of my entire work goes to show, that I accounted
for most of the results produced by Dr. Buchanan, Mesmer, Baird, and
others, not by ajluid, but by the operation of certain relations brought
to bear upon the patient's mind, through his " apprehensions," or knowl-
edge of the operator's design, as you will have seen from my Theory,
(XIII.)
It was by this law of " Credenciveness," that I accounted for the
results produced by Mesmer, (page 65,) also the results which follow an
"assertion" of the operator, (pages 232, 246, 234, and 111. In this
way I accounted for the effects produced by the " Tractors " of Perkins,
(pp. 106-108) and numerous other phenomena, which had seemed to
remain shrouded in mystery, or attributed to supernatural agency. In-
deed, this very idea may be found repeated upon almost every page of
my book, so that any school-boy, who reads it, as Mr. Grimes says he
had, " Carefully," could not fail of perceiving this fact recognized as a
fundamental principle in my theory. But this same Mr. Grimes, who
*'
declines " an " acquaintance with George Combe," says he " finds it
impossible to understand " my theory, or, " if he does understand it,
it is perfectly obscured."—p. 112.
But now for the proof, that Mr. Grimes did understand my theory,
or a part of it, at least, and that he has horrowed it, and having baptized
it under the name of " Etherology," he has published it to the world as
his own, and claimed it as his own original discovery :
" Credenciveness will induct any part which the operator pleases, or even
any part which the subject believes or suspects that the operator desires to in-
duct. This principle of self-induction has never before, to my knowledge, been
announced."—p. 38.
And, lest the reader should not remember the above original an-
nouncement, he repeats the account again, in the following terms
" While engaged in performing various experiments, I made a very import-
ant DISCOVERY, which I have never before communicated to the public in
writing." [ !]
Preserve your gravity. Such oracular announcements as the above
should be received with becoming solemnity. Here is another :
44 CRITICAL REMARKS.
"
Credeneiveness," and "
Credeneive experiments." By Credencivc-
ness, he means precisely what Gall, Spurzheim, Combo, and other
phrenologists mean
by Marvellousness, or
Credulity, and precisely what
I explained in my book, by
"
Faith," or the "
mental
apprehensions
"
oi'
the patient. The drift of my entire work goes to show, that I accounted
for most of the results produced by Dr. Buchanan, Mesmer, Baird, and
others, not by ajlu-ici, but by the operation of certain relations brought
to bear upon the patient's mind, through his "
apprehensions," or knowl-
edge of the opera.tor's design, as
you will have seen from my Theory,
(XIIL)
It was by this law of' "Credenciveness," that I accounted for the
results produced by ilrlesmer, (page 55,) also the results which follow an
"assertion" of the operator, (pages 232, 246, 234, and 111. In this
way I accounted for the effects produced by the "'
Tractors
"
of Perkins,
(pp. 106-108) and numerous other phenomena, which had seemed to
remain shrouded in mystery, or attributed to supernatural agency. In-
deed, this very idea may be found repeated upon almost every page of
my book, so that any school-boy, who reads it, as Mr. Grimes says he
had,
"
Carefully," could not fail of perceiving this fact recognized as a
fundamental p1"£nc'ipZe in my theory. But this same Mr. Grimes, who
"
declines
"
an
"
acquaintance with George Combo," says he "
finds it
impossible to understand
"
my theory, or, "if he does understand it,
it is perfectly obscured."-p. 112.
But new for the proof, that Mr. Grimes did understand my theory.,
or a part of' it, at least, and that he has ?`Jm°-rows it, and having baptized
it under the name of"' Etherology," he has published it to the world as
his own, and claimed it as his own
original discovery :
"
Credcnciveness will induet. any part which the operator pleases, or even
any part which the subject believes or
suspects that the operator desires to in-
duct. This principle of self'-induction has never
before, to my knowledge, been
announced."--p. 38.
And, lest the reader should not remember the above original an-
nouncement, he repeats the account again, in the following terms:
"
Vhilc engaged in performing' various experiments, I made a, vnnr IMPORT-
nar
mscovmw, which I have never before communicated to thc public in
Writing." [!]
Preserve your gravity. Such oracular announcements as the above
should be received with becoming solernnity. Here is another:
CRITICAL REMARKS. 45
"This explanation of the nature of credenciveness is a key to most of the
wonderful experiments and discoveries of Buchanan and Sunderland, of Baird,
Hall, and Elliotson. It explains, also, the apparent contradictions and absurdi-
ties which embarrassed the celebrated French Committee of which Dr. Frank-
lin was a member."
—
p. 195.
Now, Mr. Grimes does not seem to have known that a Committee of
the French Academy, in 1825, accounted for Mesmeric results in pre-
cisely the same way ; though indeed he has, on page 67 quoted from
the report of that Committee, the evidence of this fact, where they
account for those results by the " expectation " of the subject. And in
precisely the same way I accounted for them ; and if you examine pages
111 and 113 of Mr. G.'s book, you will find he has quoted passages from
my work, in which I had maintained this very same doctrine, in relation to
the effects caused by " credenciveness," or the " apprehension " of the
patient ; effects which have been well known to all persons familiar with
mind ever since the world was made, and which Mr. G. so gravely thinks
no one ever knew before himself! I noticed them in my work simply
for the purpose of illustrating certain laws of the mind, which I had
attempted to arrange and classify in my Theory. And now, two years
after the announcement of my Theory, this writer, " while engaged in
performing experiments," makes and solemnly announces a most im-
portant and wonderful discovery of precisely the same thing
!
I have already quoted an argument he uses against Dr. Buchanan's
theory, (page 282,) and shown that the same argument was used two
years before, in my work, which Mr. Grimes says he had read " care-
fully." And, on pages 40, 41, he gives an explanation of Witchcrafl,
which he had " read carefully" in my book, page 210, On page 226,
he attempts to show how it is that " whole communities " are often
affected by sympathy and imitation, as if this explanation of those
strange results had never been thought of before ; but turn to my work,
pages 51 and 57, inclusive, and you will find the same explanation
had already been given, and which Mr. Grimes had " carefully read."
His illustrations of the clairvoyant power by " instinct," (page 232,) may
be found in my book, pages 213 and 214.
Mr. G. not only labors hard to establish his own priority of claim to
certain discoveries, but he puts forth certain claims in behalf of others,
which are equally unfounded, as the reader may see. Speaking of the
excitement of the separate cerebral organs, he says :
—
" There is no evidence that Sunderland or Buchanan made their experiments
before the spring of 1841, whereas Mr. Garfield made his known to me in the
CRITICAL RELIARKS. 45
"
This explanation of the nature of credencivcness is a key to most of the
wonderful experiments and discoveries of Buchanan and Sunderland, of Baird,
Hall, and Elliotson. It explains, also, the apparent contradictions and absurdi-
tic which embarrassed the celebrated French Committee of which Dr. Frank-
lin was a
member."-p. 195.
Now, Mr. Grimes does not seem to have known that a Committee of
the French Academy, in 1825, accounted for Mesmeric results in prc~
cisely the same
way; though indeed hc has, on
page 67 quoted from
the report of that Committee, the evidence of this fhct, where they
account for those results by the
"
expectation
"
of the subject. And in
precisely the same
way I accounted for them; and if you examine pages
111 and 113 of Mr. G.'s book, you will find he has quoted passages from
my work, in which lhad maintained this very same doctrine, in relation to
the eifects caused by
"
credenciveness," or the "
apprehension
"
of the
patient ; effects which have been well known to all persons familiar with
mind ever since the world was made, and which Mr. G. so
gravely thinks
no one ever knew before himself! 1 noticed them in my work simply
for the purpose of illustrating certain laws of the mind, which 1 had
attempted to arrange and classify in my Theory. And now, two years
after the announcement of my Theory, this writer,
"
while engaged in
performing experiments," makes and solemnly announces a most im-
portant and wonderful discovery of precisely the same
thing !
lhave already quoted an
argument he uses
against Dr. Buehanan's
theory, (page 282,) and shown that the same
argument was used two
years before, in my work, which Mr. Grimes says he had read "
care-
fully." And, on
pages 40, 41, he gives an
explanation of Witchcraft,
which he had "
read carefully
"'
in my book, page 210. Un page 226,
he attempts to show how it is that "
whole communities
"
are often
affected by sympathy and imitation, as if this explanation of those
strange results had never been thought of before ; but turn to my work,
pages 51 and 57, inclusive, and you will find the same
explanation
had already been given, and which Mr. Grimes had "carefully read."
His illustrations of the clairvoyant power by
"
instinct," (page 232,) may
be found in my book, pages 213 and 214.
Mr. G. not only labors hard to establish his own priority of claim to
certain discoveries, but he puts forth certain claims in behalf of others,
which are equally unfounded, as the reader may see.
Speaking of the
excitement of the separate cerebral organs, he says :-'
"There is no evidence that Sunderland or Buchanan made their experiments
before the spring of 1841, w}1erea.s_ Mr. Garfield made his known to me in the
46 CRITICAL REMARKS.
previous winter, so that if there is any honor in the priority, it belongs of right
to Mr. Garfield."—^. 238.
I have already referred to the places in my book, from which it will
be seen that I do not make any claims to priority, like those Mr. Grimes
represents ; and on page 141 he will find that I gave Dr. Cleaveland, of
Providence, R. I., the credit of having excited the cerebral organs by
this agency, as long ago as 1837, five years before the time when this
writer tells us it was first done by Mr. Garfield. Mr. Grimes must have
known this fact. Mr. G. refers to the first volume of the Magnet, for
what he says of my " claims " to priority ; and this, too, while he had
my work on Pathetism before him, in which I disclaimed every thing of
the kind, except what I have stated in the preface, page 7.
The following extracts are sufficient to show that Mr. G. has a little
self-esteem, as well as " credenciveness :
" Mr. George Combe had just arrir3d in this country, at the time when my
work was issued, and 1 was desirous to receive his sanction of the new doctrines
which I had advanced. But, before I had an opportunity to make his acquaint-
ance, I learned that he considered my new system as dangerous to his own per-
sonal ambition; — under these circumstances, I declined his acquaintance."
P- 12.
•' I believe that I am the first who has attempted to show their fallacy."
p. 281.
"I believe that I am the first to attempt to give an explanation, and on this
ground I claim some indulgence." p. 300.
The above forcibly reminds one of the lion in the verses of Sir Rich-
ard Blackmore —
" The lordly lion looked so wondrous grim,
His very shadow durst not follow him."
Mr. Grimes seems to feel extreme mortification that neither " Fowler,
Buchanan, nor Sunderland," had ever read his work on Phrenology
and he charges them with appropriating his phrenological discoveries in
terms indicative of great wrath :
—
" The reader may, perhaps, suppose that these great discoverers, when they
found that they had previously done me injustice, were prompt in acknowledge-
ments, and loud in their proclamations of my priority and correctness. My
dear reader, let me assure you that, on the contrary, they have forgotten, or
never knew, that such a work as that of mine was ever published." [! !
!] p. 245.
46 CRITICAL REMARKS.
previous winter, so that if' there is any honor in the priority, lt
belongs of right
to Iulr. Gariield."--p. 233.
I have already referred to the places in my book, from which it will
be seen that I do not make any claims to priority, like those Mr. Grimes
represents; and on page 141 he will find that I gave Dr. Cleaveland, of
Providence, R. I., the credit of having excited the cerebral organs by
this agency, as
long ago as 1837, five years before the time when this
writer tells us it was first done by Mr. Garfield. Mr. Grimes must
have
known this fact. Mr. G. refers to the first volume of the Magnet, for
what he says of my
"
claims" to priority; and this, too, while he had
my work on Pathetism before him, in which I disclaimed every thing of
the kind, except what l have stated in the preface, page 7.
The following extracts are sufficient to show that Mr. G. has a little
self-esteem, as well as
"'
credenciveness :
"
"
Mr. George Combe had just arrived in this country, at the time when my
Work was issued, and I was desirous to receive his sanction ofthe new doctrines
which I had advanced. But, before I had an opportunity to make his acquaint-
ance, I learned that he considered my new system as
dangerous to his own per~
sonal ambition;--under these circumstances, I nrzcurmn ms acQUaIs'r_NcB."
p. 12.
"I believe thatl am thejirsr who has attempted to show their fallacy."-
p. 281.
"I believe that Iam the _first to attempt to give an explanation, and on this
ground I claim some
indulgence."--p. 300.
The above forcibly reminds one of the lion in the verses of' Sir Rich-
ard Blackmore --
"The lordly lion looked so wondrous grim,
His very shadow durst not follow him."
Mr. Grimes seems to feel extreme mortification that neither "
Fowler,
Buchanan, nor Sunderland," had ever read his work on
Phrenology!
and he charges them with appropriating his phrenological discoveries in
Terms indicative of great wrath :--
"
The reader may, perhaps, suppose that these great discoverers, when they
found that they had previously done me
injustice, were
prompt in acknowledge-
ments, and loud in their proclamations of nu'
priority and correctness. My
dear reader, let me assure you that, on the contrary, they have Forgotten, or
never knew, that such a work as that of mine was ever published." [E 1 !] _p.245.
e s :|= 4 s 4 at
CRITICAL REMARKS. 47
For Messrs, Fowler and Buchanan I cannot speak ; but for myself, I
am under the disagreeable and painful necessity of confessing to you,
that I never did know, previous to reading the above humiliating an-
nouncement, " that such a work " as that referred to by the said J.
Stanley Grimes, " loas ever published." Indeed, I scarcely knew that
such a man as this Mr. Grimes had ever existed ; his book I never read,
never saw it, that I know of, and, though I perceive that this want of
knowledge on my part is a cause of poignant grief to the said Mr.
Grimes, for the life of me I cannot tell how he may find relief, unless he
should set his " credenciveness " to work, and " induct " his good sense
enough to counteract the undue development of his self-esteem. In
that case he might, perhaps, upon mature reflection, come to the grave
conclusion, that there may be a very few other blockheads in this
world, who, indeed, never did know, that the said J. Stanley Grimes,
" Etherologist," " Counsellor at Law," " President of the Buffalo Phre-
nological Society," " Professor of Medical Jurisprudence," and " Author
of a New System of Phrenology," had condescended to enlighten the
world upon this or any other subject.
CRITICAL REMARKS. 47
For Messrs, Fowler and Buchanan Ieannot speak; but for myself, I
am under the disagreeable and painful neeessity of confessing to you,
thatl never did know, previous to reading the above humiliating an-
nouncement, "that such a work
"
as that referred to by the said J.
Stanley Grimes, "was ever published." Indeed,I scarcely knew that
such at man as this Mr. Grimes had ever existed; his book I never read,
never saw it, thatl know of, and, though I perceive that this want of
knowledge on
my part is a cause of poignant grief to the said Mr.
Grimes, for the life of me I cannot tell how he may find relief, unless he
should set his "
credenciveness
"
to work, and "
induct
"
his good sense
enough _to counteract the undue development of his self-esteem. In
that case he might, perhaps, upon mature reflection, come to the grave
conclusion, that there may he a
very few other bleekheads in this
world, who, indeed, never did. know, that the said J. Stanley Grimes,
"
Etherologist,"
"
Counsellor at Law,"
"
President of the Buffalo Phre-
nologieal Society,"
"
Professor of Medical Jurisprudence," and "
Author
of a New System of' Phrenology," had condescended to enlighten the
world upon this or
any other subject.
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS
019 953 49il
Preparing for the Press.
PATHETISM;
A NEW THEORY OF MIND.
ILLUSTRATING THE
PHILOSOPHY OF HUMAN INFLUENCE AND ACTION, THE
SUSCEPTIBILITIES AND POWERS OF THE NERVOUS
SYSTEM, AND GIVING THE RATIONALE OF
LIFE AND HEALTH,
SLEEP, DREAMING, SOMNAMBULISM, TRANCE, ECSTACY, SPEC-
TRAL ILLUSIONS, VISIONS, INSANITY, CHARMS, WITCH-
CRAFT, SECOND-SIGHT, SPELLS, ENCHANTMENTS,
FASCINATION, DOUBLE CONSCIOUSNESS, HAL-
LUCINATION, DELUSION, INSTINCT or CLAIR-
VOYANCE, PRESENTIMENTS,
AND EVERY SENSATION, EMOTION, CONCEPTION, PERCEPTION, AND CON-
DITION, PECITLIAR TO
MIND;
TOGETHER WITH THE
EXTRAORDINARY PHENOMENA
Prevalent among the Ancient Egyptians, the Hindoos, Mohammedans,
Anabaptists, French Prophets, Ranters, Roman Catholics, Shaking
Quakers, Mormons, and other Sects, which have hitherto been considered
SUPERNATURAL OR MIRACULOUS,
And many similar and strange results sometimes connected with Reli-
gious, Political, and various other excitements, showing the nature of
Moral, Sympathetic, Mania, Temptations, the Principles concerned in
the Formation of Character, and the pursuit of the highest good, includ-
ing whatever relates to
PHRENOLOGY, PATHOGNOMY, PHYSIOGNOMY,
AND THE TRUE SCIENCE OF LIFE.
BY LA ROY SUNDERLAND.
" There cannot be a sounder maxim of reasoning, than that which points out to us the error of
attributing the phenomena that occur to remote and extraordinary causes, when they may, with equal
propriety, be referred to causes which obviously exist, and the results of which we daliy observe."
1
<
I
With Appendices, containing critical remarks on the Theories of Mesmer,
Townshend, Braid, Dr. Buchanan, J. S. Grimes, and others, and showing the
Philosophy of Religion, in its adaptation to the constitutional susceptibilities of
the Human Mind» &c. &c.
LIB HAFIY OF CONGRESS
HillIllIIIlllllil||||||E|I||lI|||`|l|flc|IIlllillllll Q
0 019 953 493 2
Preparing for the Press.
PATHETISM;
ANEW THEORY OF MIND, I
ILLUSTRATING THE
PHILOSOPHY OF HUMAN INFLUENCE AND ACTION, THE
SUSCEPTIBILITIES AND POWERS OF THE NERVOUS
SYSTEM, AND GIVING THE RATIONALE OF
LIFE AND HEALTH,
~
SLEEP, DREAMING, SOMNAMBULISM, TRANCE, ECSTACY, SPEC*
TRAL ILLUSIONS, VISIONS, INSANITY, CHARMS, VVITCH-
CRAFT, SECONIPSIGHT, SPELLS, ENCHANTMENTS,
FASCINATION, DOUBLE CONSCIOUSNBSS, HAL-
LUCINATION, DELUSION, INSTINCT Ol' CLAIR-
VOYANCE, PRESENTIMENTS,
AND EVERY SENSATION, EMOTION, CONCEPTION, PERCEPTION., AND CON*
DITIUN, PI-ICULIAR T0
MIND;
`
rooarnan wire 'ri-In
EXTRAORDINARY PHENOMENA
Prevalent among the Ancient Egyptians, the Hindoos, Mohammerlans,
Anahaptists, French Prophets, Renters, Roman Catholics, Shaking
Quakers, Mormons, and other Sects, which have hitherto been considered
SUPERNATURAL OR MIRACULOUS,
And many similar and strange results sometimes connected with Reli-
gious, Political, and various other excitements, showing the nature of
Moral, Sympathetic, Mania, Temptations, the Principles concerned in
the Formation of Character, and the pursuit of the highest good, includ-
ing whatever relates to
PHIRENOLOGY, PATIIOGNOIIIY, PHYSIOGNOMY,
ANI] THE TRUE SUIENGE OF LIFE.
BY LA ROY SUNDERLAND.
_._.,_ ,_,
"There cannot be a. sounder maxim of reasoning, than that which points out to us the error of
attributing the phenomena that occur to remote and extraordinary causes, when they may, with equal
propriety, be referred to causes which. obviously exist., and the results of which wa daliy observe."
With Appendices, containing critical remarks on the Theories of Mesmer,
Townshend, Braid, Dr. Buchanan, J. S. Grimes, and others, and showing the
Philosophy of Religion, in its adaptation to the constitutional susceptibilities of
the Human Mind, &o. &»o.
