{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1845__wienholt___seven_lectures_on_somnambulism.pdf","mytitle":"Seven Lectures On Somnambulism","mylang":"de"}
SEVEN LECTUKES
ON
SOMNAMBULISM,
TRANSLATED FROM THE GERMAN
DR ARNOLD WIENHOLT;
WITH A PREFACE, INTRODUCTION, NOTES,
AND AN APPENDIX ;
BY
J. C. COLQUHOUN, Esq. Advocate,
AUTHOR OF ISIS REVELATA, &.C.
Ail !J.i-aym rri'j gofiav ng rriv ia.-^r/.r)\i xarryiv lar^ix-^v
Hi Tr)v (Sopav; lUT^og yag ipiXoao(pog lao %og.
Hippocrates.
EDINBURGH:
ADAM AND CHARLES BLACK;
LONGMAN, BROWN, GREEN, AND LONGMANS, LONDON.
MDCCCXLV.
Digitized by the Internet Archive
in 2015
https://archive.org/details/b21454553
CONTENTS.
INTRODUCTION, - Page 1
BIOGRAPHICAL NOTICE OF WIENHOLT, - 31
LECTURE L, - - - 37
LECTURE IL, - - .53
LECTURE m., -
LECTURE IV., - - .85
LECTURE v., - • - - 99
LECTURE VI., - - - 114
LECTURE VU., - - 1 30
APPENDIX, - 1-147
POSTSCRIPT, - _ . 203
PREFACE.
The progressive history of Animal Magnetism,
subsequently to the interesting discovery of Mesmer,
is, although by no means singular, exceedingly cu-
rious and instructive, and will probably impress pos-
terity with no very exalted idea of the intellectual
character, the learning and practical wisdom of their
ancestors. The sole question originally propounded
to the erudite and scientific men of the age was sim-
ply this : Are certain phenomena capable of being
produced by certain processes ?—And this problem,
we should think, might have been easily solved, in
the most satisfactory manner, by experiment and ob-
servation.
It happened, unfortunately, however, that the al-
leged facts, which were proposed for investigation,
were far from being acceptable to a large majority
^'"^
PREFACE.
of the learned men, and, especially, those of the me-
dical profession of that day ; and besides, they were,
at the very outset, so encumbered and obscured by
theories, that the actual and really important question
at issue was almost entirely lost sight of amidst the
heat and smoke of the controversial discussions which
ensued between the partizans and opponents of the
new doctrine.
At length, a Commission, composed of members
of the most learned societies in the capital of France,
was appointed to investigate the contentious pro-
blem, with the assistance, however, not of the dis-
coverer himself, but of one of his pupils. This Com-
mission, accordingly, entered into the proposed inves-
tigation, and published a Report, in which they par-
tially admitted the essential facts, but rejected the
theory of Mesmer, for which they substituted a
theory of their own ; but, at the same time, they gave
such an unfavourable representation of the whole
matter as was calculated to obstruct the farther pro-
gress of the magnetic inquiry. One of the members
of this Commission, it is true—and the one who ap-
pears to have paid the greatest attention to the sub-
ject—the learned and conscientious Jussieu—dis-
sented fi-om his brethren, published a separate re-
port of his own, admitted the action of the alleged in-
PREFACE. IX
fluence, and presented a much more favourable view
of the whole question. But the quiet and dispas-
sionate voice of a single individual had little chance
of being heard, amidst the noisy clamours of igno-
rance, interest and prejudice, reinforced by the par-
tial but authoritative judgment of accredited scientific
bodies. Prejudice prevailed ; truth and reason were
thrust out of court; and Animal Magnetism was
compelled to submit to a general sentence of con-
demnation.
For several years, little was heard of Mesmer or
his doctrines. A few of his disciples, however, who
had been instructed in the magnetic art, continued
faithful to the principles of their master ;
—fresh con-
verts daily acceded to their ranks;—and amidst
many difficulties and discouragements, the system
spread far and wide, and an immense mass of facts
were, at length, accumvilated, which again attracted
public attention. Men of the highest eminence in
science now gave their countenance and sanction to
the inquiry ; and some even of those learned bodies,
which had previously been most forward in the busi-
ness of condemnation, now abjured their former er-
rors, consented to reopen the question, manfully
promoted inquiry, and even recommended the prac-
tice.
PREFACE.
in extensive practice, cures two-thirds or three-fourths
of his patients by means of this useful specific. And
if it can be proved that, in many morbid affections,
the imagination acts a decided part in the cure, what
would this circumstance prove against the advantages
of animal magnetism? If magnetism be the m^ost
effectual method of exciting the imagination, and if
this imagination be itself a remedy in diseases, then
magnetism has a decided superiority over the ordi-
nary methods of treatment. And supposing all this
to be the case, can it be said that the imagination is
less valuable as a remedy, than a portion of a mine-
ral, an insect, the root of a plant, or the bark of a
tree?—In short, this objection is, in every view,
most unfortunate, frivolous and absurd.
For a considerable period after the discovery of
animal magnetism, the opponents affected to consider
the phenomena alleged to have been elicited by the
practice as supernatural, miraculous, impossible and
absurd ; and they continually spoke of the magnet-
ists as visionaries, mystics, impostors, quacks, liars,
&c. to whom no credit ought to be given. Upon
investigation, however, it appeared that the pheno-
mena, thus objected to and denied, had been observ-
ed many ages before animal magnetism became
known as a science, and that they had occasionally oc-
PREFACE. Xlll
curred, In an apparently natural manner—sometimes
as symptomatic of a peculiar morbid action—with-
out the application of any artificial means whatever.
Animal magnetism, indeed, produces no effects but
such as have been met with in various other forms of
diseased or abnormal action. The routine physician
may deny the authenticity of these facts, but, In that
case, we must just remit him to his studies—to Hip-
pocrates, the animal magnetists, and nature. We
should advise him, in the meantime, however, to be
more cautious In displaying his Ignorance. Nervous
diseases, what has been called the black bile, poison-
ous plants,* the gases, the approach of death, have
* The Bajphne plant of the ancients, which, in all probability,
was our cheny-laurel, {lawo-cerasiis), produced a poison which
might occasion death, or, in a smaller quantity, convulsions, and
a species of delirium. This plant was sacred to Apollo, and the
Pythian priestess used to eat of it before delivering her oracles.
The convulsive state which ensued induced the spectators to believe
that she was inspired ; and the priestess herself was sufficientl>-
aware of the violent effects of the poison, and was always displeased
when inquisitive persons came to consult her in that state, and
sometimes even concealed herself in order to avoid them. Com.
pare all this with the experiments which Van Helmont tried upon
himself with the Napellus ; and with some ofthose phenomena which
occasionally occur in somnambulism.
If some fables have been received as truths, there are probably
many truths, disguised by circumstances, which have been generally
rejected as fabulous.
xiv PREFACE*
produced all the phenomena which are ascribed to
animal magnetism, and all history abounds in in-
stances of these states of the organism. Even the
phenomena of the natural and artificial somnambu-
lism appear to have been well known in ancient times,
but were afterwards little studied or understood,
until, in recent times, the discoveries of Messier and
his disciples brought them more prominently into no-
tice. The physician who is unacquainted with these
facts, and wilfully remains ignorant of them, has
made but small advances in the study of that portion
of physiological science which is of the most impor-
tance to his profession. By the bye, we have been
frequently led to suspect that when Christianity
superseded Paganism, much true and useful science
was sacrificed along with the false religion.
Soon after the mesmeric treatment came into
vogue, an objection was taken to the magnetic pro-
cesses, on the score of their alleged impropriety, in-
decency, &c., and the same objection, we believe,
has been frequently repeated even in recent times :
from which it would appear that our physicians had
resolved to erect themselves into very strict and fas-
tidious censores morum. Whatever may have oc-
curred in the earlier practice of animal magnetism,
however, this, in the present circumstances, is an
4
PREFACE. XV
objection resulting so entirely from absolute igno-
rance, or from wanton malignity, that its authors and
abettors really ought to be made ashamed of it.
To those who know and have witnessed the proces-
ses, the ludicrous falsehood of the objection must
be perfectly apparent. Indeed, there is much less
indecency, and much more delicacy, in the mag-
netic treatment, than in the ordinary medical prac-
tice*
We have already observed that, for a considera-
ble period, the sceptical opponents affected to con-
sider the magnetic phenomena as impossible and al-
together incredible ; as resulting entirely from false-
hood and imposition. Upon investigation, however,
it appeared that the phenomena, thus rejected as
inadmissible, had been observed many ages before
magnetism became known as a science ; and that
they had occasionally occurred in an apparently na-
tural manner without the co-operation of any arti-
ficial means. The opponents then found it conve-
nient to shift their ground of objection, and instead
of denying the authenticity of the facts, as former-
ly, they now alleged that animal magnetism was no
new discovery, in as much as the facts with which it
was conversant, had been previously known to phy-
sicians. These objections, it will be seen, were to-
Xvi PREFACE.
tally inconsistent with each other ; they were both
the offspring of blind and reckless hostility ; for the
former, it is evident, was completely refuted by the
latter. The previous observation of the facts tend-
ed to confirm their asserted reality, and showed not
only that they were not impossible, but also that
they were not mere inventions of the magnetists.
But the objectors either did not or would not see,
tljat the merit of Mesmer's discovery consisted in
proving that the phenomena, which had previously
been known to occur naturally and spontaneously,
or, at least, without any immediately perceptible
cause, could be produced by artificial means, and
almost at pleasiu-e. Their natural occurrence, in-
deed, is rare, whereas they can be frequently pro-
duced by magnetism. Nor do the objectors make
any account of the remedial efficacy of the magnetic
processes—which must be admitted to be entirely
a discovery of Mesmer's ; nor of the advantages
wliich this discovery is capable of conferring upon
medical and physiological science. Indeed, all the
sceptical objections which have been made to ani-
mal magnetism appear to have arisen from deplora-
ble ignorance, from bad feeling, defective observa-
tion, and wretched logic.
A particular phenomenon is observed to occui-
3
PREFACE. XVU
apparently from natural causes, and nobody denies
its reality. The same, or a similar phenomenon, is
produced by artificial means, (e. g. by magnetism),
and it is then declared to be impossible. Can such
objectors be held to possess common sense, not to
speak of reasoning power ?
But the practice of annual magnetism is alleged
to be dangerous—very dangerous. In a certain
sense, this objection is admitted, if it really can be
considered as a rational objection. But, then, the
same objection applies, in an equal degree, to the
administration of medicinal drugs, and to the use of
surgical instruments, by ignorant, unskilful, and in-
competent persons. Opium, arsenic, foxglove, mer-
cury, prussic acid, &c. are exceedingly dangerous
things ; and the less we have occasion to meddle
with them, no doubt, the better. Yet these and
many other very dangerous things are publicly sold
in all our apothecaries' shops, and are daily used in
the ordinary medical practice. It is part of the ob-
ject of animal magnetism to supersede the use of
these dangerous drugs, by introducing a milder and
no less efficacious mode of treatment. Do accidents
of the most fatal nature never occur in ihe course
of surgical operations? The author is aware of a
case, which occurred a few years ago, in which an
b
'^VIU PREFACE.
ignorant and unskilful practitioner, in the course of
an apparently trifling, operation, divided an impor-
tant artery, and left his patient to bleed to death.—
What was the opinion of the celebrated Dr FrJJnk,
in regard to the ordinary medical practice ? " Thou-
sands,''' says he, " are slaughtered in the quiet sick-
room. Governments should at once either banish
medical men and their art, or they should take pro-
per means that the lives of people may be safer than
at present, when they look far less after the prac-
tice of this dangerous art, and the murders commit-
ted in it, than after the lowest trade."
—
Medicus lo-
quitur. Plas any similar charge ever been giade
against animal magnetism ? Let medicine, surgery,
and animal magnetism be studied and practised by
intelligent, competent, and trust- worthy men, under
proper regulations and safe-guards, and the dangers
in question will, in a great measure, if not entirely,
cease.
From the very commencement, and ever since the
discovery, the medical faculty have been invited, nay,
repeatedly and anxiously called upon to investigate
the subject, and to superintend the practice of mag-
netism. As a body, they not only refused their
countenance and aid, but have embraced every op-
portunity to overwhelm the honest and respectable
PREFACE. AlX
supporters of the doctrine with every imaginable
species of contumely and abuse. They do not hesi-
tate to administer poisonous drugs, knowing them to
be poisonous ; but they will have nothing to do with
animal magnetism, forsooth, because they suppose it
may be dangerous. Is this reasonable—is it consis-
tent ? But in admitting the danger, they also admit
the influence; and why, as in the case of poisons,
will they not attempt to apply this influence to bene-
ficial purposes ?
Upon various occasions we have taken the oppor-
tunity of reprobating and discouraging the reckless
and jmprudent application of the magnetic processes,
which, like all other remedies, are only beneficial
when judiciously administered by skilful hands. And
"the same observation applies to medicine and sur-
gery-
But, in point of fact, the dangers of animal mag-
netism, in particular, have been enormously exag-
gerated, and set forth in ludicrously frightful array
by its antagonists, with a view, no doubt, to terrify
the weak, the timid, and the uninitiated. The prac-
tice, indeed, has been studiously misrepresented, as
if it were actually tainted with all the pollutions of
Pandemonium—a revival of all the exploded enor-
mities of witchcraft and incantation :
XX
PREFACE.
Somnia, (errores mmjicos, iniracula, sarjas,
NocHmios lemures, povte7itaque Tliessala.
Already, however, have these misrepresentations be-
gun to be estimated at their real value ; time, we
trust, will soon succeed in entirely dispelling the re-
maining frightful phantasmagoria; and then the
whole matter will come to be quietly contemplated
m its true features, and in its just dimensions.
Objections of this formidable ad captandum nature
are not extraordinary among the doctors. They are
genei-ally reiterated in one form or another, upon
every suggestion of an improvement in their medi-
cal practice. We remember when, upon the first
introduction of the vaccine inoculation, tender and
timid mothers were seriously warned, by some of the
profession, to beware of adopting the new preven-
tive of small-pox, lest their progeny should ultimate-
ly become metamorphosed into cattle,
We shall conclude our answer to this objection
with one or two general observations.
Where is the thing in this sublunary world, how-
ever beneficial in itself, which has not been occa-
sionally abused? Alas ! all things in nature—even
the best—are liable to abuse—they may become
dangerous in wicked hands. The very best of God's
gifts are daily liable to abute. It is notorious that
PREFACE.
the priests of religion have abused their influence,
and the opportunities afForded by their sacred func-
tions, for the gratification of their sinful passions ;
it stands upon record that the servants of justice
have committed murder ; it has happened that un-
principled physicians have condescended to adminis-
ter deadly poisons for base and unlawful purposes-
But, notwithstanding all this, is not religion still sa-
cred—justice necessary to society—medicine benefi-
cial? A French somnambulist observed : L'on peut
abuser des choses les plus saintes, et les mechans font
du mal avec les meilleurs elemens. But a sacred
thing does not cease to be sacred—a blessing does
not cease to be a blessing—because it may be abused;
nor, for the same reason, and in the same circum-
stances, does truth cease to be estimable. Let us
punish or despise the individual who prostitutes re-
ligion, profanes science, and perverts truth ; but let
us not identify the abuser with the abused, the mur-
derer with the murdered, the subject and the object
of an action.
The most extraordinary objection, however, which
has been made to animal magnetism—an objection
which may, perhaps, make a very powerful impres-
sion upon weak and timid minds, otherwise predis-
posed to religious mysticism and superstition—is that
PREFACE.
to which we shall now advert. The objection is of
such a nature, that we fear we shall have some diffi-
culty in discussing it with due decorum and becom-
ing gravity. The efficacy of animal magnetism, it
has been seriously alleged, depends upon the co-ope-
ration of the devil, and the whole of the phenomena
are ascribed to diabolical agency ; and it is a fact
that these views have actually been inculcated and
enforced from the pulpit. That such notions should
be entertained by any individual of common sense
and tolerable education, at this time of day, and in
a civilised country, is truly lamentable. Surely the
schoolmaster must have been, of late, sadly negligent
of his duties, since he has left unexploded such pre-
cious relics of ignorance and barbarism, which are a
perfect disgrace to an enlightened age. What must
be the intellectual condition of the people under the
tuition of such spiritual instructors ? The very mon-
strous absurdity, indeed, exhibited in the face of this
diabolical objection, seems to preclude the possibility
of any serious answer to it. Yet a very serious, a
very eloquent, and a very effective answer has been
given to it by a learned and most intelligent and
])ious clergyman of the Church of England,* which'
we trust, has been extensively perused with due
edification.
* 8ce Mesmerism muJ Hs Opjionents. hy the Rev. GKdRGK Sandby.
PREFACE. XXUl
All the sciences, however, it may be observed,
have, in their turn, been exposed to the same igno-
rant and ridiculous charge ; so that, in this respect,
animal magnetism is far from being singular. Logic,
metaphysics, mathematics, medicine, &c., have all
been stigmatised and reprobated, seriatim, as inven-
tions of the devil ; and those ingenious persons who
dared to cultivate these studies, in less enlightened
times, have laboured under the grave and shocking
imputation of addicting themselves to magic, and of
establishing an unhallowed intercourse with Satan.
Sir John Leslie observes, in his treatise on Ae-
ronautics, that " the arch-fiend himself was, at no
very distant period, believed to have the especial
control of the air, and to career in the whirlwind
and impel the howling tempest. Those wretched
creatures whom the unfeeling credulity of our an-
cestors, particularly during the prevalence of religi-
ous fanaticism, stigmatised and murdered under the
denomination of witches, were supposed to work all
their enchantments, to change their shapes at will, and
to transport themselves through the air with the swift-
ness of thought, by a power immediately derived
from their infernal master. At a period somewhat
earlier, every person in possession of superior talents
and acquirements was believed to deal in magic, and
PREFACE.
to perform his feats of skill chiefly through the se-
cret aid granted him by the prince of darkness. In
spite of the incurable perverseness of his conduct, it
must be confessed that the devil has always had the
credit of retaining some little inclination to assist the
efforts of genius."
Medicine has always been, in a peculiar manner,
subjected to the stigma of being conversant with un-
hallowed practices. The primitive heathen ^scu-
lapii are said to have been taught their medical
spells, incantations, &c. by Beelzebub himself, and
from them the Papists are supposed to have learnt
to cure diseases, and drive away evil spirits, by
words, spells, and exorcisms. Matthiolus reports
that he knew a man who could heal persons bitten
by deadly serpents, by means of certain charms, even
without seeing the patients; and Fermlius tells us
that he has seen fevers cured by merely muttering
words, without the use of any natural means. Pa-
gans and Papists have also professed to cure diseases
by reciting certain rhythmical formula?. In this
way, the latter are said to have freed persons from
epilepsy, repeating the names of the three kings of
Colon. Hence the celebrated verses
:
Hcec tria qui secwn portabit nomina Regum
Solvitur a mwho Christi pietate caduco.
PREFACE. XXV
VoETius in his dissertation de Exorcismo de-
clares that the exorcizations of the Papists are as
like those of the heathen, as milk is like milk, or as
one egg is like another. In all of these practices,
the philosophical observer may recognise some im-
perfect knovpledge of the magnetic action, while the
fanatic sees nothing but the direct interference of
the Deity, or the immediate influence of satanic
agency.
But in the present state of science and general
education, why should We persist in attributing these
alleged cures to the direct and immediate agency
of God or of the devil, instead of referring them, as
v/ould be more rational, to some one or other of
those natural principles which an almighty and be-
neficent Providence has established throughout the
works of his hand? Our religion teaches us, in-
deed, that God is the author of every good, and of
every perfect gift ; and we hold accordingly, that
every thing that contributes to the health, and com-
fort, and happiness of his creatures must necessarily
be the gift of God. In ascribing the salutary effects
of animal magnetism to satanic agency, do we not
entirely change the character of that arch-enemy of
mankind, and belie the sacred scriptures, by converting
the prince of darkness, and the author of all sin and
xxvi
PREFACE.
evil, mto an angel of light, and a liberal benefactor
to the human race; and thus attempt to introduce
a new and most abominable neological worship-a
pure and perfect system of diabolism ? The princi-
pal, nay, the sole object of the magnetic treatment
IS to cure the sick ; and if the devil assists us in these
charitable and beneficent exertions, surely he has
been most egregiously calumniated, and is totally
undeserving of that universal reprobation which has
been so unsparingly heaped upon him by all pious
Christians. God afHicts us with diseases, and the
devil cures them. Such is the wretched, the blas-
phemous opinion entertained by the fanatical oppo-
nents of animal magnetism ! Those persons, there-
fore, who are disposed to adopt this ignorant, un-
charitable, and impious notion of the .presence of
diabolic agency in the magnetic treatment and phe-
nomena, would probably agree with St Chrysostom
in thinking that " it were better for a man to remain
sick all his days, yea, he had better die, than go to
the devil for health." Why do not our Christian
instructors endeavour to enlighten their people, by
teaching them the principles of pure religion, in-
stead of filling their minds with all manner of base
and barbarous superstition ? No two things are
more incompatible with each other than superstition
PREFACE. XXVU
and religion ; and if the former is still to be incul-
cated,, for what good reason have we abandoned
heathenism ?
And, after all, why should the magnetic manipu-
lations be thought to be more under the influence
of the devil, than the administration of medicinal
drugs? In our humble opinion—and in this, we
believe, we are by no means singular—there is a
vast deal more of the devil in opium, arsenic, fox-
glove, mercury, prussic acid, &c. than in animal
magnetism ; and we know as much of the modus
operandi in the one case, as in the other. But this
is a mere matter of opinion —perhaps of taste ; and
every doctor, cure in what way he will, provided he
be a man of science and skill, is equally under the
influence of Satan, and is equally liable to the im-
putation of practising magic. The dunce, alone, is
never suspected of having any thing of the devil in
him.
But the devil, it may be farther observed—al-
though considered by the wft^-a-fanatics to be the
great patron-saint of genius, and the author of every
useful invention which the vulgar cannot compre-
hend, has at all times been, perhaps still more na-
turally, regarded as the wicked contriver of all im-
probable, and even, humanly speaking, impossible
^^"^^^^
PREFACE.
mischief. This is certainly much more character^
istic of the vocation of the personage in question, al-
though, perhaps, not much more reasonable. For,
even,
" Bad as he is, the DeviJ may be abused,
Be falsely charged, and causelessly accused."
For example :
A farmer's sow, who had an unfor-
tunate custom of eating her pigs, and snatching up
a chicken when it came in her way, fell under a
bad character, and was charged with all the mis-
chief done in the neighbourhood. If an ox or a
cow were amissing, the sow had eat them up ; if a
rick was blown down, the sow had overturned it.
She was charged with having eaten up a carrier and
his horse at one meal. To say that these things
were improbable—that they were impossible—went
for nothing with great numbers : It was but suppos-
ing that the devil had got into the poor sow, and
every thing went down.
" Give a dog an ill name, and hang liim."
There are some persons, it would seem—we trust
not many—who proceed upon the same principle in
forming theii- opinions in regard to animal magne-
tism ; and it was justly said by Van Helmont, two
hundred years ago,
—
Magnetismus, quia passim vi-
PREFACE. Xxix
get, praeter nomen nil novi continet, nec paradoxus,
nisi iis qui cuncta derident, et in Satance dominium
ablegant qucBcunque non intelligunt. With the same
justice he adds, Profecto qucErenti derisori sapientiam
ea non extai.
We owe an apology, perhaps, to the really in-
telligent portion of our readers, for having occu-
pied so much time in exposing such a ridiculous
objection.
But it seems that a considerable number of the
invetei-ate opponents of animal magnetism—especi-
ally of those belonging to the medical profession
—
have now, at length, become convinced by the over-
whelming mass of facts occurring every where around
them, that there is really something in it. In short,
they find that they can no longer safely close their eyes
and go to sleep, while their neighbours are all wide
awake, up and doing, everywhere around them.
Being still haunted, however, by their phantom-ideas
of imaginary danger, they profess much alarm, and
seem to recommend a concealment of the facts—
a
burking of the whole affair. Concealment I To
this, they may depend upon it, the animal magnet-
ists, who have obtained an ineradicable conviction of
the truth, and the value, and the vast importance of
their science, will never consent. Truth must not be
^'^
PREFACE.
sacrificed to the misconceptions of misjudging men.
There must be no cowardly compromise. Truth, in-
deed, when once discovered and made known, will
sooner or later make its way, and maintain its proper
position. Errors and abuses will, in due time, be
corrected by the general diffusion of sound know-
ledge. At all events, concealment—even if desirable
—is now too late—it is impracticable—impossible.
Why, almost every mechanic and ploughman al-
most every man, woman, and child, in the country
knows " all about" animal magnetism. Many indi-
viduals, indeed, have already attempted to get rid
of this now popular science by shutting their eyes
to the facts—by denying their reality—by depreciat-
ing them—by reasoning them away—by endeavour-
ing to place them out of sight. Now, all this is vain,
foolish, and absurd. Facts never can be annihilated
by such artifices, however ingenious. Once upon a
time, the plague was raging in the neighbourhood of
Zurich. The council assembled for the purpose of
concerting preventive measures against the conta-
gion. It was, at length, determined by a majority
that all the gates of the town should be immediately
shut. One of the councillors, however, rose up and
stated that he had some pigeons which he requested
might be permitted to come in before the gates were
PREFACE XXxi
closed. " Fool," exclaimed a brother councillor,
" cannot they fly over the gates ?"—" True," replied
the former, " and so may the plague." Fiat appli-
catio.
As the subject, therefore, cannot now be evaded
even if that were considered desirable, it becomes
the duty of all those who enjoy the best opportuni-
ties for investigation to endeavour to ascertain the
nature and value of the facts, in the true spirit of
philosophical candour and impartiality ; and to apply
the knowledge they may obtain in a manner the most
conducive to the interests of science and of society. It
is really painful, however, to witness the disinge-
nuousness and sophistry with which medical men, in
particular, attempt to deceive themselves and the
public in regard to every thing that relates to this
subject. Still more painful is it to observe how men,
with the slightest spark of humane philosophy in
their bosoms—members, too, of what is denominated
a liberal profession—how such men should suffer
themselves to become violent partizans in matters of
mere science, and condescend to the meanest arti-
fices and subterfuges, even to unseemly personalities,
in order, if possible, to injure the character and weak-
en the evidence of all those individuals who have
given their honest testimony in favour of the mao-«
^'^''^^
PREFACE.
netic facts. Such conduct is calculated to bring
contempt and ruin on the best cause—in a doubtfd
cause, it is suspicious—in a bad cause, it is mere despe-
ration—in matters of science, it is foolish, and futile
in the end. The treatment which that most intelli-
gent and estimable lady, IVUss Martineau, has late-
ly received from the medical opponents of mesmer-
ism—we do not hesitate to say it—is disgraceful to
the profession, and must be reprobated, we have no
doubt, by all the more respectable members of the
body. Miss Martineau—a lady of gi-eat literary
celebrity—had a perfect right to tell her interesting
story—to communicate the result of her accidental
experience, with the view of promoting the cause of
truth and of useful science. Her statement possess-
ed great value ;
and, coming from such a quarter,
it ought to have been received with attention and
gratitude—at least, with civility. This last, indeed
—if not more—was unquestionably due to the sex
of the author, to her acknowledged talents and
powers of observation. What happened ? Why, the
lady was immediately pounced upon and assailed,
not in the most courteous manner, by individuals
who, although professing to know all about it,"
have proved themselves to be, in reality, supei-lative-
ly ignorant of the best established principles both of
PREFACE. XXXlli
politeness and of science. A lady cannot be sup-
posed to feel any violent inclination to engage in an
unseemly contest carried on by the parties endea-
vouring to throw dirt in each other's faces. But in
a collision of intellect and reasoning, we are satisfied
that Miss Martineau's little finger could easily
crush all her puny male opponents into powder.
We have no desire to enter into the particulars of
this paltry and discreditable controversy upon the
present occasion ; but after deliberately perusing all
that has been written on the subject, our opinion is
decidedly in favour of the lady, and against her male
opponents. The manifestly partial conduct of these
gentlemen, and, above all, their tampering with, and
concussing of the witnesses, afford sufficient grounds
for, at once, thi'usting them out of court.
After nearly thirty years of study, research, and
reflection, we find that we can corroborate almost
every statement made by Miss Martineau by the
most ample and incontrovertible evidence. Having
been, it is believed, the original cause of the mag-
netic controversy, in this country, by the publication
of Isis Revelata, at a time when the subject was al-
most unknown amongst us ; and being still prepared
to " champion" the good cause " to the very utter-
ance ;
"
—we hereby lay ourselves completely open
^''XIV PREFACE.
to the assaults of the best and bravest of the sceptical
battalion, and place implicit confidence in the invin-
cible armour of truth.
Me—me—in me ccmveHitefeirmn.
If medical men, however, will obstinately persist in
their unreasonable scepticism and abuse, the decision
of this question must be left to an intelligent and im-
partial public ; and, for our own part, we feel no ap-
prehension in regard to the terms of the ultimate
award. Magna est Veritas, et prcevalebit.
The reader vsdll perceive that our object, in the
present publication, is to clear a way, if possible
through those extraordinary phenomena, which have
hitherto been designated, by the sceptics, as the Bdar-
vels of Magnetism. If we have been in any degree
successful in our efforts, it must then, we should think,
become apparent to the philosopher, that the whole
matter now resolves into a question of evidence
—
of evidence collected from a large field of observa-
tion ; and that we must first obtain possession of a
sufficient number of well-authenticated facts, as the
foundation of our reasonings, before we can become
capable of forming any general theory applicable to
the whole of the phenomena.
The fact of vision without the use of the eyes, and
its scientific explanation, seems to present us with
PREFACE. XXXV
the master-key to a rational interpretation of all the
more extraordinary and obscure phenomena of Ani-
mal Magnetism ; and this explanation, it is thought,
may be found in a recognition of the diflFerent func-
tions of the cerebral and the ganglionic portions of
the nervous system—and the existence of polar re^
lations subsisting between the various parts of the
animal economy—and, also, in the dissimilar mani-
festations resulting from these causes ;
comprehend-
ing the distinctive characteristics of day-life and night-
life—sleeping and waking.
April 1845.
SOMNAMBULISM.
INTRODUCTION. •,';]
" It is the soul that sees ; the outward eyes
Present the object, but the mind descries."
Byron.
Somnambulism, as a fact, has been observed from
the earliest ages ; and this extraordinary affection, with
its concomitant phenomena, has been noticed, and par-
tially described, by Hippocrates, Plato, Aristotle,
Galen, Aret^us, and by other ancient physicians and
philosophers. It constitutes a prominent article in the
philosophical and theological systems of the ancient Hin-
doos and Persians ; and recent travellers in Egypt have
discovered indubitable traces of its artificial production
among the ancient inhabitants of that country. Indeed,
Jamblichus, in his treatise De Mysteviis Egyptiorum,
has given a description of the affection nearly in the same
terms as might be used by any magnetist of the present
day. " On the approach of such a spirit of prophecy
during sleep," says he, " the head begins to sink, and the
eyes involuntarily close : It is, as it were, a middle state
between sleeping and waking. In ordinary dreaming, we
are fast and perfectly asleep ; we cannot precisely dis-
tinguish our perceptions. But when our dreams are from
God, we are not asleep—we exactly recognise all objects,
A
2 INTRODUCTION.
and sometimes even more distinctly than when awake.
And in this species of dreams prophecy has its founda-
tion." A great many similar descriptions might be ga-
thered from ancient and more modern authors, but we
would rather avoid any useless display of learning.
The manifestations of this peculiar affection, however,
seem to have always appeared so anomalous and incom-
prehensible, as to have excited I'eligious veneration and
awe, rather than to have been considered as a proper
subject for philosophical contemplation. These manifes-
tations, therefore, came to be generally regarded as the
immediate consequence of Divine appointment, or as the
eifects of diabolical agency, according to the peculiar cha-
racter which the affection might happen to assume, or the
particular views entertained by the different observers.
Similar notions, upon this subject, appear to have been
almost universally entertained during the dark ages of
Europe ; and even long after science had begun to sub-
ject the actual phenomena of nature to the scrutiny of a
more strict and searching analysis, somnambulism still
continued to constitute a perplexing puzzle for the philo-
sopher and the physician. A variety of instances of the
affection, indeed, had been occasionally observed ; but the
explanation of the phenomena was long held to be a sub-
ject far too sacred for profane philosophical speculation ;
and it was, accordingly, consigned almost entirely to the
province of the theologian. Ignorant and crafty men
availed themselves of these facts and dispositions for the
purpose of extending their influence by enlarging the
boundaries of superstition and delusion. And so deeply
rooted were these erroneous impressions in the minds of
mankind, that even the attempts which have been made,
in recent and more enlightened times, to extirpate these
unphilosophical and pernicious notions, by explaming the
natural causes of the phenomena in question, have been
viewed by many as an impertinent and unhallowed inroad
upon the sacred territory of the Divine, or as an iniqui-
tous design to extend and perpetuate the empire of Satan.
With an utter misconception—in many instances, a wilful
INTRODUCTION. 3
misrepresentation—of the real object and tendency of
their labours, the honest disciples of Animal Magnetism
have been held up and exposed to an ignorant public, as
the professed patrons of Magic, Sorcery, Witchcraft,
and every species of Diabolism.
Mesmer—the modern discoverer of the Zoo-mag-
netic agency—was a physician ; and it was perfectly na-
tural that he should have endeavoured to apply the im-
portant principle he had discovered chiefly to the pur-
poses of his own profession. In following this course,
however, it is unfortunate,—although, perhaps, by no
means very wonderful in the circumstances of the case,
that he should have excited a spirit of determined and
invincible hostility in the bosoms of his professional
brethren, which has proved the most formidable obstacle
to the advancement of the knowledge of Animal Mag-
netism even to our own times. It was not merely the
cause of general science which v/as here considered to be
at stake ; the particular interests of a numerous, an in-
fluential, a powerful, and a prejudiced incorporation ap-
peared to be more immediately compromised ;
nay, there
seemed to be placed in jeopardy the very existence of a
profession, which had almost become proverbial for its
jealousy of innovation, and for the inveterate opposi-
tion it had constantly presented to all rational improve-
ment.
In such circumstances, the discovery of Mesmer could
not be expected to make any very rapid progress towards
general recognition ; although enough occurred to excite
attention, and to provoke hostility. The unassisted ef-
forts of the medical profession, however, strenuously as
they, unquestionably, were exerted, appear to have been
considered insufficient to strangle the infant science at its
birth. The highest power of the State, therefore, was
invoked to aid the faculty in their attempts to crush the
obnoxious intruder ; and, as in the parallel instance of
(tAlileo and his cosmological system, an authoritative
sentence was, at length, obtained, pronouncing the doc-
trine of Animal Magnetism to be absurd in itself, philo-
4 INTRODUCTION.
sophically andpracticallyfalse, andformally heretical
;
and, moreover, subversive of religion and morals.*
This formidable anathema seems to have attained its
object for the time ; the demands of orthodoxy were sa-
tisfied, and the victory of legitimacy appeared to be com-
plete. But the triumph was of short duration. Such
is the perverse and refractory nature—such the uncon-
querable spirit of truth, that it spurns the fetters of au-
thority ; and such its inherent elasticity and force, that
it ultimately succeeds in shaking off for ever those igno-
minious shackles by which its enemies attempt to hold it
in thi-aldom, and prevent its expansion. The modern
discoverer of Animal Magnetism, it is tme, retired in
disgust from the theati'e of his active exertions, after his
original ardour had been cooled by age and disappoint-
ment ; but his faithful disciples held fast the doctrine he
had taught them, pi-opagated the theory and extended the
practice of Animal Magnetism, until they, at length, ren-
dered it doubtful whether the ancient empire of medicine
could be longer maintained in its integrity. The science
has long been cultivated, with great zeal and success,
throughout the whole of continental Europe ; it has even
been wafted across the Atlantic Ocean, and has found a
hospitable reception amongst our American brethren,
England, although tardy and reluctant, has, at length,
been compelled to enter into a serious investigation of the
subject ;
and, of late, immense progress has been made,
by all ranks, -in the study and consequent knowledge of
the facts. The attention of our countrymen, however,
has hitherto been almost exclusively directed to the prac-
tical utility, or profitable application, of the discovery, and
they seem little disposed to enter into the general philoso-
phical views to which the phenomena have a tendency to
conduct us. The causes of this peculiarity are pretty
obvious. England, in the opinion of her neighbours, has
almost entirely fallen from that prominent station which
she formerly occupied in the cultivation of moral and m-
* For an analysis of the First Report of the French Acadenii-
Ciaus, see his Ikvdata, and the doeumcuts therein referred to.
tNtRODUCTION. 5
tellectual philosophy ; and all her mental activity has be-
come completely absorbed in the eager pursuit of more
material interests,—of more lucrative, perhaps, but more
temporary and less dignified objects. We have become
a nation almost entirely composed of politicians, of mer-
chants, manufacturers, mechanics, and shopkeepers. We
are rapidly losing all that intellectual refinement which
ought to distinguish the civilised man, and gradually
sinking into the mire of merely sensual gratifications.
Physical and mechanical science are almost alone thought
worthy of cultivation.* The analysis of a mineral, the
* The following opinion given of us and our pursuits by a late in-
genious foreign traveller, although somewhat dilated into caricature,
contains some truth, and is, at least, amusing. He describes us as
" a people who can only contrive to get rid of their mm« by plung-
ing into the vortex of political and mercantile activity. The per-
fection of the machines," says he, " "which are here placed every-
where in busthng operation, and perform so many of the functions
of lurnian beings, made a disagreeable impression ujjon me. This
artificial bustle of wheels, bars, cylinders, pistons, thousands of little
blocks, pegs, teeth, &c., which move almost with passion, filled me
with loathing. The determinate, the exact, the measured, and the
precise, in the life of the Enghsh people, tormented me no less ;
for,
as in England, the machines appear to us like men, so do the men
there appear to us like machines. Wood, iron, and brass seem to
have there usurped the functions of living man, and to have abso-
lutely become insane from a superabundance of the spiritual prin-
ciple ;
whereas, the spiritless man, like an empty and inanimate
spectre, performs his usual routine of occupations after the manner
of a machine ; and at the exact predetermined minute, he eats his
beef-steak, makes a speech in Parliament, steps into a stage-coach
or railway-train, goes to bed, or hangs himself."
This picture may be rather overcharged ; but it is a melancholy
truth, that, while, with u,^ almost no studies are now cherished or
appreciated, excepting such as have an immediate relation to worldly
objects, are comparatively trivial in themselves, or merely subserve
the gratification of an idle curiosity,—while we, in short, are amus-
ing ourselves by playing at the childish game of philosophers, with-
out apparently knowing what philosophy is ; our neighbours and
rivals, with all the freshness, and agility, and strength of mature
manhood, are rapidly going a-head of us in the prosecution of all
those nobler studies which tend to dignify human nature, to elevate
the intellectual and moral character of the species, to confer stabi-
lity upon civil institutions, and to promote and perpetuate the solid
glory of nations.
(5 INTRODUCTION.
physiology of a plant, the anatomy of an insect, excite
infinitely more interest amongst us, than the most curious
and valuable phenomena of human nature. No wonder
that, amidst the proscription of all higher intellect, some
of our most popular physiologists have been induced to
deny the very existence of a soul or mind. In such a
state of things, indeed, the study of mental physiology,
or psychology, is not likely to be prosecuted with much
zeal or success.*
^ We have, indeed, abundance of Royal Societies, and Royal
Colleges, and Associations for the Advancement of Science. But
wliat are the pursuits with which they are occupied ? and what are
tlie subjects which they decHne to investigate ? Look to what oc-
curred not long ago in Manchester. " When the British Association,
in one of its erratic flights, was preparing to visit that city, and by
aid of railway excursions in the morning, and concerts and conver-
saziones in the evening, ' cram' its money-making population with
the arcana of science, Mr Braid, a sm-geon of that place, who had
long devoted his attention to Mesmerism, oifered a paper on the
subject to the medical section, and offered '
to prodtice as many par
tknts as possible, in proof of the curative agency of his particular
system: He thought that ' gentlemen of scientific attamments might
thus have an opportunity of investigating the subject, unbiassed by
local or personal prejucUce.' He himself ' hoped to leai-n something
from others, on points which were mysterious to him, as to the cause
of the phenomena.' And when we know the character of some of his
alleged cures—when we learn that many successful cures in paralysis,
in tfc-doloureux, and in rheumatism, and of improvement m sight,
were amongst them—the public might naturally conclude that these
swvan^ would gladly accept the oflrer, and bring then: scientific know-
ledge to bear upon the subject. Here was a concentration of talent
and philosophy met together ; and now was a golden time for going
into the question, and of putting down for ever a ridiculous preten-
sion, or of satisfying their own minds as to the truth of the prac^tice.
But no • '
The committee of the medical section declmed entertain-
ing the subject.' As the professor at Padua refused to looJc through
ollileo's telescope at the moon ; so these gentlemen at Manchester
were unwilling to look at Mr Braid's patients, for reasons that can
only be kno^v^ to themselves. Either they had some secret mis-
givings, some fears touching their ovvn '='>"\«^«^°"',^°";^.
l^no
having to unlearn nmch of their former acqmrements or their tin e,
neraps at this important juncture, was not qmte at their o^^ni dis.
?osJl? As a conJttee of'the British A^ociatiou for the Advaiice.
fnent of Science could scarcely be afraid ot
'J^'^f
'.'^g^^^* '"^^^^^^
see how the matter stood with them, m respect to time. On turnmg,
INTRODUCTION. 7
It is, unquestionably, a strange and unaxjcountable
thing, that, in this pretended " age of intellect"—and
then, to a record of their proceedings, we find, that the ' section was
thinly attended,'—that several tedious papers were read, most of
which could have been studied more profitably at home,—and that,
out of the six days on which the sections met, there were two on
which no business at all was transacted before the one for medicine,
some part of which time might at least have been surrendered to Mr
Braid and his experiments, even if the rules of the Society forbade
a more formal lectm-e. These '
learned Theljans' had flitted from
their homes, and travelled many a long and weary mile, and what
was their object? Was it not tlie detection of error, the discovery
of truth, and the good of human kind ? and might not Mesmerism,
or Neurypnology, fall under one of these classes ? Oh ! let us not
be too severely critical : The visit to Manchester was not wholly
without fruit. While one party was listening to a learned treatise
on the '
Palpi of Spiders,'' by which the arachnologist ' would be pre-
vented from falling into the too common error of mistaking young
spiders for old ones,'' another section was instructed by 'certain mi-
croscopic researches in fibre,''—and on the '
therapeutic application of
air-tight fabrics.'—Released from these arduous duties, and this
strain on their cerebral functions, our professors could only find re-
pose by a promenade through the adjoining gardens ; here where
Flora and Pomona vied with their most tempting gifts, and the eyes
of beauty smiled reward on the learned labom-s of the lecturer, whp
could expect even an anchorite to tear himself away, and find lei-
sure for Mesmerism with all its cures ? And then came the banquet
with its venison and its wines ;
—and then the self-applauding
speeches, where one section bepraised the other ; and then followed
music and the charm of song, till at length, wearied out with this
train of occupations, ' Section E.' could only recline their heads upon
the pillow, with the self-satisfied assiu-ance that they had not, like
Titus, lost a day !—To be serious—there is something melancholy
in the state of mind here exhibited. These papers have their uses,
and are valuable. But after all, '
the proper study of mankind is
man ;'
—the palpi of spiders are not so interesting as the nervous
system of a patient ; and when a subject hke Mesmerism professes
to mitigate the maddening throes of pain—to give relief to thou-
sands—and to effect a cure, where a cure had been pronounced im-
practicable, to see men of education, like those at Manchester, pass
over to the other side, ivith offended dignity, rather than be specta-
tors of the fact, is a scene both painful and humiliating. The ques-
tion ran counter to all their previous views,—and so with sullen si-
lence they declined to witness an art which promises to multiply
their remedial resources to an extent, at this moment beyond calcu-
lation."-See Mesmerism md its Opponents, By the Rev. George
SANnBV, Junior.
8 INTRODUCTION.
more especially in our own country—men will voluntarily
subject themselves to the severest labours and privations,
in order to advance our knowledge of external nature,
even in the most minute, and apparently trivial particu-
lars : They will traverse the tempestuous ocean ;
pene-
trate almost impervious forests ; ascend the loftiest moun-
tains ; descend into the bowels of the earth ; with un-
wearied zeal, and inexhaustible ingenuity invent instru-
ments for exploring the immeasurable heavens
—
{ccelum
ipsiim petimus stultitici) ;
—yet will they start in alarm, as
if frightened for their own shadow, at the mere proposal
to investigate a much nearer, and far more important and
more interesting object —the wonderful microcosm of
man—with the view of ascertaining the recondite pheno-
mena of their own internal organization, and the laws by
which they are governed ; and of becoming thereby more
intimately acquainted with that peculiar constitution of
the sensitive and percipient being, upon which all our
knowledge of external and internal nature must ultimately
depend. In our own country, where, as has been re-
marked, the disposition in question principally prevails,
this aversion from psychological studies may, no doubt,
have been produced by the paramount importance which
has long been assigned to physical and mechanical philo-
sophy ; to the absorbing pursuit of wealth through the
means of manufacturing machinery and mercantile ad-
venture ;
and, perhaps, in some degree, to a most mis-
taken notion that the philosophy of Bacon is hostile to
the cultivation of anthropological and mental science.
Nay, so far has this prejudice been carried, that all psy-
chlogical inquiry is frequently reprobated as mere mysti-
cism ; while the veriest tyro in physical science, who has
been taught to perform the most simple experiment in
chemistry, or to carve the most tritling article on the turn-
ing-lathe, does not hesitate to sneer at the idea of any
higher philosophy. But the notion referred to, in regard
Such is the present state of science in the land of Bacon,
Newton, of Locke, of Behkelev, of Stewaut, and of Brown.
INTRODUCTION. 9
to the tendency of Lord Bacon's principles, is thoroughly
erroneous. It is perfectly obvious to those who have
really studied the writings of that eminent authority, that
his Lordship reprobated merely those logical and meta-
physical subtilties introduced by the schoolmen, which
only tend to confuse and perplex our notions of things,
and never can contribute to the solid impi-ovement of the
mind, or to the permanent advancement of our real know-
ledare of nature. The inductive method recommended
by his Lordship—commencing with the observation, ve-
rification, and accumulation of facts, and from thence
ascending cautiously to the discovery of general laws—
is equally applicable, when properly pursued, to mental,
as to physical science. Anthropology and psychology
must have their true foundation in an enlarged physiology.
Without a profound and intimate acquaintance with physi-
ological facts, and the laws by which they are regulated,
we shall never attain to an adequate knowledge of our own
nature. But the psychological portion of physiology has
been hitherto almost totally neglected in this country ;
and even the facts upon which it is founded, are generally
regarded with listless apathy, if not with absolute and in-
expugnable scepticism and prejudice. Yet a philosophi-
cal investigation of these facts may be productive of the
most important acquisitions to our knowledge of human
nature.
For example : History abounds in instances of indivi-
duals who have manifested, upon various occasions, a pe-
culiar knowledge of present, although distant occurrences
—present in time, but distant in space—and also a presen-
timent of future events, which have been subsequently
verified, to the astonishment of their friends, and of all
those who happened to be cognizant of the circumstances.
This fact cannot reasonably be denied ; for it is confirmed
by the evidence of all ages ; whatever difficulty may ex-
ist in attempting to account for it. In rude times, these
phenomena have been generally ascribed to some miracu-
lous celestial revelations, occurring during a sleep, or some
10 INTRODUCTION.
analogous state. Thus, it has been maintained, in the
language of the poet, that
" Divinity hath oftentimes descended
Upon our shimbers, and the blessed troops
Have, in the cakn and quiet of the soul,
Conversed with us."
The ancient physicians, too, gave the epithet divine,
apparently to those states in which such phenomena were
manifested.
Now, our common-sense, physical and mechanical phi-
losophers, with whom it is a settled principle to believe
nothing but what is visible and palpable, and familiar to
the most ordinary observation, have almost unanimously
agreed to banish all narratives of such supersensible and
apparently inexplicable manifestations into the farthest
realms of falsehood, imagination, and delusion. Some,
indeed, have resolved the whole matter into mere phan-
tasmata, or optical illusions. Many weak and supersti-
tious persons, who are otherwise disposed to give credence
to the facts, contemplate these phenomena with fear and
abhorrence, as implying, in their estimation, an intimate
converse with Satan, and the practice of diabolical arts.
By such persons, the somnambulistic affections are gene-
rally ascribed to demoniacal possession, which must be
abated by the religious discipline of exorcism. Hence,
too, the belief, once so prevalent, in sorcery and witch-
craft—the ecstatics of the Roman Catholic Church—the
spiritual conversions of the Protestant sectaries, &c.
But may it not be a reasonable question, whether there
are not certain physiological principles upon which all
such phenomena may be philosophically explained, with-
out the necessity of a general profession of scepticism, or
of having constant recourse to the gordian knot-cutting
hypothesis of supernatural agency !
Nec Deus intersit, nisi dignus vindice nodus.
Philosophy occasionally makes sad havoc among the phe-
nomena which are usually ascribed to imaginative causes.
Are we already suificiently instructed in the nature and
INTRODUCTION. 11
physiological principles of sleep itself, and of its analogous
affections and their various graduations ? We think not.
Several sages of ancient and modern times, indeed,
have been led to take a different, and, as it appears to us,
a more rational and correct view of this matter, than that
which has been adopted by the vulgar and uninquiriug,
by ascribing the occurrences in question to a peculiar and
abnormal condition of the animal organism—to a specific
and appropriate faculty of the human soul, when left free
to exercise its own independent energies, during the tem-
porary abeyance of the ordinary corporeal powers. The
reality of this last view, indeed, which had been previ-
ously advanced as a mere rational hypothesis, has been
subsequently confirmed, and now abundantly demonstrat-
ed, by the important discoveries of Animal Magnetism
—
discoveries which have enabled us to correct many pre-
\'ious errors, and shed a flood of new light upon psycholo-
gical science. It has now been rendered clear by the
most ample and incontrovertible evidence that there ex-
ists in mankind a middle or intermediate state, between
the noraial exercise of the corporeal functions and the
pure manifestations of spiritual being, in which the phe-
nomena which have produced so much scepticism on the
one hand, and so much mystical speculation on the other,
are ocfcasionally developed. It has been proved that this
abnormal state of the organism, in which the spiritual fa-
culties are more conspicuously manifested than in the or-
dinary state, sometimes occurs, as it were spontaneously
—probably the offspring of some pecuUar idiosyncrasy ;
—sometimes in consequence of a morbid affection of some
portion of the system ; and that it can be produced, in
many instances, by artificial means. It has been shown,
moreover, that this constitutional affection may exist in a
greater or less degree of purity and intensity, in propor-
tion to the more or less quiescent state of the whole sen-
sitive apparatus of the corporeal organism ; and that it is
capable of being modified by skilful and judicious ma-
nagement. Many individuals—who by some have been
thought to be Divinely inspired, or demoniacally possessed ;
12 INTRODUCTION.
and by others have been deemed mere insane mj-stics and
visionaries^—appear, in reahty, to have constitutionally la-
boured under this affection. Such were Joan of Arc,
Jacob Behmen, Emanuel Schwedenborg, Mad.
BouRiGNON, and a great many other prophets and reli-
gious enthusiasts ; and the legends of the Roman Catho-
lic saints, as well as of the Protestant converts and mar-
tyrs, abound in instances of a similar nature. By some
persons this constitutional affection has been considered
as a disease : others have regarded it, not exactly as in
itself an actually morbid, but merely as a temporary ab-
normal state of the organism, which may be symptoma-
tic of some other diseased action. It is very frequently
induced by a habit of profound abstraction, or by exces-
sive religious devotion. Physicians, especially in modern
times, appear to have paid little attention to this remark-
able state, and either attempt to explain the phenomena
upon erroneous or unsatisfactory principles, or generally
admit, that, to them, it constitutes a perplexing puzzle.
The animal magnetists, who have been led by circum-
stances emerging in the course of their practice to a more
accurate and profound investigation of the whole subject,
have alone, it is thought, succeeded, at length, in explain-
ing the enigma of ages.
Whether, therefore, we consider the doctrine of Ani-
mal Magnetism as calculated to increase our therapeutic
powers, or as constituting a valuable acquisition to our
psychological knowledge, as well as to general philosophy,^
it must always continue to be an important subject of
study, and will be depreciated by none but ignorant and
intractable empirics in medicine and in science. The
facts upon which this doctrine is founded have been long
since fully demonstrated experimentally, to the entire sa-
tisfaction of every candid and inquiring mind ;
and, the
more enlarged our experience in this particular depart-
ment of knowledge, the more firmly must we be convin-
ced, that, independently of the remarkable phenomena pro-
duced, the practical application ofthe treatment must neces-
sarily be attended with inestimable advantages to society.
INTRODUCTION. 13
It will not be denied, indeed, by any one who is con-
versant with the subject, that the discovery of the zoo-
magnetic influence by Mesmer was as much an addi-
tion to our previous knowledge of nature, as the physi-
cal discoveries of Newton, Torricelli, Galvani,
Oersted or Davy. In its results to humanity, it pro-
mises to be of infinitely more importance than any of
those alluded to. Whether the theories by means of
which Mesmer and others attempted to explain the fact
be accounted satisfactory, or not, is a matter altogether
of inferior importance ; the fact itself remains, and stands
quite independent of any theory. The fact, then, being
established, it will be found to present a twofold interest
to the intelligent and rationally inquisitive mind. The
knowledge imparted by this discovery, has been abun-
dantly proved to be a most valuable auxiliary in the
hands of the physician, in as much as it confers upon
him additional means of curing or alleviating many of
those diseases which afflict humanity, and is calculated
to give him a clearer insight into the origin and nature
of disease in general, as well as of the operation of re-
medies. To the philosopher, the fact is invaluable ; as
it greatly extends his previous knowledge of the physio-
logy of man : accounts for many obscure and hitherto
unintelligible psychological influences ; unravels the com-
plicated character of those mixed states of being, in
which the physical and psychical elements co-operate or
alternate ;
and enables him to comprehend the causes of
many curious and interesting phenomena, which were for-
merly deemed mysterious and miraculous, and were fre-
quently employed to perpetuate the empire of superstition
and delusion.
The medical efficacy of Animal Magnetism is a mere
matter of experiment ; and it has been long since suffi
ciently demonstrated, to the satisfaction of all competent
judges, by an extensive practice of the art. Its philosophi-
cal importance has not hitherto attracted much attention
in this country, where a great deal of timidity and reluc-
tance, as already observed, has, for some time, prevailed
14 INTRODUCTION.
in regard to the cultivation of anthropological science,
the study of which—with the exception of some physical
theories of mind—has been almost entirely proscribed.
It is to the phenomena of somnambulism that the atten-
tion of the reader is to be directed in the following pages
—^to the abolition of all external sensibility which occurs
in that affection—and, in particular, to the extraordinary
and much controverted fact of the exercise of vision, in
that state, without the assistance of the usual organs of
sight. But before proceeding to the interesting lectures
of Dr WiENHOLT, the translator begs to be allowed to
make a few preliminary observations on the philosophi-
cal principles applicable to the subject.
When the ascertained phenomena of nature are at va-
riance with the established principles of science, the
source of the contradiction cannot long be doubtful to
the rational and intelligent mind. God made nature
—
man made science. Human reason is falUble ; but na-
ture, under the direction and control of Divine power
and wisdom, cannot err. The prejudices of science, how-
ever, are generally the most obstinate of all, just because
they are conceived to be founded in reason ;
and hence,
even philosophers, who ought to be dispassionate and un-
biassed lovers of truth, are frequently disposed to malve
the most desperate struggles, before they can be brought
to abate their pride, and to admit the reality of a natural
fact, which they have once taught themselves to believe
to be inconsistent with any of their preconceived opinions.
Hence, too, the tardy reception of all new truths, which
cannot be immediately and satisfactorily connected with
our previous acquirements. A certain German professor
obstinately denied the existence of the new metals ( so-
dium and potassiumj discovered by Sir Humphry
Davy, because they did not possess the characteristic
property which he conceived to be essential to all metal-
lic substances
—
viz. gravity.
When an humble individual, in this country, farst an-
nounced the discovery of the curious and apparently ano-
malous fact, that, in certain abnormal states of the or-
INTRODUCTION. 15
ganism
—
e. g. in somnambulism—many persons had been
fomid capable of perceiving external objects, while the
natural organ of vision was proved to be unsusceptible
of the impressions of light, and, consequently, incapable
of exercising its special functions, or of forming an image
of outward things—unbounded were the scepticism and
ridicule with which the information was received by the
learned and the illiterate, by the philosopher and the
clown. The proposition was almost universally declared
to be incredible and absurd—the thing was absolutely im-
possible ;—nay, grave and skilful anatomists—entirely
misapprehending the nature of the problem to be solved,
however,—actually set about demonstrating this impos-
sibility and absurdity from a minute examination of the
structure and conformation of the eye, whose peculiar
functions, they maintained, could not be supplied by any
other corporeal organ. The asserted fact, therefore, along
with all the other phenomena of Animal Magnetism, al-
though supported by the most complete demonstrative
evidence, was thoroughly and contemptuously scouted
and rejected, amidst many benevolent expressions of com-
passion for the unfortunate condition of the credulous
simpletons, mystics or lunatics, who professed their be-
lief of such glaring absurdities. Even to this day, al-
though we have become a little wiser in regard to some
of these matters, the fact in question still continues to be
a prominent subject of jocularity ; and many a jest upon
this fertile theme of merriment is occasionally sported by
the witty and the dull. Here, then, we have a very re-
markable instance of antagonism between unquestionable
observation and preconceived opinion, or, as some think,
common sense. The fact itself has been completely de-
monstrated by the decisive experiments of Petetin and
Renard—itis corroborated by the direct and unequi-
vocal testimony of hundreds of enlightened and most un-
exceptionable witnesses, chiefly eminent medical men, who
observed the phenomenon in a great variety of cases—
and It has been found to occur in almost every instance
ot the more perfect somnambulism, whether natural or
16 INXnODUCTIOX.
artificial, as has been shown in the Appendix to Isis Re-
velata (No. ii.), and in the first number of the Zoo-mag-
netic Journal. In these circumstances, to bring forward
additional facts would probably be a vain, as it unques-
tionably would be a supererogatory labour ; for what, in
the estimation of the contradictors, are all the facts of na-
ture, when placed in opposition to the preconceived opi-
nions of mankind, nay, even to what are denominated the
established principles of science ? Let us, then, ti'y a
little philosophy : and as we conceive our facts to be per-
fectly authentic and incontrovertible, let us see whether
our theoretical views may not, ultimately, be deemed quite
as sound and satisfactory, as those of our merry and wise
opponents.
The whole philosophy of perception is involved in ob-
scurity. Dr Reid—whose writings had, at one time,
fallen a little into disrepute, but whose merits are now^
more justly and more universally appreciated, even upon
the continent, and whose works, we beheve, are recom-
mended by Sir William Hamilton, the distinguished
Pi-ofessor of Logic and Metaphysics in the University of
Edinburgh, as the most appropriate study for the tyro in
mental philosophy—Dr Reid observes, in the first chap-
ter of his Essay on the Organs of Sense, that " the
perception of external objects is one main link of that
mysterious chain, which connects the material w^orld wnth
the intellectual. We shallfind" he adds, " many things
in this operation imaccountuhle ; sufficient to convince
lis that we know but little of our own frame ; and that
a perfect comprehension of our mental powers, and of
the manner of their operation, is beyond the reach of
our understanding."— that, in the opinion of Dr
Reid and his is no contemptible authority—it would
appear that ordinary vision, through the instrumentality
of the eyes, is as much a miracle to the true philosopher,
as the magnetic vision is considered to be by the sceptics
in regard to the phenomena of animal magnetism.
After observing that " we perceive no external objects
but by means of certain bodily organs, which God has
INTRODUCTION. 17
^ven us for that purpose," &c. Dr Reid proceeds :
" All this is so well known from experience, that it needs
no proof ; but it ought to be observed, that we know it
from e.i-perience only. We can give no reason for it,
but that such is the will of our Maker. No man can
shew it to he impossible to the Supreme Being to have
given us the power ofperceiving external objects without
such organs. We have reason to believe, that
WHEN WE PUT OFF THESE BODIES, AND ALL THE OR-
GANS BELONGING TO THEM, OUR PERCEPTIVE POWERS
SHALL RATHER BE IMPROVED, THAN DESTROYED OR
IMPAIRED. We have REASON TO BELIEVE THAT
THE Supreme Being perceives every thing in a
MUCH MORE perfect MANNER THAN WE DO, WITH-
OUT BODILY ORGANS. We HAVE REASON TO BE-
LIEVE, THAT THERE ARE OTHER CREATED BEINGS
ENDOWED WITH POWERS OF PERCEPTION MORE PER-
FECT AND MORE EXTENSIVE THAN OURS, WITHOUT
ANY SUCH ORGANS AS WE FIND NECESSARY."
Now, let us compare these opinions of Dr Reid,
which entirely coincide with our own, with the facts of
animal magnetism, which, as facts derived from expe-
rience, our celebrated Scottish philosopher, with all his
caution, could not rationally have rejected. No person,
so far as we know, denies that, in the ordinary, normal
state of existence, our perceptive powers are exercised
through the instrumentality of certain appropriate organs
of special sense ; or that, by means of these organs, al-
though in a manner to us, ap].arently, altogether incom-
prehensible, the impressions received from without are
conveyed to the mind. All this, as Dr Reid justly ob-
serves, we know from experience, and from experience
only. But, it is presumed, we must all be convinced,
that something more than the artificially constructed
material organ—the eye, for example—is necessary to
accomplish the perceptive process. The mere eye itself,
—were the process to stop here,—could no more com-
municate an image—an idea—to the percipient mind,
than a mirror could be made conscious of the presence
B
18 INTRODUCTION.
of the object reflected in the speculum^ or the trunk of
a tree of the blast which agitates its branches. There
must necessarily be some spiritual, ethereal, or other
medium of communication between the material sensitive
organ and the perceiving mind.
Diderot, the French philosopher, indeed, remarks
upon the impropriety of the expressions
—
the eye sees,
the ear hears, the nose smells, ^'c. These expressions,
however common in vulgar language, are, in fact, quite
unphilosophical. It is not the material organ, but the
internal sense, which sees, hears, and smells. The or-
gan, indeed, receives an impression of one kind or ano-
ther ; but how this impression should communicate a
particular sensation, and this sensation produce a peculiai*
perception of an external object in the mind, constitutes
the most obscure, the most mysterious, and the most
perplexing circumstance in the whole philosophy^ of the
perceptive process ;
—a problem, at all events, which, we
conceive, is utterly incapable of being solved by any of
the coarse theories of materialism. The materiaUst, in-
deed, merely cuts the Gordian knot, which he cannot
untie. In order to obviate this difficulty, some late con-
tmental philosophers have had recourse to the hypothesis
of an organic ether, as the intermediate agent between
the objects, the organs, and the internal sense ;
and al-
though a strict and perfectly satisfactory demonstration
of the actual existence of this ether may not be easdy
obtained ;
yet there are certain facts, recently elicited,
which seem to favour the assumption ;
and, at all events,
some such hypothesis appears to be absolutely necessary,
in order to enable us to explain the phenomena.
But be this as it may—Dr Reid, as has been seen,
acknowledges that the organs of external sense cannot be
considered as indispensable to perception-that the mind
may be made to perceive by other means ;
nay, he ad-
mits that we have reason to believe that, vrhen these or-
gans cease to exercise their functions, " our perceptive
powers shall rather be in^proved than destroyed or im-
paired
"
Now, these are precisely the opinions which are
IN'TUODUCTION'. 19
held by the animal magnetists. They do not assert
—
although this seems to be implied in the objection of some
of the sceptics—that, in the ordinary state of human ex-
istence, our powers of perception are exercised in any
other than the usual way ; but what they do maintain is
this—and here they are supported by experience—that
there are certain abnormal states of the organism—called
by the various names of Coma-vigil, Somno-vigilia,
Sleep-ioaking, or, more commonly, Somnambulism ov
Ecstacy—in which the activity of the special sensitive
organs is frequently suspended—they " cease to perform
their functions ;" the act of perception, when it does oc-
cur, is accomplished by other means, in an extraordinary
manner, and, apparently, without any assistance from
these the usual organs. Both kinds of perception are
known to us only from experience ; —we are unacquainted
with the rationale of either process ; —both are equally
unaccountable —miraculous, if you will. But there is no-
thing in the fact asserted by the animal magnetists which
can, with any propriety, be said to be inconsistent with
the soundest philosophy ; it involves a question of fact
alone, which, like all other facts, is capable of being de-
monstrated by evidence of its reality. The contradictors
appeal to a narrow and partial experience—the assertors
to a more enlarged and liberal observation of nature.
Were any person to assert that light is indispensably
necessary to the exercise of vision, he might be thought
to have merely expressed a trite philosophical truth—
a
truism. Yet it is notorious that there are certain animals
which manifest the faculty of vision perfectly well in the
dark ; some of them, indeed, more exquisitely in dark-
ness than in light. This fact might be illustrated in va-
rious ways ;
but, at present, we shall only refer to the in-
stances of the cat, the owl, the mole, the bat, several
beasts of prey, &c. Light, therefore, is not " indispensa-
bly necessary to the exercise of vision." We may add,
too, that many somnambulists have been known to see in
complete darkness, while their eyes, besides, were proved
to be insensible to the stimulus of light.
30 INTRODUCTION.
There are two circumstances which have tended to pro-
mote scepticism in regard to the reality of this fact of vi-
sion without the use of the eyes, In the first place, the
indisposition of the greater part of mankind to admit any
truth that transcends the limits of the most ordinary ob-
servation—the increduhty of the philosophical vulgar.
Had their mode of reasoning prevailed, the true theory
of the planetary motions, and many other scientific truths,
might have continued in abeyance to the present day.
Had their authority prevailed, " the fourth part of the
earth had been yet unknown, and Hercules' pillars had
still been the world's ne ultra : Seneca's prophecy had
been an unfulfilled prediction, and one moiety of our globe
an empty hemisphere."* The individuals in question do
not know what somnambulism is —they have never ex-
amined, and are consequently ignorant of the phenomena
which it manifests ; and they are unwilling to listen to
the evidence of others in favour of a fact, which they have
once been induced to include in their category of impos-
sibilities.
In the second place, the materialists—whose opinions,
in one form or another, have been, for some time, the
most prevalent among philosophists, in this country—ac-
knowledge no functional manifestation excepting such as
cau be immediately referred to the instrumentality of
some special corporeal organ. According to the doc-
trines taught by the philosophers of this school, mind, per
se, is a complete phantom—a nonentity : man is altoge-
ther a mere machine, and in this, as in all other machines,
every faculty must necessarily have its own distinct spe-
cific and appropriate material apparatus, without which it
would be incapable of manifesting itself. To them, there-
fore, that which is usually denominated 7nental energy
is merely a result of the activity of some particular por-
tion of the corporeal organism.-f But we must avoid en-
* Joseph Gi-anvill. . , . , , ,
t .Cvmuolocjy, or i->hrenolorjy, is the newest form in which the doc-
trines of materialism have been promulgated ;
and it (lifters little, it'
at all, from its predecessors. When the phrenological theory was
3
INTRODUCTION* 21
tering at large into the materialistic controversy upon the
present occasion. It has been already observed that the
first introduced into this country, it was at once perceived by the
most competent judges of the logical tendencies of philosophical
doctrines, that it was a mere re\ival of old and exploded errors, and
that, if accredited, it must ultimately conduct its unwary disciples
to a system of the gi'ossest materialism—we might add, perhaps, the
grossest absurdity. This—the materialism—was but feebly denied
by the phrenological doctors themselves, who either attempted^ to
evade the imputation, or to make it appear that this was, in reality,
a matter of no essential importance. Dr Gall, the modern inven-
tor of the craniological or phrenological hypothesis—for it is by no
means new—was, at least, much more ingenuous and consistent.
He did not pretend to deny, or even to evade the inevitable conse-
quences of the doctrine he taught ;
and, if we are correctly inform-
ed, he lived and died in the uncompromising profession of material-
ism and atheism. His admirers, indeed, eulogise his " philosophical
dignity," his " uncompromising declaration of infidelity." Viewing
phrenology as a system of materialism, we are told, he " pronounced
it to be incompatible with any existing theology whatever." And
so it unquestionably is. —See an Account of the Life, Death, and
Character of Dr G.-lll, in the London Morning Chronicle of 17th
September 1828.
The specious arguments, however, of the supporters of the doc-
trine in this country, appear to have succeeded in allaying the ap-
prehensions of thek unphilosophical disciples. Nay, so extraordi-
nary was the delusion, that, at one time, phrenology had nearly be-
come an orthodox dogma of religious belief in Scotland. But the
most active advocates of this theory have now, in the fulness of time,
acquired sufficient confidence to throw off the mask, and expose to
the public the true features of their system, in aU its nakedness and
deformity.
Some short time ago an Address was delivered to the Phrenologi-
cal Association in London, by Dr Engledub, which was afterwards
pubhshed with the entire approbation and solemn imprinuUiiA' of
Dr Elliotson. In this laboured Address, which is avowedly cal-
culated to produce a thorough revolution in science and society, the
medico-philosophical author expatiates with great boldness and appa-
rent originality upon Cerebral Physiology—a new name, we presume,
for phrenology—and materialism. A very few extracts, wth ap-
propriate remarks, will be (juite sufficient, we should think, to con-
vey a tolerably accurate notion of the scope and tendency of this
notable production, which professes to demohsh and supersede all
previous systems of the philosophy of mind.
The intrepid autlior thus announces his main proposition, which
he evidently wishes to be received as as a first truth—a philosophi-
cal axiom, " We contend that mind 1ms hut an imagina/>'y exiat-
22 INTRODUCTION.
subject we are now considering involves a mere question
of fact, and not of speculation, and cannot, therefore, be
ence and he soimdly chastises the stolidity of our ingenious coun-
tryman, Mr George Combe, for expressing the following flimsy and
heterodox opinion upon this subject. " We do not in this life know
mind as one entity and body as another, but we are acquainted only
with the compound existence of mind and body, which act constant-
ly together, and are so intimately connected, that every state of the
mind involves a corresponding state of certain corporeal orcjans, and
every state of these organs involves a certain condition of the mind."
Dr Engledue does not seem to be aware that Arthur Collier,
Bishop Berkeley, and the other idealists, had long ago disproved
the existence of matter in the universe ; and if he—the doctor
—
shall be thought to have succeeded in exj^loding mind, we shall then
have arrived at the non jylus idtra of the sublime in philosophy
—
a plencmj vacuum, in which " nothing is but what is not."
\^'hat philosophers, in general, denominate mind, Dr Engle-
DUE proposes to designate by the much more appropriate, and far
more intelligible name of Cerebration ; and we are told that ce7-cbra-
tion " expresses the manifestation of a series of actions resulting from
the properties possessed by a particular portion of organism
—
brain
—when acted upon by appropriate powers." What the appropriate
powers of tlie cerebration-pliilosopher may be we are not inform-
ed, ikrther than that they are " certain necessary stimuli"—not men-
tal, of course. And here oiu- redoubted Ccrehrationist seems to be
fairly stranded at the very outset, and can only rescue himself and
his system from their awkward embarrassment by one of these arbi-
trary and authoritative dicta so frequently resorted to, in their mani-
fold difficulties, by the esprits forts in philosophy.
" The '
why or how' such a form of matter is capable of manifest-
ing such peculiar functions, m'e cannot explain." We are not in
the least surprised at this inability. But then, it seems, it is
sufficient for our pur])ose"—the purpose of the cerebration philoso-
phers—" to DEcmE that it is so" No doubt it may ;
and such an
arbitrary decision, too, may be very convenient for system-mongers,
when their proofs are defective. But the weaker brethren in phi-
losopliy—such as ourselves—very absm-dly, perhaps, require some
evidence of a proposition before giving their assent to it. They fool-
ishly imagine that it is necessary to apprehend, to reflect, to com-
jjare, to reason, to judge, before pronoimcing a decision. All tlus,
no doubt, may be qmte superfluous in the more condensed logic of
tlie cerebration school of philosophy ; but its teacliers surel)- miglit
condescend to adapt their lessons more to the capacity of less pro-
minent intellectual developments.
Tlie, products of cerebral manifestation—manifestation of cere-
bration—however evolved—are afterwards aptly and most ingeni-
ously assimilated to the " bile or the saliva" which " arc secreted by
INTRODUCTION, 23
determined, a priori, upon any abstract principles of pos-
sibiUty or impossibility, which are founded upon gratui-
their respective glands." This, we thought, had been a briUiant dis-
covery of Dr Elliotson's ; but it has been adopted, at least, if not
actually first discovered, by Dr Engledue—(I'iiwZa tu dignus, et hic) ;
and having now the decisive authority of both of the learned doc-
tors (Arcades ambo) for the fact, philosophers may now be complete-
ly assiued that what have hitherto been vulgarly denommated men-
tal phenomena, are, in reality, nothing more than Ule and saliva, or
something of a similar nature. It is fortunate, perhaps, that they
have not been discovered to be something even more nauseous. For,
farther—we are informed that "the process of thinhing is precisely
analogous] to that of digestion:'' " We"—that is the cerebration
philosophers—" we see that certain articles of food conveyed to the
stomach excite it to the performance of its ftmction
—
digestion. In
like manner, the external senses receive impressions and convey
them to the brain,"—/iow it is not said,
—"and excite it to the per-
formance of its fnnctions—cc?-e&?-a<ioM." All this is in perfect ac-
cordance ^\ith the dictum of some of the ancient schoolmen
—
Nihil
est in intellectu quod own -pniis fuerit in sensu. Grain thrown into
the receiver of a mill excites it to the performance of its fimction
—
grinding. Moreover, as the perfect performance of digestion de-
pends on the healthy state of its organ
—
stomadi ; so the perfect
performance of cerebration depends on the healthy state of its organ
—hrain ; as the perfect performance of the process of gi-inding de-
pends on the sound state of the machinery of the mill. To continue
the parallel, the author might have added, that, as it is the business
of the stomachic viscera to separate the wholesome and nutritive
from the deleterious and excrementitious matter of our food ; so ought
it to be the business of the cerebral viscus to separate the product
of healthy thought fi-om the filthy excrement of insane and un-
wholesome drivelling-—a function of no unimportant natm'e, in its
consequences to the individual and to society.
But, exclaims some ignorant antagonist, " this is not the doctrine
of Gall ;" to which our indignant author emphatically replies
:
" This is Gall's doctrine."
—
Lis est de pcmpere regno. Moreover,
" the science which he (Gall) left in its infancy, has been cradled
and nursed"—to little purpose, it would appear, for the bantling, con-
fessedly, is still rickety—" we find it still comparatively in its in-
fancy." But the greater the infancy of the science—the weaker, in
short, our premises—the bolder and stronger, it would appear from
the new philosophy, are the conclusions we are warranted in dedu-
cing from it. This, we are led to presume, is a fundamental princi-
ple in the new science of cerebration.
So much for the science—now for the consequences.
And, in the first place, with regard to the " conjectural doctrine
of mind," let us listen to the irrefragable refutation of this mon-
strous hallucination by the profound excogitations and irresistible
24 INTRODUCTION.
tous and questionable opinion and, without manifest ab-
surdity, cannot be applied to the actually observed phe-
reasoning of our most subtile cerebration philosophers. " We"—
the united Cerebrationists of England—" we"—the reno^ed
Doctors Elliotson and Engledue—" we oppose this system (viz.
the doctrine of mind) by the antagonism oi Reason and "iVaiiwe. It
is impossible any longer to coimtenance this opinion. It must be
rooted out. It is like a malignant disease.'"—Here the M. D. is
quite at home ; but he ought not to be so malirjna/nt and wtupera-
tive—we might, perhaps, say demented.—Mind, however, according
to the cerebration philosophers, is a disease—a malignant disease
—like a cancer, we presume,—" which can only be cm-ed by exter-
mination," " Let it be boldly stated, because it is true, that, as phi-
losophers, we"—the cerebrationists aforesaid—" have to deal simply
and exchmvely ivith matter."—Now, is there any person so pig-
headed—so cerebrally obtuse—as not to perceive that mind has
now been utterly exterminated ? We philosophers (God help us !)
have boldly and oracularly declared, " It is true !" and that single
argument is a finisher.
But however undaunted in the fearless announcement of such
vastly original, and laboriously excogitated, and profound discove-
ries, our truly philosophical author appears to have also his occa-
sional moments of doubt, of modesty and of diffidence—qualities
rarely to be found, we should presume, in a cerebration philoso-
pher ; and in one of these we find him exclaiming, in a rather me-
lancholy and lugubrious tone :
—" TRUE, w^e know little about
THE MATTER !" Now, this, we apprehend is by much the truest pro-
position he has stumbled upon throughout the whole of his eloquent
Address ; and we just thought that it might have saved himself a
great deal of laborious trifling, and his audience an useless expendi-
ture of time and patience, had he only made this highly important
discovery a little sooner. But, then, no doubt, they ^yould have
been deprived of this exquisite exemplification of the parturiunt
monies. We have generally found that the dogmatic arrogance and
pretension of the would-be-philosopher are in the exact ratio of his
ignorance and imbecility. If there be any truth in the cerebration-
philosophy, the brain of a thorough-going cerebrationist must bear
a very striking resemblance to—a poached egg.
The A ddress of Dr Engledue is followed by a Letter to the au-
thor by Dr Elliotson, approl^atory of the whole doctrines of cere-
l)ration, and, more especially, of the nidlification of mind. Of this
letter we have little to say, and, perliaps, the less that is said of it
the better. This learned Doctor is continually carried off his feet
by every novelty—his mind (if any mind he has,) is eminently dis-
qualified for philosophical research,—when he liappens to get hold
of any- truth, he seems incapable of making a riglit use of it—lie
seems incapable of disting'oishing trutli from illusion. A consider-
INTRODUCTION. 25
nomena of nature. A demonstrated fact precludes all
speculation with regard to its possibility or reality. We
able part of his letter, upon the present occasion, is taken up with
an account of certain experiments in that new bastard science call-
ed Phreno-Mesmerism, of wluch he speaks in terms of the most
raptiu-ous delight. "Oh!" he exclaims,—" Oh, that Gall could
have lived to see this day—these astoundincj pi-oofs of the truth of
X>hrenolorjyr We have taken another occasion to make some ob-
servations upon this subject, sufficient, we should think, to make
tlie intelligent portion of the puljHc aware of the complete hocus-
pocus of these experiments. (See the Fallacy of Phreno-Magne-
Tiiiyi detected and exposed. Edinburgh, 1843.) If fairly conducted
and correctly reported, they afford, indeed, conclusive evidence of the
influence of animal magnetism, but they present no proo^^ whatever
of the truth of phrenology. One assertion of Dr Elliotson's, how-
ever, did really astonish us. He says, " I have made experiments in
mesmerising daily"
—" and I have never once discovered the influ-
ence of my -vviU. I have never produced any effect by merely ^vill-
ing." This is, at best ambiguous ; but must we suppose the learn-
ed doctor to be utterly ignorant of the only conceivable mode in
which such phenomena can be produced in the particular circum-
stances ? If so, he has, as yet, made but little progress in his mes-
meric studies, and his experiments are of small value. What can
the phrenological doctor mean by the foregoing assertion ? Does
he not pretend to magnetise a particular organ with the intention
of producing a certain manifestation ; and does not this very act
itself imply an exercise of the will ? And how does he contrive to
magnetise an organ ? If the doctor does not discover his own vnW,
he may depend upon it that, if in the requisite state, his magnetic
l)atients not fail to do so for him. Moreover, he does not ap-
pear to be aware that similar phenomena have been manifested
in cases of the idio- somnambulism, by psychical means alone, and
wthout any co-operation of magnetism or mesmerism ? Let him
attentively peruse the work of his ingenious friend Mr Townshend, in
which this subject, amongst others, is well handled, as it has been
indeed, by almost every writer on zoo-magnetism. It has frequent-
ly appeared to us that Dr Elliotson merely skims along the sur-
face of a science ; and that he is incapable of penetrating to any
depth. Hence, all his knowledge is merely superficial, and gene-
rally conducts him to a series of ingenious blunders.
We knew Dr Elliotson of old as a %vhole-hog materialist. He
has not changed his opinions, and to our regret, probably never will.
He cannot cast off his leaden shoes. In his letter, now before us,
to Dr Engledue, he makes some garbled extracts from the works of
certain philosophers and divines of the sensualist school, in support
of his own views. There are few philosophers, however, even of re-
pute, who have not, in their unguarded moments, uttered some fool-
26 INTRODUCTION.
have endeavoured to prove, however,—although to the
enlightened reader this may appear to have been a work
of supererogation—that the fact in question is nowise in-
consistent with philosophy, and, on the other hand, that
it has been actually observed in hundi-eds of instances
both of the natural and of the magnetic somnambulism.
Moreover, this very fact may go a great way towards de-
termining the controversy which has so long subsisted
between the materialists and their opponents.
In the somnambulistic affections—the sjraptoms of
which have been hitherto far too little attended to—it has
been proved beyond the possibility of doubt, that the en-
tire sensibility undergoes a very remarkable change
—
that the ordinary sensation is sometimes totally abolished,
and that the faculty of perception is then exercised in a
manner entirely different from that which takes place in
the normal condition of the organism—in the ordinary
state of existence. It is in vain to object that we are in-
capable of accounting for this fact upon any acknowledged
philosophical principle ;
for, in treating of perception in
ish, hasty, or heterodox opinion ; and such ohiter dicta are of little
value. But we are pretty confident that not one of the authors re-
ferred to would have given his serious and deliberate assent to the
principles and conclusions of the phrenological materialism, as ex-
pounded by the cerebration-philosophers.
We are informed that, in the society to which it was read, the
Address of Dr Engledqe was received -with almost universal disgust.
We are surprised that the feeling excited was not of a totally diffe-
rent character ; for the paper in question only wanted the classical
elegance and inimitable humour of Martinus Scribbleuus to ren-
der it superlatively ludicrous. We should hope, however, that the
X)hysic of the two phrenological doctors is somewhat more palatable
than their philosophy ; for
" There is no taste in this philosophy,
'Tis like a potion that a man should drink,
But tm-ns his stomach with the sight of it."
Ben Johnson.
The system, indeed, as we have already hinted, has not even the
equivocal merit of novelty or originality. It will be found far more
ingeniously developed in the works of Priestley, Dei,ai\ietkrie, the
author of the Systcmc de la Nature, the French Ennjclofcdistcs,
Broussais, &c.
There is nothing new under tlie sun.
INTRODUCTION. 27
we
its ordinary form, Dr Reid justly observes, that
shall find many things in this operation unaccountable.
We can assign no reason, a priori, why perception may
not be exercised without the assistance of the usual bo-
dily organs ;
whereas, when we reason a posteriori, trom
the facts, we find the strongest grounds for believing that
such an extraordinary exercise of the perceptive powers
not only may, but actually does occasionally take place
durino- the temporary suspension, or quiescence, of the
ordinary sensibility, by means, probably, of some awak-
ened instinct, or of some process of more immediate in-
tuition ;—a phenomenon which, philosophically consider-
ed, is no more incomprehensible or inexplicable, than are
the normal manifestations of sense and intellect. Our
faculties are insufficient to enable us to determine the ex-
tent of natural causalties, and to fix their bounds, and
to say to Nature : Hitherto canst thou go, and no fur-
ther ; and he who adopts this standard of judgment, " is
himself the greatest miracle of knowledge or immodesty."
Those individuals, it is apprehended, who are free and
unshackled by the " gives and fetters" of material sys-
tems of philosophy, will not hesitate to acknowledge that
the foregoing observations are perfectly consistent with
the deductions of right reason. It may farther gratify
the feelings of many other most respectable persons, to
whom the whole of this matter has been wilfully and most
egregiously misrepresented, to be made aware that these
observations are entirely consonant to the scriptural doc-
trines of Christianity, as expounded by St Paul ;
who,
with all his devotional zeal and fervid eloquence, fre-
quently displays more philosophical learning and acute-
ness than he generally gets credit for. We acknowledge,
indeed, that it is not always advisable, and may some-
times be improper or even dangerous, to refer to scrip-
tural texts in support of philosophical dogmas ; because
it frequently happens that these texts cannot be shown to
be applicable to the points in hand, without being wrested^
with some violence, from their proper and genuine mean-
ing. Upon the present occasion, however, we deem this
28 INTRODUCTION.
proceeding perfectly justifiable, seeing that the passages
to be referred to appear to us to be clearly in point, and
that those who maintain the proposition for the truth of
which we are now contending, have, singularly enough,
been accused by the sceptics of holding opinions contrary
to the divine order of things.
_
Now, in some of the Epistles of St Paul, the distinc-
tion between the spiritual and the corporeal portion of
our being is laid down with such clearness, and insisted
upon with such earnestness, that, from the circumstance
already alluded to, we can feel no hesitation in appealing
to the authoritative inspiration of the apostle in aid of our
philosophy. We confess, too, that we have sincere plea-
sure in contemplating the perfect agreement between the
phenomena of nature, the deductions of reason, and the
tenets of our Christian faith.*
In the first Epistle to the Corinthians, (chap. xv.
40,) St Paul informs us that " there are celestial bodies,
and bodies terrestrial ;" and in the 44th verse of the same
chapter, we are told, in regard to our own bodies, that
" it is sown a natural body ; it is raised a spiritual
body ;" and then follows the important declaration :
—
" TJiere is a natural body, and there is a spiritual
body." Man, in short, is composed of two different na-
tures—the physical or corporeal, and the psychical or
spiritual. In our present state, these two natui'es are
conjoined ; in the future state, the soul, or spirit, will be
disembodied, and our knowledge, instead of being acquir-
ed through the instrumentality of material organs, will
probably be derived from immediate intuition—the pro-
duct of pure consciousness. In the first Epistle to the
Thessalonians, St Paul speaks of our " whole spirit, and
soul, and body ;" and in several of the other writings of
the same apostle, there occur frequent allusions to the
* From some of the opinions expressed in my former writings,
the sceptics and infidels took occasion to denounce me as a bif/ot :
the same opinions, I believe, were considered too lax by some of the
stricter sectarians. I fear I must bo content to run the risk of mar-
tyrdom on Ijoth sides. But I may shelter myself in the meantime,
under the old maxim
—
in medio tutissmiis ibi^.
INTRODUCTION. 29
same distinction and antagonism between the Jlesh and
the spirit ; but, as '^
jlesh and hlood cannot inherit the
kingdom of heaven," no such antagonism can exist in a
future life, because, then, " mortahty will put on immor-
taUty," and man will become an entirely spiritual being.
In what peculiar manner matter and spirit are connected
in us, in our present state, is a problem which appears to
be placed far beyond the reach of our human compre-
hension.
The very significant apostolic intimations, above refer-
red to, ought to be well considered by those well-mean-
ing, it may be, but, assuredly, mistaken individuals, who
attempt to reconcile the philosophical doctrine of material-
ism with the paramount tiniths of Christianity. Even in
this life, however, we may perceive a pregnant proof of
the reality of the important distinction in question in
some of the higher phenomena of somnambulism, or the
ecstatic crisis ; in which the spiritual faculties are so re-
markably developed, during the temporary suspension of
the corporeal sensibility. Similar phenomena, too, have
been occasionally observed in many individuals upon the
near approach of dissolution, when the soul appeared to
be in the act of disentangling itself from the impediments
of the mortal body, and preparing to launch upon an-
other, and a purer and more glorious state of existence.
But we must refrain from pursuing this subject any
farther at present, lest we be accused of mysticism by the
ignorant and the thoughtless. We must maintain, however,
that there is no arrogance more presumptuous than the ar-
rogance of those who pretend to deny the reality, and even
to cast ridicule upon the belief of every thing which is in-
capable ofimmediate sensible demonstration. In our present
state of existence, indeed, we see only in part; but, from the
things which are seen, are we not entitled to form an au-
gury in regard to those which are placed beyond the sphere
of our natural vision ? The blear-eyed materialist, indeed,
will contmue to hold up his farthing candle before your
eyes, and endeavour to obscure the light of the sun. FooUsh
creature !—" Thou wilt have no mystery and mysticism ?
30 INTRODUCTION.
Wilt walk through the world by the sunshine of what
thou callest logic ? Thou wilt explain all, account for all,
or believe nothing of it ? Nay, thou wilt even attempt
laughter !
" Whoso recognises the unfathomable, all-prevading
domain of mystery, which is everywhere under our feet
and among our hands ; to whom the universe is an oracle
and a temple, as well as kitchen and cattle-stall—he shall
be called a mystic, and delirious. To him thou, with
sniffing charity, wilt protrusively proffer thy hand-lamp,
and shriek, as one injured, when he kicks his foot
through it. Wert thou not born ? Wilt thou not die ?
Explain me all this—or do one of two things : Retire
into private places with thy foolish cackle ;
or, what were
better, give it up ; and weep not that the reign of won-
der is done, and God's world all disembellished and pro-
saic, but that thou thyself art hitherto a sand-blind pe-
dant."
—
Carlyle.
( 31 )
BIOGRAPHICAL NOTICE OF WIENHOLT.
Arnold Wienholt, the author of the followuig
Lectures, was born at Bremen on the 18th of August,
1740, and died in his native town on the 1st of Septem-
ber, 1804.
He studied medicine, took his degree, and, from that
time, seems to have devoted himself entirely to the du-
ties of his profession. We have not been able to collect
any particulars of his private life ; but he would appear
to have been a man of quiet and unostentatious habits,
and much addicted to study and research, especially upon
subjects connected with his professional pursuits. His
excellent sense, and perfect probity of moral character,
gained him the esteem and affection of all who came
within the circle of his acquaintance. Contemporary writ-
ers, who have occasion to mention his name, uniformly
represent him as a man of amiable feelings and strict in-
tegrity. Sir J. D. Brandis, physician to the King of
Denmark, who enjoyed his friendship, and knew him
well, speaks of him as " my honest and upright Wien-
holt ;" and other writers ascribe to him the same cha-
racter of ingenuousness and devotion to truth.
In the year 1787, the attention of the physicians of
Bremen was directed, by Lavater, to the great dis-
covery of Mesmer. At first, considerable scepticism on
the subject was very naturally manifested ; but, soon af-
ter, in consequence of experimental investigation, the re-
ahty of the agent, and the utility of the processes in me-
dical practice, were recognised by several able and learned
men, some of whom were induced to communicate the
32 BIOGRAPHICAL NOTICE OB' VVIENHOLT.
result of their experience to the public. Among these
early magnetists of the school of I3remen were Bicker,
BbcKMANN, Gmelin, Heinecken, and our author. In
his experimental researches, Wienholt was assisted by
some of his friends and colleagues—two of whom subse-
quently acquired celebrity in other departments of scien-
tific inquiry
—
Olbers the astronomer, and Trevira-
Nus, author of the Biologie.
Wienholt, like the rest of his professional brethren,
had been originally sceptical upon the subject of animal
magnetism ; but his candid spirit of research would not
permit him, like many others in the same situation, to
continue satisfied with doubting, or, at least, to remain
in the scepticism of ignorance. He was induced to make
experiments in the course of his medical practice ;
the re-
sults were most satisfactory ; and from that period, he
became a decided convert to the new doctrine—heretical,
as it was then esteemed. In 1787, he conmaunicated the
grounds of his conviction to the public, in a small work,
entitled, Beytrag zu den Erfahrimgen iiber den thie-
rischen Magnetismus. Other writings upon the subject
appeared about the same time—all of them published by
medical practitioners—and many converts to the new
doctrine daily announced themselves.
Such an innovation upon the established routine ot
medical practice, however, was not likely to be calmly
tolerated, or tamely submitted to. Controversies, accord-
ino-ly, arose upon the subject of the new discoveries,_ which
wire then, as now, conducted with great heat, acrimony,
and intemperance, on the part of the sceptics. W ien-
holt, who was a man of quiet temper and retiring ha-
bits, now stood aloof, and declined taking any part m these
unseemly contentions, but calmly continued to prosecute
his owi/private investigations. His magnetic jn-act.ce
was attended with much success ;
and «f
gratifying results to the personal feelings of the subject
S tliis memoir, was the complete cure of his so^^^^^
very delicate child, apparently
f <^P^^^P
,^7; f
-who, after all other means had been resorted to in ^ am.
BIOGRAPHICAL NOTICE OF WIENHOLT.
was restored to perfect health by the mesmeric treatment,
and afterwards grew up to vigorous manhood.
The cases magnetically treated by the author himself,
with the occasional assistance of some one or other of his
colleagues, amounted to nearly eighty ; the whole details
of which are carefully reported in his largest and princi-
pal work : Heilkraft des thierischen Magnetismus nach
eigenen Beohaclitungen ; 3 vols. 8vo, Lemgo, 1802-
1805 : the last volume being a posthumous publication.
This work forms a rich treasure of practical observations
for the student of magnetism.
WiENHOLT, however, was no less distinguished by his
ingenious and able efforts to illustrate the more obscure
phenomena of animal magnetism, than for his quiet zeal
and assiduity in expiscating the facts. The following
Lectures constitute only a small portion of the product of
his indefatigable ardour and industry in the cultivation
of this interesting field of experiment and observation.
By devoting himself, however, to the study and improve-
ment of scientific medicine, and especially by his interest-
ing researches in the department of zoo-magnetic science,
he exposed himself to the open attacks or covert sneers
of t?iOse of his professional brethren who preferred re-
maining in self-satisfied ignorance, or who entertained an
inveterate jealousy of the new practice ; but his talents
for observation, and his undeviating rectitude and honesty
of pm-pose were universally acknowledged. When this
irrational jealousy shall be superseded by impartial in-
quiry, and the heat of controversial discussion shall have
yielded to the calm and equable temper of philosophical
conviction, the name of Arnold Wienholt will un-
questionably be held in estimation, as that of one of the
most judicious and disinterested friends and promoters of
the once obnoxious and calumniated science.
During his lifetime, Wienholt pubhshed some other
small treatises on medical subjects ; but these have been
placed in comparative obscurity by his more important
publications in the department of Animal Magnetism.
c
SEVEN LECTUEES
ON
SOMNAMBULISM.
FROM THE GERMAN OF WIENIIOLT.
( 37 )
LECTURE 1.
It is a matter of general notoriety that our philosophy
has undergone a great change within the last twenty
years.* The edifice which had been erected with so
much labour, and which appeared to be so firmly esta-
blished, has been shaken to its foundations, and now
lies, for the most part, in ruins. The most important
doctrines have become doubtful. The arguments by
which they were supported have been deprived of their
strength, and many laboriously excogitated hypotheses
and explanations have been buried under the remaining
rubbish. Instead of all this, a new edifice has been rais-
ed, erected upon a different, and, as it would appear, a
more solid foundation, which, more inviting from its
form, its simplicity, and its apparently better connec-
tion, seems to promise more convenient and more per-
manent accommodation. It is a pity that the path which
leads to it is so narrow, so rugged and so toilsome, that
few, it is to be feared, will attempt it, and still fewer
persevere to the end. Whether this new edifice will
compensate, to those who have obtained admission into
the interior, the loss they have sustained in the destruc-
tion of the old fabric ; whether it will accomplish its ob-
ject; whether it will ultimately alFord the anticipated
convenience and security, as a permanent habitation ;
—
all this must be left to the determination of futurity.
But even should it be discovered, after a longer or shorter
* The reader will observe that this was written in Germany, at
the period when the philosophy of Kant came into vogue, and gave
full occupation to the speculative genius of the metaphysicians of
that country.
—
Trans.
38 LECTURE r.
period, that all these expectations have been disappoint-
ed, it would still imply no small degree of merit to have
thus shaken, subverted, and overthrown. Mankind are
apt to be too easily satisfied with the knowledge they may
happen to have acquired, and are loath to allow them-
selves to be deprived of it, especially when it has grown
old with them, or has cost them some trouble in the ac-
quisition. They are disposed to look upon themselves
as the creators of this knowledge, whether it be self-ac-
quired, or borrowed from others ; it has become amalga-
mated with their being—a part of themselves ; and their
pride will not pei-mit them to consider it as something
unconnected or imperfect. But nothing is more injuri-
ous to the development of the intellectual faculties, no-
thing imposes such heavy fetters upon the spirit of in-
quiry, as this self-complacency—this illusion of having
already attained the goal fi-om which we are yet so far
distant ; and nothing, therefore, can be more salutary to
the mind than such an occasional convulsion, as a means
of laying open to view the faults and imperfections of
our systems. Every new investigation tends to enrich
us ; the more searching it is, so much the more useful ;
and that which cannot brook such an ordeal, is not worth
our trouble to acquire, or our efforts to preserve. The
great reform in question, therefore, however it may have
been opposed, regretted or condemned by many, is, in
this respect, deserving of our warmest acknowledgments.
Would that this salutary improvement had pervaded
every department of our philosophy ! But there is one
branch of it—and one of great importance to humanity—
which it has not yet reached ; that branch v/hich is con-
versant with the noblest portion of our being, so far as it
can be considered an object of experimental inquiry ;
—
that which has been denominated empirical psychologif.
In this department, the spirit of the old system is still
predominant. Here, the limits assigned to our know-
ledge are no longer to be respected ;
here, every thing
must be comprehended, explained, and made evident to
our senses.
ON SOMNAMBULISM. 39
The philosopher knows, indeed, that he has here to do
witli something transcending the boundaries of our sensi-
ble experience, cognisable only by the internal conscious-
ness, which unequivocally announces its existence, its
difference from all material being, its simplicity and in-
dependence. But he sees, also, that this transcendent
something is most intimately connected and interwoven
with his body ; that the one affects the other by recipro-
cal action and reaction ; that the brain and the nerves,
in their proper condition, are necessary to the soul, in
the due exercise of its functions ; and that the foraier are
as dependent upon it, as it is upon them. Here, how-
ever, the philosopher is unwilling to distinguish. He
does not, or will not, see, that this compound being, so
far as relates to the functions of the supersensible prin-
ciple, lies beyond the sphere of his knowledge. He in-
sists upon applying his knowledge of bodies, of the phe-
nomena he observes in them, and the laws by which they
are governed, to the compound and heterogeneous being,
3Ian ; and he forgets that they are applicable only to
one portion of this aggregate. Thus, he must explain
all the manifestations of the perceptive faculty, from
simple sensation to the highest operations of the soul
—
the imagination and the memory, if not even the think-
ing power itself—^upon mechanical principles, and ascribe
them to corporeal motions, agitations, impressions, and the
agency of different fluids.
Had these hypotheses been merely assumed for the
purpose of aiding our incapacity, as a means of more
easily communicating our ideas to others, and regarded
as mere representative images substituted for the things
themselves, which could not be rendei-ed objective to
sense—all this might have been allowed to pass. But
our philosophers were not so modest and cautious. The
sign was set down for the very thing itself. They
thought they had now apprehended the true nature of
our perceptive faculty ;
they pretended to be in a situa-
tion to decypher the whole of the various mental mani-
festations, and believed that, by means of this finer or
40 LECTDRE I.
grosser materialism, they had exhausted the philosophy
of this important subject. A few individuals only
—
among whom Reimarus and Herz are the most emi-
nent*—placed themselves in an attitude of determined
opposition to this false and debasing theory, but not with
that success which might have been reasonably expected.
The mechanical explanations of the operations of the
soul still predominate in our latest physiological and
psychological text-books, although deprived of that
grosser garment in which they were formerly enveloped.
Mankind are still unwilling to abandon their supposed
acquisitions ; and it is to be feared that these doctrines
will obtain still greater vogue, now that we have com-
menced to apply our knowledge of the gaseous fluids
—
an otherwise most important discovery, for which we are
indebted to our own age—to the explanation of the more
* Heremann Samuel Reimarus was bom at Hamburgh in 1694.
He received his elementary education in his native citj', and after-
wards repaired to the universities of Jena and Wittenberg, at which
last he took his degree of A. M. He then made a joume}' to Hol-
land and England, and, on his return, was apjiointed to the recto-
rate at Wismar, which he held during four years, and then ac-
cepted a call to Hamburgh, as Professor of Oriental Languages in
the Gymnasium of that city. T*is situation he retained until the
period of his death, in the year 1768.
His chief work, on the Principles of Natural Religion, is well
kno^vn, and has been much esteemed. A translation of it exists in
our language. He was also the author of a Treatise on the Instinct
of Animals, and of various other learned works.
Marcus Herz was the son of a schoolmaster at Berlin, of a Jew-
ish family, and was born there on the 17th of January 1747. He
studied medicine, took his degree, and acquired distinction as a
physician ; and he increased his reputation by delivering lectures
upon philosophical subjects, particularly on the Philosophy of Kant.
In this way he obtained gi-eat popularity, and was appomted to the
situation of Professor of Philosophy. He died on the 20th of Ja-
nuary 1803. r JT
The most important and most popular publication of HERZ_was
his Treatise on Vertigo, (Versuch iiber den Schwindel, Berhn, 1786),
which was much esteemed by his countrymen, and considered a
classical production. He was also the author of several other
treatises, especially on experimental pliysics. In lus latter days,
he was a violent opponent of the vaccme inoculation, and wrote a
tract against that practice.
ON SOMNAMBULISAf. 41
delicate operations of the human machine. A wider field
has thus been opened up for this mechanical psychology.
Wherever the previous explanations are found to be in-
adequate, some of these gaseous fluids will probably be
substituted in their place ; and their various combina-
tions and decompositions, real as well as possible, may
become the fundamental principle of our next system of
psychology ;
perhaps even our incomprehensible percep-
tive faculty may ultimately be analysed into the very in-
telligible chemical union and dissolution of some of these
finer gases. It were desirable that other authors, such
as Reimarus and Herz, might arise, to oppose, with all
the energy of learning and talent, all future attempts to
construct such visionary theories, by demonstrating their
utter worthlessness. If we should then, at length, be
compelled to retrace our steps ; if it should appear that,
in this province also, om* knowledge is mere patch-work ;
thus much would still be gained—we should no longer
make a parade of our false acquisitions, we should no
longer contemptuously reject every thing that appeared
incompatible with these theories. We should become
wiser in consequence, and cease to waste our time and
our faculties upon inquiries which transcend our com-
prehension, and which can tenninate in nothing but use-
less speculations.
But our psychology still presents a side which requires
to be narrowly investigated. In this science, we have to
do with that state of the supersensible bemg, in which
it apparently overleaps the boundary of its usual pheno-
mena, relations and laws, and in which it exhibits pro-
perties which, at other times, it does not seem to possess
at all, or, at least, not in the same degree.
Philosophers, when they have once deduced a number
of general principles from a certain range of experience,
are not easily brought to admit of exceptions from these
general laws, when once established to their satisfaction.
They endeavour to reduce all subsequently supervening
facts, however anomalous, under subjection to these laws.
They twist them in all directions, until they get them
42 LECTURE r.
nolentes, volentes—accommodated to their theory ; and,
if they do not succeed, they consider this circumstance
as a perfectly good ground for throwing them aside ;
and, accordingly, notwithstanding all the evidence of
their reality, they are, at once, struck out of the category
of facts. This conduct is by no means philosophical.
Every remarkable observation, attested by honest and
competent witnesses, however much it may appear to
deviate from the common path, should first be most
strictly investigated, with a view to ascertain its his-
torical accuracy ; and after such sufficient inquiry, it
ought to be either admitted or rejected, according
to the result of the inquisition. Should it, at last, be
found capable of being associated among the number of
acknowledged facts, and that its divergence from the re-
ceived laws of nature is only apparent, so much the bet-
ter. On the other hand, should it appear that there is
no room for accommodation, we ought to consider that
the incomprehensible principle within us, attached to the
body, and confined by it on all sides, if placed in other
circumstances, if standing in a different situation, and in
other relations towards the material world, might also be
enabled to manifest itself otherwise, and to act in a dif-
ferent manner. We ought, therefore, to lay bye such a
fact, until we have an opportunity of considering whether
there may not exist other facts of the same kind, inves-
tigated and authenticated with the same strictness, which
confii-m the former, and are capable of being associated
with it. And this procedure ought not to be neglected,
even although great blanks should thereby occasionally
arise in cm- combined knowledge. It might, perhaps, in
the end, conduct us to the knowledge of that principal
element of our being, of its independence on the body, of
the powers that slumber within it, and the capability of
their improvement. But this mode of proceeding has not
been adopted ; we have not endeavoured to derive our
instruction from nature ; we have not calmly and impar-
tially investigated her laws, and also the exceptions to
which they are liable ; but wc have dictated to her what
ON SOMNAMBULISM. 43
laws she ought to follow. From the materials presented
to us by the most common observation, we deduced ge-
neral rules, applied these also to unusual occurrences,
and appreciated the latter by the foraier. Examples
of all this will be found in a recent woi-k, rich, indeed, in
facts, but really poor in satisfactory explanations : The
Psychological Magazine o/"Moritz.
Perhaps I owe you an apology for this long preface.
It was intended to serve as an introduction not merely to
the lecture of to-day, but to others, upon a series of phe-
nomena which belong to the species of facts before-men-
tioned ; viz. upon certain phenomena of somnambulism,
on their peculiar nature, and the point of view in which
they have been regarded by our late and latest philoso-
phers. I flatter myself that I am sufficiently acquainted
with these phenomena, from the writings of others, as well
as from the personal observation of nature. I believe I
am in a situation to be able to give you some information
upon this subject, which may appear not altogether un-
worthy of your attention ; and I am desirous of compar-
ing the explanations usually given of the phenomena in
question with the actual manifestations of nature. It
must be understood that I am now going to speak of the
Natural Somnambulism, or Nootambulism, as it
frequently occurs in persons otherwise apparently healthy,
especially in children during their sleep, or also, as a
symptom in serious nervous diseases ; and not of similar
states, which, as is well known, have been produced, in
recent times, by artificial means. In the former we have
a series of facts, in which all suspicion of illusion, decep-
tion, influence of the imagination, (Src. is so entirely out
of the question, that, in regard to the main points, to
which every thing else is accessary, we can entertain no
doubt of the reality of the circumstances. Somnambu-
lism is a phenomenon too important for the psychologist
and observer of human nature, than that new investiga-
tions upon this subject, notwithstanding all that has been
hitherto written upon it, should not still be regarded with
44 LECTURE I.
interest. It exhibits man in a totally different situation
towards the external world, displays the thinking and sen-
tient principle as a differently acting being, which relapses
again into its ordinary state, as soon as the curtain falls.
Here we find a different distribution of the vital power,
and, at the same time, manj'^ phenomena present them-
selves, which are quite out of harmony with all that we,
at other times, observe in man. But permit me, to-day,
to speak of only one of the various phenomena observed
in sleep-walkers—which, however, is one of the most re-
markable—of the closed eyes, with which these indivi-
duals perform actions, which, in his ordinary state, man
can only undertake with the most perfect enjoyment of
vision.
I need not call your attention to the great importance
of this particular inquiry. Should the result of our in-
vestigation demonstrate the proposition, that, in certain
circumstances, and under certain conditions, man may
continue to receive visual impressions from external ob-
jects in the same manner as when awake, and, in the
same manner, regulate his actions according to those im-
pressions, without the use of his eyes : this would con-
duct us to consequences which, I apprehend, must be
contemplated with no small interest by every educated
man, who values the knowledge of himself, and of his
future prospects. But these last considerations I shall
reserve until the termination of our inquiry. Let us first
obtam a more intimate acquaintance with the extraordi-
nary state of .which I am to treat in these Lectures.
The sleep-walker, when otherwise healthy, falls, at a
particular period, into a common sleep, which cannot be
distinguished from the natm-al state of repose. After a
longer or shorter time, he rises from his couch, and walks
about the room—sometimes about the house. He fre-
quently goes out into the open air, walks upon known or
unknown paths as quickly, and with as much activity and
confidence, as in his waking state, avoids all obstacles
which may stand, or have been designedly placed on his
route, and makes his way along rugged paths, and climbs
ON SOMNAMBULISM. 45
dangerous heights, which he would never have thought
of attempting when awake. He reads printed and writ-
ten papers, writes as well and as correctly as in his wak-
ing state, and performs many other operations requiring
light and the natural use of the eyes. All these actions,
however, are performed by the somnambulist in complete
darkness as well as when awake, and, generally, with his
eyes finnly closed. I shall afterwards speak of the ex-
ceptions, in which these persons have their eyes open.
When the period of his somnambuhsm has elapsed, he
returns to his bed, falls back again into his natural sleep,
awakes at his usual time, and, in most instances, knows
nothing of what he had done in the sleep-waMng state.
At the same time, there are very few persons who exhibit
all of these phenomena, or even the greater number of
them. For the most part, they only wander about, with-
out any other peculiar manifestation ; and the instances
in which several of the phenomena in question are exhi-
bited, are rare. This state, which is found in persons
otherwise healthy, frequently occurs in diseases, especial-
ly in diseases of the nervous system. In the latter case,
the affection usually commences with a paroxysm of con-
vulsive motions, catalepsy, apparent syncope ; and then
passes over into a state precisely similar, so far as regards
the principal symptoms, to somnambulism ;
only that, in
this latter case, the patients not only act, but speak •
which rarely happens in the former. Before these pa-
tients are completely restored to their ordinary waking
state,_their sleep is changed into a similar convulsive state,
combined with want of consciousness. Of this species of
somnambulism, occurring in nervous diseases, we are in
possession of many curious instances, of which the Aulic
Councillor Meiners, a celebrated Professor at Goettin-
gen, has inserted several very remarkable examples in
his instructive collection. In respect to its chief charac-
teristics, this species of somnambulism, occurring in ner-
vous diseases, completely resembles the natural crisis •
it
IS recognised by all competent judges as of the same
46 LECTURE 1.
kind, aud is compreliended under the same class of dis-
eases ; and in this view I also coincide.
The annals of medicine contain many cases of somnam-
bulism, which natm-ally differ from each other in respect
of the witnesses who have desci-ihed them, the fidelity and
accuracy with which they were observed, and the remark-
able character of the phenomena. But among this mul-
titude of cases, there ai-e, fortunately, several which are
specially distinguished by all the attributes of authenticity.
It is not difficult for me, therefore,—and it is neces-
sary for the purpose I have in view—to present you with
the details of some of these narratives, which appear to
be, in all respects, imobjectionable.
I begin with the case in Moritz's Magazine, which
was first translated by M. Spalding, and afterwards in-
serted by Meiners in his collection. This is a case
of what has been called the " louping ague," which, un-
questionably, is just one instance of that species of som-
nambulism which I have referred to as occasionally ac-
companying nervous diseases. The patient was a female
of sixteen years of age. The paroxysm generally attack-
ed her in the morning, and consisted of a profound sleep.
In this state, she would jump, with astonishing activity,
upon tables and chairs, run, when permitted, and wath
great rapidity, out of the house,—generally to a particu-
lar place in the neighbourhood ; and when she did not
awake, she would return immediately, but sometimes by
a different road, and in a different direction. She not
unfrequently left the high road, and ran straight through
the fields. She never fell, nor injured herself, however
rough her path might be, or however fast she might rmi
;
and her speed was sometimes so great, that her much
stronger and more active brother could not keep pace
with her. She frequently mounted upon the garden-wa 11,
upon the uneven top of which she continued to run ; nay,
she even went upon the edge of the house-roof, with-
out once stumbling, much less falling. During all
these hazardous operations, her eyes were fast closed,
ON SOMNAMEiULISM. 47
mid she appeared to he deprived of all her other
senses.*
The second volume of Moritz's Magazine contains
the history of a boy of nine years of age, who frequently
fell into a species of somnolency, during which he was
capable of carrying on a conversation. Jlis eyes were
fast closed, hut, notwithstanding of this circumstance,
he saw and named all objects that were 2J^'esented to
him.
A very remarkable case was related to me by a most
trustworthy observer, the late Hamburgh physician Dr
ScHULZ, from whom the Auhc Councillor Meiners of
Gottingen also received it, and inserted it in his well-
known collection. It was that of a girl between twelve
and thirteen years of age, belonging to a family of some
distinction, who was afflicted with a violent nervous com-
plaint, in which strong convulsive motions alternated with
catalepsy and syncope. Besides, she frequently had pa-
roxysms, during which she conversed with much liveliness
and ingenuity. In this state, she distinguished, without
difficulty, all colours that ivere presented to her, recog-
nised the numbers of cards, and the stripes upon those
which were variegated. She described the colour of
the binding of hooks, when shotvn to her. She wrote
in the same manner as usual, and cutfigures in papei',
as she was accustomed to do, for pastime, in her wak-
ing state. Her eyes, at this time, tvere firmly closed.
But m order to be assured that she made no use of
them, a bandage was placed over them on the approach
ofthe paroxysm.\
Another very remarkable case will be found in the
Breslau Medical Collections, and in Moritz's Mam
^me (vol. vii. p. 35). It relates to a rope-maker, who
was frequently overtaken by sleep, even in the day-time,
and m the midst of his usual occupations. While in
this state, he sometimes recommenced doing all that he
aIJ^Yu?^^
°"'g^"^"7 '-^ported by Lord Monboddo, in his
Ancient Metaphysics, and noticed in Jsis Rerclala, vol. i. p. 339, &c
.
T ihis case is also noticed in Isis Revelata, vol. i.
pp. 342, &c.
48 LECTURE I.
had been engaged in during the previous part of the
day ; at other times, he would continue the work in
which he happened to be engaged at the commencement
of the paroxysm, and finished his business with as great
ease and success as when awake. When the fit overtook
him in travelling, he proceeded on his journey, with the
same facility, and almost faster, than when awake, with-
out missing the road or stumbling over any thing. In
this manner he repeatedly went from Naumburgh to
Weimar. Upon one of these occasions, he came into a
narrow lane, where there lay some timber. He passed
over it regularly, without injury ; and with equal caution
and dexterity he avoided the horses and carriages which
came in his way. At another time, he was overtaken
by sleep, just as he was about to set out for Weimar on
horseback. He rode through the river lime, allowed his
horse to drink, and drew up his legs to prevent them
from getting wet ; then passed through several streets,
crossed the market place, which was, at that time, full
of people, carts, and booths ; and arrived in safety at
the house of an acquaintance, where he awoke. These,
and many similar facts, requiring the use of the eyes, he
perfoi-med in darkness, as well as by day-light. Eis
eyes, however, tvere firmly closed, and he could not see
when they were forced open, and stimulated by light
brought 'near them. His other senses appeared to be
equally dormant, as were his eyes. He could not smell
even the most volatile spirit. He felt nothmg when
pinched, pricked, or struck. He heard nothing when
called by his name, or even when a pistol was discharg-
ed close beside him.*
There is another case, somewhat older, observed and
circumstantially reported by a trustworthy physician, Dr
Knoll, which equally deserves our attention. The sub-
iect of his observation was a young man, a gardeneI^ who
iecame somnambuhst, and, while in that state, perfo™-
ed many extraordinary operations. He generally fe
asleep about eight o'clock in the evenmg, and then began
* See his Revdata, vol. i. pp. 331,
ON SOMNAMBULISM. 49:
to utter devotional sentences and prayers. Afterwards,
he went out of the house, clambered over a high wooden
partition and a still higher wall, uninjured, passed through
several streets, and returned. At another time, he climb-
ed up to the roof of the house, and rode astride upon the
gutter, as if upon horseback, clambered about for some
time upon the roof, and, at length, descended in safety.
With a view to prevent accidents, he was locked up in a
room, and watched. When he became somnambulist,
at the usual time, he began to perform all sorts of ope-
rations upon his clothes, and the furniture of the room.
He climbed up to the window sole, and from thence to a
stove, which was much higher and at some distance, and
rode upon the latter, as if upon a horse. The heighth of
the stove, its distance from the window, and its small
breadth, were such, that a person awake would scarcely
have ventured to attempt these operations. After de-
scending from the stove, he knocked a large table about,
hither and thither, and finding that it was likely to fall
upon himself, he very dexterously contrived to evade it.
He gathered together all the clothes he could find in the
room, mixed them together, then separated them careful-
ly, and hung them up, each article in its proper place.
The old stockings and shoes he endeavoured to arrange
in pairs, according to their shape and colour, as if he ac-
tually saw them. He laid hold of a needle, which he
had stuck into the wall some weeks before, and sewed
his small clothes. Besides these, he performed a variety
of other operations
—
all requiring light and the use of
the eyes, ivith which, it would appear, he was enabled to
dispense.*
In addition to the foregoing instances, I must here no-
tice two remarkable cases, which were both observed with
great accuracy by individuals who are elevated far above
all suspicion of credulity, deceit, and imposture. The
one is reported by the Professor and Aulic Councillor,
Feder. The subject of his observations was a stu-
* See his Eevelata, vol. i. pp. 333, (Sec.
p
60 LECTURE I.
dent, who, during a severe nervous complaint, experien-
ced several attacks of somnambulism. Upon these occa-
sions, he would go from his bed-room to his parlour and
back, open and shut the doors, as well as his closet, and
take out of the latter whatever he wanted—pieces of
music, pen, ink, and paper
—
and all this with his eyes
shut. From among his music he selected a march from
the opera Medea, laid the sheet in a proper situation,
before him, and having found the appropriate key, he
played the whole piece, with his usual skill, upon the
harpsichord. In the same manner he also played one of
Bach's Sonatas, and gave the most expressive passages
with surprising effect. One of the persons present turn-
ed the notes upside down : This he immediately perceiv-
ed, and when he recommenced playing, he replaced the
sheet in its proper position. While playing, he remark-
ed a string out of tune, upon which he stopt, put it in
order, and again proceeded. He wrote a letter to his
brother, and what he wrote was not only perfectly ra-
tional, but straight and legible. Wliile Professor Feder
was upon a visit to him one afternoon, he (the somnam-
bulist) observed that it was snowing, which was actually
the case. On the same occasion, notwithstanding his
eyes were still completely closed, he remarked that the
landlord of the opposite house was standing at the win-
dow, which was true, and that hats were hanging at the
window of another room, which was also the fact. He
opened Professor Feder's Compendium of Logic and Me-
taphysics, and pointed out to him several passages which
he thought interesting, as also some of his own written
notes of the Professor's Lectm-es in a volume which had
been recently bound. He pointed out to another of his
teachers the exact place where he had left off in his last
theological lecture. We must, however, observe the re-
markable circumstance—common to him, indeed, with
several other somnambulists—that there were many
things which he did not perceive. Thus, while writing
to his brother, he did not observe that there was no
more ink in the pen, and continued to write on. At one
ON SOMNAMBULISM. 61
time, he struck fire, and held the tinder to his eai", as if to
hear the crackhng, and thus ascertain whether it was burn-
ing.* He Hghted a match, came to the candle, and held
it in the middle of the flame.f
In conclusion, 1 may refer to the case observed by the
Archbishop of Bom-deaux, and reported in the great
French Encyclopajdia. It is the case of a young eccle-
siastic in the same seminary with the Archbishop, who
was in the habit of getting up during the night, in a state
of somnambulism, of going to his room, taking pen, ink,
and paper, and composing and writing sermons. When
he had finished one page of the paper on which he was
writing, he would read over what he had written and cor-
rect it. Upon one occasion he had made use of the expres-
sion : Ce divin enfant. In reading over the passage, he
changed the adjective divin into adorable. Perceiving,
however, that the pronoun ce could not stand before the
word adorable, he added to the former the letter t.
In order to ascertain whether the somnambulist made
any use of his eyes, the Archbishop held a piece of paste-
board under his chin, to prevent him from seeing the pa-
per upon which he was writing ; but he continued to write
on, without appearing to be incommoded in the slightest
degree. The paper upon which he was writing was ta-
ken away, and other paper laid before him ; but the som-
nambulist immediately perceived the change.
He wrote pieces of music while in this state, and in the
same manner, with his eyes closed. The words were
placed under the musical notes. It happened, upon one
occasion, that the words were written in too large a cha-
racter, and did not stand precisely under the correspond-
ing notes. He soon perceived the error, blotted out the
part, and wrote it over again with great exactness.^
* It is a curious fact, demonstrated in many instances, that som-
nambulists do not appear to become cognizant of the presence of
artificial light. Some, during their operations, are found to see
better in total darkness, than with light of any \.mi\.—( Trans )
t See also Moritz's Magazine, ii. 2, p. 83, and his Bevelata,
vol. I. p. 330.
X See his Revelata, vol, i.
p. 323, and Appendix, No. 2. For a
52 LECTURE I.
I hope that these examples, to which I might add a
great many others, will be sufficient to show that the
somnambulist, during this extraordinary state, is enabled,
apparently without the use of his eyes, to receive impres-
sions equally well, or, at least, with the same consequences
to his perceptive faculty, as when awake. "Whether
his eyes only ajjpear to be closed—whether there be de-
ception here—or whether they are really shut ; this will
be the subject of our following inquiry.
number of additional instances of the same phenomenon, see Appen-
dix to this vokime
( 53 )
LECTURE II
In my former lecture, I began to direct your attention
to those actions of the somnambulist, which, in the wak-
ing man, absolutely presuppose the use of the eyes, and
which the other, at least to appearance, performs with his
eyes completely closed. I consider this point as deserv-
ing still more serious considei'ation, because we have here
to do with an organ, with which, so far as regards its
parts and their different functions, we are intimately ac-
quainted ;
upon which certain stimuli have an operation
as peculiar as emetics on the stomach, opium on the brain,
metallic irritation on the nerves and muscles ; and which,
in many of its changes, is as independent of the will as the
motion of the heart, and the beating of the pulse ; in re-
spect to which, therefore, there can be no deception, no
influence of the imagination, still less any simulation.
In my last lecture, I adduced some examples, which
have been reported by impartial and most competent ob-
servers, philosophers, or physicians ; the result of experi-
ments which had be.en made, not upon the suggestion of
the actual moment, for the purpose of confirming any par-
ticular theory or opinion, but many of them a consider-
able time ago, and without any determinate object in
view. Persons were observed who sprang with the
greatest agility upon tables and chairs, rode, walked, or
ran long 'distances, sometimes many miles, with great
speed, frequently faster than when awake, without betray-
ing anxiety or suffering injury, and dexterously avoiding
all obstacles that lay in their way. They were seen to
mount upon garden-walls and the roofs of houses, and, in
54 LECTURE II.
such situations, to walk about with as much ease and
freedom as upon the ground. Some of them were found to
be capable of distinguishing colours—of separating and ga-
thering together pieces of clothing, and restoring each to
its proper place—of cutting figures out of paper—of
threading a needle, &c. They were seen to distinguish
other objects at a distance from them ; to open and fas-
ten locks ; to take what they wanted out of a press ; to
read the notes of pieces of music, and to play upon the
harpsichord as well as when awake ; to write letters, or
even entire tracts, with perfect correctness ; to read over
and correct what they had written ; to compose music, &c.
And, as we are assured by the observers, all these per-
sons, while performing these operations, had their eyes
comjjletely closed ; the operations were partly performed
during the darkness of night ; and when they awoke
they knew nothing of what had occurred during their
sleep. Besides the eyes, all the other senses appeared to
have been deprived of their affectability ; at least, the or-
dinary stimuli produced no such change as usually takes
place in the case of actual sensations.
I now come to the explanation of these extraordinary
phenomena : and, passing over the reveries of former
ages, I shall proceed, at once, to consider the opinions of
the most eminent psychologists and physicians of the pre-
sent century. Almost all of those authors who wrote
upon this subject before the appearance of the treatise of
G. F. Meier, (in his day a very celebrated philosopher of
Halle,) published in 1758—of whom I shall mention
only F. HoFMANN, the Baron de Swieten, M. de
Haen, and M. de Haller—almost all of these authors
were of opinion that, in somnambulism, no use was made
of the eyes, but that the organ of sight was supplied by
other means. Among these means was the imagination,
which presented the somnambulists with a faithful picture
of the way they were to traverse, and recalled to the
mind a lively impression, from former experience, of the
known locality of certain apartments, streets, roofs of
houses, &c. Besides this, the other senses, particularly
ON SOMNAMBULISM. 55
the touch, were conceived to act in place of the eyes, and
to supply all that the imagination alone was incapable of
performing. Only in one part of the sensorium com-
mune, says M. DE Haller, is there increased activity ;
all the rest is nearly in repose. Some predominant and
very lively ideas, and certain voluntary motions connect-
ed with and dependent upon them, still continue, while
every thing else is enveloped in profound sleep, which
those strong and lively ideas are incapable of interrupt-
ing. In their perambulations, they are guided by the
sense of touch, and by a strong impression of the topo-
graphy of their bed-chamber, &c. F. Hofmann look-
ed upon somnambulism as a waking dream, which is only
distinguished from a real dream by the circumstance,
that, in somnambulism, the ideas, so far as we can judge
from the actions perfonned, are better connected, possess
more unity, and that frequently the design and object cannot
be mistaken. In this case, therefore, the volition must
also be active—the mind seeks to convert the dream into
reality—the muscles obey the will, and accomplish the
object desired.
I cannot for a moment doubt, that the insufficiency of
these explanations will be obvious to every one, without
any farther analysis, and, therefore, I am unwilling to
enter into any more circumstantial inquiry concerning
them ; but shall confine myself merely to a few observa-
tions, principally with a view to a similar hypothesis, at
present most prevalent among physicians and philoso-
phers.
Let us assume that all the perceptions of the somnam-
bulist consist merely of remembrances of fonner visual
impressions, which are only distinguished from the for-
mer in so far as the imagination paints them in livelier
colours, and represents them more exactly —in short,
that the individual has before him a striking picture,
comprehending even the most minute details of his pre-
vious experience, of the way he has to go, the roof he
has to ascend, the writing he has to read, the letter he
has to write, &c—still we shall always have good rea-
36 LECTURE II.
son to ask, How comes it that the perceptions and ac-
tions always correspond so exactly at the time, and with
the external objects ? In the waking state, perceptions and
actions may always accompany each other. We can de-
tain the former, ponder over them, reproduce them, com-
pare the present with the past, and both with that which
is to follow. In this state, we can call in the assistance
of our other senses, and, in every moment, bring thought
and action tegether, dwell upon the former, or interpose
others, until the latter is accomplished. But how is all
this possible in dreaming ? Besides that, in this state,
our perceptions follow each other with extreme rapidity
—
that all the causes which retard their march, in the wak-
ing state, are here inoperative, and that they cannot for
a moment continue in harmony with our bodily motions ;
—we find, in sleep, nothing that can serve to connect them
together—nothing that can produce a continued correspon-
dence between our perceptions, the motion of our body,
and the situation of the external objects. It rather ap-
pears that something else must come into play, in order
to supply what is wanting.
But even supposing that the picture present to the
mind did correspond completely with the actions of the
somnambulist, and the position of the external objects,
and changed along with the latter, how can such an in-
dividual acquire a perception of the objects that come
between, and which cannot be created by the imagination,
of the obstructions designedly placed in his way, or oc-
curring accidentally, the representations of places where
he has never been, of the roof of a house, the top of a gar-
den wall, and other dangerous places, upon which he never
would have ventured in his waking state, and upon which,
therefore, his foot certainly never trod ? How came he
by the perception of the letters, the discourses, which he
now writes for the first time? how is he enabled to
handle objects whose situation is easily changed, and
whose change of situation requires a change of the direc-
tion of the hands ? and how can he perform so many
ON SOMNAMBULISM. 57
operations, in which the waking man necessarily requires
the use of his hands ?
In vain did some have recourse to the other senses, es-
pecially the touch, in order to supply the place of the
eye. Experience, indeed, teaches us that, upon the loss
of one sense, another frequently becomes more acute and
sensitive, particulai-ly in the case of blind persons, in
whom the touch often becomes so much invigorated, that
the individual is enabled, by its means, to recognise many
objects which, usually, can only be perceived by the eye.
Thus a great Roman virtuoso, the Cardinal d'Alba, ac-
quired such an increase of sensibility in his fingers, after
he had lost his sight, that, by means of them alone, he
could distinguish genuine antiques from artificial imita-
tions. But how does the blind person come to acquire
this faculty ? Assuredly, only in consequence of long
practice and comparison. It is only in this way that he
could ultimately arrive at such a delicacy of touch, that
the same object which impressed upon the retina the re-
presentation of a particular form or colour, should now
make a determinate impression upon the points of his fin-
gers. In consequence of repeated attempts, and greatly
concentrated attention, (which, unimpeded by the vari-
ous impressions made upon the eye, is directed especially
to those of the touch,) the mind is, at length, enabled to
distinguish even the most delicate impressions made upon
this sense, which, otherwise, would not have been per-
ceived at all.
But can any application of these facts be made to the
phenomena presented by the somnambulists of whom we
have just spoken ? These phenomena have an entirely
different character. In the case of the somnambulist,
do we find a comparison between the sensation of sight
and touch ? Is he assisted by habitual practice ? Does
he not conduct himself as perfectly in his first sleep as
in his tenth ? Are not all his actions performed as rapidly
and with the same facility and skill as when awake ? No
—if we properly and impartially analyse and compare the
phenomena presented by the blind man and by the som-
58 LECTURE II.
nambulist, we shall be compelled to admit that they re-
sult from quite different causes.
But there are some observations, which we have all
had an opportunity of making in early life, which com-
pletely demolish this theory of our older physicians and
philosophers. We may all recollect the well-known
childish game of blind-man's-buff—how difficult we found
it to advance a few steps forward in a straight direction,
when our eyes were completely closed. We may repeat this
experiment every day of our lives. Even in a room with
which we are perfectly well acquainted, and with the
most strenuous efforts to represent its whole localities, we
shall find how speedily we become afraid of losing the
straight direction ! and to prevent this, we sometimes ad-
vance a foot to the right or to the left, in order to re-in-
force our centre of gravity, and sometimes, before we are
aware, we diverge from the straight line, which we had
intended to preserve. If we continue this exercise for
some time, we become giddy, begin to totter, and are
soon compelled to abandon our eflForts.
I doubt not that the foregoing observations are quite
sufficient to show the unsatisfactory nature of the hypo-
thesis we have been considering, upon which I have pro-
bably dwelt longer than necessary, partly for the reasons
already given, and also because it has been entertained
by such respectable men. It is, therefore, not to be won-
dered at, that later inquirers, if unwilling to confess their
ignorance—and how could we expect such a confession,
especially from the philosophers of the Wolfian school ?
should look round for some other explanation, which
might prove more satisfactory to the inquisitive mind.
Whether they have found such an explanation, and, if so,
whether this acquisition has not been made at the expense
of the facts—and whether we can hope to gain more
from such an explanation, than from the foi-mer, which
left the facts entire ;—of this every one, who seeks to at-
tain the truth, may judge for himself. But I shall now
proceed to the examination of this new hypothesis.
According to this theory, also, the imagination predo-
ON SOMNAMBULISM. 59
minates in the somnambulist ; and the phenomena he pre-
sents are, for the most part, the expression of a hvely
dream, distinguished, however, from the common dream
by its greater regularity, connection, and determinate ob-
ject ; but his motions are not entirely the result of these
phantasms, but also of intermingled sensations. He sees,
feels, and hears with sufficient acuteness, and naoves his
body voluntarily, in a manner corresponding with these
sensible impressions, and the position of the external ob-
jects. But these impressions are not sufficiently lively to
enable him to distinguish between them and the creations
of his imagination and fancy.
With very few exceptions, almost all the later physio-
logists and psychologists have followed the above-men-
tioned philosopher of Halle, in considering somnambu-
lism as a middle state between waking and dreaming, in
which the individual is not, as in sleep, entirely deprived
of the sensation of external objects, but has still some
perception of the things which surround him. He con-
tinues to acquire from without a number of perceptions
through the medium of his senses, and regulates his con-
duct, less or more, according to them ;
although the im-
agination also has no small influence over him, and mo-
difies the external sensations. This, or a similar opinion,
was held by the Aulic Councillors Feder and Meiners ;
by M. PocKELS, one of the editors of the Magazine for
empirical psychology ; by two later writers who have
handled the theory of somnambulism,—NuDOW and
Davidson; and by an ingenious English author, Dar-
win—who, however, has given a distinctive form to his
hypothesis ;—for which reason, I shall devote some more
particular attention to it in the sequel. In the main cir-
cumstances, however, Darwin coincides with the other
authors above-named, especially in holding that the ac-
tions of the somnambulist are regulated by the influence
of external objects upon his senses.
On the other hand, there are also eminent men, to
whom this explanation was not satisfactory. Thus, the
ingenious author of the periodical work, entitled The
60 LECTURE II.
Physician,* maintains, that the somnambulist still con^
tinues a stumbling-block to the true philosopher of the
human mind, that, notwithstanding all the explanations
hitherto given, his actions are still miracles for us, and
that we can with difficulty persuade ourselves that they
have actually performed the operations which are related
of them. He maintains expressly that, during this state,
all the external senses, including the eye, are domant
;
but he does not venture to give any explanation of his
own. In one of my journeys, I had also the pleasure of
conversing, upon this subject, with one of the most emi-
nent philosophers and physicians of Germany. This
honourable and ti'uth-loving man, whose knowledge of
natui'e is not derived merely from books, and dogmatically
propounded ex cathedra, but who has investigated her
most minute phenomena,—this eminent person acknow-
ledged to me his dissatisfaction with all the explanations
of somnambulism, and especially of the various opera-
tions which sonanambulists perfonn with their eyes
closed.
But in a matter of such importance as this, we ought
not to permit authorities to determine our judgment, but
to institute a close and sifting investigation of the facts,
and to weigh well the reasons which influence our opinion.
Before we proceed farther, then, let us examine a little
more narrowly the phenomena of sleep itself—of which
somnambulism is merely a modification—in its relation
to the condition of the eye and its susceptibility of visual
impressions diu-ing sleep, and also to the perceptive fa-
culty of the soul.
At the commencement of the natural sleep, the atten-
tion is first withdi-awn from the sensations of sight; our
eyes become confused ; the eye-lids become heavy, and
close involuntarily ;
although we are still able to speak,
to hear, and to move our hands and feet. On awaking
out of a natural and refreshing sleep, all the above-men-
tioned phenomena occur, but in an inverted order ; and
it is only when we open our eyes, that we again become
" Dr Unzer.
ON' SOMNAMBULISM. 61
completely conscious and awake. In sleep itself, all ex-
ternal sensations cease, as well as all the influence of the
mind over the involuntary muscles. This portion of
the nervous system becomes dormant. Both the sensitive
organs and the muscles are deprived of that principle
which is the cause of sensation and motion, and which
connects the senses and the limbs with the mental organ.
There is a want of this power, and not merely, according
to a very recent philosopher, of the attention of the mind.
By exertion, indeed, we may retard sleep ; but the in-
stant it comes upon us, in spite of our continued efforts,
our sensations are less delicate, our sight less correct, our
hearing less acute, than when fully awake ; nor can we
move our body, even when we wish it, so easily as before.
There is, therefore, at the commencement of sleep, not
merely diminished activity of the mental organ, and en-
feebled attention ; but also diminished power of sensation,
and of the activity of the voluntary muscles.
When the sleep is profound, the previous excitability
of the nerves by the usual stimuli appears to be com-
pletely abolished. The ear is no longer susceptible of
the usual impressions of sound, the olfactory nerves not
even of the more powerful smells ; and the eye, even
were it open, would not be affected by the light reflected
by external objects, which, otherwise, renders them vi-
sible. At least, there are animals—such for example as
the hare—which never close their eyes when asleep ; and
instances are not awanting of men who are found sleep-
ing with their eyes open.
The senses of sight and hearing, however, evidently
perform the principal parts in sleep, and the act of awak-
ing depends as essentially upon the renewed sensibility of
these organs, as sleep does on the contrary condition. At
the commencement, and in the middle of sleep, when the
sensorial power of the nerves of sensation has not yet be-
come renovated, a more powerful stimulus is required, in
order to excite the eye and the ear. Towards the end of
sleep, a fainter light or sound is perceived, is communi-
cated to the mental organ, reaches the consciousness
62 LECTURE II.
and this is the moment of awaking. Moreover, of all the
sensitive perceptions, there is none so incompatible with
the natural sleep as those acquired through the medium
of the eye—this principal entrance to the seat of the soul.
Through this oi-gan, we receive the greatest number, and
the liveliest of our perceptions. With these, our other
ideas and motions are too multifariously associated, than
that they should not be excited by them, which must
have the immediate consequence of inducing wake-
fulness. For this reason, probably, nature has provided
that in man, as well as in the other mammalia, no ray
of light should penetrate, during sleep, into the interior
of the eye. For this reason, too, the closing of the eye-
lids is intimately connected with the diminishing sensibi-
lity of the optic nerves, and their opening again follows
upon the renewed activity of the latter. The state and
condition of the eye-Uds, therefore, is always the princi-
pal criterion by which we judge of the drowsiness, or
actual sleep, of an individual.
Permit me now to apply these well-known phenomena
of the natural sleep to the state of the eyes in somnam-
bulism. The common somnambulism is merely a pecu-
liar occurrence during sleep. The latter is never inter-
rupted by the former. An individual is never placed in
somnambulism directly out of the waking state. He is
first affected, for a longer or shorter period, by an ordi-
nary sleep ; and the somnambulist, when he has run
through the circle of his operations, again returns to his
bed, and sleeps naturally, until his usual time of awaking.
Here, indeed, a violent awakening makes an exception.
But here, too, as in the immediate transition from som-
nambulism to the waking state, if this should sometimes
happen, we shall perceive similar feelings, similar emo-
tion and surprise, as in the case of the usual awakmg.
Somnambulism, moreover, so far from being capable
of being compared with what has been called a hal^-sleep
—is, in several respects, a more profound state of sleep,
seeing that individuals can with much more difficulty be
aroused out of it, than out of a common sleep ;
and that,
ON SOMNAMBULISM. 63
afterwards, they never, or, at least, very seldom remember
those actions which they performed while under its influ-
ence.
In conformity with these undeniable facts, we must ad-
mit, until convinced of the contrary by other cogent rea-
sons, that the above-mentioned essential requisites of the
natural sleep also occur in the state of somnambulism ;
that the senses remain unaffected by external stimuli ; at
least, that these are not transmitted to the mind, and per-
ceived as such. This applies in a preeminent degree to
the eye, which nature, by the strong protection with
which she has provided it in the eye-lids, has so carefully
secured from all external stiinuli by which it might other-
wise be affected.
But have we not probable grounds for believing that,
in somnambidism, the mind receives sensible impressions,
and is thus placed in a situation to perform those opera-
tions which are otherwise incomprehensible ? Here we
evidently see activity in a part of the system which usually
sleeps. The connection between the mind and the vo-
luntary muscles, which, otherwise, is always obstructed,
is here found to be restored, and the latter become obe-
dient to the will, often with a more lively activity and
greater freedom than in the waking state. Mental per-
ceptions, which, in ordinary dreams, are irregular and
confused, and composed of heterogeneous materials, are
here, it would appear, so far as relates to their connec-
tion, as consistent with truth and order, as in the waking
state. One or other of the senses, as is sufficiently clear
from other observations, must occasionally be awake in
the somnambulist ;
why should not, therefore, during the
sleep of the other senses, the sensibility of the eye be
sometimes restored, the optic nerve again become awake,
and, by this means, perceptions of sight be transmitted
to the inind, without the other parts of the system being,
on this account, disturbed in their repose ? Is it not,
then, more than probable that these patients either have
their eyes not completely closed—there being a small
opening left, sufficient to permit as much light to pass as
64 LECTURE II.
is necessary to convey visual impressions to the mind, or
the eye opens at times, in order that the mind may receive
the impressions which are necessary for the perfonnance
of her external operations.
Let us examine these notions a little more narrowly.
In the first place, you will doubtless agree with me that
this is reasoning, and not observation—not even reason-
ing from professed observation. For the foundation of
such an hypothesis lies only in the jjossihiliti) that other
parts, which usually repose during sleep, or exhibit an ir-
regular activity, are in the same condition in the som-
nambulists, as in the waking state ; and because, if this
were not assumed in regard to the eye, many of their ac-
tions would be incapable of explanation. Of the correct-
ness of such reasoning I am unwilling to say anything
farther ; all sound logic, I conceive, has already pro-
nounced a decided judgment upon it.
But we shall admit, for a moment, that an inexplicable
opening of the eyes does take place in the somnambu-
list, and see what assistance this circumstance would af-
ford him in his peregrinations. It is well known that it
is only through the pupil that the rays of light penetrate
into the interior of the eye, and can affect the optic nerve.
All other rays falling upon the eye are absorbed or re-
fracted. In order, therefore, to enable the mind to re-
ceive visual impressions from surrounding objects, the
pupil must not be covered by the eye-lids. The greater
the part which is left uncovered, the larger is the hori-
zon, and—which must be well considered—the more dis-
tinct ;
and, vice versa, this horizon becomes more limited
and more obscure, the more the pupil is covered. When
the eye-Hds are nearly closed, we see only the small circle
which more immediately surrounds us, and even this, m
consequence of the small quantity of light which can en-
ter the eye, only faintly illuminated ;
and this circle va-
nishes whenever the eye-lids become united. But the
somnambulist requires visual perceptions of distant as well
as of near objects ; he requires, in those perilous opera-
tions which he performs with such ease and rapidity—
m
ON SOMNAMBULISM. 65
his running, leaping, dancing, climbing, &c. rather stronger
and more lively perceptions than usual ; he cannot be
satisfied with the aspect of that which is nearest to him ;
but, for his security, it is necessary that he should have
a view of things farther away from him ; which the hy-
pothesis of a small part of the pupil only being uncovered
does not afford him. Add to this, that these perambu-
lations are undertaken chiefly during the night, not only
in moon-light, but in complete darkness, in the absence
of all stimulus which could produce visual perceptions,
or when such stimulus exists in a very small degree ;
when light and shade are awanting ; and, therefore, an
individual would require a complete and continued open-
ing of the eye, and the whole field of vision must be ex-
posed, in order to receive undivided all the little light re-
flected from the objects. It is impossible that such a
small, imperceptible opening of the eye-lids, as that sup-
posed to occur in somnambulists, could be sufficient to
regulate his actions, if he were directed by visual percep-
tions of external objects, or to explain the smallest part
of his actions. He must, therefore, possess other resom-ces ;
and then the principal of these might be imagined to con-
sist in the imperceptible, but complete opening of the eye
from time to time.
But upon analysing this hypothesis also, we shall soon
perceive how little it suflicesto explain the actions of the
somnambulist. Granting that the somnambulist usually
has his eyes shut, but occasionally opens them ; this must
be produced by an act of volition. Should this some-
times occur by chance, this would be without use or ob-
ject to the somnambulist, who, perhaps, might receive vi-
sual impressions when he had no need of them, and be
deprived of them when most necessary to him. Should
this act be at times occasioned by some external impulse,
by an impression made by external objects upon the eye,'
we shall here be compelled to presuppose something which
does not yet exist—a more or less open eye ; for it might
frequently happen that a number of sensible impressions
might be made upon the retina, which, when perceived,
E
G6 LECTUnE II.
would not convey to the mind those impressions which
were most necessary to it, but others of a nature altoge-
ther foreign. This frequent opening and shutting of the
eye-lids, however, must be accomplished by an act of
mental volition. And here, it may be asked with great
propriety : If the will possesses such a command over
the eye, why does it not always remain open ? And as
this last is not the case, what is it that induces the som-
nambulist to open his eyes occasionally, and then to shut
them again ? No one certainly will find any other reason
than this, that the individual requires the use of his eyes
at the particular moment. But whence comes this feel-
ing of necessity ? No other natural reason can easily be
assigned but this : The individual stumbles upon some-
thing in his way ; he finds an impediment to some parti-
cular exertion of his activity, which he cannot surmount
without seeing the object. But if we impartially examine
the actions of the somnambulist, we shall perceive nothing
of the kind. He is never observed to hesitate in his pro-
gress, to meet with diflSiculties, or to rectify his proceed-
ings. No—^he conducts himself, and continually acts,
just as he would do if he possessed the complete use of his
eyes.
Let us here make a farther application of the align-
ments I formerly adduced against the hypothesis of Hof-
MANN and Haller, in regard to the insuperable difii-
culties we shall encounter, were we to consider the som-
nambulist as a mere dreamer, and you will be forced to
agree with me, that such an individual continually re-
quires the use of his eyes ;
that, in his rapid movements,
in his perilous undertakings, amidst the obstacles he un-
expectedly meets with and dexterously evades, in his per-
ambulations on new and dangerous paths, he can, at no
moment, dispense with it. He could not otherwise pro-
ceed with such a firm and assured step ;
he could not
possess such complete knowledge of the particular spot
where he is at any time placed, and this spot would not
correspond so exactly with his perceptions. Moreover,
recall to your minds what I have already said upon the
ON SOMNAMBULISM. 67
natui'e of sleep, and the condition of the eye in that state :
Would this sleep continue, if the eye were so frequently
opened, and the present train of perceptions so often in-
terrupted by the ideas suggested by new stimuli ? The
perceptions we acquire by means of the eye are associated
with too many other perceptions, than that, if new ob-
jects wei'e continually presented to the mind by this sense,
the current of ideas should not be interrupted, and the
individual awake. That, in this case, only such percep-
tions reach the consciousness as are comprehended in the
train of ideas with which the mind is occupied at the time,
may, indeed, be asserted ; but this asseiiion is supported
by no rational argmnent ; and I hope to meet this eva-
sion in my next lecture, in which I propose to analyse the
hypothesis of Darwin.
But all we have hitherto said, upon this subject, ap-
pears superfluous, if we contemplate nature herself. The
eyes of those somnambulists, with whose history I for-
merly made you acquainted, were not half-open, as the ob-
servers unanimously declare, but firmly closed. It is en-
tirely an arbitrary and gratuitous supposition, unconfirmed
by any experience, that the somnambuHst occasionally
opens and then shuts his eyes. No—his sensitive organs
are not so inconstant—there is no such alternate flow and
interruption of the vital power in the organs—the con-
nection of the mind with one part of the organism is not
thus suddenly broken ofiF, and then renewed. When one
sense is once awake in a somnambulist, it continues in
the same state during the whole period of the afi"ection ;
when certain muscles are once dormant, or in a state of
inactivity, they continue to be so ; when the eye of the
somnambulist is open—a circumstance which sometimes
occurs, and of which I shall have more to say in the se-
quel—it continues open ; when closed, it continues closed.
The same muscles of the eye-lids, which keep them open
or shut, are constantly exerting their influence, indeed, in
a spasmodic manner, and cannot thus be alternately ex-
erting and relaxing their force, and are not thus subjected
to the capnce of the will. But then, among the exam-
68 LECTURE II.
pies formerly given, I have noticed one, where the eyes
of the somnambulist were firmly bandaged, and, notwith-
standing, the distinguishing of colours, and the cutting
of paper, were performed with the same facility as in the
normal state ; and another, where, although a pasteboard
cover was held immediately before the closed eyes, the
somnambulist continued to write on as well as previously.
But we must not leave a single doubt remaining ; and
I hope that none will exist, when I shall have proved to
your satisfaction that the eye of the somnambulist is
wholly insensible ;
that, in him, the condition of the eye,
and the inactivity of the optic nerve, are the same as in
an individual affected with amaurosis.
( 69 )
LECTURE III
When we examine the eyes of somnambulists, we find
them either completely closed, as the eyes of those per-
sons whose histories I used as the ground-work of my
inquiry ; or they are completely open, and then larger
and more open than in the waking state. There is no
medium ; and if, as may have occasionally happened, es-
pecially in the case of artificial somnambulists, we per-
ceive the one or the other eye somewhat open, still we
see nothing but the white of the eye ; the coloured part,
and still more the pupil, is quite concealed under the up-
per eye-lid. Such an occasional opening of the eye is an
extraordinary phenomenon to the physician. In spas-
modic diseases, especially when the brain is affected, and
consciousness is dormant—towards the close of life, when
profound, unnatural slumber, convulsive motions, and
calm delirium are perceived, the half-open eye is fre-
quently observed. It is also remarked in the sleep of
many children—especially such as are afflicted with
worms.
If we examine the eyes of those artificial somnambu-
lists whose eye-lids are closed—and this I have repeat-
edly done in the presence of perfectly unsuspicious wit-
nesses, of whom I shall mention a well-known author,
M. Spazier, who has publicly acknowledged the truth of
what I am now about to relate—if we examine the eyes
of these persons, the following circumstances, well de-
servmg our consideration, will appear. If we attempt
to draw their eye-lids asunder, we meet with resistance.
Ihe antagonist muscles of those which usually keep the
eyes open act strongly in opposition to our efforts, and
70 LECTURE III.
the lattei* are at rest. The former appear to be in a
state of spasm, and the latter as if paralysed. The eye
can be opened only to the extent of one-half. When
this takes place, the apple of the eye is perceived to be
turned upwards towards the internal angle, and we see
only the margin of the iris peeping from under the up-
per eye-lid, and remaining immovable in the same place.
The approach of light to the eye does not occasion the
slightest change. There is no winking of the eye-lids,
no expression of feeling, when the light is brought ever
so near to the half-opened eye. These experiments I
have frequently made upon several of my magnetic pa-
tients, always with the same result ; and I have always
repeated them, when I had an opportunity of showing
them to strangers.
But I trust you will excuse me if, in explaining this
matter, I have taken the liberty of referring to some of
my own experiments ; as I should wish my inquiiy to
be entirely independent of them. I trust you will imme-
diately perceive, that there are several observations of
others, which prove the point I wish to establish still
more cogently than the experiments in question. One
of these observations I have already noticed in my first
lecture. I told you the story of a rope-maker, who tra-
velled many miles of road in his sleep, sometimes on
foot, and sometimes on horseback. He went boldly for-
ward every where, in the dark or in day-hght, and, in all
his operations, conducted himself like a waking person.
This man felt nothing when his skin was ever so much
stimulated, when strong-smeUing substances were held
to his nose, or when a pistol was discharged close beside
him. His eyes were constantly shut, but the eye-lids
could be drawn asunder, his eye opened, a brilliant light
held to it, without his exhibiting the slightest sj-mptom
of feeling. The well known somnambulist of Vicenza
(Negretti), whose history has been repeated in almost
all the later writings upon this subject, who was long
and carefully observed, who went about and performed
all his usual domestic duties, gave, as it were, a theatn-
ON SOMNAMBULISM. 71
cal representation of several parts of his service, and all
this without committing any mistake, and with the same
ease and readiness as a waking man with the complete
use of his eyes ;—this individual also exhibited no sign
of sensibility when a candle was brought so close to his
eye, that his eye-brows were singed by it.
The insensibility of the eyes, however, is most re-
markably shown by those somnambulists who perform
their various operations with their eyes wide open. In
these persons, too, this organ is in a state the best adapt-
ed for examination, as, in them, it is generally large, fix-
ed, and immovable ;
and, consequently, any changes which
may take place in it can easily be observed. I have so
much the more satisfaction, too, in adducing cases of such
somnambulists, because they enable me to supply the de-
ficiency of my inquiry, arising from the spasmodic state
of the eye-lids in the cases fonnerly referred to. All
those physicians, who have themselves examined the eyes
of somnambuhsts, admit, so far as I am aware, that the
organ, in the state in question, is exactly as I have above
described it. " All somnambulists," says Van Swieten,
" whom I have seen, had their eyes wide open, and a very
large aperture"of the pupil, as is usual in the case of amau-
rosis. This aperture did not contract on the approach
of light, nor did the eye-lids wink, but remained quite
motionless. When they were forcibly awakened, how-
ever, the eyes immediately closed, and they felt the in-
convenience of the light when brought near them."*
* Cormnent. in Boerlmav. ApJiorisin, T, iii. v. 1086.
Gerard van Swieten, one of the most celebrated disciples of
BoERHAAVE, and most learned pathologists of the last century, was
bom at Leyden in the year 1700. He studied humanity at the
university of his native town, and pliilosophy at Louvain ; and he
then returned to Leyden for the purpose of studying medicine un-
der BoERHAAVE, whosc friendship he obtained. He afterwards be-
came physician to Maria Theresa of Austria, in 1745 ; and distin-
guished himself by founding and greatly improving the medical
schools of Vienna, which he brought to a high degree of repute.
His Commentaries on the Aphorisms of Boerhaave display a vast
erudition in practical medicine, and have been frequently reprint-
72 LECTURE III,
Another very exact and trustworthy observer, M. de
HaEN, has given us an account of the disease of a
young girl, who had frequent fits of catalepsy, which
soon passed into paroxysms exhibiting the principal cha-
racteristics of somnambulism, during which her eyes were
wide open. He caused a light to be brought near them,
which, however, produced neither a contraction of the
pupil, nor any other marks of sensibility. As little ef-
fect was manifested when strong stimulants were applied
to her skin, when she was pricked with a needle, &c.*
A very recent author, Ellert, has described, in a
small publication, the history of a severe nervous dis-
order, in which the lady who was afflicted with it, after
suffering very violent spasmodic attacks of various kinds,
fell into extraordinary paroxysms, which, as M. Ellert
expresses it, presented a middle state between ecstasis
and somnambulism. In this state, in which she used to
conduct herself, in many respects, like a person awake
—
spoke, related stories, sometimes scolded, sometimes con-
tradicted, sometimes appeared anxious, sometimes cheer-
ful—none of her senses manifested any sensibility. Her
eyes, indeed, were open and brilliant, but fixed and mo-
tionless ; and the aperture of the pupil was very large.
She might be called by her name, pinched, pricked ;
spirit of hartshorn might be applied to her nose—a burn-
ing candle held before her eyes ; and however sudden
ed ; and he is the author of several other learned works. __As a
teacher he was remarkably distinguished. He died in 1772.
—
(Trans.)
* De Haen ; Ratio Medendi, p. iv. c. v. § 3. Anthony de
Haen was born at the Hague, in 1704, studied medicine under
BoERHAAVE, and became a distinguished pupil of that gi-eat mas-
For twenty years he practised medicine in his native to^ra. In
1754 he was invited to Vienna by Van Swieten, and was apponit-
ed principal Professor of Practical Medicine in that city Crowds
of students attended his clinical lectures. Upon the death of Van
Swieten, he was appointed principal Ph.ysician to the Court, and
acquired immense reputation in his profession. As a physician, he
was particularly distinguished by his great acute_ness of observation.
He published a number of works, and died in \ 77l3.—(Trans.J
ON SOMNAMBULISM. 73
and unexpected the stimulus might be, she did not mani-
fest the slightest symptom of feeling.
I cannot avoid adding a highly interesting investiga-
tion of this subject, which will be found in the Memoirs
of the Parisian,* and also in those of the Upsal Aca-
demy of Sciences, and which was transmitted to these
academies by Sauvages de la Croix, who originally
observed the case, in the year 1741. It relates to a
young lady, who, dm-ing a severe nervous complaint,
after similar convulsive attacks, fell into similar parox-
ysms to those above-mentioned, during which, however,
she walked about the sick room. Like the former pa-
tient, she had her eyes wide open, which, in other re-
spects, appeared to be quite insensible. Sauvages, who
suspected deception, made use of several means of ascer-
taining the truth. He caused her arm to be deeply
pricked with a needle, the soles of her feet to be gently
tickled with the points of the fingers—poured spirit of
hartshorn into her mouth, held it to her nostrils, and
blew Spanish snuff up her nose. He caused her to be
addressed unexpectedly in a loud voice. A person, who
had been concealed, suddenly uttered a piercing cry close
to her ear, and, at another time, he suddenly threw a
stone violently against her bed-stead. But all this pro-
duced, in this otherwise so excitable person, not the
slightest mark of feeling, and occasioned no motion. The
attempts, too, made by Sauvages, to produce some ef-
fects upon her eyes, were quite as ineifectual. In vain
did he, unexpectedly, aim a blow at her with his hand :
She made no effort to evade it, nor did she interrupt her
discourse ; and the eye-Uds did not move in the slightest
degree. He held spirit of hartshorn before her eye ;
moistened a feather with it, and applied it to the cornea ;
suddenly touched one of the eye-balls with his finger';
nay, at last, he held a lighted candle so close to her
open eye that her eye-lashes were burnt. During this
msensibility of her eyes, she rose from her bed, walked
about the room, kept the middle way between the bed-
* 1742, Ed. 4, p. 409.—Ed. B, p. 551.
74 LECTURE III.
steads, as well as she could have done when awake, turn-
ed round at the proper time, did not once stumble against
any thing, although several things were placed in her
way ; and all this she did without touching the objects.
These experiments and observations were repeated at
various times, and in presence of several competent wit-
nesses.
After all these experiments, instituted by skilful and
trustworthy men, with such similar results, to which I
know not a single case that can be opposed, which could
lead us to suspect any thing of a contrary nature, but to
which, if necessary, I could add much from my own ex-
perience ; after all this, I say, it surely cannot be denied
that the eye of the somnambulist is not only incapable of
receiving the usual impressions from light, and its trans-
mission to the sensorium commune, but also that its prin-
cipal functions are temporarily abolished. But if any one
relying upon the hypothesis of Darwin—of which I
shall have more to say presently—could or would op-
pose any objection to this conclusion ; it is hoped, at least,
that nobody will now venture to argue from the circum-
stance of the eyes being open in some somnambulists, to
the use and continued functions of this organ ; and it is
manifestly quite clear from our previous investigation,
that sensibility is withdrawn from them for the time, and
that the power of volition does not affect its appropriate
muscles.
But if—from the circumstance that, in some somnam-
bulists, either for a continuance, or during certain periods
of this state, the eyes are open—any person were to al-
low himself to draw the conclusion, that those among
them who walk about with their eyes closed, opened them
frequently, at tunes, in order that they might receive the
usual visual sensations—and of such a conclusion more
than one respectable philosopher have been guilty ;
this
would either imply an ignorance of all those cases I have
adduced, which ought not to be disposed of in so simi-
mary a manner ; or it would exhibit an error m logic
ON SOMNAMBULISM. 75
which could only be excused by thoughtlessness, or com-
mitted from a spirit of cavilling and obstinate self-conceit.
I do not conceive that any even plausible argument
could be opposed to my previous reasoning, unless it be
the hypothesis regarding somnambulism which Darv?in
has brought forward in several passages of his Zoonomia.
He assumes, namely, that the nerves of sensation are
equally lively and susceptible of irritation in the state of
sleep, as when we are awake ; but that they are secluded
from stimulating objects, or rendered unfit to receive
them. In somnambulism, according to this hypothesis,
the immediate organs of sense are exposed to their usual
stimuli ; but are either not excited into action at all, or
not into so great action as to produce attention or sensa-
tion. The prevailing train of ideas, and concomitant ef-
forts of the will, which both absorb and occupy the whole
power of the mind, prevent it from attending to the in-
fluence of external stimuli. Therefore, no sensible im-
pression is permanent, and no perception follows upon it.
It is only when the impression accidentally happens to
harmonise with the train of ideas which is present to the
mind at the time, and mingles with it, that it is perceived.
The perception thus arising, however, does not interrupt
the previous train of ideas ; no new train ensues ; on the
contrary, the individual finds himself capable, by means
of the external perceptions, of continuing, and even of
rectifying the previous course of his ideas. For this rea-
son, we need not be surprised to find that, frequently,
even very powerful stimuli, which, at other times, would
place the organ in a state of very violent agitation, are
not at all remarked ; while weak impressions, lying within
the circle of the somnambulist, are immediately per-
ceived.
What appears to confirm the theory of this ingenious
author is the not uncommon phenomenon of individuals,
who are so abstracted, in consequence of the powerful ef-
fect with which they pursue a particular train of ideas,
that they do not become aware of many other sensible
impressions, or are capable of suppressing them. To
76 LECTURE lii.
what an extent this may happen in individuals, especially
in the case of learned men, we know from too many ex-
amples to render it necessary to refer to any single in-
stance. And how much some individuals, when their at-
tention is deeply fixed upon a certain train of ideas, are
capable of withdrawing their thoughts from sensible im^*
pressions, requires no proof, because history has made us
sufficiently acquainted with the fact ; and I need only
recall to your recollection the anecdote of the Roman cri-
minal, who endured the highest degree of the punishment
of the rack without exhibiting any impression of pain, by
merely repeating a certain word, which, as he afterwards
confessed, produced in him a lively idea of the gallows.
But still more apparently favoui-able to the Darwinian
hypothesis is the observation, that the somnambulist is
conscious of some sensible impressions, but not of others ;
that he observes very distinctly many objects which lie
within the sphere of his vision, but does not perceive
others which are in the same situation. And we find,
not unfrequently, that the sensations of which he is con-
scious are nearly allied to those, with which, according
to his own expressions, he is occupied at the moment, or
to which the latter might easily conduct him. We can
peruse scarcely a single account of a true somnambulist,
without meeting with something of this kind. In my first
lecture, I have noticed a remarkable instance of this in
the history of the young student observed by Professor
Feder, to which others might easily be added.
But, as I conceive, we may reasonably object to the
Darwinian hypothesis, that the author was not sufficiently
acquainted with the state he attempted to describe, and
that he represents the phenomenon in a different aspect
from that in which it usually manifests itself in nature.
This author founds his ai-guments upon only two cases
observed by himself, and adds to them that M'hich is re-
lated in the French Encyclopaedia, which I have noticed
at greater length, in my first lecture—the case of the
young theologian observed by the Archbishop of Bour-
deaux. But in respect to the main circumstances, with
ON SOMNAMBULISM. 77
which we are chiefly concerned at present, this last case
is completely misrepresented. Darwin makes the young
theologian occasionally open his eyes for a short time,
for the purpose of discovering his own situation, and the
position of his ink-stand, and then shut them again. This
circumstance would here be, indeed, very conclusive.
But, unfortunately, the story itself mentions nothing of
the kind, while, on the contrary, the commentators upon
it expressly maintain the reverse. Moreover, the English
philosopher seems to be totally unacquainted with the va-
rious other cases of somnambulists, for which we are in-
debted especially to the physicians and philosophers of
Germany, For this reason, indeed, we might set this
hypothesis wholly aside, because it does not, in the slight-
est degree, weaken what has been hitherto said, and af-
fords no explanation of those cases upon which my en-
quiry proceeds. But I am anxious to remove all doubt,
and cannot, therefore, overlook a theory which is quite
new, which has been propounded by a deep-thinking man,
and carries with it no little plausibility and appearance of
truth. Besides, what I have to say upon it may tend to
confirm, and place in a clearer light, many of the obser-
vations made in my last lecture.
I might have a good many objections to make to the
proposition from which the Darwinian hypothesis sets
out, and upon which it is founded, viz. that, during sleep,
the nerves of sensation are as lively, and as susceptible
of external stimuli, as in the waking state. I might
show that this is a mere opinion of the author—that the
arguments in favour of it are very far from beino- con-
clusive—that in the experiments by which it is supported
there was probably illusion ; and I might appeal to the
most eminent recent as well as older physiologists I
might prove the contrary from the very nature of sleep
from the phenomena by which it is accompanied, from
the manifest decrease of the activity of all the functions
from the causes which promote and prevent sleep ;_but
all this would carry me too far away from my principal
object. I must, therefore, refer you here to what I have
78 LECTURE III,
already said upon this subject, in my second lecture, and,
in other respects, confine myself to the state of the or-
gans in question, and especially of the eye, as it is found
in somnambulists.
From the cases foi-merly adduced you must have seen,
that, during somnambuhsm, the whole visual organ has
undergone a complete change, which makes it quite a
different thing from what it was during the waking state.
The machine seems to stand still, and the motion of its
parts appears to be obstructed, so that they are incapable
of being affected either from without or from within.
And, in this state, can the sensibihty of the nerve, ne-
vertheless, continue—cau this organ still contmue to
perfoi-m its usual functions ? Impossible ! The entire
condition of the eye, as it manifests itself to the sight,
makes it but too probable that it is, in every respect, at
rest, and that it cannot renew any of its functions, until
all its wheels are again set in motion.
But here we will not rest satisfied with conjectures
and probabilities, but rather, as fai- as is possible, endea-
vour to approach nearer to certainty. Let us, for the
present, assume that the optic nerve retains its sensibi-
lity during sleep, as also in somnambuhsm, and then see
if this assumption can be reconciled with the observed
phenomena. i
From the result of the cases formerly noticed, it ap-
peared that, in sorhnambulism, the iris was immovable,
and continued m that state, whether light fell upon the
eve, or not—whether there were much or little light.
It seemed to be in a state of complete inactivity, and, m
the strongest light, appeared the same as if no stimuhis
were present. But the rest and motion of the irii; or
the contraction and dilatation of the pupil, does m no
degree depend upon our mental volition, nor upon the
light which may happen to fall upon the external part of
the eye, but only upon that which peuctrates to the re-
tinccind stimulates the optic nerve. This s^umdus then
reacts upon the iris, causing it to dilate, and the pupil to
contract ; and this in proportion to the quantity of light
ON SOMNAMBULISM. 79
which has penetrated into the eye. The retina and the
iris are so intimately connected, that when the latter re-
mains immovable by the action of light, we may assume
the insensibiUty of the former
—
i. e. blindness—although
not always vice versa,—provided there be no organic
defect in the iris. All poisons which act upon the eye,
and destroy the sensibility of the optic nerve, also im-
pede, according to the extent of this pi-ivation, the mo-
bility of the iris. A moderate dose of belladonna has
this eifect, and such a dose of opium as shall produce a
more profound sleep. When, in the course of a disease,
the optic nerve is mediately or immediately aflPected, and
the eye becomes insensible to visual impressions, we find,
in the same proportion, immobility of the pupil. Amau-
rosis, when complete, is, in the opinion of some physi-
cians, always, according to others, in most cases, accom-
panied by the same symptoms. In fainting fits, profound
sleep, severe apoplexy, hydrocephalus, and in dying per-
sons, the immobility of the pupil is also manifested.
May we not conclude that the same condition of the re-
tina exists in the somnambuUst, who exhibits the same
immobility of the iris, and unchangeableness of the pupil
when exposed to light, as we observe in the diseased,
and in the action of the poisons above-mentioned ? And
have we the slightest reason to presume this continued
sensibility m the one case, while, with all physicians, we
reject it m the other ?
>. ^
>
But notwithstanding the immobility of the pupil let
us now, with Darwin, assume, for a moment, the same
sensibility of the retina as in the waking state, and con-
ceive that somnambulism constitutes an exception from
the above general rule; in this case, you must admit
that now, m proportion to the very large aperture which
leads to the interior of the eye, a much larger quantity
of light must also flow into it ; and, therefore, in propo/-
tion to the enlarged surface of the pupil, at other times
so contracted, more rays of light must fall upon the re-
tina. But the rays which flow into the eye by the nar-
row aperture m the waking state, are quite sufficient for
80 LECTURE III.
the purposes of common and distinct vision. A greater
quantity would too much stimulate the sensitive nerves
of the eye, and occasion pain. Now, should the great
quantity of light, which penetrates into the widely opened
internal eye of the somnambulist, produce not the slight-
est sensation ? Should even a burning candle, which,
when held so close to the eye of a waking person, ~in
such a dilated state of the pupil, would, according to all
experience, by such an overwhelming irritation occasion
sudden blindness ;—should this not produce the slightest
excitement in the somnambulist ? But, on the other
hand, could a very slight stimulus be felt, when the vo-
lition is directed to the eye, or when the mind is occu-
pied with similar ideas to those which might be produced
by it ? And, moreover, in a quite different manner, and
with much weaker effect, than takes place in the waking
state ? All this is evidently nothing more than hypo-
thesis, which exists only in the mind of its author, and
is directly opposed to all the laws which regulate the
action of stimuli upon the nervous system, and their
transmission to the organ of vision.—The examples of
reverie, or of the forcible abstraction of mental attention
from the organs of the senses, can have no application
to the present case. There is no doubt that an mdivi-
dual may occupy himself so profoundly, and so constantly
with one particular train of ideas, that other objects fall-
ing within the sphere of his senses are not perceived.
But what a difference between this state and that ot
which we are now speaking ! In the former case, there
is manifestly no organic change ; in the latter, there is
a chance so remarkable and so pemanent, durmg which
all the usually active parts of the eye are m a condition
so very different ;-in the former, merely psychologica
causesV-in the latter, at the same time, a very important
Xysi kl cause. The sensations which are not remarked
bv these individuals in their reveries, are sensible im-
nressions of the usual kind. But unexpected sensations
S aTa" i^^l-^- ^^^^'^"^ the nerves in an unusual
degree -such as an unexpected flash of lightmng, a
ON SOMNAMBULISM, 81
violent clap of thunder, a musket discharged in the neigh-
bourhood, shaking the body, powerful irritation of the
skin, the excitement of severe pain ;—these, and several
other unusual influences on several senses at once, cer-
tainly would, however deep the abstraction, occasion im-
mediate awaking out of such a dreamy state of absence.
An important circumstance, which completely distin-
guishes the state of the somnambulists from that of mere
absence of mind, manifestly shows that, in the former,
there is not merely a want of attention to sensible im-
pressions, but a real insensibility, and, therefore, presents
a decisive contradiction of the hypothesis of Darwin.
It is this, that, in some somnambulists, while the rest of
the senses are completely dormant, the nerves of the
tongue, or of the skin, appear to be awake, and to admit
of certain impressions being conveyed, through one or
other of these nerves,;to the mind. This phenomenon is
so common, and so generally admitted, that I consider it
unnecessary to adduce any examples of it. If the cause
of the apparent insensibility of the other senses depended
merely upon mental abstraction, we cannot find the
slightest reason why these senses should be neglected,
and the active power of the mind extended only to the
others.
I am much mistaken, if what I have already said upon
this subject be not found sufficient to shake the very foun-
dation of the Darwinian hypothesis. But permit me, once
more, to draw your attention to a phenomenon, which we
observed in the cases formerly noticed, viz. the fixed and
complete immobility of the whole eye. In such a state
of this organ, there can be no distinct seeing of objects,
either near or at a distance ; nor of such as lie immedi-
ately before or beside us. For the principal functions of
the muscles of the eye, which are here in a spasmodic
state, are intended to give to the organ, according to the
dictate of the will, the particular direction corresponding
to the situation of those objects which most interest the
mind at the time ; and also to enable us to adapt this or-
gan to the different distances of objecte, in order that
82 LECTURE III.
may see the nearer and the more remote with equal di's-
tmctness. In the somnambulists, however, the muscles
of the eye are entirely deprived of this power of adapta-
tion. Their axis remains constantly directed to the same
point, and the distance between the retina and the cornea
is always the same. Only those objects, therefore, can
be seen by the somnambulist which are placed in a straight
direction before him, and of those only which lie at a
certain distance can a distinct image be formed upon the
retina. Those, on the contrary, which are not at the par-
ticular distance from the eye in this direction, cannot be
distinctly represented upon it. But this is quite incon-
sistent with the phenomena observed in the somnambu-
list, who, as we know from experience, must distinctly re-
cognise all such objects, nearer or more remote, whether
they lie immediately before him, or are situated on one
side or the other. Somnambulists, also, and I have al-
ready given an instance of this in the case reported by
Professor Feder, observe many objects which are placed
within their sphere of vision, and correspond with their
train of ideas, and upon which their attention, at the time,
appears to be fixed, either not at all, or only in a very
imperfect manner. (And this is quite as ti'ue, and hap-
pens just as frequently, nay even more frequently, than
that they—as I have already remarked in confimiation of
Darwin's hypothesis—observe those objects to which
they are led by their train of ideas.) If Darwin's hy-
pothesis were correct, the objects in question, according
to the otherwise known laws of sensible perception, must
be recognised under these circumstances ; for no reason
can be assigned why this should not be the case. On
the other hand, their mind—as appears chiefly in those
in whom one or other of the senses seems to be awake
—
frequently receives sensible perceptions, which do not
harmonize with the train of ideas with which they arc oc-
cupied at the time ; which it, nevertheless, receives, and
by which it is induced to abandon the former, and to com-
mence a new train. If time permitted, I could adduce
many decisive instances of this fact. Of this description
ON SOMNAMBULISM. 83
were the cases I foiTaerly mentioned in favour of Dar-
win's hypothesis, which, when more closely exammed,
would have a directly contrary tendency.
One other objection to Darwin's theory, and I may
then proceed to something more interesting. All the
cases of somnambulism, mentioned in my first lecture,
were confined to those, of whom the observers say that
their eyes were closed. To these, the hypothesis of the
English philosopher is wholly inapplicable. In regard to
them, therefore, all the observations I made in my last
lecture, upon the supposition that their eyes were not com-
pletely closed, or were opened occasionally, still remain
in their full force ; and they derive double strength from
what I have now said respecting the condition of the eyes
of somnambulists—the insensibility of the optic nerve,
the state of the muscles of the eye, and the impossibility,
in suc"h a state of the organ, of receiving the usual im-
pressions necessary for requisite and distinct vision.
Notwithstanding all I have hitherto said in this and in
the former lecture, against the hypothesis of those writ-
ers, who maintain that the somnambulist receives the vi-
sual perceptions necessary to guide him in his operations,
in the same way as the waking man, through the medium
of his eyes ; one argument must have impressed itself
upon you, which appears to outweigh every other. In
the hypothesis in question, you will have found a harmony
with all the other known laws of physiology and psycho-
logy ; with our knowledge of sensation and perception ;
while, in every other explanation, you may have remarked
something unhannonious, something unusual, and, appa-
rently, unnatural. What ! the eye ! this organ so pecu-
liar in its nature, so entirely formed for the purpose of
vision, so universally distributed throughout the whole
of the animal creation I Shall an individual be capable of
dispensing with the use of the eye, and yet see ? Im-
possible ! Not in vain has nature created an organ so
complicated, composed of so many heterogeneous mate-
rials, and yet so well adapted to one specific object—to
the reception and transmission, to the due direction and
84 LECTURE III.
union of the rays of light ; an organ of which no part
can be wanted, none can be otherwise constituted, none
can occupy the place of the other. Not in vain did she,
in pursuance of her design, give to each of these parts,
according to the nicest calculation, the requisite degree
of transparency and opaqueness, of firmness and pliancy,
of sensibility and irritability ; not in vain did she bestow
upon this organ so much of her most precious materials,
provide it with so many and such important organs ; she,
who generally manages her resources with so much eco-
nomy ;
placed it in a secure situation, protected on all
sides, and applied it with such an appropriate covering,
dependent on the will. And could all these precautions
have been taken for no purpose ? Can the eye be dis-
pensed with, and yet the same object be attained ? And
—which is more—can we conceive the mind to be capa-
ble of receiving visual perceptions without this medium,
which, properly speaking, creates them, and upon which
they so entirely depend ? Can it be capable of receiving
that to which colours, light and shade alone give consis-
tency ; and receive it, too, without colour, light and shade,
and yet in the same manner as if it were communicated
through the medium of the eye ?
I feel the weight of this objection, and, therefore, shall
devote the whole of my attention to it in my next lecture,
when I hope to arrive at the result of the whole of this
investigation—a result which, I trust, will not be entirely
unimportant and uninteresting for those who desire to
elevate themselves a little above the usual phenomena of
the sensible world.
( 85 )
LECTURE IV.
Hitherto, in our inquiries into somnambulism, every
thing seemed to compel us to abandon the common route,
and to seek a new one for ourselves. But, inunediately
on om* entering upon it, a series of inaccessible eminences
appeared to present insurmountable obstacles to our fur-
ther progress, and to admonish us to return to the old
road. But let us boldly approach a little nearer to these
obstructions ; perhaps, upon a closer inspection, they may
lose somewhat of their heighth and ruggedness ;
perhaps
we may be fortunate enough to find a path, which, if it
does not conduct us over, may yet lead us past them.
Let us examine the two most formidable difficulties—that
we should receive visual impressions without the assist-
ance of that sense, which is constructed so entirely and
peculiarly for this purpose ; and this without the co-ope-
ration of that matter, which otherwise is alone capable of
procuring them.
In order to the due investigation of this objection, per-
mit me to throw a few preliminary glances upon ovir sen-
sitive faculty in general, and to ascertain how far our as-
sured knowledge of it extends.
It has been demonstrated that, in all our sensations,
certain stimuli operate upon our sensitive organs, pro-
duce some change in them, are thence communicated to
the mind, and, at last, eflPectuate in it what we denomi-
nate sensible perceptions. This change which the sensi-
tive organ undergoes, it either receives immediately from
the object itself which alfects it—as in the smell, taste,
and touch ; or it acquires it through the medium of
86 LECTURE IV.
the two universcally diffused natural substances, light and
air—as in hearing and seeing. In the former case, the
nerve—the chief component part of every sensitive or-
gan—is immediately affected by the operating stimulus,
and it is so intimately interwoven with all that which
otherwise belongs to its organization, that the immediate
contact of the sensitive organ and its nerve takes place in
the same instant ; while, on the contrary, the agitation of
the air, when sounds are produced, must first be reflect-
ed by the external ear into the auditory passages, and
must penetrate from thence to the tympanum and small
bones of the ear, before it can arrive at the acoustic
nerve ; as the rays of light, also, when visual perceptions
are to be produced in the mind, must first penetrate
through the different membranes and humours of the eye,
must become refracted by them, and united in a small
image, before the optic nerve is affected. We know, too,
that, in all our sensations, a change takes place in the
nerve of the organ of sense ; and that, when the latter
has lost its irritability by the substances which principal-
ly affect it, the mind acquires no perception—however
sound the other parts of the organ may be, however
strong the impression, and however duly modified by
the other parts of the sensitive organ it may reach the
seat of the nerve. As certain is it, too, that, in order
that sensations maybe produced by contact, the nerve, in
its farther progress to the brain, and so far as it can be
traced there, must be in proper condition. If the nerve,
in its progress into the internal part of the brain, is sub-
jected to pressure, or to stimulus, or if it be otherwise
decidedly defective, either there will be no sensation at
all, or the sensation will not correspond with the im-
pression made by the object.
Now, in this consists all the real knowledge we possess
respecting the origin and nature of our sensitive faculty,
and to this, also, it is limited. What changes the sti-
muli acting upon the sensitive organs may produce upon
the nerves, whether they excite shocks or contractions in
the numerous fibres, or whether they operate upon that
ON SOMNAMBULISM. 87
fluid which is said to vivify the nerves ;
whether they
produce in it a change of motion, which extends from
thence to its origin in the brain, whether the affection of
the nerve, as Darwin maintains, extends only to the
marrow diffused in the sensitive organ, or whether the
motions excited in it are transmitted through the brain to
the origin of the nerves : —upon these points there are
abundance of opinions ; and many fine theories, and de-
monstrations, if you will, may be propounded on the sub-
ject ; but, after all, they remain opinions and hypotheses
only. But, then, there appears here a large chasm, or
hiatus, in our knowledge, which, it is probable, we shall
never be enabled to fill up. Admitting that all we have
hitherto mentioned could be incontrovertibly established,
still we have here only a constant effect of one body upon
another, in which the object which gives, and that which
receives, are of the same kind ; where action and passion
are of the same nature, and where communication and
transmission take place according to the same known laws
of motion. But here there arises an entirely different
series of phenomena. Upon this change, this shock, this
contraction of the nervous fibres, by which we represent
to ourselves those changes which they undergo, there
follows something quite heterogeneous
—
Perception.
The tremulous motion of the tympanum, and of the
other parts of the ear is transmuted into a sound. The
image of the object, reduced in its proportions, which is
represented on the retina of our eye, and the change
thereby produced in the optic nerve, excites in the mind
a large picture, which completely corresponds with that
which lies before the eye, and with the notices received
through our other senses. We do not hear the undulations
of the air, which penetrate into the ear ; no—our mind ap-
prehends sounds. It is not the image formed upon the
retina which penetrates through the long and dark ave-
nue to the origin of the nerves : —no—immediately be-
hind the point where it was formed, the rays of light
again disperse, and the image ceases to exist. This
image is nothing more than a picture on the white wall
88 LECTURE IV.
of an optic camera ; nothing but a transient affection of
the optic nerve from the contact of light, which contains
subjective colours, as the prism, whose different colours
vanish as soon as their place is occupied by another series
of refracted rays.
Even on the retina, the image in question is the last
of the series of corporeal effects ; and it produces a change
totally incapable of being compared with any bodily af-
fection—a perception. In our visual perceptions, we see
no more the small inverted image : The former are some-
thing quite different from the latter—something existing
without us—something permanent. Would we absolute-
ly penetrate farther—would we extend the corporeal ef-
fects deeper into the substance of the nerves, and allow
this nervous operation on the retina to be transmitted to
the alleged seat of the soul ;
still, we should not have
advanced a single step ; it is yet only corporeal motions
with which we have to do, and, therefore, quite hetero-
geneous to that of which we wish to ascertain the origin
—perception. Here, there always remains the same in-
comprehensibility of the transition of motion to idea, of
the connection between matter and spirit. We may in-
terpose as many material processes as we please, we may
allow these and their motions to become as minute and
delicate as possible, we may call in to our assistance all
the modern discoveries of anatomy, physics, and chemis-
tiy ; we may fill the nerves with animal spirits, with elec-
trical substances or chemical gases, and assume that, by
their means, motions are transmitted to the sensorium ;
we may allow them to terminate in the cerebral cavity,
which the anatomical knife of Soemmering has rendered
so famous, and ui the very problematical humour with
which it is supposed to be filled ;
—we may assume, with
Kant, that this last is produced by a supposititious power
of the nerves of decomposing themselves into their vari-
ous elementary substances, and thus conceive that differ-
ent sensations may arise in consequence of the disengage-
ment of the one or the other of these substances : Still
must we, at last, arrive at the gi-eat gulf we are anxious
ON SOMNAMBULISM. 89
to avoid. From those substances, thus developed and
set in motion, we must proceed to that which receives
them, and in which these motions become metamorphosed
into sensations and perceptions—this variety is combined
into unity, and this transient converted into something
permanent. In all our attempts, therefore, to explain
our faculty of sensible perception, we undeniably advance
beyond the limits of our present knowledge, and lose our-
selves in a province which lies beyond all experience.
Om* reason—and herein consists its whole essence—only
enables us to analyse such notions as are contained in or
developed from each other ; and these are either pre-
sented to us by experience, or formed by the mind itself.
Here, however, we find something which is not subjected
to such a power, viz, a simple fundamental change be-
tween two essences quite foreign to each other, which
cannot be deduced from any other higher principle, which
cannot be combined with any other associated change
—
consequently, is incapable of derivation or analysis, and,
therefore, lies beyond the domain of reason.
From all that has been said, it follows that, in the end,
it must always remain a complete enigma for us, how
perceptions arise out of those changes which our organs
undergo, in consequence of sensible impressions. This
only do we know from experience, that both are always
to be found together, accompany, or follow each other.
But, in fact, this close connection is something arbitrary,
established by, the author of our being, only necessary in
regard to us, and that merely in appearance. We per-
ceive no proper casual connection. We see no relation
between these causes and these effects. We can perceive
no reason why the author of our bemg might not have
attached such a phenomenon to something different ; and
why he might not as well have appointed those percep-
tions, which we now appear to receive through the medi-
um of our sensitive organs, to arise in the mind from
other causes, and through other channels.
To this may be added, that the being in which all sen-
sations become, at last, concentrated, and which perceives
90 LECTURE IV.
them, even in this first operation, is not merely passive,
but, as in all its other functions, completely active. Our
judgment mingles with our sensible perceptions, and mo-
difies them ; the impressions made upon one of our or-
gans are, without our being conscious of it, rectified by
the previous or contemporaneous sensations of the others ;
and thus association of ideas, custom, &c. also influence
our sensible perceptions. How little the latter can be
considered as quite pure may be most distinctly seen in
the expressions of the blind-born, when, with the assist-
ance of the instrument for operating upon cataract, light,
for the first time, flows into their eye, and, in this way, a
new world has been opened up to their mind. How dif-
fei'ent the efi"ect which appears to be produced by objects
upon their eye from that produced in our own ! How
difi'erent are their notions of distance, of size, of form,
&c., from those of an individual who gradually learns to
use his sensitive organs, and to combine the information
he receives through them ! By referring to the same
source—the influence of the mind upon our sensible per-
ceptions—and only in this way, can we explain how the
double image, by which every object is represented in
our eyes, does not lead us into error, but enables us to
see single ; and how the objects appear to stand upright,
although the picture on the retina is inverted.
What has been hitherto said is, in my opmion, so well
founded in the nature of the thing, and proceeds from
such well-known observations and reasonings, that it ap-
pears to require no farther authority for its confirmation.
In order, however, that you may be convinced that simi-
lar ideas are by no means foreign to our philosophy, per-
mit me to quote only one passage from a recent author.
Jacob, in his Psychology, expresses himself thus :
"From
what we know in regard to the wonderful conformation
and objects of the various parts of the eye, we must not
imagine that we are also acquainted with the mode in
which sensations are produced in the mind, when we only
know the changes that take place in the sensitive organs.
The peculiar modification of the organ of vision is only
ON SOxMN AMBULISM. 91
the external condition under which an external object
can be seen. For what reason nature has adopted pre-
cisely these, and no other provisions for this object, we
cannot tell. If creatures could be found, whose eyes re-
presented objects awry, and in a caricatured form, we
should not be entitled to conclude from this that there
was an absolute necessity for their seeing objects only in
this way. Nay, if creatures could be found, who, merely
by their organs of touch, without any of our provisions for
light, received visual perceptions, we could not reasonably
object to the possibility of such a contrivance. That with
two eyes we see only one object, is a fact. Perhaps other
creatures may require a thousand eyes for the same purpose.
Perhaps nature might annihilate all eyes but one, nay,
this one also, and yet attain her object. We can give
no reason whatever for such a proceeding—we know no-
thing about it excepting from experience," And, again,
in another passage, the same author asks, " whether
there may not possibly be various kinds of external senses ;
whether those we possess can be considered as absolutely
and necessarily attached to our organization ; and whether
the conditions, under which our senses operate in our
present state, are the only conditions under which they
could operate in any circumstances ? Of all this we know
nothing a priori; and experience affords us too little
mformation to enable us to give a satisfactory answer to
these questions. But there exist animals which possess
either very dissimilar, or totally different organs, and
yet seem to be affected in the same way as man."
After all that has been said on the subject, no one
will deny it to be possible that the incomprehensible self-
conscious being within us—so variously active within
and without us—capable of acting and suffering in a
manner elevated above its own cognitive faculty might
also acquire similar sensible perceptions in a different
manner, without the assistance of those organs through
which we, at present, receive them. Whether this be
actually the case can be determined only by experience
;
but this must be, indeed, certain experience, frequently
92 LECTURE IV.
repeated, and placed beyond all doubt. Whether the ob-
servations I formerly laid before you be of this nature, it
is for you to judge. By those who have occupied them-
selves with the investigation, no doubt has been raised in
regard to their historical authenticity. But, assuredly,
this belief will be strengthened, and the notions even in-
voluntarily arising in the minds of many, in regard to the
great improbability of such facts, will be more effectually
removed, when many other observations, of a quite dif-
ferent kind, are presented to them, from which it would
appear, that even in the case of a total want, or of a dif-
ferent number and condition of the sensitive organs, the
same sensations are produced as in man. And if it
should be found, that, after the entire destruction of the
eye, the mind can, nevertheless, acquire the same per-
ceptions which, usually, could only be obtained through
the insti-umentality of this organ, then, it is hoped, will
that apparent eminence, which opposed our farther pro-
gress, soon become more level.
I formerly mentioned to you from Jacob's Psychology,
that this author, in confirmation of his opinion, noticed
several animals possessing very dissimilar, or quite dif-
ferent organs from ours, which were, nevertheless, affect-
ed as we are. Here, without doubt, he had in view the
observations which are so copiously presented to us by
natural history, especially by that of the insect tribes. In
many of these animals, we can find no vestige of an organ
of smell ; and yet many of their operations evince a very
high degree of this sense. Most insects possess eyes
;
but in regard to their number, as well as their form and
condition, these organs differ, not only among themselves,
but also from those of other animals. The eyes of the
common fly, for example, are sex-angular ;
the spider has
no less than six of these organs ;
and yet, judgmg from
their operations, they appear to receive only a single per-
ception from these various images. The chameleon
moves only the one eye, without the other, and can thus
see before and behind, towards the sides, upwards and
downwards. In birds, the eyes are placed on the sides
ON SOMNAMBULISM. 93
of the head ;
they do not, therefore, like us, see only one
object with their two eyes, but several. In the polypi,
we perceive nothing analogous to our finer senses, and
yet, without eyes, they manifest the most delicate sensi-
bility to light—they are visibly alfected by light and
darkness ; and when any nourishment comes near them,
they immediately perceive it. Fishes have no external
organ of hearing, and the internal organ is so imperfect,
that it has been doubted, down to the most recent times,
whether they really possess any organ of the kind. They
live, also, in an element, which, in consequence of its
little elasticity, permits sound to be transmitted in a veiy
weak degree ; and yet it is known that some, at least, of
these animals, without being distinguished from others by
theu' auditory organs, become accustomed, in this ele-
ment, to attend to the voice of man ; nay, as we learn
from a trust-worthy author, they will even approach when
they are called by the names which have been given them.
Finally, it is a well-known fact that cats and owls see in
the dark ; and that the visual perceptions they receive
from objects become stronger in proportion to the dimi-
nution of the element which assists us in obtaining simi-
lar perceptions.*
Here, then, we have a series of phenomena in the ani-
mal kingdom which seem to demonstrate the indepen-
dence of perception upon organic structure. But I sus-
pect that still more decisive proofs will be demanded. It
might be said that, from the circumstance of the organs
of hearing not having yet been discovered in insects, we
* The same phenomenon has been distinctly observed in some
somnambulists. They complain of the light, whether natural or
artificial, and, in performing their various operations, manifest a pre-
ference for total darkness {Transl.)
In the Mm tijphlus, Lin. the younger Gmelin, (Joimiey tJirouah
Russia, vol. 1. p. 1 152,) found that this animal must have many visual
perceptions, although no vestige of an external eye can be discovered
m It. In the mole, the elder Dr Treviranus foimd that the optic
nerve has the same origin with the nerve which goes to the snout •
that the former is very small—the latter remarkably large ; and that
the eye itself consists of a small, opaque, simple ma,%s.—{Author)
94 LECTURE IV.
only conclude, per saltum, that no such organs exist.
The observations we made in regard to the sensibility of
the Polypi for light, and the stretching out of their ams
towards the substances from which they derive nourish-
ment ; while the organs of hearing, smelling, and sight,
are entirely deficient, might be very well explained by
their sense of touch, especiallj^ if we take into our consi-
deration the recent discoveries which have been made in
regard to the sphere of action of the living animal body,
which sphere, in the polypi, might be more extensive and
more energetic than in other animals. The peculiar or-
gans of vision in insects, and their greater number, when
compared with the want of correspondence between the
oi'gans and the perceptions, might be explained in the
same way as the hearing of man with two ears, the see-
ing with two eyes, and the single perception of the ex-
ternal object. As little does the observation in regard
to fishes appear to many to be decisive in our present ar-
gument, because, notwithstanding their imperfect organs
of hearing, a sensitive nerve might quicken it, and supply
the defect. Besides, it is well known that habit and prac-
tice are capable of greatly increasing the sensibility of an
organ, and of rendering it affectable by very weak stimuli.
Finally, it is an vmdoubted observation, that many ani-
mals see better in the dark than in day-light ; but the
same observation likewise teaches us, that, in them, the
iris reflects an uncommon quantity of light, which may
illuminate the near objects—that the aperture of the pu-
pil is then much enlarged, and that the retina, there-
fore, receives more light than usual. The attention of
these animals is, probably, then more attracted to the ob-
jects immediately before them, and being more intently
fixed upon them, they feel the weaker aflfections of the
retina more strongly than usual, and this membrane may
possess a higher degree of sensibility at night than during
the day. To these objections many apposite remarks
might be opposed; but. while in possession of decisive
proofs, we are unwilling to dwell upon such as are doubt-
ful. Let us, therefore, proceed immediately to such as,
4
ON SOMN'AMBUI.ISM. 95
if found to be just, may, at once, place the whole subject
in a clear point of view, and render farther reasoning
superfluous.
A sei'ies of recent and decisive experiments has demon-
strated the fact, that, in the bat, the faculty of vision
continues even after the organ has been completely de-
stroyed. Eminent philosophical naturalists, with Spal-
LANZANi at their head, instituted these experiments, and
verified the fact, in different parts of Italy—in Pavia, Pisa,
and Turin ; and in Genoa, also, they have been repeated,
with the same success, by Spadone, Rossi, Vasalli,
and JuRiNE ; and no objection has been made to their
accm-acy. Frequently—in various circumstances, and in
different ways—have these experiments been repeated ;
the utmost attention has been employed in order to ob-
viate every possibility of deception ; and the observa-
tions have been communicated with the most minute de-
tail. In short, we have the most ample guaranty for the
credibility of the observers, as well as for the truth of the
facts. Now, these naturalists discovered that the bat,
even when blinded, regulates its motions in the same man-
ner as when possessing the complete use of the eyes. In
several of these animals, they destroyed both organs of
vision, depriving them of their transparency by means of
a red-hot iron, or picking out the whole eye with the
point of a pair of scissors, cutting away the roots, and
fillmg the cavities with melted wax. These completely
blinded bats were not in the slightest degree obstructed
m_ their motions. They flew about, by night or by day,
with their wonted ease and rapidity, avoiding all obstacles
which lay, or were intentionally placed, in their way, as
dexterously as if in full possession of their sight. They
turned round at the right time when they approached a
wall, rested in a convenient situation when fatigued, and
struck against nothing. The experiments were multi-
plied m the most varied and ingenious manner. A room
was filled with thin twigs ; in another, silken threads were
suspended from the roof, and preserved in the same posi-
tion, and at the same distance from each other, by means
96 LECTURE IV.
of small weights attached to them. The bat, although
deprived of its eyes, flew through the intervals of these
threads, as well as of the twigs, without touching them ;
and when the intervals were too small, it drew its wings
more closely together. In another room, a net was placed,
leaving occasional, irregular spaces for the bat to fly
through ; the net being so arranged as to form a small
labyrinth. But the blind bat was not to be deceived.
In proportion as the difliculties -were increased, the dex-
terity of the animal was augmented. When it flew over
the upper extremity of the net, and seemed imprisoned
between it and the wall, it was frequently observed to
make its escape most dexterously. When, at length, it
became so fatigued as to be unable to raise itself up in
its flights, it still flew rapidly along the ground, fluttered
about between the feet of the tables, chairs and sofas,
and even in this situation, surrounded by so many diffi-
culties, avoided touching any thing with its wings. Its
walk was as secure as its flight. Through the diff"erent
corners of a small, purposely constnicted labyrinth of
windings, it threaded its way with as much caution and
dexterity of motion, and extricated itself with as much fa-
cility as if possessed of sight. But even in the open air,
its flight was as prompt, easy, and secure as in the close
rooms ; and in both situations, altogether similar to that
of its associates who had the use of their eyes. When
let loose from a high tower, both descended perpendicu-
larly, then took a horizontal direcaon, skimmed along a
wall, and endeavoured to find a hole to creep into. One
of those which had been deprived of their eyes, made its
escape through one of the meshes of the net, reached the
open air, hovered, at first, round a lofty cypress-bower,
without resting on it, then raised itself in its flight to the
nearest house-roof. .
I could recount more of these remarkable experiments,
but I fear I have been already too difi-use, and must re-
fer those, who are desirous of more copious details, to the
first volume of Green's Journal of Physics, p. 39 J, Szc.
'
I also request to call your attention, in the work referred
ON SOMNAMBULISM. 97
to, to the precautions taken in regard to the other senses,
with a view to prevent deception, and ascribing to a new
faculty what belongs to one already known.* It is not
* Since this lectiu-e was WT-itten, Jurinb has published some new
experiments made upon the Vespertilio auritus and Vespert.ferrum
equimm, which coincide with those of Spalxanzani, in so far as re-
lates to the fact, that the flight of these animals is not impeded by
the deprivation of sight, but differs from them in this, that cover-
ing, and at the same time, stopping up the ears, certainly makes the
flight of the bat unsteady. Hence, Jurine concludes that, in this
animal, the organ of hearing sujiplies the place of the blinded eye ;
and, in confirmation of this opinion, he refers to the fact, that, in
bats, the nerves of the ear and the snout, as well as the whole ear
itself, are of an extraordinary size, (Journ. de Phys. par Delame-
THERiE, T. iii. p. 145. Gilbert's Anncden der Physik, B. iii. p.
461.) But these experiments can scarcely make any change in the
result which the author has drawn from SpallamanVs olDservations.
For even if, in the bat, the auditory nerve is capable of supplyino-
the place of the optical, it would be absurd to assume that it should
possess this capabiUty as an auditory nerve. In his experiments
the Oenevese philosopher, as Cuvier has abeady remarked, went
greater lengths than merely depriving these animals of their sight
and hearing. The other proof, which he derives from the extraor-
dinary size of the nerves of the ear and the snout, is also of no
weight. For not only these, but all t'le nerves of the bat are of an
extraordinary size. Cuvier afterwards gave another explanation
ot all the phenomena observed in bnts. (See his Lectures on Com-
parat. Anatomy, T. ii. p. 625.) To him it appeared that all these
phenomena may be explained by referring them to the sense of
feeling. " In point of fact," says he, " the bones ofthe middle of the
hand and the joints of the fingers, which proceed from the thumb
are very large. The slyn which unites them presents an extraordi'
nary surface to the air ;
the nerves distributed to these parts are nu-
merous and much divided ;
they form a wonderftil species of net-
work for Its fineness and the number of its anastomoses. It is pro-
bable that m the operation of flying, the air struck by the .ring or hv
this so sensible skin, impresses upon this organ a sensation of heai
cold motd,t3v;es.stance, which indicate to the animals the obstacles'
and the facilities which are found in their way. But against ?his
explanation we find, in the author's papers, the well-founded ob
jection, that the bats suddenly acquire the facility of emp ovht a
other sense instead of the eyes, as soon as they arlblinde wl ife o i
the other hand, they could acquire the art of substituting feel g fo
vision only by slow dcgi^ees, by frequent practice, and hi the same
manner as we, when in the dark, learn to supply the want of si^it
by groping around us -~Note hy Dr TnEviHANu.s iL ddl
^
in ttE^2 r^S^^S
^^^^
98 LECTURE IV.
to be expected, however, that naturahsts will be satisfied
with experiments, upon this one species of animals. It
is to be hoped that they will soon be induced to extend
them to other animals, and enrich the annals of physics
with new, and perhaps, still more remarkable observa-
tions. For can it be supposed that the bat alone is en-
dowed by nature with this faculty, and that it may not
also be extended to many other animals ? May we not
suspect that something similar may take place in man,
the noblest work of creation. May not similar powers
lie doraaant in him, which are only developed, and called
into action in similar circumstances. In his case, indeed,
we cannot make such experiments ;
scarcely could an
Asiatic despot venture to do so, even on the person of a
criminal. But nature, unfortunately, sometimes presents
us with similar cases, and, by afflicting some individuals
of our species with complete and incm-able blindness, af-
fords us sufficient opportunities of making explanatory
observations upon this subject. It is unfortunate that so
little use is made of these phenomena, that they are al-
ways regarded through the spectacles of hypothesis, ab-
stracted from known experience. If viewed without pre-
judice, these experiments might, unquestionably, be to
psychology that which the phenomena presented by the
blind-born, after their sight has been artificially restored,
have been to that science and to physiology. But upon
this subject, which might lead me too far at present, I
shall make some observations in my next lectm-e. Should
it appear from these observations, that, under certam cir-
cumstances, a man may continue to receive visual impres-
sions which cannot be acquired from any other of the
senses, after he has completely lost the use of his eyes,
these experiments would not only give decisive support
to my proposition, but would also contribute new Hght,
new truth, and new force, to our other proofs.
( 99 )
LECTURE V.
We have now nearly passed the apparently insurmount-
able eminence, which seemed to have arrested our pro-
gress. Let us proceed a little way onwards, and, it is
hoped, we shall see it entirely behind us, and a free pas-
sage opened up for us, which may facilitate our farther
advance. Whether, by pursuing this path, we shall at-
tain the object we have in view ; whether the demands
of our reason will be here satisfied ; whether we shall
find an accordance between these phenomena and the
known laws of nature—between the facts I have laid be-
fore you and our knowledge of man ;—all this will imme-
diately be seen. But even if these wonderful operations
of the somnambulist should not become in the least more
comprehensible to us ; if here, too, as in many other in-
quiries, we should soon reach the natural limits of all our
investigations—that boundless ocean of the supersensible
—yet will it be a sufiicient reward for all our toils to
have advanced so far. For we should then be convinced
that we have not yet attained the goal ; we should then,
too, have here found the limits of our knowledge ; our
curiosity and conceit would be somewhat humiliated, and
we should leam to exercise a little modesty in deciding
upon other extraordinary phenomena. But perhaps I
may be fortunate enough to conduct you, by another than
the usual route, to the shore of that immeasurable ocean ;
perhaps we may from thence attain a somewhat clearer
prospect towards that land of futurity, the land of faith
and of hope ; perhaps the clouds by which it is enveloped
may disperse a little here and there, and some partial
100 LECTURE V.
rays peep forth amidst the obscurity. In that case, I
trust, we shall have no reason to repent that we have
been induced to traverse the previous, although by no
means flowery path ; and perhaps you will thank me more
than if I had analyzed, in the usual manner, the problem
which our psychologists have hitherto vainly attempted
to solve.
I concluded my last lecture with a promise to point out
to you, in the human species also, similar phenomena to
those which Spallanzani, and other natural philoso-
phers, discovered in the bat ; and this promise I now
hasten to fulfil.
Several individuals, who lost their eye-sight by acci-
dent or disease, have, as is well known, presented us with
interesting observations on the improvement of our other
organs of sense, especially of the touch, which, in such
unfortunate persons, became so wonderfully delicate, as,
in many respects, to supply the place of the lost eyes.
We have all heard of the instance of the famous org-anist
of Ammerfort, who not only played upon his organ with
great skill, recognised the impression and the value of all
sorts of coins merely by feeling them with his fingers, but
could even distinguish colours by the same means. In
various other individuals this same faculty has been de-
veloped in a still higher degree, enabling them to distin-
guish genuine from false antiques and imitations ; to re-
cognise not only the primary, but also mixed colours,
and, by means of their lingers, to read print. From these
indisputable facts, philosophers proceeded to many other
remarkable operations of blind-born individuals, and ex-
plained them upon the same principle. Increased deli-
cacy of the touch, of the smell, and of hearing, must be
the common and the sole cause of all.
The expressions, the motions, and the actions of many
blind persons manifestly prove that they have the same
perceptions which other men obtain by means of their
eyes. How do they acquire these perceptions? Are
they • supplied by the other senses ? Are these other
genses in consequence of increased delicacy acquired by
ON SO>lN'AMBULISM. {01
practice and continued mental attention—capable of pro-
ducing those perceptions which t.he)^ appear to possess?
A more close and impartial investigation of those facts,
and a right appreciation of them, founded upon an ade-
quate knowledge of what sort of perceptions we are capa-
ble of acquiring through our other organs of sensation,
when deprived of sight, may enable us to arrive at a just
conclusion in this matter. Here, again, well-authenti-
cated facts are the principal requisites ; and of such I am
able to bring several under your notice. But before I pro-
ceed, allow me to premise a few general remarks.
In the first place, when I maintain that many blind
persons continue to receive visual impressions which can-
not be presented to them by their other senses, the ap-
preciation of the source of these impressions must de-
pend more upon their nature and quality than upon the
manner in which they are represented by the individual.
It is natural, in this case, that they should combine a dif-
ferent feeling with them, than when they are acquired
through the medium of the eye. In the latter case, they
are conscious of the organ through which they receive
them—that by this means they become masters of them
—that they are capable of changing their sphere of vi-
sion through the influence of the muscles of the eye
—
that they may annihilate this sphere, or render it perma-
nent—^may enlarge or contract it. The really blind per-
son cannot do this. To him, these perceptions, if he ac-
tually receives them, must appear like dreams, of which
he knows not whence they come. But this cannot pre-
vent us from designating these perceptions and notions of
things external to him as visual perceptions. In order
to be entitled so to call them, it is only necessary that we
be convinced that the expressions and actions of these
persons are founded upon sensations, which otherwise
they could receive only by means of the eye. To this
pomt, therefore, it is only necessary that my demonstra-
tion should extend.
In the second place, should this new view turn out to
be correct, we shall not be kd into error, if these indivi-
102 LECTURE V.
duals themselves believe that they receive this perception
by means of another sense, especially that of the touch.
Touch was the first thing which came to their assistance
when they lost their eyes ; which so often guided them
when deprived of that organ ;
upon which their attention
was principally fixed ; the impressions of which they re-
marked more acutely ; and to which, at first, they could
reduce all sensations which they did not acquire through
the other senses. Accordingly, they continued to exercise
chiefly this sense, remarked that it gradually became
stronger and more delicate, and, on many occasions, sup-
plied the place of the eye. The opinion of other persons
strengthened them in this notion, for they also viewed
the matter in the same light, and admired the wonderful
exaltation of this and the other senses. No serious in-
vestigation was instituted into the fact—whether the phe-
nomena observed in these blind persons could all be de-
duced from this known cause. It was enough that, in
many cases, no other efiicient cause was perceived ;
and,
from the remarkable perfection to which our sense of
touch may attain, philosophers believed themselves com-
pelled to refer everything to it. No one thought of any
other channels, which were not clearly perceived ; which
we have the less reason to be surprised at, when we con-
sider that, in our ordinary visual perceptions, we forget
the influence which our feeling has in their formation,
and that it is natural for us to set unknown causes aside,
so long as we can employ "such as are known. These rea-
sons seem suflicient to account for the blind being them-
selves deceived in regard to the origin of their perceptions.
In the third place, must it not strike us as something
very remarkable, that, in the case of these unfortunate
persons, this unknown soui'ce of new perceptions is only
developed by degrees, only gradually comes to their as-
sistance, and, in this respect, does not manifest itself in
such perfection as in the somnambulist, and the experi-
ments of Spallanzani ? In the somnambulist there is
manifested a change in the mainsprings of our machine
in certain respects, an alteration of the unknown inter-
ON SOMNAMBULISM. 103
medium between soul and body—of the organ of the soul.
In the individuals of whom we have been speaking—the
blind—there is merely the change occasioned by the pri-
vation of one of the grosser corporeal organs. In the for'
mer case, therefore, other phenomena may be presented,
which are manifested with more rapidity, and immediate-
ly become conspicuous in a remarkable degree. We
must not forget that we have here to do with a supersen-
sible being, with whose nature and modes of action we
are so httle acquainted, and, least of all, when his whole
condition is changed. It is only by experience, therefore,
that we can acquire a nearer insight into the laws applica-
ble to such a case. As little are we entitled to conclude
from the rapidity with which this new faculty is develop-
ed in bats, and the high degree of perfection it exhibits
immediately on its commencement—the very contrary of
which we find in individuals who have lost their sight
—
to the non-existence of it in the latter. We know that
nature always goes to work with the inferior animals,
compared with man, in a similar manner. The instinct
of animals, as soon as they are capable of manifesting it,
is perfect, their mechanical skill is exercised from the
first with the greatest facility ; while man advances only
step by step, and is only in his apprenticeship, while they
are executing master-pieces. May not something similar
take place here ? At least, we should be hasty, were we
to conclude from the inequality of this power in these
two ditferent beings, that it was entirely deficient in one
of them.
In the fourth place, the great inequality which exists
in different blind persons, in relation to their alleged new
source of perceptions, can also afford no proof of its non-
existence. This very slow progress towards development
in man, this natural and artificially acquired difference of
his nervous system and mental organ, and this unequal
cultivation of his mental faculties, compared with that
which we find in animals, must also—if this new faculty
is otherwise real—develope itself variously, according to
the variety of mind and body.
104 LECTURE V.
But, in the fifth place, should it appear, at last, that
the examples to be presently adduced afford us no good
grounds for deciding in favour of the existence of this
new source of visual perceptions, and should it appear to
you that the co-operation of the other four senses is suf-
ficient to produce it ; still the chain of my previous in-
quiries would not thereby be broken ; this limb, which
was only intended to strengthen the rest, might, without
disadvantage, be removed. The following narratives
would still continue to be certain proofs of the great per-
fectibility of our mind, which, even when the principal
sources of its ideas are closed up, is enabled, from quite
diff'erent materials, to acquire that which, it appeared,
could only be given by the former. And, even if consi-
dered in this point of view alone, I flatter myself that you
will not be indisposed to listen to them.
Let us, then, proceed to the facts themselves, which
appear to me to prove that the expressions and actions of
many blind persons manifest the existence of such per-
ceptions as, in a sound state, we commonly receive
through the medium of the eyes. It is unfortunate that
the greater number of the facts which have been publish-
ed in relation to the exaltation of the faculty of sensible
perception in man have been principally selected for the
purpose of confirming the hypothesis of the great im-
provement of the other senses, after the loss of the eyes.
These facts, therefore, cannot be considered as pure.
There are still, however, many remarkable examples
which tend to corroborate my opinion. I shall lay be-
fore you these facts quite naked, divested of all;;the rea-
sonings of the narrators, and of the ideas of the patients
themselves, relative to the manner in which they acquir-
ed such perceptions.
John Genelli, a blind man of Combassi, learned
statuary in his twentieth year, after he had lost his sight;
and, although blind, the .
figures he cut in profile were
both beautiful, and resembled the originals. He is also
said to have occasionally employed himself in crayon-
ON SOMNAMBULISM. 105
painting.*
—
Wezel, in the second volume of his Essay
on the Knotvledge of Man, mentions another blind man,
who not only played skilfully at cards, but was also a
good chess-player.
In Diderot's excellent letter sur les aveugles, a
Vnsage de ceux qui voyent, some notice is taken of a
man born blind, vA\o was living at the time the author
wrote (1749). He was a chemist and a musician. He
judged correctly as to beauty and symmetry—knew very
well when another object came in his way—and made no
mistake, in passing a sti-eet, whether it was a cul-de-sac
or an ordinary thoroughfare. He wrought at the turn-
ing-lathe, and with the needle ; took machinery to pieces,
and re-constructed it, &c.
You must all have heard of the famous Saundebson,
the great, although blind mathematician. When only
in the twelfth month of his life, he lost his sight by the
small-pox. He had, therefore, no more idea of light
than a person born bHnd, and he did not recollect to
have ever seen. Yet he made very rapid progress in the
acquisition of languages and sciences, and, in his thirtieth
year, had attained such eminence in the mathematics,
that, upon Newton's recommendation, he was appointed
to succeed Whiston in the mathematical chair, and be-
came an excellent teacher. He wrote a work upon al-
gebra, which was much esteemed by the learned ; and
what was the most remarkable, the blind man gave in-
struction regarding the laws of light, and taught optics.
In regard to this most ingenious man, much has been
commemorated respecting the aids of which he availed
himself in his calculations, and in the acquisition of his
mathematical knowledge ; but little regarding the mode
in which he was affected by external objects, the percep-
tions he acquired from them, and the activity of his ima-
gination. I can communicate only the following facts
respecting this extraordinary man. Every change in the
state of the atmosphere, when calculated to excite visual
perceptions, affected him ; and he became aware, espe-
* Acta eruditorum, 1709. P. 71.
106 LECTURE V.
cially in calm weather, when objects approached him.
One day, in a large garden, while he was assisting some
astronomers in making their observations, he always
knew when clouds passed ovpr the sun. He went out
with his pupils, at night, into the open air, and pointed
out to them the situation of each star. He married his
wife from love of her bright eyes. The perception he
had of these could have been derived only from the
touch, and this could hardly have been sufficient to in-
spire him with love.*
In the fifth volume of Fest's Consolation for Suf-
ferers, I find some remarkable observations relative to
a blind lady, still living, which were communicated by
another blind person, M. Baczko, in Koningsburgh.
At the age of eighteen months, this lady was so totally
deprived of her sight, that the humours flowed out of
her eyes ; and the transparent cornea was entirely de-
stroyed. Notwithstanding of this, she experienced a con-
stant internal influence of her perceptive faculty on the
eyes ; she is always anxious to obtain information re-
garding external objects through theni ; and as often as
anything occurs with which she wishes to be made ac-
quainted, the eyes perform the motions as if she wished
to direct them to the particular quarter, and she has a
lively feeling that she should perceive the objects with
them, if the external sense were not destroyed. This
person walks not only about her own house, but wherever
she has occasionally been, with as much freedom as if
she had the most complete use of her eyes. She never
injured herself on anything that lay in her way ; one
might believe that she had a presentiment of everything.
She sews, knits, spins, and performs the greater part of
the domestic business, so that, as the narrator adds,
people are frequently deceived, and led to believe that
she actually sees. She observes, at once, whether a
room is large or small, high or low. As a person with
vision at a single glance, she can judge of the whole
form of the countenance at the first touch.
* Nova Litter. 1719. P. 38.—1720. P. 257.
ON SOMNAMBULISM. 107
M. Baczko, who has himself been blind for eighteen
years, takes this opportunity to relate of himself, that he
also possesses many of the faculties above-mentioned;
that he, too, by the mere touch, acquires an idea of the
forms of bodies, and, with no less facility, can distinguish
the heighth, length, and breadth of a room. Moreover,
he adds the interesting observation, that, in his frequent
dreams, during his eighteen years' blindness, he has not
six times dreamt that he was blind, but that, in this state,
he sees and acts as if he had the complete use of his eyes.
In the thirtieth volume of the Transactions of the
Swedish Academy, there is related the history of a coun-
tryman, then still living, who, although blind from his
infancy, learnt to perform all those pieces of business in
common life, which are performed by other persons who
have the use of their sight. He lost his eyes from small-
pox in his third year, and even the natural form of the
eyes was destroyed. He retained only some small sense
of light and darkness ; but after his thirtieth year—he
was at that time thirty-four—this impression also disap-
peared. Notwithstanding, he can travel very well, not
only upon roads, but even through woods, without being
led by any one; and he executes many pieces of work
which, usually, require the use of the eyes. He cut down
timber in the' forest, constructed all sorts of machines,
such as carts, carriages, sledges, &c., hooped barrels,
made wheels, forged and hardened iron, made knives con-
taining other small blades and saws in their handles ;
nay,
he even built a house for himself ; made the internal ar-
rangements, planned and furnished the window sashes ;
cast buttons and buckles in forms constructed of fine
sand of his own collecting ; soldered metals ; made shoes ;
sewed ; threaded his needle ; dressed skins ; constructed
bellows for his own smithy, as well as for others. All
the work he executed without the use of his eyes was, if
not perfect, yet wonderfully well-fashioned.
The first volume of the Transactions of the Philoso-
phical Society of Manchester contains the history of
two blind persons. The one is a Dr Moves, a teacher
108 LECTUaE V.
of chemistry. Like Saunderson, he lost his eyes from
small-pox in his early childhood, and did not remember
to have ever seen with them. At an early period of hfe,
he made great progress in various sciences, and acquired
a thorough knowledge of geometry, mechanics, optics,
algebra, and astronomy. In his boyhood, mechanical
contrivances were his favomite amusement. The turning
and carving work he learnt so easily, and attained such
skill in them, that he constructed for himself a small
windmill, and even a weaver's loom. His eyes, indeed,
were not insensible to a strong light ; and the rays of the
sun, when refracted by a prism, made a particular im-
pression upon him. Red light, perhaps cloth or the like,
produced in him a disagreeable sensatioii, which he com-
pared to feeling a saw ; green made an agreeable impres-
sion upon him, which he compared to the soft touch of a
smooth, even surface. In other respects, all was dark
around him, and he could distinguish no object.
The other blind man, who was also known in the
neighbourhood of Manchester, was John Metcalf.
liike the previous individuals, he also had lost his sight in
early childhood, and had not the smallest idea of light
and its effects. In his youth, he plied the business of a
carrier, and was occasionally employed as a guide on un-
frequented roads, or when the ground was covered with
snow. He is now in a situation which we should con-
ceive to be the least of all fitted for a blind person. He
is surveyor of roads in a pathless, hilly country. Bew,
who communicates this account, has often seen him, with
his long staff, perambulating the roads, climbing steep
hills, wandering through the valleys, and investigating
their extent, form, and situation, in the way of his busi-
ness. In his department he possesses so much skill, that
he always finds sufficient employment. The most of the
roads over the Peak in Derbyshire were altered and im-
proved according to his plans ; and very lately, as Bew
says, he undertook the formation of a road between
Wilmslow and Congleton, to communicate with the great
London highway, and to avoid the hill. From what he
ON SOMNAMBULISM. 109
communicated to his friend upon the subject of this new
project, we perceive his exact knowledge of the various
heights and hollows of the whole district through which
the proposed road was to be conducted. He knows all
the obstacles he meets in his way—morasses, rocks,
hills, and such as arise from the operations of the work-
men employed under him, and finds means of avoiding
them.
In the Gentleman's Magazine for 1757, there is an
account of a patient who was cured of small-pox by Sir
Hans Sloane, and who, at the termination of the com-
plaint, was seized with violent convulsive fits. After the
use of the cold bath, which had been I'esorted to after
the failure of several other remedies, she lost first her
sight, then her hearing and speech, and, besides, the power
of deglutition. This last privation continued for three
quarters of a year. During this period, her touch be-
came so delicate, that, by means of her fingers, she could
distinguish not only the principal colours of various
stuffs, but even the mixed colours, and their finer shades.
In other respects, too, she supplied, in this manner, the
want of her eyes. But many of her actions and expres-
sions showed that she must have acquired sensations and
perceptions in some other way. Upon one occasion, her
friends wished to conduct her into a room where they gave
her to understand that she would find acquaintances only.
"When the door was opened, she drew back with displea-
sure, because, as she said, there were strangers in it, and
her friends had deceived her. She occupied herself much
with sewing, and her work was remarkably neat and re-
gular. Among many things of this kind which were
preserved in her family, there is a pincushion which is
scarcely to be equalled. Sometimes, too, she wrote, and
her writing was still more extraordinary than her sew-
ing ;
perfectly regular and correct ; the penmanship very
beautiful ; all the Unes straight, and the letters at an
equal distance from each other. The most astonishing
thing during her writing was, that she always discovered
when she had left out a letter, and placed it above the
110 LECTURE V.
word to which it belonged, with the proper mark. She
used to rise from her bed at all hours, and to sew or write,
when her pains would not allow her to sleep. As all
these operations in a blind and deaf person appeared so
very extraordinary, it was imagined that she must still
possess some feeble remnants of sight and hearing ; but
all experiments proved the contrary. One evening, a
clergyman found her working at a table, on which there
stood a light. He held his hat between her eyes and
the light, so as to render the latter of not the smallest
use to her. She continued her work undistui'bed, until,
accidentally raising her hand to rub her forehead, it
came in contact with the hat, upon which she fell into
violent convulsions. Thunder and lightning had no ef-
fect upon her, although she had formerly been very
much frightened during stormy weather. Upon one oc-
casion, she was sitting with her face to the window, dur-
ing a violent storm of thunder and lightning, but she
continued, undisturbed, at her work. Even her physi-
cian. Sir Hans Sloane, who was forsome time very scep-
tical in regard to the correctness of these facts, became,
at length, completely convinced of their reality. In Bath
her convulsive fits diminished, but she continued deaf,
dumb, and blind.
Another celebrated, and in several respects very re-
markable bhnd person, is Mademoiselle Paradies, the
great musician, with whose history I have the more plea-
sure m making you acquainted, because a very circum-
stantial accomit of her blindness and her talents, which
has recently appeared in Wagner's Beitrcige sur phi-
losophischen Anthropologie, affords me abundant mate-
rials for the task. But here, too, I shall communicate
to you only a few of the more remarkable passages of
this history, namely those which belong to my subject,
and more or less presuppose the existence of visual per-
ceptions. „
This lady, when only in the second or third year ot
her life, was seized with amaurosis, which entirely depriv-
ed her of sight. She never recovered, and became so
ON SOMNAMBULISM. Ill
blind, that she could neither perceive the lightning in a
stormy night, nor the light of the sun at noon. When
she approached a burning candle, her friends were oblig-
ed to give her warning, or to remove the light, other-
wise she would have passed her hand through it or burn-
ed herself, which frequently happened. I shall say no-
thing of the great progress which this lady made in
music, any more than I have thought proper to speak of
Saunderson's mathematical education. This much only
I must mention, that, as the latter taught his science, so
she gives instructions in her art to some young ladies,
amongst others, to a very ignorant girl of sixteen years
of age. This last-mentioned person she taught to sew,
to play at cards, and, with incredible pains, succeeded in
bringing her so far forward in music, as to perform se-
veral sonatas and a concerto. Mademoiselle Paradies
sews well, and, in her earlier years, made lace. She
plays all games of cards, and is very fond of the game of
skittles. Dancing is one of her favourite amusements,
and she takes a part in all German and foreign dances.
She is passionately fond of the theatre. In her youth,
she frequently performed important characters in private
companies. She is also sensible of the approach of
other bodies, and judges correctly of their distance and
magnitude. She clearly perceives when any larger body
stands in her way. She goes about the whole house like
a person possessed of sight. When chairs or tables are
displaced, and stand in her way, it sometimes happens
that she comes against them ; but this never occurs in
the case of a person. When she enters a strange room, in
which she had never previously been, she perceives whe-
ther it is large, moderate, or small. When near the
centre of the room, she can determine whether it is long,
broad, or round. When taken to the street, she easily
perceives when she passes a cross street ; and this even
when the air is perfectly calm. When led past a house
or garden in the open air, nothing escapes her attention •
she mqmres to whom this house or this garden belongs'
The most remarkable thing is, that she can distinguish
112 LECTURE V.
whether a garden is surrounded by boards, walls, or
stakes. Of her perception of near objects, she convin-
ced one of her sceptical friends in a remarkable manner.
He led her along a narrow path through an alley of
trees, and, with a stick given her by this friend, she
struck every tree in passing, drawing back her hand each
time, and she did not miss a single tree out of twenty.
Her ideas of beauty are derived from the perception
of proportion in examining statues. She has much ses-
thetic pleasure in feeling them. This pleasure is in pro-
portion to the beauty and correctness of the work. In
the Miillerian cabinet and collection of antiques, there-
fore, she experiences great delight ; and the observations
she makes upon the objects are quite wonderful. Laugh-
ing, angry, weeping, calm and quiet countenances she re-
coo-nises in a moment. She possesses such a clear and
lively idea of certain passions and caricatures, that she
sometimes excites, in her imagination, images which make
her laugh. In her melancholy hours, too, images some-
times present themselves to her, which excite terror. A
short time ago, as she was driving with two female friends
in an open carriage, on a summer evening, a little stout
mannikin appeared to her to keep running alongside the
carria.o-e, looking in and showing his teeth, at which she
was horrified, and had some trouble to get rid of the phan-
tom.
She herself selects all the stuffs and colours for her
clothes, and never could she be persuaded to choose a dress
of green and yellow, black and green, or green and blue.
Her head-dress, also, is of her own choosing ;
and she has
her own little vanities in regard to her dress, as well as
any other lady. Her relations and friends, who are ac-
customed to her ways, often forget that they are convers-
ing with a blind person, and it happens not unfrequently
that they consult this lady upon objects of sight—for ex-
ample, in purchasing cloth, ribbons, and flowers. They
show her every thing, and are not satisfied if anything
displeases her. Although her eye can give her no per-
ception of the objects around her, yet she exhibits a pre-
ON SOMNAMBULISM. 113
ference for one situation over another. The Augarten
pleases her more than the Prater. She prefers Dorn-
bach to the Augarten. There she finds purer air, water-
falls, green fields, and hills. She likes those situations
best where nature presents most variety of scenery, and
where the activity of the senses and the imagination is
equally excited.
But enough of this blind individual, who is so respect-
able on account of her talents, her accomplishments, and
her worth ; and enough of such instances, of which I
might still adduce several of importance to our argument.
In the meantime, I conceive that the facts I have men-
tioned are sufficient for my purpose. It remains to be
considered how we are to account for these very curious
phenomena. Does the soul receive the materials for such
perceptions through the medium of the other senses, or
must we resort to some other, perhaps higher principle ?
We cannot be guided by the causes assigned by these
persons themselves, which may be fallacious. Nor can
we reason from om' own feelings, because these may be
different in different individuals. We must, therefore,
abide by that which we know of the nature of our hear-
ing, seeing, and smelling, and of the particular percep-
tions we can acquire through these senses, when we com-
pare them with the facts adduced. But of this in my
next lecture.
H
( n4 )
LECTURE VI.
In the actions of the various blind persons noticed in
the preceding lecture, you will have again found several
of the phenomena which I laid at the foundation of my
inquiry into somnambulism ;
but, at the same time, you
will have observed a very essential dilference in these ac-
tions, which the more deserves our attention, as, in one
of these classes of individuals, it appears to conduct us
to a very different source of the perceptions requisite for
the performance of these operations, than in the others.
The faculty of performing operations for which the use
of the eyes is indispensable, is slowly developed in the
blind. They seem only capable of acquiring it by long-
continued exercise. They appear to attain to it only by
the example of other individuals—by a communication of
ideas with them ;
while, on the other hand, in the som-
nambulist, this faculty presents itself immediately, as an
already developed natural talent ; he exercises it, at once,
in its whole extent, as animals do their instinct ; and they
require no aid to bring it to perfection.
This must naturally lead to the question, whether re-
peated exercise, continued exertion of the mind, may in-
deed produce that which, in the preceding lecture, we ad-
mired in those blind persons, the more so, as the touch
and the hearing in many of them so evidently manifested
an exaltation and refinement of these senses, by means of
continued exercise and attention ; and many of their ac-
tions evidently originate from such an exaltation. This
question, therefore, has been answered in the affirmative
by all physical philosophers. I conceive that I have rea-
ON SOMNAMBULISM. 115
son to doubt the correctness of this answer ; in the facts
adduced, there appeared to me to be something very dif-
ferent from the mere effects of the exaltation of any of
the known sensitive organs of our usual perceptive fa-
culty ; and I endeavoured to convince you of this by
grouping these facts together, and giving you an accu-
rate but naked representation of them. I believe I may
flatter myself, that the impression made upon you by the
aggregate of these various remarkable phenomena will
not be unfavourable to the proposition I am maintaining ;
but I willingly confess, that, in order to produce complete
conviction, something more is still necessary. It is only
an exact analysis of these facts, and a comparison with
those perceptions which we acquire by our other senses
when the eye is abstracted, and with those which the sight
alone can procure for us, that we shall be enabled to ar-
rive at a correct decision in this case.
Let us take a somewhat closer view of the phenomena
with which those blind persons presented us. Almost
all of those persons had a feeling of the presence or ab-
sence of corporeal objects in their neighbourhood. They
knew if anything lay in their way ;
recognised the form,
heighth, length, and breadth of a room, even when they
entered it for the first time ;
they knew, when they were
in the open air, whether they were passing streets, houses,
or anything else. The blind-born person mentioned by
DIDEROT knew, when passing a street, whether it was a
cul-de-sac or a thoroughfare. Nothing escaped the at-
tention of Mademoiselle Paradies, when she, in the
open country, passed houses, gardens, &c. and she knew
whether these gardens were surrounded by boards, walls,
or stakes. According to the opinion of the psychologists,
this feeling is produced by the pressure of the air upon
the organ of feeling diffused over the whole body. For
instance, when a blind man passes a street, the surround-
ing air produces a different impression upon his body,
than when he passes a row of houses. When he goes
into a room of small dimensions, the air displaced by his
body produces a strong resistance in yieldiog, in con-
116 LECTURE VI.
sequence of the confined space. We cannot be surprised
that the blind person should become aware of this : then
the feeling of his fingers may acquire such delicacy as to
enable him to distinguish the finer nuances of the smoother
or rougher, or otherwise differently formed surfaces of
bodies, known to be occasioned by the colours—and this
we learn from undoubted experience ; so may the nerves
of the skin also acquire an increased sensibility, in order
to feel the increased or diminished pressure of the sur-
rounding air. That this increased sensibility of the
nerves of the skin is susceptible only of such an influence
of the air, as may be occasioned by the reflection from
such gross corporeal bodies, and the greater or less
draught of air, and not also, in the same degree, of other
changes in the same element—for instance, the different
states of the barometer, cold and heat, increased or dimi-
nished electricity, stormy or calm weather ; all this may
arise from the intenseness with which the attention of the
blind person is fixed upon the particular kind of impres-
sions. He has more need of such a specific distinction ;
his attention is more frequently directed to this ; and this
influence can be readily distinguished from that produced
upon his organs of feeling- by other changes of the atmo-
sphere.
But admitting that we were to rest satisfied with such
an explanation in respect to many of the phenomena, es-
pecially were we to assume a nervous atmosphere in
every individual—which he, indeed, possesses, as 1 have
learnt from several experiments and observations—which
surrounds his body to a certain extent ; still this would
not explain the mystery presented to us by several other
phenomena. I can easily comprehend how, in this way,
the length of a room might be felt ; but how we can be-
come aware of the breadth, the form, and especially the
heighth, I cannot conceive. The front of the body dis-
places the air, the sides do not, and the air is not set in
motion. Thus, too, I can easily conceive how these per-
sons know when they pass a street. But how Mademoi-
selle Para DIES can always distinguish whether she
ON SOMNAMBULISM. 117
passes a house or a garden, and whether the latter is in-
closed by a wall, by boards, or by rails—how she can dis-
cover this in every state of the atmosphere—I cannot
comprehend upon the foregoing hypothesis. If this
knowledge depended upon the different effect of the air
upon the organ of feeling, this feeling ought to be
stronger in stormy weather ; and when the wind is in an-
other direction, a different effect ought to be produced
upon the body. But, according to the representations of
this blind lady, nothing of this kind occurs. But per-
mit me to pass on to more important facts.
I observed in the last lecture, that Professor Saunder-
soN frequently went out with his pupils in the evenings,
to communicate to them a knowledge of the starry hea-
vens ; that the blind lady mentioned by M. Baczko, as
well as Mademoiselle Para dies, went about their re-
spective houses like persons possessed of sight, and did
the same in strange houses, after having been once or
twice in them ; that the latter conducted herself in a
manner so easy and unconstrained, that her friends were
frequently deceived, and conversed with her as with a
person who saw ; that the former took charge of all the
domestic business. I made you acquainted with the his-
tory of the Swedish peasant, who, although blind, went
alone to the forest, cut down timber, &c. And, finally,
I told you the story of the blind-born Metcalf, who
was first a carrier ; then a guide ;
who, in the darkness
of night, and when the ground was deeply covered with
snow, acted as a guide to persons who possessed their
sight ; who afterwards became surveyor of the roads in a
pathless hilly district, and traversed the country alone with
the assistance of his long staff, investigated the situation
and form of the ground, planned several new roads over
mountainous tracts, was considered the most intelligent
man in his profession, and was much employed in it.
Truly these are operations enough, quite similar to those,
if not surpassing them, which astonished us in the som-
nambulists, and only differing from them in this, that the
latter were more bold, more extraordinary, more danger-
118 LECTURE VI.
oiis, and evinced less of any determinate object. I will
not repeat what I formerly said of the hypothesis which
ascribes these actions of the somnambulists to an exalted
sensibility of the organ of feeling. The observations I
formerly made are still completely applicable here ;
for, if
it is once admitted that this sense cannot in any way
supply the place of the eyes, while proceeding in a straight
direction upon unknown paths, no exercise can ever en-
able it to do so. Let us only dwell a little on the opera-
tions of the blind surveyor of roads. When any one,
like him, traverses pathless mountains, climbs steep hills,
and proceeds through deep valleys, he must have before
him the respective situations of the different objects, the
way he proposes to go, and that which he has already
passed, and continually compare them with those notions
which exist in his imagination. And in all this, his sense
of touch, however constantly exercised, could not be of
the slightest use to him. For here he requires, at every
step, a consciousness of the particular spot upon which he
happens to stand, and the direction of the way by which
he is to proceed farther. Without eyes, or something
that can supply their place in a more perfect manner than
the other senses, he would be like a mariner on an exten-
sive open sea without a compass. Give the latter all
the other means for prosecuting his voyage—let him use
his sounding line as assiduously as possible—let him ob-
serve the distance he has traversed, the nature and depth of
the bottom, &c., all this will not enable him to discover
his latitude, or assist him in his farther progress. For
this he requires the constant use of the compass, just as
the blind man, in order to keep the right direction, on
such paths, would require the use of his eyes. Farther,
this blind traveller, in order to proceed with safety, must
possess a knowledge of all the obstacles which lie in his
way, by which he may avoid or sunnount them. These
must be present to his mind, as well as to his body ; the
picture of the landscape, with all its minute parts, must
be constantly before his soul, and always continue in har-
mony with that which lies before his imagination ; both
ON SOMNAMBULISM. 119
must. change in the same way ; and here, how could his
touch or any other sense assist him ? Consider also his
business as a guide over the snow in a dark night, when
the road becomes quite different from what it was, and,
therefore, he could derive no assistance from his previous
knowledge of the localities acquired through the touch,
and when it is not easy to comprehend how he, without
the use of his eyes, or something that might supply their
place, could find his own way, far less act as a guide for
others. For this last purpose, we should not be disposed
to select a man who was himself obliged to grope in the
dark, and has to seek his way by feeling. Lastly, throw
a glance into the soul of this man who was about to con-
struct a road through a wild, pathless district, taking the
best possible direction, avoiding every thing that could
make a road inconvenient, difficult, or expensive, and
choosing the shortest and most suitable line :
—What a
detailed plan of the country must he not have had in his
contemplation ! how correct and definite must it not have
existed in his mind, in order to enable him, amidst such
various difficulties, to effectuate his object I
But have the goodness to accompany me to the other
operations of these blind persons, and, first of all, to
their manual labours. All the three ladies, whom I no-
ticed, sewed, knitted, and performed other female work.
Nay, one of them even wrote correctly—the lines all
straight—the letters at equal distances from each other
;
and this at all times, in the dark as well as in day-light
:
Of the two blind chemists, mentioned by Diderot in
his letter suf les Aveugles, and by Dr Bew, the first
wrought at the turning-lathe, and employed himself with
needle-work. The favourite employment of the other, in
his earlier years, was mechanics ;—he was expert at
turning, and constructed for himself a small windmill
and a weaving loom. The blind peasant, described in
the thirty-fourth volume of the Stockholm Transactions,
manufactured all kinds of articles —carts, carriages,
sledges—melted and hardened iron—^made knives, with
forks and small saws in the handles—made shoes—sewed
120 LECTDRE VI.
and threaded his needle—built a house for himself;—
to say nothing of several other operations mentioned in
the previous lecture. Let us consider these operations
a little more closely. I will not dwell upon the employ-
ments of the two chemists, as chemists, however much
they might assist my argument. Those who are ac-
quainted with the manipulations of this art are aware
how much depends upon the nicest exactness, and how
much, in the different experiments, from the easiest and
most simple to the most difficult and most complicated,
the colours of the substances employed, and the changes
they imdergo, must be taken into consideration, and how
often such an artist, if deprived of sight, may not only
run the risk of failure, but sometimes expose himself to
dangerous consequences.
From these two individuals, I proceed immediately to
the mechanical labours of those other persons I have
mentioned. These blind persons, then, are supposed to
be guided hy feeling ; for, in them, the other senses can-
not be taken into account. Let us consider a little more
narrowly what it is that we can perfonn with our hands,
when engaged in the exercise of any art, any mechanical
labour ; and how far the mind alone can direct our hand,
without the assistance of the eye. We shall probably
find that, in this case, the object to be handled is either,
in respect to us, immovable ;
—the space between it and
our body, the relation, situation, and direction of the hand,
in regard to the object, remain the same ;
—or it must
be easily found again, if the whole business is not to
stand still. Sight alone gives a certain steadiness to it,
in all changes which the different substances undergo,
during the operation, in the hands of the mechanic or the
artist. By means of this sense, every displacement, every
change of situation is immediately perceived ; the whole
relation of the object, in respect to our hand, and in re-
spect to other bodies, is constantly present to the mind,
with all its minute particulars ; and the latter can, at
every moment, direct the movements of the hand and
fingers, according to the purpose we may have in view,
ON SOMNAMBULISM. 121
and enable us to realise our particular objects. From
the natm-e of the thing, no other sense can supply the
place of that of vision, however much it may be exercised.
Mental perceptions of objects present in space, which
are constantly changing their position relative to each
other and to us, cannot be uninterruptedly contemplated
unless through the medium of the eye, or of something
which supplies its place.
From what has been said you will be able to compre-
hend how a blind person may play very skilfully upon an
instrument—the flute, for example, or the organ,—or
may become a great musician, without requiring visual
perceptions. For the instrument stands firm, or may be
placed in a firm position. He knows, from practice,
where every key of the harpsichord lies, where every
hole of the flute is to be found, what space his hand has
to traverse from the one to the other ;
and, by custom and
long practice, the intervals of time, the exertion of force,
and the direction of its application, become so familiar,
that he frequently leaves the sight-enjoying man far be-
hind him, as many blind virtuosi have more than suffi-
ciently proved. But take only one of the arts or manual
operations,—only one of the common handiworks, of
which the blind Swedish peasant performed so many,
—
for example, the manufacture of a pocket-knife with a
fork and small saw ; think of the labour connected with
the forging of iron—the constantly changing position and
form of the red-hot iron, following no fixed and constant
rule ; how little capable are the other senses of directing
the artist, and conducting his hand, during the gradual
change which the iron undergoes. Pass on to the rest
—
the hammering, filing, polishing, &c.—and you will find
operations all of which require activity of the organ of
vision, in order to attain their object in any degree.
Think of the manufacture of shoes, the sewing, threading
the needle, &c.—then of all the other manual operations
necessary to the construction of a mill, as performed by
the blind Dr Moyes, and the building of a house by the
Swedish peasant ; think of the regular and elegant writ-
122 LECTURE VI.
ing of the bhnd lady described in Unzer's Arzt, and
the careful revisal and correction of what she had written •
and 1 beheve you will be forced to confess with me, that,
m these mstances, the operations could not be ascribed
to the touch, the hearing, or the smell, but that there
must be some other guide, which, when deprived of vi-
sion, supplies the place of the eye.
Again, many sensations and expressions of the blmd
demonstrate an activity of the imagination, and its occu-
pation with representations of external objects. But all
ot these belong to the sphere of those of which the ma-
terials are furnished by the eye. The ear cannot pre-
sent us with these materials ; for it can give us no idea
ot things placed beside each other in space. Neither can
the touch. This last only suggests to us notions of re-
sistance, and its various modifications,—of its presence or
absence, of hardness and softness, of the length, breadth,
and figure of a body. When representative perceptions
enter the mind, they always perfectly resemble those we
acquire through the medium of the eye, or of some ade-
quate substitute for it.
After premising this remark, I might here appeal to
the frequent dreams of M. Baczko, who, although blind
for eighteen years, always dreams that he sees. But I
pass him bye, because it might be not unreasonably ob-
jected to me, that the principal elements of these fanciful
representations might have already become familiar to
him before he lost his sight. As little will I make any
use of the preference which Mademoiselle Paradies
gives to one beautiful landscape over another, because this
preference might be ascribed to the purer air, the singing
of the birds, the muiTnuring of the water, &c. I am dis-
posed to attach greater importance to those manifestations
of sesthetic gratification which this lady, as well as the
other blind persons described in Fest's Beytrcige, ex-
hibited when feeling beautiful statues. The mere grati-
fication they experienced from the minute nuances of
form, which the delicacy of their touch enabled them to
distinguish, could not produce in them the sensations and
ON SOMNAMBULISM. 123
notions which, according to their expressions, they must
have thence acquired. That, at the first touch, the en-
tire countenance of the one hiind person assumes the
same expression as that of a person who sees, at the first
glance—this presupposes something more than can be
communicated by the hearing and the touch. The fact,
that Mademoiselle Paradies recognises, at once frown-
ing, weeping, laughing, calm and composed countenances,
presupposes" that she is capable of acquiring ideas of the
particular expression which these difi"erent passions and
states of the mind produce in the countenance. But her
waking dreams are completely decisive in respect to the
presence of those representative perceptions, and, in fa-
vour of my argument, throw an advantageous light upon
the phenomena just mentioned. That she excites in her
imagination certain caricatures—that these assume all
varieties of countenance, e.g. fat cheeks with snub noses,
hollow cheeks, countenances expressive of envy, avarice,
pride, &c.—that, in her melancholy hours, she sometimes
sees such countenances, nay, entire figures, as inspire her
with terror :— all this demonstrates the existence of im-
pressions for which visual perceptions only, or something
equivalent to them, could furnish the materials. For
such images must have, if not colours, at least hght and
shade, which render one part more prominent than ano-
ther, and, by their various combinations and strength,
give to such figures, and to all their parts, their appro-
priate form and perfection. Here, then, are perceptions
which manifestly belong to the sphere of sight. How
can such be acquired by a mind which has no idea of
light and darkness, and of the difference between them ?
Not from previous visual perceptions preserved in the
imagination. I conceive myself perfectly entitled to
place dancing also—which was the favoui'ite amusement
of Mademoiselle Paradies—among those actions which
presuppose such perceptions. This art requires a con-
stant local perception of the place where it is exercised,
of the motions of the other parties engaged in the same
exercise, and of their various positions. Our steps must
124 Lecture vi.
be measured according to those of the other parties, and,
for this purpose, the rule can be given only by the eye
our relative position must correspond with theirs, and our
movements must be hannonious. These are all circum-
stances which presuppose, in the mind of Mademoiselle
Paradies, representative perceptions of what was going
on around her. All this is still more applicable to her
passion for the theatre, and to the characters which she
herself undertook to represent upon the stage. If these
be played in a truthful, natural, and appropriate manner,
the player must necessarily have a representative percep-
tion of the whole position, direction, and expression of
the other actors, and also of the theatre itself. I might
say the same, and more, in regard to the game of chess.
And this game was very well played by the blind person
mentioned by Wetzel. The player must have his at-
tention constantly fixed upon the whole field of battle,
and the position of every piece ; and the blind person,
if he does not continually acquire such visual impressions
in a way unknown to us, which correspond with the ob-
jects before him, must, at least, at the commencement,
have had a perception of the whole chess-board ; and al-
ways remember every move made by himself and his ad-
versary, and all the changes thereby produced, and be
able, every moment, to combine the whole, so as to
discover the plans of his antagonist, to fmstrate them,
and to take advantage of his errors and unskilfulness.
At every move he must have perceptions in regard to the
distance of the pieces from each other, and the state of
the chess-board. But what does all this imply, than, in
other words—he must be able to see the chess-board.
Finally, in investigating these alleged visual percep-
tions of the blind, I must draw your attention to the con-
duct of Mademoiselle Pauadies in regard to many
things relating to colours, and comparison of colours, and
to the assthetic pleasure or displeasure thence derived.
She herself selects the colours as well as the materials
for her dress, and her choice appears to coincide with
that of every other person of taste. She herself would
ON SOMNAMBULISM. 125
never wear unharmonious colours, or such as did not be-
come her ; and she had her own httle vanities in regard
to dress, as well as other ladies. Her choice is so taste-
ful, that even her friends appear to forget that she is
blind, and take her advice in making their own purchases ;
nay, they are not satisfied when the article displeases her.
Here we have an opinion upon things, which can be
recognised by the mind only through the medium of the
eye—ideas of what is suitable, especially in regard to
colours ; a comparison of several coloui-s with each other,
and with reference to the individual who is to wear them ;
and an agreement in opinion with the latter upon subjects
of which other persons can only judge by means of the
eye. To be successful in the selection of things which
can only please as objects of sight—to choose that which
is pleasing to the eyes of others by merely feeling with
the fingers ;—this would be bringing quite heterogeneous
ideas into the minds of two persons, and then educing
the same result in respect of JBsthetical feeling. There-
fore, there must be some other means of perception to
supply the place of sight.
I conceive that the objection arising from the explana-
tions hitherto given with regard to the origin of the per-
ception of somnambulists, and against my hypothesis, is
now sufficiently obviated. Not only has the possibility
been shown that the mind may continue to acquire sensi-
tive perceptions even without the use of the appropriate
organs, but that this may daily happen, under certain cir-
cumstances, in men as well as in other animals, in refer-
ence to our most important and most artificially con-
structed sense. I may now be permitted to go farther,
and proceed to answer the question : By what means can
the mind of the sleep-walker acquire visual perceptions,
if it does not obtain them through the medium of the eye ?
The most natural solution which occurs to an unpreju-
diced person, is to assume the existence of a sixth sense,
which is awakened in the blind, and supplies the place of
the eyes. About fifteen years ago, the magnetisers of the
school of PuYSEGUR fell upon an idea of this kind, which
126 LECTURE VI.
they regarded as the only means of explaining many ex-
traordinary phenomena which they observed in their som-
nambulists. And this idea seemed to derive confii-ma-
tion from the expressions of the somnambulists themselves.
Nay, they pointed out the particular situation of this new
sense, and placed it in the great abdominal nervous plexus ;
and to this opinion they were led by the assertions of se-
veral such persons, and by many striking facts. It is
well known that this idea was received, at the time, with
ridicule and contempt, by the greatest part of the philo-
sophical and medical public, until Spallanzani's curi-
ous experiments on bats taught them a different lesson.
In the midst of such a mass of undeniable facts, some-
thing of a new sense must have been assumed, or the
matter must have been left unexplained ; and many phi-
losophers, it is well known, unwillingly adopt the latter
alternative. A new sense, therefore, was ascribed to
these animals ; and all naturalists, so far as I know,
adopted this hypothesis, as the only means of explaining
the new phenomena. But this new sense must remain
the exclusive property of these animals. They could not
bring themselves to ascribe any such thing to man. Only
the French magnetisers, and their followers, entertained
such a belief.
But if we direct our serious attention to this hypothe-
sis, we shall find that it had its foundation only in the
rage for explanation peculiar to our age—that a dark
enigma is attempted to be solved by something else cer-
tainly not a whit clearer—by taking away an occult qua-
lity, and placing another as occult in its stead—by en-
deavouring to interpret nature, and leaving it in complete
obscm-ity. In assuming a sense—if we do not give a
new and unusual signification to the word—we must pre-
suppose nerves that, in the way and maimer in which they
terminate, are modified and disposed so as to be suscepti-
ble of the influence of particular corporeal sthmiU, to be
able to communicate these impressions to the mind, and
thus produce in it certain sensations of a peculiar nature.
.
This is what we invariably find in the case of all senses
ON SOMNAMBULISM. 127
—what appears to be essential to them—and to which we
must resort when we speak of a sense, if we do not mean
to play with words. Besides, every sense has its own pe-
culiar mechanism, more simple or more complex, accord-
ing as its appropriate stimuli, before they affect the nerves,
must previously undergo certain modifications. Let us
see now how far the assumption of a new sense will assist
us in explaining the phenomena which occur in bats, in
somnambulists, and in the blind.
Let us take a particular nerve as the representative of the
eye—^for we cannot ascribe this privilege to all the nerves
of the skin, and recognise in man, as in several insects, a
multiplicity of eyes ;—let us, for a moment, assume, with
the magnetisers, that the great nervous plexus in the ab-
dominal region is the proper seat of this new sense—for
it is a matter of indifference, in the end, where we place
it, —and we shall, without difficulty, see that we can ex-
pect absolutely nothing from it of all that is performed
by the eye, with all its muscles and humours, the ear
with all its constituent parts, and both with their respec-
tive nerves. The light cannot reach that rieYYOu.?, plexus ;
it would be pi'eviously absoi'bed by the clothes : It can-
not penetrate through the skin, the muscles, and the in-
tervening parts. The rays of light cannot combine
—
cannot become an image ; nor can they be, in any way,
to these nerves what they were to the optic nerve. As
little can this nerve supply the place of the auditory
nerve, as is supposed. For neither the rays of light,
nor the undulations of the air—whose motions, for the
most part, cease upon contact with the clothes—can pro-
duce any effect upon the nerves. And even if both
—
light as well as air—could penetrate thither in some in-
comprehensible manner, yet it is well known that these
nerves are adapted to the influence of quite different sti-
muli., to the production of quite different sensations, and,
moreover, to quite different functions, and are, therefore,
from their nature, not susceptible of impressions from
light and air ; and these nerves, even if capable of being
so affected, could not awaken the perceptions which the
128 LECTURE VI.
optic and auditory nerves convey by means of the stimuli
of light and air,
From what has been said, I trust you will have al-
ready perceived, that the assumption of such a new sense
does not advance us a single step towards an explanation
of the phenomena in question. Here there must exist
something quite different from what we are accustomed
to denominate sensible impression, an entirely different
species of communication between the mind and the ex-
ternal world, from that which occurs in our ordinary per-
ceptions. But to call this a new sense is an abuse of the
word. In this way, therefore, we have no chance of
success. But if we must have an explanation, I can re-
commend nothing better than a recourse to the high ideas
of Leibnitz, and to contemplate our mind, and its rela-
tion to the external world, from the same or a similar
point of view as that from which he regarded it. If we
assume, for example, that our perceptions arise in the
mind by virtue of their own proper laws, as if in a pecu-
liar world ; that these perceptions, conform to the inter-
nal principle, arise in the same series, and with the same
consecutiveness as the external material objects ; that
matter does not influence our mind, but is all illusion ;
that only a continual harmony can subsist between the
train of our perceptions and the succession of the objects
around us ; and, therefore, that all beings of our species
represent the phenomena of the universe according to the
same necessary sequence, because they all possess the
same nature ; —if we give in to this hypothesis, I think
we may comprehend how the blind and the somnambu-
lists may, without the use of the eyes, perform the same
operations as the individuals who are possessed of sight.
For in both the one and the other, the motions of their
bodies are regulated according to the consecutive ideas
of their minds. Now, if these have not their origin in
the sensible world of the individual, the one may occur
to us independently of the other—the principal organ of
sense, which appeared to connect them together, may
have been annihilated or become useless—the succession
ON SOMNAMBULISM. 129
of our ideas still continues the same, because this sepa-
ration is only apparent, and the chasm, which we think
we have now observed for the first time, was already in
existence. Whether this mode of explanation may be
more satisfactory to you than those we previously ex-
amined, I know not. With regard to myself, I freely
confess my ignorance in this matter, and desire not to
comprehend things which belong to another, supersensible
world, the nature of which transcends the limits of our
present cognitive faculties.
I
( 130 ),
LECTURE VII.
In my last lectui-e, I candidly confessed, that the phe-
nomena, of which we have been hitherto investigating
the origin, are placed beyond the domain of our present
knowledge and comprehension ; and that we should find
it difficult to arrive at such an explanation as would
throw full light upon them, and bring them into har-
mony with our usual experience.
But to what purpose, then, have we entered into so
circumstantial an analysis of these phenomena, if it is to
lead us no farther,—if it only takes, and does not give ?
This, I think, is a question which no reasonable person
will ask. On the contrary, it might appear somewhat
meritorious to have impartially investigated the limits of
our knowledge, to have unmasked false hypotheses, and
here, also, to have separated truth from illusion. More-
over, this analysis of the natm'al somnambulism has no
small value in reference to the right appreciation of the
artificial, which is often produced by animal magnetism,
and which, therefore, belongs to the subject of these
lectures. And, after the rejection of previous hypotheses,
assuredly nobody will expect that I should now advance
a new one, which might easily share the fate of its pre-
decessors, and be overthrown, in a similar manner, by
some new fact, or some different view of the subject. I
hope, however, to be able to make ample compensation
for the chimera of which we have been deprived. It is
to be hoped that truth may ultimately spring out of these
anomalies. They conduct us to another, perhaps a more
enlai-ged view of nature and of man ;
many a controverted
or already rejected fact may be rescued ; and our con-
ON SjOMNAMBULISM. 131
templation of the objects of the supersensible world, so
far as it extends, may acquire more interest and reality.
We shall thereby be drawn back from the external world
to a world within om-selves, which is subject to other
conditions, which is not boimd down by the laws of ma-
terial nature, which is uninfluenced by the powers of the
latter, and whose immortality we may anticipate, although
we be daily witnesses of the annihilation of our visible
being. This, then, may be the subject of my present
lecture, and the conclusion of our whole investigation ;
—
a conclusion, it is hoped, neither uninteresting in itself,
nor unworthy of our attention.
If it be once demonstrated, and proved by the foregoing
series of observations, that the human soul, in certain
states, manifests itself quite differently from what we ex-
perience in the ordinary conditions of life—if, in these
circumstances, it does not appear to require the aid of
those auxiliaries which are considered necessary to the
exercise of certain functions in the normal state of ex-
istence—we have good reason to distrust the certainty of
our supposed knowledge of its nature. If we have once
laid open a gap in this knowledge, especially in that part
where it is apparently most secure, the same thing might
happen also in other parts, and we should then have no
reason to place much confidence in the system we had
constructed in regard to man, the nature of his perceptive
faculty, and the laws which regulate the exercise of his
mental powers. This system, at the utmost, would only
apply to that particular state from which we deduce it.
If the individual passes into other states, in which his
soul does not stand exactly in the same relation towards
his body, it would be preposterous to apply the same laws
to those states which we have deduced from relations al-
together dissimilar. We must then consider that we
have to do with a supersensible being, of which our
knowledge is acquired only from experience, and that the
same state, the same conditions, the same relative circum-
stances must exist, if we wish to found upon this experi-
ence. But when we stumble upon phenomena which ap-
132 LECTURE VII.
pear inconsistent with our ordinary knowledge of the ac-
tions and manifestations of this supersensible being, the
first thing we have to consider is, whether the condition
of the individual be not here quite different ; and should
we find that this is really the case, it would be unjust to
impugn or reject these phenomena, upon the sole ground,
that they are not reducible to the same laws we have
deduced from other states. It is true, that the more
they are in-econcileable with these laws, they ought to be
the more sharply scrutinized ;
not, indeed, in regard to
their comprehensihility, but to their historical truth—in
respect to the number and competency of the witnesses
who observe them, and the exactness and frequent repe-
tition of the experiments and observations. If this method
liad been adopted in the investigation of those striking
phenomena which, during nearly twenty years, have ex-
cited the attention of a portion of the public in Germany,
France, and Switzerland,*—I allude to the artificial som-
nambulism,—many severe and unjust judgments would
have been spared, innocence would not have been so be-
spattered with bitter ridicule and calumny, and deception
and illusion would not have been alleged in circumstances
where truth and reality may ultimately be found ; nay,
this truth might have been sooner brought to light, and
the real separated from all exaggeration, the important
and useful from the insignificant and hurtful, the certain
and incontrovertible from the doubtful and disputed. Had
a proper status causes been early framed, instead of be-
ing neglected ; had the main points been distinguished
from their accessories, and the circumstances common to
all combined into a ichole ; philosophers would have dis-
covered, by an impartial investigation, an unusual condi-
*
Since the time when Wienholt wrote, nearly forty }'ears have
elapsed, and the phenomena in question have been observed, m a
great variety of instances, not in Germany, France, and Switzerland
onlv, but also in Russia, Denmark, Sweden, Holland, and the Nether-
lands, Italy, and the Italian islands, England, America,—m short,
in almost every part of the civilized world. Yet, strange to sijy,
many pretended learned men will not acknowledge the truth—will
not even investigate.—(T^'ww^.)
ON SOiMNAMBULlSM. 133
tion of the mental organ, and a state of the body very
different from that of the natural, waking man. We
should then have had a solid foundation for the future
construction of an edifice. This would, at the same time,
have led to a more rigorous inquiry into the causes of the
phenomena,—many of those alleged might have been ex-
cluded, others rendered doubtful ; and that which has
been established by the laborious experiments of a Gal-
VANi, a Humboldt, &c. as the main-spring of the
animal machine—and to a better knowledge of which we
are conducted by their investigations—might have been
long since acknowledged, although in consequence of a
diffei'ent process, as the only true cause. Had an ade-
quate idea been formed of the actual condition of the in-
dividual—a conviction that, in this state, there existed a
totally different relation between the soul, the body, and
external nature, than that which subsists in the waking
state; a different mode of operation would necessarily
have been anticipated. If philosophers had given them-
selves the trouble to compare similar morbid states re-
corded by physicians, according to the rules of a sound
logic, they would have there found the principal pheno-
mena, and probably have ceased, at an earlier period, to
reject them as absurd falsehoods, deceit, and illusion.
The conduct actually pursued, in regard to this matter, is
but too well known, and it were unnecessary for me to
dwell upon it. I shall, at present, confine myself to some
observations upon the artificial somnambulists ; in so far
as their case relates to our subject.
All those who have attentively and repeatedly observ-
ed these persons, or who have carefully perused the
writings of the magnetisers, must have perceived a coin-
cidence between the natural and the artificial somnambu-
lism, so far as the recorded phenomena relate to the con-
dition of the organ of vision and visual perceptions. In
both cases, the eyes are firmly closed, and when an at-
tempt is designedly made to open either of them, the
muscles oppose resistance—considerable violence must be
employed. The muscles of the eye-balls are in a spas-
134 LECTURE VII.
modic state : The cornea is turned upwards towards one
of the angles of the eye, and remains immovable. A
lighted candle held before the eye makes no impression
upon it. At the same time, all is clear before the eyes of
these persons, whether by day or by night. They have
visual perceptions only of certain things, and even of
these not at all times. Notwithstanding, they securely
walk along known or unknown, straight or crooked,
smooth or rugged paths, with as much ease and freedom
as persons completely awake, avoiding all obstacles.
They distinguish colours by means of their fingers, but
without touching the objects ;
they read, write, sew, knit,
recognise many things, and perform a variety of opera-
tions with their eyes shut, for which the use of this organ
is required in the waking man.
All these facts, I trust, will not no,w be met by the
only, or, at least, the principal argument formerly urged
against them—the argument of incomprehensibility.
Now that I have communicated more than one series of
undoubted facts, all converging to one point—all tending
to demonstrate the physical possibility, nay, the ac-
tual existence of these facts ; such an objection must ne-
cessarily fall to the ground, and, with it, all the ridicule
which abortive wit has so copiously thrown upon the
subject of vision without the assistance of the eyes, and
which must now be imputed to the utter ignorance of
those from whom it proceeded. The historical credibi-
lity will then be a matter of Httle difficulty. At least, the
experiments which have been made in Bremen—which,
however, must be distinguished from mere popular ru-
mour—are liable, so far as I am aware, to no objection.
All the physicians of this place, I believe, who conde-
scended to a serious investigation of the matter, became
convinced of the reality and truth of the facts ;* and
their judgment has been corroborated by the testimony
" Bremen was the town of theTauthor's residence. Among the
individuals who assisted Wienholt in his magnetic experiments,
was Dr Olbers, the celebrated astronomer, and an intimate friend
of the author.—(rimsZ.)
ON SOMNAMBULISM. 135
of many eminent individuals in other parts of Europe.
And thus we have again a new series of phenomena of
the same import, which coincide with those previously
observed ;
giving and receiving from each other mutual
support and confirmation. But if this first and most im-
portant circumstance in regard to somnambulists be con-
sidered as established—if it can no longer be denied that
the natural somnambulist, even without the use of his
eyes, can acquire the same perceptions of external objects
as are usually obtained through the medium of that or-
gan ; the difficulty we meet with in many of the pheno-
mena presented by the artificial somnambulists will be
greatly diminished. It will no longer be attempted to be
denied, that the powers of the soul, in this state, undergo
a very extraordinary exaltation—that the imagination, the
wit, and the memory become clearer, more comprehensive,
and more acute—that the actions and discoui'se of these
individuals are very different from those we observe in
their ordinary state. In respect, also, to the other so
much controverted phenomena occurring in the magnetic
somnambulists, of which, it would appear, no trace has
been found in the natural crisis,* the incomprehensibility
might gradually disappear, when the previous equally in-
comprehensible facts could no longer be disproved, and
we had succeeded in reducing the others to their proper
form and dimensions, in getting rid of all exaggeration,
and, after repeated experiments, acquiring a more just
and accurate notion of their nature. There are many
other phenomena in human nature, in which the soul
plays the principal part, and which have shared the same
fate with the phenomena of somnambulism—they have
been entirely rejected, or subjected to an unsatisfactory
explanation, such as those I have been hitherto elucidat-
ing. When regarded from this point of view, these
might now reasonably demand revision.t But the
* More extensive and accurate observation has shewn that all of
these peculiar phenomena may be found in both states—many of
them m other affections.—('IVcmmZJ
t This is perfectly true. Animal magnetism has opened up a
136 LECTURE VII.
consideration of these subjects would carry me too far
out of my way, and prevent me from drawing some not
unimportant conclusions from the propositions I have al-
ready advanced—conclusions which, it appears to me,
flow easily and without constraint, from the premises.
I should think that, after the observations reported
from such various quarters, and which I have communi-
cated to you in my previous lectures, I am now entitled
to hold it as demonstrated, that our soul, if it has once
acquired perceptions through the medium of the eye, may
afterwards, in an incomprehensible manner, indeed, and
without the use of this organ, receive similar impressions,
and continue to remain in the same connection with the ex-
ternal world, in which it had previously stood by means
of light and natural vision.
Many cultivated men, to whom an insight into their
own internal economy is of some value, and who also oc-
casionally cast a look forward into futm-ity, believe in
the independence of the thinking principle within them
upon the grosser body, and in the prolonged existence of
the former, after the latter has here found its grave.
Many others look upon it as the result of a wonderful com-
bination of physical powers, which ceases as soon as these
separate, and that the whole system thence arising again
becomes resolved into its component parts. A great pro-
portion of those individuals who think of such subjects,
and to whom a higher faith does not impart repose and
certainty, waver in their opinions. They know not to
which side to lean, or, if they come to a decision, their
belief is a merely momentary conviction, which is continu-
ally liable to be overthrown by other arguments. And
indeed, when we consider the arguments by which both
parties, independently of any superior light, suffer them-
selves to be swayed, our knowledge of natm-e might pre-
new and a very extensive field of psychological speculation, and af-
forded us the means of observing and endeavouring to explain many
phenomena, which were formerly either considered altogether apo-
cryphal, or attempted to be accounted for in a very unsatisfactory
manner.
—
( Transl.)
ON SOMNAMBULISM. 137
vent us from being surprised at this difference of opinion
in regard to a matter of the highest importance, and at
this hesitation of the more cultivated portion of our spe-
cies.
Accordmg to the most ordinary daily experience, we
perceive in ourselves and others the closest connection
between the thinking and active principle within us, and
the more gross corporeal covering : and the most exact
harmony between the energy of the mind and the physi-
cal condition of our machine. The spiritual powers seem
to depend entirely upon those of the body. With the
latter, the former grow and develope themselves ;
with its
maturity, their maturity corresponds ; when it withers
and dies, they, too, sink and disappear. Our food, mode
of living, climate, poisons, medicines, &c. have so much
influence upon the increase, animation, and decrease of
our mental faculties ;
corporeal maladies so frequently
affect our intellectual powers, as well as our volition
—
weaken or even deprive us altogether of some spiritual
energy ; on the other hand, we have also instances where
disease has developed mental energy—given understand-
ing to the stupid, and intellectual powers to the idiot.
The faculties of the soul, too, appear, in many respects,
to be subjected to the same laws which govern the parts
of the body. By continued use and practice, both are
strengthened and increased ;
repose and inactivity dimi-
nish them ; and they are both liable to be exhausted by
too violent exertion. But the dependence of the think-
ing and willing principle within us upon the condition of
the brain is particularly remarkable. If the latter is suf-
fering from a mechanical or other physical cause, in con-
sequence of some serious disease in early years, we can
form no favourable anticipation of the intellectual deve-
loperfient. If the brain be stimulated by splinters of
bone, by inflammation, suppuration, &c.—if it be oppress-
ed by extravasated blood, or any other substance, if vio-
lently contused, &c. the activity of the previously healthy
intellect is immediately altered—its functions become law-
less, disorderly, or are altogether suppressed. If this
138 LECTURE VII.
cause be removed, the mind is restored to its former tone.
But the memory and the imagination are more especi-
ally dependent upon the brain. It frequently happens
that the individual is deprived of the former by apoplexy ;
it very often disappears after violent headach, or an in-
flammatory fever which principally affected the head.
Entire series of ideas are not unfrequently lost after a
serious injury of this part. Thus, many have been ren-
dered unable to read, and were obliged to leara their let-
ters anew ; others have forgotten certain parts of speech
—proper names, verbs, nouns, adjectives, &c.—nay, after
a time, the ideas and corresponding expressions have been
restored, &c.
But if this, my internal self, is so intimately united to
the visible part of my being, how can I be assured of the
prolonged existence of that higher element, which 1 only
know from self-consciousness, from its perceptions and
operations effectuated through the body—of which, how-
ever, I have no sensible, empirical notion, and which, after
the death of the body, leaves no trace of itself behind ?
How can I be assured of its continued activity, when the
machine, by means of which it operates, falls to pieces, and
the organs, which were indispensable to its thoughts and
actions, are annihilated ? Let the arguments for its im-
materiality—for the difference of its nature from that of
all other known objects—be ever so stringent ; let our
consciousness proclaim as loudly as possible : Here is
something entirely different from every specific part of
the body ;
—all these arguments merely go to prove the
total dilference of our soul from that which we call bodj-
—its existence and appropriate activity so long as it is
clothed with a body ; but not to demonstrate what it will
be, when the latter is destroyed.
And even if this soul continues to exist after the de-
stniction of the body, without the latter it can acquire
no new ideas, and it must lose those which it had previ-
ously acquired. But without ideas it is as good as non-
existing. For its sensitive organs die along with the
body, and through these alone did it acquire notions, and
ON SOMNAMBULISM. 139
stand in connection with nature and with kindred spirits.
All this ceases at death. The imagination and the me-
mory of man evidently depend as much upon the brain,
as his visual perceptions upon the eye. And this brain
is destroyed by death, and falls in pieces, like every other
part of the body. But with it all previous ideas and
knowledge vanish ;
and, without these, what is the value
of our future existence ? It is only by means of the me-
mory that we are conscious of our continued existence
—
that I am conscious of myself—as a being subsisting in
the same manner amidst all changes. With this faculty
all connection of the future world with the present ceases,
and, also, all responsibility—all morality. 1 do not see,
indeed, how the naturalist can extricate himself from these
doubts, if he remains true to his system, and does not
call in the assistance of miracles. The fine invisible
body, with which some physiologists envelope the soul,
and which, according to them, will continue to accom-
pany it after the grosser body is annihilated, cannot re-
move the difficulty. For, in the first place, this organ of
the soul, as it is called, is still a mere hypothesis, of
which experience does not afford us the slightest assur-
ance, and which, indeed, does not counterbalance the pre-
vious doubts. But, secondly, it is precisely the gross vi-
sible body with whose changes the soul, too, is similarly
affected, and it is this brain, also, with which the imagi-
nation and the memory stand and fall. Experience only
shows us the changes of these grosser corporeal parts,
and gives us no knowledge of that supposed invisible body,
with which the soul is said to be more closely invested.
Whatever answer may be made to this reasoning, the ob-
jection in question will always remain formidable and im-
portant. And even, should we come to be convinced, by
the former arguments, of the independence of the soul
—
if we could believe that we had found in them a proof of
its future independent existence, along with all its vari-
ous powers and endowments—which to me, however, ap-
pears to be by no means the case—yet the arguments
advanced by the materialist are of such a nature as, if
140 LECTURE VII.
not always, afc least frequently, to counterbalance the
others, if not to triumph over them. They are deduced
from experimental notions, quite certain, lying close be-
side us, and daily repeated—notions which every person
can comprehend, and which force themselves upon every
one as true. The other proofs consist, for the most part,
of a tissue of unsupported conclusions, and at last con-
duct us to a being which has no sensible existence. They
cannot be made clear to every person : and only to a few
individuals do they carry that distinctness, that life, that
cogency of conviction, which the others so readily impart.
However unwilling we may be to deny their force, a fear-
ful doubt will occasionally rise up in the bosom : Does
my existence then tenninate with death ?—a doubt which
even the loftiest arguments derived from our belief in a
Deity, and those advanced by a new school, drawn from
the ideas of right and duty implanted in our moral being,
and the antagonist fact of the disproportionate destiny of
mankind in the present world—are not always sufficient
to repress. Hence, probably, the prevalence of material-
ism among the higher classes, and even among philoso-
phers and physicians ;
hence, without an absolute denial,
yet a considerable degree of wavering ; and the over-
whelming thought, so frequently found in the breasts of
the best of men : Death is the termination of my exist-
ence—which can only be overcome by a firm faith in a
positive revelation.
But grant, for a moment, what I conceive I have prov-
ed : A sensitive organ, such as our eye, which is so ex-
quisitely adapted to that kind of sensations which it com-
municates to us—no part of which can be dispensed with
—none can be otherwise formed than it is—none can oc-
cupy a different position, if it is to be capable of produ-
cing visual perceptions ;—such an organ, as the foregoing
observations unquestionably demonstrate, may be wholly
incapable of performing its functions, and yet the soul
may receive—in a manner, indeed, to us incomprehensi-
ble—the same perceptions of the external world, as were
previously acquired through the medium of that organ.
ON SOMNAMBULISM. 141
If this be unquestionably true, then I may argue, with
perfect consistency, that man may also be deprived of
other organs, and yet be capable of performing the same
functions as he previously did only through their instru-
mentality. At least, I may hope, that the soul, which,
in these instances, was able to perceive external objects
without the assistance of the eyes, may still be capable
of doing the same, after it has cast off its " mortal
coil." But I argue farther : If an individual can acquire
visual perceptions without the assistance of the external
organ, it is equally possible that, in another state, he
may also be capable of thinking without the assistance
of the brain, and that his imagination and his memory
may not be indissolubly attached to this soft and so easily
destructible mass ; that, on the contrary, the soul, in the
exercise of its other functions, may as easily dispense with
the latter, as vision may be manifested without the eyes.
I shall then have decisively proved from experience that
the functions of the soul are not entirely dependent upon
the gross mass of the body ; and thus the phantom con-
jured up in favour of materialism will have lost the
greater part of its imposing but deceptive fonii. But as,
in this way, our future existence unquestionably acquires
more light, and, if I may be permitted the expression,
more intuitiveness from the phenomena presented to us
by somnambulists and blind persons, so does this antici-
pative hope, in regard to the futm-e, again lead us back
to the conclusion I formerly deduced from these pheno-
mena. The philosopher, also, who entertains a certain
expectation of his continued existence in a future life,
even when his present earthly habitation shall have been
annihilated, and who holds that memory is indispensable
to that continued spiritual existence, cannot possibly treat
with ridicule such observations as 1 have laid before you ;
he cannot consign them to the rank of improbable or im-
possible things. All that he could allege, in regard to
the improbability or physical impossibility of these facts
would equally militate against his faith, and dash it to the
ground.
142 LECTURE VII.
But in another, and, in my opinion, a very important
point of view, the phenomena of somnambulism assist
our argument in favour of the independence of our soul
upon the organism of the brain. In general, the som-
nambulist, upon awaking, knows nothing of what occur-
red to him in his sleep—nothing of his thoughts and ac-
tions. An impenetrable partition is interposed, which
completely separates the two states. The memory is, as
it were, in abeyance during the transition from sleep to
waking. It seems as if there were two different indivi-
duals, of whom the one was unknown to the other. Nay,
it would appear that, in this sleep, something more is in
abeyance
—
viz. the feeling of identity—this feeling so
deeply implanted in man, so firmly attached to him, so
closely interwoven with all his other ideas. He fre-
quently mistakes other persons as well as himself, and
looks upon himself and them as different persons from
what they really are. And, on the other hand, as we
learn from the cases previously mentioned, new spiritual
powers appear to be developed, or, at least, all the others
act with increased promptitude, vivacity, and energy.
This is abundantly evident from several of the examples
I formerly quoted, and still more from those collected
and referred to by M. Meiners—certainly not to the
discredit of magnetism, as he intended. Can the being
whose powers so easily change—at one time elevated, at
another partly suppressed—can such a being be the re-
sult of the organization of the brain ? The latter suf-
fers no change during sleep ; and with one species of
sleep we are now occupied. Every thing here remains
in the same relative situation, and invisible powers alone
are brought into play. It is only a different action of
the vital energy—an accumulation of it in some, and a
diminution in other parts—while the rest of the machine
continues unchanged; it is only this, according to the
opinion of the best physiologists, which constitutes the
chief difference in sleep and somnambulism ;
and this
opinion is placed beyond all doubt by the easy transition
from this to the walcing state, by the causes which pro-
OK SOMNAMBULISM. 143
mote and retard sleep, and by several of the phenomena
of sleep itself.
And if such a change of a power invisible to us, and
independent of the organization of the brain, can suspend
one of the most important faculties of the soul, can alter
our mode of knowing and perceiving, can elevate, strength-
en, animate, in a scarcely credible manner, the whole ener-
gies of the mind ; does not this manifestly demonstrate
the independence of the higher principle upon the visible
parts of the brain ? Amidst these phenomena, which stand
so little in harmony with the known laws of the corporeal
world, all those ingenious hypotheses, which have been
formed with a view to explain the operations of the per-
ceptive faculty, are shivered to atoms—from the ruder
material impressions and motions of some older authors
down to the cephalergis of later physiologists ; and they
necessarily conduct us to a quite different essence, distinct
from the body, and governed by other laws. But may
they not also teach us something more ? To me it al-
most appears that they lead us to the identity of this in-
visible principle—which gives life and activity to the
body, and without which the latter would revert to the
condition of an inorganic substance—the vital power, as
It has been called, with that more attenuated body which
more immediately invests the soul, through which it in-
fluences the grosser mass, and by means of which it again
experiences the changes which occur in the latter. It is
only this vital principle which undergoes change in sleep,
and m the relative state, and this change exerts so power-
ful an influence on the mind. In these circumstances,
therefore, we should be compelled to assume the exist-
ence of another mtemediate substance between this vital
power and the soul itself, and for this we have not the
slightest reason. This, indeed, would only be an unne-
cessary multiplication of principles. To all appearance,
as our feelings inform us, the soul is every where presen
nknP^^r
"^"^^"^^ =
this cannot take
£Z ir^i' *^""i^y
"^^^^^ «f '^'^ intimate con-
nection with the vital principle.
144 LECTURE VII.
From the phenomena presented to us by somnambu-
lists, too, some light falls upon those striking cases which
I formerly communicated, and which appeared demon-
strative of the independence of the soul upon the grosser
parts of the corporeal frame, especially the brain. For if
such important changes can take place in the mind, with-
out any influence of the body ; if these are produced by
a particular power in reality existing, but not immediately
affecting the senses—a power, however, which is some-
thing different from the soul itself ; if this power gene-
rally stands, at the same time, in intimate connection with
the "visible parts of the body and the brain ;
it then be-
comes qtute comprehensible how, when corporeal injuries
and diseases of these last affect that attenuated substance,
its alteration here, as in the former case (in somnanabu-
lism), may be followed by an alteration in the condition
of the thinking faculty. In this way, the corresponding
increase and diminution of the brain and the intellectual
faculties, and the dependence of the condition of the mind
upon the body, might be merely apparent, and only indi-
cate the change which has taken place in the intermedi-
ate organs.
But leaving these perhaps too fanciful ideas for more
certain conclusions—it appears to me that the high per-
fectibility of our intellectual faculties flows directly and
unconstrained from the investigation in which we have
been engaged. You have seen how the mmd became ele-
vated in these different classes of individuals, although
deprived of the most important means of its cultivation.
Almost all of those blind persons, whom I have noticed,
were virtuosi in their different departments. And how
many such may have existed who are only noticed by tra-
dition ; how many may have existed, and still exist, whose
minds were equally cultivated, but whose names are un-
known to history ! To judge from several instances, it
almost appears that the blind, if their education were pro-
perly attended to, and they were not, as is usually the
case! set aside and neglected, could be elevated even
to a higher rank, in respect to their mtellectual cultiva-
ON SOMNAMBDILISM. 145
tion, than they would have attained with the use of their
eyes. What an idea does not this give us of the versa-
tiUty, the independent activity, and subUme nature of our
soul ! It is deprived of the most important organ of its
perfectibility ; it can dispense with it, and supply its
place ; it can change the functions of others—and this is
the least that I can suppose in all the examples I have al-
leged—form them to its service, and accomplish its pur-
poses without the assistance of its usual auxiliaries ; nay,
the cultivation of all its faculties proceeds with greater
rapidity, and attains a higher degree of developement
;
and new modes of perception become apparent, in which,
without those repeated observations, we could scarcely
have beheved. And if we look to the other class of in-
dividuals—the somnambuUsts—how are their spiritual fa-
culties exalted ? How comes it that their imagination is
so much more vigorous and comprehensive than usual ?
How does their memory stretch back, and clearly repre-
sent to them periods of time, of which, in their waking
state, they possessed only an obscure reminiscence, or
which had entirely vanished from their mind ? How
much deeper are their impressions and feelings ! how
much sharper and more delicate their wit I how much
more appropriate and precise their language I It is no
uncommon thing for somnambulists, in their paroxysms,
to compose essays superixjr to what they were capable of
producing in their waking state, which they themselves
read with astonishment on the following day, and will
not acknowledge to be their own work. Finally and
this is the most important circumstance of all their mo-
ral sense—this noblest and most valuable faculty of the
human soul—is invariably more acute, more delicate, and
more exalted, than in their waking state. And all this
while one or more of the windows of the soul are closed
up !—Verily ! these phenomena cast a new light on our
future existence. If the perfection of our soul, and the
improvement of its faculties, become more conspicuous on
the abolition of our sensitive organs, it is not incredible
that, on being disengaged from the whole of its heavy ex-
K
146 LECTURE VII.
teraal mantle—or, to use the expression of Jean Paul,
on the complete removal of those leaden shoes, which are,
indeed, necessary to us in this state of existence—our
spiritual I will become more fully developed, will shine
forth with a stronger and more brilliant lustre. And if
this be true, to what may it not attain, when a new body
and new organs shall have been conferred upon it, which
oppose no barrier to its progressive developement ;
deprive
it of nothing ; hold it not in fetters ; but rather tend to
lighten all its efforts—to support and assist its progress !
Yes, truly ! here our prospect is extended—a prospect
which is not the mere creation of a wayward fancy, but
is founded on experience ;—a prospect not new, indeed,
to the Christian, to whom his Sacred Scriptures have long
unfolded it ; and who, even now, beholds his brightest
hopes brought into perfect harmony with the phenomena
of Nature.
APPENDIX.
" Strange state of being ! (for 'tis still to be)
—
Senseless to feel, and with seal'd eyes to see."
Byron.
The few cases referred to by Wienholt, in the fore-
going lectures, as demonstrative of the fact, that the
perception of external objects has been known to occur,
occasionally, without the exercise of ordinary vision, ought
to be sufficient, we should imagine, to produce conviction
in the mind of every reasonable and unprej udiced man
—
of every person who is accessible to the influence of evi-
dence. Nor will it be denied that the establishment of
this fact is a matter of great importance to physiological
science.
In the Appendix to Isis JRevelata, No. II., the author
of that and of the present publication, in order to remove
every possible pretext for scepticism or cavil on the sub-
ject, thought proper to adduce a considerable number of
instances, in which the phenomenon in question had been
distinctly, unambiguously, and most attentively observed.
Hereupon, some of the least obstinate of the sceptics ap-
peared to be, somewhat reluctantly, convinced ; while
others were startled, at least, by the force of the evidence
brought forward ; and all were evidently staggered by
the strangeness and apparently inexplicable nature of the
148 APPENDIX.
fact itself. In reference to this matter, indeed, the judg-
ment of the public has never been free and unbiassed.
On the contrary, it has been constantly fettered by the
prejudices of habit and association, and by preconceived
opinions in regard to the possibility of the alleged fact.
Most persons would probably as soon expect to see a
man walking on the crown of his head, as to find him
exercising the faculty of vision without making use of
his eyes. Moreover, it happens, unfortunately for the
developement and recognition of the truth, that here, as
in other analogous instances, a numerous and influential,
although by no means a very liberal incorporation, have
been induced to consider the relative investigation of this
subject as injurious to their professional interests, and
have consequently employed every means in their power
to stifle all inquiry, to depreciate the labours of those
who are honestly engaged in it, and to represent the re-
sults obtained as false, delusive, and inconsistent with
philosophy, with physiology, and with common sense.
Such discreditable tactics, however, can only have a tem-
porary and a very partial success, besides being injurious,
in the end, to the reputation of such as resort to them.
Honesty in matters of science, as in the ordinary afiairs
of life, will, sooner or later, be found to be the best, as
well as the most honoui-able pohcy ; and the prejudiced
opponents of real and usefid knowledge will, assuredly,
meet their final and just reward in the general contempt
of all the intelligent and impartial portion of mankind.
In his preface to the present publication, the author
has endeavoured to shew, contrary to the vulgar and
prejudiced opinion, that there is nothing in the alleged
phenomenon of vision without the assistance of the eyes
which can be justly considered incompatible with the
soundest philosophy. Like the cosmological theory of
Copernicus and Galileo, indeed, it may be inconsistent
with our ordinary, every-day experience—with common
sense, in the vulgar acceptation of the word, if you will ;
but in extraordinary circumstances, and under certain
conditions, it cannot be shewn to be philosophically im-
APPENDIX. 149
possible ; it may be anomalous, but it involves no de-
monstrable absurdity ; like every other natural pheno-
menon, it is capable of being proved by satisfactory evi-
dence of its reality ; and the author is now about to sub-
mit to his readers some additional instances of the oc-
currence of the fact, vs^ith which his researches have sup-
plied him, subsequently to the appeai'ance of Isis Reve-
lata.
By way of preface to these cases, and to indicate their
scope and tendency, we may take the liberty of quoting
the following apposite observation made by the celebrated
Gel-man physician and philosopher, Dr Unzer, many
years anterior to Mesmer's discovery. *
" The most extraordinary circumstance in the case of
somnambulism is, that the secret power of the soul sup-
plies our perceptive faculties, at a time when the external
senses are oppressed by sleep. From the voluntary mo-
tions of such sleepers, it is manifest that they see without
eyes, hear without ears, and accurately perform all func-
tions, otherwise requiring sensibility, without the assist-
ance of the special organs of sense."
A similar observation, it is believed, was made by Hip-
pocrates some thousand years ago; and the circum-
stance has been noticed by many other authors since his
time. The physician who, in these days, is still un-
acquainted with this curious and well-authenticated fact,
must have egregiously neglected his physiological studies,
and exposes his professional ignorance. If he really knows
it, and yet, upon any pretence, affects to deny the possi-
* John Augustus Unzer, a celebrated German physician, and
medical wnter, was born at Halle in the year 1727, and devoted
himself to the practice of his profession at Altona, where he died
on the 2d of April 1799. Plis principal work was a periodical pub-
lication, entitled, Dei- The Physician—in which the author
ilisplayed great learning, philosophy, and wit. This work found
much favour with the public, and went through several editions It
constitutes a remarkable compound of instruction and amusement
He IS also the author of a Medical Manual in three volumes and
ot a treatise on the Physiology of Animal Nature, which was much
esteemed.
130 APPENDIX.
bility of its occurrence, he stands convicted of a gross
want of candour. At all events, it is clear that the phe-
nomenon was known from experience long before it be-
came more frequently and more completely developed,
and more generally accredited, in the course of the mag-
netic practice.
One of Gassendi's somnambulists used to rise and
dress himself in his sleep, go down to the cellar, and draw
wine from a cask. He appeared to see in the dark, as
well as in broad day-light. See Muratori, Delia
forza della Fantasia.
ViGNEUL DE Marville says of the somnambulist,
Signor Augustin Ferari—" I went up to him, and held
a candle under his eyes. He took no notice of it, al-
though his eyes were open and staring." Yet this som-
nambulist perfoiTTied a variety of operations requiring
sight. A watchmaker's apprentice —a somnambulist
mentioned by Martinet, although insensible to external
impressions, perfoinntied his work, in that state, with his
usual accuracy. An American farmer, noticed by Pro-
fessor Upham, rose in his sleep, went to his barn, and
threshed out, in the dark, Jive bushels of rye, separating
the grainfrom the straw with the greatest exactness.
The case of the young clergyman, reported by the
Archbishop of Bourdeaux, and inserted in the eighth vo-
lume of the French Encyclopedia, is so well known that
it were unnecessary to repeat it here, especially as it has
been related, at some length, in Isis Revelata, and is also
noticed by Wienholt in his Lectures. A case very si-
milar, however, occurred subsequently in Switzerland,
and was communicated to the Philosophical Society of
Lausanne, and carefully investigated by a committee of
that learned body, who made an articulate report upon
the subject. This somnambulist was a boy of the name
of Devaud, thirteen years and six months old. The
committee testify that this boy " dressed himself in a
room perfectly dark." " Having snatched up one of his
books, -when his eyes ivere perfectly shut, he said, without
opening it,
<
'Tis'a sorry dictionary,' as indeed it was."
APPENDIX. 151
" With his eyes fast locked, he touched several objects,
and distinguished perfectly well those he had from those
he had not seen before." The committee remarked that
" he is sometimes apprised of the presence of objects,
without being assisted by the sense of touch or of sight."
He wrote to the dictation of his master ; and although, a
thick piece of paper was placed before his eyes, he con-
tinued to form each character with the same distinctness as
before. After writing several lines, he perceived some
errors he had committed, and corrected them. " He
drew a castle in the corner of the paper, and erased a blot
between two letters, without touching either of them." M.
Levade, one of the committee, saw him " cypher and
calculate with great exactness." " In each of the above
operations, the sleep-walker had his eyes almost always
shut." The committee farther testify that they " fre-
quently heard him come down stairs when it was quite
dark. " Being shown a book he had never seen before, he
said he would examme it in day-light ; and retiring with
this intention into a very dark kitchen, opened the book,"
&c.
He took from a press several of his own books, ex-
amined them in total darkness, and named each correctly,
without making a single mistake. " He has even told
the title of a book, when there was a thick plank placed
between it and his eyes." M. Tardent, his master,
showed a specimen of his writing, which, he assured the
committee, the somnambulist had executed in the com-
pletest darkness.—(See Isis Revelata, vol. i. pp. 325,
&c.)
The somnambulist of Professor Feder of Gottingen
performed a variety of operations, and perceived even dis-
tant objects with his eyes closed ; and it was quite evi-
dent to the scientific gentlemen present that he saw with-
out their assistance.
—
{Isis Rev. vol. i. p. 330.)
The sonmambulist recorded in the Transactions of the
Medical Society of Breslau performed his usual business,
and even made long journeys on horseback, with as great
ease, security, and success, as when awake. " During
152 APPENDIX.
the continuance of the paroxysm, he was quite insen-
sible; though pricked or strucJc, he felt nothing. He
could not see when his eyes were forced open. He could
not smell even the most volatile spirit ; nor could he
hear the report ofa pistol, whenfired close beside him."
—Ibid. p. 333.
Dr Knoll's somnambulist performed, in total dark-
ness, a. variety of minute and delicate operations, requir-
ing light and the use of the eyes, with which, it would
appear, he was enabled to dispense.
—
(Ibid.)
The case reported by M. Sauvages de la Croix is
particularly deserving of attention; the state of the pa-
tient's sensibility having been tested by the most satis-
factory experiments.—(iitrf. 336.) The case reported
by Lord Monboddo is also very satisfactory and con-
clusive, both in regard to the fact now in question, as
well as to some of the other phenomena of somnambulism.
—(Ibid. pp. 338, &c.)
The reader is also referred to the other cases mention-
ed in Isis Revelata, vol. i. from page 342 to the end.
The case of Miss Rider, reported by Dr Belden, (pp.
366, &c.) is particularly interesting and remarkable.
A case of a very singular nervous affection, supposed
to have been occasioned by the bite of a tarantula, is
reported in the London Medical and Physical Journal
for September 1808, by Dr J. Comstock of South
Carolina in America. We consider it quite unnecessary
to ti'ouble the reader with the merely medical details of
this case, and shall confine our attention to the state of
the patient's sensibility.
This patient was a girl of fifteen years of age. Her
physician (Dr C.) discovered that'she distinguished ob-
jects by means of the points of her fingers. She listened
to music with great apparent pleasure ; but her ears were
as insensible to all other sounds as an inanimate body.
Her eyes were constantly shut ; but she distinguished all
objects and their colours by means of her fingers.
She never opened her eyes during the whole time Dr
Comstock was in the room, but kept them constantly
3
APPENDIX. i53
shut ;
nevertheless, to his great astonishment, she dis-
tingxiished exactly, by means of her fingers, the colours
of the different articles of clothing he had on, and this
perception was so delicate, that she told not only the va-
rious colours, but the very materials of which each piece
of stuif presented to her was made. Dr Comstock ob-
serves that he would not have ventured to relate circum-
stances so much beyond common belief, had he not ob-
tained the most complete evidence of their trath. All
these transactions took place in broad day-light, and in
the presence . of persons whose testimony is worthy of all
credit. When the patient recovered from a fit, this ma-
gical perception disappeared, her ordinary sensibility re-
turned, and she remembered nothing of what passed
during the paroxysm. Upon one occasion, she opened
her eyes, and the doctor could see nothing but the white ;
the whole of the cornea, or coloured part, was drawn up-
wards, out of sight, by the convulsive action of the mus-
cles. She danced with great violence during her fits,
which the doctor encouraged, as a natural remedy for
her complaint. While dancing, her eyes ivere constantly
shut. The persons around her remarked that her hear-
ing had become very acute and delicate, and that she
could hear the conversation of individuals who whispered
to each other in another room.
This is certainly a very curious and instructive case,
and, in some of its particulars, bears a considerable re-
semblance to that of Miss M'Evoy of Liverpool, the ob-
servation of which was so much bungled by the medical
sceptics. When will these gentlemen learn to look
steadily at the phenomena of nature with their open eyes,
without continually arming themselves with the distort-
ing spectacles of hypotheses ? The foregoing case is also
valuable as confirming the view entertained by many
authors, that the peculiar states we are now considering
may be induced by the absorption of certain poisons into
the animal system.
The whole of the interesting experiments conducted by
Dr Petetin of Lyons, noticed in Isis Revelata, (vol. ii.
154 APPENDIX.
Append. No. 2,) which threw so much new light on the
nature and characteristic phenomena of hysteria, somnam-
bulism, and catalepsy, were subsequently repeated and
confirmed by Dr Renard of Mentz, an eminent German
physician ; and an account of the results was recorded in
a paper inserted in Hufeland's Journal der practi-
schen Heilkunde for 1815.—(See also the Zoo-magnetic
Journal, No. 1.)
In all of the three cases reported by Dr Renard, the
ordinary sensibility of the patients was completely abolish-
ed, and the senses of seeing, hearing, and smelling, were
manifested without the use of the special organs. In the
case of the first patient, the Doctor observes, " her eyes
were open and fixed ;" " all her limbs were flexible ; but
she was still without consciousness, as previously, during
her convulsions. She heard nothing—saw nothing ;
nay,
she did not even manifest any feeling when pricked so as
to draw blood. A candle held before her widely-opened
eyes occasioned no conti'action of the pupils, nor any mo-
tion in the eyes themselves. We cried as loudly as pos-
sible into her ears ; she exhibited no symptoms of con-
sciousness," &c. And these statements are confirmed by
another medical gentleman, Dr Westhoven, who was
present during the experiments. Dr Westhoven " ex-
amined the patient with attention, and observed, at once,
that she lay there without consciousness, aiad that all sen-
sibility was abolished. The widely-opened, fixed, and
glazed eyes of the patient remained immovable on the
approach, nay, on the actual contact of the finger ; the
pupil exhibited no change on the approach or removal of
the candle. All the other senses were equally incapable
of receiving impressions."
In the case of the second patient, it is observed that
her eves were " only so far opened as to admit of our
seeing a part of the white. She heard nothing, felt nothing,
even when she was roughly handled." And this state of
the sensibiUty was repeatedly tested during the experi-
ments.
In the third case, the Doctor found the patient " im-
APPENDIX. 155
movable, with fixed and wide-open eyes, with a calm
pulse and respiration, and her body quite flexible, with-
out sensibility or consciousness, lying upon a couch. All
stimulants that were tried with a view to bring the patient
to herself, or to affect her senses and excite signs of life,
were without effect ; there was no vestige of feeling, hear-
ing, seeing, or smelling ; and had not her pulse been per-
ceptible, and her respiration visible, there was no appear-
ance of life."
It would occupy too much of our space, were we to
enter upon a minute detail of all the experiments made
upon these patients, and their curious and interesting re-
sults. We must refer our readers, therefore, to the
sources of infonnation we have pointed out above ; and
shall only observe, that, in the states described, all the
patients were found to exercise the functions of sensibility
in an abnormal manner, and with extraordinary acuteness,
without the use of the appropriate organs of sense.
The celebrated German physician, De Haen, reports
the case of a cataleptic girl of twelve years of age, which
he had himself witnessed. This girl, during her parox-
ysms, performed several feats which astonished the Doc-
tor and the other bystandei-s. It frequently happened
that both the family and the Doctor suspected some
fraud in these exhibitions, and tried various means for
detecting it, but without success. " Upon one occasion,"
says De Haen, " I pinched her tender skin so severely
as to leave a mark for many days ; at another time, / ap-
plied a candle almost to the very pupils of her eyes, to
see whether they contracted ; I pricked various parts of
her body with needles, so as to draw blood,—but all to
no purpose. In the meantime, during the whole period
of the paroxysm, as often as I changed the position of
her arm, her leg, her hand, her fingers, her head, they re-
mained exactly as I had placed them ; and that for a
longer period of time, than I, in health, could have kept
them in the same position."
—
Ratio Medendi, P. 4, c. 5,
§3.
Dr p. F. HopFENGAERTNER mentions the case of
156 APPENDIX.
one of his patients, a girl of sixteen years of age, who,
for several years, had laboured under convulsions, and
was afterwards attacked by an affection in which she was
deprived of sensibility, and exhibited many of the pheno-
mena of somnambulism. In regard to the state of her
eyes, the Doctor remarks, that " the pupil was dilated,
but sensible to the irritation of light ;" but, at the same
time, he observes, that, with her eyes closed, she sewed,
threaded her needle, &rc.
—
Einige Bemerkungen ueher
die menschlichen Entwickelungen, 8^c. Stutg. 1792.
Professor Meiners of Goettingen, a very learned man,
but a sceptic in regard to animal magnetism, in his book
upon that subject, (Lemgo, 1788,) relates, amongst a
number of curious cases, that of a girl between twelve
and thirteen years of age, who was attacked, first, with
tinea capitis, afterwards with epilepsy and lypothymia,
and subsequently with successive symptoms of tetanus,
emprosthotonos, opisthotonos, and St Vitus's dance. In
her paroxysms she displayed a remarkable degree of ex-
alted sensibility. " Her eyes were closed. As it
was evident," says Professor Meiners, " that she made
no use of her eyes, they were bandaged upon the approach
of the paroxysm, with the consent, or even at the request
of the girl herself. Nevertheless, she recognised, as pre-
viously, the persons present, told what objects certain in-
dividuals had last touched, and mentioned to others what
money they had counted out," &c. " She recognised,
with great ease, and named all colours presented to her,
as also letters and cyphers. She ivrote, and cut cards,
in her usual manner. Leaving her bed, she danced about
the room, placed herself in the most extraordinary attitudes,
and performed, to admiration, the most difficult motions,
without injuring herself, until she became exhausted."
The somnambulist observed by Professor Fischer—
a school-boy—sprang out of his bed at night, ran, with
amazing rapidity, through a large apartment, pursued by
sixty other boys, " romped, wrestled, boxed, timiblcd
about, and engaged in all sorts of noisy and boisterous
mirth, never running against any thing, never being at
APPENDIX. 157
fault in the most sudden and diiEcult turnings. I think,"
observes the professor, " I can perfectly well remember
that, when running, he always held his hands before him,
with his fingers stretched out. We sometimes drove him
into a narrow corner between the beds, thinking to catch
him ; but he always escaped from us, either by springing,
with astonishing agility, over the beds, or by leaping over
several beds at a time. When he escaped through the
door, he flew through a long gallery towards his own
apartment. There he rested, frequently taking up a book
and reading with a low or a loud voice, conducting if
my recollection be correct—his outstretched fingers over
the lines. His eyes were alternately open and closed ;
but even when open, they were incapable of vision, hein^
convulsively drawn upwards, showing only the whiter
The professor was informed that, during his nightly wan-
derings, he had been known to play at skittles, a game he
was very fond of when awake ; and that he had always
accurately counted the number of pins knocked down, by
stretching out his fingers in a direction towards them so
correctly, indeed, that it was impossible to deceive or im-
pose upon him. Der Somnambulismus ; von Prof. Fis-
cher. Basil, 1839.
In Manchart's Repertorium fUr empirische Psy-
chologie, V. 73, &c. there is reported the case of a girl
of fifteen years of age, who was attacked, first, with a sort
of convulsive delirium, which afterwards passed into ca-
taleptic ecstacy, and terminated in somnambulism. Lat-
terly, when the fit came upon her, instead of going
to bed, she sat down at a table, and asked for a book to
read. In her waking state she was a bad reader, but, in
her fits, she read fluently, and with a correct accent. That
she read without the assistance of light was proved by
removing the candle while she was reading, and placing
It under the table, when she continued to read on, with-
out being apparently conscious of any change. Besides,
her eyes, although open, were convulsively drawn up-
wards, and insensible to the strongest stimulus ofli^'ht
She did not perceive when, during her reading, a leaf was
158 APPENDIX.
turned over, but continued to read at the same place of
the page presented to her, until she became aware of the
defective meaning, when she would stop and exclaim,
" Ah ! where have I got to ?"—and when the proper
page was again turned to, she continued to read on from
the line at which she had been interrupted. Her clair-
voyance extended to objects at a considerable distance ;
and she recognised the approach ofpersons whoin it was
impossible for her to have seen, even had she possessed
the use of her eyes.
In the Bulletin de la Societe des Sciences Physiques
et Medicales d' Orleans, T. iii. p. 159, ample details are
given of the disease and cure of Madame Lefebvre, by
M. GuERiTAUT. M. Latour, the younger, perpetual
secretary of this society, read an abstract of the case at
a public meeting of that body on the 22d of August
1811, mentioning, at the same time, that the facts he
had to relate were known to all the inhabitants of the
town of Mer, and that his father had attended the patient
from the first symptoms to the ultimate cure.
The case of this lady appears to have been of an hys-
terical character, accompanied with very violent convulsive
attacks. She lost, at once, her voice, her sight, and her
hearing. Fits of catalepsy and attacks of paralysis suc-
ceeded. During her fits, the intellectual faculties of the
patient became prodigiously developed. She wrote let-
ters to her friends, which might be regarded as models
of style and grammatical correctness. Her manual dex-
terity was no less surprising. Amongst other things,
she executed a piece of work in straw, of which, when
awake, she could not comprehend the manufacture. AH
this she did with the assistance of her hands alone. !< or
several months she possessed the faculty of seeing objects
during the night as well as by day. Her own Christian
name was Adelaide ; but she could never be convmced ot
the identity of Adelaide and Peii<e-the latter being the
name she gave herself in her fits. At a subsequent period
the senses of smelling, feeling, and sight were trajf"red
to the epigastrium. When a flower was presented to hei.
APPENDIX. 159
she carried it to the region of the stomach, and then no-
ticed its smell, and mentioned its colour. At other times,
while her eyes were kept closed, she recognised the per-
sons who placed their hand on the same region. At a
still subsequent period she did more. While her eyes
were kept closed in the same manner, she named the va-
rious persons who surrounded her, and described the
places they respectively occupied in the apartment. She
herself referred all her visual perceptions to the epigas-
trium.
A narrative of the following case was drawn up by Dr
Barrier for the late Baron Cuvier, for the purpose
of beingr communicated to the National Institute of France.
The patient was Euphrosyne Bonneau, a girl, aged
twelve years and nine months. She had been subject to
catalepsy for about a year, and her fits generally came on
daily, and lasted for several hours. From the period of
his first visit, Dr Barrier recognised in her some very
extraordinary faculties, presenting the following remark-
able phenomena, which were seen and verified by a mul-
titude of witnesses.
1. Complete insensibility of the whole surface of the
body, with the exception of the epigastrium, where all
vital action appeared to be concentrated.
2. The faculty of discovering the thoughts of persons
placed en rapport with her.
3. The abolition of taste and smell in tne respective
organs of these senses, and their transference to the epi-
gastrium.
4. Vision transferred to the same region.
5. A prevision or presentiment of future events re-
lating to her own disease.
6. A correct appreciation of the efficacy of the pro-
posed remedies.
7. Sometimes an internal feeling of the sufi'erings of
other persons.
8. A prodigious developement of the memory.
9. A great disposition to manifest the prophetic faculty.
We shall, at present, confine our observations to the
160 APPENDIX.
phenomenon of vision without the use of the eyes. Dr
Barrier observes that this extraordinary faculty was
that which was most constantly manifested during the
whole "course of the treatment. So extraordinary did
this faculty appear, that the witnesses said her eyes were
organs almost useless. Reading fatigued her much ; yet
she repeatedly read, at intervals, both by day and by
night. Amongst a number of facts relative to this phe-
nomenon, we may mention the following. Dr Barrier,
accompanied by another able physician, Dr Versain,
entered the apartment of the patient towards eleven o'clock
in the forenoon. She was in bed, appai'ently in a mixed
state between catalepsy and somnambulism. Dr Versain
gave her a handful of small comfits of different colours.
She took them, carried them to the region of her sto-
mach, then threw them up into the air, one after the
other, calling out—" White, yellow, red, red, white,
yellow," &c. without ever being mistaken in regard to
their particular colour. Dr Versain wished to ascer-
tain the state of her eyes, but it was impossible for him
to open the eye-Uds in the slightest degree, they were so
firmly closed. " I might destroy the eyes," said he, " but
could never open them." Upon Madame Versain enter-
ing the room, while the patient continued in this state,
the latter correctly described that lady's dress, even to
the most minute details.
Other instances of the clairvoyance of this patient are
given by the reporter, which, for the sake of brevity, we
shall omit, i-eferring the reader to the source from whence
we have taken the foregoing particulars.
—
(Foissac :
Rapports et Discussions de I'Academie Boyale de Me-
decine sur le Blagnetisme Animal, pp. 366, &c.)
In the appendix to Isis Revelata, No. 2, the author
took the liberty of recommending to the attention of the
inquisitive a very singular publication by the Baron
VON Strom BECK, President of the Court of Appeal at
Celle,* containing the history of the somnambulism of a
* GescJdchte eines allcin durch die Nut wr hcrvorochrachtcn ani-
inaUschcn Mwjmtimm, Ac, von dem Baron Friediuch Karl von
APPENDIX. 161
young lady residing in his own house. The narrative,
drawn up by the Baron himself, contains a very curious
and most interesting account of the phenomena of clair-
voyance manifested by this patient—amongst others, that
of vision without the use of the eyes ; and the facts he
relates are attested by three eminent physicians, besides
several other most respectable witnesses, all of whom,
including the Baron himself, were either entirely ignorant
of animal magnetism, or sceptical upon that subject.
Besides being very interesting to the general reader, we
would consider this publication as of no small value to
the philosophical and practical physician, who might pro-
bably learn from it some things relative to the somnam-
bulistic affections of which he was not previously aware.
The book consists entirely of facts, and is divested of all
theory. But perhaps our peripatetic doctors might in-
clude the honourable and learned Baron, along with his
confederate physicians, in their list of foreign quacks,
impostors, and liars ; and the fiery editor of the Lancet
might designate the whole affair, in his classical and
courteous phraseology, as a hallucinating humbug.*
Hitherto, the author has confined his demonstration of
the reality of the fact in question to its occasional mani-
festation in the natural or idio-somnambulism, of which
many additional instances might be adduced if necessary.
Since the curious experiments of Dr Petetin, however,
and, especially, since the more general diffusion of the
practice of animal magnetism, the instances of the deve-
lopement of this extraordinary perceptive faculty, occur-
rmg m the artificial somnambulism, have become exceed-
mgly numerous, and the evidence in favour of the fact
has thereby acquired an irresistible cogency. To some
of these instances we would now direct the attention of
our readers.
bxROMBECK. The book was long ago translated into French, but
t,KwTv ' °f P^'^^'^' this country, t^ the
study of this particular sub ect, has probably prevented any one
from undertaking an EngUsh version of it.
^
* See The Lancet, passim.
162 APPENDIX.
Objections, it is true, have been taken to the admissi-
bility of this mass of evidence, upon the ground that
those individuals who have been engaged in the investi-
gation of this most interesting subject have permitted
themselves to be seduced by their partiality and enthu-
siasm to misrepi-esent and distort the phenomena actually
elicited, and have proved themselves either incompetent
to the task of observing facts, or dishonest in the reports
they have made of them. Now, we have no hesitation
in asserting that objections of this unfounded and calum-
nious nature could occur only to individuals themselves
grossly ignorant, or thoroughly dishonest. The reporters
of the facts in question are, for the most part, men whose
intellectual attainments, in general, are known to have
been of a superior order, and whose moral character is
elevated far above suspicion—men, in short, far more
honourable and trustworthy than their wretched, chiefly
anonymous, calumniators. They will be fomid to be,
principally, eminent physicians—such as Hufeland,
physician to the King of Prussia; Stieglitz, physician
to the King of Hanover ;
Bkandis, physician to the
King of Denmark ;
Klein, physician to the King of
Wirtemberg ; Wienholt ;
Olbers, the astronomer
;
Gmelin ; Heinecken ; Bockmann ; Baehrens ;
Ennemoser ;
Sprengel, author of an History of Me-
dicine, and other learned works ; Haindorf ; Nolte ;
Spindler; Nasse; Nees Von Esenbeck ; Passa-
vant; Ziermann ;
Heinroth; Leupoldt, &c.—
Physiologists—such as Reil ;
Treviranus; Auten-
rieth ; Humboldt ; Burdach ; Eschenmayer ;
KiESER, &c.—Naturalists—such as La Place, Cu-
vier, Oken, &c. —Philosophers— such as Fichte,
ScHELLiNG, Steffens, Baader, Hegel, &c.—Theo-
logians—such as Schleiermacher, Mayer, &c. To
these might be added a vast number of men of general
science, and celebrated literary characters. The French
mao-netists—PuYSEGUR, Deleuze, Bertrand, Geor-
ge?, CUVIER, DeSPINE, RoSTAN, HuSSON, FlLASSIEK,
FoissAC, Gauthier, Teste, &c.—constitute a perfect
APPENDIX. 163
host. It may be observed, too, that all of the individuals
above noticed, so far as we have been able to ascertain,
were originally sceptics in regard to animal magnetism ;
some of them were very violent sceptics, and wrote
against the practice ; but these last, after mature inves-
tigation, were subsequently convinced of their error, and,
ultimately, all of them became satisfied of the truth of
the science, and the reality of the phenomena ; and were
not ashamed to publish a retractation of their scepticism.
There is probably not a single eminent physician in Eu-
rope, who, having thoroughly investigated, will now pre-
sume to deny the facts. Ignorance and prejudice, in
this matter, are the only obstacles to universal conviction.
But it has been alleged that the evidence of these en-
lightened individuals is liable to discredit, because, for-
sooth, they were engaged in investigating the phenomena
of animal magnetism. Assuredly, this is a strange, and
we must take the liberty of saying, a most preposterous
objection. Pray, how are the facts of Nature to be dis-
covered and appreciated, unless by those who take an in-
terest in investigating them ? Are the facts of chemistry
to be discredited, because they have been discovered by
chemists ? And is the same wZ^ra-sceptical test to be
applied to electricity, galvanism, astronomy, and general
physics ? Are no facts to be relied upon as genuine,
but such as may happen to be adduced by ignorant and
unskilful persons, who have neither the requisite talent,
nor the disposition for investigation, and who are, more-
over, careless and indifferent as to the results ?
Again : It is said by some of the opponents that the
animal magnetists are all credulous men and mystics.
For the tmth or falsehood of this objection we appeal to
the list of names which have been given above. Let our
antagonists produce an equivalent list of known, intelH-
gent, and impartial contradictors, if they can. Besides,
those who make this assertion appear to us to fall into
the extreme of the very error which they seem so desi-
rous to fasten on their neighbours. They bring this
accusation against many individuals of whose real cha-
164 APPENDIX.
racter they are entirely ignorant, and whose labours they
are utterly incompetent to appreciate. Their credulity,
moreover, far supasses that which they impute to the
reporters of the magnetic facts ; for they actually believe,
or, at least, profess to believe, that hundreds of indivi-
duals of high scientific attainments and unimpeachable
moral character, in an enlightened age, in all parts of the
civilized world, had been themselves deceived, or had at-
tempted to deceive others, in regard to phenomena re-
peatedly falling under their own observation in many
hundreds of instances. Such extreme credulity can only
co-exist with the most imbecile mind, the most deplorable
ignorance, or the most miserable self-conceit. The term
credulity, we maintain, cannot be reasonably applied to
the belief of a fact which has been actually and unambi-
guously witnessed, and demonstrated by competent evi-
dence ; and the imputation of mysticism, in such circum-
stances, is absolutely ludicrous. These objections, too,
are brought forward by persons, chiefly anonymous, who
have never proved their own competency, and who have
never witnessed, far less investigated the facts upon
which they arbitrarily presume to pronounce so decided
an opinion. They obstinately shut their own eyes, call
upon their neighbours to do the same, and then most
magisterially declare that magnetic vision is all hutnhiig.
We may add, that those who are themselves dishonest
are generally the most disposed to suspect dishonesty in
others.
The author, then, feels no hesitation in appealing to
the experience of the most eminent magnetists, in con-
firmation of the fact which, as we have seen, has been
manifested in many instances of the natural somnambu-
lism. In the Appendix to Isis Revelata, No. II., some
notice has been taken of the experimental researches of
Tardy de Montravel, Gmelin, Professor Kieser,
and other early magnetists, and also of the curious facts
elicited during the interesting inquiries of the Committee
of the French Royal Academy of Medicme ni 1831, as
detailed in the admirable report of Dr Husson. Ihe
APPENDIX. 165
evidence there adduced was sufficient, it is thought, to
satisfy every candid and ingenuous mind ; but in order
to deprive the most obdurate sceptics of every pretence
for denying the reaUty of the fact in question, we shall
proceed to the brief enumeration of other cases, in which
the controverted phenomenon was distinctly and unequi-
vocally manifested. We may mention, once for all, that
when we speak of somnambulists in the sequel, we mean
to designate individuals so affected, that their eyes were
completely insensible to the stimulus of light, and who
were, consequently, incapable of exercising the faculty of
vision in the ordinary manner, as shall be more fully ex-
plained hereafter.
Dr Tritschler's somnambulist—a boy of thirteen
years of age—saw and recognised the numbers and pic-
tures on cards, when introduced under the bed-cover,
and placed upon his stomach, in complete darkness, and
covered, moreover, by the hand of the magnetiser. The
same recognition took place in the case of written notes.
(See Archivfiir den thierischen Magnetismus ; I. B. 3,
St. pp. 51, &c.)
Madame Millet, magnetised by Van Ghert, saw
her physician's hand and finger by means of the epigas-
trium. {Ibid. III. 3, 14.) At a later period, she recog-
nised, in a similar manner, some portraits. {Ibid. p. 18.)
At last she became so clairvoyante as to be able to read
by means of the epigastrium, at the distance of a foot
and a half.
Miss St., under the care of Dr Lehman n, accurately
distinguished the colours of cards by means of the epi-
gastrium. {Ibid. V. 3, 14.)—Kieser's epileptic boy
read fluently by means of the pit of the stomach. {Ibid. III.
2, 131.)—Maria Riibel, in Langenberg, read sealed let-
ters by means of the epigastrium ; nay, even written cha-
racters enveloped in a covering of double linen. {Ibid. IV.
3, 82, &c.)—De Valenti's patient described the orna-
mental devices on his watch. {Ibid. VI. 2, 103.)— She
also recognised the picture of a soldier placed upon her
stomach. (P. 124.)
166 APPENDIX.
In many other patients, the functions of other organs
were also manifested at the epigastrium. Dr Joseph
Frank's patient, Louisa Baerkmann, recognised and felt
the taste of sugared water at the epigastric region, and
heard at the same place.—A servant girl, magnetised
by De Valenti, also heard at the epigastrium. (^Ar-
chiv, VII. 1, 112.)—Dr Klein's patient said: "This is
very comical : I hear by means of my stomach ;"
and
she laughed aloud at the singularity of the phenomenon.
Her ears having been stopt, she said :
" That is of no
use ; I hear with this,"—pointing to her stomach. (^Ibid.
v. i. pp. 13, &c.)
In the case of other somnambulists, the common sense
seemed to be transferred to the points of the fingers, as
in the case of Miss M'Evoy of Liverpool. Professor
Kieser's patient, Anthony Arst, read with his forefinger,
and distinguished cards in the same manner. Nay, when
he held his elbow out at the window, he saw every thing
on the street, to the distance of 150 paces. (Ibid. III. 2,
pp. 90, &c.)
—
Van Ghert's somnambulist saw by
means of the fingers ; (Ibid. II. 2, 24 ;) as also Madame
Millet and Maria Riibel formerly noticed, and Dr Durr's
patient. (Ibid. X. 3, pp. 7, &c.)—An idio-somnambuhc
boy at Halmstadt in Holland read fluently by means of
his breast and his fingers.—Dr Meter's patient, at
Dulken in Rhenish Prussia, heard with the points of his
fingers. (Ibid. XII. 3, 68.)—One of Dr Kerner's som-
nambulists heard sometimes with her fingers, sometimes
with every part of the body. Articles of food she tast-
ed with her fingers, as with her mouth. (Geschichte
zweiyer Somnambulen.) The second somnambulist,
mentioned in the work referred to, saw only when she
placed her finger on the pit of the stomach, or on the
cromi of the head. She sometimes heard, smelt, and
saw with the point of the middle finger.
Other cases are recorded in which the patients saw and
heard with the nose, the chin, the elbows, the shoulders,
the knees, the toes, and all the prominent prts of the
body. Augusta MuUer of Carlsruhe saw with her fore-
APPENDIX. 167
head, her eyelids, and her eye-brows. (Archiv ; III. 3,
116.) Dr Werner mentions, as a singular peculiarity,
that his somnambulist possessed the power of changing
her focus of vision at pleasure. (See Die Schutzgeis-
ter, &c. von Heinrich Werner, p. 322.) In some cases,
it would appear, the whole body becomes as it were clair-
voyant. This was the case with Dr Heinecken's pa-
tient at Bremen, who saw without the assistance of the
eyes, or of any other special organ ; and she expressly de-
clared that such somnambulists were much more clair-
voyant than those whose perceptive faculties were loca-
lised. (^Archiv ; II. 3, 25.) Hence the somnambulists
are frequently unable to give any adequate description of
these metastases of the perceptive faculties, and the spe-
cies of perception, in these cases, might, perhaps, be more
properly denominated feeling, than actual sight, hearing,
&c.* It is worthy of remark, too, that the perceptions
* Sir J. D. Brandls, physician to the King of Denmark, declares
that he never was a professed magnetiser, but had cahnly observed
the phenomena, and taken the liberty of doubting whatever appeared
to him to be improbable, although he had never attempted to guide
the opinion of others. The remarks of such a competent, attentive,
and sceptical, yet candid observer, therefore, upon a subject of this
nature, cannot fail to be valuable. We subjoin the following ex-
tracts from his book
—
Ueber imjchische Eeilmittel und Magnetismus
—published at Copenhagen, in the year 1818.
" The magnetised^ person declares that he sees the magnetiser.
This was the case with all my clainoyaiits. They assured me that
they saw me distinctly and could perceive all my motions. This
could not be proper vision, for their eyes were shut. One of them
went farther, and assured me that, with considerable exertion, she
could read a book which I held in my hand. Having no desire to
encourage such miraculous feats, and as sufficient experiments had
been ahready made in relation to this matter, I did not attempt to
verify the fact ;
but I can assm-e my readers that, in her ordinary
waking state, this patient had no idea that magnetised persons could
read in this manner. However we may multiply our experiments
in regard to this species of vision, we still appear to stand upon the
confines between truth and fable ; and how shall we attempt to se-
parate the one from the other, while we are still incapable of dis-
tinctly explaining the phenomena of ordinary vision in the waking
state. Two of my patients were persons in whom scepticism itself
could suspect no deceit ;—simple girls, who had long been afflicted
168 APPENDIX.
of these somnambulists, in general, are much more vivid,
acute, and delicate, than in the waking state.
The foregoing observations, it is presumed, must be
sufficient to convince every candid and unprejudiced mind
of the existence, in certain states of the organism, of the
phenomenon of sensible perception, without the use of
the appropriate organs. We may, therefore, venture to
omit a great variety of other instances, which might be
gathered, with some additional trouble, fi-om the scatter-
ed works of the practical magnetisers. We have taken
our examples principally from German authorities ; but
the same fact is confirmed by the recorded experience of
a vast number of other magnetists, in France and other
countries, which it is thought unnecessary, and might be
tedious to exhibit in detail.*
The following comparatively recent case, however, is
much too important to be passed over without special
notice. It is recorded by Dr Teste, in his Manuel Pra-
tique de Magnetisme Animal, Paris, 1840. The case
with dangerons maladies, and had no other desire but to hare their
health restored ;
who, therefore, could not possibly be conceived ca-
pable of asserting anything of which they were not conscious. Both
of them, also, were utterly unacquainted mth the hitherto observed
wonders of magnetism."
" The magnetised person maintains that he sees his own brain,
his own stomach, his lungs, his liver, &c. It must be understood
that the expression of seeing is employed by these persons to denote
perception in general, because this word comes readiest to them,
and perhaps appears the most appropriate to describe the particu-
lar impression. Two of my clairvoyantes expressly remarked that
they did not see with their eyes, but in a manner which they them-
selves could not comprehend or explain." Similar observations
have been recorded by other magnetic writers.
* Instances of the occurrence of some of the foregoing phenome-
na will be found in the valuable work of our ingenioiis coimtrpnan,
the Rev. Mr Townshend. An orange Mas placed in the hand of
one of his patients. She told what it was, but observed,—" You
may think I know this by feeling : It is not so. In the mesmeric
state I have only one method of knowing things ;
and whether I see
them, smell them, or feel them, it is all the same." Similar ex-
amples—demonstrating the existence of a common sense, m the
magnetic sleep—might be multiplied to almost any amount. Sec
also Isis Bevelata, Vol. i. p. 305, note.
APPENDIX. 169
occiu-red in the salon of M. Frapart, in presence of a
company of sixty individuals, consisting principally of
unprofessional persons, and of some well-known but in-
credulous physicians. The patient, Calliste, was a young
man about twenty years of age—the operator was Dr
RiCARD. When first magnetised, about five years previ-
ously, the patient was set asleep and became lucid {clair-
voyantJ from the first sitting ;
and, according to Dr Ri-
CARD, his lucidity has not suflFered a single day's inter-
ruption since that time. Upon this occasion, he was set
asleep by Dr Ricard in a few minutes, and his eyes
were covered with a bandage adjusted by Dr Teste, and
one of the sceptics ; a bandage, says Dr Teste, of such
a kind as precluded all possibility of deception. The pa-
tient commenced playing several games at cards with all
those of the company who chose to engage with him.
The cards were new, and, for greater security, had been
purchased and brought there by some of the company.
Notwithstanding all these precautions, Calliste constantly
beat his adversaiy. He played with incredible rapidity,
and with uniform success. He appeared to know per-
fectly well what cards were in his adversary's hand.
This case may be compared vsdth that of M. Petit, in
the Report of the French Academicians, in 1831 ; and
with that of Miss Rider, reported by Dr Belden, and
noticed in Isis Revelata.*'
* The account given by the sceptical Dr Bertrand of his con-
version to a thorougli belief in the reality of the fact of vision with-
out the use of the eyes, is exceedingly interesting and very decisive.
A somnambulist, having her eyes manifestly shut, told him, never-
theless, with great precision, where a ring was to be found, which he
had taken from her finger, and given to another lady. What made
the experiment still more conclusive was that the husband of this
lady, who was present, had taken the ring from his wife, and, un-
perceived by the Doctor, had put it into one of his own pockets.
There the somnambulist said she saw it, and persisted in this asser-
tion, notwithstanding the assiu-ance which the Doctor, according to
his o\vn conviction, gave her of the contrary. Previously to this
experiment, Dr Bertrand was an utter sceptic in regard to the
possibility of the phenomenon in question. But soon afterwards, he
fell in with Dr Petetin's work, (Mectricite Animale, Lyons, 1808,)
170 APPENDIX.
A great deal of the scepticism which has been mani-
fested m regard to the reality of this phenomenon of the
exercise of sensitive perception without the use of the ap-
propriate organs, appears to have arisen from a want of
due attention to the actual state of these organs dm-ing
the manifestation of this anomalous species of perception";
and, in the case of the magnetic vision, a vast deal of un-
necessary trouble has been taken, with a view to prevent
deception, by bandaging the eyes of the patient previous
to commencing the experiments. The magnetists, how-
ever, assert—upon unquestionable experience—that, in
the states in question, the organs of special sense are to-
tally deprived of their sensibility for the time ;
and,
therefore, the best means of preventing deception would
be to commence by endeavouring to ascertain this fact,
in each particular case. Now, in regard to the organ
of vision, this fact has been ascertained and demonstrated,
in consequence of the most careful investigation by emi-
nent physiologists both before and since the discovery of
Mesmer.
We have already quoted the decided ,
opinion of Dr
Unzer upon this point. No less decided is the opinion
of the celebrated Baron Haller. When speaking of
the natural somnambulists, he says, that they all rise from
their beds with closed eyes, and in a state of profound
sleep. " They sleep profoundly," he continues, " tvith
their eyes either closed, or incajiable of vision." {Phy-
siol. Tom. V. p. 626.) " All the somnambulists whom
I have seen," says Van Swibten, {Comment, in Boer-
haav. Aphorism. III. 1086,) " had their eyes wide open,
and a very much enlarged aperture of the pupil, such as
and was greatly astonished at the decisive facts therein related,
which, he affirms, can leave no doubt on the mind of any rational
being ;
and, accordingly, he strongly recommends this work to the
attention of his readers ; and then proceeds to give various other
proofs and illustrations of the phenomenon.
We have shown that Petetin's experiments were successfully re-
peated by Dr Renard of Mentz, and the results reported in Dr
Hupeland\s Medical Journal, with the entire approbation of tlie
celebrated editor.
APPENDIX. 171
is usually found in persons affected with amaurosis. This
aperture did not contract on the approach of light ; nor
did the eyelids wink, but remained motionless. When
the individuals were forcibly awakened, however, the
eyes immediately closed, and they felt the inconvenience
of the light when brought near them." The same facts
are attested by that eminent physician, M. de Haen, by
M. Ellert, by Sauvages de la Croix, &c. The
enlarged experience of the Doctors Wieni-iolt, Enne-
MosEB, Gmelin, Heinecken, Kluge, Eschenmayer,
KiESER—and, indeed, of all the modern scientific phy-
siologists and practical magnetists—conducted them to
a coincident conclusion. We have frequently had occa-
sion to notice the cmious case, completely confirming this
fact of the insensible state of the eyes of somnambulists,
which was long ago reported to the French and Swedish
Academies byM.SAUVAGES dela Croix; and the works
of the magnetic authors are full of instances of the same
phenomenon, which may be said to be incontrovertibly
estabhshed by the concurrent testimony of all those emi-
nent men who have investigated the subject.*
Let us now turn our attention to the actual condition
of the problem to be solved. Somnambulists either see
or they do not see. Upon the latter hypothesis, how
can they be conceived capable of performing actions, such
as it is proved they do perform, which could not possibly
be accomplished without the exercise of visual perception
in one way or another ? It must necessarily be admit-
ted then, that these somnambulists do see, either with
their eyes, or by means of some other mode of acquiring
* If we might be permitted to quote the authority of Shakspeare
in matters of physiological fact, we should refer to the commence-
ment of the fifth act of Macbeth for a correct picture of a somnam-
bulist.
" I have seen her rise from her bed, throw her night-gown upon
her, unlock her closet, take forth paper, fold it, write upon it, read
it, afterwards seal it, and again retvu-n to bed ;
yet all this while in
a most fast sleep."
" You see lier eyes a/re open.
Aye, hut their sense is shut.'"
172 APPENDIX.
visual perceptions ;
and, in order to get rid of the obnox-
ious and apparently inexplicable phenomenon, the reality
of which we have undertaken to demonstrate, the scep-
tics allege, and must allege, that they actually see by
means of their eyes. But let us examine, by the light of
experience, the real state and condition of the usual or-
gans of vision in those individuals who are placed in a
state of profound somnambulism, either natural or arti-
ficial. The eyes of all such somnambulists are uni-
foraily found to be either completely and spasmodically
closed, or open, fixed, and staring. This is the opinion
of all those eminent physicians and physiologists who
have thoroughly examined the matter. In some few cases,
one or other, or both of the eyes have been found parti-
ally open ; but this is an exception to the general rule
;
and, even when it does occur, we see nothing but the
white of the eye ; the coloured part, and especially the
pupil, is completely concealed under the upper eyelid.
When the eyes of the somnambulist are closed, as Wien-
HOLT remarks in his lectures, if we attempt to draw
the eyelids asunder, we meet with considerable resis-
tance. Such an attempt, besides, has been known to pro-
duce a violent attack of convulsions. It is a common
observation that the eyelids, in somnambulism, appear as
if glued together. The antagonist muscles of those which
usually keep the eyes open, act strongly in opposition to
our efforts, and the latter are at rest. The eye can be
opened, with difficulty, only to the extent of one-half, and
then the eye-ball is observed to be turned upwards to-
wards the inner angle, and we perceive only the margin
of the iris peeping from under the eyelid, and remaining
immovable in the same situation. The approach of light
to the eye, in either case, does not produce the slightest
change ;
—there is no tremulous motion, no winking of
the eyelids—no expression of feeling—when the light is
brought near to the open or half-open eye. These facts,
as we have seen, have been ascertained by numerous ex-
periments and observations. Indeed, certain medical
men, who have enjoyed the best opportunities for obser-
APPENDIX. 173
vation, have remarked that the eyes of such somnambu-
lists as we have described, appear to be much in the
same state as those of individuals who are affected with
amaurosis, or are under the influence of certain active
narcotic poisons.
From the foregoing facts and observations, we humbly
conceive it to be now completely demonstrated, 1*^, That
somnambulists do exercise the faculty of vision ;
and,
2dly, That they do not exercise this faculty by means of
the apparatus of the usual organ of sight. And, as all
the other special organs of the senses can be proved to
be in the same state of abeyance, there is no room for the
hypothesis that the want of one sense is supplied by the
vicarious activity of another. It is quite preposterous to
pretend to object that the individuals who report their
observation of these facts were credulous, dishonest, or
incompetent. Among the observers there will be found
a great majority of medical men, some of them of the
very highest eminence in their profession, and all of them
of competent talents and acquirements, of imimpeachable
veracity and honourable character. They are elevated
far above the suspicion of wilful falsehood, and their
scientific attainments and coincident testimony render it
next to impossible that they could have been themselves
deceived. And where, it may be asked, is the imagin-
able motive for falsehood, imposture, or deception, in this
instance ? There was nothing to gain, and every thing
to lose, by such conduct. In short, the witnesses who re-
port the phenomena are both very numerous, fully com-
petent, and perfectly respectable. If falsehood and de-
ception are to be predicated in this instance, we must
absolutely cease to place any reliance, not only upon me-
dical evidence, but upon all evidence whatever, however
otherwise cogent and irrefragable it may be. Do not let
it be imagined that we wish to impose upon the sceptics
the task of proving a negative, or that we are disposed to
urge upon them a blind belief of these facts. We only call
upon them to examine the evidence dispassionately, and,
when opportunity occurs, to investigate for themselves'.
174 APPENDIX.
An ignorant denial, proceeding from a preconceived no-
tion of impossibility, is irrational and absurd. Nor do
we pretend to deny, that, in cases of this description, de-
ception and imposture might be, in certain circumstances,
and to a certain extent, possible ;
but, in the instances we
have referred to, deception and imposture cannot reason-
ably be presumed. In a number of these instances,
there is no ground whatever for any such presumption ;
nay, it is utterly precluded by the known character of
the observers, and by the circumstances in which the ob-
servations were made.*
* A literary gentleman, Mr Charles Mackay, has lately pub-
lished a volume on Popula/r Delusions, including in that category
the phenomena of animal magnetism. This gentleman appears to
entertain rather peculiar notions upon the subjects of iwpularity
and delusion. We know from experience that animal magnetism
never was popular. Let La Place, Cuvier, Jussieu, Georget,
Treviranus, Reil, Hupeland, Humboldt, Hussox, Rostan, &c.
—let these men declare whether it be, in their opinion, a delusion.
Ne sutor ultra crepidam.—But, perhaps, Mr Mackay conceives the
Copemican theory to be a popidar delusion. We are aware that
such an opinion very generally prevails among that class commonly
denominated the vulgar. Plow marvellously did that otherwise emi-
nent physician, Georget, lie under the incubus of popular delusion.
" During forty years," said he, upwards of twenty years ago—" dur-
ing forty years, magnetism has been studied, practised, propagated
in France, and in a great part of Europe, by a multitude of enlight-
ened and disinterested men, who proclaim its truth in defiance of
all the ridicule with which it is vainly attempted to overwhelm
them. It is a very astonishing thing that animal magnetism is not
even hioion by name among the ignorant classes. It is among the
enlightened ranks that it finds support. It is men who have receiv-
ed some education who have taken its cause in hand. It is partly
learned men, naturalists, physicians, who have composed the nume-
rous volumes in which the facts are accumulated which may now
be adduced in its favour." The same has been pretty much the
case since the days of Georget ; and yet we are called upon to be-
Ueve that all of these learned and eminent persons have been la-
bouring under a popidar delusion, from the contagion of which the
more intelligent Mr Charles Mackay has fortunately escaped.
But we shall leave Mr Mackay to settle his differences witli La
Place, Cuvier, Georget, Slc, and take the liberty of expressmg
our satisfaction at the altered tone and temper of the popular lite-^
rature of the day, in regard to the truth and value of the facts ot
animal magnetism. The disciples of Mesmer, in this country, are
APPENDIX. 175
It is a great, although a very common mistake to ima-
gine that the phenomenon we are now investigating is a
discovery or invention of the animal magnetists. In re-
ality, it was observed many centuries before animal mag-
netism was known by name, or cultivated as a science ;
and numerous instances of its occurrence, as well as al-
lusions to it more or less direct, may be found in the
writings of authors of almost every age and country.*
Those who regard it as a magnetic marvel only betray
their ignorance. It has frequently appeared, as has been
already shown, and still occasionally appears, as we our-
selves know, in cases of the natural or idiopathic somnam-
bulism; and it was only detected by the magnetists,
when, after the discovery of Mesmer, they found them-
selves capable of producing, artificially, the peculiar state
of the human organism in which it is occasionally mani-
fested.
But there are even some individuals in this country,
we find, who, in the course of their magnetic or analo-
gous practice, have attempted, in vain, to excite the ma-
nifestation of this faculty in some of their patients, or
have discovered what appeared to be deception in the at-
tempts to realise it by themselves or others ; and are
thence mduced to express their scepticism in regard to
Its reality m any instance. We are disposed to think,
however, that the disappointment of the endeavours of
these mdjviduals—however honest and apparently candid,
—and their consequent scepticism, are very much the
beginning to reap the reward of their persevering exertions. Even
the most respectable periodicals do not now spm-n the subjct from
humbug. FKASERhasLiled upon us th^
DMrn miivernty encourages us ; the Polytechnic assists^us ; the mI
''''
Dp Rvnifn
""^'"^ °^ °^ somnambulism and its phenomena
176 APPENDIX.
result of their ignorance and impatience : and we have
frequently had occasion to regret that many of our British
magnetisers are too prone to rush headlong into experi-
ments, without an adequate knowledge of the conditions
of successful investigation, without making themselves
thoroughly acquainted with the valuable observations of
their numerous and enlightened predecessors in the ex-
ercise of the magnetic art. We trust, therefore, that they
will have the goodness to excuse us, if we take the liberty
of submitting to their attentive consideration a few re-
marks upon these matters, the result of the profound
study of this particular subject, by various eminent mag-
netists and distinguished writers, during the last sixty or
seventy years.
1 . There are various degrees, or gradations, of the pe-
culiar states produced by the magnetic processes. The
first effect of these processes, by which the influence of
the active principle becomes apparent to ordinary obser-
vers, is a state of somnolency, or actual sleep. The state
of somnambulism, or rather of magnetic sleep-ivaking,—
(for i\\etGvm.somnamhulism is not very appropriate,)—^is
much more rare. The higher states—including the mani-
festation of the phenomena oi clairvoyance, or lucid vision
—occur in comparatively few cases. It wall be observed,
however, that the production of any of these states is not
absolutely or essentially necessary, in every instance, to
the principal object of the magnetic treatment—to the
efficacy of animal magnetism as a remedial process. Many
cases have been successfully treated without the produc-
tion of sleep ;
many more, without the intervention of
somnambulism. We have knowTi instances in which se-
vere neuralgic aifections have been speedily and effectu-
ally relieved wdthout the manifestation of any remarkable
phenomena whatever.
2. The power of operating magnetically varies in its
intensity in different individuals ; and there is also a great
difference in the susceptibility of patients for the magne-
tic influence. These differences probably depend upon
certain peculiarities of idiosyncrasy, which have not yet
APPENDIX. 177
been precisely ascertained. The fact has frequently pre-
sented a stumbling-block to the young magnetist, as it has
also furnished a theme for sceptical argument to the in-
credulous. It is pretty generally held, however, by the
best writers on the subject, that, in the case of the ope-
rator, the moral is as influential as the physique. The
will of the xnagnetiser has been proved to possess a won-
derful eflfect in determining the phenomena. In the case
of the patient, the influential principle is more doubtful.
Weak and diseased persons have been supposed to be the
more easily afiected by the treatment ; but robust patients
have been occasionally as easily and as efi'ectually mag-
netised as the weakest children, or the most delicate in-
valids. *
3. It can never be too frequently or too earnestly re-
peated, that the principal, nay, the sole object of the mag-
netic treatment is to cure the sick. To attempt to mag-
netise healthy persons is a gross abuse, which may be at-
tended with the most dangerous consequences. To ope-
rate solely with the view of producing the higher pheno-
mena of somnambulism, or the sleep-ivaking state, is a
monstrous abuse, and will most frequently prove abortive
—exhibiting only folly and delusion. It is probably cases
* Ever since the discovery of Mesmer a variety of opinions have
been held m regard to the operative principle in the zoo-magnetic
processes, or, as Mr Townshend calls it, the mesmeric medium. At
one time, the imagination of the patient was declared by the scep-
tics to bathe principally operative cause of the phenomena ; but this
theory has been, long since, exploded, as irreconcileable wiih the facts
Mesmer himself, and his immediate disciples, adopted the hypo-
thesis of an universal fluid, pervading all nature, capable, in certain
circumstances, of producing the particular phenomena. Puyseg ur
Barbarjn, and many subsequent magnetists, on the other hand at'
tnbuted these phenomena almost entirely to psychical or spiritual
inHuences. The viesmerists of this country seem disposed to explain
the facts upon an entirely materialistic principle. These opposite
hypotheses have hitherto divided the opinions of the gi-eater num-
ber of magnetists ;
and, in consequence of the mysterious and in-
explicable action and reaction of the material and the spiritual ele-
^Inl^ii ^V^Viu ""i"'?'''"''"' "P*"^ ^^'^'^ it is scarcely to be
expected that the efficient causes of the phenomena in question vvill
soon receive a satisfactory explanation.
4"fsuon win
M
178 APPKNDIX,
of this description which have engendered so much scep-
ticism and disgust in the minds of many, who have not
sufficient knowledge and experience to enable them to dis-
tinguish imposture from reality in the instances exhibited
to them.
In the earlier stages of somnambulism, patients are
very apt to be misled by the eager and incautious zeal
and importunity of their magnetisers ; and the whole
treatment then becomes utterly worthless in a scientific
point of view, as well as extremely injurious to the pa-
tients themselves. In order to be of any value, the higher
magnetic phenomena ought to proceed from the voluntai-y
and unsolicited manifestation of the patient, instead of
being forced upon him by the operator. When purelv
and spontaneously manifested, they may be enlisted, as
genuine facts, into the service of science ;
or, as in the
case of the awakened instinct of remedies, they may be
employed for the benefit of the patient himself, or of those
who are placed e7i rapport with him.
4. The higher magnetic states do not constitute a fit
or proper subject for public exhibition ; and much injury
has been done to the cause of magnetism by the attempts
of empirics to make a theatrical display of the phenomena.
Laying aside the chances of imposition or deception, it is
certain that, even with the purest motives, we cannot ope-
rate, at all times, upon the nervovis system of living hu-
man beings with the same certainty of success, as in per-
foi-ming experiments upon inorganic matter. Artificial
somnambulism, in its purer forms, cannot be produced at
pleasure, Uke mushrooms on a dung-heap. The higher
phenomena of the sleep-waking state are of comparatively
rare occurrence ; and their manifestation, even in the case
of any particular individual, is, in many cases, exceedingly
variable, and, most frequently, of a very evanescent and
transient nature. Some of these phenomena are occa-
sionally manifested unexpectedly ;
while, at other times,
they cannot be produced by any intentional elfort on the
part of the operator, even i)i the case of the same patient.
It ought to be sufficient, however, for the requisites of
APPENDIX. 179
science, as well as for the conviction of every candid and
unprejudiced mind, that the manifestation of these phe-
nomena has been witnessed and attested by the most com-
petent and credible observers. Every individual can
scarcely hope to become acquainted with all the pheno-
mena of nature, especially in her less obvious and fami-
liar manifestations, from actual personal observation.
Many things must necessarily be behoved upon the evi-
dence of satisfactory testimony, otherwise our knowledge
would have a very limited extent. Ars longa ; Vita Ire-
vis. Indeed, it appears to be wisely ordered by Provi-
dence, that all truths are not made the immediate pro-
perty of any one individual, or even of any one age ; but
that, for the gratification of the inquisitive nature of man,
and the constant exercise of his intellectual faculties, many
things are left for the gradual discovery of the successive
generations of the species.
5. It cannot be too frequently repeated and enforced
—^for a want of attention to the circumstance has been
the cause of much abuse and animadversion—that, in
order to the pure and perfect developement of the artifi-
cial somnambulism, the patient ought to be kept as quiet
and secluded as possible, and carefully protected against
all risk of external disturbance. This precaution is es-
sential, not only to the perfect developement of the phe-
nomena, but also to the comfort and well-being of the
patient himself. In somnambulism, it must be remem-
bered, the usual organs of sensation are dormant, and,
consequently, the relations of the individual with the ex-
ternal world undergo a complete change. The outward
inlets to perception, apprehension and intelligence, are
closed up ;
the manifestations of the internal instinctive
lile^gradually become more and more perfectly developed •
the internal feelings acquire a wonderful increase of acute-
ness and delicacy; until, at length, those most extraor-
dinary phenomena are occasionally exhibited, which have
astomshed the sober philosopher, and called forth the .
contempt and ridicule of the coarse, and narrow-minded,
and incorrigible sceptic and acoffer. A forcible attemp
180 APPENDIX.
to open the eyes of a somnambulist, or any other violent
interference with his manifestations, disturbs the calm and
quiet current of this species of internal life
—perhaps may
occasion dangerous, or, at all events, unpleasant reactions
—by dragging him again, suddenly, back into his ordinary
relations with the world around him ; and every antagonist
influence—whether physical, psychical, or moral—operat-
ing within the limits of the magnetic circle, has a similar
tendency to interrupt the even tenor of this peculiar state
of existence. The coarse and brutal conduct occasion-
ally exhibited towards patients in this state, by some of
our British sceptics, deserves the severest reprobation
—
it is a reproach to the scientific character of our country
—and constitutes another decided objection to all public
exhibitions of the phenomena.*
6. Individuals, when in a state of somnambulism, are
found to be exceedingly sensitive, and frequently mani-
fest extraordinai-y and unaccountable sympathies and an-
tipathies. This circumstance, alone, affords a weighty
objection to all public exhibitions of the magnetic phe-
nomena, as well as to all public and promiscuous admi-
nistration of this particular remedy. It is well known to
every practical and experienced magnetiser how much, in
the case of somnambulists, the progress and the efficacy
of the magnetic treatment, as well as the manifestation
of the particular phenomena, may be influenced and
counteracted by the presence, and, especially, by the sud-
den intrusion, or interference, of strangers, more particu-
larly of sceptical persons. The most violent convulsions
not unfrequently occur, when individuals approach som-
nambulists to whom the latter feel an antipathy, although
we may be quite unable to discover any reason why such
* What man of common sense and ordinaiy feeling would think
of tearin<J a piece of flesli from a patient's body, or of giving him a
severe blow witli a cndgel, in order to test his sensibility m the mag-
lietic somnamljulism ? Yet such things, we understand, have been
actually done, even by professional men, in this country.—Pre*/*
Pvxlor / o
AtPENDlJt. 181
an antipathy should exist.* The nervous system of
somnambulists, in general, exhibits a peculiar species, at
least a degree of sensitiveness or irritability, which is al-
most entirely unknown in the ordinary state, although
phenomena somewhat analogous have been occasionally
witnessed in certain of the more common instances of dis-
eased action. Many prudent and cautious magnetisers,
therefore, lay it down, as a general rule, never to admit
strangers as idle or merely inquisitive spectators of the
magnetic treatment ; and in this determination, it is
thought, they act wisely.
There must always, therefore, be something mysteri-
ous in the whole essence, and in the practice of animal
magnetism ; and every attempt to make a public exhibi-
tion of the phenomena, at least in the present state of
our knowledge, may not only be attended with danger-
ous consequences, but must prove, in many respects,
abortive. These phenomena, indeed, will not always ap-
pear at the importunate summons of royal societies, of
theatrical^ managers, or of itinerant lecturers. By far
the most interesting cases have occurred in private prac-
tice, where the witnesses, few, but intelligent and cau-
tious, were en rapport with the patient, and all adverse
external influences were carefully excluded from the mag-
netic circle. We cannot conduct experiments of this de-
licate nature, and, above all, upon the human subject in
an abnormal state of the sensibility, in the same manner,
and with the same confidence of success, as we should
proceed in the case of a piece of senseless, unintelligent,
artificial mechanism. This appearance of seclusion and
mystery, it is true, may injure the magnetisers, for a
time, in the eyes of vulgar observers, and may give oc-
casion to the silly sneers and coarse ridicule of the scep-
* This is probably a consequence of the exalted sensibility of the
ganglionic portion of the nervous system.
r.J^,°T """Ir'
'"Stances of this apparently irrational anti-
oWv'p?-
""""^^"'y >-efer to some very remarkable phenomena
n
"
Tr P^*'^"^« Sir J. D. Brandis, and mentioned
jn m book :
Ueber Psychmhe Heilmitiel wid Mwjnetmms, p. 120.
182 APPENDIX.
tic and the scoffer ; but it will constitute no valid objec-
tion to their proceedings in the judgment of the rational
physician and philosopher, who can appreciate the purity
of their motives, the delicacy of their feelings, the probitv
of their character, and the importance of their humane and
disinterested labours. If we neglect the essential precau-
tions to which we have just adverted, we can never hope
to witness any of the higher and more interesting phe-
nomena of somnambulism, or to render the magnetic
treatment conducive to the best interests of science, or to
the welfare of society.
7. The erroneous view which appears to be taken, es-
pecially in this country, in regard to the true objects of
zoo-magnetic science, tends to a very mischievous misap-
plication of its processes. The great utility of animal
magnetism—as we have again and again observed—con-
sists in its demonstrated efficacy as a remedy in diseases.
This, indeed, is the only legitimate object to which it
may be applied. But, with us, the value of the art ap-
pears to be considered by many as consisting solely in
the power of producing the extraordinary phenomena of
somnambulism, which, however, are merely the accessory
effects of the treatment, although erroneously viewed as
the principal aim and end of the magnetiser. In this
great manufacturing and mercantile country, om* mag-
netic artisans appear to look upon the living human or-
ganism as merely the apparatus of a machine, like a
spinning or weaving mill for the manufacture of all sorts
of fashionable phenomena, which may turn out a profit-
able speculation, by bringing a remunerating price in the
goods-market. Itinerant lecturers and exhibitors may be
considered as the commercial travellers for the great con-
cern. We should not be much surprised to hear of a
proposal for the application of steam-power to the pro-
duction of somnambuhsm, with its various concomitant
})lienomena. The manifestations of phreno-magnetic
ience, as it is called, might then be exhibited in the
human mechanism, with all the regularity and precision
of horological machinery. Now that mind has been
APPENDIX. 183
tompletely exterminated by the bold brain-ivork of the
famous philosophers of the cerebration-school, these
splendid anticipations may be converted from mere
desideria into actual realities.
But to be serious---the higher phenomena of the sleep-
waking state never ought to be made the principal ob-
ject of the magnetic treatment ;
otherwise, instead of
leading to a restoration of health, by converting morbid
into normal action, it may become the cause of an entire
and, perhaps, irremediable disorganization of the nervous
system of the patient. In the legitimate exercise of the
magnetic art, as well as in the idiopathic somnambulism,
abundant instances of these higher phenomena will na-
turally present themselves, without any violent efforts on
the part of the magnetiser ; and these phenomena may
then become fit subjects for philosophical speculation.
One remark, however, must be added. The mere
physical magnetist, who entirely excludes the co-opera-
tion of the mind and the will, may be compared to the
mill-owner, who attempts to set his machinery in motion,
without the assistance of his steam, or other moving
power. A self-acting machine, or perpetuum mobile,
we believe, is a thing still unknown in mechanical philo-
sophy, although sometimes hypothetically, but vainly,
assumed in certain material theories of mind. Even the
ordinary physician cannot safely overlook the moral af-
fections and impulses implanted in the human constitu-
tion ;
and, with all the most enlightened magnetists, we
are decidedly of opinion that the magnetic phenomena
never can be satisfactorily explained upon merely physi-
cal and mechanical principles.
In order to the farther elucidation of the various de-
grees and varieties of the somnambulistic affection, and,
at the same time, to prevent young and inexperienced in-
quirers from expecting to find in 07ie state, the manifes-
tations which are peculiar to another, and being thus led
to deny—as some have been induced to do—the reality of
phenomena which have been fully demonstrated to have
184 APPENDIX.
occurred in certain states, we shall now solicit the reader's
attention to the following observations :
—
It has been sometimes objected to animal magnetism,
as detracting from the merit of the discovery, that the
somnambulism occasionally produced by the processes of
Mesmer, may be induced by other means, or arise—as
in many cases of the idiopathic somnambulism—from
causes which we do not know and cannot explain.
Now, we admit the difference in degree, if not in kind,
between the various species of somnambulism, viewed as
a generic designation, and their very various inducing
causes, and should be most happy did we find ourselves
enabled to explain them physiologically, in order that we
might have it in our power to assign to the magnetic
somnambulism its proper rank in the philosophical classi-
fication. But matters are not yet quite ripe for such a
procedure. In the meantime, however, we may observe,
in regard to this point, that all the various forms of this
state appear to differ only in degree, i. e. in the intensity
of the atfection ; and that it might not be so ditficult, if
the ordinary sleep and dreaming were once satisfactorily
explained, to proceed from thence to the middle stages,
and thence again to the higher fonns of the lucid som-
nambulism (^clairvoyance), and, at length, to discover a
physiological explanation which might be found applica-
ble to the whole. Kluge and others, indeed, have at-
tempted to give a classification of the various degrees of
the magnetic somnambulism, and of their relative pheno-
mena ; but all of these attempts have been admitted to be
imperfect. The labour of classification, indeed, is ren-
dered the more difiicult that the sjouptoms do not always
appear in regular gradation ; a great deal, apparently, de-
pending upon the constitutional idiosyncrasy of the opera-
tor, and the peculiar sensibility of the patient. Wi en-
holt mentions in his work, that a very small number of
his patients became somnambulists ;
whereas, in the prac-
tice of others, the affection is very frequently produced.
Some patients, also, are much more liable to fall into som-
nambulism than others, &c. We shall subjoin the arrange-
APPENDIX. 185
ment proposed byProfessor Kieser of Jena, an eminent
physician and physiologist, who has bestowed great atten-
tion upon this subject ; but we must premise that his, as well
as almost all other classifications of these states, is founded
upon a theory of the peculiar and antagonist functions of
the cerebral and ganglionic portions of the nervous system,
which, however ingenious and probable, has not, so far
as we are aware, been hitherto sanctioned by the physio-
logists of this country. In this theory it is assumed that
the cerebral influence predominates during the waking
state of the individual, the ganglionic during sleep and
its analogous affections. The following is Kieser's ar-
rangement.*
1. Sleep and Dreaming.—Ganglionic life in its lowest
stage.—The activity of the brain is not yet entirely sup-
pressed ; therefore some recollection remains in the wak-
ing state. Profound dreams, the higher state, according-
ly, leave no recollection behind, unless in a new dream.
Parallel states are : many kinds of catalepsy, fainting,
tetanus, epilepsy.
2. Sleep and SpeaJcing —Somniloquism.—The
dreams are more perfectly formed. The ideas produced
by the activity of the ganglions afiect the organs of
speech, while the organs of motion are entirely quiescent.
The activity of the brain is more and more suppressed,
while that of the ganglions is increased. Hence, recol-
lection in the waking state is less frequent than in the
previous degree.—Parallel states : the delirium of fevers,
delirium mite, sxid the more developed foms of catalepsy,
epilepsy, &c.
3. Sleep and Motion—Soainambulism.—Still more
* When the author, several years ago, called the public attention,
in this country, to the importance of the ganglionic portion of the
nervous system, in enabling us to explain the rationale of sleep and
dreams, and the phenomena of animal magnetism, his notions were
received with much suspicion and scepticism by our British physio-
logists. Of late, however, it would appear that more attention has
been paid to this subject ; and we trust that the great importance
of the ganglionic ftmctions in the nervous economy will soon come
to be more generally recognised and appreciated.
186 APPENDIX.
perfect developement of the dreaming state ; the whole
body being now subjected to the activity of the ganglions.
Recollection now becomes still less frequent, because the
activity of the brain continues to decrease Parallel
states: chorea Sti Viti ; epilepsia percursoiHa ; mania
furibunda ; melancholia sylvestris, ^c.
4. Sleep and Tliinking—Clairvoyance.—The gan-
glionic life, which, in the previous stages had not yet
awakened into consciousness, but dreamt, spoke, and act-
ed instinctively, now awakes, in a higher degree of de-
velopement, to a relative consciousness, and to internal
intuition. Recollection is entirely obliterated, because
the cerebral life must sink with the increasing develope-
ment of the ganglionic. But the ganglionic life is, in
consequence of its nature, less individual, more general ;
therefore, space and time, as the forms by which the ce-
rebral life is limited, disappear, and the soul sees forward
and backward into unmeasured time, and through im-
measured space. Transposition of the sensitive functions,
prosopopeia and anthropomorphism, seeing at a distance,
&c. may then be easily explained from the physiology of
the ganglionic life. But our pi-esent physiology and
psychology are limited entirely to the phenomena of the
cerebral life ; and we must abstract our attention from
the latter, in order to comprehend the former ;
just as
the somnambulist must wholly abandon the ordinary wak-
ing life, in order to become clairvoyant.
So much for the physiology of the matter. The etio-
logy of somnambulism points out the various influences,
which, afi'ecting the ganglionic life—according as they
operate more or less powerfully, or meet with greater or
less susceptibility—produce the higher or lower forms of
somnambulism. (See ArcMv fiiy den thierischen 3Iag-
netismus ; III. 1. pp. 129, &c. Note.)
Having now, as we conceive, completely demonstrated
the reality of the fact—occasionally manifested, although
so obstinately controverted—of the exercise of vision, or,
at least, of the acquisition of visual perceptions, without
APPENDIX. 187
the assistance of the eyes,* we shall now proceed to ex-
hibit a statement of those hypothetical principles, upon
which some of the most eminent physiological magnetists
upon the continent have endeavoured to account for this
curious aud much contested phenomenon. We request
it may be observed, however, that whatever may be
thought of the sufficiency of these theories, the fact it-
self has now been estabUshed beyond all controversy.
This observation we consider the more necessary, because
in all the pretended refutations of animal magnetism, it
seems to have been hitherto conceived that to invalidate
a theory was to annihilate a fact.
A great deal of the scepticism exhibited in regard to
the manifestation of sensitive perception, without the as-
sistance of the special organs, has probably arisen from
the imperfect notions generally entertained with respect
to the perceptive process itself. The objections proceed-
ing from this source of fallacy we have endeavoured to
obviate in the introduction to this volume. " Let us con-
sider," says Dr Biihrens, an early and inteUigent advocate
of animal magnetism, " let us consider that it is only the
mind of man which gives reality to all things ; and that,
otherwise, there is for us no foundation for substantial
being, beyond the feeling of personal identity. Exten-
sion, to which we give the name of body, is nothing else
than a relation to our sensitive faculties. The material
organs of sense have reference only to the principle which
operates upon them. The sensations excited in our mind
by light and sound have nothing in common with the
conditions under which light and sound are produced ;
the soul hears and sees by means of ears and eyes, be-
cause these organs are themselves material. The essen-
tial properties we ascribe to matter—extension and im-
penetrability—-are, perhaps, not essentially existing ; and
* In the state of which we have been speaking, the whole ex-
ternal sensibility is abolished ; and the fact of the absence of the
ordinary functions of hearing, smelling, tasting, might be equally
well demonstrated as that of the insensibility of the special organ
of sight, although the patient still enjoys the faculties of hearing,
smell, and taste, as that of sight, by other means.
188 APPENDIJC.
matter itselr may, perhaps, be something quite different
from what we conceive it to be, because our notions of
extension and impenetrability are neither extended nor
impenetrable, but merely relative ideas of the mind."—
J. C. Bahrens ; Der animalische Magnetismus, (Src.
1816.
Again :
" The vehicle by means of which the mind
receives sensible perceptions is, properly speaking, not
the nerves themselves, but the aura nervea, or vital spi-
rit which surrounds them. As there exists throughout
nature an aura electrica, magnetica, &c. all of which
are subsumed in the aura vitalis, there is also an aura
nervea, which is only a higher and more purified aura
vitalis. The nerves are the bearers or conductors of this
aura of the general vital spirit. In the brain—the seat
of the higher portion of nervosity—this aura becomes
exalted to a higher degree of spirituality, in order to en-
able it to act as the conductor of the sensible impressions
to the great sensorium. The soul, therefore, presides
over the brain, but without being itself subject to the or-
dinary conditions of space and time. There is no deter-
minate seat of the soul."—" To excite the vital spirit is
to magnetise or mesmerise. By means of mesmerism,
the vital or nervous sphere is developed, expanded, con-
ducted, and thus a healthy state of action produced, by
placing the whole system in a state of equilibrium. The
vital spirit is peculiar to the animal organism, and, there-
fore, all animal matter must be susceptible of animal mag-
netism. This is confirmed by experience. We can mag-
netise fowls, rabbits, dogs, cats, &c., * and in doing so,
we may witness the most extraordinary phenomena."
* Magnetic experiments upon animals have lieen made at diffe-
rent times, and in different countries. The first with which we are
acquainted were those instituted by the Doctors Barker, IlENDnucEz,
and WoLTHERS in Holland, and will be found reported in a work
published by these gentlemen, at Groningen, in the year 1814 and
1818. Similar experiments have been made in France and Ger-
many, and they have been alluded to by Cuvier and others, as in-
validating the imagination-theory, once so popular among the oppo-
APPENDIX. 189
" Mesmerism operates upon the whole peripheric mass
of the nerves, by which means the whole body may be-
come a sense of feeling ;
and, in particular, it affects the
organ of that sense which comprehends sight, hearing,
smell, taste, and touch, but which, in reality, is neither
the one nor the other.
" Physiologists may endea^vour to explain how these
disjecta memh^a sensorii become combined into a gene-
ral central sensorium, while their special organs continue
separate, as in the normal state."
—
I3aehrens, ut supra.
This fact of the union of all the special senses, in the
magnetic state, into one common sense, is confirmed by
the declarations of a number of somnambulists, in regard
to the source of their sensitive perceptions (See, in
particular, the case mentioned by Mr Townshend, and
formerly noticed, page 168.)
According to the hypothesis of Reil, which, under
different modifications, has been generally adopted by al-
most all the German, and by some of the French mao"-
netists, the ganglionic portion of the nervous system, m
general, is considered as the seat of this common sensory,
or combined sensibility ; and this theory is supported by
some well-known facts connected with animal organiza-
tion, into which our limits will not permit us to enter at
present. According to this theory, therefore, if the night-
walkers and somnambulists can see and hear with closed
eyes and ears, it is because, in them, during the abeyance
of the ordinary sensitive organs, the original sense in the
ganglionic portion of the nervous system has been de-
veloped, or emancipated from the control of cerebral ac-
tion ;—just as, in the case of some of the lowest order of
animals, in the absence of any special sensitive organs
we sometimes find an acute external sensitiveness, with
great developement of instinct, constructiveness, and an-
perception.* ^
periments of this land have been more recently made by L)r Wii-
soN of the Middlesex Hospital.
iducoyurwiL-
* The old notion, that all the nerves have their origin in the brain,
190 APPENDIX.
Although the extraordinary phenomenon of which,
we trust, we shall be found to have established the
is manifestly erroneous. On the contrary, the brain is the very
last nervous formation—the climax of natui-e in the structure of
the animal frame. In the very lowest class of animal existence,
we find only the faintest traces of an incipient nervous system—
ganglionic or abdominal nerves—without a brain or spinal chord.
These animals appear to be all stomach. With regard to the httle
hydra or fresh-water polype, Dr Carpenter, in his Physiology, ob-
serves that " this interesting little being may he regarded as essen-
tially a stomach ; that, in the molluscous classes, although the or-
gans which minister to their vegetative flmctions attain a very high
degree of developement, the animal powers of sensation and locomo-
tion are, in general, so feebly manifested, as to show that they are
entirely subservient to the exercise of the former ;" and that, in the
lower classes of invertebrated animals, even the visceral system does
not exist in a distinct form, while, although some appearance of a
sympathetic system may present itself, this is never so distinct as
in the vertebrata.
In proportion as we rise in the scale of animated being, this abdo-
minal nervous system becomes more and more distinctly developed
—ganglions are formed—certain central points of reunion are disco-
vered ;—and, at length, we recognise the first rude vestiges of a spi-
nal elongation, and, ultimately of a brain, or cerebral system. In
those animals whicli manifest merely a more or less perfect deve-
lopement of the abdominal or ganglionic system of nerves, we find
only, in a corresponding degi-ee, motion—at first, perhaps, nearly
automatic—feeling, and instinct, in an inferior or superior degree.
As soon as something approaching to a brain is discovered, a cer-
tain degree of intelligence begins to appear, design seems to be gra-
dually superadded to bhnd instinct ; and this manifestation of in-
telligence increases in the several orders of animal hfe, in propor-
tion as the cerebral system becomes more perfectly developed in
the organization,—from infusorial and molluscous animals up to
man.
In the infusory animalcula^, and in some species of tlie pohjjji,
the sense of feeling, as well as the sensibility to the impression of
light—which afterwards becomes developed into a sense of sight, by
the formation of a jjeculiar and appropriate organ of vision—would
appear to be dispersed, difFiised, and amalgamated with every mo-
lecule of the body ;
observation, at least, conducts us to no other
conclusion, although this point, we believe, has been conti'overtcd
upon speculative grounds. Here, then, we have a phenomenon
which is constantly found in the infusory animalculn',imd the radi-
ate 1 ^5o?,?/7»', in consequence of the peculiarity of their organization,
and tlie circumstance, therefore, does not appear to us to be in an}
way extraordinary. It must be understood, however, that, in these
APPENDIX. 191
reality—the acquisition of sensitive perceptions by other
means than through the instrumentality of the ordinary
apparatus of the special senses—although this phenome-
non has occasioned so much surprise and scepticism, and
even ridicule—and that, too, amongst individuals of con-
siderable repute as physiologists : —Professor Eschen-
MAYER, one of the most philosophical magnetists, consi-
ders it as not only one of the most incontrovertibly prov-
ed, but, also, as one of the least difficult to explain upon
theoretical principles. He very justly observes—and it
seems extraordinary that this fact should not have been
subjected to a philosophical investigation previous to the
time of WiENHOLT—that, even in the case of ordinary
somnambulists, some similar transference of the percep-
tive powers must be admitted to take place. The ease
and security with which they traverse the most danger-
ous places with their eyes closed or visionless, and their
dexterous evasion of all obstacles that may lie in their
way, seem to warrant the conclusion that, in them, the
normal sense of sight is supplied by some other medium
of communication with the external world. Eschen-
MAYER, and many other scientific magnetists, endeavour
to explain this phenomenon upon the principle—to which
we have already alluded—of an inversion of the poles of
the nervous system—the activity of the cerebral being
animals, the sensation produced by the stimuhis of light cannot vet
have the same peculiarities, as in those organs of sight called eves
which are gradually developed in the more perfect animals The
acuteness and delicacy of the sight itself is different in different ani-
mals, and even m different men. But the sense of hght, indisput-
S'l. ^VT7. sensibility to the stimulus of light,
which IS manifested by these infusoria and polypi,^n,\ which, in an
infenor degree, and approaching more to the char;cter of mechan
-
cal in-itation, is to be discovered even in the vegetable Idngdom
Ihe same observations apply to the mollusca, which possess no
cerebral system of nerves, but exist only by means of the^gangl ons
These animals, being acephalous, are destitute of all pecuS™
of special sense ;
yet they appear to recognise everythin7 hat re
n T P'^y^-cal wants. They even manifest some ves ges of
inshnc and artihce-just as the night-walkers and matneti7som
them
" '^"'^ ^'^•^^ '"'^^ ey^^ ™d earsSecause Tn
them, the pnmary sense has been developed in the ganglions
'192 APPENDIX.
superseded by that of the ganglionic nerves. They far-
ther assume, with Reil and his followers, the existence
of a nervous atmosphere, or organic ether—the source of
all perception—which set free from the brain by the
same causes which produce the somnambulistic affec-
tions, constructs for itself a focus, or centre of energy,
in the epigastrium, or in the peripheric terminations of
the nerves ; and as all organic substances are permeable
by this ether, it must be presumed to be capable of ex-
tending its sphere of activity beyond the body, as the
eye and the ear in the normal state, and, thus, of receiv-
ing similar impressions, although in an apparently diffe-
rent manner. The attribute of a covimon sense may be
ascribed to this organic ether. As the differently re-
fracted and coloured rays of light stand in relation to the
white light, which represents their combination, so do the
different special senses, such as the eye, the ear, &c., to
the common sense. Every peculiar apparatus of the senses
presents a different refraction of the organic ether, which,
in the common sense, exists in unity. Whenever, there-
fore, the organic ether becomes disengaged, and forms a
focus for itself, there ensues a transposition, not of the
special organs, but of the common sense itself, which be-
comes sensible of all modifications, in the same manner
as in the brain, its original seat. Herein consists the
whole apparent magic of the phenomenon.
In the ordinary state, we see only by means of the re-
fracting apparatus of the eye, which comprehends only
the surfaces, the colours, and the outlines of objects, and
conveys this combined impression to the common sense
(sensorium commune) attached to the brain ; where the
organic ether, thus affected by it, experiences a peculiar
modification, which, when apprehended by the soul, ge-
nerates a determinate perception of sight. In the mag-
netic state, on the other hand, the soul, by means of the
organic ether, transposes, as has been said, not the or-
gan of the eye, of the ear, &c. ; but the common sense
itself, which passes, without any obstacle, into the ob-
jects, so far as its sphere of operation extends, and sees
APPENDIX. 193
through every thing to which the attention of the mind
is called by questioning. (See Eschenmayer; Versuch
die scheinba7'e Blagie des thierischen Magnetismus, &c.
zu erklciren. 1816.)
The same ingenious philosopher farther observes, else-
where, that we may contrast the sensorium commune,
where all the perceptive impressions unite, with the spe-
cific differences of the special sensitive organs, as unity
with plurality. In the common sensory, the organic
ether acts unconstrained and free ; in the different appa-
ratus of the senses, it is fettered, or rather obscured.
In its free state, it will combine properties which ele-
vate it far above all physical powers. The density of
matter will oppose no obstacle to its action. It will unite
in itself the power of penetrating and illuminating all
things.
Indeed, as Diderot and others have already remark-
ed, we cannot say, with strict propriety, the eye sees, the
ear hears, the nose sm,ells, <^-c. It is always the common
sense which sees, hears, and smells. Let us only consi-
der the difference between sensation —the impression
made upon the special organ ; and perception—the con-
sequent mental affection. The perception is in the com-
mon sense, and is consequent upon the modifications of
the oi-ganic ether, which stand in mere relations of inten-
sity to each other. The sensation, on the other hand,
depends upon a certain form impressed upon the periphe-
ric organ, whether as an image, a vibration, or an undu-
lation. But it is not the image, the vibration, or the undu-
lation, as such, which make their way to the common
sensory, but only the energetic intensity with which it
acts upon the organic ether. These intensities stand un-
der certain exponents, whose co-efficients may vary ad
infinitum ; and in these exponents lies the difference in the
perceptions of sight, sound, &c. If we, therefore, admit
the possibiHty of a state, in which these intensities might
be excited in any other than the usual manner, then this
seemg, hearing, smelling, &c. would also be possible with,
out the interventive agency of the special sensitive appa-
N
194 APPENDIX.
ratus ; and the power of producing such a state we might
recognise in animal magnetism.
The whole peripheric apparatus of our senses, indeed,
seems much better adapted for storing up in the brain
the innumerable sensations impressed upon it, in their
most minute features and outlines, in order that they
may be always ready to afford materials for the mind,
than to represent the only possible means for the forma-
tion of perceptions. It is, no doubt, true, that, in the
normal state of the organism, the sensations in the sen-
sitive apparatus are followed by perceptions ; but from
this it does by no means follow, that, in an extraordi-
nary and abnormal condition of the system, our per-
ceptions must necessarily have a similar cause. In night-
walkers, we see various other nerves perform the office
of the senses ; and the same phenomenon occurs in the
case of somnambulists whether natural or artificial. But
there is this distinction in the latter case, that, as these
extraordinary perceptions are not combined with any for-
mal sensation, there can be no subsequent recollection of
them in the ordinary waking state. The common sense,
indeed, perceives under similar relations of intensity, as
through the cerebral apparatus of the senses ; but as the
sensations do not take place by means of representative
foi-mations, they leave no traces in the memory, no im-
pressions or outlines ;
and, therefore, upon awalcening in-
to the ordinary state, the somnambulists know nothing of
the part they have played during the magnetic sleep. If
we admit this peculiar functional property of the common
sense, and, at the same time assume that the organic
ether, unobscured and unfettered by the apparatus of the
senses, can estabUsh polar relations throughout the whole
of the nervous system, we can have no great difficulty in
accounting for the transference of sensation to the pit of
the stomach, the points of the fingers, &c. As the orga-
nic ether, wherever it acts freely, penetrates and illumi-
nates all objects, the mind no longer requires the special
apparatus, in order to acquire similar perceptions. It is
a free intuition of the soul, obstructed by no intervening
APPENDIX. 195
medium.—Professor Eschenmayer. (See Archiv fur
den thierisclu Magnetisinus ; I. 1. pp. 27, &c.)
Now, let us see what actually takes place in the affec-
tions of which we have been treating. In somnambulism,
or the ecstatic crisis, the material organs, by means of
which the mind communicates with the external world,
are temporarily deprived of their sensibility ;—the mind,
consequently, is placed in an unusual, an abnormal rela-
tion towards the external world. In this situation, the
perceptive manifestations of the individual are of an en-
tirely different character from those of ordinary life ; and
to them, therefore, the same principles of explanation
cannot be rendered applicable. For this reason, the
phenomena of these states must be subjected to a quite
different philosophical and physiological criterion from
that which we employ in our speculations relative to the
normal state of existence—to the ordinary waking life ;
otherwise our judgments will infallibly be incorrect and
incongruous, and inconsistent with the facts presented to
our notice. The phenomena of animal magnetism, we
apprehend, will for ever prove a stumbling-block to the
stubborn partizans of the physiological materialism, who
endeavour to explain all animal manifestations upon the
principle of an inflexible organology, and to whom no-
thing is real but what they can see, hear, touch, taste, or
smell with their usual bodily organs.
Professor Kieser of Jena, a well-known physician
and physiologist, whose learned labours have contributed
so much to the elucidation of the principles and pheno-
mena of animal magnetism, seems disposed to reject the
hypothesis of a nervous fluid and its sensible atmosphere ;
ajid, m accordance with his own system o{ Siderism and
TMuTism* he endeavours to explain the more remark-
able phenomena of animal magnetism—amongst others,
* cZes Tellm-ismus, oder thienschen Magwtisniiis, <S:c
r"i«9r n v^d Professor zu Jena. 2 B. Leip-
zig, l«^0.--Dr KiESER was also the principal editor of the ArcMv
fur den tlmchen Magnetismus, to which he contributed many va-
196 APPENDIX.
those far-seeing andfar-feeling—upon the hypothesis
of a peculiar telluric power, or principle, which, under
any form in which it may be manifested, he presumes to
be capable of acting in distans, and whose action, like
that of light, heat, &c. is supposed to increase in a 7rttio
corresponding with the proximity of the active body.
He assumes a higher and lower degree of intensity in
this power ;
and, in its highest intensity—the psychico-
magnetic—it becomes emancipated from the conditions
of space and time ; and he conceives that, in this state,
its action, in the short period of a second of time, may
reach from the remotest parts of the earth to the anti-
podes.
Now, that this most extraordinary psychico-magnetic
power—under whatever name or character we may de-
signate it—does really exist, as exhibited in its action
upon objects remote from the ordinary organic influence,
no man acquainted with the phenomena can rationally
doubt ; for we have many well authenticated instances
of its occurrence. The great difficulty lies in discover-
ing the nature of this extraordinary power, its peculiar
source, the principle upon which it acts, and the means
by which it communicates in its external operations. All
that is new, however, in the theory of Kieser, it will
be observed, rests entirely upon an hypothesis ; that of
Reil, Eschenmayer, &c.—although in many respects,
also hypothetical—might be more easily brought into
consistency with the ordinary principles of physiology,
which are not impugned by the animal magnetists, when
applied within their proper sphere. All that is required
is that we should concede the distinction between the ap-
propriate functions of the cerebral and ganglionic por-
tions of the nervous system, which alternately exert a
preponderating influence during the respective states of
wakefulness and sleep ; and that we should recognise
the phenomena as resulting from the different species of
manifestation.
The theories, however, by means of which Reil,
Eschenmayer, Kieser, and other philosophical mag-
Appendix. 197
netists have attempted to explain tlie phenomena, may
possibly be quite unintelligible to those who are unac-
quainted with the facts ;—to those who altogether deny
the reality, or even the possibility of these facts, they
may, no doubt, appear absurd and preposterous ;
nay,
they may, perhaps, be denounced as visionary emanations,
or hallucinations, of German mysticism. But if the facts
are generally admitted—and, ultimately, as we conceive,
they must be universally admitted,—these theoretical ex-
planations may be considered as ingenious, at least, if
not probable. The animal magnetists, in general, con-
ceive themselves well entitled to hold the facts to be
true —to be legitimate deductions from experience and
observation—to be as real as the physical phenomena of
the mineral magnetism, or of electricity ;
but, at the
same time, they do not bind themselves down to any
particular theory, however plausible, provided that a
better, and more simple and satisfactory explanation can
be afforded.
Si quid novisti rectim istis
Ccmdidns imperii.
They maintain, however, with perfect confidence, that
every phenomenon must have an adequate cause in na-
ture, whether we are able to discover it or not ;
they ac-
knowledge no peculiar miracles in magnetism ; and,
moreover, they consider it to be in the highest degree
unphilosophical and foolish to hold up to ridicule any
honest attempt to elucidate the more obscure and hitherto
unexplained phenomena of nature. And no real philo-
sopher—no genuine disciple of the illustrious Bacon—
will presume to deny the reality of ascertained facts of
an interesting character, merely because attempts may
have been, perhaps prematurely, made to account for
them upon erroneous, uncertain, or unsatisfactory prin-
ciples. We must just take the facts as they are presented
to us by nature ; and unless we are willing to adopt one
or other of those hypotheses which men of learning and
philosophical acuteness, possessing an intimate knowledge
of the particular subject, have been induced to propound,
198 APPENDIX.
as affording a solution of the problem, or are prepared
to bring forward some more satisfactory theory of our
own ; it is feared that we shall never become capable of
attaining to an adequate explanation of the phenomena.
In this instance, as in the case of many of the other
mysteries of nature, it may then be said that we know
only the facts, and are not likely to know any thing more.
One point, however, is perfectly clear. Onr ordinary
systems of physiology present no clew to guide us through
this labyrinth of extraordinary facts. " The magnetic
power," says Professor Kieser, " may be recognised
not only in the nervous system and in its polarity in the
cerebral and ganglionic portions of it ; but in the whole
life of man, as in the whole of the organism, and in every
individual organ—nay, even in the whole life of a people ;
and whenever a vital process appears, it appropriates to
itself the one-half, which we have denominated the night-
side of life. Herein, then, is shewn the value of the
hitherto one-sided and partial character of the doctrine
of animal magnietism, as well in regard to the efficient
power, as also in respect to the physiological phenomena ;
—and its universal character is thus brought to light
;
which is founded in nothing else than in the night-side
or the telluric life, of all and every earthly existence.
That which our physiology has hitherto sought to ex-
plain, and upon which all the powers of the understand-
ing have been expended, is merely the day-side of life,
day-life; the converse of this—the explanation of which
is of equal value—was only known in its lowest degree
—the state of simple sleep ; while the higher degrees,
as well as the entire subject, found no place in our phy-
siologicaPtreatises. The phenomena of animal magne-
tism, however, have now conducted us to a more intimate
knowledge of the characteristic distinction in question,
and to a more extensive investigation of the whole sub-
ject. Henceforth, physiology must embrace not merely
the activity of the cerebral, but also that of the gan-
glionic portion of the nervous system ; —not only the
phenomena of the day-life, but also those of the tcllurif
APPENDIX. 199
or night-life (See Archiv Jur den thierischen Magr
netismus ; VI. iii. p. 186.)
Before we terminate our discussion of this curious and
important subject, there are still some extraordinary phe-
nomena which deserve our attention. From the cases
formerly adduced, it must have been observed, that the
manifestation of sensitive perception has been found to
be transferred, not merely to the epigastrium—although
this is the most common—but also, occasionally, to dif-
ferent other parts of the body. This circumstance has led
to some interesting speculations in regard to the central
point of vital energj^ in somnambulism. As we may as-
sume that, in the waking state, all the special energies of
the individual organs of the vegetative, animal and sensi-
tive life, according to Reil, converge towards an idea!
point in the brain, called the seat of the soul ; in the
same manner we must assume, that, in the somnambu-
list, as soon as he awakes to self-consciousness, a similar
central relation, a similar concentration of the corporeal
and spiritual faculties takes place, only towards a totally
different centre from that of ordinary life, and which
bears the same relation to the seat of the soul as sleep to
waking. Notwithstanding the similarity of the spiritual
functions, every one who has observed a lucid somnam-
bulist, must admit that they are of a totally different cha-
racter from those manifested in the waking state. It is
equally clear—and not only decidedly expressed by som-
nambulists themselves, but to be deduced, also, from a
multitude of phenomena—that, in somnambulism, the
brain loses its appropriate functions, and, from a supe-
rior, sinks into a comparatively subordinate relation.
From this, then, it appears to follow, that there can be
only one central point of vital energy, and that another
portion of the nervous system, previously subordinate,
assumes this character. This point, then, becomes the
temporary centre—the seat of the soul ; and all the other
parts of the system—even the brain itself—converge to-
wards it, and are governed by it.
But here arises the important question : What part of
the nervous system, in these circumstances, becomes the
200 APPENDIX.
central point ? Is it always one and the same ; or is it
different at different times, and in different somnambu-
lists ?
The general opinion—supported by Reil's ingenious
inquiries into the relations subsisting between the gan-
glionic system and the brain—is that, in the magnetic
sleep, the great ganglionic plexus in the abdomen—the
plexus Solaris—assimies the functions of the brain. This
opinion is i-endered more probable by many of the phe-
nomena of somnambulism ; and it has been fully illus-
trated by Professor Kieser, and by a number of other
learned physiologists. According to the opinion of
others, it is either the brain itself, or the sympathetic
system, which is the central organ in somnambulism.
But here, it may be asked, may not, in different cases of
somnambulism, a different part of the nervous system
become the central organ, as the sense of sight, as we
have seen, is sometimes transferred to the points of the
fingers, sometimes to the region of the stomach, and
sometimes, as has been remarked, during clairvoyance,
remains in the eye itself ; so that, perhaps, in the great-
est number of cases, the plexus Solaris, while, in others,
—determined by the fonn of the affection—another ner-
vous centre becomes elevated into the seat of the soul ?
If we admit the ti'ansposition of the poles of sensibili-
ty in somnambulism, by which the central point of the
sensitive life is transferred from the brain to some other
organ, it is not clear why, as in metastatic affections,
sometimes one, sometimes another organ, but always that
most susceptible of disease is attacked—so, in the case
of somnambulism, a different organ of the nervous sys-
tem—especially that most susceptible of zoo-magnetic
action—may not be elevated to the dignity of an organ
of the soul. If we once assiune, so to speak, a metemp-
sychosis in the sphere of our own body, (without which,
do as we will, we cannot attain to any physiological
principle in this matter,) then, mider certain conditions,
any part of the nervous system may became an organ of
the soul, viz. always that part which is most excitable ;
and the organ of the soul can thus be transferred out of
Appendix. 201
the central part of the brain into a peripheric part of it,
as into the great ganglionic plexus of the abdomen, or
into any other ganglion, provided this part of the ner-
vous system stands in the relation of a centre, although
in a lower sphere, in subordination to the brain—that is,
provided it be really a ganglion in the physiological
sense.* Hence, perhaps, a difference might take place
between male and female somnambulists ;
seeing that,
in the latter, in consequence of the greater activity of
the abdominal ganglions, even in the normal state, most
nervous diseases are reflected, and somnambulism, also,
most frequently developed in that sex.—(See Kieser,
Archivfiir den thierischen Magnetismus, II. ii. pp. 109,
&c.)
The author has now laid before his readers a sum-
mary of the evidence in favour of the fact of vision with-
out the assistance of the eyes, along with an account of
that theory upon which those eminent men, who have
most minutely investigated the phenomenon, have endea-
voured to account for it. The fact itself is of no small
importance to the sciences of physiology and psychology ;
and the theory it is thought, deserves the attention of
every inquiring mind. The latter—the theory—if ad-
mitted, may be found capable of elucidating many other
curious and interesting phenomena, besides that which
has been the subject of our present investigation.
* The following passage from Mr Swan's treatise on Tlie princi-
pal offices of the Brain and other Nervous Centres, is to us rather
obscure, but if we have rightly apprehended its meaning, it seems
to lend some countenance to the views developed in our text.
" The uses of ganglia are twofold ;
first, as they relate to the
brain and spinal marrow ; secondly, as they relate to the organs of
the body. For the first, they are so constructed that no impulses
shall be carried through them which do not accord with, or would
disturb any of the faculties of the brain and spinal marrow ; for
the second, that they may, at the same time, agree with the struc-
ture and reqiiired functions of the organs of the body to be sup-
phed by their means. Therefore, when the motive and sensitive
pm-ts amd the viscera are equally and sufficiently related to them,
they are Capable of performing the Amctions of the whole nervoxis
system.
POSTSCEIPT.
" The systematic disingenuoiisness of some Medical Journals on
this subject, and the far-fetched calumnies and offensive assumptions
with which it is the regular practice of a large number of the faculty
to assail every case of cure or relief by Mesmerism, looks very
much as if they were in conflict with powerful truth, and as if they
knew it."
Miss Martineau,
SrNCE this little publication went to press, I have seen
a pamphlet pubUshed by Dr Forbes of London one of
the editors, it is believed, of the British and Foreign
Medical Revieiv—entitled, Mesmerism true Mes-
merism FALSE ; upon which I must take the liberty of
making a few hurried observations. It would certainly
become the members of the medical faculty to devote
some serious attention to a subject wluch, for a consider-
able period, has excited no little sensation throughout the
country; but although this production of Dr Forbes
exhibits, in certain respects, a somewhat altered tone of
sentinient in regard to the merits of Mesmerism ; it still
contains, in my humble opinion, a little too much of the
old leaven of supercilious scepticism and professional
jealousy.
The title of the pamphlet appears to me to be rather
a strange one. Mesmerism—so far as the asserted
204 POSTSCRIPT.
operative principle or agent is involved—cannot be both
true and false ; the author, doubtless, means that some
of the alleged phenomena are true, and some of them are
false. But even this interpretation does not appear to
express the intended meaning : For, so far as I have been
able to perceive, Dr Forbes does not expressly say that
any of the facts in question are actually false ; but only
that, in his opinion, sufficient evidence of their reahty
has not yet been adduced. Even had he ventui-ed to
affirm that he considered certain alleged facts to be ab-
solutely false, he might have been gently reminded that
his judgment is not altogether infallible, and that these
facts were still open to experimental demonstration before
another and less partial tribunal.
The learned Doctor, indeed, appears anxious to effect
a compromise between plenary belief and absolute scep-
ticism in this matter ;
and, accordingly, while he accuses
the medical sceptics of " uninquiring, unreasoning, dog-
matic unbelief," he, at the same time, charges the " abet-
tors of the new doctrines" with " blind faith and head-
long enthusiasm." The foi'mer accusation we readily ad-
mit—the latter charge we must take the liberty of deny-
ing. The magnetists feel that they must just take the
facts of their science as they find them evolved by expe-
rience. They do not pretend to be able to control the
operations of nature, nor do they venture to say to her,
with Dr Forbes and the sceptics : Hitherto shalt thou
go, and 710 farther. There is not one, even of what are
called the extraordinary phenomena—the marvels—of
animal magnetism, which does not rest upon the most
ample evidence, and which the supporters of that doc-
trine are not, at all times, ready to demonstrate ; evi-
dence, too, which has satisfied many men of the highest
eminence in medicine and in science. The inveterate
sceptics alone will not look fairly at these facts—will not
even listen with patience to the evidence adduced in sup-
port of them. This last surely is prejudice. Were the
mind a tabula rasa, did no previous notions exist in re-
gard to the possibilities or impossibilities of nature's ope-
IPOSTSCRII'T. 205
i-ations, these facts, indeed, would just take their place
among the other sensible phenomena which are more
familiar to observation. But the prejudices of foreclosed
science are exceedingly hostile to the admission of new
and more enlarged views ;
nay, some men appear to be
naturally so inimical to progressive truth, that they can-
not, or will not see the sun at bright noon-day ;
and,
moreover, their powers of observation are so perverted,
that they never can bring themselves to look a new and
obnoxious object faii'ly in the face, but will always en-
deavour to discover some point, from which they may
view it in the most oblique and distorted manner pos-
sible.
Dr Forbes is disposed to admit some of the pheno-
mena of animal magnetism, when pared down, pruned,
and adjusted, so as to square with his own notions ; but
farther than this he declines to go. He will follow na-
ture, so long as she will consent to walk within the arbi-
trary boundaries he is pleased to assign for her legiti-
mate perambulations ; but the moment she rebels, and
attempts to exceed these limits, he gives her the slip, bids
her adieu—or, perhaps, endeavours to whip her in. The
learned Doctor, indeed, is exceedmgly profuse of his pro-
fessions of liberality, impartiality, &c. But, somehow
or other, he always allows himself to be drawn ovei*
forcibly, and against his will, no doubt—to the sceptical
side of things, and appears to revel in the most partial
representation of the facts—always to the discredit of
Mesmerism.
It may appear very presumptuous in an unprofessional
person to call in question any of the medical opinions of an
eminent physician ;
yet I very humbly beg leave to suggest
that Dr Forbes may be wrong in confounding hyste-
ria, catalepsy, and somnambulism, which would appear to
constitute three distinct states, or forms of abnormal ner-
vous action. In some cases, indeed, they may be compli-
cated ; but they may also exist separately ; and, by means
of certain artificial processes, they may be made to alter-
nate. In confirmation of this opinion, I would refer to
o
206 POSTSCRIPT.
the experiments and observations of the Doctors Pete-
tin and Renard, and to the works of many eminent
medical magnetists. But the term hysteria appears to
be used m a rather vague and indefinite sense by our
Enghsh ])hysicians, instead of being Umited to those
symptoms to which its derivation would seem to restrict
It. Dr Forbes, indeed, speaks rather contemptuously of
Dr Petetin, whom he designates as a confrere of 'the
magnetists. But the reputation of Dr Petetin is very
differently estimated upon the continent ; and he was not
a mngnetisl at the time he instituted his experiments and
made his discoveries. This unfavom-able opinion of Dr
FoKBES, too, must be held to implicate all the eminent
physicians and learned men of that day in Lyons and
the neighbourhood—MM. Coladon, Ginet, Domin-
JON, Doi-omieu, Ballanches, Jacquiek, Martin
DE Saint-Genis, Eynakd, &c. who repeated Pete-
tin's experiments, and obtained complete conviction of
the reality of the phenomena. Now, however high the
character and pretensions of Dr Forbes, we must be
pei-mitted to doubt whether he is entitled to speak with
disparagement of such men as I have named. The
learned Doctor, it may be observed, does not appear to be
acquainted with the experiments of Renard.
Dr Forbes considers it "most remarkable, and da-
maging in the extreme to mesmeric testimomj" that
some attribute influence to the " will," while others as-
cribe everything to " material gesture." For an impar-
tial inquirer, indeed, Dr Foubes appears to us to be a
great deal too fond of making discoveries " damaging in
the exti'enie to mesmeric testimony ;" but it is rather as-
tonishing that, in the present instance, a gentleman of
his sagacity should not have had penetration enough to
perceive that it is much easier to. reconcile these two ap-
parently discrepant opinions, than to accomplish his fa-
vourite project of a compromise between the magnetists
and the sceptics. In magnetising, it may be observed,
some operators do make use of gestures or manipulations ;
others do not. A certain school of nifignetists emplovcd
4
POSTSCRIPT. 207
no gestures whatever, and yet succeeded. The latter
method appears to demonstrate the influence of the will
—the foimer does not disprove it ; and this is the only
legitimate inference which can be logically deduced from
the facts. There is here, therefore, no such " damag-
ing" inconsistency as the learned Doctor seems to sup-
pose. The opinion of almost all of the most eminent mag-
netists is that the will of the operator has a most decided
influence in the determination of the phenomena—in
which opinion I entirely concur ; and this influence is
not excluded, but rather re-inforced, by the employment
of " material gestures" or manipulations. Dr Forbes,
indeed, says that professed magnetisers impute the dififer-
ences of manifestation to " different magnetisers being on
the look outfor'—as he calls it—^or, as we should say
—
willing " difi'erent phenomena." The mode of expres-
sion does not essentially alter the meaning : The opinion,
in either case, equally implies an exercise of the will.
Dr Forbes—who boasts so much of his impartiality
—does not hesitate to give a completely one-sided ac-
count of the Burdin afikir, considering it, no doubt, as
" damaging in the extreme" to the pretensions of mes-
merism. He speaks of the judges in this matter having
been impartially chosen ; yet the very first person he
names—M. Dubois—had previously been most conspi-
cuously distinguished for his outrageous scepticism, and
has been, moreover, publicly accused, upon good grounds,
of the most disingenuous practices. (See Ms Revelata,
3d Edition, Preface.) And the learned Doctor quotes
his " illustrative cases" from the work of the sceptics—
MM. Burdin and Dubois—the one being unwilling to
part with his money, the other to abandon his scepticism •
without taking the slightest notice of the published state-
ments of parties on the other side. This, again, in our
opinion, IS not impartiality. Dr Forb es, indeed, seems
to have rather queer notions of impartiality, as the Irish
are said to have of justice.
In the case of M. Pigeaire, counter-statements were
published by that physician himself, by Dr Frapart
208 POSTSCRIPT.
and by M. Aubin Gauthier in his learned work—^w-
toire du Somnamhulisme—which are " damaging in the
extreme" to the report of the committee, upon which Dr
Forbes so much rehes. Is Dr Forbes aware that, in
this particular case, the academical committee never at-
tended a single experimental seance
—
never made any
investigation at all—never witnessed any experiment,
either as members of the committee, as physicians, or as
mere individuals—never even saw the child who ivas to
he the subject of experiment, either in somnambulism, or
in her ordinary state ; and, moreover, that this commit-
tee has been publicly accused by M. Gauthier of hav-
ing made a false report (rapport mensonger) to their
constituents ? (See Isis Revelata, 3d Edition, as above )
Now, Dr Forbes either knew these facts, or he did
not. If he knew them, he has not thought proper to
make any allusion to them ; and this, once more, in our
opinion, is not impartiality. If he did not know them,
we would very humbly advise the learned doctor to
be a little more minute in his researches before he ven-
tures to bring forward matters " damaging in the ex-
treme to mesmeric testimony."
But, farther,—and this should have been known to Dr
Forbes, provided he took the trouble to read the report of
the committee in the Pigeaire case, as he ought to have
done—the committee admit that in reality " the somnam-
bulist did read with her eyes bandaged'—how they came
to know this is a different thing ;
but, as is usual with
the sceptics as to mesmerism, they attempt to get rid of
the fact by a theory or presumption of their own, which
is by far the most easy way of getting over all difficulties.
Farther still, a prize offifty thousandfrancs \\a.s offer-
ed to any member of this committee who should be able to
see through the mask of Mademoiselle PigeA i r e ; and this
prize was to be augmented to the sum of seventy thou-
sand francs if the experiment should be successfully
performed by either of the Doctors Dubois or Bouil-
LAUD. It is almost needless to say that this challenge
was not accepted.
POSTSCRIPT. 209
Of all these facts Dr Forbes takes no notice ;
and
this omission, in our opinion, affords no proof of imparti-
ality. Audi alteram partem is a privilege which the
learned Doctor does not seem very willing to concede to
the magnetists.
Dr Forbes appears to hold in sovereign contempt the
testimony of unprofessional persons—" peers, deputies,
and George Sand." We, on the contrary, hold that
such persons—contemptible as they would seem to be in
the opinion of the learned Doctor—are equally, if not
more competent to observe facts, and more likely to be
impartial witnesses, than sceptical and prejudiced medi-
cal men. At all events, the Doctors must not be permit-
ted to deprive all other persons of their senses and their
judgment, and to take credit for a monopoly of the whole
of these faculties, along with impartiality, to themselves.
By the bye, Dr Forbes takes no notice of the follow-
ing individuals, members of the Academies of Science
or of Medicine, who condescended to witness the Pige-
Ai RE experiments—MM. Arago, Orfila, Bousquet,
GUENEAU DE MUSSY, AdELON, RiBES, ReVEILLE-
Parise, &c. Now, we do not by any means assert that
any of these individuals are comparable to our learned
Doctor in point of scientific or medical attainments ; still
they are all men of some little note ; their countenance
would certainly give eclat to the proceedings, and their
opinions, upon the subject of these experiments, would be
valuable.
In the preface to the third edition of Isis Revelata, I
have given my reasons for believing that the Burdin
prize never will, never could have been obtained, even
had the fact been made as clear as day- light. Indeed, it
appears to have been a complete humbug from the be-
ginning.
I have never been in the habit of attending public ex-
hibitions of mesmerism in this country ; nor have I given
them any encouragement. The advantages attending
them have always appeared to me exceedingly problema-
tical, and many of the most intelligent magnetists are of
210 POSTSCRIPT.
opinion that they are calculated to do more harm than
good. 1 do not join, however, in the vulgar outcry
agamst all the individuals who get up these exhibitions,
nor venture to stigmatize them as rogues and vagabonds.
Many of them, I have no doubt, are perfectly honest
men, and are actuated by no illaudable motives. I know
nothing of Alexis except from public report, and from
some private communications addressed to me about the
time he exhibited in London. These last, however, pro-
ceeding from intelligent and perfectly competent indivi-
duals, better enabled to appreciate the matter, in conse-
quence of their intimate knowledge of the subject, were
very different from the narrative given by Dr Forbes in
his pamphlet ;
and I could easily account for the learned
Doctor's alleged failures. Of Mr Hewes I know abso-
lutely nothing ; but, of Dr Owen's performances, a more
favourable account, if my memory serves me, was given
some short time ago, in the Medical Times—& publica-
tion, by the bye, which has always honourably maintain-
ed its impartiality, appears to be exceedingly well con-
ducted, and, therefore, deserves general patronage.
For an impartial man, it appears to me that Dr For-
bes talks a great deal too much about " folly and
roguery" (p. 41), and " roguery and deceit" (p. 61),
which he affirms to be " so prevalent in mesmeric pro-
ceedings." Great as may be the authority of the learned
Doctor among his ownprofessional co«y>-ere*, I cannot con-
sent to take this upon his bare assertion. Such " damag-
ing " assertions ought to be not only made, but fully
proved, and substantiated by competent evidence ; and we
find no such proof in Dr Forbes's statements. Vague
accusations of this nature, indeed, are easily made, and
as easily retorted ; but, in most instances, they betray an
egregious want of liberality—they cannot advance an ar-
gument in the mind of any truly intelligent person—and,
in our opinion, they have a tendenc)' to weaken the cause
of the party who resorts to them. For our own part, we
see much more " folly, roguery, and deceit"—to say no-
thing of continual wanton misrepresentation —in the
POSTSCRIPT. 211
statements and conduct of the opponents, than in those
of the supporters of animal magnetism.
Dr Forbes, indeed, gives a rather curious reason why
" persons of undoubted ability and scientific attainments
should continue to attest the reality of lucid somnamhu-
lism' (p. 46). The cause of this, according to our au-
thor, " may probably be found in the tirdour of imagi-
nation—(what ! imagination again ! —why resuscitate the
dead ?)
—
enthiisiasm" &c. Thus we are required to be-
lieve that hundreds of sober, sensible, and, for the most
part, sceptical physicians, and men of scientific attain-
ments—such as La Place, Cuvier, Hufeland, Tre-
VI RANUS, &c. had allowed themselves to be carried away,
in this particular instance, by their " imagination" and
" enthusiasm," to attest absolute old " follies without
number"—follies which, it seems, " are the peculiarity of
no one class ;" and the detection of all this marvellous
credulity—^more marvellous, indeed, than any of the mar-
vels of animal magnetism—has been reserved for the su-
perior discrimination of \he far more intelligent, and sa-
gacious, and scientific, and unprejudiced Dr Forbes—
who is vastly too shrewd to be imposed ujwn by such
follies—in the year of our Lord 1845 I If La Place,
Cuvier, Jussieu, Georget, Treviranus, Hufe-
land, WiENHOLT, Sprengel, SiG. Were now alive
how submissively would they kiss tlie rod—make their
obeisance to their master, and blush for their folly I But
did it never occur to Dr Forbes that inveterate scepti-
cism, even in the case of otherwise intelligent and sensi-
ble but uninquiring and prejudiced men, may occasional-
ly, and upon certain points, carry some persons as far
astray on one side, as imagination and enthusiasm may
prove seductive on the other.
Dr Forbes talks a great deal about deceit ; but is it
not just possible that, in many instances, there may be
as much ignorance on the part of physicians, as of deceit
on the part of patients ; and are not the former a little
too apt to attribute to deceit some things which they can-
not clearly comprehend ? We admit, however, the pos-
212 POSTSCRIPT.
sihility of deception to a certain extent, in some of the
phenomena of animal magnetism, as in other things.
But there is truth as well as deception ; and these may be
distinguished from each other, provided the intelligent
and practised observer exerts all his attention, and "em-
ploys every possible precaution against mistake. But we
know that, in many cases, all this attention was exerted,
and all these precautions taken, so that all concert be-
tween individuals, accidental deception, and feigning were
completely precluded. An asphy.via, accompanied with
all the signs of apparent death known to the physician
—
an opisthotonos and empvosthotonos, such as described bv
Dr Klein—a most competent witness—by Dr Arndt,
and others, cannot be foretold and afterwards feigned.
As little can this be conceived to occur in the case of the
circular motion of the eyeball, and the enlarged pupil, in-
capable of being affected by the stimulus of light—the
striking alteration of the whole features—the wax-like
pliability of the limbs, as in catalepsy. All the experi-
ments conducted by Petetin, Renard, Arndt, &:c.
on the metastasis of the senses to the epigastrium, the
points of the fingers, &c. in a variety of ways, before dif-
ferent witnesses, on the incidental idea of the moment,
precluding all suspicion of previous knowledge or concert,
leave not the slightest trace of fraud or deception. When
Renard applied his watch, concealed in his hand, to the
epigastrium of his somnambulist, who named the time
indicated upon it to the very minute, there could not pos-
sibly be any deception. When the same physician sud-
denly conceived the idea of asking his patient how much
money he himself, another person in the room, and others
who had just entered it, had in their pockets, and the
latter named not only the precise sums, but even the dif-
ferent kinds of coin, we can presume neither accident
nor concert. When Hufeland accidentally touched
several parts of his somnambulist's body with the points of
his fingers, and she maintained that she saw the interior
of these parts illuminated, and, at the same time, gave
the anatomical description of them in her own way, can
POSTSCRIPT. 213
we believe that she had previously studied anatomy for this
very occasion ? Wlien Arndt's somnambulist asked
for paper, and, with her eyes not only firmly closed, but
actually kept closed by the magnetiser, wrote down an
air with the greatest readiness, and without a single line
encroaching upon another, must we not be convinced that
vision was exercised, upon this occasion, in an unusual
manner ? Similar instances have been recorded, by com-
petent observers, in such abundance, that the scepticism
which would deny the reality of such facts must proceed
from the grossest ignorance and incapacity, or from the
most wilful spii'it of obstinate perversion.
We are aware that the mere practical physician, espe-
cially when by disposition and habits he has become
averse from philosophical speculation, is peculiarly liable
to misapprehend the phenomena of animal magnetism.
When in the course of a long empirical practice, he has
once become habituated to a certain routine of appear-
ances and symptoms, he grows more and more indisposed
to admit the reality of any fact which transcends the
bounds of this limited sphere. For this reason, when he
happens to meet with any such phenomenon, and cannot
altogether deny or account for it, he immediately proceeds
to stretch it out on the procrustean bed of his own partial
theory, lops off what he conceives to be the excrescences,
and retains only as much as he imagines can be explained
upon his own contracted physiological views. Fraud and
deception are favourite modes of explaining all difficul-
ties ; but if such explanations are to be admitted in the
case of the most upright and competent observers, and
the most unambiguous facts, what becomes of all medi-
cal evidence ? and how can one physician lay claim to
superior credibility at the expense of the most honest and
mtelligent of his professional brethren ?
Of Miss Martineau's case I entertain a very dif-
ferent opinion from that of Dr Forbes. My reasons are
partly such as very naturally arise in the mind of a law-
yer, when he comes to weigh evidence. The case as
stated by Miss Martineau is, primafacie, a good one.
POSTSCRIPT.
The medical gentlemen were evidently prejudiced, and
they appear to have conceived that their professional re-
putation was compromised by the proceeding- in question.
Moreover, a pretty distinct charge has been brought
against them of tampering with, and concussing some of
the witnesses ;
and, so far as I have seen, this charge has
not been effectually rebutted. These circumstances,
therefore, tend to invalidate the testimony of the princi-
pal witnesses for the contradictors ; the objectors are
thrown out of court ; and the case stands upon its ori-
ginal foundation. Besides, there is a vast deal too much
of eager, busy-meddling, and sophistry in the conduct
and statements of these objectors.
In regard to the case of Miss Martineau herself,
we are told (p. 60) that Mr Greenhow "regards the
amelioration as begun two months before the employment
of Mesmerism ; the latter, however,"—and this is rather
an important statement—" he considers to have been con-
ducive, in some degree, towards relieving the conconu-
tunt symptoms of nervous distress ; as by a happy coin-
cidence, it was employed just as the time had arrived
when a new and powerful stimulus only was required
to enable the enthusiastic mind of the patient to shake
them off," &c.* The successful application of Mesme-
* Dr Forbes himself seems to go a good way in support of the
pretensions of Mesmerism as a curative process. He states it as his
opinion, that " some sorts of epilepsy, hysteria, neuralgia, anoma-
lous spasm, chronic dyspepsia, and the like diseases, seem to yield
most readily under its use. Sometimes, it may possibly influence
certain forms of nervous disease by counter-stimulus, inducing a
new and less hurtful condition," &c. This demonstrates consider-
able progress towards a recognition of the therapeutic efficacy of
Mesmerism. But the learned Doctor may yet see cause to extend
his views of this remedy. The very cautious and sceptical Sir J. D.
Brandis admits that magnetism may be found efficacious in cases
of defective sight and hearing, as also in cachexias of the vegetative
organism—such as scrofida,rachitis, &c. and, more especial!}-, in
those of the sensorial and intellectual systems. This eminent phy-
sician mentions the case of an elderly man who suffered from obsti-
nate gout, with stiffness and calculous concretions in the joints, who
was cured by the application of magnetism alone ;
and also that
of a young man affected with a severe paralysis of the leg aiul foot,
POSTSCRIPT. 215
rism in'this case, therefore, was, it would appear, " a happy
coincidence'^—(we can assure Dr Forbes that there
have been a very great number of such " hajipy coinci-
dences^'^—favoured, no doubt, by the enthusiasm of the
patient. Now, I have not the pleasure of being acquaint-
ed with Miss Martineau—I have never had the good
fortune to see or converse with that celebrated lady ; but
I have never heard till now that she was of a peculiarly
imaginative or enthusiastic temperament. Judging from
the character of her writings, I should rather have sup-
posed the reverse. But I may be mistaken upon this
point, and must speak with diffidence on the subject. But
Mr Greenhow speaks of Mesmerism as "a netv and
powerful stimulus and having thus a new and power-
ful stimulus to account for the change, what occasion is
there to resort to the ambiguous influence of imagination
and enthusiasm 9 According to the approved maxim,
Principia prceter necessitatem, nan sunt multiplicanda :
—We ought to assign no more causes than are necessary
to explain effects. The influence of imagination and en-
thusiasm may as well be combined with doctors' drugs as
with Mesmerism. According to the lady's own state*
ment, the whole case, as it appears to us, may be com-
pressed into a nut-shell. Miss Martineau was very
ill —had been in the same state for years—obtained no
effectual relief from medical treatment—suffered much
—called in the Mesmerist, and was speedily and com-
pletely cured both of her disease and of the Doctor. We
might write volumes upon this contentious subject, and
with loss of flesh and cold in the diseased limb, who was completely
cured in the same way, and in a short time.—See Brandis ; Ueber
psychische Heilniitlel unci Magmtismus.
A great variety of other instances of the successful application of
the same remedy in different n:orbid affections will be found in the
works of the medical magnetists- The precise limits of the operation
of this remedy cannot be said to have been yet ascertained. Some
continental physicians consider it applicable to all diseases which
are in themselves curable. At all events, it possesses this decided
advantage over almost all other remedies : It is attended with no
danger, and is followed by no unfavourable reaction.
216 POSTSCRIPT.
display a vast amount of medical erudition and ingenious
reasonings on all sides of the question ; but such appears
to us to be, in reality, the short and the long of this par-
ticular case. We do not mean to cast the slightest stig-
ma upon the medical attendants on the lady. We have
no doubt that they treated her skilfully, and quite se-
cundum artem. Neither are we prepared to assert that,
from anything we know to the contrary, there may not
have been a great deal of " folly," and " roguery," and
" deceit," in all this ;
but, if so, we own we are unable to
detect them, and, at all events, assuredly they are not
imputable to Mesmerism.
Dr Forbes considers Mesmerism as merely " a new
art" but he thinks that evidence is wanting to show
that it is a new science. Will Dr Forbes be good
enough to inform us whether he considers medicine itself
as any thing more than an aiH ? We know that he oc-
casionally speaks of it as a science—indeed, he has been
known to designate it as an Empire. But upon what
grounds has he formed this opinion ? And what stronger
pretensions has medicine than mesmerism to be elevated
to the rank of a science ? The former is a method of
cuinng diseases in one way : The latter is a method of
cm-ing diseases in another way. How should the one be
moi'e of a science than the other ? Some of the greatest
masters of medicine have not entertained such very ex-
alted ideas of their pursuit, as Dr Forbes appears to do.
Hippocrates, we believe, looked upon medicine merely
as an art. Lord Bacon would not admit it into the ranks
of science. Hoffmann laughed at its pretensions. Sy-
denham spoke of it as "the art of prating and telling
stories." Dr Heberden considered the improvement of
the practice of physic as chiefly the work of vagabond
quacks and empirics. Dr Buchan gave little credit to
physicians for the improvement of their art. Dr Bail-
lie, after he retired from business, declared that he had
no faith whatever in medicine as a science. Dr Hufe-
LAND looked upon all medicine as a mere matter of ex-
periment. Dr Abercrombie frankly admits the great
3
POSTSCRIPT. 217
uncertainty of medicine. Sir Gilbert Blane speaks
out still more openly and honestly. He observes that,
" in many cases, patients get well in spite of the means
employed : and sometimes, when the practitioner fancies
he has made a great cure, we may fairly assume the pa-
tient to have had a happy escape."—Such is the science
of medicine in the opinion of many of the most compe-
tent judges I And yet Dr Forbes refuses the appella-
tion of science to animal magnetism, which is built upon
an immense mass of observations gathered from the coin-
cident observations of mankind during thousands of years.
We would gently remind the learned Doctor that those
who dwell in houses of glass should not be the first to
commence throwing stones. For our own part, we have
always thought that medicine might derive great advan-
tage from an association with magnetism ; and that the
two arts or sciences (call them which you please) ought
to be conjoined in friendly union, instead of continuing
to stand in an attitude of determined hostility towards each
other.
Dr FoRBES alludes to an article written by him, some
years ago, in the British and Foreign Medical Revietv.
To speak candidly, we do not think that the article in
question, whether we regard its matter or its style, did
much credit to the author. The few redeeming senten-
ces in that paper are referred to in the pamphlet now
before us, as affording evidence of the author's impartia-
hty. With this exception, the article exhibited no traces
of that quality. At the period when it was written, in-
deed, medical men, in this country, were exceedingly
sore upon the subject of animal magnetism ; and having
as yet too little knowledge of the matter to enable them
to handle it reasonably, they betook themselves to hard
words and the most outrageous abuse, in order, if possi-
ble by such means, to exterminate the hideous and hated
monster
"Hew of his honde, his legge, his theye, his armijs
:
It vs the Turk/ though he be sleyne, none harm is."
The tone and temper, however, of our leaders of pub-
218 POSTSCRIPT.
lie opinion have now become a good deal more moderate ;
successful experiments have already diffused conviction
amongst a numerous circle, and, as we formerly expres-
sed ourselves elsewhere, we may now reasonably hope
that time, which tries all things, will, at length, present,
in their true and untarnished light,
" Whatever truths have been, by art or cliance,
Redeemed from error or from ignorance."
We have written the foregoing observations very has-
tily, and in drawing them to a conclusion, we shall only
add that we do not think the pamphlet of Dr Forbes is
much calculated either to advance or retard the progress
of animal magnetism. In our opinion, the learned Doc-
tor starts with an erroneous, or, at least, a very imperfect
view of the subject :
—he appears to have no conception
of what may be called its philosophy :
—he appears to be
totally ignorant of the high antiquity and universal ob-
servation of the essential facts ; as well as of the causes
which occasioned their subsequent misapprehension and
consequent neglect. He is evidently still prejudiced in
regard to the practice and phenomena of mesmerism, and
disposed to look upon its progress with jealousy. His
scepticism, indeed, is transparent throughout ; and the
knowing reader will probably be on his guard against it,
and, perhaps, occasionally smile at it. His admissions,
however, so far as they go, are valuable. They have
manifestly been forced from him ; or may have been
made, perhaps, with the view of demonstrating his impar-
tiality.
We should regret, however, that any of our observa-
tions gave offence to the learned Doctor ; for they have
been made without any such intention. Indeed, we would
rather prefer having Dr Forbes for our friend than our
enemy. But we have written now, as heretofore, with a
thorough conviction of the truth and importance of our
opinions, proceeding upon an investigation which has been
carried on during more than a quarter of a century—
a
conviction which has gained additional strength at every
POSTSCRIPT. 219
successive step of our progress. We continue to advo-
cate the cause of animal magnetism as a valuable auxili-
ary to the medical art, and as a means of promoting the
interests of physiology, psychology, and general philoso-
We had a good deal more to add ; but our little vo-
lume is at a still-stand—the Printer's Devil is importu-
nate —and our attention is called off to other matters.
We must, therefore, take leave of the subject for the
present, with the expression of our hearty good wishes
that Dr Forbes will soon make still more important ad-
vances in magnetic science ; and that, ere long, we may
meet and shake hands with him on the common territory
of animal magnetism.
THE END.
EDINBURGH !
PRINTED BY STARK AND COMPANY
OLD ASSEMBLY CLOSE.
