{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1846__braid___the_power_of_the_mind_over_the_body.pdf","mytitle":"The Power Of The Mind Over The Body","mylang":"de"}
THE
POWER OF THE MIND
OVER THE BODY:
AN EXPERIMENTAL INQUIRY INTO THIE NATURE AND CAUSE
OF THE PHENOMIENA ATTRIBUTED BY BARON
REICHENBACH AND OTHERS TO A
" NEW IMPONDERABLE."
BY JAMES BRAID, M.R.C.S.E, C.M.W.S., &c.
"TRUTH £3 WHAT IT BZcoMZa Us ALL To TRIVEZFoR."
LONDON:
JOHN CHURCHILL, PRINCESS STREET, SOHO;
ADAM & CHAS. BLACK, EDINBURGH,
MCCCXLTf.
390
BS)4P
POWER OF THE MIND OVER THE BODY.
FEw publications have lately issued from the press so well
calculated to excite general interest and inquiry, as Baron V 1
Reichenbach's "Researcheson Magnetism." The high reputation
of the author, as well as that of his learned translator and
annotator, Professor Gregory, who has furnished a condensed
view of the subject in an English dress, were all calculated to
produce an effect-the greater, because the subject discussed
was represented as bringing under our notice "a new imponder-
able," through which we should realize a clear and satisfactory
solution of many problems in the mental and physical consti-
tution of man, which had puzzled and perplexed alike the
savage and the sage from the earliest ages.
The vast interest which the above-named brochure has created,
is evinced by the extent to which it has been quoted, referred
to, and reviewed in our numerous periodicals. Nor is it devoid
of interest to observe the various awards of these different
authorities. Thus, one quotes at great length, and not only
with seriousness sets down the whole as fully established, but,
moreover, with much self-complacency exultsin the proofthereby
adduced of the correctness of all the most extreme views he
and other Mesmerists may have promulgated on certain points
THE POWER OF THE
of this keenly debated science ; whilst another writes a clever
burlesque article holding up the whole speculation as worthy
only of unsparing ridicule. Between these two extremes,
again, we have every grade of approval or scepticism.
On the first announcement of Dr. Gregory's abstract of
Baron Reichenbach's "Researches on Magnetism," I lost no time
in procuring a copy, which I perused with intense interest. I
had not proceeded far, however, when my experience with
hypnotic patients enabled me to perceive a source of fallacy, of
which the Baron must either have been ignorant, or which he
had entirely overlooked. From whatever cause this over-
sight had arisen, I felt confident that, however carefully
and perseveringly he had prosecuted his experiments, and
however well-calculated they had been for determining mere
physical facts, still no reliance could be placed upon the ac-
curacy of conclusions drawn from premises assumed as true,
where especial care had not been taken to guard against the
source of fallacy to which I refer-viz., the important influence
of the mental part of the process, which is in active operation
with patients during such experiments.* I therefore resolved
* Let it not be supposed that I intend by these observations to impute to
Baron Reichenbach any want of ordinary caution, or even the strictest
desire to guard against sources of fallacy of every sort. From what is
recorded at pp. 13, 50, and 81, of the "IAbstract," it is obvious that he
had taken great precautions, and such, indeed, as would have been quite
adequate :to effect such purpose under ordinary circumstances. More-
over, I most cordially admit that a better devised series of experiments,
or a more laborious and painstaking effort, for determining the question
on strictly inductive principles, I have never met with in any department
of science. Nor is small praise due to Professor Gregory, for the mas-
terly manner in which he has performed his part of the task; still, when
the extraordinary acuteness of the organs of special sense are taken into
account, to which reference is made at p. 2, of the " Abstract," where it
is admitted that "smell and taste become astonishingly delicate and
acute;" vision so irritable that patients "are able, in very dark rooms,
to distinguish not only the outlines, but also the colours of objects,
where healthy people cannot distinguish anything at all ;" and that
" patients hear and understand what is spoken three or four rooms off ;"
I say, when these facts are taken into consideration, coupled with the
MIND OVER THE BODY.
to repeat his experiments, paying the strictest attention to this
point ; and, as I had anticipated, the results were quite opposed
to the conclusions of Baron Reichenbach. It is with consider-
able diffidence that I venture to publish an opinion opposed to
such high authority ; but I shall briefly state the grounds of my
own opinion, and leave it to others to repeat the experiments,
and determine which opinion is nearer the truth. The obser-
vations which I have to submit may, moreover, prove sugges-
tive to others, and enable them not only to avoid sources of
fallacy with which I am familiar, but may also lead to the
detection of many which may have escaped my own observa-
tion.
The great aim of Baron Reichenbach's researches in this
excitable state of their minds, it will readily be admitted, that with all
the precautions resorted to by Baron Reichenbach, various ideas may
have been conveyed to his secluded patients, through the ordinary
channels, of which he had no suspicion. For example, slight sounds
In conducting the experiments, may have been overheard by the patients,
and indicated tothem changes in the arrangements, of which the operator
had no notion ; tones of voice, in proposing questions, may have had
an equally certain and unintended influence; and it is an undoubted fact
that, with such subjects, the slightest change in the concomitants
always suggests a change in the fundamental or previously existing idea.
Such being the case, I can imagine no satisfactory mode of determining
the subject with such patients as the Baron experimented with in the
stair-case, but having them placed beyond the range of hearing, even to
their quickened ears. The conducting wires should be securely fixed by
thumb-screws near their distal ends, so as to prevent any vibration
taking place beyond, when changing arrangements; which should be per-
formed with the least possible noise ; and a single sound of a bell should
be the only signal for an answer, unless the patient should wish volun-
tarily to express some intelligence as to impressions, which he ought to
be at liberty to do at any time. I would also suggest that there ought to
be no regular order in the experiments; and that changes should be
made without sounding the bell; and occasionally, that the bell should
be sounded repeatedly without any change having been made. On no
account should the experiments be conducted where the patients can
have ocular observation of the features, or gestures of the investigators,
even in apartments apparently dark. Such are the rigorous conditions,
I should consider requisite in the investigation of this subject, so as to
guard against all obvious sources of fallacy.
THE POWER OF THE
department of science has been to establish the existence of a
new imponderable, and to determine its qualities and powers in
reference to matter and other forces, vital and inanimate. It
unfortunately happens, however, that the only test of this al-
leged new force (with one solitary exception, and that as I
thought by no means a satisfactory one) is the human nerve;
and not only so, but it is further admitted that its existence can
only be demonstrated by certain impressions imparted to, or ex-
perienced by, a comparativelysmallnumberof highly sensitiveand
nervous subjects. But it is an undoubted fact that with many
individuals, and especially of the highly nervous, and imagina-
tive, and abstractive classes, a strong direction of inward con-
sciousnessto any part of the body, especially if attended with
the expectation or belief of something being about to happen, is
quite sufficient to change the physical action of the part, and to
producesuch impressionsfrom this cause alone, as BaronReichen-
bach attributesto his new force. Thus every variety of feeling
may be excited from an internal or mental cause-such as heat
or cold, pricking, creeping, tingling, spasmodic twitching of
muscles, catalepsy, a feeling of attraction or repulsion, sights of
every form or hue, odours, tastes, and sounds, in endless variety,
and so on, according as accident or intention may have sug-
gested. Moreover, the oftener such impressions have been ex-
cited, the more readily may they be reproduced, under similar
circumstances, through the laws of association and habit. Such
being the fact, it must consequently be obvious to every intelli-
gent and unprejudiced person, that no implicit reliance can be
placed on the human nerve, as a test of this new power in pro-
ducing effects from externalimpressions or influences, when pre-
cisely the same phenomena may arise from an internalor mental
influence, when no external agency whatever is in operation.
In order to guard against this source of fallacy, therefore, I
considered it would be the best mode to throw patients into the
nervous sleep, and then operate on such of them as I knew had
no use of their eyes during the sleep (for some patients have),
and to take accurate notice of the results when a magnet
capable of lifting fourteen pounds was drawn over the hand and
RIND OVER THE BODY.
other parts of the body without contact, after the manner des-
cribed as performed by Baron Reichenbach in his experiments.
I experimented accordingly, and the results were, that in no
instance was there the slightest effect manifested, unless when
the magnet was brought so near as to enable the patient to feel
the abstraction of heat, (producing a sensation of cold), when a
feeling of discomfort was manifested, with a disposition to move
the hand, or head, or face, as the case might be, from the offen-
ding cause. This indication was precisely the same when the
armature was attached, as when the magnet was open; and in
both cases, if I suffered the magnet to touchthe patient, instantly
the part was hurriedly withdrawn, as I have always seen mani-
fested during the primary stage of hypnotism, when the patients
were touched with any cold object. Now, inasmuch as patients
in this condition, generally, if not always, manifest their percep-
tions of external impressions by the most natural movements,
unless the natural law has been subverted by some preconceived
notion or suggested idea to the contrary, and as I have operated
with similar results upon a considerable number of patients, we
have thus satisfactory proof that there was no real attractive
power of a magnetic or other nature, tending to draw the pa-
tient, or any of his members, so as to cause an adhesion between
his body and the magnet, as between the latter and iron, as
Baron Reichenbach had alleged. I conclude, therefore, that
the phenomena of apparent attraction manifested in his cases
were due entirely to a mental influence; and I shall presently
prove that this is quite adequate to the production of such
effects.
But I must now give an extract, so as to state Baron Recichen-
bach's views, as expressed in Professor Gregory's abstract.
"Magnets of 101bs. supporting power, hcen
drawn along the
body, without contact, produce certain sensations in a certain
proportion of human beings. Occasionally, out of twenty, three,
or four sensitive individuals are found ; and in one case, out of
twenty-two females examined by the author, eighteen were
found sensitive.
THE POWER OP TIIE
"The sensation is rather unpleasant than agreeable, and is
like an aura: in some cases warm, in others cool; or it may be
a pricking, or the sensation of the creeping of insects on the
skin; sometimes headache comes on rapidly. These effects
occur when the patient does not see the magnet, nor know
what is doing ; they occur both in males and females, though
more frequently in females ; they are sometimes seen in strong,
healthy people, but oftener in those whose health, though good,
is not so vigorous, and in what are called nervous persons.
Children are frequently found to be sensitive. Persons affected
with spasmodic diseases, those who suffer from epilepsy, cata-
lepsy, chorea, paralysis, and hysteria, are particularly sensitive.
Lunatics and somnambulists are uniformly sensitive. The mag-
net is consequently an agent capable of affecting the living body.
The object of the author is to solve some of the disputed ques-
tions, and to bring a number of phenomena under fixed physical
laws.
" Healthy sensitive subjects observe nothing farther than the
sensations above noticed, and experience no inconvenience from
the approach of magnets ;but the diseased sensitive subjects ex-
perience different sensations, often disagreeable, and occasionally
giving rise to fainting, to attacks of catalepsy, and to spasms so
violent that they might possibly endanger life. In such cases,
which generally include somnambulists, there occurs an extra-
ordinary acuteness of the senses; smell and taste, for example,
become astonishingly delicate and acute; many kinds of food
become intolerable, and the perfumes most agreeable at other
times become offensive. The patients hear and understand
what is spoken three or four rooms off, and their vision is often
so irritable, that, on the one hand, they cannot endure the sun's
light, or that of a fire ; while, on the other, they are able, in
very dark rooms, to distinguish, not only the outlines, but also
the colours of objects, where healthy people cannot distinguish
anything at all. Up to this point, however strange the pheno-
mena, there is nothing which may not be easily conceived, since
animals and men differ very much in the acuteness of the senses,
as is daily experienced."
MIND OVER THE BODY.
Having met with a patient, Mdlle. Nowotny, who was subject
to catalepsy, who possessed such a high degree of acuteness of
the senses, that "she could not endure the daylight, and in a
dark night perceived her room as well lighted as it appeared to
others in the twilight, so that she could quite well distinguish
colours;" from a consideration of this circumstance, and re-
membering that the aurora borealis appears to be a phenomenon
connected with terrestrial magnetism, or electro-magnetism, it
occured to the Baron "that possibly a patient of such acuteness
of vision might see some luminous i)hcnomenon about the
magnet."
"The first experiment was performed by the patient's father;"
no doubt by the suggestion of the Baron, and with the idea
conveyed to him that some luminous appearance was likely to
be discovered by the patient. It would be interesting to know
whether the patient had not also been led, by some means, to
understand the object of the inquiry, as such expectation,
according to my own experience with such subjects, was quite
adequate to the production of the expected phenomenon ; and,
moreover, once realized, ib would be liable to recur ever after,
under the same combinationof circumstances.
"In profound darkness, a horse-shoe magnet of nine elements,
capable of carrying 801bs., was presented to the patient, the
armature being removed; and she saw a distinct and continued
luminous appearance, which uniformly disappeared, when tie
armature was applied.
"The second experiment was made on her recovery from a
cataleptic attack, when the excitability of her senses was greatest.
She saw two luminous objects, one at each pole, (the magnet
was open,) which disappeared on joining the poles, and re-
appeared on removing the armature. At the moment of break-
ing contact, the light was somewhat stronger. The appearance
was the same at both poles, without any apparent tendency to
unite. Next to the metal, she described a luminous vapour,
surrounded by rays, which rays were in constant shooting mo-
tion, lengthening and shortening themselves incessantly, and
presenting, as she said, a singularly beautiful appearance.
THE POWER OF THE
There was no resemblance to an ordinary fire; the colour of
the light was pure white, sometimes mixed with iridescent
colours."
The next patient "was far more sensitive to the magnet than
the former. She declared that, at the moment the armature
was withdrawn, she had seen fire rise from the magnet, the
height of a small hand, white, but mixed with red and blue."
Mdlle. Maix.-" As often as the armature was removed from
a large magnet, in the dark, she instantly saw the luminous
appearance above the poles, about a hand-breadth in height.
But when affected with spasms, she was more sensitive, and the
phenomenon increased in her eyes amazingly. She not only
now saw the magnetic light at the poles much larger than be-
fore, but she also perceived currents of light proceeding from
the whole external surface of the magnet, weaker than at the
poles, but leaving in her eyes a dazzling impression, which did
not for a long time disappear."
"Mdlle. Barbara Reichel saw the magnetic light not only in
the dark, but also in such a twilight as permitted the author to
distinguish objects, and to arrange and alter the experiments.
The more intense the darkness, the brighter and larger she saw
the flaming emanations; the more sharp and defined their out-
line, and the more distinct the play of colours." In the dark
she saw the magnet giving out light, when shut, as well as when
open, with this difference, that in the former case there were no
points where the light appeared concentrated; but all the edges,
joinings, and corners of the magnet gave out short flame-like
lights, unifonn in size, and in a constant undulatory motion.
From the large magnet these were about as long as the thick-
ness of a little finger; when the armature was removed, however,
the light wasconcentrated at the two poles, fromwhich the flames
arose to about the height of eight inches and a half, rather
broader than the bar, "At each depression, where two plates of
the magnet were laid together, there appeared smaller flames
ending in point-like sparks on the edges and corner. These
small flames appeared blue, the chief light was white below,
yellow higher up, then red and green at top. It was not tmo-
10
MIND OVER TUE BODY.
tionless, but flickered and undulated, or contracted by starts
continually, with an appearance as of rays shooting forth.
There was no appearance of mutual attraction, or mutual ten-
dency towards each other of the flames, or from one pole to the
other; and as in the case of Mdlle. Nowotny both poles pre-
sented the same appearance."
Mdlle. Reichel tested with a straight magnet. "At the pole
pointing to the north, or negative end of the magnet, the flame
was larger than at the opposite end; it was sometimes undula-
ting, sometimes starting, and shot out rays as in the horse-shoe
magnet; it was red below, blue in the middle, green at top."
In order to enable the reader to form a correct estimate of
what is represented in these several narratives, I have quoted
the more important parts verbatim; and by comparing the
results recorded by the different patients, no one can fail to be
struck with the remarkable discrepancy in their description of
what has been alleged as a physical fact. All expected, as I
presume, to see light, and they saw light or flames accordingly;
but let us remark another result : Mdlle. Nowotny, in her most
sensitive state, saw luminous vapour surrounded by rays which
were in a constant shooting motion. " The colour of the light
was nearly pure white,sometimes mixed with iridescent colours."
The appearance was the same at both poles; the length of the
flames, about one-half or three-fourths ofan inch. Mdlle. Maix,
in her ordinary state, saw flames (from the same magnet I pre-
sume,) a hand breadth in height, and when in the more sensitive
state they were much larger; and she now saw currents of flame
proceeding from the whole external surface of the magnet, but
weaker than at the poles.
Mdlle. B. Reichel saw the magnet giving out light, not only
when open, but also when closed. When open, the flames from
the poles were about eight inches high, those at the joining of
the plates of the magnet about a finger's breadth in length.
"These smallflames appeared blue, the chief light was white
below, yellow higherup, then red,and green at top." As with the
the others, both poles seemed to have given out simnilarappear-
ances of light and flame. This same patient being experimented
11
THE POWER OF THE
on with the above straight bar magnet, about a foot and a half
long, we are told that, " at the polepointing to north, or negative
end of the magnet, the flame was larger than at the opposite
end;" and we are further told that, " it was red below, blue in
the middle, and green at the top." When we advance to the
flames seen to be given out by crystals, from the human hand,
and other forms of matter, we have equally discordant descrip-
tions as to colour and size of the flames as seen by different
sensitive subjects. Now, to my mind, these discordant state-
ments, as to the colour of the flames, are quite fatal to the notion
of such representations proving a physical fact; and in an
especial manner is that remark applicable to the statement of
Mdlle, Reichel, who not only saw the colour different which was
emanating from a straightbar magnet firom that of the horse-
shoe variety, but also described the size oft the flame as larger
from the north pole of the straight bar magnet than from the
other end, whereas it was always seen by her, as well as by
others, to be the same size at both poles of a horse-shoe magnet.
If there be a physical reality in these alleged flames and colours,
there ought to be no discrepancies of this sort; and the fact of
such discordant statements having been made will tend to pre-
pare the mind of the reader for the solution of the problem
which I have now to submit.
In prosecuting the inquiry, Baron Reichenbach considered he
had not only proved the existence of this new force, which pro-
duced all the physical effects enumerated, with streams of light
from the poles, and the power of attracting the human body,
and adhering to it, as steel to the magnet-I say he alleged that
he had established such a force, not only as residing in the
magnet, in addition to the ordinary magnetic force, but more-
over, that it was found equally active in crystals, where it existed
quite pure and distinct from ordinary magnetism. He also now
ascertained that his subjects could discover "that from the fin-
ger points of healthy men, fiery bundles of light streamed forth,
exactly as from the poles of magnets and of crystals visible to
the sensitive." He alleges, moreover, that he had proved that
where it was passive, it could be excited into activity by the
12
MIND OVER THE HODY.
sun's rays, by the moon's rays, by starlight, by heat, by chemical
or mechanical action, and finally, that this luminous or phos-
phorescent appearance, and certain other peculiar properties,
might be discovered bythe highly sensitive in almost every place,
and from nearly every object or form of matter, solid or fluid,
animate or inanimate. Also, that it could be conducted through
all other matter, and that all substances, not naturally actively
charged with it, could be so temporarily, by proximity and con-
tact of those which were actively charged.
I have already stated the wonderful power of the human mind,
when inward consciousness is strongly directed to any part of a
sensitive person, in changing physical action, and leading the
subject to attribute to an external cause what may have arisen
entirely from an internal or mental cause. It has also been
stated that, when I resorted to a mode of operating which ren-
dered the subjects more highly sensitive to external influences,
and at the sametime was calculated toobviate any source offallacy,
as to mental emotion or expectation being directed to the part
from their seeing what was being done, the results were in direct
opposition to what was represented as having been realized by
the Baron. I have particularly adverted to this in respect to the
alleged attraction of the magnet for the human frame; I have
proved it to be equally so in respect to the human hand, and
crystals, &c., where all sources offallacy are guardedagainst.
In my experience, moreover, with such cases, no light or flames
have been perceived by patients either from the poles of a mag-
net, crystals, the points of the fingers, or other substance, unless
the patients have been previously penetrated with soine idea of
the sort, or have been plied with such questions as were
calculated to excite notions, when various answers were given
accordingly, and when in the sleep, there appeared an equal
aptitude to see something when neithermagnetnorfingers were in
the directionindicated, as when they were-a clear proof that the
impressions were entirely imaginary, or mental in their origin.
I shall now proceed to detail the results of experiments with
patients when wide awake, and when they had an opportunity
of seeing what was being done, and expected something to
13
THE POWER OF THE
happen; and also when the same patients saw nothing of what
was doing, but supposed I was operating, and consequently
expected something to occur.
With nearly all the patients I have tried, many of whom had
never been hypnotised or mesmerised, when drawing the magnet
or other object slowly from the wrist to the points of the fingers,
various effects were realized, such as a change of temperature,
tingling, creeping, pricking, spasmodic twitching, catalepsy of
the fingers, or arm, or both; and reversing the motion was
generally followed by a change of symptoms, from the altered
current of ideas thereby suggested. Moreover, if any idea of
what might be expected existed in the mind previously, or was
suggested orally, during the process, it was generally very
speedily realized. The above patients being now requested to
look aside, or a screen having been interposed, so as to prevent
their seeing what was being done, and they were requested to
describe their sensations during the repetition of the processes,
similar phenomena were stated to be realized, even when there
was nothing whatever done, beyond watching them, and noting
their responses. They believed the processes were being re-
peated, and had their minds directed to the part, and thus the
physical action was excited, so as actually to lead them to believe
and describe their feelings as arising from external impressions.
The above fact was most remarkably evinced in a young
gentleman, twenty-one years of age. I first operated in this
manner on his right hand, by drawing a powerful horse-shoe
magnet over the hand, without contact, whilst the armature
was attached. He immediately observed a sensation of cold
followthe course ofthe magnet. I reversedthe passes, andhe feltit
lesscold,buthe felt no attraction between his hand andthe magnet.
I then removed the cross-bar, and tried the effect withboth poles
alternately, but still there was no change in the effect, and
decidedly no proof of attraction between his hand and the
magnet. In the afternoon of the same day I desired him to
look aside and hold his hat between his eyes and his hand, and
observe the effects when I operated on him, whilst he could not
see my proceedings. He very soon described a recurrence of
14
MIND OVER THE BODY.
the same sort of sensations as those he felt in the morning, but
they speedily became more intense and extended up the arm,
producing rigidity of the member. In the course of two minutes
this feeling attacked the other arm, and to some extent the whole
body, and he was, moreover, seized with a fit of involuntary
laughter, like that of hysteria, which continued for several
minutes-in fact, until I put an end to the experiment. His
first remark was, " Now this experiment clearly proves that
there must be some intimate connection between mineral mag-
netism and Mesmerism, for I was most strangely affected, and
could not possibly resist laughing during the extraordinary sen-
sations with which my whole body was seized, as you drew the
magnet over my hand and arm." I replied that I drew a very
difterent conclusion from the experiments, as I had never used
the magnet atall, nor held it,nor anything else, near to him ; and
that the whole proved the truth of my position as to the extraor-
dinary power of the mind over the body, and how mental
impressions could change physical action.
I operated on two other gentlemen the same day, Nwho were
much older, and with decidedly marked effects in both, though
less so than in the last case. The experiment being tried with
a lady of fifty-six years of age, by drawing a gold pencil-case
slowly from the wrist to the finger ends, a creeping, twitching,
sensation was felt, which increased until it became very un-
pleasant, and excited a drawing, crampy feeling in the fingers
of that hand. On causing her to look aside, watch, and describe
her feelings during my subsequent operations, the results were
similar, and that whilst I had done nothing; and the whole,
therefore, was attributable to the power of the mind in changing
the physical action.
Another interesting case of a married lady, I experimented
with in presence of her husband, as follows. I requested her to
place her hand on the table, with the palm upwards, so situated
as to enable her to observe the process I was about to resort to.
I had 'previously remarked, that by my drawing something
slowly over the hand, without contact, whilst the patient con-
centrated her attention on the process, that she would experi-
15
THE POWER OF THE
ence some peculiar sensations in consequence. I took a pair of
her scissors, and drew the bowl of the handle, slowly from the
wrist downwards. I had only done so a few times, when she
felt a creeping, chilly sensation, which was immediately fol-
lowed by a spasmodic twitching of themuscles, so as to toss the
hand from the table, as the members of a prepared fiog are agi-
tated when galvanised. I next desired her to place her other
hand on the table, in like manner, but placed so, that by turning
her head in the opposite direction, she might not see what was
being done, and to watch her sensations in that hand, and tell
us the result. In about the same length of time, similar phe-
nomena were manifested, as with the other hand, although in
this instance I had done nothing whatever, and was not near her
hand. I now desired her to watch what happened to her hand,
when I predicated that she would feel it become cold, and the
result was as predicted, and vice versa, predicating that she
would feel it become intensely hot, such was realized. When
I desired her to think of the tip of her nose, the predicated
result either of heat or cold, was speedily realized in that part.
Another lady, twenty-eight years of age, being operated on
in the same manner, whilst looking at my proceedings, in the
course of half-a-minute, described the sensation as that of the
blood rushing into the fingers; and when the motion of my
pencil-case was from below, upwards, the sensation was that of
the current of blood being reversed, but less rapid in its motion.
On resuming the downward direction, the original feeling
recurred, still more powerfully than at first. This lady being
requested now to look aside, whilst I operated, realized similar
sensations, and that whilst I was doing nothing.
The husband of this lady, twenty-eight and a half years o'f
age, came into the room, shortly after the above experiment
was finished. She was very desirous of my trying the effect
upon him, as he was in perfect health. I requested him to ex-
tend his right arm laterally, and let it rest on a chair with the
palm upwards, to turn his head in the opposite direction, so that
he might not see what I was doing, and to concentrate his
attention on the feelings which might arise, during my process.
16
MIND OVER THE BODY.
In about half-a-minute he felt an aura like a breath of air pass-
ing along the hand; in a little after, a slight pricking, and pre-
sently a feeling passed along the arm, as far as the elbow, which
he described as similar to that of being slightly electrified. All
this, while I had been doingnothing, beyond watching what might
be realized. I then desired him to tell me what he felt Now,-
speaking in such a tone of voice, as was calculated to lead him
to believe I was operating in some different manner. The result
was that the former sensations ceased; but, when I requested
him once more, to tell me what he felt now, the former sensations
recurred. I then whispered to his wife, but in a tone sufficiently
loud to be overheard by him, observe now, and you will find
his fingers begin to draw, and his hand will become clenched,-
see how the little finger begins to move, and such was the case;
see the next one also going in like manner, and such effects
followed; and finally, the entire hand closed firmly, with a very
unpleasant drawing motion of the whole flexor-muscles of the
fore-arm. I did nothing whatever to this patient until the fin-
gers were nearly closed, when I touched the palm of his hand
with the point of my finger, which caused it to close more
rapidly and firmly. After it had remained so for a short time,
I blew upon the hand, which dissipated the previously existing
mental impression, and instantly the hand became relaxed.
The high respectability and intelligence of this gentleman ren-
dered his testimony very valuable; and especially so, when he
was not only wide awake, but had never been either mesmerised,
hypnotised, or so tested before.
Another gentleman, twenty-one years of age, was tried by
drawing a gold pencil-case along the palm of the hand, without
contact. At the fourth traction, he looking at the part and my
process, he described a cold aura following the course of the
pencil, then a pricking, and after a few more courses, he des-
cribed it as rather a warm pricking sensation; such as that
experienced from the sun's rays concentrated on the skin by a
lens. By reversing the passes, from the points of the fingers
towards the wrist, the aura was changed, and he described the
sensation as that of forcing back the blood in the veins, when
17
THE POWE OF THE
they are much distended. I then proposed to experiment on
his other hand, whilst his head was held aside, when similar
sensations were realized, although on this occasion I had done
nothing,-the whole results having arisen from his own concen-
tration of inward consciousness, changing the physical action of
the part, and recalling his former association of ideas in refer-
ence to the other hand. I thereupon explained to him the law,
(for he was a very acute young gentleman,) which seemed to
obtain in the production of such phenomena, and desired him
to satisfy himself of the fact, by concentrating his attention on
the upper part of his foot, and watching the result. Here, also,
he experienced similar sensations to arise, even whilst he was
aware that I was doing nothing; but the effects took place less
rapidly than was the case in the former experiments with his
hands. It is also worthy of remark, that this gentleman ex-
perienced very severe headache to result from these experi-
ments, which, however, I was enabled very speedily to remove
by another process.
A lady thirty years of age was requested to hold out her right
hand over the arm of an easy chair, whilst she turned her head
to the left, to prevent her from seeing what I was doing, and to
watch and describe to me the feelings she experienced in the
hand during my process, which was to be performed without
contact. She very soon felt a pricking in the point of the third
finger, which increased in intensity, and at length extended up
the arm. I then asked her how her thumb felt, and presently
the same feeling was transferred to it; and when asked to attend
to the middle of the forearm,in like manner the feeling was pre-
sently perceived there. All the time I had been doing nothing;
the whole was the result of her own mind acting on her hand
and arm. I now took the large magnet, and allowed her to
watch me drawing it slowly over the hand, when the feeling was
much as before, only that she felt the cold from the steel when
brought very near to the skin. It was precisely the same when
closed as when opened, and the same sensations occurred when
the north pole alone was approximated, or the south alone, or
both together. She experienced no sense of attraction between
18
MIND OVER THE BODY.
her hand and the magnet from either pole, nor from both com-
bined. I now requested this lady to keep a steady gaze upon
the poles of the large horse-shoe magnet, and tell me if she saw
anything, (the room was not darkened nor was the light strong)
but nothing was visible. I then told her to look steadily, and
she would see flame or fire come out of the poles. In a little
after this announcement she started, and said, " Now I see it,
it is red; how strange my eyes feel," and instantly she passed
into the hypnotic state. This lady had been repeatedly hypno-
tised. I now took the opportunity of testing her as to the
alleged power of the magnet to attract her hand when asleep,
but, as in the other cases, the results were quite the contrary-
the cold of the magnet (and of either pole alike) caused her to
withdraw her hand the moment it touched her. Inow requested
her to tell me what she saw (she being still in the sleep.) She
said she still saw the red light. I desired her to put her finger
to the place where she saw it. This she declined to do, being
afraid that it would burn her. I thereupon assured her that it
would not burn her, upon which she pointed to the same place
where the magnet was held before she went into the sleep, instead
of to where it was now held, which was near to her face, but
towards the opposite side of the chair. This lady does not see
from under her closed eyelids when hypnotised, as some patients
do; and the evidence her testimony affords in support of my
opinion upon this subject is very conclusive, as she is a lady
of very superior mental attainments, and one whose testimony
merits unlimited confidence.
I beg to call particular atteticular
attention to the fact, that in this latter
case, as with the fifth of the vigilant cases narrated, the first
experiments were tried without any magnet or other object
being pointed at or drawn over them, and still the mental
influence was quite sufficient to change the physical action, and
produce decided and characteristic effects, where there conli
be no influence from without, of the nature alleged by Baron
Reichenbach and the mesmerists.
A lady, upwards of fifty-six years of age, in perfect health,
and wide awake, having been taken into a dark closet, and
19
THE POWER OF THE
desired to look at the poles of the powerful horse-shoe magnet
of nine elements, and describe what she saw, declared, after
looking a considerable time, that she saw nothing. However,
after I told her to look attentively, and she would see fire come
out of it, she speedily saw sparks, and presently it seemed to
her to burst forth, as she had witnessed an artificial representa-
tion of the volcano of Mount Vesuvius at some public gardens.
Without her knowledge, I closed down the lid of the trunk
which contained the magnet, but still the same appearanceswere
described as visible. By putting leading questions, and asking
her to describe what she saw from another part of the closet,
(where there was nothing but bare walls) she went on describing
various shades of most brilliant coruscations and flame, accord-
ing to the leading questions I had put for the purpose of
changing the fundamental ideas. On repeating the experiments,
similar results were repeatedly realized by this patient. On
taking this lady into the said closet after the magnet had been
removed to another part of the house, she still perceived the
same visible appearances of light and flame when there was
nothing but the bare walls to produce them; and, two weeks
after the magnet was removed, when she went into the closet
by herself, the mere association of ideas was sufficient to cause
her to realize a visible representation of the same light and flames.
Indeed such had been the case with her on entering the closet
ever since the few first times she saw the light and flames. In
like manner, when she was made to touch the poles of the
magnet when wide awake, no manifestations of attraction took
place between her hand and the magnet, but the moment the
idea was suggested that she would be held fast by its powerful
attraction, so that she would be utterly unable to separate her
hands from it, such result was realized; and, on separating it,
by the suggestion of a new idea, and causing her to touch the
other pole in like manner, predicating that it would exert no
attractive power for the fingers or hand, such negative effects
were at once manifested. I know this lady was incapable of
trying to deceive myself, or others present; but she was self-
deceived and spell-bound by the predominance ofa pre-conceived
20
MIND OVER THE BODY.
idea, and was not less surprised at the varying powers of the
instrument than others who witnessed the results.
In like manner several other patients whom I took into the
dark closet could see nothing, until told to look steadily at a
certain point and they would see flame and light of varying
colours, proceeding from it, which predictions were speedily
realized, whilst they were wide awake, and with nothing but
bare walls towards which to direct their eyes. Not only
so, but I have, moreover ascertained, that, even in broad day-
light, a strong mental impression is adequate to produce such
delusions with certain individuals of a highly imaginative and
concentrative turn of mind. This fact was beautifully illus-
trated in the case of a gentleman, twenty-four years of age, who
had suffered severely from epilepsy, for eleven years, (notwith-
standing the persevering use of medicine of various sorts, pre-
scribed by many of the most able members of the profession,
but who is recovering very satisfactorily under the hypnotic
treatment,) was taken into the above closet and tested as the
latter. He likewise saw nothing till I suggested that lie would
see flame and light, after which predication he very speedily
saw it accordingly, not merely where the magnet was, but also
from other parts of the apartment. Now, this patient, and the
last two referred to, when taken into the closet afterthe magnet
had been a long time removed to a distant part of the house,
still saw the flames, and changing colours as before-a clear
proof that the whole was a mental delusion arising from an ex-
cited imagination, on the point under consideration, changing
physical action. The same gentleman being made to look at
the point of a piece of brass wire, could be made to imagine
that he saw any sort of flame or colour indicated issuing from
it, even inbroad daylight; and when made to touch it with a
finger, and then told he would find it impossible to draw it
away, the mere idea was sufficient to paralyze his volition, the
whole muscles became rigid, and lie looked with astonishment
at his condition ; but the moment I said now theattraction is
gone, and his hand will separate, such results followed. More-
over, now that his finger was a little withdrawn, by simply
21
TIHE POWER OF THE
saying confidently that it would now be found that he could not
touch the wire, as it would repel him, the idea once more para-
lyzed his volition, and he again manifested his incapacity, and
inspite of his anxious, but misdirected efforts, there he remained
fixed as a statue. On hinting that now the influence was sus-
pended, the hand and arm became limber, when I told another
person watching the experiment that now he would find the
hand irresistibly drawn to the wire ; and such result was pre-
sently manifested. No one had touched this wire for hours;
it was merely a piece of bent brass wire which was lying loosely
and projecting from the chimney-piece. This power seems to
have been understood by Virgil, when he said-
"'
Possunt, qula posse videntur."
In like manner having intimated to a friend the remarkable
vividness of this patient's imagination, implicit belief, and
credulity, which rendered him liable to believe that he had an
ocular perception of an external change, according to whatever
idea might be suggested to him by others, I requested this
friend, when we went into the room, to look at the end of the
above wire at the same time withthe patient, and that the former
should pretend to me, when asked what coloured flame she saw
emanating from it, to give a new idea at each inquiry. By this
mode the patient caught the ideas suggested, having no notion
that he was deluded in the way indicated. He left with the full
conviction of the physical reality of all
he had seen and des-
cribed; and he has manifested like phenomena as frequently
as he has been so tested.
I have detailed the above case so much at length, because it
is a very good type of a class of patients to be met with, who
readily become the dupes of suggestions, in the manner pre-
sently to be explained, without the least desire to deceive others,
or the most distant idea that they are themselves deceived. I
have proved all I have advanced by so many concurrent ex-
amnples, with individuals of the utmost probity and competence
to describe their feelings, that there can be no doubt of the facts.
But not only may patients, in the waking state, be made to
believe that they see various forms, and colours, and perceive
22
UIND OVER TIIE BODY.
variable sensible impressions and irresistible powers, drawinig,
repelling, or paralyzing them, from a strong mental impression
changing the physical action of the organ or part usually en-
gaged in the normal manifestation ofsuch fmnction ; but I have,
moreover, ascertained that the same influence may be realized
in respect to sound, smell, taste, heat, and cold,-so that sug-
gested ideas, and concentration of inward consciousness are
competent, with some individuals, to excite ideas, not merely of
hearing vague sounds, but particular tunes, the smell of parti-
cular odours, and to discriminate particular tastes, and feel heat
or cold. All this I have proved may be realized with some
excitable subjects when they were wide awake ;and when there
was neither actual sound, nor odour, nor taste, in the situations
and substances to which they were referred ; and by merely
asking what tune, what colour, what animal, or what substance,
they perceived now,Iclearly proved that ideas may be thus excited
in the minds of subjects totally different from those exist;ng in
my own, at the time. The subjects with whom I made these
experiments were worthy of implicit credit as to their integrity
in describing their feelings and belief; and the whole results,
therefore, are attributable to the remarkable reciprocal actions
of the mind and body on each other, to which I have so often
referred.' Indeed, one of the most beautiful examples I have
had of these " vigilant phenomena," in respect to all the senses,
occurred in the case of a gentleman of high classical and mathe-
matical attainments, as well as in general sciclce. HIe had seen
* For remarkable examples of the extent, to which mental impression
is capable of changing physical action, I beg to refer to my papers in the
Medical Times for December, 1844, and January and February, 1845. It
is particularly gratifying to be able to refer in confirmation of most of
the views I advocate, to Dr. Holland's " Medical Notes and Reflections"-
one of the most masterly works I ever read, which I had the pleasure of
perusing for the first time in June, 1845.
Farazi, the Persian necromancer's answer to Firuz Shah, is also quite
corroborative of my views. When asked how it was possible for him to
bring a person immediately to that spot, who was known to be at the
time 800or 900 miles distant, he replied that " HE COULD
NOT BRING nER
IN PERSON, BUT COULD PRODUCE SUCH A LIKENESS OF HER THAT HE COULD
SWEAR TO HER BEING HIS owN wir.'-Late Right Hon. Sir Gor
Ouseley's" Biographical Notices of Persian roets."
23
TIIr POV)IERI OF TnE
no experiments of the sort before I tested himself. On finishing
my round of experiments with him, he begged of me to explain
the rationaleof what had occurred. I requested him to read
-whatI had written on the subject, which he perused with great
attention; after which he expressed himself perfectly satisfied
that I had hit upon the true solution ofthe problem. Indeed, he
was so kind as to authorize me to refer any one to him for a
confirmation of the rationaleI had given of the phenomena, as
experienced by him in his own person when wide awake, and in
the bright light of day.
It is stated by Baron Reichenbach that the sensitive can uni-
formly detect water which has had the magnetic current passed
through it, by having an open magnet brought over and in
contact with the opposite sides of the glass in which the water
is contained. I have tried this experiment in such a manner as
was calculated to guard against various sources of fallacy which
I knew were likely to mislead the unwary; such as thevaried tone
of voice or look of the experimentalist, when investigating the
subject, and trying to elicit from the patient his candid opinion
as to the qualities of each glass of water. The results were,
that none of the patients tried could detect either by smell,
taste, or any other sensible eflect, any difference between the
magnetised and the unmagnetised water. At each trial I made
use of four similar glasses, filled to the same height, two of
which, by the contact to the glass of a powerful magnet for a
minute or two, were magnetised, the other two not magnetised.
The patients were all first tested in this way when awake, and
then when asleep. Magnetising by passes, or breathing on the
water, I should not consider a fair experiment, and for this
reason, that the halitusof the breath, or from the skin, might
very readily be detected by a highly sensitive patient, by smell,
and probablyalso by taste. I have met with a patient who could
very readily detect water so treated from that which had not,
and I ascertained that she did so by smell.
The extreme acuteness of the organs of special sense, under
certain circumstances, is well illustrated in certain states of
disease, and by what is realized in the feats of some savage tribes.
24
MIND OVER THE BODY.
They appear quite as exalted as anything I have met with, in
the hypnotic or mesmeric state; and which has been sufficient
to enable me to account, on naturalprinciples, for what others
have attributed to some new faculty or sense developed by their
processes, and distinct from the ordinary organs of sense.
However, I have never met with any case of accurate thought-
reading, where the patients could generally and accurately
interpret my unexpressed thoughts and desires regarding him,
without some sensible sign to indicate my ideas to him; but, as
already stated, I feel confident that there are many, who, from
their excited and concentrated state of mind, and quickened
senses, will catch ideas far more quickly than in the ordinary
condition, who may be thus imposed upon, and excited to act
by means of impressions received through the senses, which
would entirely escape them in the ordinary condition.
In consequence of the statement made in the third section, of
the tranquillising effect of causing highly sensitive patients to lie
with the head towards the north, and the extreme discomfort of
other directions of the body, in reference to the magnetic meri-
dian, I had a patient who had been long an extreme sufferer,
and in whose welfare I felt the deepest interest, to submit to
the trouble of such a change in the position of her bed, but, I
am sorry to say, it was followed by no beneficial effect.
I am perfectly aware that the results of a single case are not
competent to refute what has been alleged, as proved by a num-
ber of others. However, I have stated my fact on the point; and,
whilst I readily admit my firm conviction that, with sensitive
patients, who, from whatever cause they may have imbibed notions
that certain directions of the body, either when asleep or awake,
might be followed by feelings of physical as well as mental dis-
comfort, the mere idea would be adequate to the production of
such effects; still, I do not believe there is any adequate physical
cause for such results, merely as regards the polarity of the earth
and human frame. The following are the grounds for this opinion.
The constituent parts of the human frame are dia-magnetic,that
is, under the magneticinfluence, they have a tendency to assume
the equatorialaxis, instead of the polar direction; and it there-
25
THE POWER OF THE
fore appears to me extremely improbable that a combination of
dia-magneticsshould, merely in consequence oftheir combination,
become invested with the very opposite qualitiesof the constituent
parts. To say the least of it, this would be at variance with all
which has yet been ascertained of such powers in the inanimate,
physical, and chemical world. It therefore appears to me, that
the peculiarities referred to by Baron Reichenbach, under this
head, are more likely to have arisen from a mental than a
physical cause.
A few days after the above paragraph was written, I read it
to a most intelligent friend, who told me, that she had just
received a letter from her brother, who had been attending some
lectures by Professor Faraday, and kindly offered to send me an
extract from his letter, corroborative of what I had read to her.
The following is the extract which I received the following
morning, and is particularly gratifying, coming as it does from
the very highest authority we have on this subject. " I have
been greatly interested lately, with a course of lectures by
Faraday on Electricity and Magnetism, which I am sorry to
say, is just concluded. You will no doubt be gratified to learn
that, in common with the whole human race, you are a magnet!
with this peculiarity only, that if youwere suspended by the mid-
die, you would point East and West, instead of North and South
-with which interesting fact, I leave you to your meditations."
That some of Baron Reichenbach's patients should have
manifested the power of seeing luminous emanations in the
dark, over the graves of the dead, more especially of those
recently buried, I think admits of a more probable explanation
than that propounded by the Baron. We know that during
certain stages of decay of vegetable and animal matter, a phos-
phorescent appearance is manifested in the dark to ordinary
vision, and, of course, it must be still more so to the highly
sensitive. But there is another result of such organic decay
still more powerfully felt by all, namely, its disagreeable odour.
Few can escape the recognition of this, even in the bright light
of day. Again: we are so much in the habit of associating
visible or tangible forms with impressions which are conveyed
26
MIND OVER THE BODY.
to our minds through any of the organs of sense, that the blind
are in the habit of expressing themselves as seeing such and
such persons, whom they recognise approaching, merely by the
sound of their voices, or tread of their steps, and so on.
In like manner a smell of any sort suggests corresponding
ideas; and I have found hypnotic patients who recognised indi-
viduals of their acquaintance quite readily by smell, who always
said, when asked how they knew who was present, "I see him
or her," and, when the nostrils were stopped, thought the party
had gone away. The sympathy which exists between the eyes
and the nose is well proved by a strong light producing sneez-
ing; and the converse of this is very natural, that a strong
impression on the olfactory nerves might excite in the mind of
a highly sensitive and imaginative person the idea of some
visible appearance. This will account for the ghost-story quite
as readily as the theory of the Baron, and will be found more
generally available, as few people are so constituted as to be able
to pass through such places without being painfully reminded,
through their olfactory organs, that they are treading on the
mortal remains of friends departed.
But I may be met with the objection to my arguments by an
appeal which has been made to the Daguerreotype, which could
not be influenced bymind,-for an experiment has been recorded
by Baron Reichenbach, where, by the mere exposure of a sensi-
tive plate in a box with a magnet, all light being excluded, an
impression had been made, as if it had been exposed to the full
influence of light, which did not happen, when another plate
was so confined without the magnet. It appeared to me that
such an important deduction ought not to have been arrived at,
from one or two experiments of such a ticklish nature; and
more especially so, when the iodised plates, were so long kept
before being exposed to the mercurial vapour; for it was natural
to expect some chemical change might take place with them
irrespective of light. I have repeated these experiments with
nine plates, prepared at different times with the greatest care
by Mr. Akers, the patentee of the Manchester photographic
gallery, (one of the most correct professors of his art,) and the
27
THE POWER OF THE
experiments varied so as to guard against error, by mutual
correction. The experiments have been tried by close and free
exposure of three plates to the poles of a powerful horse-shoe
magnet, (originally of 80lbs. lifting power, but somewhat
reduced from use,) and of other three similarly situated, only
with two sheets of black paper interposed so as to intercept the
rays of light, if any were emitted from the magnetic poles, and
another was enclosed in a box at a distance from the magnet,
and all kept from 66 to 74 hours; but in no instance was there
any appearance of them having been acted on by light,-the
only change being such chemical changes as generally arise
from keeping prepared plates for some time before being expo-
sed to mercury. The latter process was also performed by Mr.
Akers for the purpose of insuring greater accuracy from his
daily practice of the art. Two other plates were enclosed in a
camera and exposed at such a distance as must have given a
picture of the poles of the magnet, and flames issuing from
them-for the camera was adjusted to 41 times the distance of
ordinary light, and one left 66 the other 35- hours-but no such
indications manifested themselves. I think, therefore, that I am
warranted to conclude that no light, capable of affecting an
iodised plate, is given out at the poles of magnets, as alleged
from the experiments referred to by Baron Reichenbach.*
Having thus far investigated Baron Reichenbach's speculations,
and proved the major propositions to be erroneous, as respects
proving the phenomena he refers to as resulting from a new im-
ponderable, I consider it unnecessary to prosecute the subject in
the minor details. I may, however remark, that I can readily
imagine, from the exalted sensibility of particular individuals,
and their highly concentrative state of mind, that they may be
competent to detect electric, calorific, and physical qualities of
objects, which would escape the observations of themselves and
others, when in the ordinary and less sensitive condition. And
again: whilst I deny, that we have any satisfactory proof of this
new imponderable, passing from the operator to the patient, as
* Mr. Dancer, the optician, kindly lent me apparatus, and saw and
approved of my arrangements, as well adapted for the purpose.
28
MIND OVER THE BODY.
alleged, during the processes of the mesmerists, still I readily
admit that the operator, for the reasons already assigned, of
mental impression changing physical action, is very likely to
feel an aura in his finger ends, the position, action, and mental
direction, all tending to excite in them turgesence and increased
sensibility. I can also easily conceive, that the passes, through
their physical, electrical, and other effects, tending to draw the
patient's attention to particular parts, thus exciting their func-
tions, and withdrawing it fronm others, thereby depressing
their functions, and especially if the patient expects such results
to ensue from such processes, are very likely to be followed by
such results, irrespective of any special influence being trans-
mitted from the operator to the patient, of the nature alleged by
Baron Reichenbach and others.
The mesmerists, who have entertained the notion that the sleep
and other phenomena occurring during their processes arose
from a magnetic fluid, or some special influence issuing from
their persons, and passing into that of the patient, of course hail
these speculations of Baron Reichenbach as demonstrative proof
of the correctness of their theory of mesmerism. Some of their
patients having declared that they saw blue or variegated sparks
passing from the fingers of the operator, when making passes in
mesmerising a patient, water, or other inanimate object, or that
they saw a blue fluid, or one of still brighter hue, issuing from
the eyesof the operator and darting towards them, when gazing
fixedly for the purpose of mesmerising; or that they perceived a
luminous halo surrounding the head of a person engaged in deep
thought, must have felt gratified by the announcement, con-
sidering it well calculated to confirm in their minds, the notion
of the physical entity of the agent. But, when those patients
have further described that when the operator has been engaged
in silently willing, for example, that a patient should be made
to come towards him, there is seen by the patient, a stream of
something passing from the head of the operator to that of the
patient, like a rope, and that he not only sees this, but feels its
influence as a rope, or innumerable threads drawing him irre-
sistibly towards the operator, the entity must now appear fully
29
THE POWER OF THE
confirmed. But again, when some of these subjects become, at
length, so accomplished and susceptible as to be able to perceive
these visible appearances in the wide waking state, it cannot be
wondered at that those whose long cherished opinions lay in that
direction, should jump to the conclusion that now the point is
fully and satisfactorily settled. Under such a combination of
circumstances, individuals may be excused for overlc king what
to others is a very obvious source of fallacy--viz., the tendency
of a continued fixed gaze to confuse the vision, and of a fixed
idea and expectation to confuse and bewilder the mind.
It is well known that the undue excitement of an organ dis-
turbs the normal functions of surh organ; and that in a state of
fever, as delirium tremens, and various morbid states of the
nervous system, and even in the healthy state during dreaming,
the patient imagines that he feels and sees, or hears all sorts of
forms, colours, sounds, &c. We do not, on that acoount,
subscribe our belief in the reality of the objects, or peculiar
attributes he has seen, heard, or felt, or the imaginary feats he
has accomplished. In this case we estimate the phenomena as
mental and morbid delusions; and such I apprehend ought to
be our conclusion in reference to these extraordinary and
startling allegations.
Inasmuch as patients can throw themselves into the nervous
sleep, and manifest all the usual phenomena of mesmerism,
through their own unaided efforts, as I have so repeatedly
proved by causing them to maintain a steady fixed gaze at any
point, concentrating their whole mental energies on the idea of
the object looked at; or that the same may arise by the patient
looking at the point of his own finger, or as the Magi of Persia
and Jogi of India have practised for the last 2,400 years, for
religious purposes, throwing themselves into their ecstatic trances
by each maintaining a steady fixed gaze at the tip of his own
nose; it is obvious that there is noneed for an exoteric influence
to produce the phenomena of mesmerism. The agency may be
entirely personal or subjective, and in such cases as I have
illustrated by extracts from Ward's History of the Hindoos and
the Dabistan, through certain associations of ideas, such self-
30
MIND OVER THE BODY.
memerised patients can see and imagine as great, or indeed
far greater wonders than are recounted by our most successful
mesmerists of modem times, with the additional aid of their
alleged mesmeric fluid. In proof of this I beg to refer to my
paper in the MedicalTimes, page 272, vol. xi. The great object
in all these processes, is to induce a habit of abstraction or con-
centration of attention, in which the subject is entirely absorbed
with one idea, or train of ideas, whilst he is unconscious of, or
indifferently conscious to, every other object, purpose, or action.
I had long been familiar with the fact, that during a certain
stage of hypnotism, patients may be made to give various mani-
festations, or declarations oftheir feelings and emotions, according
to previously existing ideas, or suggestions imparted to them
during the sleep; and, moreover, that such associations once
formed, were liable to recur ever after, under a similar combi-
nation of circumstances. As occurs in ordinary dreaming, they
seem generally at once to adopt the idea as a reality, without
taking the trouble of reasoning on the subject as to the proba-
bility of such ideas being only imaginary; and their extreme mo-
bility inthe hypnotic state at a certain stage renders them prompt
with their corresponding physical response. In proof of this, and
how readily those inattentive to these facts may misapprehend
what they see realized in such cases, I beg to submit the following
interesting illustration. When in London lately, I had the
pleasure of calling upon an eminent and excellent physician,
who is in the habit of using mesmerism in his practice, in suit-
able cases, just as he uses any other remedy. He spoke of the
extraordinary effects which he had experienced from the use of
magnets applied duringthe mesmeric state,and kindly offered to
illustrate the fact on a patient who had been asleep all the time
I was in the room, and in that stage, during which I felt assured
she could overhear every word of our conversation. He told
me, that when he put the magnet into her hands, it would pro-
duce catalepsy of the hands and arms, and such was the result.
He wafted the hands and the catalepsy ceased. He said that a
mere touch of the magnet on a limb, would stiffen it, and such
he proved to be the fact.
B2
31
THE POWEU OF THE
I now told him, that I had got a little instrument in my
pocket, which although far less than his, I felt assured would
prove quite as powerful, and I offered to prove this by operating
on the same patient, whom I had never seen before, and who
was in the mesmeric state when I entered the room. My
instrument was about three inches long, the thickness of a quill,
with a ring attached to the end of it. I told him that when put
into her hands, he would find it catalepsize both hands and arms
as his had done, and such was the result. Having reduced this
by wafting, I took my instrument from her, and again returned
it, in another position, and told him it would now have the very
reverse effect-that she would not be able to hold it, and that
although I closed her hands on it, they would open, and that it
would drop out of them, and such was the case,-to the great
surprise of my worthy friend, who now desired to be informed
what I had done to the instrument to invest it with this new and
appositepower. This I declined doing for the present; but I
promised to do so, when he had seen some further proofs of its
remarkable powers. I now told him that a touch with it, on
either extremity would cause the extremity to rise and become
cataleptic, and such was the result; that a second touch on the .
same point would reduce the rigidity, and cause it to fall, and
such again was proved to be the fact. After a variety of other
experiments, every one of which proved precisely as I had
predicted, she was aroused. I now applied the ring of my
instrument on the third finger of the right hand, from which it
was suspended, and told the doctor, that when it was so sus-
pended, it would send her to sleep. To this he replied "it never
will," but I again told him that I felt confident that it would
send her to sleep. We then were silent, and very speedily she
was once more asleep. Having aroused her, I put the instru-
ment on the second finger of her left hand, and told the doctor
that it would be found she could Nor go to sleep, when it was
placed there. He said he thought she would, and he sat steadily
gazing at her, but I said firmly and confidently that she would
not. After a considerable time the doctor asked her if she did
not feel sleepy, to which she replied "not at all;" could you rise
32
MIND OVER THE BODY.
and walk? when she told him she could. I then requested her
to look at the point of the fore-finger of her right hand, which
I told the doctor would send her to sleep, and such was the
result; and, after being aroused, I desired her to keep a steady
gaze at the nail of the thumb of the left hand which would send
her to sleep in like manner, and such proved to be the fact.
Having repaired to another room, I explained to the doctor
the real nature and powers of my little and apparently magical
instrument,-that it was nothing more than my portmanteau-key
andring,and that what had imparted toit such apparently varied
powers was merely the predictions which the patient had over-
heard me make to him, acting upon her in the peculiar state
of the nervous sleep, as irresistible impulses to be affected, accord-
ing to the results she had heard me predict. Had I predicted
that she would see any flame, or colour, or form, or substance,
animate or inanimate, I know from experience that such would
have been realized, and responded to by her; and that, not
from any desire on her part to impose upon others, but because
she was self-deceived, the vividness of her imagination in that
state, inducing her tobelieve as real, what were only the figments
of fancy, suggested to her mind by the remarks of others. The
power of suggestions of this sort also, in paralyzing or energising
muscular power is truly astounding; and may all arise in perfect
good faith with almost all patients who have passed into the
second conscious state, and with some, during the first conscious
stage; and with some weak-minded, or highly imaginative or
credulous and concentrative people, even in the wahing condition.
The latter constitutes that class of subjects who manifest what
are called the " vigilant phenomena." The true cause of
these "vigilant phenomena" is not a physical influence from
without, but a mental delusion from within, which paralyzes their
reason, and independent volition, so that for the time being they
are mere puppets in the hands of another person by whom they
are irresistibly controlled, so that they can only see, or hear, or
taste, or feel, or act, in accordance with his will and direction.
They have their whole attention fixed on what may be said
or signified by this alleged superior power, and consequently
33
THE POWER OF THE
perceive impressions through the excited state of the organs
of sense, called into operation, which they could not perceive
in their ordinary condition; and this sort of clairvoyance
or thought-reading, the mesmerists attribute to some special
influence, such as the new imponderable of Reichenbach. So
soon as patients can be made to believe that in the waking state,
the evidence of their senses is more trust-worthy than mere ideal
or suggested impressions; and that they can really exercise
their own independent powers in opposition to the alleged
power of the will of another, through his auricular suggestions
or passes, and other manoeuvres, it will instantly be found that
the spell is broken, and that rational beings can no longer be
magnetically tied together, or to chairs, or tables, or the floor;
or made to see an object of every colour and hue, or metamor-
phosed into every nature, form, or creature, the operator may
incline and indite. It may have been interesting enough to
have demonstrated that the human mind could be so subjugated
and controlled; but, as I have formerly said, and now repeat, I
do not consider the continual repetition of such experiments in
the waking state, as at all proper, or free from the danger of
thr wing the faculties of the mind of such subjects into a per-
manently morbid condition.
It would be inconsistent with the scope of this paper to enter
into an elaborate detail of my views as to the philosophical
explanation of the modes of exciting and varying certain trains
of ideas, and their consequent manifestations during the nervous
sleep. The inquiry is not only curious, but also one of great
interest, in respect to the power of the mind in controlling phy-
sical action, and of physical impressions in re-acting on the
mind. I have given a pretty ample discussion on these topics
in a second edition of my little work on hypnotism, now pre-
paring for the press, to which I beg leave to refer those who
feel desirous of prosecuting the inquiry, and particularly those
who desire to do so for curative purposes.
In conclusion, I beg particularly to remark, that, whilst my
experiments and observations are opposed to the theoretical
notions of Baron Reichenbach and the mesmerists, in all the
,34
MIND OVER THE BODY.
more important points, they directly confirm the reality of the
facts, as to the power which we possess of artificially producing
certain phenomena by certain processes; as also of intensifying
effects which arise in a minor degree, spontaneously, or by the
patient's own unaided efforts. They allege that the exciting
cause is the impulsion into the body of the patient from without
of a portion of this new force; whilst I attribute it to a subjec-
tive or personal influence, namely, that of the mind and body
ofthe patient acting and re-acting on each other in a particular
manner, from an intense concentration of inward consciousness
on one idea, or train of ideas, which may, to a certain extent,
be controlled and directed by others. The latter power, how-
ever, merely arises from the mental and physical impressions
producing still greater concentration of the patient's attention
in a particular direction; that is to say, by concentrating their
attention to the point over which they see anything drawn, or
upon which a mechanical, calorific, frigorific, or electric impres-
sion is made, whereby a greater supply of nervous influence,
blood, and vital action, is drawn to the part from the physical
and mental resourcesof the patient himself, and not from the
person or substance exciting those physical impressions. They
enable the patient more effectually to concentrate his own vital
p'owers, and thus to energise function; on the same principle
as a patient afflicted with anesthesia, or loss of feeling, is able
to hold an object in his hand whilst he looks at it, but will allow
it to drop when his eyes are averted.
It is worthy of particular remark, that my researches prove
the power of concentration of attention, as not only capable of
changing physical action, so as to make some patients, in the
wide waking state, imagine that they see and feel from an
external influence what is due entirely to an internal or mental
cause; but I have extended the researches, so as to prove, that
the same law obtains in respect to all the other organs of spe-
cial sense, and different functions of the body. My theoretical
views, therefore, instead of diminishing, rather enhance the
value of this power as a means of cure. They strikingly
prove how much may be achieved by proper attention to, and
35
l6 POWER OF THE MIND OVER THE BODY.
direction of, this power of the human mind over the physical
frame, and vice versa, in meliorating the ills which flesh is heir
to. I beg further to remark, in support of my views, that in
the experiments of Baron Reichenbach, and the mesmerists
generally, all which I have endeavoured to prove as requisite
for the production of the phenomena referred to, is necessarily
brought into play during their processes, in super-addition to
theirallegedmesmericfluid,ornew force; of the latter, therefore,
under such circumstances, I maintain that we have, as yet, had
no direct and satisfactory proof; and it is unphilosophical to
attribute to a new and extraneous force what can be readily
accounted for from the independent physical and psychical
powers of the patient, which must necessarily be in active
operation, along with their processes, and alleged new impon-
derable.
The results of my experiments satisfactorily prove the unity
of the mind; and the remarkable power of the soul over the
body.
3, ST. PETER'S SQUAmE,
Manchester,July, 1846.
GRANT AND CO., PRINTERi rALL MALL, MARKET STRUET, ArCasESTE&
