{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1846__flourens___phrenology_examined.pdf","mytitle":"Phrenology Examined","mylang":"de"}
V
PHRENOLOGY EXAMINED.
BY P. FLO U R EN S,
•
m
bm
bbror rm vuinora
o
a
d
b
m
y
,tbutetualb
ro
r
bta
rtorthb ro
y
a
l aoam
m
y
orsoiaNoas(instituteortra
m
o
r), m
km
bvrortubr
o
y
a
laooianaaor
L
O
N
D
O
NA
M
DX
D
IN
B
U
R
O
, O
r T
U
BR
O
Y
A
LA
O
A
D
E
M
YO
fB
O
IB
M
O
B
BO
T
S
T
O
C
K
H
O
L
M
,OT M
U
N
IO
U
,A
N
DO
fT
O
W
N
,B
T
O
.E
T
O
.
P
R
O
T
B
S
S
O
RorC
O
M
P
A
R
A
T
IV
EP
H
Y
S
IO
L
O
O
YA
TT
U
BN
A
T
U
R
A
L
B
IS
T
O
R
TM
U
S
E
U
MA
TP
A
R
IS
.
“J’ai un sentiment cliur.de ma liberty.”
BOSSOET,Trait! du Librb Arbxtrb.
Translated from the Second Edition of 1845, by
CHARLES DE LUCENA MEIGS, M.D.
M
E
M
B
.A
M
X
R
. P
H
IL
. S
O
O
.B
T
O
.B
T
O
.
------------- -------------STAN FORD
LIBRARIES
PHILADELPHIA:
HOGAN & T H O M P S O N .
1846.
r*
j
Entered accornxko to Act or CoNonxrr, xn tox tear 1945,
By CHARLES D. MEIOS. M. D.
in Tnt Ctxnx’s Ofmcx or tux PxmmcT Cocut ron i d i E astern
DISTRICT or rXNKBYLVAKIA.
DR. JAMES JACKSON,
OF BOSTON.
M r DEAR S IR :
Perhaps 1 have taken too great a liberty in
sending to you in this public manner, and in
praying you to accept a copy of M. Flourens*
ingenious work. 1 have a very sincere desire
that you should read the Inquiry; for I feel
sure, that if you approve of it, the studious
portion of our countrymen who may peruse it,
will concur in the opinion of a gentleman so
justly distinguished as yourself in every good
word and work, and so capable of judging as
vi
to the salutary or evil tendency of the produc­
tions of our teeming press.
Inasmuch as many of our countrymen have
heretofore felt, and many do now feel, desirous
to know the truth as to the question of the
multiple nature of the human mind, I have
hero translated the Examination, in order that
they might have an opportunity to learn what
is thought of GalPs doctrines by one of the
best and most precise thinkers in Europe.
Professor Flourens, by his writings on the
brain and nervous system, by his courses of
lectures at the Jardin des Plantes, by numerous
writings on various scientific subjects, by his
position in the Institute, has acquired a place
among tho literary and scientific celebrities of
the present age. The amiable and elegant
manners, and the fine disposition of this dis­
tinguished character, coincide with his acknow­
ledged learning, and exactness, and zeal, to
accumulate upon him the public respect and
esteem. It is therefore with great confidence
that I present to you this copy of his criticism
upon Phrenology, since I suppose that every
writing of so good a man might prove accept­
able to you, and to the studious portion of our
countrymen generally.
I invoke your approbation of what I cannot
but deem a masterly criticism of the doctrines
of Gall. So highly have I appreciated it, that
I cannot readily suppose it possible to rise
from its perusal, without being convinced that
Gall was wholly mistaken in his views of
the human mind; and of course, that all the
cranioscopists, mesmerizers, and diviners, who
have followed his track, or risen up on the
basis of his opinions, are equally in orror.
In order to have a just view of human
responsibility, it is indispensable to entertain
the justest notions of the nature of the human
mind. If Phrenology be an unsubstantial
hypothesis, no phrenologist is fit to be a
♦
•••
viu
juror, a judge, or a legislator: for since all
human law—the whole social compact—and
indeed all divine law, as relative to human
propensities and actions—is founded on some
real nature of the soul and mind, there is risk
that manifestly erroneous conceptions of the
free-will, of the conscience, of the judgment,
and the perceptive powers, &c. may mislead
the juror, the judge, and the legislator, in their
vote, their opinion, and their notion of rights
and wrongs.
If I am correct in entertaining these appre­
hensions as to the influence of false metaphy­
sics on the public characters I have enumerated,
there is abundaut cause to rejoice when a blow
is struck, like that pulverizing blow which is
given in this work, to so considerable an error.
There are thousands among the young and
ardent and curious of our countrymen and
countrywomen, whose minds may be likewise
led astray from the truth j but if it be mis-
ix
chievous for the judge and the juror and the
legislator to entertain erroneous views upon
the nature of the understanding, the mind,
or the soul, it is equally to be deprecated
where the error is sown broadcast in the land.
Tares, if not in themselves poisonous, serve
at best to choke up the useful or beautiful
plants that ought to be cultivated in the fields
of science or morals; but you will find that
M. Flourens regards them as poisons.
Has not M. Flourens clearly refuted the
phrenologists? and has he not, in doing so,
performed a useful and an acceptable service ?
I pray you to believe that I am, with the
most grateful respect and the sincerest esteem,
Your obliged and faithful servant,
CHARLES D. MEIGS.
Philadelphia^Dec. 10, 1845.
\
I
TO
T H E M E M O R Y
or
DESCARTES
AUTHOR’S PREFACE.
Having been a witness to the progress of
phrenology, I was led to the composition of
tfte following treatise.
Each succeeding age has a philosophy of
its own.
The seventeenth century recovered from
the philosophy of Descartes; the eighteenth
recovered from that of Locke and Condillac:
is the nineteenth to recover from that of Gall?
This is a really important question.
1 propose, in this work, to examine phreno
logy as it appears in the writings of Gall,
of Spurzheim, and of Broussais.
xiv
My wish is to be brief. There is, however,
one great secret in the art of being brief:
it is to be clear.
I frequently quote Descartes: I even go
further; for I dedicate my work to his me­
mory. I am writing in opposition to a bad
philosophy, while I am endeavouring to recall
a sound one.
CONTENTS.
I. Of Gall.—Of Ids doctrine in g e n eral.......................17
II. Of Gall.—Of the faculties.......................................> 4 7
III. Of Gall.—The o rg a n s............................... . . 69
IV. Of Spurxheim................................................ . . . 9 6
V. Of Broussais . • ..................................................... 116
VI. Broussais’s Psycology............................... . . 121
VII. Broussais’s Physiology........................ . . . , 126
VIII. Of G all......................................................... . . 127
Note I. Anatomical relations supposed by Gall to exist
between the organs of the external senses and
the organs of the intellectual faculties . . . 131
II. Difference between instinct and understanding .1 3 3
III. Gall as an o b serv er...............................................137
IV. The animal spirits . . . . . . . . . . . 139
V. Exagoration of Broussais, even in phrenology . .140
VI. Contractility of B roussais....................................142
VII Real labours of Gall as to the brain . . . . . 149
I
OP GALL.
OF HIS DOCTRINE IN GENERAL.
The great work in which Gall sets forth his
doctrine is well known.* That work shall
serve as the groundwork of my examination.
I shall examine in succession each of the
questions studied by the authorj merely intro­
ducing some slight changes in the order in
which they are arranged.
* Anatomie et Physiologic du systeme nerveux cn gdndral,
et du cerveau en particulicr, avec des observations aur la possi­
bility de reconnaftre plusieurs dispositions intellectuelles et
morales de l'homme et des animaux par la configuration de
lean tfites; 4 vol. 4to, avec planches. Paris, de 1810 &1819.
2
18
The entire doctrine of Gall is contained in
t
two fundamental propositions, of which the
first is, that understanding resides exclusively ®
in the brain, and the second, that each parti- (5)
eular. faculty of the understanding is provided
in the brain with an organ proper to itself.
Now, of these two propositions, there is
certainly nothing new in the first one, and
perhaps nothing true in the second one.
Let us commence our examination with the
first proposition.
I say that in the first proposition, namely,
-that the brain is the exclusive seat of the under­
standing, there is nothing new. Gall himself
admits this to be the case.
“ For a long time,” says he, “ both philoso-
i ; »
phers and physiologists, as well as physicians,
have contended that the brain is the organ
of the soul.” * The Opinion that the brain,
(?)
.* T. ii. p. 217. “ It is generally understood,” says he further,
“ that the brain is the peculiar organ of the soul.” T. ii. p. 14.
19
(as a whole, or such and such parts of t h e
brain considered separately,) is the seat o f
the soul, is, in fact, as old as learning itself.
Descartes placed the soul in the pineal g la n d ,
Willis in the corpora striata, Lapeyronie in
the corpus callosum, &c. &c.
As to the more recent authorities, Gall quotes
Scemmerring, who says precisely that, " th e
brain is the exclusive instrument of all sensa­
tion, all thought, and all will,” * &c. He quotes
Haller, who proves (proves is the very expres­
sion made use of by Gall himself,) that "sen ­
sation does not take place at the point where
the object touches the nerve, the point where
the impression is made, but in the brain.” !*
He might have quoted many other authorities
to the same effect.
Were not Cabanis’s writings anterior to the
* Gall, t ii. p. 221.
f Gall, t ii. p. 222. Haller, Elera. Physiolog. etc* t ir.
p. S04. Sensus preterea sedem in cerebro esse, atque ad
cerebrum per nervos mandari, alia sunt -qu® ostendunt.
20
time of Gall ? and did not he say, “In order
to obtain a just idea of those operations whose
result is thought, the brain must be considered
as a peculiar organ designed to produce it, just
as the stomach and the bowels are designed
to produce digestion, the liver to secrete the
bile/! &c. ?* a proposition so extravagant as
to become almost ridiculous, but which is in
truth the very proposition of Gall himself,
except as to some exaggeration in the terms
employed.
Antecedently to the time of Gall, both
Scemmerring and Cuvier, in the comparative
anatomy of the various classes of animals,
had investigated the ratio existing between
the development of the encephalon and that
of the intellectual power. The following re­
markable phrase is from the pen of Cuvier:
“The proportion of the brain to the medulla
* Rapports du Physique et du Moral do l’bomme, II* M6-
raoire, § vii.
21
oblongata, a proportion which is greater in
man than in all other animals, is a very good
index of the perfection of the creature’s intelli­
gence, because it is the best index of the pre­
eminence of the organs of reflection above
the organs of the external senses.” * And this
other still more remarkable phrase: “ In ani­
mals the intelligence appears to be greater in
proportion as the volume of the hemispheres
is greater.”t
Gall, in an especial manner, contends against
the assertion of Bichat, who remarks that “ The
influence of the passions is exerted invariably
upon the organic life, and not upon the animal
life; all the signs that characterise them are
referable to the former and not to the latter.
Gestures, which are the mute exponents of the
sentiments and the understanding, afford a re­
markable proof of this truth. When we wish
* Lcjons d'Anat Comp. t. ii. p. 153;
f Ibid. p. 173.
22
to signify something relative to the memory,
the imagination, to our perception, to the
judgment, &c..the hand moves involuntarily
towards tlie head: if we wish to express love,
joy, grief, hatred, it is directed towards the re­
gion of tho heart, the stomach, or the bowels.” *
Doubtless, there is much that might be criti­
cised in the foregoing words of Bichat; never­
theless, to say that the passions expend their
, influences upon the organic life, is not the same
thing as to say that they reside or exist there.
Bichat had already remarked, that “ Every
species of sensation has its centre in the brain,
for sensation always supposes both impression
and perception.,,t Furthermore, regarding this
distinction, (which as yet has not been drawn
with sufficient clearness,) between the parts
that are the seats of the passions, and the parts
that are affected by their action, Gall might
* Rochcrchcs Phys. sur la Vio et la Mort, art. vi. § ii.
| Ib'ul.
23
have found in Descartes the following remark,
which is not loss judicious than acute.
“ Although,” says he, writing to Leroy, “ the
spirits that move the muscles come from the
brain, we must, nevertheless, assign as seats of
the passions, tho places that are most consider­
ably affected by them$ hence, 1 say, the prin­
cipal seat of the passions, as far as they relate
to the body, is the heart, because it is the heart
that is most sensibly affected by them; but
their place is in the brain, in as far as they
affect the soul, for the soul cannot suffer imme­
diately, otherwise than through the brain.” *
As I am quoting Descartes, who, I ask, more
clearly than Descartes has perceived that the
soul can have only a very circumscribed seat
in the economy, and that that circumscribed
seat is the brain itself?
“ We know,” says he, “ that, properly speak-
* Descartes, Lettre &Regius ou Leroy, t viii. p, 515, edit,par
M. Cousin.
24
ing, it is not inasmuch as the soul is in the
members that servo as organs to the exterior
senses, that the soul feels, but inasmuch as she
is in the brain, where she exercises the faculty
denominated common sense.” *
He elsewhere observes: u Surprise is ex­
pressed because I do not recognise any other
point of sensation except that which exists in
the brain; but all physicians and surgeons
will, I hope, assist me in proving this point,
for they aro aware of the common fact that a
person who has been subjected to amputation
of a limb, continues to feel pain in a part that
he no longer possesses.” t
Here then, according to Descartes, we find
that the soul is situated, that is to say, feels in
the brain, and only in the brain. The follow­
ing passage shows with what precision he
• T. v. p. 34. « I remark,” says he again, “ that the mind
docs not receive the impression from all parts of the body, but
from the brain only.”—
-T. i. p. 344.
fT .v i. p.347.
25
excluded even the external senses from any
participation with the functions of the soul.
“ I have shown,” says he, “ that size, dis­
tance, and form are perceived only by the
reason; and that, by deducing them the one
from the other.” *
“ I cannot agree with the assertion that this
error (the error caused by the bent appear­
ance of a stick partly plunged into water,) is
not corrected by the understanding but by the
touch; for, although the sense in question
makes us judge that the stick is straight, yot
that cannot correct the error of vision; but
furthermore, it is requisite that reason should
teach us to confide, in this case, rather to our
judgment after touching, than to the judgment
that we come to after using our eyes; but this
reason cannot be attributed to the sense, but
to the understanding alone; and in this very
* T. u. p. 357. .
26
example, it is the understanding that corrects
the error of the sense.” *
The brain, then, is the exclusive seat of the
soul; and all sensation,even those operations
that appear to depend upon the simple external
sense, is function of the soul.
Gall falls back upon Condillac, who, much
less rigorous in this particular than Descartes,
says, that “ all our faculties proceed from
the senses.” t But when Condillac speaks
thus, he evidently speaks by ellipsis, for he
immediately adds these words: “ The senses
are only occasional causes. They do not feel;
it is the soul that alone feels, through the
medium of the organs.” :!:
JNow, if it be the soul only that feels, d
* T. ii. p. 358.
•f “ The piincipal object of this work,” says he, “ is to show
how all our knowledge, and all our faculties come from the
senses.”—Traite des Sensations, pr£ambule de l’Extrait Rai­
sonne.
$ Traite des Sensations, pr£am. de l’Extrait Raisonnd.
fortiori, it is the soul only that remembers, that
judges, that imagines, &c. Memory, judg­
ment, imagination, &c., in a word, all our
faculties, are therefore of the soul, and therefore
come from the soul, and not from the senses.
There is no philosopher who has exagge­
rated more than Helvetius the influence of the
senses upon the intelligence. But Helvetius
says, “ In whatsoever manner we interrogate
experience, she always answers that any
greater or lesser superiority of mind is inde­
pendent of any greater or lesser perfection of
the senses.” *
But I leave Helvetius and Condillac, and I
return to Descartes, to Willis, to Lapeyronie,
to Haller, Scemmerring, Cuvier, &c. They
all perceived and all asserted that the brain
is the seat of the soul, and that it is so to
the exclusion of the senses. Therefore, the
* De l’homme, de sea facultds intellectuellea, etc. t L p. 188.
Liege, 1774.
28
proposition that the brain is the exclusive seat
of the soul is not a new proposition, and hence
does not originate with Gall. It belonged to
science before it appeared in his Doctrine.
The merit of Gall, and it is by no means a
slender merit, consists in his having understood
better than any of his predecessors the whole
of its importance, and in having devoted him- l
self to its demonstration. It existed in science <
before Gall appeared—it may be said to reign
there ever since his appearance. Taking each
particular sense, he excluded them all, one
after another, from all immediate participation
in the functions of the understanding.* Far
from being developed in the direct ratio of the
intellection, most of them are developed in an
inverse ratio. Taste and smell are more deve-
i
loped in the quadruped than in man. Sight
'* He very properly distinguishes the senses from the under­
standing ; but, as will be elsewhere seen, he endows each sense
with all the attributes of the understanding. He escapes from
one error only to fall into another.
29
and hearing are more so in the bird than in the
quadruped. The brain alone is in all classes
developed in the ratio of the understanding.
The loss of a sense does not lead to the loss o f
the intelligence. The understanding survives
the loss of sight and hearing. It might survive
the loss of all the senses. To interrupt the
communication between the sense and the
brain, is enough to insure the loss of the
sense. The mere compression of the brain,
which abolishes the intellection, abolishes all
the senses. Far, therefore, from being organs
of the intelligence, the organs of the senses are
not even organs of the Senses, they do not even,
exercise their functions as organs of the senses,
except through the medium of the intelligence,
and this intelligence resides only in the brain.
The brain alone, therefore, is the organ o f
the soul;—is it the whole brain—the brain,
taken en masse? Gall thought so, and Spurz-
heim followed Gall’s opinion; and all the
4 .
30
phrenologists who have come after them have
followed the examples of Gall and Spurzheim.
Yet, after all, it amounts to nothing. If we
deprive an animal of its cerebellum, it loses
only its locomotive action. If we deprive it of
its tubercula quadrigcmina, it loses its sight
only; if we destroy its medulla oblongata, it
loses its respiratory movements, and in conse­
quence thereof, its life.* Neither of these parts,
therefore, that is to say, the cerebellum, the
tubercula quadrigemina, and the medulla ob­
longata, is tho organ of the understanding.
The brain, properly so called, is so, and it
alone. If we remove from an animal the
brain, properly so called, or the hemispheres,
it immediately loses its understanding, and
loses nothing but its understanding.!
The brain, en masse, the encephalonf is then
* See my Recherches Expdrimentales but lea propriety et
les fonctions du Systcmc Ncrveux, 2d edit. Paris, 1842.
f Ibid.
31
a multiple organ ; and this multiple organ con­
sists of four particular organs : the cerebellum,
he seat of the principle that regulates the
movements of locomotion; the tubercula quad-
rigemina, seats of the principle that regulates
the sense of sight ; the medulla oblongata, in
which resides the principle that determines the
respiratory motions; and the brain proper, the
seat, and the exclusive seat of the intelligence.*
Therefore, when the phrenologists promis- \
cuously place the intellectual and moral facul- \
ties in tho brain, considered en masse, they \
Receive themselves. Neither the cerebellum,
the quadrigeminal tubercles, nor the medulla
oblongata can be regarded as seats of these
faculties. AlHhese faculties dwell solely in the
brain, properly so called, or the hemispheres.
The question as to the precise seat of the
intelligence, has undergone a great change
* See my Recherches Exp^rimentales ear lee propriety et
les fonctions da Systeme Nerveux, 2d edit. Paris, 1842.
32
since the time of Gall. Gall believed that the
intelligence was seated indifferently in the
whole encephalon, and it has been proved that
it resides only in the hemispheres.
Further, it is not the encephalon taken en
masse that is developed in the ratio of the intel­
ligence of the creature, but the hemispheres.
Tho mammifera are the animals most highly
endowed with intelligence; they have, other
things being equal, the most voluminous hemi­
spheres. Birds, are the animals most highly
endowed with power of motion; their cerebel­
lum is, other things being equal, the largest.
Reptiles are the most torpid and apathetic of
animals; they have the smallest brain, &c.
, Every thing concurs then to prove, that the _
encephalon, in mass, is a multiple organ with
multiple functions, consisting of different parts,
of which_some are destined to subserve the
locomotive motions, others the motions of the
respiration, &c., while one single one, the brain
33
proper, is designed for_jhft pi1
1
Tftgeg- t h e
intellection.
This being conceded, it is evident that the
. entire brain cannot be divided, as thejjhreiio-
•V* )
logists dividejt^into a number of small organs,
each of which is the seat of a distinct intellec­
tual faculty ; for the entire brain does not serve
the purposes of what is callod the intelligence.
The hemispheres. alone are the seats_of_the
intellectual power; and consequently, the ques­
tion as to whether the organ, the seat of the
intelligence may be divided into several distinct
\ organs, is a question relative solely to the uses
and powers of the hemispheres.
Gall avers, and this is the second funda^
mental proposition of his doctrine, that tile
brain is divided into several organs, each one
of which lodges a particular faculty of the
soul. By the word brain, he understood the
whole brain, and he thus deceived himself.
Let us reduce the application of his proposition
3
34
to tho hemispheres alone, and wo shall see
that he has deceived himself again.
/ It has been shown by my late experiments,
that we may cut away, either in front, or
behind, or abovo, or on ono side, a very
considerable slice of tho hemisphere of tho
brain, without destroying the intelligence,
llenco it appears, that quite a restricted
portion of tho hemispheres may sufTicc for
the purposes of intellection in an animal.*
*
On the other hand, in proportion as these
reductions by slicing away the hemispheres
are continued, the intelligence becomes en­
feebled, and grows gradually less j and certain
limits being passed, is wholly extinguished.
Hence it appears, that the cerebral hemi­
spheres concur, by^their whole mass, in the
full and entire exercise of the intelligence.!
* See my Rechcrchcs Experimcntalcs sur les proprieties et
lex fonctions du Systeme Ncrvcux.
t Ibid.
35
In fine, as soon as one sensation is lost) all
sensation is lost; when one faculty disappears,
all the faculties disappear. There are not,
therefore, different seats for the different facul­
ties, nor for the different sensations. The
faculty of feeling, of judging, of willing any
thing, resides in the same place as the faculty
of feeling, judging, or willing any other thing,
and consequently this faculty, essentially a
unit, resides essentially in a single organ.*
[ The understanding isf therefore, a unit.
According to Gall, there are as many par-
. ticular kinds of intellect* as there are distinct
faculties of the mind. According to him, each
faculty has its perception, its memory, its
judgment, will, &c., that is to say, all the
attributes of the understanding, properly so
called.t
* See my Rcchcrches Experimentalcs sur les proprietes et
les fonctions da Systeme Nerveux.
f “From what I have now said, it clearly follows that the
aperceptive faculty, the faculty of reminiscence, and that of
“ All the intellectual faculties,” says he, “ are
endowed with the perceptive faculty, with
attention, recollection, memory, judgment, and
imagination.” *
Thus each faculty perceives, remembers,
judges, imagines, compares, creates; but these
are trifles—for each faculty reasons. “ When­
ever,” says Gall, “ a faculty compares and
judges of the relations of analogous or different
ideas, there is an act of comparison, there is an
act of judgmont; a sequence of comparisons
and judgments constitutes reasoning,” &c.t
( Therefore, each and every faculty is an
understanding by itself, and Gall says so ex­
pressly. “ There are,” says he, “ as many
^ different kinds of intellect Or understanding as
memory, are nothing but attributes common to all the funda­
mental faculties.”—Gall, t iv.p.319. “ All that I havejust said,
is also applicable to the judgment and the imagination,” &c.—
Ibid. p. 325. “ The sentiments and the propensities also have
their judgment, their imagination, their recollection, and their
memory.”—Ibid. p. 327.
• Ibid. 328.
36
t Ibid. 327.
37
there are distinct faculties.” * " Each distinct
faculty,” says he, further, “ is intellect or
understanding-—each in dividu al intelligence \
(the words are precise) has its proper organ.” tJ
But, admitting all these kinds o f in tellects,
all these in d ivid u a l understandings, where
are we to seek for the General Intelligence, the
understanding, properly so called ? It must,
as you may please, be either an a ttrib u te of
each faculty,t or the collective expression of
all the faculties, or ovon the more simple result
of their common and simultaneous action ;§ in
one word, it cannot be that positive and single
faculty which we understand, conceive of, and
feel in ourselves, when we pronounce the
word soul or understanding.
t * Gall. t. iv. p. 339. f Ibid. p. 341.
$ “ The intellectual faculty and all its subdivisions, such as
perception, recollection, memory, judgment, imagination, dec.
are not fundamental faculties, but merely general attributes of
them.”—Gall, t iv. p. 327.
%“ Reason," says Gall, “ is the result of the simultaneous
action of all the intellectual faculties.”—Gall, t iv. p. 341.
r
38
Now here is the sum and the substance
of Gall’s psycology. For the understanding,
essentially a unit faculty, he substitutes a
multitude of little understandings or faculties,
distinct and isolate. And, as these faculties,
which perform just as he wills them to do—
which he multiplies according to his pleasure,*
seem in his eyes to explain certain phenomena
which are not well explained by the lights of
ordinary philosophy, he triumphs!
He docs not perceive that an explanation,
which is words merely, adapts itself to any
and to every thing. In the time of Male-
branche, every thing was explained by animal
spirits,* Barthcz explained every thing by his
v ita l principle, &c.
“ This,” says Gall, “ explains how the same
m an may possess a judgment that is ready and
sure as to certain objects, while it is imbecile
* Gall enumerates twenty-seven of these faculties, Spurzhcim
enumerates twenty-live, &c.
as to certain others; how he may have the
liveliest and most fruitful imagination upon
some subjects, while it is cold and sterile upon
others.” *
“ Grant,” says he, further, “ to the animals
certain fundamental faculties, and you have
the dog that follows the chase with passion;
the weasel that strangles the poultry with
rage; the nightingale that sings with fervour
beside his mate,” t &c.
No doubt of it. But what sort of philosophy
is that, that thinks to explain a fact by a
word? You observe such or such a penchant
in an animal, such or such a taste or talent in
a m an; presto, a particular faculty is produced
for each one of these peculiarities, and you
suppose the whole matter to be settled. You
deceive yourself; your faculty is only a wordy
—it is the name of the fact,—and all the diffi­
culty remains just where it was before.
* Gall, t iv. p. 325. f Ibid. p. 330.
39
40
Besides, you speak only of the facts that you
; suppose yourself able to explain; you say
nothing of those that you render by your
I system wholly inexplicable. You say not one
| word as to the unity of the understanding, the
| unity of the me, or you deny it. But the
| unity of the understanding, the unity of the
! me, is a fact of the conscious sense, and
i ■ •
the conscious sense is more powerful than all
the philosophies together.
Gall is always talking about observation,
and he was indeed, as an observer, full of
ingenuity. But, in order to follow out an
observation, it must be traced to the very
end, and we must accept all that it yields to
our research; and observation overy whore
gives, and shows every where, and above all
things else, the unity of the understanding, the
unity of the me.
Gall’s philosophy consists only in trans­
muting into a particular understanding each
41
separate mode* of the understanding, properly
so called.
Descartes had already said, u There are in
us as many faculties as there are truths to be
known... But I do not think that any useful
application can be made of this way of think­
ing ; and it seems to me rather more likely to
be mischievous, by giving to the ignorant
occasion for imagining an equal number o f
little entities in the soul.,,t
It may well be supposed that Gall, who in
the word understanding sees nothing but an
abstract word, expressive of the sum of our
intellectual faculties, would also, in the word
will, perceive nothing more than an abstract
word, expressing the sum of our moral
faculties.
* “ I find in myself,*' says Descartes, «divers faculties o f
thought, that have each their own way,. . . whence I conclude,
they are distinct from me, as modes are distinct from things.”—
T. i. p. 332.
t T. viii. p. 169.
42
He had given a definition of reason: “ The
result of the simultaneous action of all the
intellectual faculties.” * In the same way he
defined w ill to be “ the result of the simul­
taneous action of the superior intellectual facul­
ties.” ! But Gall always deceives himself; for
reason and will are not resulls—they are
powers, and primary powers of thought.
Gall, in a manner equally singular, defines
m oral liberty or free w ill.
“ Moral liberty,” says he, “ is nothing more
than tho faculty of being determ ined, and of
determining under motive.” ! Not so: liberty
is precisely the power to determino against all
motive. Locke well defined liberty as pow er:
to-be determined, is to allow one’s self to be
determined—that is, to obey.
Gall says again, “ Unlimited liberty supposes
not only that man governs himself indepen-
* Gall, iv. p. 341.
t Ibid, t ii. p. 100.
f Ibid.
43
dently of all law, but that he is the creator of
his own nature.” * Not at all; it supposes
that he may have choice—and in fact he does
choose.
Lastly, Gall says, “ A phenomenon such
as that of absolute liberty, would be a phe­
nomenon occurring without any cause what- !
evcr.” t Why without cause? The cause
is in the power of choosing—and this power
is a fact. \
Gall’s whole doctrine is one series of errors,
which press upon each other cumulatively.
He resolves that the part of the brain in which
the understanding resides shall *bo divided, into
many small organs, distinct from each other; \
a physiological error. He decries the unity of
the understanding, and looks upon tho will
and tho reason as more results—psycological
errors. In the free will lie perceives merely a
* Gall, t. ii. p. 97. f Ibid.
compulsory determination,* and consequently
a mere result—this is a moral error.
Man’s liberty is a positive faculty, and not
the simple passive result of the preponderance
of one m otive over another m otive, of one
organ over another organ.t
Reason, will, liberty, arc therefore, not as
in Gall’s doctrine, positive facu lties, active
powers; or rather, they are the understand­
ing itself. Reason, will, liberty, are in fact
the understanding, as conceiving, w illin g ,
choosing, or deliberating.%
The consciousness which feels itself to be
one, feels itself free. And you will remark,
that these two great facts given out by the
* “ It is a law of moral liberty, that man shall bo always
determined, and that he shall himself determine from tho most
numerous and most powerful motives."—T. ii. p. 137.
f “ But on organ may act with greater energy, and furnish
a more powerful motive.”—'1\ ii. p. 104.
$ “ Thcro is no person who, upon contemplating himself,
docs not feel and experience that will and liberty ore ono and
the same; or rather, that there is no difference between that
which is voluntary and that which is free."—T. i. p. 496.
45
inward sense, the consciousness, -to wit, th e
unity of the understanding and the positive
power of the free will, are precisely the tw o
first facts denied by the philosophy of Gall.
And take good care to observe further, that
if there be in us any thing that belongs to
the consciousness, it is evidently and par
excellence the sense of our personal unity;
or what is more, the consciousness of our
moral liberty.
Man is a moral force, only inasmuch as he
is a free force. Any philosophy that attempts
the liberty of man, attempts, without knowing
it, morals itself. Man then is free, and as he
is a moral agent only in proportion as he is
free, it would seem that his liberty is the only
attribute of his soul from which Providence
has designed to remove all the boundaries.
“ What is here very remarkablo,” says
Descartes, “ is that, of all within me, there is
not one thing so perfect or so great, but that
%
I know it might be greater and more perfect. {
Thus, for example, if I consider my faculty of
conceiving, I find it of very small extent, and
very limited. If, in the same manner, I exa- ^
mine the memory, the imagination, or any
other one of my faculties, I find not one that is
not very limited and very small. Within me
there is only my will or my liberty of free
will, which I feel to be so great that I conceive
not the idea of another more full and of
greater extent.,,
» Descartes, t i. p. 299. “ It is always in our power to
prevent ourselves from pursuing a good which is clearly known
to us, provided we should think it a good to show in that way
our free will.”—Descartes, t vi. p, 133. “ The fulness of
liberty consists in the great use of our positive ability to follow
the worse, while wc truly know the better.”—Ibid. p. 138.*
46
*
1
i
II.
OF GALL.
OF THE FACULTIES.
Gall’s philosophy consists wholly in the
substitution of m u ltip licity for u n ity . In
place of one general and single brain,* he
substitutes a number of small brains: instead
of one general sole understanding, he sub­
stitutes several individual understandings^*
* The question here relates solely to the brain, properly so
called, (the lobes or cerebral hemispheres.) The rest of the
encephalon does not serve in the operations of the understand-
ing. See the preceding article, p. 29, et seq.
f Individual intelligences—an expression of Gall’s. “Each
individual intelligence has its own proper organ.”—iv. 341.
48
T hese pretended individual understandings !
a re thefaculties.
Now, Gall admits the existence of twenty-
seven of these faculties, each one of them
(since each one is a peculiar understanding)
endowed with its perceptive faculty, its me­
m ory, its judgment, its imagination; &c.*
Hence, there are twenty-seven perceptive
faculties, twenty-seven memories, twenty-seven
judgments, twenty-seven imaginations, &c.
For, if we are to follow Gall, each attribute
is not less distinct than each faculty. The
memory, the judgment, imagination, &c. of
one faculty are not the memory, judgment,
o r imagination of another faculty.
* Even the instincts, according to Gall, have their memory,
imagination, See, "The instinct of propagation, that of the
love of oflspring, pride, vanity, possess, beyond contradiction,
their perceptive' faculty, their recollection, their memory,judg­
ment, imagination, and their own attention.”—T. iv. p. 331.
**The propensities and the sentiments likewise possess their
judgment, their taste, their imagination, their recollection, and
their memory.”—iv. 344.
49
“ The sense of numbers,” says he, “ pos- ; ,
sesses a judgment for the relations of num­
bers; the sense of the arts, a judgment for j
works of art; but where the fundamental
faculty is wanting, the judgment relative to
objects of that faculty must necessarily be
i
wanting likewise.?’* j
He says further: “ It is impossible for an i
individual to possess imagination and judgment j
for any object with the fundamental faculty
for which he has not been gifted by nature.” t
Thus, beyond all doubt: there are twenty-
seven faculties; and as there are twenty-seven
faculties, there must be twenty-seven memories,
judgments, imaginations, &c.
. In one.,word, there is no such thing as^ a
>general understanding; but there are twenty-
I >
• .
t seven special understandings, with three or
1four times twenty-seven distinct attributes
* Gall, t iv. p. 325. f Ibid.
4
50
o f each. Such is the entire pSycology of
G all.
To proceed. Gall’s twenty-seven faculties
a r e : the instinct of propagation, love of off­
spring, self-defence, the carnivorous instinct,
th e sense of property, friendship, cunning,
pride, vanity, circumspection, memory for
things, memory for words, sense of locality,
sense of persons, sense of language, of rela­
tions of colours, relations of sounds, relations
o f numbers, of mechanics, of comparative
sagacity, the metaphysical genius, sarcasm,
poetic talent, benevolence, imitation, religion,
firmness.
Gall says that these faculties are innate,*
and this assertion certainly will not be con­
tested.
Locke, who so vigorously opposed the doc­
trine of innate ideas, never decried the innate-
* See particularly L ii. p. 5.
51
ness of our faculties. He always regarded
them as natural, that is to say, innate.*
Condillac himself, who charges Locke with
having considered the faculties of the soul as
innate, in making these charges confounds the
facu lties o f the soul with the operations o f
the soul.t
Now, that which is perfectly true as to the
operations o f the soulf is by no means so as '
regards her facu lties. All the faculties of the
soul are innate and contemporary, for they are
nothing more than modes of the soul; indeed,
* “ Had I to do with readers wholly free from prejudice, I
should, in order to convince them of this, (the supposition of
innate ideas,) have nothing to do but show them that mankind
acquire all the knowledge they possess by the simple use of
their natural faculties,”—Philos. Essay on the'Human Under­
standing. •
t “ Locke contents himself,” says ho, “ with acknowledging
that the soul perceives, doubts, believes, reasons, knows, wills,
. and reflects: that we are convinced of the existence of these
operational. . . . but he seems to have regarded them as some­
thing innate.” A short time before he had said, “ We shall
see that all the faculties of the soul appeared to him to be
innate qualities.”—Traitd des Sensations. (Extrait raisonnd.)
52
they are the soul itself, viewed under different
aspects. But the operations of the soul suc­
ceed each other, and beget each other. There
can be no memory without previous percep­
tion; there can be no judgment without recol­
lection. In order that there may bo a will,
there must have been a judgment, &c.
After saying that the faculties are innate,
Gall says also that they are independent *
And if, by the word independent, lie means
distinct, there is nothing less contestible. But
if, by this word independent, he understood
(as indeed he does understand) that each
faculty is a real understanding, the question
is altered and the difficulty begins.
F or, if each individual faculty is a proper
understanding, it follows that there are as
m any understandings as there are faculties,
and the understanding ceases to be one, and
* See t iii. p. 8 1 .
53
the me is no longer one. I am well aware
that this is exactly what Gall means; he says
it, and reiterates it throughout Kis work. H e
says it, but does not prove it. And how
should he prove it? Can we prove any thing
against our consciousness ?
“ I remark hero, in the first place,” says
Descartes, “ that there is a great difference
between the mind and the body, in that the
body is, by its nature, always divisible, and
the mind wholly indivisible. For, in fact,
when I contemplate it—that is, when I contem­
plate my own self—and consider myself as a
thing that thinks, I cannot discover in myself
any parts, but I clearly know and conceive that
I am a thing absolutely one and complete.” *
Gall reverses the common philosophy, and
it is worthy of remark, that the whole of his
philosophy, which he thinks so novel,t is, to
*T .i. p.343.
f “ I may now flatter myself," says he, «that the reader ia
54
the very letter, nothing more nor less than
this very inversion. According to common
philosophy, there is one general understand­
ing—a unit j and there aro faculties which arc
but modes of this understanding. Gall asserts
that there are as many kinds of peculiar intel­
ligences as there are faculties, and that the
understanding in general is nothing more than
a mode or attribute of each faculty. He says.
so expressly.
His words are: “ The intellectual faculty and
ail its subdivisions, such as perception, recollec­
tion, memory, judgment, and imagination, are
not fundamental faculties, but merely their
general attributes.” *
Gall first inverts the common philosophy,
and then contends for the existence of all the
consequences of that common philosophy.
sufficiently prepared for quite a near philosophy, deduced
directly from the fundamental forces.”—T. iii. p. 11.
* T. iv. p. 327.
55
He suppresses the me, but insists that there
is a soul. He abolishes the freewill, and yet
contends that there is such a thing as morals.
He makes of the idea of God an idea that is
i merely relative and conditional, but yet asserts
\ that there may be such a thing as religion.
I say he abolishes the me; for the me is the
* soul. The soul is the understanding, general
! and one; but if there be no understanding as
I general, there can be no soul.
According to Gall, there is nothing real and
positive except the faculties.
And these faculties alone are possessed of
organs. “ None of my predecessors,” says he,
“ had any knowledge of those forces which
alone are the functions of special cerebral
organs.” *
By the contrary reasoning, neither the will,
nor the reason, nor the understanding, are
* T. iv. p. 319.
56
possessed of any organs, for they are nothing
. but forces; they are nothing but nouns collec­
tive—words.
“ Thefce observations may suffice,” says Gall,
“ to convince the reader that there cannot exist
any special Organ of the will, or the freewill.” *
He adds: “ It is equally impossible that there
should be any peculiar organ of the reason.”t
Finally he says: “ From all that I have now
said it follows, that the idea of an organ of
the intellect or understanding is quite as inad­
missible as the idea of an organ of the
instinct.” ^
Hence there can be nought but the faculties;
and, according to Gall, these faculties are so
[ distinct, that he attributes to each particular
one a separate organ.§ He divides the under­
standing into little understandings.
• T. iv. p. 341. f Ibid. i Ibid.
$ “ Each individual understanding possesses its own proper
organ.”—T. iv. p. 341.
57
Descartes expressed himself in the following
words: “ We do not conceive of any body,
except as divisible; whereas the human mind
cannot conceive of itself except as indivisible;
for in fact we are incapable of conceiving of
half a soul.” * Gall, however, settles that
point. He makes half souls. He retrenches
or adds as many faculties as suits his plan.
These faculties are separated by material
limits. He goes so far as to say that such
or such a faculty acts with greater or less
facility upon such or such another faculty,
according as one happens to be situated nearer
to or farther off from the other.
“ As the organ of the arts,” says he, “ is
located far from that of the sense of colour,
the circumstance explains why historical
painters have rarely been colourists.” t
Thus, we find that the faculties alone are
» T. i. p. 230. t T. ir. p. 105.
58
possessed of forces. These forces alone are;
endowed with organs; and these organs, by
?
which they are kept separate from each other,!
separate them to distances sufficiently great to:
hinder, in certain cases, one given faculty from!
exercising any influence over another. There-!
i
fore, there is no such thing as unity; there is
no unit faculty, no unit understanding; there
is no me; and if there be no me, there can bej
no soul. j
In the same way he abolishes the free­
will. Will, liberty, reason, in his view,*
are nothing but results, as I have already
stated.
“ To the end,” says he, “ that man may not
be confined merely to the ability to wish—in
order that he may actually will—the concur­
rence of several superior faculties is requisite.
The motives must be weighed, compared, and
* 8m the preceding articles.
59 !
judged; the decision resulting from this opera­
tion is denominated will.” *
“ Reason,” he further adds, “ supposes a
concerted action of the superior faculties. It
is the judgment pronounced by the superior ■
intellectual faculties.,,t
Hence, the will is nothing but a decision;
i
reason is nothing but a judgm ent The facul­
ties concert together. What a singular phi­
losophy, which always substitutes the fictions
of language for the facts of the conscious sense,
and which is satisfied with those fictions!
Freewill is either a power, a force, or it is i
nothing. He resolves that it is merely a result
Gall therefore abolishes the freewill. |
Indeed, he makes of the idea of God nothing
but a relative and conditional idea, for he sup-
*T . ir. p. 340. u From all these faculties comes at last
decision. It is this decision. . . which is really will and wish*
ing.”—T. ii. p. 105.
f T. iv. p. 341.
|
| poses that this idea comes from a particular
j
j organ; and he supposes that that organ may
possibly, in some case, be wanting.
“ It cannot be doubted,” says Gall, “ that
the human race are endowed with an organ
| by means of which it recognises and admires
the Author of the universe.” *
“ God exists,” adds he, “ for there is an
organ to know and adore him.” t
But ho continues: “ Climate and other cir-
I cumstances may obstruct the development of
the cerebral part, by means of which the
Creator designed to reveal himself to his crea­
ture man.” :}
:
Again: “ If there were a people whose
organization should bo altogether defective in
this respect, they would be as little susceptible
as any other kinds of animal, of the religious
idea or sentiment.” §
* T. iv. p. 269. f T. ir. p. 271.
$ T. It. p. 252. § T. iv. p. 252.
60
61
Further: “ There is no God for beings whose
organization does not bear the original stamp
of determinate faculties.” *
W hat! If I happen not to possess a little
peculiar organ, (for it may be wanting,) can I
not feel that God exists! And how can I be
an intelligence, knowing myself, and yet not
knowing that God is ? I do not more strongly
feel that I am, than that God is. MThis idea,”
(the idea of God) says Descartes, “ is born and
produced along with me, just as is the idea of
myself.”t
My understanding, which perceives itself
and feels itself to be an effect, necessarily per­
ceives the intelligent Cause which produced
it. “ It is a very evident thing,” says Des­
cartes again, “ that there must be at least as
much reality in a cause as in the effect it
produces; and since I am a thing that thinks,
* T. it. p. 10. f T. Lp. 290.
62
whatsoever be in fact the cause of my being,
I am compelled to confess, that it also is
something that thinks.” *
Hitherto I have considered Gall’s philosophy
only under its speculative points of view ;
what would it be, if considered in a practical
relation ?
In one of his happy moments, Diderot wrote
the following very remarkable phrase: “ The
ruin of liberty overthrows all order and all
government, confounds vice and virtue to­
gether, sanctions every monstrous infamy,
extinguishes all shame and all remorse, and
degrades and deforms without recovery the
whole human race.” t
Nothing astonishes a phrenologist.
“ Let us imagine,” says Gall, “ a woman in
whom the love of offspring is but little deve­
loped, .. if, unfortunately, the organ of murder
* T. i. p. 287.
f Article “ Liberty,” Diction. Encyclop.
63
be very much developed in her, need we be
surprised if her hand................” * dee.
Organization explains every thing.
u These last named facts show u s/’ says
Gall, “ that this detestable inclination (the
inclination to commit murder) has its source
in a vice of the organization.’^
“ Let those haughty men/’ says he again,
“ who cause nations to be slaughtered by thou-,
sands, know that they do not act of their own
accord, but that Nature herself has filled their
hearts with rago and dostructivenoss.” t
No, indeed! This is not what they must
know; for, thanks be to God, it is not true.
What they ought to know, what they ought
to be told, is, that although Providence has
left to man the power to do evil, he has also
endowed him with the power to do good.
That which ..man ought to know, that which
* T. iii. p. 155. Such phrases cannot be concluded.
tT .u i. p.213. * Ibid. 219.
should be instilled into his' mind and heart is,
that he has a free power, and tljat this power
ought not to be misdirected; and that he who
in his own nature misdirects it, no matter
under what form of philosophy he takes re­
fuge, is a being who degrades his nature.
Under the title of fundamental faculties,
Gall confounds all things together—the pas­
sions, the instinct, the intellectual faculties.
These faculties, which are at the basis of his
whole philosophy, he knows not even how to
denominate them. He calls them instincts,*
inclinations, senses, memories, &c. There is
a memory or sense of things, a memory or
sense of persons, &c. He confounds the in­
stinct that leads certain animals to live in
64
* “This term, instinct, is applicable,” says he, “to all the
fundamental forces.”—1
T. iv. p. 334. And he docs not see
that as to the instincts and the understanding all is contrast.
Upon this diflcrence of instinct and understanding, see my
'work l)e l’lnstinct et de Tlntelligence des Animaux, etc.
Paris, 1845, 2d edit.
65
elevated regions with pride, which is a moral
sentiment in man;* the carnivorous instinct
with courage ;t he believes that conscience,
(which is the soul judging itself,) is nothing
but a modification of a particular sense, the
sense of benevolence, &c4
The hesitation of his mind is visible every
where.
* It is true that this approximation astonishes him. “ The
predilection of animals for elevated places depends," says he,
M
upon the same parts as pride, which is in man a moral senti­
ment! Let the reader imagine the astonishment excited in my
mind by such a phenomenon."—T. iii. 311.
f “ Co-existing with the love of war, it (the carnivorous
instinct) constitutes the intrepid warrior.”—T. iii. p. 258. MI
know a head which, as to the organ of munlor, approaches that
of Madeline Albert, and the la Bouhours, except only that
nature has executed it upon a grander scale. To witness
suffering, is for this person to have the keenest enjoyment.
Whoever does not love blood, is in his eyes contemptible."—
T. iii p. 259. The pen refuses to transcribe such things,
which fortunately, however, are pure extravagances.
$4
1From my reflections it follows that conscience is nothing
but a modification, an affection of the moral senso," (organ.)—
T. iv. p. 210. 4
4From all that I have said as to conscience, it
follows that it can by no means be regarded as a fundamental
quality: that it is really only an affection of the moral sense—
or benevolence."—T. iv. p. 217.
5
66
“ I leave it to the reader,” says he, “ to
decide' whether the fundamental faculty to
which this penchant relates, should be deno­
m inated sense of elevation, self-esteem,” &c.*
“ To speak correctly,” continues he, “ firm­
ness is neither a penchant nor a faculty$ it is
a mode-of-being, which gives to a man a dis­
tinctive quality, which is called character.” t
Finally, he writes the following paragraph,
perhaps the most singular one that he ever
wrote, for it shows in the clearest manner
how little confidence he had in his own
psycology.
“ If we are materialists because we do not
admit the existence of a unit-faculty of the
soul, but recognise several primitive faculties,
we ask whether the ordinary division of the
faculties of the soul into understanding, will,
attention, memory, judgment, imagination, and
* T. iii. p. 321. t T. iv. p. 272.
67
affections and passions, expresses nothing more
than a primitive unit-faculty ? If it be asserted
that all these faculties are merely modifications
of a sole and same faculty, what can hinder
us from making the same assertion as to the
faculties whose existence we do admit” *
To be sure, nothing prevents you. Or
rather every thing constrains you to do so.
There is therefore one sole faculty, of which
all the other faculties are but moods. You
return then to the common philosophy, and
consequently you no longer possess a peculiar
philosophy.
The problem proposed by Gall is at the
same time physiological, psycological, and
anatomical.
In our first article an account has been
given of GalPs physiologyy and it has been
shown to be generally disproved by direct
* T. ii. p. 287.
68
experiment. In the present one his psycology
has been examined, and it is confuted by the
consciousness (le sens intime). It only re­
mains for us now to examine his anatomy.
in.
OF GALL.
THE ORGANS.
Or all Gall’s writings, his anatomy is that
which has been most talked of, and yet it is
the part least known.
In the year 1808, Gall read to the first class
of the Institute a memoir oh the anatomy of
. *
the brain ;* and M. Cuvier made a report upon
that memoir. But neither in that memoir nor
* Recherches sur le syateme nerveux en gdndral et aur celai
da cerveau en partieolier; memoirs prdsentd k l'lnstitut de
France, le 14 Man, 1808; suivi d’Obeervations sur le rapport
qui en a 6t6 fait k cette compagnie par sea commissures, par
F. J. Gall et G. Spurzheim. Paris, 1809.
70
in the report do we find one word of special
anatomy, of secret anatomy, of what might
be called anatomy o f the Doctrine; or, in
other terms, and as it would be expressed at
the present day, of phrenological anatomy.
The anatomy of Gall’s memoir is nothing
but a very ordinary anatomy. He insists that
the cerebral nerves, all of them without excep­
tion, rise upwards from the medulla oblongata
towards the encephalon; that the cineritious
matter produces the white matter: he divides
the fibres of the brain into divergent and con-
vergent; he supposes that each convolution of
this organ, instead of being a full and solid
mass, as is generally thought, is merely a fold*
of nervous or medullary fibres, &c. &c.
Such are the questions discussed by Gall;
and it is sufficiently clear that, whatever side
* “ The nervous membrane of the brain forms these folds,
which are denominated its convolutions,”—Anat. et Physiol,
du Systdme Nerveux, t iii. p. 82.
71
we take upon these questions, his doctrine
assuredly would neither gain nor lose any
thing.
Whether such or such a nerve ascends or
descends ; whether the white matter is pro­
duced by the gray; or whether, which is, to
say the least, quite as probable, this be non­
sense; whether this or that fibre goes out or
comes in, diverges or converges, &c. &c. the
doctrine of the plurality of brains, the doc­
trine of individual intelligences, will be neither
more nor less true, more nor less doubtful.*
M. Cuvier, in his report, observed: “ It is
essential to repeat, were it merely for the
information of the public, that the anatomical
* Spurzheim justly remarks: M
Admitting that the direction
of the fibres is known, that we know their consistence to be
greater or less, that their colour is more or less white, that their
magnitude is more or less considerable, dec. what conclusions
can we, from all these circumstances, draw as to their funo*
tions 1 None at all.”—Obscr. sur la Phr6nologie, ou la con*
naissance de 1
’homme moral et intellcctuel fondde sur lee
fonctions du Systems Nerveux, p. 83. Paris, 1818.
.• *s
72
questions we have been considering, have no
immediate and necessary connexion with the
physiological doctrines taught by M. Gall, as
to the functions and relative volume of dif­
ferent parts of the brain; and that all that we
have inquired into as to the structure of the
brain, might be either true or false, without
affording the least conclusion in favour of or
against the doctrine.” *
It is necessary not to make any mistake
as to the real point of the question. Gall’s
doctrine goes to establish one and only one
thing, to wit, the plurality o f intelligences
and the plurality o f brains.t That is what
constitutes the special and peculiar doctrine;
* Rapport sur un Mdmoire de MM. Gall et Spurzheim, rd-
latif l’anat du ccrveau. Stances dcs 25 Avril et 2 Mai, 1808.
I *
*The determination of the fundamental forces and the
seat of their organs constitutes the most striking portion of my
discoveries. The knowledge of the primary facilities and
qualities, and the seat of their material conditions, constitutes
precisely the phrenology of the brain.”—Gall, Anat et Phys.
du 8yst. Nerv., t iii. p. 4.
73
that is to say, different from the common doc­
trine, which admits but one understanding and
a single brain. Whatever goes to prove the
plurality of understandings and brains belongs
to Gall’s doctrine; and whatever does not tend
to prove the plurality of understandings and
brains is in opposition to that doctrine.
Gall’s works then really Contain two very
distinct anatomies: one is a general anatomyy
which has nothing in particular to do with
his doctrine; the other is a special anatomy,
which, supposing it to be true, would consti­
tute the basis of his doctrine.
Now, a great deal has been said about
Gall’s general anatomy; but as to his special
anatomy, I know of no one who has spoken
of it. Gall himself says as little as possible
about it. In other matters he tells his opinions
both very clearly and very positively: in this
particular we are obliged to guess at them.
When Gall, in his jMycology, substitutes the
x . .. .
74
faculties for the understanding, he defines
those faculties. He defines them, as we
have already seen, to be individual intelli­
gences. How happens it, then, that in his
anatomy, when he substitutes the organs of
the brain for the brain itself, he does not
define these organs? How strange! Gall’s
whole doctrine, all phrenology, rests upon the
organs o f the brain; for, without distinct
. Cerebral organs, there can be no independent ,
faculties; and without independent faculties !
there can be no phrenology: and Gall does \
not say, nor has any phrenologist said for 1
him, what is the thing called a cerebral
organ.
The truth is: Gall never had any settled i
opinion upon what he called the organs of the
brain; he never saw those organs, and he ;
I
imagined them for the use of his faculties. j
He did what so many others have done. He
commenced with imagining a hypothesis, and
75
then he imagined an anatomy to suit his
hypothesis.
When the doctrine of animal spirits was
believed, the brain was composed of pipes
and tubes to convey these spirits.
“ The cortical substance which is found in
the hemispheres of the brain,” says Pourfour
du Petit, “ furnishes the whole of the medul­
lary portion, which is a mere collection of an
infinite number of pipes.” *
“ The small arteries of the cortical part of
the brain,” says Haller, “ transmit a spirituous
liquor into the medullary and nervous tubes.”t
It is evident that the organs of Gall have
no more real existence than the pipes of Pojur-
four du Petit, or the tubes of Haller. They
are two structures that have been imagined,
as suitable for two hypotheses.
In searching for the primary idea, the secret
* Lettre d’un M&locin des HOpitaux du Roi. Namur. 1710.
t Elcmenta Physiologic, t iv. p. 384.
76
notion that led Gall to his doctrine of the
plurality q f the intelligences, I detect it in
the analogy that he supposed to exist between
the functions of the senses and the faculties of
the soul.
He sees the functions of the senses con­
stituting distinct functions, and insists that the
faculties of the soul must constitute equally
distinct faculties; he sees each particular sense
possessing an organ proper to itself, and thinks
that each faculty of the soul must have its
proper organ;* in one word, he looks upon
the outer man, and constructs the inner man
after the image of the outer man.
According to Gall, every thing between an
organ of a sense and an organ of a faculty,
between a faculty and sense, is similar. A
* “ But if it be supposed that each fundamental faculty, as
well as each particular sense, is dependent on a particular part
of the brain," dec. Gall, Anat et Phys. du Syst Nerv., t. iii.
p. 392.
77
faculty is a sense. His words are: the memory
or the sense q f things, the memory or the
sense q f persons, the memory or the sense
q f numbers. He talks of the sense q f lan­
guage, the sense q f mechanics, the sense qf
the relations q f colours, &c. & c...
“ As we must admit,” says he, “ five dif­
ferent external senses, since their functions
are essentially different,. . . . . . so we must
agree, after all, to acknowledge the different
faculties and the different inclinations as being
essentially different moral and intellectual
forces, and likewise connected with organic
apparatuses, which are special to each and
independent of each other.” *
“ Who,” says he, “ can dare to say that
sight, hearing, taste, smell, and touch, are
simple modifications of faculties? Who could
dare to derive them from a single and same
• T. It. p. 9.
I
78
source, from a single and same organ? In
the same way, the twenty-seven qualities and
faculties which I recognise as fundamental or
primary forces,. . . . cannot be regarded as the
simple modifications of any one faculty.” *
On the one hand, Gall gives to the faculties
all the independence of the senses; and on the
other, he gives the senses all the attributes of
the faculties.
“ Here,” says he, “ are new reasons why
I have always maintained in my public
discourses, though those assertions are in
opposition to the ideas that prevail among
philosophers, that each organ of a sense pos­
sesses absolutely its own functions; that each
of these organs has its peculiar faculty of
receiving and even of perceiving impressions,
its own conscience, its own faculty of reminis­
cence,”t &c.
* T. iv. p. 9. f T. ii. p. 234.
Gall did not foresee that a physiological
experiment (and a very sure one it is) would
one day demonstrate that the sense receives
the impression hut does not perceive it, and
that, consequently, it is endowed neither with
conscience nor reminiscence, &c.
When the cerebral lobes or hemispheres*
are removed from an animal, the animal im­
mediately loses its sight.
And yet nothing, as regards the eyes them­
selves, has been changed; objects continue to
be depicted upon the retina, the iris retains its
contractility, and the optic nerve its excita­
bility. The retina continues to be sensible of
light, for the iris contracts or dilates according
as the light admitted to it is more or less
intense.
No change has taken place as to the struc­
ture of the eye, and yet the animal does not
79
* The brain, properly so calted.
80
s e e ! Therefore it is not the eye that perceives,
nor is it the eye that sees.*
The eye does not see; it is the understand-
ing that sees by means of the eyes.t
When Gall concludes from the independence
of the external senses to the independence of
the faculties of the soul, he confounds, as to
the sense itself, two things that are essentially
distinct, impression and perception. Impres­
sion is multiple; perception is single.
When the hemispheres are removed, the
animal instantly loses its perception; it no
longer sees nor hears,% &c. notwithstanding
all the organs of the senses, the eye, the ear,
&c. subsist, and the impressions take place.
Therefore the principle that perceives is one.
Lost for one sense, it is lost for all the senses.
* J see with m y eyes.—M.
f See my Rechcrchcs Expcrimentales sur les propri£t£s et
les functions du Systeme Nerveux, 2d edit. 1842.
4 Ibid.
81
And if it be one for the external senses, h o w
can it be other than one for the faculties o f
the soul ?
Gall therefore cannot suppose the existence
of several distinct principles for*the faculties o f
the soul, otherwise than because he supposes
several distinct principles for the perceptions;
and he only supposes several principles for the
perceptions because he confounds impression
with perception. The whole of his psycology
arises from a mistake; and the whole of his
anatomy ,is constructed for the sake of his
psycology.
In psycology he endeavours to prove, that
the faculties of the soul are merely internal
senses; in anatomy, he endeavours to prove
that the organs of the faculties of the soul
only repeat and reproduce the organs of the
external senses.
Now an organ, that is to say, under the
present point of view, the nerve of an external
6
82
sense> is nothing more than a fascicle of
nervous fibres. Therefore the brain, under
the theory, can be nothing but a collection
of fascicles of fibres.*
According to Gall, the origin, the develop­
ment, the structure and mode of termination,
as to the organs of the faculties of the soul
and the organs of the external senses, every
thing is similar, every thing is in common.
And yet the primitive difficulty remains un­
solved.
When I say an organ of the senses, I speak
of a very determinate nervous apparatus. But
is the same thing true when I say an organ of
the brain ? What is an organ of the brain ?
Is it a fascicle of fibres? Is it each particular
fibre ? But if it be a fascicle of fibres, there
are too few of them, for there are not twenty-
seven of them; and twenty-seven are neces-
* See at the end of this work the first Note on Gall’s
Anatomy.
83
sary, for there are twenty-seven faculties. If
it be each particular fibre, then there are too
many of them, and far too many, because
there are only twenty-seven faculties. W hat
are we to do in this difficulty ? We must do
as Gall does: sometimes say it is a fascicle
of fibres; at other times, that it is each fibre
in particular.
In one place he says: “ The brain consisting
of several divisions whose functions are totally
different, there are several primary bundles,
which contribute by their development to pro­
duce it. Among these bundles we place the
anterior and posterior pyramids, the bundles
that come off direct from the corpora olivaria,
and some others that are concealed in the
interior of the medulla oblongata.” *
* T. L p. 271. Spurzheim explains himself in like manner.
“ The organs ofthe internalfaculties are as separate as thebundles
of the nerves of the five senses.”—Observ. sur la Phr^noL, &c.
p. 74. “ It is found that the brain is composed of many bundles,
which must have their functions.”—Ibid. p. 94. M
The organs
84
And there are yet some others; be it so;
but they never can amount to twenty-seven.
Again he says: “ A more extensive develop­
ment of the same conjecture, might perhaps
dispose the reader to consider each nervous
fibrilla, whether in the nerves or in the brain
itself, as a little special organ.”*
Even this is not all. For the sake of Gall’s
doctrine, the anatomy of the brain must have
a, connexion with cranioscopy; /And Gall
takes great care to place all his organs upon
the surface of the brain.
“ The possibility of a solution of the pro­
blem under consideration,” says he, *
*supposes
the organs of the soul to be situated at the
surface of the brain.” t Indeed, were they
not situated at the surface of the brain, how
. . . . are composed of divergent bundles, of convolutions, and of
the commissures.”—Ibid.
* T. iv. p. 8. “ Bonnet believes, and it is probable, that each
nerve fibre has its own proper action.”—Ibid,
f T. iii. p. 2.
85
j could the cranium bear the impression o f
j them? and what would become of cranios-
1 copy?
Cranioscdpy has nothing to fear. Gall has
made provision for it; aU the organs of the
brain are placed at the surface of the brain;
and Gall most judiciously adds, “ This ex­
plains the relation or the correspondence that
exists between craniology and the doctrine of
the cerebral functions (cerebral physiology),
the sole aim and end of my researches.” *
But as to the pretended organs o f the brain,
are they really situated at the surface of the
brain, as Gall asserts ? In plain terms, is the
surface of the brain the only active part of
the organ? Here is a physiological experi­
ment that shows how very much mistaken
Gall is.
You can slice off a considerable portion of
* T. iii. p. 4.
86
a n anim al’s brain, either in front, behind, on *
o n e side, or on the top, without his losing any
o n e o f his faculties.*
T h e animal may, therefore, lose all that Gall
c a lls surface of the brain, without losing any
o f h is faculties. Therefore it cannot be that
th e organs of the faculties reside at the surface
o f the brain.
. A nd comparative anatomy is not less oppo­
s ite to Gall’s opinions than is direct experi­
m e n t itself. I shall not follow him here in the
d e ta il of his localizations. How could these
localizations have any meaning? He does
n o t even know whether an organ is a fascicle
o f fibres, or a fibre,t
For example; he places what he calls the
* 8ee my Rechcrches Expdrimcntales sur Ics proprietes et
lc s fonctions du Systcmc Ncrveux, 2d edit. 1842. See also the
first article of this work.
■
J
- It must, however, be one or the other; for it must be some­
thing. Might it be a convolution, as has been since said 1 But
there are not seven and twenty convolutions, dec. &c.
87
•instinct of propagation in the cerebellum, and
what he calls the instinct c f the love of
offspring, in the posterior cerebral lobes; and
he looks upon these two localizations as the
very surest in his book.
“ I should wish,” says he, u that all young
naturalists might begin their researches with
the study of these two organs. They are both
easily to be recognised,” * &c.
What! The cerebellum, so different in its
structure from the great brain, is the cere­
bellum, like the brain,t to be considered an
organ of instinct ? And what is more, is it to
be regarded as the organ of a single instinct
•T .iL p . 163.
f Gall, as we have seen, confounds understanding with
instinct Literally, he divides understanding into many in*
stincts, and then out of each instinct constructs an intellectual
faculty. See the second article of this work. “ The term
instinct suits all the fundamental faculties.”—T. iv. p. 334.
For the characters peculiar to the instincts, see my work
entitled "De l’lnstinct et de Intelligence des Animaux,” 2d
edit 1845.
88
only, while the brain shall have twenty-six of
them ?
I have already said that the cerebellum is
the seat of the principle that presides over
the locomotion* of the animal, and that it is
not the scat of any instinct.
Gall places the love of offspring in the pos­
terior lobes of the brain.t Now, the love of
offspring, and especially maternal love, is
every where to be found among the superior
anim als; it is found in all the mummifera,
in all the birds.{ Tlio posterior lobes of the
brain, therefore, ought to be found in all these
beings. Not at all: tho posterior lobes are
wanting in most of tho mnmmifcra; they are
wanting in all tho birds.
Gall locates the faculties that aro common to
* 8co my Recherche* Expcrimentalcs sur les proprieties et
lec fonctions du Systeme Nervoux, 2d edit 1842.
f "The organ of philogcniture, or the lost convolution of tho
cerebral lobes.”—Spurzhcim, Obscr. sur la Phren., dee. p. 117.
4 With very fewexceptions.
89
both man and animals, in the posterior part
of the brain; in the anterior part he places
those* that are peculiar to man alone. Accord­
ing to this plan, the most persistent portion o f
the brain will be the posterior portion, and the
least persistent the anterior portion. But the
inverse of the proposition holds. The parts
that are most frequently wanting are the pos­
terior parts, and those that are most invariably
present are the anterior partsA
If, from the brain, I pass on to consider the
cranium, all the foregoing is found to be of
* “ The qualities and faculties common to man and animals,
aro situated in tho posterior portions,” dec.—T. iii. p. 79, and
t iv. p. 13. “ Tho qualities and faculties that man exclusively
enjoys, aro situated in the cerebral portions, of which the brute
creation is deprived; and we must consequently seek for them
in tho antcro superior portion of the frontal bone.”—T. iii.
page 79.
t “ The anterior parts of the brain are not wanting in the
mammifera, but the posterior parts,” says Leuret, very justly,
in bis fino work on the circumvolutions of the brain, entitled,
Anat. Compar. du Syst Nervcux, consider^ dans, ses rapports
avec rintolligcnce, t. i. p. 588. Paris, 1839.
90
still greater force. How can the localizations
th at are destitute of meaning as to the brain
— h o w can they, I say, have any meaning as
relative to the cranium itself?
T h e cranium, especially the external surface
of it, represents the superficial configuration
of the brain but very imperfectly. Gall knows
it. “ I was the first,” says he, “ to maintain
th a t it is impossible for us to determine with
exactitude the development of certain circum­
volutions, by the inspection of the external
surface of the cranium. In certain cases, the
exterior lamina of tho cranium is not parallel
w ith tho internal lamina.” * "There are cer­
tain species in which there is no frontal
sinus; in others, the cells betwixt the two
bony lamina) are found throughout the whole
skull,”t &c. &c.
The cranium represents the convolutions of
* T. iii. p. 20. t T. iii. p. 26.
91
the brain only upon its inner surface; it does
not represent them upon its external super­
ficies. And as to the fibres, as to the bundles
o f fibres, it does not even represent them on
its inner surface; for the fibres are covered
with a layer of gray matter, and the bundles
of fibres are situated in the interior of the
nervous mass.
Gall is aware of all this, and nevertheless
he inscribes his twenty-seven faculties upon
the skulls.* Such confidence surprises one.
Nothing is known of the intimate structure of
* It is curious to see how M. Vimont, a very decided phreno­
logist as well as an able anatomist, expresses himself on the
subject of the l o c a liz a ti o n s of Gall and 8punheim. “ Gall’s
work," says M. Vimont, “ is fitter to lead into error than to
give a just idea of the seats of the organs.”—Traits de Phrdn.
t. ii. p. IS. “ Gall says he has remarked, that horses whose ears
are widely separated at the roots, are sure-footed and courageous.
Possibly the fact may be true; but I cannot comprehend the
connexion that may exist betwixt the outward mark and the
quality of courage, whose seat, in the horse, Gall indicates at a
point where there is no .brain.”—Ibid. 281. “ Spurzheim indi­
cates the region of the frontal sinuses as the seat of gentleness,
while courage is located upon the muscles that go to be inserted
on the os occipitis.”—Ibid. p. 117. Such are M. Vimont’s
92
the brain,* and yet people are bold enough
to trace upon it their circumscriptions, their
circles, their boundaries. The external sur­
face of the skull does not represent the brain’s /
remarks, jet this same M. Vimont inscribes the following
twenty-nine names on the skull of a goose!
1. Conservation.
2. Choice of aliment.
3. Destruction.
4. Cunning.
Courage.
6. Choice of locality.
7. Concentration.
8. Attachment to life, or
marriage.
9. Attachment
10. Reproduction.
I t . Attachment to the pro*
duct of conception.
12. Property.
13. Circumspection.
15. Configuration.
16. Extent
17. Distance.
18. Geometrical sense.
19. Resistance.
20. Localities.
21. Order.
22. Time.
23. Language.
24. Eventuality.
25. Construction.
26. Musical talent
27. Imitation.
28. Comparison.
29. Gentleness.
14. Perception of substance.
*
*All this upon the cranium of a goose!” says M. Leuret
upon this occasion, (page 355.) And there is no place so-
small but it is occupied.. . . . . . The faculties are so crowded,”
adds he, “ that it would be a marvellous thing to be able to
write their names upon the brain........... It would be a greater
marvel to discover them.”
* Gall himself says: “ In whatever region we examine the
two substances that compose the brain, it is with difficulty that
we can discern any difference between them as to their struc­
ture, dec.”—T. iiL p. 70.
93
surface, it is admitted; and yet they inscribe
upon this surface twenty-seven names, each of
which names is written within a small circle,
each little circle corresponding to one precise
«
.faculty! And what is stranger yet, people
are to be found who, under each of these
names inscribed by Gall, imagine that there
is concealed something more than a name!
.JThose who, seeing the success of Gall’s doc­
trine, imagine that the doctrine therefore rests
upon some solid foundation, know very little
of mankind. Gall knew mankind better. He
studied them in his own way, but he studied
them very closely. Let us hear his own words:
“ In society, I employ many expedients to
find out the talents and inclinations of people.
I start the conversation upon a variety of
topics. In general, we let fall in conversation
whatsoever has little or no concern with our
faculties and penchants; but when the inter­
locutor touches upon one of our favourite
94
V
subjects, we at once become interested in it...
D o you wish to spy out the character of a
person, without the fear of being misled as to
your conclusions, even though he might be
on his guard ? Set him to talking about his
childhood and boyhood; make him relate his
schoolboy exploits; his conduct towards his
parents, his brothers and sisters, and his play­
fellows, and his emulators.. . . Ask him about
his games, &c. Few persons think it neces­
sary to dissemble upon these points; they
do not suspect they are dealing with one
who knows perfectly well that the basis of
character remains ever the same; and that
the objects only that interest us change with
the progress of years............Besides, when I
discover what it is that a person admires or
despises; when I see him.act; when he is an
author, and I merely read his book, &c. &c.
the whole man stands unveiled before me.” *
* T. iii. p. 63.
95
Descartes shut himself up in a stove,* in
order that he might meditate. According to
Gall, there is no necessity for one’s shutting
himself up in a stove.
Descartes says: “Now I shall shut my eyes,,
I shall stop my ears, I shall turn my senses
aside; I shall even efface from my memory
every image of corporeal objects, or at least,
as that can hardly be done, I will repute them
as vain and false; and thus, shut up within
myself, and contemplating what is within me,
1 shall endeavour gradually to become more
and more familiarly acquainted with my own
real nature.” t
According to Gall, there is no occasion for
this absolute gathering ono’s self, together
within. All that is needful is to look at
and touch the skulls of people. Gall’s doc­
trine succeeded just as Lavater’s did. Men
* “ I remained a whole day shut up in an oven.”—'T. L 133.
f T. i. p. 263.
96
I
w ill always be looking out for external signs
by which to discover secret thoughts and con­
cealed inclinations: it is vain to confound their
curiosity upon this point: after Lavatercame
G a ll; after Gall some one else will appear.
W e soon become wearied of a true philo­
sophy, because it is true; because the search
after truth, of whatsoever kind, requires
strenuous and continual efforts. It is impos­
sible, moreover, always to have the very same
philosophy: even the same philosopher cannot
be always approved of. Approbation must
change its object, especially in France.
It was for the French that Fontenelle wrote
these words: wThe approbation of mankind
is a sort of forced state, which seeks nothing
so much as to come to an end.” *
Descartes goes off to die in Sweden, and
Gall comes to reign in France.
* Elogo de Tournofort,
IV.
OP SPURZHEIM.
Spurzheim published two works; the first
of which is entitled, “ Observations sur la
Phrdnologie, ou la connaissance de l’homme
moral ct intellectual, fondee sur les fonctions
du systeme nerveux the title of the second'
is, “ Essai philosophique sur la nature morale
et intcilcctuelle de Phomme ;” t and these two
works arc merely a reproduction of the doc-*
* Ono volume, 8vo. Paris, 1818. Phrenology is the very
name given by Spurzheim to tho doctrino of Gall,
f Ono volumo, 8vo. Paris, 1820.
7
98
trin e of Gall. Spurzheim makes Gall’s book
o v e r again—tho samo book that they com­
menced together—and abridges it.
Spurzheim tells us how he heard Gall, and
having heard him, felt himself drawn to par­
ticipate in his labours, and propagate his
doctrine.
‘‘In 1800, I attended for the first time a
course of lectures which M. Gall had from
time to time repeated at Vienna for four years.
Ho spoke then of the necessity there was
for a brain to give out the manifestations of
tho soul; and of the plurality of organs;. . . .
but he had not as yet begun to examine into
the structure of the brain.* From the very
first, I found myself much attracted by tho
doctrine of the brain; and from the period of
my first attention to that subject to tho present
moment, 1 liavo nover lost sight of it as an*
* Obaorv, nur la l'Urcnol. &c. p. 8.
99
objoct of study. After finishing my studies in
1800, I joined M. Gall, in order to pursue in
a special manner tho anatomical part of the
researches.* In 1805, we left Vienna for the .
purpose of travelling together; from which
time, up to the year 1813, we made our
observations in common,” &c.t
In fact, the two authors, uniting their
labours, first published, in 1808, their fine
memoir upon the anatomy of the brain,t and
subsequently, in 1810 and 1812, the two first
volumes of Gall’s great work.§
In tho year 1813 they separated, and that
separation even proved useful. Gall, when
writing independently, has a freer movement
Had he continued united with Spurzheim, he
* Obscrv. Bur la Phron. p. SO.
f Ibid. p. 32.
i Koch, eur lo Syst. Norv. on gdndral, dec. par F. J. Gall «t
G. Spurzheim.
%Anftt. et Phys. du Syst. Nervcux, dec., tho work which hoi
boon oxuminod in tho tliroo preceding articles.
100
either would not have written the last chapter
o f his fourth volume, or he would have written
it very differently, and we should not have
obtained the definite expression of his doctrine.
That chapter, entitled “ Philosophy of Man,”
is Gall’s philosophy entire. It is in that chapter
th at he says what he does understand by facul­
ties, by understanding, by will, &c. &c. and
it is there that he defines the faculties of the
individual understandings;* understanding, a
simple attribute of each faculty;t will, a
simple result of the simultaneous action of
superior faculties, &c4
Spurzheim never would have imagined the
doctrine: he found it already concocted; he
follows it, and in doing so, always hesitates,
lie did not imagine it; and perhaps never
could have had the facilities enjoyed by Gall
for carrying it successfully into the world.
• T. iv. p. 341. f Ibid. p. 327.
i Ibid. p. 341.
Gall’s mind was full of address. We have
seen his method of studying men.* In his
great work there is a dominant tone of p h i­
losophy ; for the doctrine was already esta­
blished at the period of the publication of th at
work. When the doctrine was inchoate, Gall’s
tone was not quite so grave, for it is above
all things necessary to awaken the public
curiosity, and the philosophic tone does not
answer for that purpose.
Charles Villers has preserved some of his
souvenirs, touching the first impressions pro­
duced by the doctrine.t “ If,” writes Gall at
the period in question, “ the exterminating
angel was under my orders, wo to Kscstner,
to Kant, to Wieland, and others like them.. ..
Why is it, that no one has ever preserved
* In the preceding article, p. 93.
■
j*Lettre de Charles Villers k Georges Cuvier, sur une
nouvelle thdorie du cerveau, par le Docteur Gall, dec. Metz,
102
for our times, the skulls of Homer, Virgil,
Cicero, &c. ?” *
“ At one time,” says Charles Villers, “ every
body in Vienna was trembling for his head,
an d fearing that after his death it would be
p u t in requisition to enrich Dr. Gall’s cabinet,
lie announced his impatience as to the skulls
o f extraordinary persons—such as were distin­
guished by certain great qualities or by great
talents—which was still greater cause for the
general terror. Too many people were led to
suppose themselves the objects of the doctor’s
regards, and imagined their heads to be espe-
. cially longed for by him, as a specimen of the
Utmost importance to the success of his ex­
periments. Some very curious stories are told
on this point. Old M. Denis, the Emperor’s
librarian, inserted a special clause in his will,
intended to save his cranium from M. Gall’s
scalpfel.” t
* Lettre de Charles Villers, &c. p. 34. f Ibid.
103
Gall and Spurzheim differ from each other
upon several points:* upon the offices of the
external senses; upon the names of the facul­
ties of the soul j upon their number; and upon
the classification of the faculties, &c. L et
us examine a few of the points more p ar­
ticularly.
1. Offices o f the external senses. “ M. Gall
is disposed,” says Spurzheim, “ to attribute to
the external senses, as well as to each and
every internal faculty, not only perception,
but also memory, reminiscence, and judgment.
. . . . It seems to me that such facts (the facts
cited by Gall) do not prove the conclusion.
In the first place, memory, being nothing more
than the repetition of knowledge, must have
its seat in the point where perception takes
place. The impressions of the nerves that
give rise to the sensation of hunger* &c. are
indisputably perceived in the head, which
likewise has the reminiscence of hunger..........
104
I do not believe we can conclude that the eyes
or the ears are the seats of reminiscence.” *
Spurzheim is right, as we have sufficiently
seenjt perception is not in the organ of the
sense.
But the error that Spurzheim combats is not
the whole of Gall’s error; it is only a particu­
lar and secondary error:% the error that he
does not perceive, the error that he follows, is
a general and capital one. From the inde­
pendence of the external senses, Gall concludes
the independence of the faculties of the soul:
he reasons upon an apparent analogy, which
conceals a profound dissimilitude; and Spurz­
heim reasons just as Gall does.
“ In the nervous system/’ says he, “ we
find the five external senses separate and
* Observ. sur la Phrdn., &c. p. 10.
f Especially in the last article.
$ And which was not taken up by Gall, except from the
necessity he was under of assimilating at all points the external
senses with the faculties of the soul.
105
independent of each other.” * (i The faculties
of the external senses are attached to different
organs; they may exist separately. The same
holds true of the internal senses.” t “ W e
assert that there is a particular organ for
each species of sentiment or thought, as there
is for each species of exterior sensation.” !
Like Gall, Spurzheim denominates the facul­
ties of the soul internal senses; in the same
spirit he says: “ The sense o f colour, the
sense o f number, sense o f language, sense o f
comparison, sense o f causality &c. &c. •
Both authors begin by calling the faculties
of the soul internal senses; and then, misled
by the word, they conclude from the indepen­
dence of the external senses, to the indepen­
dence of their internal senses,* that is to say,
the independence of the faculties of the soul.
* Observ. sur la Phren., &c. p. 65. f Ibid. p. 67.
i Ibid. p. 75.
§ See particularly the Essai philosophique sur la morale et
intellectuelle de l’homme, p. 54, et seq.
106
2. Names of the faculties. Spurzheim ac­
cuses Gall of having given denominations only
to actions, and not to the principles of those
actions.
“ Finding,” says he, “ a relation betwixt
the development of a cerebral part and a
sort of action, M. Gall denominated the cere­
bral part from the action; thus, lie spoke of
the organs of music, poetry, &c.” * “ The
nomenclature,” says he further, “ ought to
be conformed to the faculties, without regard
to any action whatever.. . . When we attribute
to an organ cunning, management, hypocrisy,
intrigue, &c. we do not make known the
primary faculty which contributes to all these
modified actions.”t
Gall replies: “ M. Spurzheim cannot have
forgotten how often we reasoned without end,
with a view to determine the primitive desti-
* Obscw. sur la Phren. p. 17. f Ibid. p. 127.
107
nation of an organ.. . . . I confess, that there
are several organs, with whose primary facul­
ties I am not yet acquainted $ and I continue
to denominate them from the degree of activity
that led me to the discovery of them. M.
Spurzheim thinks himself more fortunate: his
metaphysical temperament has led him to the
discovery of the fundamental or primitive
faculty of every one of the organs. Let us
put it to the proof.” *
Indeed, Spurzheim’s expedient for render­
ing himself master of the primary faculties is
very simple. He creates a word: he calls the
instinct of propagation amativity, the pro­
pensity to steal, convoitivity; courage is com-
bativity, &c. &c.
Gall and Spurzheim talk a great deal about
nomenclature j but they do not perceive, that
as to nomenclature, the first difficulty, and
* Anat. et Phys. du Syst. Nerv., dec. t iii. p. 19. This
volume came out the same year as Spurzheim’s Observ., dec.
108
indcod the only ono, is to got at simple facts.
Whoever has como to simple facts, is very
nigh to a good nomenclature.
Descartes says: “ Ilad some one clearly
explained the simple ideas that exist in the
imagination of men, and which constitute all
that they think, I should venture to hope for
a language that it would be very easy to
learn,. . . . and, which is the principal matter,
that would assist the judgment, representing to
it things so distinctly that it would be almost
impossible for it to be deceived; whereas, on
the contrary, the words we now have possess,
so to speak, only confused significations, to
which the human mind has been so long ac­
customed, that it therefore understands scarcely
any thing perfectly well.” *
3. Number of the faculties. Spurzheim
adds eight faculties to those established by
* T. iv. p. 07.
109
Gall, and Gall is voxod by it. Ono does not
see why.
W hat! Shall Gall endow twenty-seven
faculties, and Spurzhcim not have the same
privilege for seven or eight ?# Shall Gall have
a faculty for space, one for number, &c. and
Spurzheim be refused one for time, one for
extent, &c.? Is not Spurzheim half right,
when he says:
“ One does not readily perceive why M. Gall
should desire to suggest to his readers that his*
* The eight organs added by Spurzheim, aro the organs of
habitativity, order, lime, right, supcrnaturality, hope, extent,
weight. Gall's remarks upon these eight organs proposed by
Spurzheim arc as follows: “ M. Spurzheim, it is true, recog­
nises eight organs more than I admit. As to the organs of
habitativity, order, time, and supcrnaturality, I have already
spoken. I admit an organ of the moral sense, or sense of
right ( j u s t e ), but I have very strong reasons for believing
that benevolence is nothing more than a very strong manifesta­
tion of the moral sense; therefore I treat theso two organs
under the rubric of a singlo organ. What M. Spurzheim
says on the organs of hope, of extent, and of weight, has
not as yet convinced mo: and, in fact, ho has hitherto provod
nothing in respect to them."—T. iii. p. 25. '
110
method of treating the doctrine of the brain
is the only admissible one, and that there arc
no other organs than those lie has recognised;
that the organs do nothing but what he attri­
butes to them; . , . . that all he says and all
he does (and that only) bears the stamp of
perfection; and that his decision constitutes
tho supreme law.” *
4. Classification and attributes o f the
faculties. Gall, by giving the same attributes
to all the faculties, and to each faculty all the
! attributes of the understanding, in fact forms
; out of the faculties only two groups: the group
of faculties that he supposes common to man
; and the animals, and the group of faculties
that he supposes to be proper to man alone.
Spurzheim divides and subdivides them.
None of the formulas required for the clas­
sification agreed upon are omitted.t
* Essai Philosophiquc, &c. p. 216.
f See the Essai Philosophiquc, &c. p. 47, et seq.
i
Ill
In the first place, there are two orders of
faculties; the affective and tho intellectual
faculties; then each of these orders is divided
into genera. The first order has two genera:
the affective faculties common to man and
animals,* and the afTectivo faculties peculiar
to man alone.t The second has three genera:
the faculties or internal senses which make
external objects known the faculties or
internal senses which make known the rela­
tions of objects in general;§ and the faculties
or internal senses that reflect.^
* The sense of Amativity, the sense of Philogeniture, the
sense of Dcstructivity, the sense of Afiectivity, the sense of
Thievishness, the sense of Sccretivity, the sense of Circum­
spection, the sense of Approbation, the sense of Self-love.
(What a chaos, and what words!)
t The sense of Benevolence, the sense of Veneration, the
sense of Firmness, the sense of Duty, the sense of Hope, the
sense of the Marvellous, the sense of Ideality, the sense of
Gaiety, the sense of Imitation.
i The sense of Individuality, of Extent, of Configuration, of
Consistence, of Weight, of Colour.
§ The sense of Localities, of Numeration, of Order, of
Phenomena, of Time, of Method, of Artificial Language.
| The sense of Comparison, the sense of Causality.
112
What an apparatus for saying very simple
things; for saying that there are propensi­
ties* sentimentsJ and intellectual faculties/
What singular personification of all these
faculties: faculties that know; faculties that
reflcct!t Spurzheim elsewhere speaks of
happy faculties.§ Indeed, what arbitrariness
in the distribution of facts! And Gall, too,
is he not half right?
“ By what right,” says he, u does M. Spurz­
heim exclude from the intellectual faculties
imitation, wit, ideality or poetry, circumspec­
tion, secretivity, constructivity ? How are per­
severance, circumspection, imitation; how are*
*
*
§
* “ Some of the affective faculties produce only a desire, an
inclination. . • • I shall call them propensities.*’—Observ. sur la
Phrenol., &c. p. 124.
f “ Other affective faculties are not restricted to a simple
inclination, but something beyond; which is what is called
sentiment or feeling.”—Ibid.
i “ The intellectual faculties are also double: some of them
know; others reflect.”—Essai Philosophiquc, &c. p. 225.
§ “ The faculties peculiar to man arc happy in themselves,
per sc.”—Ibid. p. 167.
113
they sentiments? What reason have we for
counting among the propensities construc-
tivity rather than melody, benevolence, or
imitation ?*
Gall, by endowing each faculty with all the.
attributes of an understanding, makes as many
understandings as faculties. Spurzheim makes
several kinds of understandings: understand­
ings that know, understandings that reflect,
&c. He restores the sensitive and rational
souls.
In fine, Gall and Spurzheim rarely agree
as to their faculties. In hope Gall sees nothing
more than an attribute 5Spurzheim beholds it
as a primary faculty. In conscience Ga.Il sees
nothing but an effect of benevolence; Spurz­
heim looks upon it as a peculiar faculty.
Gall resolves that there is only one organ of
religion, and Spurzheim insists upon three—
* Anat et Phys. da 8yst Nerv. dec. t iii. p. 27.
8
f
the organ of causality, that of supernaturality,
and that of veneration, &c. &c.
W e should never end, were we to follow
them throughout their debates. I have said
enough to show the case, and I now pass
on to Broussais.
114
]
OF BROUSSAIS.
Broussais appears to have been born solely
for the purpose of imagining or propagating
systems.
Guided by facts which he seized upon with
a rare sagacity, Broussais begins by bringing
back certain affections to their real seats;*
but soon, by an immoderate generalization of
this fine result, he perceives all affections in
the same affection, all diseases in the same
V.
* See his Histoire des Phlegmas. Chron. 1808.
116
malady; he imagines one abstract affection,
by means of which he explains all other
affections: fevers are nothing but irritations
of the digestive apparatus; insanity is nothing
but an irritation of the brain ;* and he who
is so intolerant of the personifications pro­
posed by others, makes ono personification
moro; in fine, his exclusive and headstrong
genius carries him beyond himself, and, as if
merely to aniuso him after the fatigue of form­
ing his systems, plunges him into the question
of phrenology, where he enjoys himself so
much the more, because he finds in it his
own accustomed method, his own ideas, and
his own language: there are plenty of faculties
to bring back to their organs, plenty of locali­
zations to establish.
Broussais ought not to be judged of by his
“ Cours de Phr<5nologie.” t Tho five or six
.* See his work entitled, “ De l’lrritation et de la Folio," 1828.
I Cours de Phrenologie, 1 vol. 8vo. 1836.
117
first lessons, or, as he calls them, generalities,*
are merely a confused mixture of ideas: the
notions of Condillac rejected by Cabanis, and
the ideas of the phrenologists.
He says that sensibility is the. common
origin of the faculties ;t he calls perception
a primary faculty,X &c. &c.; and Condillac
would not speak differently.
But, on the other hand, he says that there
are as many memories as there are organs ;§
that the instincts and the sentiments possess
a memory, as the external perceptions|| have
theirs; that the mind is the sum o f the facul­
ties,^ &c.; and Gall could not say it more
clearly.
* Cours do Phrdnologio, p. 82.
f Ibid. p. 140.
* Ibid. p. 37.
% “ Memory is not an isolated faculty; and there are as many
memories as organs.”—p. 131.
1 “ The instincts and the sentiments have a memory as well
as the external perceptions.”—p. 36.
1 “ . . . . The study of the human mind, not indeed that o f a
118
Broussais is particularly opposed to the moi
of Descartes. u Seduced,” says he, “ by the
moi of Descartes, philosophers have been led
to reason according to the testimony of their
consciousness... And according to what
testimony docs Broussais think they ought to
reason ?
He thinks it very funny to call the moi an
intra-cranial entity,\ intra-cranial central
bcingyt person par excellence, &c.§
He laughs at the moi of Descartes; he
forgets that the moi of Gall is either no­
thing else than the sum (ensemble) of the
intellectual faculties, or nothing else than a
word; and he makes for himself a peculiar
fictitious one bearing this mysterious appellation, but of the
e n s e m b l e of the mental faculties of man.”—p. 82.
• Page 48.
f “ The favorers of tho intra-cranial entity.”—p. 153.
$ “ Their central intra-cranial being, to which they attribute
all their faculties.”
§ “ Suppose they had called this being p e r s o n p a r e x c e l ­
l e n c e • . . . -™
*p*75.
119
mot,* which he locates in the organ of com­
parison. MWe owe,” says he, “ to the organ
of general comparison the distinction of one
person expressed by the sign me.” t
Broussais was never designed for compliance
with the ideas of others; a yoke oppresses
him; he is never truly Broussais, except in
the midst of conflict. In 1816 he publishes a
volume,X and the medical doctrines are shook
* Let us examine, as to this particular (mot) mb, all Brous-
sais's v a r i o r u m s . In one place the m e comes from only one
organ—tho organ of general comparison: “ We owe to the
organ of general comparison the distinction of our person
expressed by tho sign me.”—Cours do Phr6n., p. 684. Furthor
on it comes from two—tho organ of comparison and the organ
of causality: “ The organ of causality is as necessary to the
distinction of the me, and of the p e r s o n , as.the organ of general
comparison.”—Ibid. p. 685. Next there is no organ at all:
“ To assign to tho m e a special organ appears to mo to bo out
of tho question.”—Ibid. p. 119, And then it comes from every
where: “ There is no special and central organ, and our
perception of oursolvcs has for its basis tho sensitive percep­
tions.”—Ibid. p. 119.
f Cours de Phrenologre, p. 684.
$ Examcn do la Doctrine Medicate, etc. 1816.
120
for half a century: we ought to read that
volume over again, and forget the “ Cours
de Phrdnologie.”
VI.
BROUSSAIS’S PSYCHOLOGY.
T he fact is, Broussais is busier with his
own opinions than with what Gall thought 5
and here is a specimen of his way of think­
ing: “ The understanding and its different
manifestations are,” says he, “ the phenomena
of the nervous actions.” * “ The faculties/*
says he further, “ are the actions of the mate­
rial organs,” t &c.
* Cours de Phonologic, p. 717.
f Cours de PhOnologic, p. 77. He also says,M
Their central
intra-cranial being, to which they attribute all. the faculties of a
122
Broussais’s whole psycology is contained in
these words. The organ, and the phenome­
non produced by the organ. To speak more
clearly, the organ and the action of the
organ. To speak like Cabanis, the organ
and the secretion of the organ, or thought *
That’s all!
The understanding, therefore, is merely a
phenomenon, a. product, an act. But if this
be the case, how can there be a continuity
man, is not cognisable by any of our senses,. . . it is therefore a
pure hypothesis.”—Ibid. p. 153. Thus there is no m i n d (pure
hypothesis); nof a c u l t i e s but those of the o r g a n s (the faculties
are the acts of m a t e r i a l o r g a n s ) ; no understanding, except as
a simple phenomenon of the nervous action (understanding
and all its manifestations arc p h e n o m e n a o f n e r v o u s a c t i o n );
consequently, there is no psycology ; there is nothing but phy­
siology ; and even (for it should be clearly understood) nothing
but Droussnis’s physiology.
* “ In order to form for one’s self a just notion of the opera­
tions which result in the production of thought, it is necessary
to conceive of tho brain as a peculiar organ, specially designed
for the production thereof, just as the stomach is designed to
cfTect digestion, the liver to form the bile, &c.”—Cabanis,
Rapports du Physique et du moral de l’hommc, IIe me-
moire, § viu
123
o f the men? Now, the consciousness which
gives me the unity of the mot, gives me
not less assuredly the continuity of the mot,
Descartes* admirable words are: *
*I find that
there is in us an intellectual memory,”*
The consciousness tells me that I am one,
and Gall insists that I am multiple; the con­
sciousness tells me I am free, and Gall avers
that there is no moral liberty; the conscious­
ness endows me with the continuity of my
* Whence he concludes still more admirably, to the immor*
tality of the soul. “ I cannot,'* says he, “conceive otherwise
of those who die, than that they pass into a more pleasing and
tranquil lifo than ours, even carrying with them the remem­
brance of the past: for I find thcro is within us an intellectual
memory........And although religion touches us many things
upon this subject, I must, notwithstanding, confess my infirmity
on this point, which it appears to mo that I possess in common
with most people, which is, that although wo might wish to
believe, and even might suppose ourselves to be firm believers
in the doctrines of religion, we are not so deeply touched with
those things that are taught by faith alone, and which our mere
reason cannot attain, as by those that are instilled into us by
natural and very evident reasons."—T. viii. p. 684.
124
understanding, but Cabanis and Broussais tell
me that my understanding is nothing but
an act.
Philosophers will talk.
VII.
BROUSSAIS’S PHYSIOLOGY.
The whole of Broussais’s physiology is
founded upon irritation. He says, “ Irrita­
tion constitutes the basis of the physiological
doctrine.” * But what is irritation ? Broussais
replies: “ It is the exaggeration of contrac­
tility.” ! But then, what is contractility?
In Haller, the term irritability (for that is
his term for contractility) possesses a precise
meaning and import. Irritability is a pro-
* De l’lmitation et de la Folio, p. 4.
| “ The exaggeration of the phenomena of contractility is
what constitutes irritation.”—Ibid. p. 77.
126
perty of muscular fibre, by which it shortens
or contracts itself when touched.
Haller demonstrated, and it is his glory,
that the muscle alone moves when it is
touched. What is that to Broussais? He
goes back again to the vague irritability of
Glisson and de Gorter: like those authors, he
.assigns it to every tissue, and, like them, he
explains every thing by means of it.
Broussais’s irritation is merely Haller’s
irritability exaggerated and deformed.
The genius of Broussais was too impatient
to allow him to proceed step by step up to
the idea—too impassioned to hinder him from
being satisfied with the name—and for that
very reason he appears to have been by nature
fitted for success in a school where the name
is every thing.
But here is the great difference. Gall and
Broussais laboured for the School: Descartes
toiled for the human mind.
VIII.
I RETURN to Gall.
Those who wish to learn GalPs doctrine,
will always go lip to Gall himself. Spurz-
heim already alters the spirit of that doctrine,
and Gall complains of it. “ M. Spurzheim,”
says he, “ knows my discoveries better than
any body else, but he tries to introduce among
them a spirit quite foreign to that in which
they were begun, continued and perfected.” *
* Anat et Physiol, du Systfime Ncrvcux, &c. iii. 1ft.
128
Gall, moreover, was a great anatomist. His
idea of tracing the fibres of the brain is, as to
the anatomy of that organ, the fundamental
idea. The idea is not his own: two French
anatomists, Yieussens and Pourfour du Petit,
had admirably understood it long before his
time; but at the period of his appearance it
had been long forgotten. The brain was not
then dissected by any orte: it was cut in slices.
It was a great merit in Gall to have recalled
the true method of dissecting the brain; and
there was still greater address on his part, in
connecting with his labours in positive ana­
tomy, his doctrine of independent faculties and
multiple brain.
This strange doctrine has had a fortune still
more strange. Gall and Spurzheim forgot to
place curiosity among their primary faculties.
They were wrong. But for the credulous
curiosity of mankind, how could they have
explained the success of their doctrine?
129
Fortunately, a system never lives otherwise
than as a system lives. That of the moment
is abandoned for the sake of another: and
almost always for a perfectly opposite one.
Systems multiply and pass away j and we
are indebted to the systems themselves for an
escape from the mischiefs of systems.
9
NOTES.
NOTE I.
A natomical R elations supposed by G all to exist
betw een th e O rgans of t h e E xternal Senses,
and th e O rgans of th e I ntellectual F aculties.
Page 82. According to Gall, the origin, the deve­
lopment, the structure and mode of termination, as to
the organs of the faculties of the sotd and the organs
of the external senses, every thing is similar, every
thing is in common.
It is known that two substances compose the nervous
system—the gray matter, and the white or fibrous mat*
ter. Well, according to Gall, one of these substances
produces the other. The gray matter produces the
white matter.
Wherever, therefore, there happens to be any gray
matter, white matter must appear; that is to say,
nervous fibres,* nervous filaments, nerves. All the
*The white matter is every where fibrous. No person has
contributed more than Gall to the demonstration of this great
fact. He justly remarks: “ Those authors who, with.Simmer­
ing and Cuvier, &c., recognise the fibrous structure ofthe brain,
in many of its parts, have nevertheless, not yet ventured to say
that it is so in all its parts."—T. i. 235.
132
nerves in the body must arise in this way. The spinal
nerves arise from the gray matter which is in the in­
terior of the spinal marrow'; the cerebral nerves from
the gray matter that is in the interior of the medulla
oblongata.
Hence, the nerves ofthe body are organs of the senses.
On the other hand, the brain and the cerebellum,*
which are the organs of thefaculties o f the soul, must
arise like the nerves: the brain from the gray matter
of the pyramidal eminences ; the cerebellum from the
gray matter that surrounds the restiform bodies.
In the second place, w'hcnever a nerve traverses a
mass of gray matter, it receives from.it, according to
Gall, certain new nervous filaments; and in this wray
it grows and dcvelopes itself. The cerebrum and cere­
bellum will not fail therefore to grow and be developed
likewise. The primitive bundles of the cerebellum,
(the restiform bodies,) will growr by means of the fila­
ments which will be. imparted to them by the gray
matter of the ciliary body: the primitive bundles of
the cerebrum, (the pyramidal eminences,) by the fila­
ments imparted to them by, first, the gray matter of the
pons varolii ; secondly, by that of the optic strata ,*
and then by that of the olivary bodies, corpora striata,
&c. &c.
Finally, in the same manner as a nerve of sense
expands at its termination, and by means of such ex-
*The cerebellum serves only for the motions of locomotion.
<See the first article of this work.) But, I am here setting forth
Gall’s opinions.
133
pansion forms the organ of the sense, so the primitive
bundles of fibres of the brain and of the cerebellum
terminate in expansions, and constitute the organs
o f the internal senses ; that is to say, the lobes of the
cerebellum and the hemispheres of the brain.*
NOTE II.
D ifference betw een Instinct and U nderstanding. .
Page 64 (Note). And he does not see that as to
the instincts and the understanding all is contrast.
Here is what I have elsewhere said upon this ques-
* “ The particular systems of the brain terminate in fibrous
expansions arranged in layers, just as the other nervous systems .
expand in fibres at their peripheral extremity.”—T. i. 318. “ All
the diverging bundles of the brain, after they come out from
the last apparatus of reinforcement, expand in layers aud form
convolutions.*’—T. i. 283. “ The nerves of sensation and mo­
tion expand in the skin and the muscles; the nerves of the
senses, each in the external instrument to which they belong t
for example, the pituitary membrane upon the bones of the nose:
the nerve of taste in the tongue, and the expansion of the optie
nerve in the retina..................Nature obeys precisely the sams
law in the brain. The different parts of tho brain originate and
are reinforced at different points; they form fibrous bundles of
various sizes, which terminate in expansions. All these expan­
sions of the various bundles constitute, when reunited, the hemi­
spheres of the brain.”—T. iii. p. 3.
I here speak only of the d i v e r g i n g f i b r e * . Coming from the
interior, they proceed towards the exterior: the c o n v e r g i n g f i b r e *
coming from the exterior, that is, according to Gall, from the
gray matter that envelopes the brain and the cerebellum, are
directed inwards. The former constitute the c o n v o l u t i o n s ,
while the latter compose the c o m m i s s u r e * . But I shall, further
on, return to this subject.
134
tion, so long debated, of the instinct and understand-
ing of animals.
“ There is a most complete difference between
instinct and understanding.
“ In instinct all is blind, necessary, and invariable..
In understanding every thing is elective, conditional,
and modifiable.
“ The beaver which builds its house, and the bird
that constructs its nest, act only by instinct.
“ The dog and the horse, that learn even the mean­
ing of several of our words, and who pay obedience
to us, do so by understanding.
“ In instinct all is innate. The beaver builds with­
out having learned to build: all that he does is from
fatality. The beaver builds under the impulsion of a
constant and irresistible force.
“ In understanding, every thing results from expe­
rience and instruction. The dog obeys only because
he has learned to obey: he is perfectly free in this
respect; for he obeys only because he will obey.
“ Finally, in regard to instinct every thing is parti­
cular. That admirable industry that the beaver exhi­
bits in the construction of his hut, can be employed in
no other occupation than the building of his hut. Now,
in understanding every thing is general; for the dog
could apply the same flexibility of attention, and of
conception, which he uses in obeying, to do any other
thing.
4
4In animals thcro are, therefore, two distinct and
primary forces— instinct and understanding. As long
as our conceptions of these.forces were confused, all
135
oar views and opinions in regard to the actions of ani­
mals remained obscure and contradictory* Among
these actions, some exhibited man every where superior
to the brute; while others appeared to accord to the
brute creation the superiority over man—a contradiction
almost as deplorable as absurd! By the distinction
that separates blind and necessary actions from elective
and conditional ones—
-or, in a word, instinct from intel­
ligence—all contradiction disappears, and order suc­
ceeds to confusion. Whatever in animals is. under-
standing, does not in any degree approachthe excel­
lence of the human understanding; and whatsoever,
under the appearance of understanding, seemed supe­
rior to the human understanding, is in facta mere result
of a mechanical and blind force.” *
Here is what I say as to the boundaries between the
intelligence of man and of animals.
“Animals receive, through their senses, impressions
similar to those that we receive through the medium of
our senses; like ourselves, they retain the traces of
these impressions: these impressions, when preserved,
form for them, as well as for us, numerous and various
associations: they combine them, they draw from them
inferences, and deduce judgments from them: there­
fore they possess understanding.
“ But the whole of their understanding stops at that
point. The understanding they possess is not one that
can consider itself: it cannot see itself, does not know
*See my work, Do 1
’instinct et do l’intetligence des animaux,
Ac. p. 46,2d edit.
136
itself. They do not possess reflection, that supreme
faculty with which the mind of man is endowed, and
which enables him to turn his intellectual power
inwards, so as to study and know the nature of his own
understanding.
“ Reflection, thus defined, is then the boundary that
separates human intelligence from that of tho bruto
creation: and in fact it cannot be denied that this fur*
nishes a strong line of demarcation between them.
Thought, which contemplates itself; understanding,
which sees itself and studies itself; knowledge, which
knows itself; these evidently constitute an order of
determinate phenomena of a decided character, and to
which no brute animal can ever attain. This is, if one
might so speak, a purely intellectual domain; and it
appertains to man alone. In one word, animals feel,
know, think; but man is the only one of all created
beings to whom has been given the power of feeling
that he feels, of knowing that he knows, and of think­
ing that he thinks.” *
I will quote, also, the following passage from my
work sur Cinstinct et r intelligence dcs animaux, p.
178, et seq.
“ ................There are three facts: instinct, under-
standing of brutes, and human understanding ,* and
each of these facts has its definite limits.
“ Instinct acts without knowing; understanding
knows in order to act; the human understanding alone
knows, and knows itself.
* Opus citat. p. 49.
137
“ Reflection, closely defined, is the knowledge o f
thought by thought. And this power of thought Over
thought gives us a whole order of new relations. A s
soon as the mind perceives itself it judges itself; as
soon as it can act upon itself it is free; as soon os it
becomes free it becomes moral.
4
4Man is only moral because ho is free.
“ Tho brute animal follows its body; in tho midst
of this body, which shrouds it completely in matter, the
human mind is free, and so free that it can, whenever
it prefers to do so, immolate its very body.
“ 4Tho great power of the will over the body,* says
Bossuct,4consists in this prodigious effect, that man
is so completely master of his frame, that he can even
sacrifice it for the sake of some greater good in view.
To rush into the midst of blows, and plunge into a
flight of arrows from a blind impetuosity, as happens*
among brute creatures, shows nothing superior to the
body itself; but to resolve to die with' understanding,
and for reasons, notwithstanding the whole disposition
of the body to the contrary, evinces a principle supe­
rior to the body; and among all the tribes of animals,
man is the only one in whom this principle exists.* **
N O T E III.
G all, as an O bserver.
Page 93. He studied them (mankind) in his own
way, but he studied them very closely.
Gall was a practical observer. He observed and
studied always, and with so much the greater success
138
because Mpeople never suspected that they had to do
(these are his own words) with a man who knew per­
fectly well that the basis of human character continues
to be always the same, and that merely the objects that
interest us change with the progress of years.” *
He examined “ families, schools, hospitals, &c.”t
And he never was satisfied with appearances only.
**The occupations that we pursue as our business, gene­
rally prove nothing either as to our faculties or our
propensities: but those which we engage in as recrea­
tion are almost always in conformity with our tastes
and our talcnts.”|
His observations on men were more serviceable to
him in judging of and describing their characters, than
the bumps on the skull.
“ I often said to my friends, show me the funda­
mental forces of the soul, and 1will find the organ and
the seat for each one ofthem.§ . . . . When I had become
convinced that a distinguished talent, and one fully so
recognised, was especially the work of nature, I exa­
mined the head of the individual,...........&c.” ||
Gall’s progression, then, was from observation to the
cranium ; he first proceeded from observation to the
cranium, and next from the cranium to the brain.
Furthermore, Gall began by studying the physiog­
nom y—thefeatures of the countenance—like Lavater.
He at first thought that a good memory was con­
nected w ith'a certain conformation of the eyes: “ I
remarked,” says he, “ that they all had large projecting
*T. iii. p. 64. t T. iii. p. 64. XT. iii. p. 64.
$ T. iii. p. 58. IIT, iii. p. 59.
139
eyes................I suspected, therefore, that there ought
to exist some connexion between memory and this con-
formation of the eyes.” * Again he says, “ It may be
perceived, from the progress of these researches, that
the first step consisted in the discovery of certain or­
gans ; that it was by degrees only that we allowed facts
to speak in order to deduce from them general prin­
ciples ; and that it was subsequently, and towards the
close, that we had learned to know the brain.”t
Thus it appears that the study of the brain came
later than the doctrine; and that is the reason why the
anatomy of the brain is a mere series of mistakes and
conjectures—I mean here the special anatomy, the
secret anatomy, the phrenological anatomy $ I mean
the anatomy made out to suit the doctrine. I have
already sufficiently discriminated between it and the
real anatomy.%
NOTE IV.
Of th e A nimal Spirits.
Page 116. He who is so intolerant of the personi­
fications proposed by others makes one personification
more.
Broussais explains every thing by the word irrita­
tion, just as Gall explains every thing by the word
faculties, and as Malebranche explained them by ani­
mal spirits.
After serving Descartes, th e animal spirits were in
•T.i.p.3. tT.i.p.18. tT.i.p.64&67.
140
the service of Malebronche; they served all the authors
of the seventeenth century.
Malebranche commences one of his chapters with
these words: “ Every body agrees that the animal
spirits . . . He had no idea that everybody would
agree some day, that the animal spirits is mere non*
sense. •
There were animal spirits of all sorts; as Gall had
faculties of all sorts: there were agitatedt animal
spirits, languid animal spirits.}: There were even
libertine animal spirits.
“ Wine is so spirituous,” says Malebranche, “ that it
is animal spirits almost completely formed, but libertine
spirits.” §
The animal Spirits seemed to have become the ultima
ratio of the philosophers.
The author of a book, in other respects to be esteemed,
thus defined imagination: “ Imagination is a percep­
tion of the soul’s caused by the internal motion of the
animal spirits.” ii
That author had no doubt that he was saying some­
thing.
NOTE y .
E xaggeration of B roussais, even in P hrenology.
Page 120. IVe ought to read that volume over
again, and forget the Cours de Phrenologie.
Broussais does not adopt merely the general ideas of
• the phrenologists—he adopts even the smallest of them.
*Do la Rech. dc la Veritc. liv. ii. chap. ii. t Ibid, t Ibid.
$Du bcl esprit, p. 80. II Ibid.
141
Gall had located the instinct of murder in a given
part of the brain; and he supposed, be it understood,
that this part existed only in the brain of the carnivo­
rous animals. But see, it is found in the brain of th e
herbivora; and one would suppose that the phrenolo­
gists would be in trouble about it. Don’t deceive your­
self, the instinct of murder is the instinct of destruc­
tion. Spurzheim denominates it destructivity; and
the herbivorous animals must possess it, for they eat
plants and consequently destroy them.
4
4The herbivora” says Broussais,4
4effect a real de­
struction among plants.* An attempt has been mode to
turn these ideas into ridicule, even in an Academy.. . .
It was in a learned society of this kind considered
ridiculous in the phrenologists to compare the destruc­
tion of vegetables to that of animals. For my own
part I do not see why the idea should be rejected, if
the fundamental object of the organ be to procure the
means of alimentation, which seems to be quite cer­
tain.”!
Gall imagines an organ for religion; he thinks it
peculiar to man, and denominates it the Organ o f
Theosophy. The same organ is found quite down in
the scale as low as the sheep and do not suppose
that Broussais is at all shocked by the discovery. If
necessary he will go further than all the phrenologists
taken together.
4
4The phrenologists” says h e ,4
4have denied that this
sentiment (the sentiment of veneration) belongs to the
* Cqure de Phrdn. 218. +P. 221.
t See M. Leuret: Anat. Comp, da Syst. Nerv. &c. 1839.
142
animals. I am not of that opinion. A certain shade
of veneration exists in many species, among the ver­
tebrate, that choose their leaders, and march according
to a signal given by their chiefs and obey them. Thus
even among the sheep you may see a chief.” *
Who would have believed it ? Broussais finds Gall
too timorous.
“ There is,” says he, “ no central organ. This is
considered as one of the most powerful objections to
Gall. As far as I know he never answered it. As for
me, 1 shall be more frank, perhaps more bold: I shall
say it is impossible that there should be one, &c.”t
N O T E VI.
C ontractility of B roussais.
Page 120. lie assigns it to every tissue, and, like
them, he explains every thing by means of it.
He assigns it to every tissue. Ilaller attributed this
property to the muscles alone, “ but it is a common
property of the tissues.”!
He explains every thing by means of i t : every
thing, even innervation itself. But he is constrained to
add: “ Doubtless something more occurs in the interior
of the nervous tissue; doubtless we arc unacquainted
and ignorant as to how that other thing is connected
with the motions in question, and how it may employ
them in the act of innervation,” &c.§
*Cours de Phrcn. p. 350. t Ibid. p. 117.
$Dc l’lrritation et de la Folie, p.2. $ Ibid p. 76.
143
So we perceive, in the first place, contractility ex­
plains innervation ; and then, that something more is
wanting. And as nervous contractility is nothing but
a mental fiction (a nerve never moves, never contracts,
when it is touched) the whole matter tapers down to
this something more, or to that other thing.
See how very far from being rigorous are those who
construct systems.
NOTE VII.
R eal L abours of G all as to t iib B rain.
Page 128. GaUymoreover, was a great anatomist.
He found that the medullary substance of the brain
was fibrous throughout ;* he saw the fibres of the me­
dulla oblongata decussate before they form the pyra­
midal eminences,t those of the corpora olivario, &c.;
* Steno had already said, “ If the medullary substance be
every where fibrous, as in fact; in most parts it appears to be,
you must confess that the disposal of these fibres must be
arranged with great skill, since the whole diversity of our feel*
ings and motions depend upon them. We wonder at the artifice
of the fibres in each muscle, but how much more are they worthy
of admiration in the brain, where theso fibres, enclosed within so
small a space, perform each its own function without confusion
and without disorder.”—Ditcours sur Vanat. ducervcau, 1668.
t Long before his timo tho samo had been socn by Misticholli,
Pourfour du Potit, Winslow, and sovcral others, but it had boon
forgotten. *' Each pyramidal body,” says Pourfour du Petit,
“ is divided at its inferior part into two large bundles of fibres,
most frequently into three, and in some instances into four.
Those of the right pass to the left side, and those of the left pass
to the right side, mingling with each other.”—Lettre d’ttn mede*
ein des hopitaux du Rou Namur 1710.
144
that is to say, all the ascending fibres of the medulla
oblongata across the pons.varolii, thalami nervor opti-
corum, and the corpora striata, os far as the vault of
the hemispheres; he saw the bundles formed by these
fibres increased in magnitude at each of these pas­
sages ; he distinguished the fibres which go out in order
to expand in the hemispheres, from those that go in in
order to give birth to the commissures: many nerves
that were regarded as coming out immediately from the
brain, were by him traced even into the medulla ob­
longata, &c.
And I repeat that all these facts, with the discovery
of which he has enriched the science of anatomy, all
of them are the results of a happy thought of his—
the idea of tracing the fibres of the brain, or to use
a common expression, of substituting in the dissection
of the brain the method of developments for that of
sections.
Those of Gall’s opinions which it seems ought not to
be adopted, are: that in which he supposes the nerve
fibres to be born (he understands the word to the letter)
of the gray matter; that in which he contends that the
convolutions of the brain arc merely foldings of tho
medullary fibres, andean therefore be unfolded; that
in which he compares the retc mucosum of the skin
to the gray matter of the encephalon, &c., &c.
Gall had a mind which impelled him to the forma­
tion of hypotheses; and even in his real anatomy there
is a decided smack of a system-author.
THE END.
