{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/psypioneer.iapsop.com\/psypioneer_v1_n12_apr_2005.pdf","mytitle":"Psypioneer V1 N12 Apr 2005","mylang":"de"}
132
PSYPIONEER
An Electronic Newsletter from London
Volume 1 No 12 April 2005
CONTENTS
This issue consists entirely of a reprint of E.E Lewis . “ Mysterious Noises “
Foreword to Lewis reprint………………………………………………………… 132
Foreword
Modern Spiritualism officially began on 31 March 1848 when visitors came to listen
to the mysterious noises at the Fox family house in Hydesville, New York State.
Initially the phenomena were similar to those reported since Roman times and called
poltergeists, such as the “ Bell Witch “ of Tennessee 1817-21, but the developing two
way communication evolved into a multi-faceted movement.
Many students of the paranormal will have a view on the case, and especially on the
two young Fox sisters present initially. (A third sister Leah who lived in Rochester
was soon involved also.) Some believe that the sisters produced the rapping
phenomena fraudulently by their toes. By means of the raps, a story was swiftly
elaborated that a peddler had been murdered in the house by a former resident whom
the raps named.
The whole story of the Fox sisters has recently been retold by Barbara Weisberg in “
Talking to the dead, Kate and Maggie Fox and the rise of Spiritualism.”
(HarperSanFrancisco, hardback 2004 and paperback 2005.) If you are interested in
the case, you should read this book, and follow up the references in it.
Weisberg found that writers after 1848 changed the story. In some cases, they may
have obtained extra information from Fox family members, (though this too could be
unreliable) but at times it is clear that authors altered the words or the facts in sources
they were using.
However, an account of the Hydesville phenomena had been published within weeks
of 31 March 1848. It was basically an artless collection of personal testimonies
collected by an attorney from a nearby town – indeed the last accounts were added to
the end, after the author’s main conclusion. As Weisberg notes (p.17) “ The voices of
the Fox family and their neighbours rise from the pages like ghostly echoes.” This
pamphlet by E.E. Lewis was never seen by many later writers on the Fox sisters, for
or against.
Now you are able to read it in full. It is repetitive, but notable also for what it does not
say. There are no statements from the Fox sisters; indeed they are little mentioned
and not even named. Their central association with the phenomena was a later
133
realisation – perhaps their mother Margaret Fox was the first to note this. (Weisberg
p.46).
If you want to be a detective, you can raise many points, such as - by whom was the
story of the peddler developed? Did anyone ask leading questions, or bring
preconceived ideas? What part did underground water play in the noises- the house
was by a river and had water underneath? What of the fishermen? How credible is the
evidence of earlier phenomena before the Fox family moved in?
There is much emphasis on the respectability of the Fox family, and on their
suffering. The peddler is not named, though some initials were obtained. Later books
confidently gave the full name of the peddler, in different versions and initials. But his
very existence is uncertain. Modern Spiritualism begins with a supposed entity
insisting it had been murdered and naming the murderer, but his neighbours testify
that he is a respectable man, and he is never charged! “ Here Mr Splitfoot, do as I do
“, Kate Fox’s request to the entity which appears in later versions of the story is often
taken too lightly , if “ Mr Splitfoot “ is a New England nickname for the Evil One,
and this is one of the Hungry Ghosts of whom Joe Fisher (1990) wrote.
It is a useful exercise to mentally reconsider this case as if we knew nothing of the
later developments beyond Hydesville. Even so, the competing hypotheses are many,
and there is no space to properly consider them here. Our purpose is merely to make
the text available. Thanks are due to Paul Gaunt for the suggestion that we should do
a reprint, and for undertaking the arduous task of scanning a difficult text. Paul Gaunt,
Dr Michael Coleman and other readers of Psypioneer Newsletter are among those
taking forward the re-examination of the Fox case. You are advised to subscribe ( it is
free ) if you want to be in touch with further discoveries. Send an e mail headed “
subscribe” to psypioneersub@aol.com.
The booklet was prefaced by a drawing of the Fox cottage. This is of some interest for
comparison with later representations of the cottage, and is here moved to between the
testimonies of Mr and Mrs Fox senior.
For indexing purposes of Psypioneer , we have included this foreword, but the text of
the Lewis pamphlet has a new and separate pagination, different also from the 1848
edition.
Leslie Price, April 2005.
…………………………………………………………………………………………
How to obtain this Newsletter
The Psypioneer newsletter is at present available on the web site
www.woodlandway.org and we are greatly indebted to our Australian friends. You
can obtain it free and direct by sending an e-mail entitled “ Subscribe” to
psypioneersub@aol.com or “ Unsubscribe” to discontinue. Assistant editor- Paul J.
Gaunt.
1
A REPORT
OF THE
MYSTERIOUS NOISES,
HEARD IN THE HOUSE OF
MR. JOHN D. FOX,
IN HYDESVILLE, ARCADIA, WAYNE COUNTY,
AUTHENTICATED
BY THE CERTIFICATES, AND
CONFIRMED
BY THE STATEMENTS OF THE CITIZENS OF THAT
PLACE AND VICINITY.
Thou canst not say I did it:
Never shake thy gory locks at me,
Pr’ythee, see there’ look! lo! How say you?
Why, what care I? If thou canst nod, speak too.
If charnel-houses, and our graves, must send
Those that we bury back, our monuments
Shall be the maws of kites. (MACBETH.
Canandaigua:
PUBLISHED BY E.E. LEWIS.
PRINTED ON THE POWER PRESS OF SHEPARD & REED,
Over Nos. 20, 22, & 24 State-Street, Rochester.
…………..
1848.
2
INTRODUCTION
In presenting this Report to the public, we do it, not for the purpose of gratifying the
morbid tastes which the ignorant and superstitious always have for whatever is marvelous
or unaccountable, nor for the purpose of increasing the excitement that has been already
created by the indefinite and exaggerated rumors in regard to this mysterious affair. We do
it for the purpose of placing before the world the nature of that excitement,--the causes that
have led to it, and the facts upon which it is founded. We do it for the purpose of showing
that, at least some degree of credit is due to the origin of these statements, and that they are
not wholly unfounded and untrue. We have spent several days in that place, for the purpose
of investigating this strange affair, and if possible to solve the mystery. During that time,
we had an opportunity to converse with scores of the most respectable citizens of that place,
who had themselves spent no little time in endeavoring to satisfy their own minds as to the
cause of these noises. They had all heard them at different times. during the past two
weeks, and manifested a strong desire that the truth should be made known,--that the noises
should be accounted for as the effect of some natural causes. They appeared to be reluctant
to believe that it was a supernatural manifestation.
But whether it he owing to supernatural means or not, will probably be developed in time.
It may be the result of trickery, or fear, or superstition, or all combined. If it is the first,--if
the spirits of the injured dead are permitted to return to earth and haunt the theatre of their
wrongs, and harrass the minds of those who have been guilty of those wrongs, or for the
purpose of revealing dark and atrocious crimes that would otherwise go unpunished, we
only have a confirmation of the truth that, " murder will out," however carefully it may be
concealed. But if it be the result of the last, and this great excitement has been caused by
human agency,--if any one has been able thus to deceive a large, intelligent and candid
community for such a length of time as this has been carried on, it certainly surpasses any
thing that has ever occurred in this country, or any other.
One individual may easily be made the dupe of appearances and sounds, which to him are
unaccountable; but when hundreds of intelligent people come up and certify, as in this case,
their statements are entitled to our confidence. They all unite in saying that they have heard
these noises, at different times, in this house; that they have made a long and thorough
investigation in order to ascertain the cause, but are wholly unable to gain any satisfactory
information,--that in their opinion it cannot be owing to chance, or produced by any human
being through the agency of ventriloquism or deceptive sounds; and we are bound, by the
confidence which we all have in each other in our worldly transactions, to place some degree
of reliance in their representation.
We. cannot believe that all have combined together to create this great excitement, by
circulating stories and making statements which have no foundation in truth. How, then,
shall we account for it? Shall we subject ourselves to the imputation of being superstitious?
of being believers in "haunted houses" and ghostly appearances? Future developments may,
and probably will, clear up the mystery that now hangs over this affair. But let those who
ridicule the excitement that has been created, and laugh at those who, after a thorough
investigation, have been driven to the conclusion that this is a supernatural appearance,--let
them step forward and solve this mystery, if they can.
Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1848, by E.E. LEWIS. In the Clerk’s Office of the
District Court for the Northern District of New York.
3
MYSTERIOUS NOISES HEARD IN THE HOUSE OF JOHN D. FOX, IN
HYDESVILLE, (TOWN OF ARCADIA,) NEAR NEWARK, WAYNE
COUNTY, N.Y.
The following statements were made by the different persons whose names are signed
to them, and taken down in writing as they made them: after which they were carefully
read to them, and signed by them. They comprise but a small number of those who
heard these noises, or have been knowing to these transactions; but they are deemed
sufficient to satisfy the public mind in regard to their truthfulness:
Certificate of Mrs. Margaret Fox,
WIFE Of JOHN D. FOX, THE PRESENT OCCUPANT OF THE HOUSE.
We moved into this house on the 11th December, 1847, and resided here
ever since. We formerly resided in the city of Rochester. We first heard
this noise about a fortnight ago. It sounded like some one knocking in the
east bed-room, on the floor; sometimes it sounded as if the chair moved
on the floor; we could hardly tell where it was. This was in the evening,
just after we had gone to bed. The whole family slept in that room
together, and all heard the noise. There was four of our family, and
sometimes five. The first night that we heard the rapping, we all got up
and lit a candle; and searched all over the house. The noise continued
while we were hunting, and was heard near the same place all the time. It
was not very loud, yet it produced a jar of the bedsteads and chairs, that
could be felt by placing our hands on the chair. or while we were in bed.
It was a feeling of a- tremulous motion, more than a sudden jar. 1t seemed
as if we could feel it jar while we were standing on the floor. It continued
this night until we went to sleep. I did not go to sleep until nearly 12 o'clock.
The noise continued to be heard every night.
On Friday night, the 31st of March, it was heard as usual, and, we then for
the first time called in the neighbors. Up to this time we had never heard it
in the day time, or at least did not notice it at all.
On Friday night we concluded to go to bed early, and not let it disturb us;
if it came, we thought we would not mind it, but try and get a good night's
rest. My husband was here on all these occasions, heard the noise and
helped search. It was very early when we went to bed on this night; hardly
dark. We went to bed so early, because we had been broken so much of
our rest that I was almost sick.
My husband had not gone to bed when we first heard the noise on this
evening. I had just laid down. It commenced as usual. I knew it from all
other noises I had ever heard in the house. The girls, who slept in the other
bed in the room, heard the noise, and tried to make a similar noise by
4
snapping their fingers. The youngest girl is about 12 years old;--she is the
one who made her hand go. As fast as she made the noise with her hands
or fingers, the sound was followed up in the room. It. did not sound any
different at that time, only it made the same number of noises that the girl
did. When she stopped, the sound itself stopped for a short time.
The other girl, who is in her 15th year, then spoke in sport and said, "Now do
this just as I do. Count one, two, three, four;" &c., striking one hand in the
other at the same time. The blows which she made were repeated as before. It
appeared to answer her by repeating every blow that she made. She only did
so once. She then began to be startled; and then I spoke and said to the noise,
"Count ten," and it made ten strokes or noises. Then I asked the ages of my
different children successively, and it gave a number of raps, corresponding
to the ages of my children.
I then asked if it was a human being that was making the noise? and if it was,
to manifest it by the same noise. There was no noise. I then asked if it was a
spirit? and if it was, to manifest it by two sounds. I heard two sounds as soon
as the words were spoken. I then asked, if it was an injured spirit? to give me
the sound, and I heard the rapping distinctly. I then asked if it was injured in
this house? and it manifested it by the noise. If the person was living that
injured it? and got the same answer. I then ascertained, by the same method that
its remains were buried under the dwelling, and how old it was. When I asked
how many years old it was? it rapped 31 times; that it was a male; that it had left
a family of five children; that it had two sons and three daughters, all living. I
asked if it left a wife? and it rapped. If its wife was then living? no rapping; if
she was dead? and the rapping was distinctly heard how long she had been
dead? and it rapped twice.
About this time I asked, will this noise continue if I call in my neighbors, that
they may hear it too? It answered me by the usual token of rapping. My husband
went and called Mrs. Redfield, our next door neighbor. She is a very candid
woman. The girls were then sitting up in bed, somewhat terrified and clinging to
each other. I was as calm, I think, as I am now.
Mrs. Redfield came immediately. This was about half past seven o'clock. She
came in, thinking to joke and laugh at the children: but when she came, she see
that we were all amazed like, and that there was something in it. I then asked a
few questions, and they were answered as before; and she was satisfied that
there was something strange about it. It told her age exactly. She would then call
her husband, and he came; and the same questions were asked over again, and
the answers were the same as before. It was then asked how long it had been
injured? and the sound was repeated four times at regular intervals, and then,
after a short. pause, one more; and the same was repeated every time the same
question was asked.
5
Then Mr. Redfield called in Mr. Duesler and wife, and several others. A great
many questions were asked over, and the same answers given as before. Mr.
Duesler then called in Mr. and Mrs. Hyde; they came, and also Mr. and Mrs.
Jewell. Mr. Duesler asked many questions and got the answers.
I then named over all the neighbors that I could think of, and asked if any of
them had injured it, and got no answer. Then Mr. Duesler asked it some
questions, the same as I had, and got the same answers. He asked if it was
murdered? and it answered in the usual way; and if the murderer could be
brought to justice? and there was no sound: and then, if he could be
punished by the law? and there was no rapping. He then asked, "if this
murderer cannot be punished by the law, manifest it by the noise? " and
the noise was repeated.
In the same way Mr. Duesler ascertained that it was murdered in the bed
room, about five years ago, and .that the murder was committed by a Mr.---
--- , on a Tuesday night, at 12 o'clock; that it was murdered by having its
throat cut, with a butcher knife; that the body did not remain in the room
next day, but that it was taken down cellar, and that it was not buried until
the next night that it was not taken down through the outside door, but
through the buttery, down the stairway; that it was buried ten feet below
the surface of the ground.
It was then asked if money was the object of the murder? and the rapping
commenced. How much money was obtained? was it one hundred dollars?
two hundred? three hundred? four hundred? No noise. Five hundred? and
the usual rapping was heard. We were all in the bed-room at that time.
Many called in that night, who were out fishing in the creek, and they all
heard the same noise. The same questions were frequently repeated as
others came in, and the same answers were obtained. Some of them staid
here all night. I and my family all left the house but my husband. I went to
Mrs. Redfield's and staid all night: my children staid at some of the other
neighbors. My husband and Mr. Redfield staid in the house all that night.
On the next day the house was filled to overflowing all day. This was on
Saturday. There was no sound heard through the day; but in the evening
the noise commenced again. Some said that there were three hundred
people present at this time. They appointed a committee, and many
questions were asked. I did not know much what was done that night,
only by hearsay, as I went to Mr. Duesler's to stay all night.
On Sunday morning, the 2nd day of April, the noise commenced again, and
was heard throughout the day by all who came here. On Saturday night they
6
commenced digging in the cellar, and dug until they came to water, and then
gave it up. The noise was not heard on Sunday evening, nor during the
night. Stephen B. Smith and wife and David S. Fox and wife, slept in the
room this night. I have heard nothing since that time, until yesterday. In the
forenoon of yesterday, there were several questions answered in the usual
way, by rapping. I have heard the noise several times to-day.
I am not a believer in haunted houses or supernatural appearances. I am very
sorry that there has been so much excitement about it. It has been a great deal
of trouble to us. It was our misfortune to live here at this time; but I am willing
and anxious that the truth should he known, and that a true statement should be
made. I cannot account for these noises; all that I know is, that they have been
heard repeatedly, as I have stated. I have heard this rapping again this
(Tuesday) morning, April 4. My children also heard it.
I certify that the above statement has been read to me; and that the same is
true; and that I should be willing to take my oath that it was so, if necessary.
April 11th, 1848 (Signed,) MARGARET FOX.
7
Certificate of Mr. John D. Fox.
I have heard the above statement of my wife, MARGARET Fox, and hereby
certify that the same is true, in all its particulars. I heard the same rapping
which she has spoken of, in answer to the questions, as stated by her. There
have been a great many questions besides those asked, and answered in the
same way. Some have been asked over a great many times, and they have
always received the same answer; there never has been any contradiction
whatever.
I do not know of any way to account for these noises, as being caused by any
natural means. We have searched in every nook and corner in and about the
house, at different times, to ascertain if possible whether any thing or any body
was secreted there, that could make the noise, and have never been able to
find any thing which explained the mystery. It has caused a great deal of
trouble and anxiety. Hundreds have visited the house, so that it is impossible
for us to attend to our daily occupations: and I hope that whether caused by
natural or supernatural means, will be ascertained soon. The digging in the
cellar will be resumed as soon as the water settles; and then it can be
ascertained whether there are any indications of a body ever having been
buried there; and if there are, I shall have no doubt but what this is a
supernatural appearance.
I am willing to make the statements which I have made about this matter,
under oath, if you wish to have me do so. The rapping has been heard again
to-day in answer to the questions.
April 11th, 1848. (Signed,) JOHN D. FOX.
Statement of Wm. Duesler, of Arcadia.
I live in this place. I moved from Cayuga county here, last October. I live
within a few rods of the house in which these noises have been heard. The
first I heard any thing about them was, a week ago last Friday evening, (31st
day of March.) Mrs. Redfield came over to my house to get my wife to go
over to Mr. Fox's. Mrs. R. appeared to be very much agitated.My wife
wanted I should go over with them, and I accordingly went. When she told us
what she wanted us to go over there for, I laughed at her; and ridiculed the
idea that there was any thing mysterious in it. I told her it was all nonsense,
and that we would find out the cause of the noise, and that it could easily be
8
accounted for. This was about 9 o'clock in the evening. There were some 12
or 14 persons there when I got there. Some were so frightened that they did
not want to go into the room. I went into the room and sat down on the bed.
Mr. Fox asked a question, and I heard the rapping which they had spoken of,
distinctly. I felt the bedstead jar when the sound was produced.
Mrs. Fox then asked if it would answer my questions, if I asked any? and if
so, rap. It then rapped three times. I then asked, if it was an injured spirit?
and it rapped. I asked if it had come to hurt any one who was then present?
and it did not rap. I then reversed the question, and it rapped. I asked if I
or my father had injured it? (as we had formerly lived in the house,) and
there was no noise. If we have not injured you, manifest it by rapping,
and we all heard three distinct raps. I then asked it such and such a one
had injured it? (naming over several families who had formerly lived in
the house,) and there was no noise. Upon asking the negative of these
questions, the rapping was heard. I then asked if Mr.--- ---- (naming a
person who had formerly lived in the house,) had injured it? and if so,
manifest it by rapping, and it made three knocks louder than common and
at the same time the bedstead jarred more than it had done before. I then
inquired if it was murdered for money, and the knocking was heard. I
then requested it to rap when I mentioned the sum of money for which it
was murdered. I then asked if it was one hundred? two, three or four? and
when I came to five hundred, the rapping was heard. All in the room said
they heard it distinctly. I then asked the question, if it was five hundred
dollars? and the rapping was heard.
After that I went over and got ARTEMAS W. HYDE to come over. He
came over. I then asked over nearly the same questions as before, and got
the same answers. Mr. Redfield went after David Jewell and wife, and
Mrs. Hyde also came. After they came in, I asked the same questions over
again, and got the same answers.
Then I asked the question, how it was murdered. I asked if it was murdered
by being struck on the head, and there was no noise. I then reversed the
question. and the rapping was heard. Then I asked if it was stabbed in the
side? and there was no answer; upon asking the negative of this, the
rapping was heard. It usually rapped three times in answer to my
questions. I then asked if it had its throat cut? and it rapped as usual. Then,
if it was with a butcher knife? and the rapping was heard. In the same way
it was ascertained that it was asleep at the time, but was awakened when
the knife entered the throat; that it struggled, and made some noise and
resistance. Then I asked it if there was any one in the house at the time but
him? and it did not rap. I then asked if they two were alone? the rapping was
heard. I then asked if Lucretia Pulver worked there at the time? and it
9
answered by rapping; if she had gone away that night? and if Mrs.---- was
gone away also? and the rapping was renewed each time.
There was no rapping heard only when we asked questions.-- I then asked if
any one in Hydesville knew of the murder at the time, except ----? and it
rapped. Then I asked about a number of persons, if they know it? and there
way no rap, until I came to Mrs.----, and when I mentioned her name the
rapping was heard; then if any one but---- and wife knew of it? and I got no
rap,--then if they were all that knew of the murder? and it rapped. I asked if
the body was put in the cellar? and it rapped. I then asked if it was buried in
the different parts of the cellar? and to all my questions there was no rapping,
until I asked if it was near the center? and the rapping was heard.
Charles Redfield then took a candle and went down cellar.--I told him to
place himself in different parts of the cellar, and as he did so, I asked the
question, if a person was over the place where it was buried? and I got no
answer, until he got over a certain place in the cellar, when it rapped. He then
stepped one side, and when I asked the question, there was no noise.--. This
we repeated several times, and we found that whenever he stood over this
one place, the rapping was heard, and whenever be moved away from that
place, there was no rapping in answer to my questions. Mr. Redfield said that
he could hear the noise himself.
I then asked, which way it was carried down cellar; if round through the
outside cellar door? and there was no rapping:--then if it was carried down
through the buttery, by the inside stairway? and the rapping was heard.
I then asked it to rap my age? the number of years of my age. It rapped 30
times. This is my age, and I do not think that any one about here knows my
age, but myself and my own family. I then told it to rap my wife's age? and it
rapped 30 times, which is her exact age: several of us counted it at the time.--
I then asked it to rap A. W. Hyde's age? and it rapped 32, which he says is his
age: he was there at the time, and counted it with the rest of us:-- then
Mrs.A.W. Hyde's age? and it rapped 31 which she said was her age: she was
also there at the time. I then continued to ask it to rap the ages of different
persons, (naming them,) in the room? and it did so correctly, as they all said.
I then asked the number of children in the different families in the
neighborhood? and it told them correctly in the usual way, by rapping. Also,
the number of deaths that had taken place in these families? and it told
correctly. I then asked it, to rap its own age? and it rapped 31 times distinctly.
I then asked it if it left a family? and it rapped. I then asked it to rap the
number of children which it had? It knocked five times; then the number of
girls? and it rapped three times; then the number of boys? and it rapped twice.
10
Before this I had asked if it was a man? and it answered by rapping, that it
was:--if it was a peddler? and it rapped
1 then asked in regard to the time that it was murdered, and in the usual way,
by asking the different days of the week, and the different hours of the day;--
that it was murdered on a Tuesday night, about 12 o'clock. The rapping was
heard only when this particular time was mentioned. When it was asked if it
was murdered on a Wednesday or Thursday or Friday night, &c.? there was
no rapping. I asked if it carried any trunk, and it rapped that it did. Then how
many? It rapped once. In the same way we ascertained that it had goods in its
trunk, and that --- ----took them when he murdered him; and that he had a
pack of goods besides.
I asked. if its wife was living? and it did not rap;--if she was dead, and it
rapped. I then asked it to rap the number of years its wife had been dead? and
it rapped twice. In the same way I ascertained that its children were now all
living;--that they lived in this state,--and after asking if in such and such a
county, (naming over the different counties,) at last when I asked if they lived
in Orleans county? the rapping was heard, and at no other time. This was tried
over several times, and the result was always the same,
I then tried to ascertain the first letters of its name, by calling. over the
different letters of the alphabet. I commenced with A, and asked if that was
the initial of its first name? there was no rapping. When I came to C, the
rapping was heard, and at no other letter in the alphabet. I then asked in the
same way, in regard to the initial of its sir-name; and when I asked if it was
B? the rapping commenced. We then tried all the other letters, but could
get no answer by the usual rapping. I then asked if we could find out the
whole name by reading over all the letters of the alphabet? and there was
no rapping. I then reversed the question, and the rapping was heard I asked
if the murderer would be punished by the law of the land for committing
this murder? there was no knocking. I then reversed the question, and the
knocking was heard. I then asked the reason? and after asking a great many
different questions in regard to it, to which I got no answer, I at last asked
if it was because there was no witnesses of the murder? and it rapped. I
asked if the murderer would be punished hereafter? the rapping was heard
quite loud. I then asked if there was punishment after death? and it
answered, by rapping, that there was. I then asked if it would rap on
Saturday night? the knocking was heard in answer,--and also that it would
continue to rap at times until its bones were found, and then it would rap
no more.
11
There were a good many more questions asked on that night, by myself and
others; which I do not now remember. They were all answered readily in
the same way. I staid in the house until about 12 o'clock, and then came
home. Mr. Redfield and Mr. Fox staid in the house that night.
Saturday night, I went over again, about 7 o'clock. The house was full of
people when I got there; they said it had been rapping some time. I went
into the room. It was rapping in answer to questions when I went in. I went
to asking questions, and asked over the same ones that I did the night
before, and it answered me the same as it did then. I also asked different
questions, and it answered them. Some of those in. the room wanted me to
go out and let some one else ask the questions I did so, and came home.
There were as many as 300 people in and around the house at this time, I
should think. Hiram Soverhill, Esq., and Volney Brown asked it
questions while I was there, and it rapped in answer to them.
I went over again on Sunday, between 1 and 2 o'clock P. M. I went in to
cellar with several others, and had them all leave the house over our
heads; and then I asked, if there had been a man buried in that cellar, to
manifest it by rapping, or any other noise or sign? The moment I asked
the questions, there was a sound like the falling of a stick, about a foot
long and half an inch through, on the floor in the bed-room over our
heads. It did not seem to bound at all; there was but one sound. I then
told Stephen Smith to go right up and examine the room, and see if he
could discover the cause of the noise.--He came back, and said that he
could discover nothing,--that there was no one in the room, or in that part
of the house. I then asked two more questions, and it rapped in the usual
way. We all went up stairs, and made a thorough search around the
rooms, but could find nothing.
I then got a knife and a fork and tried to see if I could make the same
noise by dropping them, but I could not. This was all I heard on Sunday.
There is only one floor, or partition, or thickness between the bed-room
and the cellar--no place where any thing could be secreted to make the
noise. When this noise was heard in the bed-room, I could feel a slight
tremulous motion or jar.
There was some digging in the cellar on Saturday night.--They dug until
they came to water, and then gave it up. The question had been
previously asked, whether it was right that they should dig on that night?
and there was no rapping.--Then, whether it was wrong? and the rapping;
was heard.--Whether they should dig on Sunday? no rapping: on
Monday? and the rapping commenced again. However, some insisted on
digging at this time, and dug accordingly, but with no success.
12
On Monday night heard this noise again, and asked the same questions I
did before, and got the same answers. This is the last time that I have
heard the rapping.
I can in no way account for this singular noise, which others and I have
heard. It is a mystery to me, which I am wholly unable to solve. I am willing
to testify under oath that I did not make the noises or rapping which I and
others heard: that I do not know of any person who did or could have made
them; that I have spent considerable time since then, in order to satisfy
myself as to the cause of it; but cannot account for it on any other ground
than it is supernatural. I lived in the same house about seven years ago, and at
that time never heard any noise of the kind in or about the premises. I have
understood from Johnson and others, who had lived there before--- ----
moved there, that there were no such sounds heard there while they occupied
the house. I never believed in haunted houses, or heard or saw any thing but
what I could account for before; but this I cannot account for as yet.
April 12, 1848. (Signed,) W M. DUESLER.
Statement of Walter Scotten.
I live in the town of Arcadia, about a mile and a half from the residence of
Mr. Fox. I am acquainted with Mr. F. and family, and believe them to be
respectable and upright people. The first time I heard of any thing mysterious
or unaccountable having occurred there, was a week ago last Sunday, at
about 10 o'clock A. M. I went down to meeting, at the schoolhouse in
Hydesville, about 1 o'clock P. M. I went over to Mr. Fox's house, for the
purpose of hearing this noise, if there was any thing to be heard. I did'nt
believe that there was any thing that could not be accounted for, and I went
in order to satisfy my own mind in regard to it. There was about a dozen
people present when I got there. They wanted me to ask it some questions.
I first heard Mrs. Fox's statement of the whole transaction. 1 then
commenced asking questions, and the knocking was heard in answer to them.
They had told me what questions had been asked before. I first asked if it was
right that its body should be found? and it answered by three raps,--if they
continued digging, whether they would find the body? the rapping was then
heard in answer. We then went down cellar, as we thought it would be stiller
there and we would hear it better, and for the purpose of seeing if the same
noises could be heard there that were in the bed room. I asked it how much
money it had in its possession when it was murdered, and to rap the number
13
of hundreds? It rapped five times. I did not know that this question had been
asked before, but they afterwards told me that it had, and that the same
answer was always received. I asked how many feet it was buried below the
surface of the ground? and it rapped ten times. There were a great many more
questions asked, some of which were answered and some were not answered.
Those which were not answered were reversed, and then the rapping was
heard. The question was asked, how many children it left when it was
murdered? and five raps were heard. It was then asked if its wife was living?
and there was no noise;--then, as many years as she was dead, rap? It rapped
twice.
The noise appeared, when we were in the cellar, to come from the ground.
Some thought it was on one side, and some on the other. We could hardly tell
in what direction it come from. It did not sound like any noise that could be
made by rapping or striking, either on the floor or on the ground. I have since
tried to make the same noise in many different ways, but have never
succeeded in imitating it.
Stephen Smith, my wife, Mrs. Fox, Mrs. Losey, Mr. Wm. D. Storer and two
girls, were down in the cellar with me at the time of which I have spoken. I
was in the house but about half an hour, and then came right home.
I have never heard noises there at any other time than this. There had been
digging in the cellar at the time I was there.--They had dug about two feet
and a half, I should think. There was a good deal of water in the hole,
which they said had prevented them from digging any more. (Signed.)
Wednesday, April 12, 1848. WALTER SCOTTEN.
Certificate of Mrs. Elizabeth Jewell.
I am the wife of DAVID JEWELL, and live. but a short distance from the
house occupied by Mr. Fox, where this mysterious noise is heard. I was
called upon to go over there on Friday evening, the 31st of Mach last, at
about 10 o'clock P.M. When I got there, Wm. Duesler was asking questions
in relation to the murder. It was asked if different individuals had committed
this murder, (naming separately different people who had lived in that house,
also some who lived in the neighborhood;) to all of which questions there
were no answers, until it was asked if --- ----was the man who murdered it?
and it answered immediately by rapping. The rapping was quite loud.
14
It was then asked again if the neighbors had injured it--to wit: Mr. Jewell? or
Mr. Hyde? &c., but there was no noise in answer to these questions.It was
then asked if it was murdered in this room? naming the bed-room, and the
rapping was heard. Where it was buried? if in the cellar? Rap! rap! How was
the body conveyed to the cellar? by the outside door? No rap. Was it by the
inside door, down through the buttery? and the rapping was then heard
distinctly.
Many other questions were asked in relation to the murder; the depth under
the surface of the earth the body was buried,--the amount of money that was
obtained by the murderer, &c., and we got distinct answers in the usual way,
by this knocking.
I visited the place again on the next Saturday evening, April 1st
, and heard the
same questions asked, together with many others, and got distinct answers in
the usual way. I asked the following questions: Is Mr.--- ----your murderer?
and it rapped distinctly. Did he murder you on a Saturday night? No rapping;
on Sunday night? on Monday night? No noise;--on Tuesday night? and then
the raps were heard. At what hour? was it at nine o'clock? ten o'clock? eleven
o'clock? No rapping. Was it at twelve o'clock? Then the rapping was
distinctly heard by all in the room. Many questions were asked, and no
answers heard; but when the questions were reversed, they were answered.
I have visited the place several times since, and have heard no unusual noise
until yesterday, (April 13th) about nine o'clock A.M., Mrs. Fox inquired if it
would answer for me? and it rapped. She asked how many moments it was
dying when it was murdered? there were six raps, louder than 1 ever heard it
before. How many hours the body lay in that room? It rapped six times. Is ---
----sorry he committed the murder? Rap, rap. How many coats did Mrs.--- -
rip to pieces and alter over after the murder? it rapped two? Rap a little
louder? and the rap was more distinct. Did those coats belong to the murdered
man? there was one rap.
A great many other questions were asked at this time, which I do not now
recollect, and they were all answered one way or the other. The rapping was
more distinct at this interview, than I ever heard it before.
I never have been a believer in supernatural appearances on earth, and never
have seen or heard any thing before which I could not account for in some way
or other. This I am wholly at a loss to account for, unless it is a supernatural
appearance. I have been acquainted with Mr. Fox and family some time, and
cheerfully certify that I never saw any thing in their conduct, or heard any
thing about them, that would lead me to suppose that they would be guilty of
15
carrying on any trickery in order to deceive the public: on the contrary, I have
always looked upon them as honest, upright people, and good neighbors.
I knew of Mrs.-----, some years ago, ripping up and coloring an overcoat for
Mr.-----, and making it over again.--She stated as a reason for so doing, that
it had faded.
Should I be called upon, I would willingly testify to the truth of the above
statement. (Signed,)
April 14th, 1848. ELIZABETH JEWELL.
Certificate of Lorren Penny.
I was at Duesler's on Friday night, the 31st of March.--While there, I heard
that strange noises had been heard in Mr. Fox’s house, just across the road;
so I went over there, and went into the house. Mr. Hyde and wife, Mr.
Redfield and wife, Mr. Duesler and wife, and several others, were there at
that time. While there, Duesler asked a good many questions about its being
murdered. After asking a good many questions, we found out by the rapping
that it was murdered in that house,-- that it was murdered by having its throat
cut with a butcher knife, on a Tuesday night, about 12 o'clock,--that its body
was buried in the cellar, about ten feet under ground. It was then asked where
abouts in the cellar the body was buried? if on the north side? or on the south
side, &c., but no rapping. Then if it was buried in the center of the cellar?
and the rapping commenced again.
Mr. Redfield went into the cellar and walked around, and the question was
asked if any person was over the place where it was buried? Whenever Mr.
Redfield was near the center of the cellar, the rapping was distinctly heard;
but whenever he moved to any different place, there was no sound. Mr. Red-
field said that he could hear the noise himself. He (Mr. D.) then asked which
way the body was carried down cellar? in through the outside cellar door? No
rapping. If through the buttery, down the inside stairway? and then the raps
were heard. It was then asked to rap the age of some of those in the room,
which it did, as they all said, correctly. The question was then asked as to the
number of children in the different families in the neighborhood, and it
rapped them right. It was then asked to rap its own age, and it rapped thirty-
one times which we all counted.
A great many other questions were asked while I was there and answered. I
have heard Wm. Duesler's statement about what took place on this evening,
16
and the same is correct so far as I know. I was not there all the time that he
was.
I have no doubt but what Mr. Fox and family are honest, and that they tell the
truth about this matter. I do not think that they or Wm. Duesler are carrying
on any game to deceive the public. It makes a great deal of trouble for Mr.
Fox and his family. They are thronged with visitors, and broken of the rest,
&c.
I could not be deceived about this noise, for I heard it very distinctly, and
cannot in any way account for it. I think it cannot be caused by any person in
the house. The house has been searched from top to bottom, and nothing
found that could make this noise. 1 did not go there believing that there was
anything in it; but supposed that it was some trickery or deception.
12th April, 1848. (Signed,) LORREN PENNY.
Certificate of James Bridger.
1 was at this house on Friday night, with many others. I went there with Mr.
Penny. [Bridger's statement in regard to the noises or rappings and the
questions to which they were answers, was the same as that of Mr. Penny and
other.] I cannot in any way imagine how these noises can be made by any
human means. If it had been heard but on one or two occasions, I should not
think it such a mystery, but should be satisfied that some one was cutting up
some caper, in order to alarm Mr. Fox's people. But now 1 think that this is
impossible.
April 12th, 1848. (Signed,) JAMES BRIDGER.
Statement of Chauncey P. Losey.
A week ago last Saturday night, I was at Mr. Fox's. I went there because I had
heard that there were noises heard there that could not be accounted for. There
were a great many people there when I got there. I should think that there was
nearly four hundred in and about the house during the evening. There were a
great many questions asked in relation to its murder, and they were answered
by its rapping. Mr. Duesler was asking questions part of the time, and I heard
the rapping distinctly in answer to them.
17
From what I know of Duesler, I should have no doubt but what his statements
were true, even if I had not heard the same rapping in answer to the same
questions of which he has spoken; but he has stated the truth in his account of
this affair, so far as 1 know. I do not think that he had any hand in making
these noises. I was within hearing of the noise about an hour. I could not tell
where it seemed to be. It was unaccountable. It sounded as if it was in different
places at different times. If it was any human being that made the noise, it
must have moved around from one place to another. I think that no human
being could have answered all the questions that .were answered by this
rapping,--the telling the ages of different persons, &c., &c. There is no place
between the room and cellar where any thing or any body could be secreted to
make the noise. I should think there were nearly one hundred who said they
heard it during this evening. They all seemed to think it was a great mystery,
and were unable to account for it, although some did not think there was any
thing supernatural about it.
April 12th, 1848. (Signed,) CHAUNCEY P. LOSEY.
Statement of Benjamin F Clark.
A week ago last Sunday I was at Mr. Fox's, with Duesler and Stephen Smith.
We went into the cellar. There was no one in the rooms above: they had been
all fastened out. Some questions were asked. and l heard the rapping in
answer to them. I think Mr. Duesler asked it if it was a murdered man, to
manifest it by a loud rapping, or some other noise or sign. At that moment a
loud noise or rap was heard over our heads. It seemed to be about as loud a
noise as would be caused by dropping a knife or fork on to the floor, only it
did not appear to bound at all. It seemed like one dead blow upon the floor,
and nothing more. Smith went up stairs as quick as he could go, to see what it
was; but he said that he could find nothing.We all went up then, and made a
thorough search about the rooms. There was no body in that part of the house
at that time but ourselves. We could find nothing on the floor that could have
made this noise. We tried to made a similar sound by dropping a case knife
and a stick, but could not--there would be some bound to it. We heard some
other rapping at this time, and were a little startled by what had occurred.
12th April, 1848. (Signed.) BENJAMIN F.CLARK.
18
Statement of Mrs. Elizabeth Fox.
I live about two miles and a half from the house where these noises have
been heard. The first I heard about the noise, was a week ago last Friday. On
Saturday I heard of it again, and went down to the house for the purpose of
seeing what it was. John D. Fox, who lives in the house, is my father-in-law.
I did not go down there until Saturday evening. There were a great many
people there at the time. 1 heard the rapping soon after I got there. Wm.
Duesler was in the bed-room, asking questions. He asked if it was murdered
in that room, and it rapped. It also rapped when asked if it was buried in the
cellar. He then asked if the remains were under water? and it rapped.
I did not stay in the room but a few minutes. There were so many there that
they kept going out and in every few minutes, so that they could all have a
chance to hear the noise. There were committees appointed by those present,
and stationed, some in the cellar and some about the house in different
places, in order to ascertain the cause of this rapping. I believe they began to
dig before I came away that night. I staid at Wm. Duesler's that night.
The next morning I went over to the house and went into the bed-room and
asked questions. There was no one else present at that time, in or about the
house. but Mr. Fox and his family. I sent one of the little girls out doors to
see that there was no one about there to make the noise. I then asked how
many children I had? and it rapped three. How old they were? and it rapped
their ages,--and rapped them correctly. Then, if it was murdered in the bed-
room and buried in the cellar? and it rapped as before. I then asked how
many years it had been dead? and it rapped four times, and then, after a short
interval, one more. If --- ----was the murderer? and it rapped. If he would be
punished in this world? there was no knocking. If he would be in the world to
come? and the knocking was heard before I could get the words fairly out of
my mouth.
Mrs. Wm. Duesler came over about this time, and went into the room to ask
some questions alone. She soon came out, looking pale as death. She said
that she had asked a question and it had been answered.
People called through the day. and heard the noises until almost night, when
they ceased. Stephen Smith and wife and my husband and myself, staid in the
house that night. We all slept in this bed-room, but did not hear any noise
during the night. I went home on Wednesday morning, and have not been
down there since until to-day. To-day (Wednesday,) I went into the bed-room
soon after I got down there, and asked a few questions and they were
answered by the usual rapping. Most of the questions which I asked were the
same as had been asked before, and I got the same answers. Miss Culver was
19
with me most of the time, and heard the questions and answers. I then went
down and sat on the cellar stairs, and asked how many children it had at the
time of its death? and it rapped five times,-- how many sons? Two raps,--how
many daughters? Three,--how many of them are christians? Three,--do they
often think of you? the rapping came loud and distinct. I then asked it if it
could appear to me? and it rapped,--if it would, if I asked it to? It did not rap.
1 then asked it to rap my age distinctly, and we counted twenty-three, which
is my age. I asked if there were not a great many unbelievers, and those who
made sport of it? The knocking was heard in reply. I then asked it to rap
louder, and it did so. I asked it to rap as loud as I did, and I rapped quite loud
with my hand, and the sound came just as loud. It seemed as if it was right
under my feet They heard it rap all over the house, at this time. I asked if it
would answer any one in the house? and it did not rap at all. I asked it many
other questions, and the rapping was continued until within an hour or two.
I cannot account for these noises in any way, nor imagine how they could be
made by any human means.
April 12th, 1848. (Signed,) ELIZABETH FOX.
I was present to-day, at the time Mrs. Elizabeth Fox has spoken of as having
heard these rappings, and I heard the same sounds in answer to the questions
as she has stated. I have never been there before to hear the noise since the
excitement first commenced.
April 12th, 1848. (Signed.) VERNELIA CULVER.
Statement of Wm. D. Storer.
I have lived in this place about five years. I first heard about a strange noise
being heard in Mr. Fox’s house, on Saturday morning, April 1st. I did not go
there until that night about 7 o'clock. I should think there was over two
hundred people there during the evening. I went into the house and heard the.
noise: it seemed to be on the floor. Mr. Duesler was asking questions. He
asked it to rap its age, and it rapped thirty-one. Then he asked if --- ----
murdered it? and it rapped.—Mr. D. had been asking questions before in
regard to its having been murdered, &c. I was not in the room but about 15 or
20 minutes. He asked it if the Universalist doctrine was true? and there was
no noise; then, if it was false? and it rapped three time. He also asked if the
20
Methodist doctrine was true? and it rapped. If it had a wife? Rap! rap! How
many children? It rapped five times.
I do not recollect any other questions that were asked during the short time
that I was in the room. I staid there until about 10 o'clock, and then went
home. They had not begun to dig, but were talking about it, when I came
away.
The next day, (Sunday,) I heard the rapping in the cellar. Walter Scotten and
wife, Mr. Losey, and some others. were there also. Mr. Scotten and wife
asked the questions. There was no one in the house above. It was asked if it
had been murdered? and it rapped. If --- ----had done it? and the rapping was
heard. If they should find the body by digging? and the knocking was heard.
Mrs. Scotten asked how many children she had? and it rapped twice, which
was correct.
I then told Mr. Scotten to ask it if a man's heart must be changed before he
could enter the kingdom of heaven? and it rapped that it must. This noise
appeared to be about a foot or 18 inches under ground, when we were in the
cellar: it sounded something like a thumping upon the ground. We heard it
very plain on Sunday, as the house was still.
I cannot imagine any way by which this noise could be produced by any
human agency. I have examined the premises very carefully, and can find
nothing by which these sounds could be produced; no cord or wire, or any
thing of that kind by which any body could produce these sounds by being at
a distance.--There is no chance under the floor where any thing could be
secreted--no ceiling or any thing of that kind. I have never heard the noise at
any other time since.
I have always supposed, and have no doubt but what Mr. Fox and family are
candid and honest people; and I do not think that they have any hand in
carrying on any trickery for the purpose of deceiving this community. This
disturbance has put them to a great deal of trouble, and they certainly can have
no object in carrying on such a deception, even were it possible that they could
do so.
12th
April, 1848. (Signed,) WM. D. STORER.
Statement of Marvin P. Losey.
I first heard this noise one week ago last Saturday evening. I have heard Mr.
Storer's statement above, in regard to what occurred on that night, and the
21
same is true and correct. I heard the same sounds in answer to the same
questions, of which he has spoken. I went into the cellar with Carlos Hyde,
George Bridger, and Ezekiel Dailey. Mr. Duesler was up above in the bedroom
asking questions. He told all those in the cellar but one, to stand to one place,
and then told that one (Mr. Hyde) to step about from one place to another,
which was done, and Mr. Duesler at the same time asked the question, if there
was any one over the place where its body was buried? This question was
asked a number of times, as Mr. Hyde stepped about from one place to
another, but there was no rapping in answer to it, until Mr. Hyde stood about
in the center of the cellar, when the question was answered by several distinct
raps. We all heard this noise or knocking. Mr. Duesler told us that Mr. Hyde
was over the place, although he could not see us, nor had he any other means
of knowing where he was than by the rapping. This was tried over a number of
times, and with the same result. Mr. Duesler asked all of the questions in the
same tone of voice, so that nothing could be indicated by that. I could not tell
where this noise appeared to be, although it seemed to be in the cellar.
I do not think it possible that this could be carried on by any person without
being detected.
I heard it after this. I was in the bedroom, with my hand on the bedstead. Mrs.
Fox asked if--- ----murdered the man whose body was buried in the cellar?
The rapping was very loud and plain; it seemed to jar the bedstead. I heard the
same question asked by Mr. Duesler, and the same answer was given. I have
not heard this noise since that evening.
April 12, 1848. (Signed,) MARVIN P. LOSEY.
Statement of David S. Fox.
I live about two miles from the house where these strange noises have been
heard. My father, John Fox, lives in this house, and has lived here some five or
six months. I have lived in this place about ten years. The first that I heard
about these noises, was a week ago last Friday. When they told me about it, I
told them that if they searched, I guessed they would find a cause for it, as it
must be something about the house. I did not hear any noises at this time; but
after staying there a short time, went home.
The next morning they sent for me, and told me that the noises had again been
heard. I went down there on Saturday evening, and heard questions asked by
22
different individuals, and they were answered by rapping. They were not all
answered. It was asked if it was murdered on the different nights of the week?
and there was no answer until it was asked if it was murdered on a Tuesday
night? when it was answered in the usual way, by rapping. It was then
ascertained in the same way, that it was murdered about 12 o'clock at night, on
that night, by having its throat cut with a butcher knife. It was then asked to
rap the number of years old it was at the time of its murder, and it rapped
thirty-one times, so distinctly that we could all count the number of sounds.
There was a large collection of people there at this time, many more than
could get into the house. Committees were chosen and placed in different parts
of the house in order to see that there was no deception practiced by any one.
These committees were composed of the neighbors and people who live about
here.
Questions were asked as to who committed the murder.--[Before this it had
answered that it was the spirit of a murdered man.] It was asked if Mr. Duesler
had committed the murder? and there was no knocking. Then it was asked if
Mr. Feasler was the one? Mr. Johnson? and several others, who had formerly
live in the house, and there was no answer given. The question was then asked
if Mr. --- ----was the one who had murdered it? The rapping was then heard
several times. It was then asked if Mr.--- ----was alone with him when the
murder was committed? and it rapped that he was. It was then asked if Mrs. ---
- knew it at the time? and there was no noise; if she was ignorant of it? the
knocking was heard,--if it was murdered for money? then it knocked,--then if
for one hundred?--three hundred?--four hundred? No rapping,--five hundred?
and it rapped that it was. It then rapped that it was a married man, and it had
five children at the time it was murdered. This was in answer to questions that
were asked it by those present.
I understood that nearly the same questions were asked the night before, and
the same answers obtained. The questions were put in every shape, and there
was no contradiction at any time, so that I am satisfied that these noises could
not be produced by chance. The questions were asked and answered in such a
manner, that I do not believe it possible that any human being could be
engaged in it, and carry on the deception so long without being found out.
There is no place about the house in which any person could be secreted so as
to produce these sounds. There is only one floor between this bed-room and
the cellar. The question was then asked in regard to the place in which it was
buried in the cellar. It was asked successively if it was buried in each corner,
and there was no answer. It was then asked if it was buried in the center? and it
rapped that it was. Mr. Carlos Hyde was in the cellar, and he walked about, and
the question was repeated if he was over the place where the body was buried?
23
and there was no rapping, only when he stood over the center of the cellar; no
one out of the cellar could see him, so as to know where he was standing at
this time. Whenever he stood near the center of the cellar, it rapped, so that
those in the cellar as well as in the room above could hear it.
I staid in the house until about one o'clock in the morning, but the noise had
stopped before I left. It stopped a little before twelve o'clock. After some of
the crowd had left, some of the people went to digging in the cellar. They dug
about three feet deep, when the water came in so fast that they had to stop. I do
not know that I .have heard the noise since until to-day.--It has been rapping
to-day in answer to a good many questions, and gave the same answers that it
has before.
I was here on Monday the 3d of April, and we commenced digging again in
the cellar and bailing out the water, but we found it impossible to make much
headway. On Tuesday evening they began digging again. I got a pump, and we
took up the floor and put it in the hole, and began to pump and bail out the
water at the same time. We could not lower the water much, and had to give it
up. The water is in the hole, although it is lowering gradually.
1 thought from there being so many respectable people present, and they
having heard the same sounds that I did, that there must be something in it. I
never believed in haunted houses, or anything of that kind. I have heard of
such things, but never saw or heard any thing but what I could account for, on
reasonable grounds. I cannot account for this noise as being produced by any
human agency. I am perfectly willing to take my oath as to the truth of the
statements which I have here made, if it is thought necessary.
Tuesday, April 11th, 1848. (Signed,) DAVID S. FOX.
Statement of Mrs. Mary Redfield.
I am acquainted with Mr. Fox and family, who live in the house where these
strange noises are heard. I was called upon by Mr. Fox, on the evening of the
last day of March, about 8 o'clock, to go to his house to hear this mysterious
noise, and having previously heard from the children that they had heard
strange noises in the night, I went over. I went with a good deal of levity,
saying that I would go over and have a spree with it, if it was a ghost. Mrs.
Fox met me at the bed-room door, and she and the girls appeared to be much
agitated. They looked very pale. Mrs. F. said, “ Mrs. Redfield, what shall we
do? we have heard this noise for some time, and now it answers all of our
questions, and we cannot account for it." She wanted me to sit down on the
bed by her side, and then she began to ask questions. "Now count five?" It
24
did so distinctly by rapping. "Count fifteen;" and it rapped fifteen times. She
then asked it to rap my age, and it rapped thirty-three times, so that we all
counted it. This is my age. “If you are an injured spirit manifest it by three
raps.” It rapped three times. By this time I became much interested--the girls
were much frightened. I told them not to be afraid--that if it was a revelation
from the spirit world, it was not to injure them. One of them then said, with
much feeling, “we are innocent --how good it is to have a clear conscience."
Many other questions were then asked, relative to the murdered man,--his
family,--the time of the murder,--who the murderer was,--and amount of
money for which he was murdered --the place where the body was buried:--
and we got distinct answers by the usual raps, as stated by Mrs. Fox, Mr.
Duesler, and others.
A great many other questions were asked, some of which were answered and
some were not. Upon reversing those to which there were no answers, and the
rapping was heard, but if we reversed those which were answered, there would
be no answers at all. Many other neighbors were called in, and heard the
mysterious noise with a great deal of astonishment. They all said they could
not account for it.
I visited the house again day before yesterday, (Wednesday,) about 7 o’ clock
P.M. I went into the bed-room with others, and knelt down upon the floor by
the side of the bed, and asked if there was a heaven to obtain? and got three
raps.--is my child Mary in heaven? Then knocking was heard in answer.
These questions, and others, were asked while in the attitude of prayer to the
Supreme Being for a revelation of these mysterious noises to me. Another
lady in the room remarked that she was afraid. I told her that God would
protect her, and at that moment we heard several distinct raps. Many
questions were asked, some of which were answered, and some were not. I
asked it if it was a spirit from God? and it rapped,--are the spirits of our
departed friends now around us? The rapping was heard.
I never have been a believer in supernatural appearances on earth, and have
never heard any unnatural noises previous to this, which I could not account
for. But I cannot in any way imagine how this is produced by any human
means. I have been acquainted with Mr. John Fox and family for a number of
years, and have always looked upon them as honest and upright people; and do
not think that they have any hand in producing this strange noise.
Should I ever be called upon to testify to the truthfulness of the above
statement, I shall do so cheerfully.
14th April, 1848. (Signed,) MARY REDFIELD.
25
Thus this strange affair as yet remains. It seems to be beyond the power of
human ingenuity to solve the thrilling mystery that surrounds it. These
certificates and statements will satisfy any man who has sufficient confidence
in his fellows to trust them in the ordinary affairs of business, that something
at least has occurred in that quiet little ville, which as yet baffles all
investigation. There is no one, we trust, so uncharitable as to say that all
these honest and intelligent people, whose statements we have given, have
combined together, in the nineteenth century and in this enlightened land, for
the purpose of producing the great excitement which now prevails. They
certainly could have no object to do so; they have no unity of interests that
will be advanced by any such combination; for the age when ghostly
appearances and supernatural noises were made the instruments in the hands
of the more intelligent, of extortion and tyranny over the more ignorant and
superstitious, has passed away.
These statements, which we have given. are but a small number in
comparison with those which might have been obtained, had it been deemed
necessary,---but it was thought that they were sufficient to satisfy even the
most incredulous as to the facts set forth. Giving, then, to them the ordinary
credence which we give to the solemn assertions of others, what conclusion
shall we draw in regard to this strange affair? "Shall we let the world know
that we believe this to be a supernatural appearance?" asks one, who cannot
account for it on any other ground. “Why, how the people will laugh at us if
we do!!" The artillery of the press, as well as private sarcasm, we think will
prevent the present generation from adopting superstitious notions too
readily. Yet who of those who laugh and sneer, can bound the spirit-land, or
tell us its connection with the material world? Who can tell us its limits in the
vastness of space? or assert that the spirits of the departed are not hovering
around us,---influencing our destiny, although that influence may be unseen
and unfelt? Even in life, we are often awed by the mysterious workings of the
human soul. Although it be harnessed down to earth, it will now and then
escape from its thralldom, and as a gleam of lightning from an evening cloud.
"Paints crimson beauties on a sister cloud,
And with its light, illumes the starless firmament.”
So will it shine for a short moment through the world of souls around it, and
then sink back again to its prison house. If the spirit of Swedenborg could thus "
shuffle off its mortal coil," and reveal the coming of future events, and be
cognizant of things that were taking place at a great distance, and then resume
its ordinary avocation,---why cannot the spirits of the dead come back and
reveal to us that which would otherwise be unknown? "Dead men tell no tales,"
is a motto with which we are met at this point;---the horrible principle that
26
characterizes the operations of the buccaneers upon the ocean!---and yet, ask
Gibbs, and Gilbert, and Swansey, who expiated their murderous career upon the
scaffold, if the spirits of their victims did not haunt them by day and night,
causing them to betray the strongest evidences of their guilt that could be
produced, and that which was most satisfactory to those on whom their fate
depended. They would repeat to you, with their last breath, the warning words
of Macbeth, as the ghost of Banquo appeared to him,---
“The times have been
That, when the brains were out, the man would die,
And then an end;--but now, they rise again,
With twenty mortal murders on their crowns,
And push us from our scats. This is more strange
Than such a murder!!”
But the statements which we have given are not all we have, which throw light
upon this affair, and such a light as will satisfy every one that there is
reasonable ground for this excitement, and for the belief that this appearance is
in reality the spirit of a victim to man's murderous avarice, hovering about the
spot where its "vital chord was rudely disengaged;" for the purpose of revealing
to mankind its untimely fate; and above all, for the purpose of teaching to those
who are shedders of human blood, that “murder will out.” These statements are
from sources which are to be relied upon, and come from those who could have
no earthly motive in fabricating them:
Statement of Mrs. Hannah Weekman.
We have lived in this place about five months. I have heard about these
mysterious noises that have been heard in the house now occupied by Mr.
Fox. We used to live in the same house; we lived there about a year and a half,
and moved from there here. About a year ago, while we were living there, we
heard some one, as we supposed, rapping on the outside door. I had just got into
bed, but my husband had not. He went to the door and opened it; and said that
there was no one there; and he came back and was about getting into bed, when
we heard the rapping upon the door again. He then went to the door and
opened it, and said that he could see no one although he stepped out a little
ways. He then came back and got into bed. He was quite angry: he thought ‘t
was some of the neighboring boys that were trying to disturb us, and said that
"they might knock away, but they would not fool him," or something of that
kind. The knocking was heard again, and after a while he got up and went to
the door and went out. I told him not to go out doors, for perhaps somebody
wanted to get him out and hurt him. He came back and said he could see
nothing. We heard a good deal of noise during that night; we could hardly tell
27
where it was; it sounded sometimes as if some one was walking about in the
cellar. But the house was old, and we thought it might be a rattling of some
loose boards, or something of that kind.
A few nights afterwards, one of our little girls who slept in the bedroom
where the noises are now heard, woke us all up by screaming very loud. My
husband and I and our hired girl, got up immediately to see what was the
matter. She sat up in the bed crying and screaming, and it was some time
before we could find out from her what the matter was. She said that
something had been moving around over her head and face,--that it was cold,
and she did not know what it was. She said that she felt it all over her, but she
appeared to be more alarmed at feeling it in her face. She was very much
frightened.--This was between twelve and one o'clock at night. She got up
and got into bed with us, and it was a long time before she could go to sleep.
It was several days before we could get her to sleep in that room again. She
was eight years old at that time.
Then was nothing else that happened to me during the time that we lived there;
but my husband told me that one night he heard some one call him by name,
somewhere about the house; he did not know where; but could never find out
where or what it was. I was not at home on that night. I was away setting up
with a sick person. We did not think the house was haunted at this time.
I do not believe in spooks, or any thing of that kind; but I hardly know what to
say about it now;--so many have heard the noise that it seems as if something
must be the matter.
Tuesday, 11th April, 1848. (Signed,) HANNAH WEEKMAN.
Statement of Michael Weekman.
I am the husband of HANNAH WEEKMAN. We used to live in the
house now occupied by Mr. Fox, in which they say strange noises are
heard. We lived there about a year and a half. One-
evening, about bed time, I
heard a rapping. I supposed it was some one knocking at the door, who wanted
to come in. I did not bid him come in, as I usually do, but went to the door. I
did not find any one there; but went back, and just as I was getting into bed, I
heard the rapping again, and opened the door quick, but could see no one
there. I stepped out a step or two, but could see no one about there. I then went
back and got into bed. I thought somebody was making game of me. After a
few minutes I heard the knocking again, and after waiting a spell and still
28
hearing it, I got up and went to the door. This time I went clear out and looked
around the house, but could find no one. I then stepped back and shut the door,
and held on to the latch; and thought if there was any one there, I would catch
them at it. In a minute or two I heard the rapping again. My hand was on the
door, and the knocking appeared to be on the door. I could feel it jar with the
raps. I instantly opened the door and sprang out, but there was no one in sight.
I then went round the house again, but could find no one as before. My wife
told me I had better not go out doors, as it might be that some one wanted to
hurt me. I did not know what to think of it, it seemed so strange and
unaccountable.
The second time that we were disturbed in any way was, by our little girl who
slept in the bed-room. She woke us up one night by her screaming. [His
statement in regard to this is the same as that of Mrs. Weekman, given above.]
One night after this, about midnight, I was awake, and heard my name called.
It sounded as if it was on the south side of the room. I set up in bed and
listened, but did not hear it again. I did not get out of bed, but waited to see if
it would be repeated. My wife was not at home that night. I told her of it
afterwards, and she said she guessed that I had been dreaming. My wife used
to be frightened quite often by hearing strange noises in and about the house.
I have heard so much from men in whom I place confidence about these noises
that are now heard, that, taken in connection with what I heard, 1 cannot
account for it, unless it is a supernatural appearance. I am willing to make
affidavit to the above statement if necessary.
11th April, 1848. MICHAEL WEEKMAN.
Statement of Mrs. Jane C. Lap.
I am the wife of HENRY LAPE, and am 19 years old. I lived with Mr.
Weekman’s folks, about a year and a half ago, when he occupied the house
where Mr. Fox now lives. I staid there until the spring of ‘47. One day, about
two o'clock P. M., while I was doing my work in the kitchen, I saw a man in
the bed-room joining the kitchen. The bed-room door was open, and I saw the
man distinctly. I was much frightened. I had been in the kitchen some time at
work, and knew that no one had gone into that room. There was only one door
to the bed-room, and that opened into the kitchen. The man stood facing me
when I saw him. He did not speak, nor did I hear any noise at any time, like a
person walking or moving about in the room. He had on grey pants, black
frock coat and black cap. He was about middling size, I should think. 1 knew of
29
no person in that vicinity who wore a similar dress. Mrs. Weekman was in
another part of the house at this time I was very much frightened and left the
room, and when I returned with Mrs. W. there was no person there. She
thought that it was some one who had been trying to frighten me; but we were
never able to ascertain who or what it was. I have always thought, and still do
think, that that was a supernatural appearance. I never had been a believer in
such things until I saw this.
Should I ever be called upon to testify to the truthfulness of the above
statement, I would do so cheerfully.
Sodus, 17th April, 1848. (Signed,) JANE C. LAPE.
Statement of Miss Lucretia Pulver.
I live about a mile and a half north of the house occupied by Mr. Fox, in which
it is said that noises are heard. I have always lived in this vicinity. I have not
heard these noise since they have produced this excitement. 1 am now 19 years
old. I lived in this house all one winter, in the family of Mr.----. I worked for
them part of the time, and part of the time I boarded there and went to school. I
lived there about three months. During the latter part of the time that I was
there, I heard this knocking frequently, in the bed-room, under the foot of the
bed. I heard it a number of nights, as I slept in the bed-room all of the time I
staid there.
One night I thought I heard a man walking in the buttery. This buttery is near
the bed-room, with a stairway between them. Miss Aurelia Losey staid with
me on that night; she also heard the noise, and were both much frightened, and
got up and fastened down the windows and fastened the door. It sounded as if
the person walked through the buttery, down cellar, and part way across the
cellar bottom, and there the noise ceased. There was no one else in the house
at this time, except my little brother, who was asleep in the same room with
us. This was about 12°o'clock, I should think. We did not go to bed until after
11, and had not been asleep when we heard the noise. Mr. and Mrs.---- had
gone to Lock Berlin, to be gone until the next day.
We did'nt hear any thing more that night. We were a good deal alarmed, but
after a while got over it. We thought it might be Mr *--- *----, because I heard
Mrs. ---- say that she had often heard somebody around the house, and that she
believed it was this man, for that she thought he would steal. I heard nothing
more after this but the rapping, which continued as before.
30
One evening about a week after this, Mrs.---- sent me down cellar to shut the
outside door. In going across the cellar, I fell down near the center of it. It
appeared to be uneven and loose in this place. After I got up stairs, Mrs. ----
asked me what 1 screamed for, and I told her; she laughed at me for being
frightened, and said that it was only where the rats had been at work in the
ground. A few days after this, Mr.---- carried a lot of dirt into the cellar just at
night, and was at work there some time. Mrs ---- told me that he was filling up
the rat holes.
A few days before the time when I first heard these noises, or any thing of this
kind had ever occurred, a foot pedler called there, about two o'clock in the
afternoon. Mrs.---- told me that Mr.---- tho’t they should not want to hire me
anymore, and that I might go home, but that if they wanted me any more, they
would send for me. Mrs.---- was going to Lock Berlin to stay that night. 1
wanted to buy some things of the pedler, but had no money with me, and he
said he would call at our house the next morning and sell them to me. I never
saw him after this. About three days after this, they sent for me to come back
and board with them and go to school. I accordingly came back, and went to
school about a week; when she wanted I should stay out of school and do the
housework, as she had got a couple of coats to fix over for her husband. She
said that they were rather too large for him, and out of fashion, and she must
alter them. These coats were ripped to pieces when I saw them.
I should think this pedler, of whom I have spoken, was about 30 years old. I
heard him conversing with Mrs.----about his family: he told how many
children he had, in answer to her inquiries. 1 do not recollect now how many
he said he had. Mrs.---- told me that he was an old acquaintance of theirs; that
she had seen him several times before.
A short time after this Mrs.---- gave me a thimble, which she said she had
bought of this pedler and paid him fifty cents for. About three months after
this time I visited her, and she said that this pedler had been there again, and
showed me another thimble which she said she had bought of him. She said
that he had cheated her; that he sold it to her for pure silver, but that it was
only German silver. She also showed me some other things, which she said
she had bought of him.
I did not know what to think of those noises which I heard. I did not know but
what it might be rats, as Mrs.----said. I did'nt think it was anything
supernatural at the time their dog would sit under the bed room window,
sometimes most all night, and howl; and this made me think that there was
somebody about there that wanted to steal. Mr. and Mrs.-----appeared to be
31
very good folks, only they were rather quick tempered. I never had any
difficulty with them during the time that I staid there.
This pedler carried a trunk,--and a basket, I think, with vials of essence in it.
He wore a black frock coat, and light colored pants. I am willing to swear to
the above statement, if it is necessary.
April 11th, 1848. (Signed,) LUCRETIA PULVER.
S t a t e m e n t o f M r s . A n n a P u l v e r .
I was acquainted with Mr. and Mrs.----. I used to call on them frequently. My
warping bars were in their chamber, and I used to go there to do my work. One
morning when I went there, Mrs.---- told me that she felt very bad; that she
had not slept much of any the night before. When I asked her what the matter
was? she said that she did not know but what it was the fidgets;---but that she
thought that she heard somebody walking about, from one room to another,
and that she had Mr.---- get up and fasten the windows down. She said that she
felt more safe after that. I asked her what she thought it was? and she said that
it must be the rats, she thought. I heard her speak about hearing noises after
that, which she could not account for.
April 11th
, 1848. (Signed,) ANNA PULVER.
We, the undersigned, do hereby certify, that during the summer of ‘44 we
lived near the house now occupied by Mr. Fox; that it was then occupied by---
-----; that during that summer the water in that well was very offensive and
bad. We further certify that said well is within thirty feet of the center of the
cellar under said house.
NORMAN AYRES,
Arcadia, April 18th
, 1848. JOHN IRISH.
32
The following certificate was published and circulated in that community,
about a week after the first revelations were made. We republish it for the
benefit of the man who has unfortunately become the subject of suspicion.
Men should be careful how, on the sole responsibility of an unaccountable
rapping, they pass their judgment upon others. It is time enough to condemn,
when there is no longer ground to doubt. Let public opinion await the result
of the investigations now going-
on. Others than those whose names are upon
this certificate, are ready to join in the following recommendation. This
certificate is signed by many who have heard the rappings in answer to the
questions, as set forth in the foregoing statements:
TO WHOM IT CONCERNS.
We, the undersigned, hereby certify, that we have been acquainted with
JOHN C. BELL, of the town of Lyons, in the county of Wayne, for the last
five years, or thereabouts,-- that. we were acquainted with said Bell when
he lived in the town of Arcadia, about two years ago, and that we have
ever thought him, and still think him a man of honest and upright
character, incapable of committing crime; and that during his residence in
Arcadia aforesaid. we never knew anything against his character, or heard
any one speak ill of him nor do we believe that he is a man that would do
any injury to his neighbor, or any one else, intentionally: And having
heard foolish and superstitious reports against him, we cheerfully give
our names to the above certificate.
Luther Sanford, William Parker, Andrew Traver, Ruth Sanford, Hiram
Knapp, Samuel B. Powers, Charles Hudson, Wm T Hudson, David
Vanhoosen, John M Power, David Jewell, John R Hyde, H Vanhoosen,
Norman Ayres, H Vanhoosen, Jr. Elizabeth Jewell, John H Bishop, P R
Houghton, Isaac B White, Humphrey Sherman, Nathan Drake, William
Drake, Mrs A W Hyde, Miss Mary B Mighells, Miss Martha Ayres, E
Stebbins, Andrew Vanderhoof, Henry Miller, D J Hughson, Alfred Mayer,
James Whitney, J A Burrows, C C Hyde, James Thompson, Edwin Ayres,
Charlotte Ayres, Artemas W Hyde, John Power, Harvey C Hyde, Wm D
Storer, George Galloway, Caleb P Tibbits, James B Tibbits, J M Everts,
Dated Arcadia, Wayne Co., N.Y., April 5, 1848.
These are the substance of the astounding developments that have recently
come to light in that neighborhood. Taken in connection with the
unaccountable revelations that have been made by this mysterious rapping,
who can longer doubt the supernatural origin of this noise?
33
Upon the perusal of these statements many, "wise in their own conceit," will
say that “If they could visit the place and hear these knockings, they would
soon discover the cause of them." Hundreds have been there, firm in the
same faith; have first carefully examined the premises; have gone into the
ghostly presence, still incredulous and disposed to treat the affair with
levity; have held converse with the unknown one, until the cold sweat
oozing from every pore has coursed down their limbs, and they have been
compelled to acknowledge that they felt themselves in the presence of one
from the spirit-country.
But let those who are so incredous as to disbelieve statements, remember that
the laws which govern the spiritual world, are not those which were taught
them in their school-boy days, as ruling the physical;--that the weapons of
ridicule and disbelief with which they must produce in candid minds, are the
same as those used by Hume and Voltaire against the divine origin of the
miracles recorded in the New Testament. Their ridicule and reasoning is like
that of the king of Siam who caused the Siberian traveller to be impaled for
saying that “the waters of his own country were sometimes so hardened by
the cold that man and beast could pass over them." They will not believe any
thing which cannot be tested by their own senses; and even then they had
rather allow that they had been duped through human agency than admit that
they have been convinced, against their former disbelief in supernatural
appearances.
Many have been accused of carrying on this mysterious affair, merely for
their own amusement, and many like ourselves have visited the place in the
full belief that they would be able to detect the imposition. But they have
all returned no wiser than they went.
Time will probably determine whether this be a visitation from the spiritual-
world or not. Whatever may be the result, we now leave the cause in the
hands of the public; like a member of the legal profession, when resting his
case with the jury,--we are willing to abide by its decision--reserving the
privilege however of excepting to its judgment if against us.
$50 REWARD!
The subscriber hereby pledges himself to pay the above mentioned sum to any
person or persons who will satisfy him in any way, that this mysterious
appearance or rapping is, and has been during all the time that it has been
heard, the work of any human being. They must inform him by what means it
34
has been carried out on, and who the individual is that has done it;--all of
which he will pledge himself to keep a profound secret, if requested. Upon any
person complying with the above, they shall receive the said reward of $50.
E.E. LEWIS, Publisher.
Canandaigua, April 20th, 1848.
