{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/psypioneer.iapsop.com\/psypioneer_v1_n14_jun_2005.pdf","mytitle":"Psypioneer V1 N14 Jun 2005","mylang":"de"}
156
PSYPIONEER
An Electronic Newsletter from London
Volume 1 No14 June 2005
Highlights of this issue
Doubts about control of mediums by Crookes 156
A Communication Landmark 157
The abominable teachings of Spiritualism – A. J. Davis 158
Notes by the way – Survival Research Network 162
Successors to Noah’s Ark ; the noble one hundred 163
Reprinting guidelines ; Free speech and historical material 164
Writing for LIGHT led to loss of job; spelling pitfalls 165
Mrs Britten falsely married; a priceless newsletter 166
His name is John 167
The passing of a man of courage – Where I stand – Maurice Elliott 170
Madame Blavatsky gave post-mortem message 172
Madame Blavatsky, Buddhism and Tibet 172
…………………………………………………………………………………….
DOUBTS ABOUT CONTROL OF MEDIUMS BY CROOKES
A new biography of Anna Eva Fay (1851- 1927) has again cast doubt on whether
William Crookes was as effective as he believed in the testing of mediums.
‘ The Indescribable Phenomenon - the life and mysteries of Anna Eva Fay’, available
from www.hermeticpress.com is a 440 page hardback with many photographs. She is
often confused with her daughter in law Eva Fay (died 1931) Both ladies were vaudeville
performers, even once appearing in 1906 at competing theatres in New York.
As a child in Ohio, Anna (Ann Eliza Heathman originally) was fostered among
Spiritualists where she learnt mediumship. In 1871, she formed a partnership with an
often-exposed fraudulent medium known as H. Melville Fay. After another exposure in
Boston, they found it prudent to move to Britain in 1874. There was some ungentlemanly
competition between the Sidgwick group and Crookes, but eventually she was
exclusively investigated by Crookes who endorsed her phenomena, but only in relation
to one séance. After various complications, including an alleged exposure by her former
manager in London, the Fays returned to America in July 1875, and resumed their pattern
of stage shows and expensive private sittings. In 1876 another manager, Washington
Irving Bishop, again exposed the Fays.
Crookes attempted to control Anna by an electric circuit which would be broken if she
moved. This had previously been used with Florence Cook. There is some doubt that this
157
did prevent movements, and there were in any case ways of eluding it. But meaningful
criticism of Crookes and Anna must focus on this one séance of February 19 1875, and
on its predecessors under similar test conditions, and this biography rightly does so.
In 1913, Anna appeared at the London Coliseum, and in February, she was elected the
first honorary lady associate of the London Magic Circle. Among magicians, she is
widely admired for her technical skill, though she was even more ruthless than Houdini.
The problems for Crookes’ work have been recognised for many years (see for example,
E. J. Dingwall “ The Critic’s Dilemna ‘ 1967).
1) how did Crookes come to endorse Anna, even in relation to one séance, an entertainer exposed
before and after her first visit to London, some one for whom escaping from bonds was central to their
work?
2) what about the strange case of another young lady medium, Rosina Showers, who Crookes said
confessed she was a fake to Anna, though Rosina resumed seances for a time?
3) if Rosina was a fake, what was going on at the joint seances she held with Florence Cook, and each
medium produced a materialised figure and they walked together?
4) is it surprising that by the end of 1875, Mr. and Mrs. Crookes had withdrawn from the Spiritualist
scene? Crookes wrote that he had not obtained conviction of communication, and both the Crookes
wrote of their disillusion with Spiritualists.
………………………………………………………………………….
A COMMUNICATION LANDMARK
Roy Stemman has earned a lifetime achievement award in writing about the paranormal
since his first book ‘ Medium Rare – the Psychic Life of Ena Twigg’ in 1971. Indeed his
official history of the SAGB ‘ One hundred years of Spiritualism’ (1972) is now rare,
though it cost only 75p on publication! He is the best editor ‘ Psychic News’ never had.
A notable feature of his work is that he integrates material from both Spiritualism and
psychical research. And, as years go by, he can also say increasingly that he knew the
characters involved, starting with his years as a writer for Psychic News, then as editor of
‘Alpha’, ‘ Reincarnation International’ and ‘Life and Soul’ (which will return, though it
is in abeyance at present).
‘ Spirit Communication ‘ (www.piatkus.co.uk) is something special. Written with
assistance from Spiritual Truth Foundation, it aspires to be a sequel to such books as
Arthur Conan Doyle’s ‘ History of Spiritualism’ and Maurice Barbanell’s ‘ This is
Spiritualism’. It deals with many aspects of mediumship and Spiritualism in the past fifty
years, except for the organisational side which, to be frank, would not interest most of the
public. The SPR has more mentions in the index than all the Spiritualist bodies put
together.
158
Some of the chapters provide introductions to the subject that are quite outstanding such
as those on’ Recording spirits’,‘ Trance healing’ and ‘ Spiritualism and healing’ How
many writers today can say they attended many of the healing demonstrations of Harry
Edwards? Which Spiritualists have kept up with Ian Stevenson’s rebirth research, like
Stemman has? Who else can deploy the survival case presented by George Chapman the
healer through whom Dr Lang manifests, and which is stronger than that through
ordinary mediumship ? Stemman is also ready often to sound a note of caution about
dubious phenomena.
This is a book which should be used in Spiritualist educational schemes. It is readable
and contemporary (so up to date it notes the disbanding of the Noah’s Ark Society). Its
only significant need is for the source for some items to be more clearly referenced. The
book puts the Spiritualist case. The reader need not agree with the case, but you won’t
find a better popular exposition today.
…………………………………………………………………………………
Introduction
In his book “ Memoranda “, Andrew Jackson Davis reprinted a variety of his notes
from the early days of Spiritualism. Many of these repay research, and we illustrate
this ongoing process by one such memorandum below, taken from “Memoranda of
Persons, Places, and Events..” pages 208-9.
THE ABOMINABLE TEACHINGS OF SPIRITUALISM
BATTLE CREEK, MICH., October 14, 1857.
A GREAT friend of Methodism, and one who edits a journal in the interests of Christ,
opens thus:
From a paper entitled the Illuminati, published under the auspices of the Spiritualists,
we take the following: The third annual meeting of a so-called Religious Association was
held at North Collins, Erie County, New York, on the 25th, 26th, and 27th of September
last. From the minutes of its proceedings, as published in the Age of Progress, we learn
that Andrew J. and Mary F. Davis were prominent among the speakers on the occasion.
The following among other declarations, or "testimonies," indicates the doctrine of Mr.
and Mrs. Davis:
WOMAN AND MARRIAGE.-Resolved,
That woman, being the mother of the world and a coequal with man in the heritage
of immortality, should be favored with every advantage enjoyed by her brother, for
physical, intellectual, and moral education or development; that all civil and political
159
privileges and emoluments should be as accessible to her as to man; that the same
remuneration should be granted to her as to her brother for the same kind and
amount of labor; and that, in the marriage relation, she should be fully secured in
her natural rights to property, to the legal custody of her children, and to the entire
control of her own person, that thereby fewer and better children may be born, and
humanity be improved and elevated.
This same editor and follower of the New Testament, after quoting the above
resolution, says:-
" A. J. Davis claims to have sprung from monkeys and baboons; and certainly his
doctrine is worthy of such an ancestry. Yet this wretch in human form claims to be a
reformer, and it is a mournful commentary on the state of public morals that he has
numerous followers. . . . The whole vile breed are fit only for a lunatic asylum. This mis-
erable delusion is styled by its victims ‘
the new religion.' Such a religion is, in the
strongest possible sense, ' earthly, sensual, and devilish.' To every pure mind it is
loathsome and disgusting to the last degree. The man, and still more the woman, that will
publicly teach such doctrines, should be shunned, as we would shun the devil, whose
servants they are. When one is fairly drawn into the vortex of this abominable delusion,
there is no hope for him. It is a leprosy which defies all cure. It is a signing, sealing,
and delivering of the soul to Satan, beyond all redemption. When will the community
have sense enough and moral principle enough to shun these ‘
filthy dreamers?' Their
very touch is polluting, and the poison of asps is under their tongues."'
…………………………………………..
Davis makes no comment on this extract, which is one of a series of memoranda in the
book, from about that time, on the rights of women. Obviously he does not endorse the
headline of the Christian critic. That critic incidentally shows a good knowledge of the
letters in the New Testament, and alludes to James, Jude and to Paul writing to the
Romans!
To readers today the legal protection of women as described in the motion would not
seem exceptional, and Spiritualists were simply ahead of their time. Marital rape, for
example, became illegal in England in 1991, and in the American states one by one in the
same era (North Carolina, 1993).
But who were the group addressed by the Davises? John Buescher comments:
Based on the other evidence in this selection, my first guess about
its provenance would be the "Friends of Human Progress," which, roughly
speaking, was an offshoot of the radical group following Elias Hicks
that broke off from the mainstream Quakers. The Quakers were sometimes
already called "illuminists" from their "inner light" doctrine. The
Hicksites emphasized this to the exclusion of all earthly authority or
constraint. They were militantly utopian. The "activist" faction of
Hicksites formed themselves into a loose confederation of social
160
progressives, calling themselves the "Friends of Human Progress," with
the emphasis here being on "Friends", denoting their Quaker origin.
More is here:
http://ublib.buffalo.edu/libraries/units/archives/exhibits/old/urr/Collins.html
And:
http://ublib.buffalo.edu/libraries/units/archives/exhibits/old/urr/FHP_WATERLOO.HTML
And, of course:
http://www.spirithistory.com/71friends.html
You also might be interested in this piece I just found.
http://www.spirithistory.com/69friends.html
Note that these "trans-Quakers" or whatever, eventually had two meetings
each year, in close proximity. The ones that were held at North Collins were really
focused on Spiritualism, and so attracted Spiritualists and social radicals who did not
have any previous connection to Quakerism, as is clear from the attendees list linked
above, which includes, for example, the names of many Universalists, and many more
that I know simply as active Spiritualists.
This list puts A. J. and Mary Davis at the 1857 meeting at North Collins. Note that,
according to the listing of meetings linked above, the 1857 meeting (Sept 25-27) was held
at the 3rd Friends Meeting House in North Collins.
The "Friends of Human Progress" was clearly not limited to ex-Hicksite
Quakers. John Spear's group, who were meeting in Boston in the basement
of the Fountain House, holding public meetings on "Practical
Spiritualism" (read here, social radicalism, especially Free Love and
the eugenic uplift of the human race) during the period of 1855-1857,
were explicitly connected to the "Friends of Human Progress" in their
notices in the Spiritualist newspapers, regarding themselves as a kind
of Boston branch, I think.
The Fountain House Spiritualist-commune/boarding house, etc., was the
brainchild of John Orvis, who was one of John's closest associates, who was also an ex-
Hicksite (and slavery abolitionist, and Brook Farm alumnus, and, later, labor radical).
The Fountain House was also called a "Unitary Home" along the lines of the Free Love
"Unitary Home" established in New York City around the same time by Spear associate,
social radical and spiritualist Stephen Pearl Andrews. The New York City connection
apparently brings the "Friends of Human Progress" into association with social radicals
in the city, such as Walt Whitman, who were experimenting with a bohemian lifestyle.
Both of the "Unitary Homes" were active Free Love conclaves from about 1855-58.
161
In the Spiritualist papers, I have seen calls for the "Friends of Human
Progress" to attend various spiritualist conventions, and, in fact,
Orvis and Spear held a meeting of the "Friends of Human Progress" even
as late as 1872 in the Spiritualist community of Ancora, New Jersey.
It is unclear to me, however, what real connection they had with the North Collins
meetings of the "Friends." Neither Spear nor Orvis are in the list of attendees that
Densmore has compiled. (I don't think that the "Dr. Orvis" from Rochester at the 1871
meeting is John Orvis).
In light of the section in Davis' "Memoranda," I note that there was a call for the
"Friends of Human Progress" to attend the Rutland, Vermont convention in 1858 that
turned into such a circus around the explicit advocacy of Free Love by medium Julia
Branch
from the New York "Unitary Home." I have records that Spear's
associates--especially those in Ohio--were scandalizing reformers'
conventions as early as 1855 or 56 with the explicit advocacy of the
position that each woman had the sole right to determine when, with
whom, and how often to "assume the maternal role." In practice, this
meant what is now called "reproductive rights." In fact, it meant the
right to contraception--and later, of course, it turned into the right
to abort as well. It also was (correctly) read, by those who were
scandalized by it, as an assertion that the traditional marriage bond
was void and that people had the right to have sexual intercourse with
whomever and whenever and with however many people they felt they had an "affinity."
This was a more explicitly developed statement of the position the Davises were quoted
as offering at the North Collins meeting--"...that, in the marriage relation, she should be
fully secured ... to the entire control of her person, that thereby fewer and better children
may be
born, and humanity be improved and elevated." Note that the eugenic
goal is explicit in the Davises' formulation of the principle.
Finally, since the Memorandum has a "dateline" of Battle Creek, Michigan, I note that
there was apparently a settlement of
the "Friends of Human Progress" in or very near Battle Creek. It was
named "Harmonia":
http://archiver.rootsweb.com/th/read/QUAKER-ROOTS/1998-08/0904168974
This was the settlement that Quaker Henry Willis brought black
abolitionist Sojourner Truth to in 1856 in order to address the "Friends of Human
Progress." She settled in Battle Creek for a while and became a Spiritualist.
While doing the research for "The Other Side of Salvation," I discovered, and reported in
the book, that ex-Universalist minister-turned-Spiritualist Justin P. Averill converted his
162
Universalist society of Battle Creek to Spiritualism. That congregation merged with the
local Quaker Meeting to form a Spiritualist organization. Averill was James Martin
Peebles' benefactor when Peebles first separated from the Universalists. Peebles and his
wife moved to Battle Creek then, having read about Averill. Averill, for a while anyway,
gave Peebles a position with his group there, until Peebles built up his new career as
Spiritualist, lecturer, physician, writer, etc. I don't know if this means that either Averill
or Peebles had a connection with the "Friends" as constituted at the North Collins
meetings. Neither of them show up on Densmore's list of participants.
All readers will be much indebted to Dr Buescher for his information. We learn from this
some of the particular connections between Spiritualists, Quakers, Universalists and
reformers in general, and see A.J. Davis in a wider context. (two American historians of
Quakers also commented on the passage.)
But one mystery remains- do any copies survive of the newspaper “ The Illuminati”?
We may hope that the general study of the work of A.J. Davis will be stimulated by the new web site
www.andrewjacksondavis.com conducted by Dr John DeSalvo.
……………………………………………………………………………..
How to obtain this Newsletter
The Psypioneer newsletter is at present available on the web site www.woodlandway.org
and we are greatly indebted to our Australian friends. You can obtain it free and direct by
sending an e-mail entitled “ Subscribe” to psypioneersub@aol.com or “ Unsubscribe” to
discontinue. Assistant editor- Paul J. Gaunt.
……………………………………….
NOTES BY THE WAY – JUNE 2005
Survival Research Network
Within hours of the last issue reaching subscribers, with its review of the publishing
scene as we completed our first year, the ground moved again with the launch of the
Survival Research Network, of which our colleague Andreas Sommer is secretary.
(www.survival-research.net)
This web site will showcase scientific survival research at an academic level, a topic
increasingly pushed to the edge in scientific parapsychology, but in which it is hoped to
interest younger parapsychologists in particular.
163
How does the new site relate to the already existing www.survivalafterdeath.org of ISS?
It looks like it will be aimed at a more academic audience, without the reach out to
Spiritualism which characterises ISS (and ourselves). In practice there is bound to be
some overlap of content. There is such a shortage of reputable web sites on the
paranormal that the SRN will be very welcome. Andreas Sommer formerly edited “
Human Nature”, a paper based journal. He is moving shortly from Freiburg to
Northampton, is well connected with the Parapsychological Association, and has the
necessary data processing skills. The future looks bright for the new Network, and the
site already has some historical material.
Successors to Noah’s Ark
We reported last year on the closure of the Noah Ark Society, whose journal carried
important articles on pioneers of physical mediumship. (the name came from Noah
Zerdin, a pioneer of home circles.) Two groups have emerged to fill the gap. The more
populist is the Zerdin Fellowship, which can be reached at www.zerdinfellowship.com –
this has already printed the first issue of “ Zerdin Buzz Sheet” of April 2005 with
reports of seances. The second group is the International Scientific Association for
Research into Transcendental Objective Phenomena directed by Robin Foy
(saro@supanet.com) which also plans a magazine, a web site and booklets. Meanwhile,
proposals to transfer the content of the old NAS web site to Woodland Way have not yet
come to fruition. (www.woodlandway.org.)
The noble one hundred
There are now one hundred subscribers to this newsletter, and a few dozen others who
also read it regularly on the web site. Compared with print publications, or the major on-
line resources, this is of course very small. Psychic News, for example, had a circulation
of 27600 in 1946, (This was still noted in a Catholic Truth Society pamphlet “
Spiritualism” 1959 reprint). Most leaders in the psychic field see no need to read our
findings.
However, it is often thus with historical publications. The question is – are we
influencing those involved in writing and teaching psychic history, as well as the
interested enquirer anywhere in the world, who wants to get a clearer picture of some of
the events, organisations and personalities that have arisen in the psychic field in past
years? This is a long haul. “ Theosophical History” has been engaged in something
similar for twenty years.
One thing that becomes apparent to the serious student is that although a wealth of
information is available on the Net, there are large areas of psychic history that remain
electronically quite obscure – many individuals and groups that feature in this or that
incident, but whose antecedents or fate are not apparent. A diminishing number of
libraries have the books or journals that explain that, and one of our functions is to
accurately mediate that material to the wider world.
164
Reprinting guidelines
When we reprint old material, we try to do so accurately. Anyone who works with
scanned material, knows that even the best scanners can play havoc. (A naughty one
changed a letter from an SPR president to a paper so that it made repeated allusions to “
Psychic Worm,” monthly.) The printers of old pamphlets sometimes used eccentric
punctuation (and small type), which we retain. We don’t deliberately miss out sentences,
clauses or words. We do sometimes break up the long paragraphs that classical writers
favoured, and add a title where one is missing from an extract.
Free speech and historical material
Could it ever again become legally difficult to republish historical psychic material?
Theosophical publishers have long faced the problem; when some of their old writers
(like Leadbeater or Jinarajadasa) express derogatory racial views; they delete them from
reprints. Now under the Racial and Religious Tolerance Act 2001 in the Australian State
of Victoria, it has became a civil offence to publish certain material that might cause
offence. The subsequent very disturbing case of Daniel Scot and Daniel Nalliah, which
involves argument as to what a religion has or has not done in history (among other
issues) illustrates the complications. In the UK, it is proposed to introduce a criminal
offence of inciting religious hatred punishable with seven years imprisonment, though the
proposal is opposed by an alliance of secularists and evangelical Christians.
Do you think this has no implications for you? Well, here a few words from a famous
name
“ Its triumvirate were Augustine, Jerome and Ambrose who started the Christian Church
off on its career of World domination. They were paralleled in our time by the Nazi
triumvirate Hitler, Goebbels and Himmler”, and I shall tell you why..”
Thus Arthur Findlay, who passed away forty years ago. There could scarcely be a more
offensive parallel, to compare leading saints of a religion with three Nazi leaders
associated with millions of deaths. And it is not all in the past. The quotation is actually
from ” The influence of religion on history”, an SNU pamphlet reprint of 1997. You can
buy it today from the Psychic News on line bookshop. People doubtless do.
The boot is also on the other foot with criticisms of Spiritualism, like the Christian editor
quoted in this issue who attacked A.J. Davis. After all, to say Spiritualists are under the
influence of demons (a commonplace of evangelical critique) is a grave charge. People
thought to be under the influence of demons are regularly killed in various parts of the
world today. And what about the healer who attacked a leading Jewish group as serpents,
vipers, hypocrites, fools, blind, whited sepulchres etc; surely a case that might provoke
legal proceedings.
Free discussion is vital to historical enquiry, and to the understanding of contemporary
issues, even if it is sometimes offensive.
165
Writing for LIGHT led to loss of job
An astonishing case of censorship is revealed in Roy Stemman’s new book “ Spirit
Communication.” Roy was prevailed upon to allow the quarterly LIGHT to publish a
lecture he gave to CPS about the value of mediumship in crime detection.
“ Surprisingly, my views did not meet with the approval of Psychic News editor Maurice
Barbanell, with whom I had worked for close on eight years as assistant editor. He
insisted that the newspaper’s unwritten editorial policy was that mediumship was meant
to be used only to provide evidence for life after death, not to solve crimes. I had no
problem with that being the newspaper’s policy, as long as I was free to express a
different view, always making it clear that I was speaking personally and not acting as
the newspaper’s spokesperson. However, he insisted that as I was employed by the
newspaper, I was not at liberty to express in public any view that differed from its official
policy. Even after all these years, it still strikes me as strange that he did not see the
irony of wanting to restrict my freedom, when Spiritualism had only won its religious
freedom less than two decades earlier.’
Roy decided to leave PN, but eventually returned as chairman of the Board, and the paper
enjoyed a “ Prague Spring” under Tim Haigh as editor. Alas, it became financially
necessary for ownership to be transferred, and the next editor, Julie Stretton soon left
because of breach of editorial freedom (as reported in “ Psychic World”).
Censorship was most apparent in 2000 in the most disturbing Spiritualist case known to
me. The Indian guru Sai Baba had been much promoted by PN, including his claims to
deity. But when some of SB’s followers (the actual successors to PN columnist Peggy
Mason) published a dossier about serious offences against boys, no warning was given to
PN readers about giving money, or taking their sons, to the ashram. Indeed praise
continued. The most that could be said in PN was that Sai Baba had got a bad press,
allegedly. (‘Psychic World’ did carry a warning, as did the Psypioneer web site. – search
Google under’ Sai Baba bad press, allegedly’ for the PN view!) It should be emphasised
that the PN editorship has since changed.
Spelling pitfalls
A recent book speaks of the SPR investigator Everard Feilding, but this is mistyped ‘
Fielding.’ It prompts the question- what are the most common spelling mistakes in the
names of pioneers. Among forenames, Frederick (instead of Frederic) Myers is common,
as is Alfred Russell (instead of Russel) Wallace. Apparitions were studied by G.N. M.
Tyrrell (not Tyrell). Distinguish carefully between Hereward Carrington (chiefly in the
States) and W. Whately Carington (formerly Smith) in the UK.
Among organisations, many godly critics of CFPSS (previously CFPS) do not know the
correct name behind the initials, while some members of the SPR refer to the society
vaguely. Thus A.C. Doyle recalls joining ‘ the Psychical Research Society’ in ‘ The New
166
Revelation’, which he calls the ‘Psychical Society’ on the next page. Is this a sign of
vagueness in handling evidence? – some researchers have certainly thought so.
Words may also indicate outlook. Spiritualists speak of ‘ psychic science’ which suggests
an advance in organised knowledge about psi which others deny. Even the subtle
difference between ‘ psychic research’ and ‘ psychical research’ may be meaningful- the
former title, when adopted by a journal like that of the ASPR, suggested undue
enthusiasm for supposed phenomena! The many alternative names for psychical research
also carry different connotations.
Mrs Britten is falsely married in new biography
An example of the problem that a spelling can cause appears in a new biography of
Margaret Fox by Nancy Rubin Stuart. “ The Reluctant Spiritualist (Harcourt, 2005).
(SNU historian Paul Gaunt, whose examination of the evolution of the peddler names,
appeared in Psypioneer Newsletter January 2005, will report further on this book soon.)
Emma Hardinge was once well–known in American Spiritualism, as was Samuel Brittan.
However, Emma married William Britten. At some point, the memory of her faded, and
we find in the bibliography of Isaac K. Funk’s book “ The Widow’s Mite “ (New York &
London, 1904), reference to Prof. S.B. Brittan, and to Emma Harding (sic) Brittan.
The next stage was to marry this pair. “ Emma Hardinge, wife of the spiritualist publisher
Reverend Samuel B. Brittan “ declares Stuart, p.xii.. She repeats this later “ Brittan
would later wed medium-historian Emma Hardinge. Individually and together they would
become leading spokesmen for the spiritualist movement.”
This marriage was not a new error. Paul Gaunt notes that it appears in the book by the
Goldfarbs “Spiritualism and Nineteenth Century Letters” (1978), which appears in
Stuart’s bibliography. Students should consult “ The names of Emma Hardinge Britten “
Psypioneer News, November 2004, p.56.
A priceless newsletter
For the library with limited funds, you can’t beat subscribing to free newsletters like this
one. In recent years, the way has been led by www.survivalafterdeath.org. whose
Thursday e mailing is full of psychic news. Among sites focusing on a single person,
www.harryprice.co.uk has a valuable newsletter which conveys the very wide range of
Price’s activities. For some years he was perhaps the most active psychical researcher in
Britain.
A reassessment of Harry Price (1881- 1948) was signaled by a paper in the Journal of the
Society for Psychical Research July 2000 by John Randall, who had been researching
Price for the New Dictionary of National Biography. (All the SPR Journal, Proceedings
and house journal( Paranormal Review ) is now on line for SPR members at
www.spr.ac.uk.)
167
Price was an energetic investigator of many phenomena from 1920 onwards whose
books, library, laboratory and quarrels were widely reported. His unsuccessful
relationship with the SPR overshadowed everything.
The reasons for this included doubts about his honesty, especially in two investigations –
the physical mediumship of Rudi Schneider, and the haunting of Borley Rectory.
Randall defends the conduct of Price and suggests that Price was a victim of SPR
snobbery.
“ In those days the Council of the Society was dominated by a small group of people
belonging to the British upper class and closely related to one another by marriage.
Several writers have commented on the selectivity displayed by this group towards
evidence provided by people of other social classes.” (p.161)
Any rehabilitation of Price would pose problems for Spiritualists because of his role in an
attack on William Hope the spirit photographer, and some sweeping critical comments he
made about the Movement. Price’s role in relation to Helen Duncan was also dubious.
Nevertheless, many of his cases deserve re-examination.
It was Price’s local rector in Sussex who called him “ a man of complete integrity”
(p.168).
Speaking volumes
Some readers may wonder when the first volume of this Newsletter will end. The last
issue of Volume One should be that of December 2005
………………………
HIS NAME IS JOHN
BECAUSE of Christian pressure, there have always been broadcasting restrictions on
Spiritualism by the BBC. So who first spoke of healers on the radio?
Possibly a vicar, John D Pearce-Higgins in a sermon "Christ Heals Today" on Sunday
June 25th, 1950 broadcast from St Gabriel's Church, Hanley Swan, Worcestershire, later
issued as a booklet by Arthur James of Worcester, price 7d post free. (Arthur James were
already publishers of various healing authors like Agnes Sanford and Starr Daly.)
The booklet explained “ The B.B.C., in a series of services dealing with the life of Christ
entrusted the theme of “ Christ the Healer “ to the Rev. John D. Pearce-Higgins, M.A.,
168
Hon. C.F., Vicar of Hanley Castle and Chaplain and Lecturer at the City of Worcester
Training College. “
Healing he insisted was not confined to the Bible: "Only the bigoted and blind in
scientific prejudice could deny the work of people like Agnes Sanford (author of `The
Healing Light') or Pastor Brown in America (recorded by Starr Daily
(sic- PP) in `Recovery' and `Release') or of Harry Edwards or the late W T Parrish and
his wife, and there are many others."
This mention of Edwards and Parrish in a sermon about Christ was courageous. For
JDPH, who had a brilliant academic record and a war record as army chaplain, his
outspokenness and his interest in the paranormal may well have held his career back. To
be eventually vice-provost of Southwark Cathedral when Mervyn Stockwood was Bishop
was not a glittering prize, though it may have given him more time for outside interests.
He served as chairman of the Modern Churchmen's Union from 1958-68 and as vice-
chairman of the Churches' Fellowship for Psychical and Spiritual Studies for over a
decade from 1961. But by the time of his passing on 24 January 1985 in his eightieth
year, his influence had sharply declined, and not only because of frail health.
John was a lovable man but he may have liked to shock people. What is more use to the
Church, he might ask, twenty bishops or twenty mediums? It was not a question that went
down well with dog-collared audiences.
As an active psychical researcher, he was well-placed to provide intellectual weight to
the emerging CFPSS, and to some extent he did. He co-edited a useful book of essays
`Life, Death and Psychical Research'. But he was not able to write books himself.
As a Modern Churchman (i.e. an old fashioned Liberal in theology) he was by definition
suspect to the more conservative elements in the Church, both Catholic and Evangelical -
quite apart from his support of mediums.
Here too he ran into increasing difficulties in later years. Like Bishop Stockwood, he
championed Ena Twigg who was one of the most gifted sensitives of her generation; she
was also an SNU minister. By 1970 she was world famous and at times treated like
royalty. But her contacts with his clerical colleagues did not always go well.
Later in his work with haunted houses, he worked with a male medium who also
appeared on TV. Unfortunately the medium's extracurricular activities were featured in a
Sunday paper.
Being by now disillusioned with mediums, he was finally assisted by a married couple,
Roman Catholic healers. They got into financial difficulty and appeared in court, with
JDPH as a witness.
169
In the light of this it is important to emphasise the big issues on which John was right.
During the 1960s a tide of unbelief swept the main Churches and God was reported to be
dead, or possibly to be a psychedelic mushroom. John made it clear that people survived
death and met their loved ones again, against theologians like David Jenkins, whose very
real faith in God did not extend to the traditional understanding of the Resurrection.
In the 1970s, with the coming of the charismatic movement, fear of demons was stirred
up, to be "remedied" by exorcism. John who had considerable experience of troubled
people and places, testified that earthbound people lay behind much of the trouble and
that they needed a compassionate approach to free them. They were not demons or even
evil in many cases.
This has since become more widely accepted in the Church, even by Evangelicals under
the name `Requiem Healing' (the title of a 1991 book by Michael Mitton and Russ
Parker). It was good to see that Ian Wilson's `In Search of Ghosts', quoted JDPH and took
a similar line.
However, John was also inclined to doubt the existence of demons at all - human evil
being capable of such depths - and here he went beyond Michael Perry, also a liberal,
who later reaffirmed his belief in Satan in the second edition of the semi-official
handbook `Deliverance'.
John also played a part in the launch of "The Christian Parapsychologist" the most
successful publishing initiative of CFPSS. The CFPSS psychical phenomena committee
first approved the project in 1975. John provided the main article in the first issue "An
Alternative to Exorcism". But a few weeks later he rang me up "We have run into
trouble" he reported. The General Secretary was not happy about the new publication
under the CFPSS name. For some weeks CP hung in the balance until the chairman
Martin Israel gave it his blessing.
But I recall also my first meeting with John when he came to address a student meeting I
had organised, and this middle aged clergyman dismounted from the local train after a
long journey, probably one of hundreds he made to meetings large and small over the
decades. "Are you going to seek ordination?" he asked me within five minutes! (I wasn't.)
Now he is among the Fellowship pioneers in what he liked to call the celestial civil
service, and his deeds are written mainly in the bound volumes of old psychic
newspapers. As ever he will be on the side of the angels, but perhaps with a mischievous
twinkle.
("His name is John" is what the father of John the Baptist wrote "to everyone's astonishment" on a
writing tablet at the naming ceremony of the baby. The father had been temporarily struck dumb af-
ter disbelieving the angel Gabriel who told him that he and Elizabeth were to have a child, despite
being both well on in years! Gabriel also conveyed the name. See Luke 1.63. This text was used in the
sermon at John’s funeral. )
170
………………………………………………………………………………………………
THE PASSING OF A MAN OF COURAGE
Under this headline, the CFPS Quarterly Review, in its issue 21 of September 1959
reported
Early on Sunday morning, June 28th
, the Rev. Maurice Elliott passed to the Higher Life,
after several months of patiently borne illness. …’
In the same issue appeared a message left by their hon. Secretary setting out his beliefs.
WHERE I STAND
BY THE REV. G. MAURICE ELLIOTT
I AM leaving behind the following statement so that, after my passing, there may be no
misunderstanding as to what my attitude was to the very end regarding Psychical Science
and Spiritualism.
I remain convinced that Science, through the medium of psychical science, has proved (if
there be such a thing as " proof ") that we do live on after the death of our physical bodies
and that, under certain conditions, communication with those on the Other Side is
possible. I believe that this knowledge may be of the greatest possible help and comfort
to the bereaved and, indeed, to " all who profess and call themselves Christians."
But please let no one quote what I have just said without giving the substance, at least, of
the next paragraph.
I have stressed the words " may be " and have not written "must be". Why is that? It is
because of the changed attitude of modern organized Spiritualism towards the
fundamental truths of the Christian Faith. I write " changed " because it is fast becoming
an anti-Christian Movement whereas when I first became interested in it was, as it should
be, non-religious; it was a science. Mr. Gow, the then Editor of Light was never weary of
telling his readers that " Spiritualism deals with facts in nature, not in religion ".
Spiritualism has substituted a slavish belief in guidance by guides for devotion to Christ
and belief in His guidance, and it has caricatured, if not denied, the fundamental truths of
the Christian Faith. The Christian church is largely to blame for this. For centuries she
has neglected to teach and preach the full Christian Faith which includes much that
psychical science is now revealing to us.
Those who know me best will remember how hard a battle I fought to try and persuade
Church authorities - especially Archbishop Temple - to investigate the phenomena on
which Spiritualism is founded, and how they did so and produced a " Majority Report "
171
which Archbishop Lang would not allow to be published. And those who know me best
will remember too that I wrote such books as Spiritualism in the Old Testament and The
Psychic Life of Jesus, and various pamphlets including " Bible Blunders "-all of which I
would alter somewhat were I writing them again, but none of which I regret writing.
I have not changed my attitude towards the Spiritualism of Sir Oliver Lodge, Sir William
Crooks (sic – PP), Sir William Barrett at whose feet I sat. To that kind of Spiritualism I
owe more than tongue can tell or thought measure.
………………….
Among the tributes to Elliott carried by the QR was one from Mrs Forsyth Andrew
(daughter of Principal Peter Taylor Forsyth, late of Hackney College). She said “ I am
indeed very sorry to feel that I cannot expect to hear from Mr. Maurice Elliott any more
here but I know he will rejoice at meeting my father again. It is to Mr. Elliott entirely that
I owe the initiative which has caused me to republish many of my father’s books. I have
known him since his student days under my father.”
These books and this teacher, which combine a Christocentric devotion and scholarship,
played a crucial part in Elliott’s life.
………………
At the funeral service on 2 July, John Peace Higgins said
“ We, the Churches’ Fellowship, had a great privilege of having within our gates a pure
and fine spirit, one who was unusual in that he had no rancour, no bitterness, for the
many slings and arrows inflicted upon him. His kindness, wisdom, and courage – that
moral and spiritual courage – mark him out. And I am sure that he will be remembered
in the Church which treated him rather badly but which he continued to serve. His name
will be remembered long after those who figure in the Church papers will have passed
into oblivion. “
……………………………………………………………
MADAME BLAVATSKY GAVE POST-MORTEM MESSAGE TO
AUSTRALIAN THEOSOPHISTS
H.P.Blavatsky (1831-1891) the co-founder of the Theosophical Society, sent a special
message to the Sydney Lodge of the (Adyar) Theosophical Society on the anniversary of
her death (White Lotus Day) 1917. It came via the Theosophical clairvoyant C.W.
Leadbeater, and he received it while crossing the harbour by ferry.
172
Leadbeater explained that she now lived in a masculine body which she had taken
directly after leaving the previous one - an Indian boy age 14 originally, who had
apparently drowned but revived mysteriously, and then changed completely in character.
While not taking any direct part in the T.S., she still gave advice - and some teachings by
dictation.
In her message, she said in part " "You who live here in the metropolis of the Southern
Hemisphere, you have a grand opportunity before you. See that you take it, that your part
of this new Sub-race may not disappoint Him when He comes to rouse it and lead it." (a
reference to the Coming World Teacher then thought to be imminent.)
Leadbeater told the meeting " So far as I know, you are the only people in the world who
are getting a message from her: you may naturally feel yourselves honoured."
The incident is included in Mary K.Neff " How Theosophy came to Australia and New
Zealand " (Australian Section of T.S., Sydney, 1943). It is one of a number of accounts of
Madame Blavatsky's whereabouts that arose among Spiritualists or Theosophists after her
death.
(Reprinted from the now defunct www.psypioneer.com.)
MADAME BLAVATSKY, BUDDHISM AND TIBET
– a spoken paper at the Theosophical History conference London, Sunday 15 June
2003, with revisions
Preface ( 2005)
Madame Blavatsky was a psychic pioneer of some distinction who interacted with many
other such pioneers. Probably most readers discount her claim to have real Tibetan
teachers, men not spirit guides. Many would question her first hand acquaintance with
Tibetan culture- she seems generally unaware of the many Tibetan works that have since
reached the West but in her time had not.
And yet, to some scholars like Suzuki and Conze, there did seem to be an authentic
Mahayana inspiration. In recent years, there has been a new wave of argument. Now read
on…
…………………………………………………………………………………………
Let’s begin with two contrasting quotations.
“ The role of the redoubtable Madame Helena Petrovna Blavatsky in popularizing
“eastern “ doctrines remains hotly contested. However it is now clear, that despite the
173
legend which she and her hagiographers propagated, Blavatsky never stepped on Tibetan
soil. Her claims that her later writings derived from Himalayan Mahatmas forming a
kind of Atlantean brotherhood residing in secrecy in a remote region of Tibet and with
access to long-hidden antedeluvian sources of wisdom, need not be treated seriously.”
Harry Oldmeadow “ The Western Quest for ‘Secret Tibet’” Esoterica III (2001) 48-107
( Oldmeadow is identified with the Traditionalist school, whose leader Guenon
“exposed” Theosophy.)
“ The theosophical movement has in general not knowledge enough of theosophy to see
what the Reigles have done.” – Henk Spierenburg, May 2003.
-
Every year on 8 May, Theosophists throughout the world pay tribute to Madame
Blavatsky, co-founder of the Theosophical Society. Since the publication of Dr Vernon
Harrison’s paper “ J’Accuse” by the Journal of the Society for Psychical Research in
April 1986, the pain of the over-hasty negative 1885 verdict of that body on HPB has
been much reduced.
Not directly addressed by Dr Harrison though was the problem of Madame Blavatsky’s
Tibetan connection. Arthur Lillie, Richard Hodgson and their successors had thought to
explain this by reference to published sources available in HPB’s time, recycled and at
times garbled by her in a spurious claim to initiated knowledge of the Tibetan tradition.
Defenders of HPB, including the “Old Lady “ herself, have in contrast claimed that she
had lived in Tibet, as well as enjoying personal contacts with Tibetan Buddhist figures.
From the time of Sinnett onwards, biographers have wrestled with the fragmentary and
contradictory data.
At one theosophical history conference in London scholars heard both the” for” (Jean
Overton Fuller) and “against” (Robert Gilbert) case for HPB’s travels in Tibet. But
another line of research focuses, not on HPB’s movements, but on her writings. To what
extent does she show special knowledge of Tibet?
In 1999, an American Theosophist Richard Taylor began a research project into
Blavatsky and Buddhism. Taylor was part of a postgraduate group in Buddhist Studies at
The University of California, Berkeley. He assembled a list of Buddhist publications
available in her lifetime, which is rather longer than might be expected. It is possible to
see where HPB quotes from these, sometimes through her footnotes, though in other
cases, (as G.R.S. Mead regretfully observed a century ago) she does not cite even when
borrowing chunks of text.
Thus she employs Emil Schlagintweit “ Buddhism in Tibet” ( London, 1863). In our
time, David Reigle, Daniel Caldwell and Richard Taylor appear to have been the persons
who realised this. Her definitions of parinishpanna, parikalpita, paramarthasayta and
174
samvritisatya ( The Secret Doctrine I pages 56-8 are notable examples.) Sometimes she
appears to misunderstand what she is quoting.
At the same time, Taylor concluded that we also find in early theosophical writing,
especially in the Mahatma letters, a knowledge of Tibetan terms which was not (so far as
we know) generally available to western scholars of HPB’s time. The Mahatma Letters
also indicate that some at least of HPB’s teachers saw themselves in Buddhist terms.
Rich Taylor’s findings, though unfinished, were placed on the Blavatsky. Net site ,. but
not published in paper form. They form an excellent recent introduction to the subject.
Yet the revelation through Blavatsky was not Tibetan Buddhism. After all, Tibetan
Buddhists today do not subscribe to Theosophy. What then was it? A set of answers has
been provided by another American scholar, David Reigle (working with his wife Nancy
Reigle, whose name should generally be assumed in references below to David.).
Reigle ( the name rhymes with legal eagle !) found in 1981 that the term “ Books of Kiu-
te” used by HPB appeared in a book by C.R. Markham “ 2nd
edition 1879, called “
Narratives of the Mission of George Bogle to Tibet”. The reference was in an appendix
by Horace Della Penna called in turn “ Brief Account of the Kingdom of Tibet”. The
Books of Kiu-Te are in the Tibetan Buddhist canon, they are the Tibetan Buddhist
Tantras. Later it transpired that Henk Spierenburg had published the same identification
of the Books of Kie-Te through the Dutch Theosophical Society in 1975, but this had not
become known in the English-speaking world. Spierenburg had begun reading the books
mentioned by HPB, with a view to collecting together her references to such traditions as
Buddhism, the Vedas and the New Testament (This is now a major series, invaluable to
students.). He had therefore read Markham and Della Penna, and realised that this book
was the source of HPB’s term “ Kiu-Te” . It would appear that no one had done this
before Spierenburg, although a follow-up of HPB’s references would have led to it
We owe to Wizards Bookshelf and Richard Robb ( best known for their Secret Doctrine
Reference Series) the publication in 1983 of Reigle’s booklet “ The Books of Kiu-te”
which has since been reprinted. Then in 1999 Robb issued “ Blavatsky’s Secret Books”, a
hardback collection of the Reigles’ papers and research reports. But this has attracted
disappointingly little attention. Recently David Reigle’s work has started to become more
easily available though www.easterntradition.org
Reigle has suggested that in “ The Stanzas of Dzyan”, on which “ The Secret Doctrine” is
a commentary, HPB has used the first (cosmology) section of the Kalachakra Tantra,
but in its longer original form, rather than the shortened form known today. This Tantra
was associated with the Panchen Lama at Shigatse in Tibet, with which HPB claimed
affiliation. At present, during the minority of the present Panchen Lama , it is in
particular the other leading Tibetan dignitary, the Dalai Lama, who has made the
Kalachakra Tantra known in the West, and has conducted initiations into it.
175
But the actual metaphysics presented by HPB and her teachers is not Gelugpa., the school
to which both the Dalai and Panchen Lamas belong. It is not, on certain major points, the
same as the public teaching of Tsong-ka-pa, the great reformer of that school. It has
(suggested Reigle) closer affinities with the Jonangpa school, a smaller and at times
persecuted tradition., not well known in the West, though there are now Dorje Ling
centres in Brooklyn and Atlanta, USA.
Yet the origins of HPB’s teaching are not in Tibet, or at least, not in the Tibetan
language. It will be remembered that most Tibetan scriptures were specially translated
from the Buddhist Sanskrit, though it was in Tibetan that Tsong-ka-pa and other Tibetan
teachers commented on them. The Buddhist Sanskrit originals. about 50% of which may
still exist, take us closer to the original of the Book of Dzyan. That original may in turn
be in a different language, which HPB called Senzar. The search for it chiefly motivates
David and Nancy Reigle
Reigle therefore concludes that HPB’s primary teachers were indeed affiliated with
Tibetan Buddhism, but they were also initiated into a more secret tradition, not limited to
Tibet or to Buddhism.
This endorsement of HPB is significant because of Reigle’s Sanskrit scholarship. It is
not unknown for an orientalist (if a vague term may be permitted) to have been involved
in Theosophy in his or her youth, but the academic community would hold that they
should abandon this in maturity and then write off HPB as a crank or worse.
Reigle, in contrast, has established a reputation as scholar in the Sanskrit Buddhist
materials, yet he has been led to put HPB firmly into a Tibetan Buddhist context, though
it is admitted that there are some problems on matters where she differs from the main
Tibetan Buddhist view. It is the Stanzas of Dyzan whose teaching is of most interest to
him. “ The Voiceof a Silence” a later poetic work by HPB is also very important as the
first exposition in the West of the bodhisattva ideal, which is central in Mahayana
Buddhism..
Reigle can read Tibetan. This is almost unprecedented in the Theosophical world, if one
excepts a handful of Tibetans who join the TS for such reasons as access to its libraries.(
Sanskrit scholars, in contrast, have not been rare , at least among Indian Theosophists. ).
There has been, coincident with the spread of Tibetan Buddhism in the West, a greater
interest in its relationship with Theosophy. The quarterly magazine “ Fohat”, founded in
Edmonton, Canada in 1997 was not only for a time the chief publisher of Reigle papers,
but has carried other contributions on related subjects - by its editor Robert Bruce
MacDonald, by the late Abhinyano ( a Western Buddhist ) and by Gerald Schueler, an
American writer on the magical tradition.
Schueler considers that Theosophy and Mahayana Buddhism are identical in their core,
though differing in emphasis, and (at face value only) conflicting at certain points. He
176
believes that HPB was iniated into Mahayana and into Dzogchen, a form of once secret
practice found chiefly in the Nyingma school.
Another student, Grigor V. Ananikian has noted “ The Central Asian Dzogchen is
common to and found within Bon, Nyingmapa lineage, as well as in some northern
Indian elements of the Sikhs, Nathas….” He would prefer to look northwards to Central
Asia and west to Persia for HPB’s school.
In this connection I should like to call attention to a paper by Dr Todd Gibson “ Inner
Asian Contributions to the Vajrayana”( Indo-Iranian Journal 40 37-57 1997) .Gibson
challenges the common view that Tibetan Buddhism was essentially transmitted from
India. Important developments in esoteric Buddhism, he argues came from the North,
from inner Asia. Even the Buddhist mandala seems to have developed there.
Madame Blavatsky occasionally included actual Tibetan language passages or fragments
in her work, rendered in our alphabet. Michael Lewis, in association with Ken Small, has
recently examined one such phonetic fragment in the Proem to “ The Secret Doctrine”.
Lewis has special knowledge of spoken Tibetan dialects. Their unpublished paper “ In
the Matrix of the Primordial Deities” indicates a Tibetan original to the first Stanza of
Dzyan.
Similarly, David Reigle has been working for some years on the Tibetan terms in the
“Cosmological Notes” that appeared as an appendix to the” “ Letters to A.P. Sinnett”.
But the whole corpus of Reigle’s work has largely been ignored. Like Dr Harrison at the
time of his famous SPR paper, he is not a member of a Theosophical Society despite
being, I would suggest, the most important defender of HPB in the world today
Reigle has another qualification. He is initiated into the Kalachakra tradition. This gives
him a special perspective on Madame Blavatsky’s claim to have Tibetan links.
Unfortunately, except perhaps for Ian Brown of London , other Kalachakra practitioners
are not interested in the Blavatsky claim.( Brown took part in the 1986 Theosophical
History conference in London). .In 1996, Spirit of the Sun Publications ( Santa Fe, New
Mexico ) published David Reigle’s essay “ Kalacakra (sic) Sadhana and Social
Responsibility” in book form (available through Wisdom Books in the UK.).
There is also a growing community of academic scholars active in researching aspects of
Tibetan Buddhism. They have nothing to say about David Reigle’s Blavatsky work
either, even when they know of it. Sometimes this may be because they consider
Blavatsky not a respectable figure for them to study. No one ever harmed their academic
career by publishing a disparaging reference to HPB in an academic paper, but serious
study has been rare. Another problem for the academic scholars is that they would need
not only knowledge of Tibetan, but also of Sanskrit, to seriously engage with David
Reigle’s research. And then there is the fact that anyone who attempts objective research
of Blavatsky may receive abuse from some so-called followers of Blavatsky.
177
One of the few critical responses to Reigle. or at least his early work, has come from Tim
Maroney, in his “ Book of Dzyan” ( Oakland, California , Chaosium, 2000) who relates
Blavatsky to the horror fantasist H.P.Lovecraft. Maroney is an OTO initiate but despite
this, or perhaps because of it, he is dismissive of Reigle’s attempt to give Blavatsky a
Tibetan context, and even reprints part of Hodgson’s report.
The work of Reigle and others on Tibetan aspects of HPB is naturally relevant to the
problem of putting HPB into an overall context. Because she uses material from a
variety of traditions – and says so- she may be said to have affinities with those schools.
So she may be explained partly as a Sufi, or an Ismaili , or a Kabalist, or a Buddhist, a
Spiritualist, or a spiritual ancestor of Gurdjieff.
If we as (mostly) Europeans with a heritage of European esotericism claim Blavatsky as
mainly European in her inspiration, with some oriental trappings, which may be the
emerging academic view today, can we respond adequately to the challenge “ She
claimed a Tibetan and Sanskrit inspiration, and study of original language materials is
actually substantiating this. “?
I am not saying that knowing Sanskrit confers infallibility on a scholar’s interpretation.
There is an instructive case at the moment involving another expert in Sanksrit Buddhist
scriptures, and that is Dr Christian Lindtner of Denmark. Understanding Greek also, he
read the Christian gospels and detected Mahayana Buddhist originals.. That is relevant to
an old argument, in which HPB participated with gusto - whether Christianity borrowed
from Buddhism. As it happens, another Sanskrit and biblical scholar, retired British legal
professor Duncan Derrett, while admitting more Buddhist influence than do biblical
scholars without Sanskrit knowledge, does not accept Dr Lindtner’s judgment on the
supposed Mahayana Buddhist originals. Similarly, in a sense, one would not mind if
someone refuted David Reigle and the others, but they would need to do it effectively
with some knowledge of the original languages.
Another specialist in Sanskrit , formerly of the British Library, is Jeanine Miller, whose
new book about Blavatsky is eagerly awaited. And this brings me to an aspect of the
oriental connection which is ironic. Reigle and Miller, reading Sanskrit, recognise the
authentic inspiration of Blavatsky , and serious Blavatsky students applaud. But R and M
also detect genuine Sanskrit and Tibetan elements in the writings of Alice Bailey and her
inspirer DK. Some of these same students are then sceptical!
In a further irony, Alice Bailey was of course a theist, and a theme of David Reigle’s
most recent work is that Theosophy, as presented through HPB, was non- theistic, that is
belief and worship of a personal god outside the individual was not taught. Indeed, Reigle
argues that the wisdom religion in ancient India was non-theistic and gradually became
overlaid with theism, with disastrous consequences because theism is associated with
religious persecution. Jainism, Buddhism and early Hinduism therefore were not theistic.
The underlying teaching of the Dalai Lama today is not theistic either.
178
This is congenial to the original teachings of “ The Secret Doctrine” and The Key to
Theosophy” but many Theosophists have been theistic, and in the UK, for example, the
efforts of Geoffrey Farthing, Adam Warcup, Blavatsky Trust and others to recall them to
non-theism have had limited success.
As historians, however, we are chiefly interested in placing Madame Blavatsky and the
Theosophical movement in a historical context. Historians cannot afford to ignore the
resurgence of the Tibetan explanation of HPB. They could disregard Geoffrey Barborka
on the grounds that he did not know Tibetan well, but some of those working now in this
area clearly do.
While Paul Johnson presented some evidence in “ The Masters Revealed” ( 1994)
supporting HPB’s special access to Tibetan Buddhist sources, newer and more detailed
studies by David Reigle and other scholars add considerably more weight to the
argument.. We may not be able to say definitely what Col. Olcott saw late one evening in
1882, or where HPB was in 1851. But in examining the teaching, which after all is the
more important subject, we have vastly more material now available from oriental
scriptures with which to make informed comparisons, and we have a series of learned
articles by David Reigle and others on their implications.
Let me offer a brief theory of HPB. In his classic work “ HP Blavatsky Tibet and
Tulku” ( 1966) Geoffrey Barborka identifed Blavatsky as a tulku, a person in whom
another higher entity was manifesting. That book, incidentally, could be the focus for a
whole day’s seminar. (In “ The Secret Doctrine” Blavatsky herself explains Boehme, the
German mystic , the same way, using the Sanskrit equivalent nirmanakaya. ).
There are personal testimonies to Blavatsky, cited by Barborka, behaving in this
entranced or inspired manner which is familiar to psychical researchers in a lower level
of inspiration. In “ The Mahatma Letters” it is clearly stated that as a result of her
experiences at the hands of her teachers she was psychologically not complete any more.
The positive side of this tulku status is that passages of her writing are quite brilliant in
their knowledge and their expression, even allowing for the editing skills of Wilder,
Mead or the Keightleys around her. The negative side is that I am not sure that she could
always remember where she had been or what she had said. I do not mean that she was
basically a fantasist, laying claim to an occult career she never had; it was her occult
work which had led to some diffusion of her consciousness, such as gaps in memory.
Moreover, ideas could clothe themselves in her mind using whatever words or phrases
were available in her memory. That is why, for example, in “ The Voice of the Silence”
she expressed her basic theme in material gathered from many sources, including a past
article in “ The Theosophist”. (Daniel Caldwell has lately reminded us of this article in a
valuable note.)
Finally, let us observe how HPB’s Tibetan teachers may have given to the Theosophical
Society a limited time. I refer to the well-known statement ( in “ The Key to Theosophy”
179
for example,) that at the end of each century a special spiritual push was made. This
appears to be related to the traditions of the Seven Rishis , and also to the Kalachakra
texts.
At the end of the 17th
century in England, we find the Theosophical Transactions of Jane
Leade ,Dr John Pordage and the Behmenists. At the end of the 18th
century we have the
Theosophical Society which grows into the New Church of Swedenborgians. These
impulses fade and then at the end of the 19th
century comes the Theosophical Society still
present. But what happens at the end of the twentieth.? Is there a new impulse, as HPB
predicted?
Could it be Tibetan Buddhism? Perhaps we take for granted the present Dalai Lama,
appearing at a religious conference here, conducting initiations there, his edited lectures
on the library shelves, the world’s second best known religious leader after the Pope. But
this is quite an extraordinary development. Previous Dalai Lamas were unknown outside
the Buddhist region. While one wishes the present Dalai Lama long life, we may even
soon see another Dalai Lama who is (like the fourth ) a non-Tibetan.
The subject of Madame Blavatsky, Buddhism and Tibet is today an active area of
research, rather neglected it has to be admitted by the Theosophical societies, but
essential in any serious theosophical history. But if the new wave of defenders of the
Tibetan connection of HPB are to win a hearing, they too will have to bring their findings
out of the theosophical community and into mainstream academic publications. Even the
best of Theosophical journals and publishers reach only a small audience.. Some use of
the many western Buddhist publications would help, though some publications will turn
up their nose, forgetting perhaps who were the first western Buddhists!
