{"name":"Hermippus Redivvus Sages Triumph","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1744__anonymous___hermippus_redivvus_sages_triumph.pdf","mytitle":"Hermippus Redivvus Sages Triumph","mylang":"de"}
E *> w . b a r k e r .
T j U i u a f l o c k , A r t . .
HermtppusRedwivus:
O R , T H E
s a g e s t r i u m p h
O V E R
Q ld A ge and the G rave.
X
W H E R E I N , A
M e t h o d
I S
Laid down for P r o l o n g i n g
T H E
-
Life and Vigour of M A N.
I N C L U D I N G ,
A Commentary upon an Antient I n s c r i p t i o n ,
in which this great S E C R E T is revealed;
fupported by numerous Authorities.
The Whole Interfperfed
W ith a great Variety of remarkable, and well attefted
. R e l a t i o n s .
:P fr. 3-jK v t CoK*.US&v>
~ 67~ t y I
’
L O N D O N :
Printed for J. N O U R S E, at the Lamb, without
Temple-Bar. M,DCCx
XLIV.
[Price Two Sh i l l i n g s . ]
Digitized by
rERNET ARCHIVE
Original frci
THE GETTY RESEARCH INstlT
i * .
I
I
*' '•*
<A *’
. —
\/
*
Digitized by
. INTERNET ARCHIVE
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
The P R E F A C E .
in a direff Road from the Beginning to the
End; and as he is in no Danger of wifia-
king his IVay, there is the lefis Occafion for
a/fording him fitperunwary Lights in an
Introduction like this.
B UT,fince we have undertaken to write
a T reface, it way not he amifs to obferve
therein, that very few Books contain fo
great a Variety in fo narrow a Compafs.
'The Author appears to be a Man of great
Reading, and deep Reflection, for mofi of
the Books he cites, are equally fcarce and
curious ; but then he does not, like many
of the German Authors, content himfelf
with barely embroidering his Margins,
which may befometimes done by tranfcrib-
ing thofe of other Writers, but generally
gives you the Taffagcs that make for his
Turpofe, and very often Characters of the
Authors themfelves, and this alone renders
his Work ofgreat Utility, to finch as defirc
to be acquainted with the Merit of Books
feldom to be met with, and which, on that
very Account, are [welled to a high Trice.
A N O T HER remarkable thing in this
Treatifie is, the Choice the Author has
made
(
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
The P R E F A C E .
made of his flotations, which are as En-
tertain'tng, as they are lnjtruttive ;nor is it
eafy to conceive without reading his Book,
how it is poflible for a Man to enliven fo
dry a Subject, as his feems to be in the
Manner he has done. The Extracts he
has given from Bacon the Monk, plainly
{hew, the prodigious Knowlege of that ex­
traordinary ‘
Ter[on, who, when all Europe
was involved in the thiekeft Miji of Igno-
ranee, feems to have poffeffed alone fuch a
Treasure of Science, as would have rendered
him a very confiderable Man, even in the
most enlightened Ages, and may poffibly en­
gage fome able Writer to give ns fuch an
Abridgement of his Works, as the ingenious
and learned Dottor Shaw has done, of thofe
of Chancellor Bacon, and thefamous Boyle,
which if judicioujly performed, and illuflra­
ted as they are, with proper Notes, would
do equal Set vice to the Republic of Let-
t ers, and Honour to our Country.
T PIPI Stories he inferts of Eugenius
Philalethcs, Signor Gualdi, and the celebra­
ted Flamel, are not only extreamly divert­
ing, but may contribute alfo to the procur­
ing
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
, Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
The P R E F A C E .
ing us fome well-written Hiftory of the
Tretaiders to the Thilofopher’s Stone }
which, as it would be a very curious and
entertaining Tiece,foif written from good
Authorities, and handled in a proper Man­
ner, it might be of confulerablc Ufe, fince
the Number of Operators in that Way, has
of late Tears mightily encreafed, efpecially
in this Country, where there are many who
have given themfeIves up to that delufive
Study, though they endeavour to conceal
them]elves, and their Labours, with the
utmofi Secrecy, in order to avoid that Re-
dicule, which generally attends the Tro-
feffors of the Occult Sciences. In Germany,
however, this kind of Learning is fill in
Vogue and Credit, and it is fcarce poffible
for any one to obtain a confiderable Repu­
tation as a Man of Letters, who has not
a touch at leaf of Chemifry.
WI T H Rejpeff to the capital View of
our Author, in recommending that Doc­
trine which he deduces from the Jnfcrip-
tion in the Front of his Book, it is certain­
ly managed with great Skill and Ingenuity
jo that if the Reader Jhottld at lajl rejett
its
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH
T h e P R E F A C E .
its 'Probability, he muft be obliged, not­
withstanding, to confefs, that the Writer
has not employed his Pains to little or no
Purpofe, but has introduced jo many cu­
rious Enquiries, and thrown out Jo many
valuable hints, that his Book mujl be al­
lowed a Performance of great Merit,
whatever becomes of Hermippus and his
Secret. Of this, the Author himfelffcems to
be very well aware, and therefore, while he
fujhes his Arguments with the greatefl
Vigourj and appears evidently to have hts
Defign much at Heart \ he notwithstanding,
takes all alongfitch Precautions, as arenc-
ceffary to defend him from the Imputation of
being a whimfical, conceited, or pedantic
Writer, as aimoft any other Man would
have beenthought, who had undertakenfitch
a 'Task. Upon the whole, there is in this
Differtation, fuch a Mixture of Jerious
Irony, as cannot but afford a very agreeable
Entertainment to thofe who are proper
Judges of ciibjetts of this Kind, and who
are inclined to fee how far the Strength
of human Under(Ianding can fupporr phi-
lofophical
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH
The P R E F A C E.
lofophical Truths againft common Notions■
and vulgar Trejudices.
Having thus taken the fame Liberty with
our Author, which he has done with other
learned Men, the whole is ftubmitted to the
"Judgment of the candid Reader, who
will, doubtlefs, retain {owe Tendernefs for
the Tains that have been taken for his A-
tnufement, and not pafs a harfh Cenfure on
a Tiece which we may boldly fay, has no­
thing in it dogmatical, tedious, or ojfenftve.
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH
Hermiffus
OR, T H E
Art of Preferving Y out h .
T was the laudable Cuftom of the
Antients, to perpetuate the Memory
of all fingular Events, and efpecially
fuch as in any Degree might be ufe-
ful to Pofterity by Infcriptions.
Thefe had a peculiar Stile, in which three Things
were principally regarded *
, Succindtnefs, Elegancy
and Clearnefs. It would have been inconvenient,
and indeed prepofterous, to have drawn fuch
Pieces into a great Length, confidering the Places
in which they were Ere&ed ; that is to fay, Mar­
kets, Temples, or public Roads; or, the Matter
whereon they were infcribed, which was Marble,
or fome other kind of hard or curious Stone.
But, if Brevity was necefiary. Beauty was likewife
convenient. Where there is nothing ftriking,
A the
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
[ a ]
the Memory Toon lofes a Thought. To retain
what we are told, we mud receive at once both
Pleafure and Inftru&ion. This neatnefs of Stile,
was peculiarly cultivated by the Antients. It
came originally from the Eafl, where all Science
was taught in Parables and Proverbs. In Greece,
they refined upon this, and laid down the Rudi­
ments of Knowlege in Aphorifms. Amongft the
Romans, this manner of teaching was much efteem-
ed, and nothing more admired, even in the po-
liteft Ages, than Sentences. If they were after­
wards abufed, and improperly applied, this ought
not to diferedit them, fince without Queftion
they ever did, and always wfiLl, appear with the
utmoft Propriety in that kind of Writing of
which I am lpeaking. Laftly, as to Perfpicuity,
the Antients were exceedingly careful, and the
Difficulties that now arife about the true meaning
of fuch Monuments of their Learning as have
reached our Times, are rather owing to the Mif-
fortune ot lofing filch Accounts of their Cuftoms
and Manners, as might have made them eafy and
familiar to us, than to any want of Clearneis in
the Stile of their Infcriptions.
M e n of different Profeffions have employed
themfelves with different Views, in the Study of
thole large and curious Cohesions, which learned
and induftrious Perlons have made of fuch remains
of
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
[ 3 ]
of antient Wifdom, as having efcaped Oblivion,
are now fafcly repofited in the Cabinets of the
Curious. AmongO: thefe, we are chiefly obliged
to the celebrated '■Thom
as Reinefius, who undertook
to make a Supplement to the laborious Work of
Gruter, and has therein prefervedan infinite Num­
ber of valuable Inlcriptions; and amongft the rtft*
this, which hath given Occafion to my Treatife.
iESCULAPIO e t SANITATI
L. CLODIUS. HERMIPPUS
QUI VJXIT ANNOS CXV. DIES V.
PUELLARUM ANHELITU
QUOD ETIAM POST MORTEM
EJUS
NON PARUM MIRANTUR PHYSICI
JAM POSTERI SIC VITAM DUCITE.
The learned Pelcchamp has given us a different
Account of this Inlcription ; according to him it
Ihould be read thus.
A. Clodius JT'irpanus,
Vixit annos CLV. dies V\
Puerorum halitu refocillatus
Et educatus a.
A 2 T h e
aIn Notis ad. L. vii; c. 48. Plinii Natural. Hift.
Digitized by
ERNET ARCHIVE
[ 4 ]
T he famous Cujas, gives it us in the follow­
ing Manner.
L. Clodius Hirpanus,
Vixit cmnos CXV. dies V.
AUtuspuerorum anhelitu b.
T hese various Readings, though it cannot be
denied that they affeft the Senfe ftrongly, do not
however, much concern the Subject. The firft
tells us, that L. Clodius Hrmippus lived one hun­
dred and fifteen Years, and five Days, by the
Breath of young Women, which is worthy the
Confideration of Phyficians and of Pofterity. Ac­
cording to the Commentator upon Pliny, the
Name of this Long-liver was not Hermppus, but
Uirpanus, and the Date of his Life one hundred
and fifty-five Years and five Days, with this addi­
tional Circumftance; that he did not live by the
Breath of young Women, but ofyoung Men. The
Lawyer again reduces the Life to the fame Stan­
dard, and contends only, that his Name was Hir­
panus, and that he received this extraordinary
Nourifhment from the Breath of Youths.
If therefore we take this Infcription as it fiends
by the Confent of all thefe Writers, it informs us
of a Fa£t equally Curious and Important, viz.
That
b Ad Juftiniani Novel, 5.
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
[ 5]
That a certain Pcrfon, no Matter whether his
Name was Hermippus, or Hirpanus, reached a very
advanced Age, by the Ufe of the Breach of young
Women, or of young Men. Now, whether this
were a real Fu£t which adtually happened, or
whether it be the Invention of fome malicious W it
amongft the Antients, in order to exercife the
Talents of Pofterity, I concern not myfelf: It ap­
pears to me, in the Light of a Phyfical Problem,
which may be exprdjed in very few Words, viz.
Whether the Breath of young Women may
probably contribute to the maintaining long Life,
and keeping off old Age ? This is what I pro-
pole to examine •, this is to be the Subject of my
Difcourfe, in which, if what I deliver be Enter­
taining and Ufeful, the Reader need not trouble
himfelf much about the Truth or Falfehood of the
Infcription.
B u t it will be neceffary, before we come to
the ftritff Examination of this Propofition, to
remove fome previous Difficulties out of the
Way. In thefirft place, therefore let us enquire,
whether the Term of Life be a fixed or moveable
Thing. Some of the mod learned amongft the
Jews, have thought it abfolutely determined by
the Decree of God, and have alleged various
Scriptures for the Proof of this. c The moft
Antient
c Manaf. ben Ifrael de term, vitae.
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
[ 6 ]
Antient Philofophers, both in Chaldea and Egypt,
thought the Life of Man depended upon the Stars,
and by pretending to predidt its duration, plainly
fhewed, that they thought it abfolutely under the
Influence of the Heavenly Bodiesd. The Stoicks,
if they meant the Power of the Stars, by what
they diled Fate, were alfo of this Opinion; but
whatever they meant by Fate, mod evident it is,
that diey thought the Life of Man, as well as every
other Thing, depended thereupon6; and that con-
fequcntly it was unalterable by any means, within
the Compafs of human Power. Now, if there be
ary Truth in thefe Opinions, if there be the lead
Foundation for any one of them, the Cafe is clear,
that all further Enquiries are Vain; for to what
end fhould we fearch out the mod probable
Means of extending Life, when we are certain, that
this is a Thing bryond our Capacity? or at lead,
incertain v/hether it be or not?
I n order to open the Way to further Specu­
lations upon this cu ions and important Subject,
I wili begin with the S lution of this Difficulty,
and take upon me to prove, that contrary to the
Notions cf thefe Divines and Philofophers, there
is no fuch Thing, as a f »
tied Term of Life by
the Law of Nature; or which is the fame thing in
other Words, by the exprefs Will of Divine Pro­
vidence.
d Diod : Sicul: Hid: lib: i Diogen. Laert. e Plut. de
placit. Phiiofoph. Diogen: Laert: Senec.
[ 7 ]
vidence. In the firft place, I lay it down as an
abfolute Certainty, that Contingency, is eflential
to that mode of Rule purfued by the Divine Power,
in the management of fublunary Things. Caufes
indeed neceflfarily draw after them their Effie&s;
but then I deny, that there is any Chain of necef-
fary Caufes, and becaufe it would require much
Time and Space to eftablifh this Doctrine gene­
rally, I will keep clofe to my Subject, and content
myfelf with proving it, as to this particular Point.
It is a thing agreed on all Hands, that the Law
of Mofes, propounded chiefly Temporal Bleflings,
and amongfl: thefe, long Life; now this is abfolutely
incompatible with the Doftrine of a fix’d Term,
and therefore if there be any Paflfages in the Scrip­
ture which look this way, we mutt interpret them
in fome other Senfe, for the part muft accord with
the whole, and it is idle to allege a few detach’d
Paflages againft the Scheme of the whole Book.
Again we are told, that God commended Solomon
for praying to him for Wifdom, rather than long
Life, or lor Riches, which plainly thews, that he
might as well have afked for either, as for it; but if
this Inference ehipleafes, take the exprets D-ciflion
of God thereppon; who, in the fame Place, fays,
that if Solomon, walked in the ways of David his
Father, he would lengthen his Days f. Add to
thefe
[ s ]
thefe Arguments, that it was theconftant Practice
ot the belt Men, and fuchas moll intimately knew
the Will ol God, to pray in Terms irrecon-
cileable to iiich an abiolute Decree. Thus Hezekiah
defired that his Life might be ipared 8. Elias h and
Jonah, that their’s might be Ihortnedl.
B u t , to put the matter out of Doubt, one
need only confder, the Choice given to David, by
the Prophet Nathan k, of War, Peflilence, or
Famine, in confequence of which, he chofe Pelti-
lence; now, if there had been a fixed Time of Life,
how could this Choice, have poflibly taken Place ?
All the Perfons who died of the Peililence, mull,
according to the Doftrine I am refuting, have died
if there had been no Peflilence, becaufe the de­
creed Term of their Lives was expired. On the
whole, therefore it is apparent, that a fixt Term
of Life, is inconfillent with the reafon of Things,
which is what we call the Law of Nature, wherein,
if I may be allowed the Expreffion, there is a fet­
tled Contingency. It is contrary to the Principles
of Religion, as deducible from the natural Light
of our Underftandings, and it is dire&ly contrary
to Revelation, lo that I take it for granted, that
the moll pious Man in the World, that will fe-
rioufly confider thefe Arguments, mull remain
fatisfied,
g Ifaiah, xxxviii. 3. h 1. Kings, xix, 4. * Jonah
iv, 3, k 11. Samuel xxiv, 13.
Digitized by Original from
. INTERNET ARCHIVE THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
[ io 3
The ocher Argument I allege, is this-. That
fince the Authority of the Antients is out of the
Cafe, if there be any modern Stoicks, who are dill
of this Opinion, they mud fhew us the Grounds
of it, and this, not from fuch Chimerical Notions
as are laid down by the pretended Sages in judici­
ary Adrology, but from the fettled and unques­
tioned Principles of true Philofophy. When they
do this, or at lead, when they attempt to do it, it
will be Time enough to examine how far this new
Sydem of theirs is rational. In the mean Time,
I will conclude this Point with that fettled and
mod reafonable Maxim of the Civil Law, That a-
lout Things which are not, and about Things which
cannot be made appear, there is the fame Reafon %
that is, there can be no reafoning about them,
they mud be confidered in the fame Light, fince
nothing can be more idle, than to difpute about
the Confequences of a Thing, before the Thing
is made manifcd, or we have any real ground for
a Difpute.
W e have now done fomewhat towards e-
ftablidiing the Foundation of our Do&rine; but
there is dill another vulgar Notion in our Way,
which mud be removed ; or to fpeak more pro­
perly, explained. By this, I mean the prevail­
ing Opinion that the Life of Man is limited
to a certain Term, and becaufe we fee People
grow Old at a certain Age, by which I mean, grow
Infirm
Digitized by ' Original from
INTERNET ARCHIVE ‘ .THE GETTY RESEARCH
[ « » ]
Infirm and Decripcd; for Oldnefs has not fo
much Reference to Time, as to Condition; and
I account him Old, who has loft his Strength, ra­
ther than one who is advanced in Years. But, be-
caufe I fay the Maladies that attend old Age, come
on in moft People at a certain Period, they are
held to be neceflary; and if there were any Truth
in this, we fhould be ftop’d again, here would be
a new Barrier through which we fnould be able
to find no Pafiage, and when we talk’d of re­
tarding old Age, People would expedt we fhould
make them Young again. It is requifite, there­
fore, that this Matter be explained, and fet right,
and that the Reader be fatisfied how far the in-
commodiaes of Old Age are ofNecefilty, and how
far the Product of natural Caufes, which may be
affedted by the Skill and Art of Man.
T h e human Body is a Machine, actuated by
an immortal Spirit, and which is more to my
Purpofe, fabricated by an Almighty Hand. It
cannot be luppofed, that this Dwelling fhould be
fo flightly, or fo injudicioufiy contrived, as that
it fhould wear out in a very fhort Space of Time.
This does not feem very agreeable, either to the
Nature of Man, confidered as a rational Creature,
or with that infinite Skill and Wifdom which is
evident in the Compofition of the human Frame.
When therefore the Divines fay, that Sin intro­
duced Death, they feem to fpeak Philofophically ;
B 2 and
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
[ 12 ]
and if I may be allowed to explain their meaning,
I ffiould be inclined to fay, that Difeafes and
Death are not incident to the human Body by the
Will of God, or which is the fame Thing, by
the Law of Nature, but were Superinduced by
the Follies and Vices of Men, which carry in
them naturally the Seeds of Death; and therefore,
if it be an Evil, w
T
e ought not toaccufe Providence,
but our felves. Yet I will readily acknowlege,
that taking Things as they now Band, and have
flood for many Ages pad,' there is no Hope left
of Immortality in this Body, or even of pro­
longing our Lives to three or five hundred Years;
but dill I affirm, that there are no fettled Periods
in Nature, no inevitable Laws which conjoin
Weaknefs and Infirmity with a certain Number of
Years ; but that it is very poffible, nay, and very
pra&icable too, for a Man to extend the length of
his Life, much beyond the common Date, and
that without feeling the incommodities of Age,
for otherwife, this would be rather avoiding Death,
than preferving Life.
To prove this, I (hall fird make ufe of Rea-
fon, and next of Experience : I ffiall make it evi­
dent by Arguments, that it may be fo, and by
Indances, that it has been fo-, and then if any
Sceptic has a Mind to doubt the Truth of my
P'j&rine, I ffiall leave him in his own Road,
^vhere his Ignorance will infallibly bring upon
hitB
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
[ 1 3 ]
him the juft Punifhment of his Obftinacy, an
haftier Extinction of Life than he need othervvife
have fuffered.
A ll wife Men have agreed, that Nature, by
which I mean the Wifdom of God, manifefted in
the Order of all Things, aCts uniformly in every
RefpeCt, and affigns proper Periods to all Things.
Solomon fays, 'There is a Time to be borny and a
Time to die m; a fhort Maxim, which may admit
of a long Commentary. The Life of Man does
not certainly confift in Eating and Drinking, in
Waking or Sleeping, or in the indulging by
turns the Gratification of his many Appetites ; for
if this was fo, the ufual Term of Life would cer­
tainly be long enough, and there have been actu­
ally Inftances of People who have been fo fati-
ated with the round of thefe trivial Actions, as to
be weary of Life, before Death was at Hand, and
in Confequence of this wearinefs, have haftned it.
But as the Divine Old Man juftly obferves. Art is
long, and Life isJhort n ; that is, there teems to be
no juft Proportion between the Powers of the
Mind, and the Force of the Body. We hurry
on from Infancy to Childhood , from Childhood
to the Age of Man j from thence, to what is ftiled
middle
mEcclef. iii. 2. nVita brevis, ars longa, occafio
celeris, experimentum periculofum, judicitm difficile. Hippo-
crat. Aphorifm. I.
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITl
[ >4 ]
middle Aged, and then we decline a-pace into
Fccblenefs, Mifery and Dotage. Can any Man
think that this is the true order of Nature ? Has
Nature given fo many Years to Pikes, to Eagles,
and to Stags, nay, and to Serpents, at the fame
Time that Ihe denies it to Man? Be it far from
us to believe this ; let us rather ftifle our Pride and
Conceitedncfs, and believe that the /hortnefs of
Life, flows from the Wcaknefs and Wickedneis
of Man.
B u t it will be faid, that Death is not only the
End of Difeafes, but that Old Age is as much a
Difeafe as any other, and certainly brings it on.
That the human Frame is fo Conftituted as not
only to encreafe and arrive at Perfedtion, but to
d^cay alfo, and wear out. That the Flame of
Life grows after a certain Time weaker and wea­
k er*
*
, that the Solids lofe their Tone by Degrees,
and that the Vcflels grow cartelaginous, and be­
come at laft Boney; fo that Death, by Old Age,
is a natural Thing °. Be it fo, I am not contend­
ing that Men may Live for ever, or that they may
Live as I faid before, three or five hundred Years;
but this I fay, that Old Age is the only Difeafe to
which we are fubjedt by Nature *
, and that from
this, it is very poflible Men may be much longer
defended than they ufually are by the help of Art.
This
—
• Boerhaave Inftitut. Medic, 474, 475, ,053, I0-4.
t
[ 16 ]
A gainst the common Opinion, the moft au­
thentic Records of Hiftory enable me to allege,
that though vulgar Experience be oppofite to my
Notions, yet that fhortnefs of human Life, which is
now become common, was not fo always, nor is yet
fo in all Places. I fhall not dwell long on what is
faid of the great Age of the Antidiluvian Patriarchs,
I fhall content myfelf only with a few Obferva-
tions that are neceflary to my Purpofe, the Truth
of which cannot be drawn into Difpute. In the
firft Place, let it be noted, that though Men lived
to be then very Old, yet the Species was new. The
human Body had been but lately taken out of the
Earth by its Creator, and retained therefore a great
deal of its primitive Strength. We fay common­
ly in our Days, that a Man who lives Faff, takes
Pains to deftroy his Conftitution •
, and on the
Principles of Mofes, we cannot but allow, that
the Fabric of Adam's Body muft have been much
ftronger, and better compacted than ours •, and
this it was, that preferved him fo long, after he
had loft that Tree of Life, or Rule of Living
which was fuited to his primitive State. My fe-
cond Obfervation is, that thefe Patriarchs lived
in another World ; I mean a World otherwife
conftituted than ours, and after another Manner ;
and therefore, what we are told of their Age, is not
more incredible, than a Multitude of Fadts which
Experience and Evidence oblige us to believe
true.
ITUTE
[ *7 ]
true p. I thirdly obferve, that, if with ftronger
Conftitutions, and in a better difpofed World,
Men lived to various Ages, but moil of them
nine or ten Times as long as we; there feems to be
no repugnancy in admitting, that by great care of
our Conftitutions, and our helping by Art the noxi­
ous Qualities of the feveral Elements as they are
now difpofed. Men may maintain as great a Dif-
tindlion in the Periods of their Lives or Deaths.
I t is very remarkable, that not only the Sa­
cred Writers, but all the antient Chaldean, Egyp­
tian, and Chinefe Authors, fpeak of the great
Ages of fuch as lived in early Times, and this with
fuch Confidence, that Xenophon, Pliny, and other
judicious Perfons, receive their Teftimony without
Scruple. But to come down to later Times; Aitilay
King of the Huns, who reigned in the fifth Cen­
tury, lived to 124, and then died of Excefs the
firft Night of his fecond Nuptials, with one of
the moft beautiful Princefifes of that Age Piaftus,
King of Poland, who, from the Rank of a Pea-
fant, was raifed to that of a Prince, in the Year
824, lived to be 120, and governed his Subjedts
with fuch Ability to the very laft, that his Name
is ftill in the higheft Veneration amongft his Coun-
C trymen.*
*
*
p Burnet Theor. Tellur. Cudworth Syftem. Intellect.
*
*Prifcus apud Jornandes. Bonfinius Hiftoirede Hongrie, Decade
premiere 1. ii. p. 75.
I 1
8 ]
trymenr. Marcus Valerius Ccrvinus, a Roman
Conful, was celebrated as a true Patriot, and a
moft excellent Perfon in private Life, by the elder
Catof and yet Corvims was then upwards of an
hundreds Hippocrates, the beft ofPhyfcians, lived
to an hundred and four1: but AfclcpiadeSf a Perfian
Phyfician, reached 1501
1
. Galen lived in undif-
turbed Health to 104 w. Thefe Men do Honour
to their Profeflion. SophocleSf the Tragick Poet,
lived to 130 x. Democritus, the Philofopher, lived
to 104^; and Euphranor taught his Scholars at
upwards of 100 z: and yet, what are thefe to
Epimenides of Crete? who, according to 7 beopom-
pus, an unblemifhed Hiftorian, lived to upwards
of 157S I mention thefe, becaufe if there be
any Truth or Security in Hiftory, we may rely as
firmly on the Fa<5ts recorded of them, as on any
Fadls whatever; and confequently, we have the
ftrongeft Afifurance, that even an hundred, or an
hundred and twenty is not the utmoft limit of
human Life.
B u t*
i.
rGuagnini RerumPolon. p. 64. Herbert de Fulftin, lib. i.
p. 15, & Harchnoch, lib. i. cap. 2. p. 68, &c. *C2to
de Re Ruftica, Cicer. de Sene&ut. Plin. Hiftor. Natural, lib.
vii. 1Eufeb. Chronic. Petav. Rationar. Tempor. Tom.
i. p 96. uPlin. Hiftor. Natural, lib. vii. c. 14.
wFulgos. lib. viii. c. 14. p. 1096. xEufeb. Chronic,
v Petav. Rationar. Tempor. Tom. i. p. 96. z Plin.
Hiftor. Natural, lib. vii. c. 14. *biogen. Lacrt. in
vit. Epimen.
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
[ J9 3
But what is dill more to our Purpofe, it is
not this, or that Country, in which iuch aged Per-
fons are to be found ; we meet with them in many,
I was going to fay, in mod Climates. We have it
on good Authority, that in Bengal, there lived a
certain Peafant, who reached the Age of 335;
and having received Alms of many Infidel Princes,
had his Penfion continued to him by the Portu-
guezeh In Cambaja. Pliny gives us an Account, that
in the City of Parma, there were two of 130
Years of Age, three of 120, at a certain Taxation,
or rather Vifitation, and in many Cities of Italy,
People much older, particularly at Ariminium, one
Marcus Appoints, who was i5 0 c. Vincent Co-
quelin, a Clergyman, died at Paris in 1664, at
112 d. Lawrence Rutland, lived in the Orkneys to
170 e. James Sands, an Englifhman, towards the
latter End of the lad Century, died at 140, and
his Wife at 120 f. In Sweden, it is a common
Thing to meet with People of above an hundred,
and Ruabekius affirms, from Bills of Mortality,
figned by his Brother, who was a Biffiop, that in
the fmall Extent of twelve Pariffies, there died in
the Space of thirty-feven Years, 232 Men, between
100 and 140 Years of A g e t; which is the more
C 2 Credible,
bBarthol. Hift. Annat. Cent. v. Hitt. 28, p. 46. cPlin.
Hiftor. Natural. lib. vii c. 29. dMemoir, de Paris,
p. 197. 'Buchan. Hift. Scot. f Hakewill’s
Apol. lib. iii. c. i. p. 166. s Ol. Rudbek. Atlantic.
p/396.
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
[ 10 ]
Credible, fince in the Diet, affembled by the late
Queen of Sweden, in 1713, the bolded and bed
Speaker among the Deputies, from the Order of
Peafants, was confiderably above an hundred h.
Thefe Accounts, however, are far fliort of what
might be produced from Africa, and North Ame­
rica. But I confine myfelf to fuch Accounts, as
are truly Authentic, and I affemble thefe Indances,
not to fhew my own Learning, or to gratify my
Reader’s Curiofity, but with a view to fatisfy him,
that as the Fa<d is certain. Men may far tranfeend
what are edeemed the common Bounds of Life, fo
this bleding of Longevity is not confined to one
Climate or Region, and therefore we need not
difpair of finding out the Art of prolonging Life,
and keeping off the Decays of old Age in any
Country.
It may be perhaps, notwithdanding all I have
faid, fuggeded, that in fuch a Cafe as this, which
concerned Mankind in general fo much, and in
which every Man would naturally think himfelf
fo much intereded, if the Thing were at all poffi-
ble, this Art mud have been long ago found out,
efpecially, fince in all Ages there have been a Race
of Men, viz. Phyficians, whofe bufinefs it particu­
larly was, to dudy fuch Difcoverics. To this I
anfwer, that fuch Prejudices as thefe, are the
greated*
*Memoir, Hi/tor. 1713. Tom. ii. p. 336.
[ ai ]
greateft Bars to Science, that many ufeful Arts are
but of very late Invention ; and that if this was
difcovered heretofore, it might be concealed from
Pofterity for very many Reafons. But befides, the
Fadt is quite the contrary; this Art was avowedly
ftudioufly fought by the Antiens, and fome of them
are faid to have difcorvered it. Afclepiades the Per-
ftan, whom I have mentioned already, was wont
to declare, he accounted a Phyfician ignorant of
his Profefiion, who could not defend himfelf from
Difeafes-, and this Notion he fupported by his
own Example, having lived in the full enjoyment
of Health 150 Years, and was then unfortunately
killed by a fall down Stairs5
. Mithridates, King
of Pontus, pretended alio to this Secret, and fo did
many others. But the belt Anfwer that can begiven
to all Scruples of this kind, may be found in the
following PafTage from B a c o n , a famous Englijh
Monk, who lived in the 13th Century, who thus
difcourfes on the Subjedb.
“ T h a t it is pofiible to prolong Life, fays
“ he, may thus be made Evident. By Nature
“ Man is immortal, that is to lay, was fo formed
“ originally, as that he might have efcaped Dying *
,
4
1 and, even after he had finn’d, he could live a
“ thoufand Years*, in procelsof time, by little and
“ little, the Length of his Life was abbreviated.
“ Therefore
*Sab. bel. lib, x. c. 8. p. 69.
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTIT TE
[ ai ]
tc Therefore it muft needs be, that this Abbre-
“ viation is accidental, and may confequently be
“ either wholly repair’d or at leaft in part. But if
ct we would but make Enquiry into the accidental
“ Caufe of this Corruption, we fhould find, it nei-
“ ther from Heaven, nor from ought but want of
ct a Regimen of Health. For in as much, as the
“ Fathers are Corrupt, they beget Children of a
“ corrupt Complexion and Compofition; and
“ their Children, from the fame Caufe, are cor-
<l rupt themfclves, and fo Corruption is derived
“ from Father to Son, till abbreviation of Life
<
{ prevails by Succeflion. Yet for all this, it does
<
£ not follow, that it fhall always be cut ftiorter
“ and fliorter, becaufe a Term is fet in human
“ Kind, that Men fhould at the mod of their
“ Years, arrive at fourfcore; but more is their
“ Regimen, which confifts in thefe Things, Meat
“ and Drink, Sleep and Waking, Motion and
“ Reft, Evacuation and Retention, Air, and the
“ Palfions of the Mind. For if a Man would
“ obfcrve this Regimen from his Nativity, he
“ might live as long as his Nature aftumed from
“ his Parents would permit, and might be led to
“ the utmoft Term of Nature, lapfed from original
“ Righteoufnefs; which Term neverthelefs he
“ could not pafs •
, becaufe this Regimen does not
“ avail in the leaft againft the old Corruption of
“ our Parents. But it being in a manner impof-
“ fible,
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
cc
cc
[ >3 1
6
C Able, that a Man fhould be fo governed in the
“ Mediocrity of thefe Things, as this Regimen of
“ Health requires, it muft of neceftity be, that
“ Abbreviation of Life come from this Caule,
u and not only from the Corruption of our
“ Parents.
“ N o w the Art of Phyfic determines this
“ Regimen fufficiently. But neither Rich nor
“ Poor, neither Wife Men nor Fools, nor Phy-
ficians themfelves, how fkillful foever, are able
to perfect this Regimen, either in themfelves,
“ or others, as is clear to every Man. But Na-
“ ture is not deficient in Neceftaries, nor is Art
“ compleat; yea, it is able to refill and break
“ through all accidental PafTions, fo as they may
“ be deftroyed, either altogether, or in part. And
“ in the Beginning, when Men’s Age began to
“ decline, the Remedy had been eafy; but now,
“ after more than five thoufand Years, it is difti-
“ cult to appoint a Remedy.
“ N e v e rth e le s s , wife Men being moved
“ with the afcrci'aid Conftderations, have endea-
“ voured to think of fome Ways, not only a-
gainft the Defeat of every Man’s proper Regi­
men, but againll the Corruption of our Parents.
“ Not that a Man can be preferved to the Life of
“ Adam, or Artepkius, becaufe of prevailing Cor­
ruption : But, that Life may be prolonged a
Century of Years, or more, beyond the common
cc
cc
cc
<
c
Digitized by
in t e r n e t 'a r c h iv e
“ Age
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
[ » 4 ]
“ Age of Men now living, in that the Infirmities
“ of old Age might be retarded ; and if they
“ could not altogether be hindred, they might be
“ mitigated, that Life might ufefully be pro-
“ longed, yet always on this Side, the utmoft
“ Term of Nature. For the utmoft Term of
“ Nature is, that which was placed in the firft
<
c Man after Sin, and there is another Term from
“ the Corruption of every ones own Parents.
“ It is no Man’s Lot to pafs beyond both thefe
“ Terms, but one may very poflibly overcome
4t the Term of his proper Corruption. Nor y&
c
<
c do I believe that any Man, how wife fbever,
“ can attain the firft Term, though there be the
“ fame pofTibility and aptitude of human Nature,
ct to that Term which was in the firft Man. Nor
ct is it a Wonder, fince this Aptitude extends it-
<
c felf to Immortality, as it was before Sin, and
“ will be after the Refurrettion. But if you fay,
“ that neither Ariflotle, nor Plato, nor Hippocrates,
tc nor Galen, arrived at fuch Prolongation : I an-
<
e fwer you, nor at many mean Truths, which
<
c were after known to other Students; and there-
“ fore they might be ignorant of thefe great
“ Things, although they made their Attempt.
te But they bufied themfelves too much in other
“ Things, and they were quickly brought to old
“ Age, while they fpent their Lives in worfe and
“ common Things before they perceived the
“ ways
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
[ AJ 3
C
c ways to the greateft of Secrets. For we know
tc that Ariftotle faith in his Predicaments, that the
“ Quadrature of the Circle is poffible, but not
“ then known. And he confefies, that all Men
“ were ignorant of it even to his Time. But
we know, that in thele, our Days, this Truth
is known j and therefore, well might Ariftotle
“ be ignorant of far deeper Secrets of Nature.
“ Now alfo, wife Men are ignorant of many
“ Things, which in Time to come, every com-
“ mon Student (hall know. Therefore, this Ob-
“ jedtion is every way Vain k.”
S u c h were the Sentiments of this very great
and very knowing Man, in Times of the deepefl
Ignorance and darkeft Obfcurity; and fo through­
ly was he fixed in thefe Notions, and had attain­
ed fo many Lights from the Study of the Arabian
Writers, or rather of the Greek Phyficians La­
bours, digefted into the Language of that Nation,
that he afterwards wrote an exprefs Treatife on
this Subject \ of which I lhall have frequent Oc-
cafion to fpeak, and therein fuggefted many admi­
rable Precautions for the Prefervation of Life, and
avoiding the Infirmities of old Age. It is then
certain, at leaft, that we are not purfuing a Shadow,
or engaged in a clofe Search after an empty Chi­
mera *
, there may be fuch a Thing as the Art we
D would
k Roger. Bacon. De vigore Artis &Natural. 1De
Prolongatione Vic<e See.
[ atf ]
would reach, and it is not impoflible, that the
Methods fuggefted to us by the Roman Infcription,
may be the great Secret. In order to difcern the
Truth of this, or to fpeak more corredtly, in or­
der to difcover how much of Truth there is in it,
we ought firft of all to examine carefully the Na­
ture of human Breath, what Force it has, and
what mighty Feats may be expedted from it, fince
the Infcription tells us, the long-lived Hermippus
owed his Vivacity to the Nourishment he receiv­
ed from the Breath of Girls, or if we take in the
various Readings of the Infcription to the Breath
of young People of both Sexes.
In order to come to a thorough Knowlege of
this Matter, we muft confider firft what the
Breath is, and we Shall foon learn, that as Man
lives by Breath, fo that Breath is nothing more
than Air drawn in, and after palling through the
Lungs, thrown off again, that we may draw in
SreSh. I do not tye my felf here to Phyfical
Terms, or afFedl a technical Manner of fpeaking;
the Subject on which I write, is of general Con­
cern, and I would therefore exprefs my felf in a
Language that may be generally understood. This
Air, when received into our Bodies, according to
fome Phyficians, nourishes the Lamp of Life *
, but
according to all, cauSes the circulation of the
Blood, and other Juices upon which PIcalth and
Life depend. On the other Side, the Air that
we refpire, and which we commonly call the
Breath
Digitized by Original from
INTERNET ARCHIVE THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
[ >8 ]
“ lated in the Hiftory of Plants, concerning the
“ furprizing Effc£ts of Effluvia. The Shade of
“ the Walnut gives the Head-ach, and makes the
“ Body Coftive. The Effluvia of the Poppy
“ procure Sleep. The Vapour of the Yew is
“ reputed Mortal to thofe who Sleep under it; and
“ the Smell of Bean Blofloms, if long continued,
“ diforders the Senfes. The ftrong A<5
tion of the
<
c Sun upon Plants, certainly raifes Atmofpheres
“ of great Efficacy, by means of the Spirits it
“ diffufes; and the Motions of the Winds carry
<
c them to a great Diftance. The dark Shades of
“ thick Wroods, where Vapours are contra&ed,
“ occafion various Difeafes, and often Death to
“ thofe who refide among them, as appears by
“ melancholly Examples in America, which a-
“ bounds with poifonous Trees. For this Spirit
“ of Plants, is a Thing peculiar to each Species?
“ abfolutely inimitable, not producible by Art. It
“ has, therefore, Virtues peculiar to itfelf, but
“ fuch as are ftrangely agreeable to the human
“ Spirits"1*\
I f the Smell of Vegitables have fuch high
Effe&s, much ftronger furely may be expe&ed from
Animal Odours; and as to the Effedls of human
Breath, we know from Experience that they are
very extraordinary. It is generally thought, that
in
mBoerhaave Ekmenta Cheraiae.
[ ]
in the Cafe of Epidemic Difeafes, the infedion is
propagated by the Breath n, and it is faid to have
been the Pradtice of wicked Nurfes in the Time of
the Plague, to catch the dying Breath of their
departing Patients in Lawn Handkerchiefs, for the
very word of Practices; and if human Breath when
fetid and corrupt, is fo potent, why fliould we
conceive it void of Efficacy, when Perfons are in
the freed State of Health? Every body knows
how grateful and refrefhing we difeern the Breath
of Cows to be, which is thence fuppofed, exceed­
ingly wholefome; and as the Fragrancv of young
Peoples Breath, who are brought up under a pro­
per Regimen, falls little ffiort of this, one may
very reafonably fuppofe, that it partakes of the
fame Virtues.
Now to apply thefe Principles to the Mat­
ter at prefent under our Examination. It is,
I think, allowed by fuch as are bed acquainted
with the Secrets of Nature, that there is a very
bride and lively Motion in the Blood of young
People to which, according to the Laws of Animal
Oeconomy, Health, Vigour, and Growth, are
attributed. On the other Hand, a Decay of this
lively Motion, and in confequence thereof, a
duggidi Circulation, which by Degrees ceafes al­
together in the fined and fmalled VelTels, is held
to
a Hodges de Pefte. Profper Alpin. Hiflor. Natural iFgypt.
iTE
r 30 ]
to be the principal Caufe of the ftiffnefs in the
Mufcles, which creates that wearinefs and want of
Force, that is the great Incommodity of old Age.
There feems therefore, to be nothing forced or
abfurd, in conceiving that the Warm, Aftive,
and Balfamic Particles thrown off by the Lungs
of young People into the Air, which they Refpire,
may give it fuch a Quality, as when fucked in
again by a Perfon in Years, fhall communicate
an extraordinary Force to the circulating Humours
in his Body, and fo quicken and enliven them,
as to beftow a kind of refle&ive Youthfulnefs,
which may for many Years keep off and delay
thole Infirmities, to which People of the fame Age
are generally Subject. The more we confider this
Do&rine, the greater Care we take in comparing
Caufes and Effects of the like Nature, and the clo-
fer we attend to fuch Experiments as feem fitteft
for the clearing up of this Matter, the more we
lhall be fatisfied of the Truth of this Conje&ure,
and the more credible this Invention of Hermippus
will appear.
I am very fenfible, that there are many vain,
ill grounded, and fantaftic Notions that prevail
among idle People, in relation to the Breath; fome
have fancied that Socerers have a Power of fal'cina-
ting therewith, fuch as they breath upon, and
therefore, in many of the Books which treat of
Witchcraft, this is ufually thrown in as a Circum-
ftance ;
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
[ 3« ]
fiance; neither is it a new, but an ° old Piece of
Superftition, which has fubfifted in the World
many hundred Years before the late Affair in
France, where Mifs Cadiere attributes her Poflcf-
fion, to the Breath of the Prieff p. We are like-
wife told of Nations in the Indies, who cure all
Difeafes by breathing on fuch as are affetfied with
them; but this ought to be no more regarded than
what we meet with in Pliny, of another Indian
Nation, who lived towards the Sources of the
Ganges, who have no Mouths, and who are nou-
rifhed by fweet Savoursi. Thefe are either ablo-
lute Fictions, or allegorical Accounts, which at
this diftance of Time, and perhaps, when Pliny
himfelf wrote them, were not underftood. He
gathered mofl of his Faffs from the Greek Wliters,
and they frequently difguifed, as they fometimes fa!-
fified their Narrations. But thefe Fictions, which
every body can difcern, ought not to prejudice
Matters of Faff, of the Truth of which, any
Enquirer may be latisfied.
T h e re are in Spain, a Race of People, or as
fome Writers fay, an Order of Knighthood, ftiled
Salutadores, who pretend to cure Wounds by
breathing on the Patient, and repeating certain
Prayers,*
*
*
° Pfellus de dasmon.
p See the feveral Fadtums in that famous Cnufe, in which
this Bufinefs of Fafcinating by the Breatn is largely treated.
*
*Plin. Hiftor. Natural, lib. vii. c. z. Cael. Rhod. Antiq. Left,
lib. xiv. c. 21. The Name given to this Nation by thefe Au-
ttef«(jy be Aflomes. . from
INTERNET ARCHIVE THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
f
[ 31 ]
Prayers, which they affirm were taught by St.
Elmo r. The Church of Rome has condemned this
Fanatical Practice, and fo do I ; but there is another
fomewhat related to this, which, whether Nature,
or Chance firft introduced into the World, is uncer­
tain but which is not like ever to wear out; and that
is, breathing on People in a Swoon, in order to
bring them to themfelves, which is found to be
very effectual, as from natural Caufes might well
be expeCted. Let us then in all Cafes of this
Nature, diftinguifh between Realbn, and report
vulgar Opinion, and the Senfe of capable Judges,
the Practices of Mountebanks and Deceivers, and
Deductions from Phyfical Principles, by Men of
Learning and found Senfe. I do not however,
deny, that popular Remedies have found Admit­
tance into Phyfic, and ought there to be retained;
for, in Phyfic as well as in Chemiftry, the Ef­
fects of Medicines are confidered as Experiments,
upon which wife Men Reafon, and afiign the Ufes,
though there might be another Sort of People
who firft found them out; it is one Thing to pre-
icribe rationally, and another to be lucky in Cures.
Hoffman and Boerhaave> are the moft different
People in the World from Paracelfus and Van HeU
wont, who yet, were very extraordinary Men in
their Way.
I
' Delrio Magic. Difquifit. v. ii. p. 114^
*
[ 33 1
I do not imagine that Hermippus, by reafoning,
Found out this Remedy againft old Age; I am in­
clined rather to think, it found out him, that is to
fay, by vigorous Effects, he was led to the Caufe,
and by feeling himfelf, revived by this Medicine,
taught the Knowlege and Efficacy of it. If one
was difpoled to purfue the Method of the Antients,
and to drefs up this Story in the Garb which Plato
would have given it, one might relate it thus.
W h e n the blooming 'ffsyjbe, whom the Graces
adorn, and the Mufes inftruft, converfes with the
good old Hermippus, her Youth invigorates his
Age, and the brilk Flame that warms her Heart,
communicates its heat to his, fo often as the love­
ly Virgin breaths, the kindly Vapours fly off full
of the lively Spirits that fwim in her Purple Veins;
thefe old Hermippus greedily drinks in, and as
Spirits quickly attradl Spirits, fo they are prefent-
ly mingled with the Blood of the old Man. Thus
the Vapour, which but a Moment before was ex­
pelled by the brilk beating of the Heart of Tbyjbe,
is communicated by the Aither to Hermippus, and
palling through his Heart, ferves to invigorate his
Blood, fo that almoft without a Metaphor, we
may fay, the Spirits of c
ThyJbe give Life to Her-
mippus. For, what is there more eafy to ap­
prehend, than that the aftive Spirits of this brilk
and blooming Maid, ffiould, when received from
the Air, thaw the frozen Juices of her aged
E Friend,
D igitized^
INTERNET ARCHIVE
, Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
t
[ 34 3
Friend, and thereby give them a new Force, and a
freer Paflage; and thus Hermippus pofieffing at once
the Strength his Nature retains, and borrowing
frefh Spirits from the lovely c
thyjbe, what Won­
der that he, who enjoys two Sorts of Life, (hould
live twice as long as another Man ?
Such had been its Appearance, if we had de­
rived this Fa£t from a Grecian Sage, and then
perhaps, it had been honoured with numerous
Commentaries, and laboured Explications. But
the Romans were a graver People, they contented
themfelves with delivering Truth in the Language
of Truth, and thought, that like all great Beauties,
fhe looked belt in a plain Drefs.
H i s t or y informs us, that very many who
fpend their Time in the Inftrudlion, and of confe-
quence in the Company of Youth, have lived to
great Ages; thus Gorgias%the Mailer of Ifocrates9
and many other eminent Perfons, lived to be 1085
the year before his Death fomebody demanded in
his School, how he had been able to fupport fo
long the tedious Burthen of old A ge; the Sophift
replied, that he regretted nothing he had done,
and felt nothing of which he could reafonably
complain *
, my Youth, faid he, cannot accufe me,
nor can I accufe my old A ges. His Scholar I t ­
erates,
‘Plin. Hillor. Natural, lib. vii. c. 48. Valer. Max. lib. viii.
c. 13.
[ 35 ]
crates, in the 94th Year of his Age, publiffied a
Book, and furvived that Publication four Years, in
all which Time he betray’d not the leafb Failure,
either in Memory or in Judgment; but as he had
long lived, fo he died with the Reputation of being
the molt Eloquent Man in Greece *. Xenophilus,
an eminent Pythagorean Philofopher, taught a
numerous Train of Students, till he arrived at the
Age of 105, and even then enjoyed a very per­
fect Health, and yet he left this World before his
Abilities left him u. Nicholas Leonicenus read the
Phyfic Le£tures at Ferrara, in the lad Age, up­
wards of 70 Years, and Languis tells us, that when
he heard him, he was fomewhat above 96, and
to a Perfon who afked him, by what Rule he had
acquired this green old Age, he anfwered, by de­
livering up my Youth chad to my Man’s Eftate w
.
Platerus tells us, that his Grandfather who exer-
cifed the Office of a Praeceptor to fome young
Noblemen, married a Woman of thirty, when he
was in the 100 Year of his Age. His Son by this
Marriage, did not day like his Father, but took
him a Wife when he was twenty; the old Man
was in full Health and Spirits at the Wedding,
and lived fix Years afterwards*. Thefe are indan-
E 2 ces
*Plutarch in vit. Ifocrat. uPlin. Hiftor. Natural, lib.
vii. c. 50. Valer. Max. ubi fupra. wMelch. Adam,
in vit. Germ. Med. p. 141. xPlateri Obferyat. lib i,
p. 233, 234.
[ 37 ]
an ancient Greek Poet, though he was ten Years
younger than myfelf, was admired and celebrated
For his having wrote a Tragedy, why fhould I be
efteemed lefs Happy, or lefs myfelf, who have
compofed and Publifiied a Comedy ? When I am
confident, the fame Poet, though he was ten years
Younger than I am, yet had not a better Share of
Health, or a livelier Imagination y. I make ule of
the Authors own Words, becaufe Cornaro muft of
all others, have beft known himfelf, and the very
Spirit he fhews in reciting thefe Things, is a moll
evident Proof of the ftrength, vigour, and youth-
Fulnefs of his Conftitution. I will, however, men­
tion another more modern Inftance.
Francis Secardi Hongo, ufually diftinguifiled by
the Name of Huppazoli, was Conful for the flate
of Venice, in the Ifiand of Sew, where he died,
in the beginning of 1702, when he was very
near 115. This Man was a Native of Cafal, in
the Montferrat. He married in Scio, when he
was young, and being much addidted to the
Fair-Sex, he had in all five Wives, and fifteen
or twenty Concubines, all of them young,
beautiful Women, by whom he had forty nine
Sons and Daughters, whom he educated with the
utmoft Tendernefs, and was conftantly with them,
as much as his Bufinefs would permit. He was
never
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
y See Cornaro’s Benefits of a fober Life, p, \
[ 3« ]
never Sick, his Sight, Hearing, Memory, and
Activity, were amazing; he walked every Day
about eight Miles, his Hair, which was long, and
graceful, became White by that Time he was
Fourfcore, but turned Black at an Hundred, as
did his Eyebrows and Beard at 112. At n o ,
he loft all his Teeth, but the Year before he died,
he cut two large ones with great Pain. His Food
was generally a few Spoonfuls of Broth, after
which he eat fome little Thing roafted; his
Breakfaft and Supper, Bread and Fruit, his con-
ftant drink, diftilled Water, without any addition
of Wine, or other ftrong Liquor, to the very laft.
He was a Man of ftrid Honour, of great Abilities,
of a free, pleafant, and lprighdy Temper, as we
are told by many Travellers who were all (truck
with the good Senfe, and good Humour of this
polite old Man z. The Reader will eafily difcern,
that the Point upon which I chiefly inflft, i*
s his
having continually young Company about him,
efpecially young Women; for though neither him-
felf, nor for ought I know any body elle, ever
remarked that this might contribute to the length­
ening his Life, yet fo the Fad might be, though
unnoticed. It is indeed more for my Purpofe to
colled Accounts like thefe, where there is clear
evidence of the Fad, I would eftablifh before the
Principle,
y Voyages de Tournefort, &c.
[ 39 ]
Principle, to which, I refer, it was ever thought
ofj than to quote Inftances ofa frefher Date, fince
the Thing might have been in my Head. Thele
are Inftances that cannot be warp’d, I have cau-
tioufly cited my Authors, and fometimes the
Words of the People themfelves, fo that I need
not afk, where I can force Belief.
I will fuppole then of our Hermippus, that he
was a Tutor or Dire£tor of a College of Virgins,
for fince the Infcription tells us, not what he was,
we may be allowed all the Freedom of a rational
Conje&ure. This College of Virgins, I conceive
to be founded purely for the Sake of Education,
and thereby affording aquick and conftant Succeffi-
on of little Maids, from the Age of between five
and fix, to thirteen and fourteen. I imagine it might
o u
be requifite for the Health, as well as proper In-
ftru&ion of thefe young Ladies, that they rofe pretty
early in the Morning, and this in all Seafons of *
the Year. In the Spring and Summer they might
be allowed to walk and enjoy the refrelhing Plea-
fure of rural Profpecfts, but always in the Com­
pany of their Diredlor, who fhouid be obliged to
entertain them during the Walk, with feafonable
and lively Stories. If this feeming extraordinary
Mode of Education difguft Perfons of a nice and
prudifh Tafte, give me leave to obferve, that the
Greeks ufed it of old, and that it is (till praflifed
by all the Eajlern Nations. Milejian, or Arabian
Tales,
Digitized by Originalfrom
INTERNET ARCHIVE THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
C 40 ]
Tales, in which a Vivacity of Imagination ap­
pears, with here and there a Ray of found Judg­
ment, fuit beft with tender Minds, and efpecially
with feminine Underftandings. Women are re­
markably governed by Example, or to make Ufe
of a modern Phrafe, by the Fafhion. W hy,
therefore, fhould they not be inftruded by Ex­
ample ? There is lefs Difference than mod People
imagine between real and feigned Stories. They
differ but as Morning and Evening Shadows, the
one is the faint Picture of what has paffed, the
other as lively a Reprefentation of what may
poffibly come. In all other Refpe&s they are alike
the Story of Alexander and Roxana, is now as
much a Dream as any in the Perfian Tales. One
Advantage that Ideal relations have over Stories
grounded upon Fads, is, that we may contrive
them fo as to avoid improper Circumftances, which
. cannot frequently be done with refped to the
latter, but at the Expence of Truth. W ith
fuch Difcourfes, after their early Devotions were
over, the fair Pupils might be entertained in Win­
ter Mornings, and the Day be thus opened with
a free, chearful, and kindly Spirit, alike agreeable
to his lovely Wards, and grateful to the good
old Man.
A f t e r this Morning Exercife, I fuppofe that
HennippuSy and his Female Pupils, retire in order
to bathe, to drefs, and to adorn themfelves, ail
which
*
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITl TE
[ 4 i ]
which I look upon as no lels necefifary for the old
than fit and convenient for the young W o­
men. Every body knows, that the Antients
were remarkably fond of Baths, and of Undtions,
efpecially for old Men ; and the Arabian Phyfi-
cians preferibe them once in a Week or ten Days,
and order fome hot and well fpiced Meat to be
eaten after ufing diem *
, but to be fure wafhing,
cleanfing, and keeping the Body neat, as they
tend to make old Men pleafant and agreeable to
fuch as converfe with them, fo they contribute not
a litde to their own Eafe, and to the preferving
that Supplenefs in the Limbs, which is frequently
attacked by old Age. On the other Hand, ele­
gance in Drefs, and great Nicenels about their
Bodies, is of very great Confequence to the Pre-
fervation of fuch a Temper in thefe young Maids,
as is fit to make them ufeful in that Way of which
we are fpeaking. About Noon, after all this Ex-
ercile is quite over, I fuppofe Hermippus meets
his Maidens with as much Chearfulnefs, as his Con-
ftitution will admit, while they receive him with
that fprightlinefs that is natural to theirs. A fhort
Converfation fhould precede a light, well-chofen
and wholefome Entertainment, of which all feed­
ing freely, but not to fulnefs, feafon the necef-
fary Bufinefs of recruiting the Body with fuch in­
genious and diverting Stories, as may amufe and
recreate die Mind. After the Repaft, Mufic,
F Vocal
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITLrTE
[ 4 1 ]
Vocal and Inftrumental, and then a Walk, or if
the Weather will not permit it, fome breathing
Exercife within Doors, to fuch a Degree as may
excite Colour, but without forcing a Sweat.
The Evening fhould among luch Company,
be chiefly dedicated to Diverfion, the Ladies, and
efpecially the youngeft, fhould be indulged in all
the little innocent Paftimes that contribute either
to the Exercife of their Limbs, or the Improve­
ments of their Wits, and thefe ought to take
their Turns, according to the Rule prefcribed by
their Director. For Inftance, after Blindman’s-
Buflf, Hoop and Hide, or hunting the Hare, there
fhould fucceed Queftions and Commands, Pictures
and Motto’s, Riddles, or fomething of the like
Sort j and laft of all, two or three of the Eldefl
might gently lead them by a few grave Stories into
a fit Difpofition for their Evening Devotions;
after which, they might retire to their Dormitory,
each having her proper Cell, but all open at the
Top, as alfo the Director’s Apartment, at the
upper End. In a College like this, with fuch
Company, and under fuch Regulations, where all
the Pupils are Chafte as Diana’s Nymphs, frefh
as the Spring, fweet as the Summer, and harmlefs
as the Winter, ever full of Life and Spirits, free
from Difeafes, Cares or Diffractions of Mind, eafy
in their Tempers, affable in their Manners, fond
of obliging, grateful when obliged j I can fcarce
imagine
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
t 43 1
imagine that any Man could fpend his Time more
agreeably than Hermippus, live freer from a Senfe
of Sorrow, or more remote from the Shadow of
Death. By this Regimen, he might be provided
with an almoft continual Refrefhment of their O-
doriferous Breaths, and never lofe the'r Company,
but at Seafons proper for them and for him. His
Blood would not only receive conflant Supplies of
Spirits from the artificial Atmofphere, constituted
by this Contrivance, but his Genius alfo would be
kept brifk and lively, by a perpetual Intercourfe
with Perfons in the mod a£tive Period of Life.
Secluded in fuch a Retreat, from all the hurry,
all the Diforder, all the Accidents that attend a
Life of Bufinefs, he would eafily efcape Difquiet
and Fatigue, removed from all the Views of Profit,
Pomp and Pleafure; he would never feel the cruel
Difturbance of any reftlefs Pafiion, the defire of
getting would never torment him, he would never
be perplexed with the Fears of lofing, if his Heart
was at any Time touched with Pain, it muft be
at the parting with a Scholar, and even this would
admit of fome Relief, from the Pleafure afforded
him by receiving a new Difciple. At leaft, thefe
are the Comforts I have figured to myfelf, and
fuch of my Readers as are bleffed with more
vigorous Fancies, may conceive him in PofTeffion
cf itill higher and more exquifite Bleffings.
F 2 I am
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
I 44 ]
I am fenfible it may be obje&ed, that the whole
of this Suppofition is abfolutely Arbitrary, that
amongft the Romans, there never was any fuch
Collegea as this under the Diredtion of any Man,
nor for ought appears, in any other Nation. But
then it is to be confidered, that I have fo Bated
it. If Hermippus was really nourifhed by the
Breath of Women, as I have already fhewn,
it is very reafonable to believe he might, then
we muft conceive to ourfelves fome Occupation,
fome Way of Life in which he might eafily,
and conftantly receive this comfortable Medicine;
and if the Account I have given be fo far pro­
bable in itfelf, and free from Abfurdity, as to con­
vey clearly to the Reader’s Mind fuch an Idea
as I would willingly have it, it is not at all
material, whether there ever was fuch a College,
for that comes not at all within my Afiertion, it
is fufficient for my Purpofe, if fuch a College
there might have been. Another Reader may,
perhaps, devife fome eafier, clearer, and more
probable Method of Interpreting this Infcription,
if he does, I fhall not difpute with, or envy him
the Fertility of his Invention. My Account of
the Matter fcrves to help the Notion I have form­
ed of the Poflibility of the Thing, and therefore
as*
*Except it may be the Puellze Fauftinianae, of whom we find
fome mention made in the antient Infcriptions.
Original from
.THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
[ 45 1
as a Mathematician draws his Figures in order to
explain the Proportions he lays down, fo I have
exhibited this Example, to illudrate the Do&rine
that I would recommend.
O ne may likewife fugged, that mod of the
Examples hitherto alledged of the long Life of
fuch as have taught young People, do not reach
the Point I have advanced, in as much as they all
confefiedly belong to young Men. Yet, if this
Obje&ion affefts what I have delivered, the Credit
of the Infcription remains dill untouch’d, fince
fome underdand it of Boys, though I incline to
interpret it of Girls, for Reafbns that will hereafter
occur. But, whoever makes thisObje&ion, mud ad­
mit, at the Time of making it, that there is an ex­
traordinary Efficacy in the Breath of young Men,
which duly confidered, will be found a very great
conceffion in my Favour; fince, if there be any fuch
Efficacy in the Breath of young Men, no Reafon
can be affigned why my Suppofition fhould be held
lefs reafonable. All Things, therefore, that make
in general in Favour of human Breath, or in Fa­
vour of the Breath of young People, tend to
drengthen and fupport what I have laid down.
As to thofe particular Circumdances which render
female Breath preferable, it lies upon me to affign
them, and this I fhall do in its proper Place-, in
the mean Time give me leave to r nark one
Thing more in Favour of my fi&itious Hidory
of
Digitized by Original from u
INTERNET ARCHIVE THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTIt I t E
[ 4d ]
of the College of Virgins, viz. That the great-
eft Men have thought it allowable to introduce
fuch Dcfcriptions wherever they have judged
them requifite, or agreeable to the Subject of
which they were treating. The learned Sir Thomas
Morey laid down a Syftcm of Politics in his
Utopiah. Barclay has written an ingenious Hiftory
in his Argents, and the great Chancellor Bacon has
exhibited the moft beautiful of all Fi&ions in his
Hiftory of the New Atlantis c, which Hiftory,
if I miftake not, gave Birth to the Royal Society
in England.
Bu t I muft not conceal two other Obje£Uons
of far greater Weight, that have been made to
this Dofrrine of mine, by the ingenious Mr.
Nunning.
bThere are fome Difputes about the firft Edition of this
Book; The famous Mr. Maittaire fancies, there was one in
the Year 1516; but he is miftaken, the firft Edition of it
bore the following Title. De Optimo Republics ftatu, de
que nova infula Utopia Thomae Mori libri duo, quibus prefi-
guntur Epiltolre Defiderii Erafmi, Gul. Budsei, Petri yEgidii, ac
in fine adjun£ta Hieron. Buflidii Epillola. Bafileae. Joan.
Froben. 1518. in 40. and has been printed very often fince.
It was tran(lated into Englifh by Ralph Robinfon, in 1557,
which Tranllation Bilhop Burnet miitook for the Author’s
own; however, he ventured to make another Tranllation in
1683, and a very good one it is. It was tranllated into Italian
in 1548, but the Author of that Verfion is not known.
There have been three Tranflations in French, of which that
by Sorbire is eiteemed the belt.
c The Author is right enough in his Obfervation, Abraham
Cowley borrowed his Notion of a Philofophic College from
Ix>rd Bacon’s Atlantis, and from Mr. Cowley’s Notion of
fiich a College, the Royal Society had its beginning.
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITl TE
[ 47 ]
Nunningd. If, fays that learned Perfon, your Sy-
flem be founded in Truth, if there be really any
fuch Vigour and Efficacy in the Breath of Women,
or even of young Women, how comes it to pafs,
that thofe Men have not attained to any extraor­
dinary Age, who are known to have had the
greateft Advantages poffible in this Way ? Upon
this, he puts two Queftions, Why, fays he, did
not Solomon, whofe Wives and Concubines were
fo numerous, and who undoubtedly were young,
beautiful, and kept entirely from other Men ;
Why did not this Solomon, continues he, live be­
yond the ordinary Age of Man *
, whereas, the
Scripture tells us, that he did not reach that which
is common in our Times ? This is the firft Ob­
jection, and it muft be owned, that Mr. Nunning
has put it very modeflly, for Solomon had befide
this, many-other Advantages. He was undoubt­
edly, a great Philofopher, an excellent Naturalift,
and underftood perfectly the Art of conducting
Life, to which we may add, that fome have be­
lieved him an exquifite Anatomift, Phyfician and
Chymift •
, fo that if he died before Seventy, who
was poffiefled of fuch extenfive Power, fuch im-
menfe Riches, and fuch Wifdom as never centred
in
dThis Gentleman is Cannon of Vreden, and is now pub-
lidiing in Germany, in Quarto, a Work, Entituled Monuments.
Monarterienfia, which is to contain, the Elogies of all the
great Men who have been Natives of the Bifhoprick of
Muniter.
Digitized by Original from
INTERNET ARCHIVE THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
f 4» 1
in another Man, what Reafon is there to fuppofe
that i'uch as are infinitely below him in all Re-
fpedts, fliould acquire the Knowledge of that
which was indubitably hid from him? This is the
Cafe Rated fairly, freely, and fully, for we mean
not to cheat or deceive our Readers, but to inform
and fatisfy them *
, our endeavour is not to give
an Air of veracity to our own Opinion, but to
re&ify our own Notions by the Standard of
Truth.
Mr. Nuniting*s fecond Objection, is fetched
From the Seraglio’sof the tfurkijh Monarchs. Why,
fays he, do not the great Lords of the Ottoman
Empire, who have fuch Numbers of young and
fine Women, always in their Power, live to a
great Age? or rather, why fince they have this
Balfam of Life continually in their Poffefiion, are
they fhorter lived than other Men? and that too,
in a Country where there are more long lived
People than in many others ? This excellent
Perfon might have fortified alfo this Obje&ion,
by extending it to the Shahs of Perfia, the Han’s
of Partary, the gseat Moguls, and all the other
Eajlern Princes, who in this refpeft, enjoy to the
full the fame advantages with the Turhijh Sultans.
I am not afraid of giving the utmoft Weight to
thefe Suggeftions, becaufe if I can fairly and clear­
ly refute them, my Dodtrine mult appear, if not
abfolutely certain, much more probable, at leaft,
and
Digitized by Original from
INTERNET ARCHIVE THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
I 49 1
and much more agreeable to Truth, than if thefe
Objections had never been mentioned. I do indeed
admit, that both are very plaufible, both ieem
direCtly diltruCtive of my Syftem ; but if notwith-
llanding all this, I am as I think, I am in a
capacity of Ihewing that they do not at all affect
what I have advanced, but that on the contrary
when duly confidered, they fortify it extreamly,
then I hope the Reader will attend with the greater
Satisfaction, to fome additional Arguments that I
fhall offer in fupport of this Notion. It is the great
Beauty of Truth, that the more we examine it,
the more different Lights in which we place it,
the more Pains we take in turning and twilling it,
the more we perceive its Excellency, and the better
the Mind is fatisfied about i t ; whereas Falfhood,
however fair it may appear when drefs’d out to
advantage, or fee in a falfe light, yet it never can
Hand the Tell of a ItriCl and unbiafed Enquiry.
T h e Hiflory of Solomon is very largely record­
ed in the Sacred Writings, and the Circumltances
therein laid down, enable us to give fuch an Ac­
count of the Manner of that Prince’s Life, that
we need be under no Sort of Surprize at the earli-
nefs of his Death. He was, it is true, the wifeft
Man that ever lived, of which he has left us very
noble Teflimonies in his Writings. He was a
great Politician, excellently fkillcd in the Arts,
and a perfect Mailer of the polite Literature of
thofe Times •
, but with all this, we fee that he
G was
Digitized by Original from
INTERNET ARCHIVE * THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
[ J O ]
was a very voluptuous Man. Science and Pleafure
engrolTed him by turns, he would have pufhed his
Refearches beyond the Bounds of human Nature;
and when he found himfelf checked, then he be-
gan to complain of the burthen of Knowlege, and
the tirefomenefs of fuch Enquiries. To deliver
himfelf from thefe Anxieties, to calm his Cares,
to drown his Doubts, and bury his Apprehenfions
in Oblivion, he had recourfe to fenfual Delights,
having conftantly in his Seraglio a Multitude of fine
Women, amounting, as the Author of the Book of
Kings tells us, to feven hundred Wives, who were
Princeffes, and three hundred Concubines6. W ith
thefe, he led an effeminate, lafcivious, and profligate
Life. Thefe Women were of all Nations, Egypti­
ans^ Moabites, Ammonites, Edomites, Zidonians, and
Hittites, and each endeavoured to recommend her*
felf to his Favour, by all the ftudied Arts of
Luxury f. Amongft fuch a Heterogenous Mafs of
Females, all corrupt in their Morals, all different
in their Cufloms, all filled with Jealoufy and E-
mulation of each other: What reafon was there
to hope either for Quiet, or for Health ?
In the Defcription we have given of the Life
o f Hermippus, we have ufed our utmoft Endeav­
our, to fhew the means by which this Sovereign
Medicine we are difcourfing of, operates, and how
it
e i Kings, xi. 3.
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
f Ibid v. 1.
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITl TE
[ 5 ' ]
it is to be employed. We fuppofe our old Man
to be of a gentle uniform, and pleafant Difpofition,
always eafy, always content, and furrounded by
Numbers of blooming Virgins, too young to have
either their Bodies, or their Thoughts tainted ♦
,and
we fuppofe thefe Perfons fpending their Time to­
gether, in chafte and innocent Amufements. But
the Life of Solomon was the very reverfe of this,
his Thoughts were in a perpetual Hurry, his Mind
in conftant Adgitation *
, one Day deeply plunged
in Philofophical and Metaphyfical Contemplations\
the next funk in fceptical Doubts, and gloomy
Reflexions; the third giving a loofe to his Plea-
fures, and abandoning himfclf without Reftraint,
not only to the Lewdnefs of his own Defires, but
to the wilder Extravagancies of a Multitude of
vicious Women. All this we learn, not only from
Hiftories of indubitable Authority, but from his
own Writings, there we fee the Struggles of his
Heart; there we fee his reftlefs love of Pleafure;
his intemperate Third after Knowlege, and in
confequence thereof his Agonies and Difquiet. Is
there any likenefs between thefe two Characters ?
Can one imagine, that the Converiation of Wo­
men in fuch a Diverfity of Circumftances, ffoould
have the fame Effect on Solomon and Hermippus ?
Or can it enter into the Head of any Man, blef-
led with a found Underftanding, that this, or any
other Medicine, could defend Solomon from old
G 2
Digitized by
TERNET ARCHIVE
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
[ 5* 3
Age, confidering the Courfe he held ? Was there
ever a Man that ftudied the Prolongation of Life,
with more aftiduity than Solomon laboured to fhort-
en it ? Did he not harrafs his Spirits with intricate
and perplexed Enquiries ? Did he not vex himfclf
with perpetual Queftions about prefent and future
Felicity, which rendered it impoflible for him to
enjoy it ? Did he not, by indulging his Pafirons,
fcatter the Seeds of Deftru&ion ? and did he not,
by his Luxury and Intemperance, cherifh and cul­
tivate them, till they at laft, as they always do, dif-
turbed the Frame of his Mind, as well as ruined
his Conftitution ? What wonder then that Solomon
was no Long-liver ?
W h a t I have faid, will, I dare fay, fatisfy
the worthy Gentleman who propofed this Doubt,
and every Reader who ferioufly confiders it. The
Obje&ion takes Solomon for a Perfon in that very
Situation wherein I would place Hermippus ; but I
have (hewn this to be altogether groundlefs. The
Obje&ion takes it for granted, that I look upon the
Breath of young Women to be a univerfal Medi­
cine •
, whereas, I afiert only, that the Breath of
young Virgins in a particular Way, may defend
a Perfon againft old Age, who, by Temperance
and Moderation defends himfelf againft Difeafes.
But, befides what I have mentioned, I have yet
lbmething more to lay as to Solomon, which I might
have offered before, and which would have ex-
cufed
Digitized by Original frffm
INTERNET ARCHIVE THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
[ 5 3 3
cufed me From examining his Cafe at all, if I had
inclined to have flickered myfelf under any fuch
Subterfuge.
A ll the Accounts we have of Solomon, fuppofe'
him to be under a particular Difpenfation, and that
he had recourfe immediately to God himfelf, at lead
twice in his Life, fo that this Man was not in the
lame Situation with others, and therefore, not fit
to be confidered as an Example. I might pufh
this further kill, by obferving, that God waspleaf-
ed to promife him length of Days, if he imitated
the Righteoufnefs of his Father David; fo that he
had a much better Medicine in his Power, than
human Wifdom could lupply him with, and yet
he knew not how to ufe it. The Scriptures fay.
That when Solomon was old, his Wives turned
away his Heart after other Godsg. Oldnefs is
here ufed in the Senfe in which I underfland it,
that is, with refpedt to the Condition, and not to
the Years of Life, for in that Senfe, Solomon was
not Old when he died, fince he exceeded not Sixty-
feven. The plain meaning, therefore, of this
Text muft be, that when his Vices had broken
his Conftitution, and weakened his Faculties, then
theie Women to whom he gave himfelf up, drew
him to Idolatry, and thefe Nurfes of his fecond
Childhood, induftrioufly taught him to fall.
Drawn
s Ibid. v. 4,
Digitized by
•INTERNET ARCHIVE
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITL TE
[ 5 4 ]
Drawn by their Delufions, he facrificed both
Titles to long Life, viz. That which Temperance
gave him by the Law of Nature, and that which
by an extraordinary Revelation he received from
God himfelf. For this, no doubt included that,
fince we cannot fuppofe that God promifed long
Life to Solomon without an implied Condition, that
he attended to the natural Means for attaining it,
the Laws and Promifes of God mult be always
rational, becaufe they are made and propounded to
reafonable Creatures.
A f t e r examining this Objeftion fo fully, it
will caufe me much lefs Trouble to clear up the
other. For what can there be more contrary to,
or irreconcileable with the Do&rine I have laid
down, than the Lives led by Eajlern Monarchs ;
all Writers agree, that to give Strength and Firm-
nefs to the Body, there is nothing fo neceffary as
Chaftity in green Years. The Germans, as Tacitus
tells us, were won’t to preferve themfelves
from Women, till they were thirty at leaft, and
this he afligns as the Principal Caufe of their Ro-
buftnefs, Courage and long Life h. Long before
his Time, the Spartans had formed the fame No­
tions led thereto by rcafon and experience but
with regard to the Afiatic Princes, they never
know what Purity of Manners, and Chaftity of
Mind
fcDe Morib. German. ' Plutarch, ih Lacon.
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
[ 5 5 1
Mind mean, they are corrupted in their Mother’s
Nurieries, and the dilTolute Temper of the Father,
prevents the Virtuous Education of the Son.
While they are yet Striplings, they are permitted
the ufe of Women, in order to enervate their
Minds, and when they grow up, an effeminate
Luxtfry, becomes the prime Bufinels of their Lives.
Amongft fuch Men as thefe, fhall we look for
Health or long Life? Is this agreeable to the Rules
of Wifdom or Science, I mean to the natural
Di&ates of good Senfe, or to the Maxims of Phy-
fic ? If not, where lies the Strength of the Ob-
Je&ion ?
B u t befides all this, what if there be Fill a
fhorter, plainer, or more decifilve Anfwer, which
is, that we can never properly judge in this Cafe,
becaufe Experience teaches us that thefe Princes
feldom or never die a natural Death. In the
Field they are expofed to the common Chances of
W ar, and if we look into the Tnrkijh, Perfian, or
Indian Stories, we fhall find at leaf! a third part
of their Monarchs have fallen in Battle. Again,
confider them in their civil Capacity, and from
the very Nature of an Arbitrary deipotic Govern­
ment, you mult be fenfible that they are conti­
nually liable to popular Infurre&ions, in which
many of their Princes have likewife fallen. But if
you purfue them further, and follow them into the
Recelfes of their private Life, as you will perceive
them
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
[ 5* ]
them to be no way happier, fo you will find them
much lefs fafe than any of their Subjefrs. The In­
trigues and Jealoufies of their many Wives, mufi:
always expole fuch Princes to a multitude of Dan­
gers, efpecially in Countries where Poifons are very
common, and where the molt dexterous Ufe of
them is common too.
But what if the Sacred Hiftory, which fur-
nifhed the firft and ftrongeft Objection, contains
another Hiftory, which is the fulleft, cleareft and
molt fatisfacftory Proof that can be offered in Fa­
vour of the Opinion I efpoufe ? The Cafe I mean is,
that of King David in his old Age, which I fhall
State fully and fairly. It is faid, that King David
grew Old and ftricken in Years, his natural Heat
decaying to luch a degree, that no Addition of
Cloaths could give him Heat *
, in this Diftrefs, the
Phyficians advifed him, to the very Remedy which
I recommend. Let there be fought, laid they,
for my Lord the King, a young Virgin, and let
her Hand before the King, and let her Cherifh
him, and let her lie in his Bofom, that my Lord
the King may get heat. Accordingly Abijhag
the Shunamite, was brought to the King, and of
her we read, that fhe was a Damfel very fair, that
Ihe cheriftied the King, and miniftred to him i
but the King knew her m k. This is the Story,
as
k I. Kings i. i. See alfo the Commentaries of Munfter,
Grotius, &c. among the larger Critics, who all interpret
thefe PalTiges of Scripture in this way.
Digitized by Original from
INTERNET ARCHIVE THE GETTY RESEARCH INST
[ SI ]
as it lies in the Book, and from hence I think it
plainly appears, that the Phyfician’s of thole
Times, who were well acquainted with the Efficacy
of this Remedy, and underflood how Age might
be benefited by Youth.
T h e famous Monk Roger Bacon, whom I have
cited before, in his Treatife of the Cure of old
Age, has a large Chapter upon this Subject ;
though, as he wrote to a Pope, and in an Age
no ways favourable to him or his Difcoveries, he
thought proper to conceal what he admits to be
the moft Efficacious Medicine, it was in his Power
to prefcribe, under fuch dark and obfcure Terms,
that few I believe have reached his true Mean­
ing. It may perhaps, be fufpe&ed that I have
deceived myfelf, and that having this Notion in
my Head, I have found in Bacon's1 Works, Things
that were never there; for which Reafon, as well
as becaufe I can offer nothing more curious, or
more pertinent of my own, I will cite as much of
his Book, as relates to this Subject, and leave it to
my Reader to decide how far I do, or do not, do
him Juftice by my Comment.
“ I have read many Volumes of the Wife, I
“ find few Things in Phyfic which reftore the
“ natural Heat, weakned by Diffolution of the in-
“ nate Moifture, or increafe of a foreign One.
1R. Bacon. De Prolorgatione Vitae, c. xii.
Digitized by Original from
INTERNET ARCHIVE THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
[ j8 3
ct But certain, wife Men have tacitly made men-
“ tion of fome Medicines, which is likened to
“ that which goes out of the Mine of the noble
tc Animal, they affirm, that in it there is a Force
tC and Virtue, which reftores and encreafes the
“ natural Heat. As to its Difpofition, they fay,
“ its like Youth itfelf, and contains an equal and
“ temperate Complexion; and the Signs of a
“ temperate Complexion in Men, are, when their
“ Colour is made up of White and Red, when
“ the Hair is yellow inclining to Rednefs and
“ Curling. According to Flirty, when the Flefh
“ is moderate, both in Quality and Quantity;
“ when a Man’s Dreams are delightful; his Coun-
“ tenance chearful and pleafant, and when in his
“ Appetite of Eating and Drinking he is mode-
“ rate. This Medicine indeed, is like to fuch a
“ Complexion ; for its of a moderate heat, its
“ Fume is temperate and fwect, and grateful to
“ the Smell; when it departs from this Tern-
“ perature, it departs fo fir from its Virtue and
“ Goodnels. This Medicine doth therefore tem-
“ perately heat, becaufe it is temperately hot; it
“ therefore heals, becaufe it is whole. When it
u is Sick, it makes a Man Sick. When it is
“ Diftempered, it breeds Diftempers, and chan-
“ geth the Body to its own Difpofition, becaufe
“ of the fimilirude it hath with the Body.
<
c For
t
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
[ 5
9]
c< For the Infirmity of a brute Animal, rarely
C
{ pafleth into Man, but into another Animal of
<
c the fame Kind. But the Infirmity of a Man,
“ pafTeth into Man, and fo doth Health, becaufe
“ oflikenefs. Know moft Gracious Prince! that
“ in this, there is a great Secret. Fcr Galen faith,
“ that whatever is diffclvecl from any Thing, it
“ muft of neceffity be aftimilated to that Thing,
“ as is manifeft in Difeafes palling from one to
<
c another; fuch as Weaknefs of the Eyes, and
“ Peftilential Difeafes. This Thing hath an ad-
“ mirable Property, for it doth not only render
“ human Bodies fafe from Corruption, but it
1
1 defends alfo the Bodies of Plants from Putre-
“ fafiion. This Thing is feldom found, and
6
6 although fometimes it be found, yet it cannot
“ commodioufly be had of all Men. And inflead
ct of it, the Wife do ufe that Medicine which is
“ in the Bowels of the Earth, complete and pre-
<
e pared, and that which fwims in the Sea, and
‘4 that which is the fquare Stone of the noble Ani-
“ mal; fo that every Part may be free from die
“ Infection of another. But if that Stone cannot
“ be acquired, let other Elements feperated, df-
tl vided, and purified be made ufe of.
“ Now when this Thing is like to Youth that
4
6 is of temperate Complexion, it hath good Ope-
“ rations; if its Temperature be better, it pro-
“ duceth better Effe&s; fometimes it is even in
PI 2 “ the
Digitized by • Original from
INTERNET ARCHIVE THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
[ So I
“ the higheft Degree of its Perfection, and then
“ it operates bell, and then there is that Property
“ whereof we have fpoken of before. This differs
“ from other Medicines and Nutriments, which
“ Ileat and Moiften after a certain temperate
<
c Manner, and are good for old Men. For other
“ Medicines principally Heat and Moiften the
“ Body *
, and Secondairly, they ftrengthen the
“ native Heat ; but this doth principally ftrength-
cc en the native Heat, and after that, refrefhes the
t£ Body by moiftning and heating it. For it re-
“ duces this heat in old Men, who have it but
“ weakly and deficient, to a certain ftronger and
“ more vehement Power. If a Plaifter be made
“ hereof, and applied to the Stomach, it will help
“ very much, for it will refrefli the Stomach
“ itfelf, and excite an Appetite*, it will very highly
“ recreate an old Man, and change him to a kind
“ of Youth, and will make Complexions by what
ct means foever depraved or corrupted better.
tc M a n y wife Men have fpoken but little of
“ this Thing, they have indeed laid down another
tc Thing like it, as Galen in his fifth Book of
tc fimple Medicines, and Johannes Damafcenus,
“ in his Aphorifms. But it is to be obferved,
te that Venus doth weaken and demolifii the Power
“ and Virtue of this Thing; and it is very likely
ci that the Son of the Prince, in his fecond Canon
“ of Simple Medicines, fpoke of the Thing,
“ where
Digitized by 0r|ginBlfrom
INTERNET ARCHIVE THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
t *1 1
4t where he faith, that there is a certain Medicine
“ concealed by wife Men, lead the incontinent
“ fliould offend their Creator. There is fuch a
“ Heat in this Thing, as in young Men of a
“ found Complexion, and if I durd declare the
“ Properties of this Heat, this mod hidden Se-
tc cret fhould prefently be revealed. For this
“ Heat doth help the Palfical, it redores and
“ preferves the wraded Strength of the Native
c
C Heat, cauleth it to flouridi in all the Members,
“ and gently revives the Aged.” Thefe are pre-
cifely the Words of Fryar Bacon; the Thing now
to be conddered is, whether wre have rightly in­
terpreted them, or whether they are capable of
any juder, and more natural Senfe, which after a
few Reflections on the Motives which have de­
termined us, fhall be left to the Reader’s Judg­
ment.
Some have entertained an Opinion, that this
myderious Preparation was no other than the
Quinteflence of human Blood *
, but whoever con-
fiders the Defcription of it in all its Parts, will
eafily difeern, that it can be no fuch Thing, fince
the Odour or Scent of it is recommended on Ac­
count of its grateful Sweetnefs; befides, Quinteflen-
ces are taken inwardly, w’hereas, he direfls the Me­
dicine to be applied as a Plaider to the Stomach,
and indeed the other Marks agree with fuch a
Quinteflence as ill as this. Others have believed,
that
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
[ 61 ]
that our Author intended here to deferibe a kind
of precious Stone, but fucli muft be abfolutely un­
acquainted with his manner of Writing •
, for he is
no affefter of Mifteries, in order to ftrike his
Reader with Amazement, or to raife his own Re­
putation, both of thefe Things he juftly contemn­
ed. His Obfcurity proceeds from this, that at
the Time he wrote, he was in Priion for writing
againft the Philofophy that was then current, and
he addrefs’d this Book to Pope Nicholas IV. his
Profecutor, in order to obtain his Pardon •, but be­
ing doubtful how far it would operate, he was
very cautious in Writing, that he might not
afford room for a fecond Accufation, of laying
Things lecret in their Nature open to vulgar Ca­
pacities. Now, if be was here deferibing a pre­
cious Stone, why fhould he talk fo darkly ? This
certainly did not require fo much Pains to be ta­
ken to hide it, and fo far would fuch a dark Ac­
count have been from ferving his Purpofe, that
it would have been viffbly contrary to his Defign,
by leaving Room for extraordinary Conjectures,
• _
where, without the leaft Danger he might have
fpoken out. Whereas, if our Interpretation be
admitted, there was the utmoft Reafon for all
this Caution; his Apology is perfectly reafonable,
and all the Doubtings and Hefiitations that are
thrown in, appear fo many modeft Excufes, very
artfully and very properly placed.
L et
Digitized by Original from
INTERNET ARCHIVE THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
[ 6 3 ]
L e t us confider this Defcription of Bacon's,
and compare it with the Picture drawn by the
Hand of a Greater, and ftill more knowing Man,
and we fhall be apt to think that we hear Solomon
defcribing the lovely Shunamite. Look upon Bacon's
Words again, and imagine the thin Veil to be
removed; you will then fee the pcrfeft Figure of
this Damfel that was very Fair *
, you will difqern
the Rofe of Sharon, and the Lilly of Domafcus ;
her Hair like Purple, in curling Locks; her two
young Roes that are Twins, feeding among Lillies;
her Head filled with the Dew, and her Locks with
the Drops of the N ight; her Countenance fair as
the Moon, clear as the Sun ; her Fruit fweet to
the Tafte, as fhe fets under the Shadow with great
Delight; her Spikenard and chief Spices, while
the South Wind blows upon her Garden, that the
Spices thereof may blow; her Well of living Wa­
ters, and Streams of Lebanon; and here the faireft
among Women is wounded by the Watchmen,
and then her Beloved departs.
T h i s Commentary lufficiently explains the
Text, but to put it beyond Doubt, and to apply
all this effedtually to my Subject, I fhall touch
gently on two or three remarkable Paflages. In the
firfl Place, our Author fays, that this Medicine is
liken’d to that which goes out of the Mine of the
noble Animal, and what can this Mine be, but
Woman, in whom, as in a Mine, the noble Ani­
mal
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
[ 6 4 \
mal is formed. Then again, our Author fays,
the Infirmity of a brute Animal rarely paflfes into
Man, but into another Animal of the fame Kind •,
but the Infirmity of a Man, paflfes into Man, and
fo does Health becaufe of Likenefs. Here he lays
open a great Secret in Philofophy, viz. That
there is a Sympathy in Health, as well as Con­
tagion in Difeafe, and that as a Morbid Breath
infects, fo a wholefome one may exhilerate. Ta­
ken in this Senfe, nothing can be eafier, plainer,
or more rational, nor is there any other Senfe,
the Words litterally taken, can bear. The laft
Paflage I (hall remark is, when he obferves, that
Venus weakens and diminifhes the Power and Vir­
tue of this Remedy. How exa&ly does this agree
with the pertinent Reflexion of the Author of the
Book of Kings, when repeating the Ufes David
made of Abijhag *
, he fays, with a particular Em-
phafis, but the King knew her not ? A young Vir­
gin taken in this Manner, recalls Heat and Life
into an old Man ; but if forgetting that this is a
temporary and artificial Vigour, he ufes it as if it
were a natural One ; he may indeed give Life to
another, but it will beat the Expence of his own.
When thefe Exploits are related to us as Marks of
old Men’s Vigour, we Ihould fet them down as
Marks of their Folly too; for as Solomon fays, that
there is a Time to be born> and a dime to die j
fo
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTIT
[ «5 ]
fo Nature and true Philofophy teaches, that there
is a Time to beget, and a Time to abftain from be­
getting.
I will take the Liberty alfo of drawing fome
Advantage even from the lecond Objection, fince,
with refpedt to Eaftern Princes, though it be true
that moft of them die early, yet is it no lefs true,
that where they do not die violent Deaths, they
frequently live to a great Age ; as for Infiance,
Shah Abbas, and Anrer.gxebe. Now if we confider
the immenfe Fatigues of thefe Monarchs, the
many Battles they fought; the tedious Marches
they made; the variety of Dangers they run
through, and the vafl Expence of Spirits that a
Life of fuch continued Adlion, fuch intenfe
Thought mull occafion; it will not be eafy to find
in a Country, where the Art of Phyfic is far from
being fo perfect, as it is even in Europe: I fay it
will be hard to find in fuch Places, any Medicine
capable of producing fo extraordinary Effedl, if
we exclude this of which I am fpeaking. For
though I am very doubtful, and therefore lay no
Strefs on the Wholefomenefs of the Breath of
W omen; yet, in the Seraglios of fuch Princes,
there are always fo many Virgins, and thefe of
fuch near accefs to the Perfon of the Prince, that
I cannot but apprehend his Vigour and Health, to
be greatly fupported by thefe odoriferous Streams
I of
Digitized by
ERNET ARCHIVE
[ ]
of falutary Air. I cannot help adding what feems
to be dill a dronger Argument in Favour of
my Suppofition, and that is, that the Arab Prin­
ces fcattered through the Dominions of the Grand
Signior, who are lefs expofed to foreign Wars,
or domedic Intrigues, than other oriental Princes,
actually live beyond the ordinary Age ofMan, and
die at lad as every Man ought to die, becaufe their
Blood can run no longer. At lead, I have a right
to make ufe of a Circumdance fo probable as this
is, in iupport of my Opinion, when it is thought
reafonable to take a Faft, which has only a fuper-.
ficial refemblance to the Cafe I have dated, as a
fufficient ground for an Objeftion againd the
Pofition I am endeavouring to make good; Pro­
bability is certainly nearer a-kirrto Evidence, than
a bare Similitude of Circumfiances, which vanifhes
upon a drift Examination.
A f t e r thefe Excurfions, let us return to a
more drift Examination of our Subjeft: I have
already fhewn how the Breath of Virgins may
operate upon old Men, when mix’d with the com­
mon Air, and fo refpired by them. But let us
confider a little, whether thefe numerous and
fubtile Effluvia may not operate fome other Way
than this. All Phyficians agree, fince the Doftrine
of the Circulation of the Blood has been edablifh-
ed, as well as made known to the World, by the
Skill
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
[ <7 ] . : t.
Skill and Learning of that incomparable Eiv*lijh-
man Doctor Harvey m; that a great Part of our
Aliments, after entering the Blood, are thrown
out from thence in fo imperceptible a Manner,
that this kind of Evacuation, is very properly ftilcd
infenfible Perfpiration. This was firlt carefully
examined by Sanftorius> who found that it was far
more confiderable alone, than all the other ani­
mal Secretions taken together n. If this be fo, and
that it is fo, no Man in his Senfes now doubts,
then it follows, that there muft be prodigious
Quantities of the Matter of this infenfible Per­
fpiration, mixed in the Air, furrounding the per-
fpiring Bodies, and confequently this Air, muft be
impregnated ftrongly with the Qualities inherent
to that Matter.
I f we pufh this Enquiry ftill further, and la­
bour to make ourfelves acquainted with the Na­
ture of the Particles that are thus thrown off, a
I 2 little
mOur Author alludes here to the remarkable Felicity of
Dodlor Harvey, who firft found out, and then fully demon-
ftrated the Dodtrine of the Circulation of the Blood, which
was at firft as moft new Inventions are, oppofed with great
Heat and Spleen ; but came at laft to be as generally received
and admired, as it deferves. Dodtor Harvey died in 16^7,
thirty Years after he firft publilhed his Difcovery ; in his Ex-
ercitatio Anatomica de motu cordis. Printed at Francfort,
in 1627.
nSee his famous Treatife de Medicina Statica, which the
Englifh Reader may confult in his own Language, Tranflated
by the judicious and indefatigable Dr. Quincy.
Digitized by Original from
INTERNET ARCHIVE THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
t 68 ]
little Attention will make that Matter plain. For
fince infcnfible Perfpiration is owing to the Circu­
lation of the Blood, it necefiarily follows, that
the Particles thrown off by the Blood, muff par­
ticipate of the Nature of that Fluid from which
they are thrown off. Now we know the Blood of
young People to be foft, oily, and balfamic, as
well as we can know any Thing, becaule this ap­
pears to us from its Effedts, which are a brlfk and
lively Difpofition •, perfect Health, and quick
Growth, to all which, a Blood thus conftituted,
is abfolutely neceflary. Upon thefe Principles, it
is plain, that the Matter perfpired by young
People in fuch Circumftances, as I have fuppofed
the Pupils of Hennippus to be, muff have all the
Qualities of their Blood, and be a foft, fmooth,
flippery, balfamic Steam, continually flowing from
their Bodies, and as they are conftantly drawing
in the Circumambient Air, and continually throw­
ing off this Matter, they muft, in the compafs of
a few Hours, abfolutely change the whole Mafs of
Air, in a Room where they are taught by their
Preceptor, who in that Cafe, will receive into
himlelf a large Proportion of this perfpirable
Matter, in the fame Manner that it is thrown off
by them.
T here are many People, I know, who will
be 3pt to treat this Part pf my Difcourfe as Whim-
fical
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
Original front
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
t h ]
fical and Chimerical, and for this very Reafon, I
have not infilled upon it fo largely as I might have
done, or in fuch llrong and dired Terms. I might
have entered nicely into the Computations that
have been made of the Quantity of Matter thrown
off in this Way, and from thence I might have
deduced many Curious, and to competent Judges,
convincing Proofsj but I afted not this critical kind
of Writing, which might polfibly deprive me of
a great Number of Readers, and fecure the Alfent
only of thofe who are lead likely to carry this
Dodrine into Pradice. But let me have leave to
obfcrve, that what I have laid down, is an indis­
putable Fad, and not among the Number of thofe
about which much has been written, and nothing
fettled. Sanflorius who fird treated this Matter ju-
dicioufly, and pradically, had the Honour to per-
fed his Difcovery, and to carry.the Matter as far
as it could go, and this in the bed Method, I
mean that of Experiments; for he had a Chair
fixed on a Ballance, and in fuch a Manner accom­
modated with Springs, as to difcover the flighted
Alteration in his Weight. By the Ufe of this
Chair, and by condant Obfervation of what he
Eat, Drank, Perfpired, and Evacuated every
other Way ; he came at the certain Knowlege of
what he has delivered, and therefore we may with
the utmod Confidence, believe, that at lead, one
half of what we eat or drink, after palling through
the
Digitized by Original from
INTERNET ARCHIVE . THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
[ 7° ]
the Blood, is thrown off in the way I have defcri*
bed °.
A very irgenious Frenchman, to whom the
World is indebted, for as profitable, and at the
fame time as pleafant a Work, as any publifiled of
late Years, has endeavoured to illuftrate this Doc­
trine by a very well contrived Fiftion, which I will
repeat to the Reader, becaufe nothing can ferve
my Purpofe better, as I am perfuaded nothing can
entertain him more p. “ The Day after our Ar-
“ rival at London, feveral Tradefmen came to our
“ Lodgings, in order to fell us the Commodities
“ and Curiofities of their Country. Every one
“ of the Company fixed readily his Attention on
“ what pleafed him mod. Some bought Gloves,
“ others Ribbans, and others Silk Stockings; the
“ Merchandize which fell to my Share, was feve-
“ ral Perfpe&ive Glafies and Microfcopes. He
“ who fold them, was an excellent Mathemati-
“ cian, a Man of great Capacity, and could fpeak
“ French tollerable well. I kept him to Dinner,
“ and
°We muft confider, in reafoning upon this Subject that
Santtorius wrote in Italy, where the Perfpiration may be
reafonably fuppofed much greater than in Northern Countries,
which our Author was aware of, and has made a proper
Deduction.
p Melanges d’Hiftoire et de Litterature par M. de Vigneul-
Marville. Tom. ii. p. 461. It may not be amifs to obferve,
that this is not the true Name of the Author of that curious
Book, but one, under which he chofe to hide it, on Account
of fome freeCenfures contained in that diverting Mifcellany.
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITL
[ 7« 1
c< and as he was mighty well pleafed with the En-
ce tertainment, he told me after he rofe from
<
e Table, that he had a great Curiofity to (hew
<
c me. He then took out of a Shagreen Box, an
cc Inftrument in a Tortoilhell Cafe, which proved
<
c to be a mofl excellent Microfcope. I may well
<
e bellow this Epithet upon it, fince it was fo excel-
tc lent, as not only todilcoveran infinity of Bodies
“ impercitible to the naked Eye, but even the
tc Atoms of Epicurus, the iubtile Matter of Defcar-
“ les, the Vapours of the Earth, thofe which
c< flow from our own Bodies, and fuch as derive
to us here the Influence of the Stars.
“ T he firlt Experiment I made, was looking
cc on the Perfon from whom I reciev’d it, at the
“ Diftance of four or five Paces, which gave me
cc an Opportunity of difcerning an infinite Num-
1
C ber of little Worms, that were feeding molt
cc voracioufly upon his Cloaths, by which I per-
<
c ceived, that contrary to the common Opinion,
“ it is not we who wear out our Cloaths, but they
<
c are fairly eaten off our Backs, by thefe invifible
<
c Infefls •
, I changed my Situation, and confider-
<
e ing my Mathematician in another light, he
tc appeared to me inveloped in a dark Cloud. He
“ told me, that this Appearance was owing to
ec his Perfpiring llrongly after Dinner, and that
“ this ought to convince me of the Truth of
“ what
u i y i u t u u j
INTERNET ARCHIVE
Digitized by
t 7» 3
“ what Sanftcrius had delivered in refpedt to the
“ Proportions, between this and other Secretions.
“ W e next went into the Kitchen, where there
“ was a large piece of Beef roafting for the Ser-
“ vants, and I had the Pleafureof feeing with the
<
c fame Microfcope, how the fire feperates all the
“ Parts of the Wood, upon which it atfts and
“ darts them by the Violence of its Motion againft
“ the Beef that turns before it, wounding it as it
“ were witii an infinite Number of Shafts, and fb
“ tearing it to Pieces, fome of which are convert-
“ ed into Juice, and others into a delicate kind
“ of Smoke or Vapour, which filled the Kitchen,
“ and was very fenfibly diftinguifhed by our
“ Noftrils.
“ G oing out of the Houfe, we faw four young
“ Men playing at Ball. I, at firft Sight, felt a
“ ftrong Inclination in Favour of one, and as
“ ftrong an Averfion againft another, whence I
“ began earneftly to wilh that this might win, and
“ that might lofe. I examined both with the Mi-
“ crofcope, and thereby eafily diftinguifhed the
“ Source of thefe Pafiions. As the Men were
“ extreamly heated with their Exercife, they pcr-
“ fpired ftrongly, fothat clouds of the Matter flow-
“ ing from them, reached us. My Glafs lhewed
“ me diftindtly, that the Matter perfpiredby him
“ for whom I had an Inclination, was exa&ly
“ fimilar to what was perfpired by m yfelfwhere­
as,
Digitized by • Original from
/INTERNET ARCHIVE THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
[ 7 3 ]
C
c as, the Matter flowing from the other Perfon,
£
< was ablolutely unlike to mine in ail refpedts, and
ci fo jagged and bearded, that it feemed to wound
“ and pierce me like lb many Arrows. Hence I
“ difcerned, that the true Caufe of our fudden In-
“ clinations and Averfions, confilfs in the Figures
“ of the Matter perfpiring from us, and from
“ others, and in the Union or Contrariety of thefe
“ infenflble Vapours.
“ W e went out of the City, and at fome
<
e Miles diftance, we faw fome Gentlemen di-
“ verting themfelves in Courflng a H are; as
“ the poor Creature paflfed almoft clofe by us, I
<
c had juft Time to catch a Glance of her with
5
< my Glafs. She appeared to me like a Ball of
ee Fire, moving with prodigious Rapidity, and
“ leaving a mighty Smoke behind her. This was
“ the Matter perfpired by the Animal, and I faw
“ that the Dogs followed exactly the Track of
<
c that Smoke, and were never at all at a Lois,
i( except when the Wind diftlpated the Cloud
<
£ that iflued from the flying Hare.”
I n this Ihort Account, our Author very in-
genioufly rallies fuch as expert to have occular
Demonftration of Things, that do not admit ot
any fuch Evidence. His Microfcope is nothing
more than an Invention to cenfure their Folly,
and to expofe the Madnefs of having that verified
to the Senfes, which can only be apprehended by
K Reafon 3
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
[ 74 ]
Reafon ■
, yet this kind of Weaknefs {till prevails
in the World, and I dare fay, there is many a
Reader who would laugh at the Story of the
Hare, as an abfolute Fidtion, and afterwards blufii
to fee the fame Thing gravely laid down by fo
judicious, fo intelligent aPerfon, as the great Boer-
haave There feems to be nothing more unin­
telligible or abfurd, than to afifert that there are
Things which are continually lofing part of their
Weight, and yet never grow dilcernibly lighter;
and yet this we fee in the Cafe of the Antimo-
nial Cup, which when five hundred Times made
Ufe of, and after bellowing an Emetic Quality
on five hundred Glafies of Wine, remains juft as
heavy as it was at firft; We may fay the lame
Thing of the Odoriferous Effluvia of Ambergreale,
and the lefs agreeable Steam of Aflafetida. None
of thefe Things can be brought under the Cogni­
zance of all our Senfes, it is fufficient to convince
our
’ See his Chymiftry, vol. i. p. 151. wherein his Words are
thus tranflated. The moft fubtile Part of the juices of Ani­
mals is a fine Spirit, which is continually exhaling, wherein
the proper Character of the Animal feems to refide, and where­
by it is diilinguifhed from all others. This we may infer from
Hounds, which through a long Tratt of Ground, and a
Multitude of crofs Treads, will diltinguifh a particular Animal
out of a whole Flock ; the Effluvia of whofe Footffeps it had
lately feented, or will find out their Mailer through an hun­
dred crofs Ways, in the Middle of a confufed Concourfe of
People. By this we may infer, how thin and fubtile, yet how
different from all other Kinds of Bodies thefe Effluvia mull
be. They feem of an oily Origin, or to refide in a fubtile
Vehicle of an oily Kind, as may appear both from the Analogy
D
ie z
: ®f Things and other Properties.
INTERNET ARCHIVE THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
Rofe at a certain Diftance ; my Reafon will tell
me, that I am within the Atmofphere of that
Flower, becaufe it is impofflble that I fflould dif-
cern its Odour by the Smell, if its Effluvia did
not ftrike the proper Organ of that Senfe in me.
Hence, with a little Reflection, I can eafily form
a Notion of this Flower, perfpiring an infinite
Number of Odoriferous Particles, which for a
certain Diflance, fo much overcome all the other
different Sorts of Matter floating in the Air, as to
become fo many Objects of my Senfe of fmellingr.
B u t now, if we take this the other Way, and
confider a Body continually perfpiring fuch a Mat­
ter as is infenfible to us, that is, Particles fo fubtile
as to efcape the Cognizance of all our Organs of
Senfation, we muft be extreamly dull of Appre-
henfion, if we do not conceive, that this perfpir­
ing Body muft have its Atmofphere, as well as
the Rofe, or any other fragrant Flower. It is,
therefore, I think, a Point fet paft all Difpute,
that if a Number of Virgins are in the Company
of an old Man, he muft derive from them into
himfelf a great Quantity of that fubtile Matter,
the Qualities of which have been before deferibed.
1See a Multitude of thefe Inftances collected, and properly
applied in Mr. Boyle’s curious Treatife upon Gems.
K 21 and
[ 76 1
and efpecially if we confider, that as thefe Effluvia
elcape through the Pores, the Pores muft confe-
quently be continually open, and if fo, they muft
imbibe from without, as well as give Pallage to
what comes trom within.
I doubt this will appear a new Paradox to
many of my Readers, and methinks I fee fome of
them ready to throw my Treatife out of their
Hands, and crying with an Air of Self-fufficiency
and Difdain •
, this poor Man is mad himfelf, and
would fain make us fo. But Patience a little, give
me leave but to propofe a few familiar Queftions,
and I will defy you to difbelieve what I had laid
down. Is there any Thing more common, than
to find a Stranguary enfue upon the Application of
a Blifter, and yet how can this happen, if the
Particles of the Cantharides did not enter through
the Pores, and thereby create a diverfion of that Salt
watry Fluid, which is ufually fecreted by the Kid­
neys, and compofes what we call Urine. On the o-
ther Hand, it is a thing certain, that Opium ufed in
a Plaifter, will procure Sleep, which it could not
pofflbly do, if in like manner it did not find a Paf-
fage through the Pores into the Blood: I might like-
wile take Notice of an Effeft that frequently, if not
conftantly, refults from the Application of a Catap-
lafm of Camomile to the Stomach, the bitter tafte
of which Herb, in the Space of two Hours, is dil-
cerned on the Palate. I will mention one Inftance
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
[ 77 ]
m
more, which is at once fo ftror.g, and lb common,
as to put the matter quite out of Difputej I mean
the ordinary Method of railing Salivations by Unc­
tion ; for whoever confiders this attentively, muft
be fenfible, that the Body may be very flrongly
affecei by Things that enter only through the
Pores s*
*
I cannot help taking Notice of a very fingular
PafTage in a French Hiilorian, whofe Character is
perfectly well eftablilhed, and which Paflage in
my Apprehenfion, may contribute not a little to
render all that I have afferted equally Credible and
Clear. This Author tells us% that in the Year
1346, there broke out of the Earth in Cathay,
which is that part of Great Tartary, bordering upon
China, a certain Vapour, fo prodigioufly (linking,
as to deftroy all living Creatures. This, like a
lubterraneous Fire, after it once efcaped, rolled
over two hundred Leagues of Country, devour­
ing even the very Trees and Stones, and affedled
the Air in a wonderful Manner. From Cathay,
it palled through Afia and Greece, from thence it
crofted over into Africa, and after ravaging that
Country, it entered Europe in 134S, making fuch
Havock
s The Montpelier way of Salivating is ftill a ftronger Proof
of this, fince it argues, that this Method of railing it, is fafer,
more equal and better adapted to the Ends it is to anfwer,
than that of taking Things by the Mouth.
*Abrege Chronologique de l’Hiftoire, de France par le Sieur
de Mezeray, Tom. iii. p. 32.
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITl|TE
[ 7 « J
Havock in France, that not fo much as a City,
Village, or Tingle Houle efcaped, and from thence
it patted into other Countries, fo as to reach even
the utmoft Extremities of the North the Venom,
lays my Author, was fo Contagious, as to infed
even by the Sight. It was remarked, that it con­
tinued exadly five Months in every Country
through which it palled. In thofe Places where
it was moll favourable, it left only a third of the
Inhabitants, in molt about a fifteenth, in fome not
above a twentieth Part. Can one concieve that
an Exhalation fhould pafs quite round the Globe,
and produce fuch terrible Effects wherever it came,
and fhall we believe that Exhalations that are con­
tinually furrounding us, fhall have no Effed at all ?
Or ought we to apprehend, that if fuch dreadful
Feats can be wrought by {linking and noxious Ex­
halations, there is nothing nutritive or Salutary to
be performed by thofe of an oppofite kind ? I muff
confcfs, that I fee no ground for fuch a belief.
T h e r e is undoubtedly, as the Learned Bacon
lays it down, a healthy Sympathy, as well as a mor­
bid Infedionu; and as in Spightof all the Care and
Caution we can take, we find it extreamly hard
to
"See p. 64. in the Quotation from Bacon. If this Argu­
ment be not allowed, it will be hard to aflign any Rational
Caufe, why one Place Ihould be more Healthy than another ;
and to underhand this Dottrine perfectly, the Reader ought to
CQnfult Mr. Boyle’s Treatife of the Wholefomenefs and Un*
wholefomnefs of the Air,
[ 7
9
]
to guard againft, and to ward off the latter; fo
by a Parity of Reafon, it fhould feem, that of all
the Methods contributing to Health, the former
ought to prove the moft efficacious: That is to
fay, we think there is no way hitherto laid down
for preferving the Vigour of the Body, and there­
by fecuring fuch a Supply of animal Spirit^, as
may fupport the Dominion of the Soul, in its full
extent and activity, fo feafible as this; which is
fuggefled to be the Source of the Longevity, and
Healthfulnefs of Hermippus. For if infenfible Per-
fpiration be made through the Pores, fo that there
is a continual Steam tranfpiring from every Body,
then it follows, that where an old Man is con-
ftantly attended by many young Women, his
Body mud be furrounded with an infinite Quan­
tity of the perfpirable Matter flowing from them ;
and if on the other Hand, he not only perfpircs
through the Pores, but alfo receives by them as
has been already demonftrated, the fineft and moft
Spirituous Particles of other Bodies into his own,
then it is very evident, that fuch an old Man mud
be, as I obferved before, in fuch a Situation, as
will enable him to draw the greateft poffible Bene­
fit from this moft comfortable Medicine.
T he more ftri&ly we confider the Stru&ure of
the human Body, and the certain Caufes of Health
and Sicknefs, the more Reafon we (hall find to be
fatisfied with, and to acquiefce in the Syftem we
Digitized by
| INTERNET ARCHIVE
' Origirval from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
have
[ 8° ]
have laid down. Reafon and Experience have
convinced us, rhat the Body is a Pneumatico-hy-
draulic Machi , compofed of Fluids and Solids,
and that a good Conftitution, or healthy Difpo-
fition arifes from the proper Motion of the one,
and a due Circulation of the other. It is alfo, no
lefs certain, that this Motion, and this Circulation
depend reciprocally on each other. For as the Cir­
culation is obftru&ed, lefiened, and in lbme meafure
Hopped from the want of a proper Motion of the
Solids, occafioned by their Lofs of the true Tone
and Texture which they ought to have •,fo this very
Lofs on the other Hand, ariles from their not re­
ceiving a timely and fuitable Supply of Nutrition
from the circulating Juices"’. Hence that drynels,
fliffnefs, and rigidity of the Fibres, which pro­
perly caufes the Difeafe, we call old Age, to pre­
vent which, in a natural, rational, and phyfical
Way, the only proper Method is, to provide a
conftant, equal, and effectual Supply of fmooth
Baliamic and Lubricating Particles from the cir­
culating Fluids. If this could once be done, it
is, I think, very apparent, that old Age could no
more attack the human Body, than any other Dil-
eafe, againft which, proper Precautions may be
taken. But, as it is not to be expeifted that hu­
man Wifdom Ihould be able to perfect fuch a Me­
thod,
wBoerhaav. Inftit. Medic. § 1053, 1054.
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
[ 8 i ]
thod, all that we can reafonably hope for, is, to
arrive at fome Proficiency therein ; fo that though
we are not able to prevent old Age, we may have
it at leaft in our Power to retard it. It is in a
Manner incredible, that by Art, a Man fliould be
able to reach two or three Hundred ; but that he
ffiould live and enjoy Life to upwards of an Hun­
dred 5 the wifcft of the Antients believed, and the
Methods they prefcribed and prabtifed for this
Purpofe, are all founded upon my Principals, as
appears from their ufe of Fridtions, Baths, and
Ointments, all of which had been idle and im­
proper, it they had not conceived i: poflible to
charge the Fluids, by means of them, with fuch
Particles as were fit to repair the LofTes of the
Solids x.
HERM IPPUS undoubtedly made ufe of a far
more rational, as well as efficacious Medicine. For
we have proved by all the Methods, that the
Nature of our Argument will allow the Particles
refpired and perfpired by young Pcrions in full
Health, to be the frnootheft, fofteft, and moft
Nutritive that can be conceived. On the other
Hand, the Method he took in applying thefe, not
only by receiving them in the Air every Time
L he
—
x Inftead of citing Phyficians, I lha!! refer the Re ' to
Plutarch’s learned Treatife on Health and long Life, where, in
a narrow Compafs, he will fee the Senfe of the befi Writers in
Antiquity on this Subject.
Digitized by Original from
INTERNET ARCHIVE THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
[ 8a 3
he drew Breath, but drawing them alfo in through!
all the Pores of his Body, by that Sort of animal
Action, which is in in a manner Spontaneous, muft
have encreafed their Effects, and taking this alto­
gether, one cannot help confidering him as a Perfon
in a conftant warm Bath, of the moft fpirituous and
unCtuous Humours, which were continually per­
vading him, at the fame Time, that by the Va­
pours of the young Peoples Breaths, he drank not
io much Air as Life. But if we will add one
Circumftance further, and that not at all forced
and improbable, viz. That he caufed fome of thefe
young People to lie with him, as David did
ylbijloag ; we fliall then carry the Medicine to its
higheft Pitch, and (hall eafily apprehend, that du­
ring that Time of free and copious Perfpiration,
he muft have received fuch a large fupply of Nu­
tritive Spirits, as effectually refreshed his Nature,
and reftored in a great meafure that wafte which is
occafioned by performing the ordinary Functions
of Life r.
W e may add the laft Degree of Force to this
Manner of Reafoning, if we may be permitted to
argue from Contraries. What is more common
than
y The Opinions of many learned Phyficians might have been
cited in fupport of this Dodtrine, if vve had not been afraid of
tiring the Reader too much ; but if he is extreamly Inquifi-
tive, he may confult the following Writers. Chriftian. Forman,
de Fafcinat. Magic, p. 1014. Borellus Cent. iii. Obfervat.
28 Lan. de motu Tranfpirat. lib, ii, cap. ii. prop. iv. p.
56.
Digitized Dy Original from
INTERNET ARCHIVE THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITljrE
[ 83 ]
than to fee a Woman advanced in Years, grow
not only brilk and lively, but ftrong and healthy,
by marrying a young Hufband. She drinks his
Breath, exhales his Spirits, extrafts his Moifture,
and thereby invigorates herfelf, while the poor
Man fuffers from the impure Contagion of her
Breath and Vapours, and from the Malignity of
this ill-chofen Union, finks very quickly into ap­
parent Weaknefs, and falls at laft into what the
common People call a Galloping Confumption.
Strange! that the Death of a young Man fhould
refult from his Marriage with an old Woman, and
that the taking of a young Wife Ihould repair the
Wafte, and prolong the Life of an old Man z.
Yet, fo it is, and upon this Subjcdt I will venture
to fet down a remarkable Inftance from the W rit­
ings of an unexceptionable Witnefs, one, whofe
repute for Veracity is as well eftablifhed, as his
Fame, for Learning in general, and for his par­
ticular Skill in Phyfic.
T h e Perfon I mean is, Peter Lotichius, and the
Example he gives us, this. A Man, upwards of
eighty Years old, married, after the Lois of his
firft Wife, a fecqnd, who was but twenty-five;
when they had been married about a Year, he
L 2 fell
z The Author has very judicioufly omitted any Inftance of
this Kind, probably for two Reafons ; firft, becaufe every
Man’s Memory may fupply him with Examples; and fecor.dly,
to avoid faying too much on a Subject offenfive to the Fair
£ex.
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITU TE
[ 8 4 ]
Fell into a very extraordinary and dangerous Dif-
tempcr; he grew a* laft fo weak and low, that
his Cafe was judged to be defperate. By Degrees,
however, he grew better, and as his Strength en-
creafed, his grey Hair and white Beard fell off
gradually, and his Skin likewife began to peel *
,foon
after, a light, ftrong Hair began to peep through
the Skin of his Head, which in time fell down to
his Shoulders, in ftrong natural Curls. His Beard
came in the fame Manner, and his Face acquired
a beautiful and florid Complexion •
, in a Word, he
became again a found, lufty, and if the Exprcflion
may be allowed, a young Man, which his Wife
was forced to atteft, fince fhe had by him after­
wards fcveral fine Boysa. This is an Inftance
much to my Purpofe, fince it proves the pro­
digious Efficacy of human Breath, and the Matter
perfpired by a juveniel Body. Yet, give me leave
to obilrve, that this extraordinary Effort of Na­
ture might poffibly contribute to fhorten the old
Man’s Life, who without the Enjoyment of this
young Women, might have preferved his Confti-
tution many Years, and have lived in the perfect
Fruition of thofe Pkafures peculiar to the Mind,
and for the Enjoyment of which it feems moft
ational, that Life fhould be prolonged.
T here
a Obfervat. Medic, lib. iv. Obferv. 3.
[ 8? ]
T h e re is fomething of the fame Kind obferve-
able in the well known Hiflory of the famousEnglijh
long liver, Thomas Parre, and thefe particulars are
very curioufiy diftinguifhed by the great Anatomlft
Bartholin, who fet down his Account of him, not
as a curioiity to pleafe Children, but as a fingular
and memorable Fa£l, worthy of the Attention and
Confideration of Men. This Parre, was born at
Winnington, in the County of Salop, in 1483, and
pafted his Youth in very hard Labour, and which
is as remarkable, in Sobriety and Chaftity. At
fourfcore, he married his firft Wife Jane, by
whom he had two Children, neither of which
were long lived, or (hewed any extraordinary
Signs of Strength; the firft died at the Age of a
Month, and the fecond lived but a few Years.
At an 102 he became enamoured of Katherine
Milton, whom he got with Child and did Pen-
nance in the Church for it. Some Months before
he died, the Earl of Arundel brought him up to
London, and prefented him to King Charles I.
but through the change of Air, and in Living, he
died (oon after; though it was believed he might
have furvived many Years, if he had remained in
his own Country, and led the fame Life he was
wont to do b. This Man was over-grown with
Hair,
b Bartholin. Hift. Anatom, cent. v. hift. 28. p. 47. 48.
Some accounts make Parre much older, and place his Death
in 16c 1; I naveconfulied his Monument in Weftminfter-Abby,
and
[ 85 ]
Hair, and during the latter Part of his Life, flept
very much. In the fame Country lived the famous
Countefs of Defmond, whofe Age was unknown to
herfelf, but extreamly well fupported by the Au­
thority of others *
, fmce from Deeds, Settlements,
and other indifputable Teftimonies, it appear’d
clearly, that fhe was upwards of an hundred and
forty, according to the Computation of the great
Lord Baco?iy who knew her perfonally, and re­
marks this Particularity about her, that file thrice
changed her Teeth c. We have it on the Credit
of Alexander Benedictus, that there was a Lady of
his Acquaintance, who at the Age of Fourfcore,
had a complete new Sett of Teeth, and though her
Hair had all fallen off before, yet at the fame
Time fhe cut her Teeth it grew again, of like
Colour and Strength as at firft d. Bartholin, the fa­
mous Anatomift, whom I cited before, furnifhes us
not only with another Example, and informs us, it
was procured by Art, but gives us alfo the Receipt
by which it was done, and which he affures us was
no other than an Extract of black Hellebore, difolv-
ed
I
and there I find he diedon the 15th of November. 1635, Aged
upwards of 152 ; when his Body was opened, his Bowels ap­
peared very Sound, only the Lungs were fomewhat injured,
which was thought to be owing to the Groflnefs of the Town
Air, and that he might have lived much longer, if on his firlt
Complaint he had been let Blood.
c \ erulam. Hilt, vitae et Mortis. Sir Walter Raleigh’s Hif-
tory of the World, lib. I. cap. v. §. 5. d
Donat.
Hilt. Med. mirab. lib. VI. c. 2. p. 300.
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITL TE
[ 87 3
cd in an infufion of Wine and Rofese. If I miftake
not, the illuftrious Boyle hath fomething to the
lame Purpofe about the Quintifience of Balm f.
If we confider thefe extraordinary Relations
attentively, and reflect on the Weight of Evidence,
with which fome of them, and efpecially thofe of
Pane, and the Countefs of Defmond are fupported,
we mull be fatisfied, that the human Body is a Ma­
chine capable of very extraordinary Changes. For
we ought to confider, that if we are once brought to
believe, that a Woman thrice changed her Teeth,
it isasclear a Proof of the poflibility of the Fad, as
if we had twenty other Examples. Now, if there be
a Poflibility of renovating human Nature, why on
the one fide Ihould we not Study it? Or why on the
other, Ihould this kind of Study be treated as a
vain and fanciful Thing ? If the Office of a Phy-
fician be Honourable ; if there be fomething No­
ble and God-like in curing Difeafes, in Hopping
the progrefs of Pain and Mifery, and warding off
the dart of Death for a few Years ; there is cer­
tainly fomething much more excellent in the Art
of renewing the human Body ; fecuring Health
and Vigour, thro* a long courfe of Years ; keep­
ing not only Death, but his younger Brethren
Age and Decripednefs, at a diftance. Let us re­
member
eHift. Anatomic, cent. v
.hift. 28. p. 51. f S
e
e
Lis Treatife on Specific R
e
m
e
d
i
e
s
. As to the M
e
d
i
c
i
n
eits f
e
l
f
it was contrived by Paracelfus.
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
t 88 ]
member upon this occafion, what I have already
cited from the learned Monk Bacon *
, what fays he,
if Arijlotle, Plato, Hippocrates and Galen, were Ig­
norant of this Secret *
, Is that a Proof that we
fhall not attain it ? Were they not Ignorant of
many other Secrets that are now commonly known;
why then fhould we imagine the barrier of Sci­
ence fixed here, rather than any where elfe? Why
fhould we not find out the means of prolonging
Life, as well as a Method for fquaring the Circle?
Is not the former, of as great Confequence to us
as Men ? Or is the latter, a more ufeful Proof of
the ftrength of human Underftanding ? Let us
proceed then ; let us colled and compare (fince
the nature of the thing forbids other Experiments)
fuch Examples as we meet with in authentic Hif-
tories •
, and let us in this, as in other Cafes, endea­
vour to convert Hiftory into Science, by obferving
nicely the particulars in every Relation, and en­
deavour thereby to trace out the manner of Na­
tures working *
, for if this can be once done, we
fhall be foon able to follow her Steps. If Nature at
any time vouchlafes this favour to Men, it follows,
that their Bodies have no incapacity of receiving
i t ; that is to fay, if every Man’s Body was not lb
conftituted, as to exceed by far the ordinary limits
of Life, it could not pcfilbly happen that any
Man’s Life fhould be fo extended.
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
F ather
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
r m
F a t h e r Maffeus, who wrote a celebrated
Hiftory of the Indies, which has been always ef-
teem’d a perfedt Model in point of Veracity, as
well as the elegance of its Compofition, giv^s us
the following Account, after having related the
Death of the Sultan of Cambaya, and the conqueft
of his Kingdom by the Porlugucze. “ They pre-
M fented, fays he, at this time to the General, a
“ Man born amongft the ancient Gangards, who
tc are now called Bengalar, who was 335 Y ars of
<
c Age. There were various Circumftancos which
<
c took from this Account all S.ifpicion ot Fall-
hood. In the firft Place, his Age wascoi tinned
“ by a kind of univerlal Tradition, all tne People
averring that the oldeft Men in thc.r Iniancy
M fpoke of this Man’s Age with Aftondhment 5
“ and this old Man had then living in his own
<
c Houfe, a Son of ninety Years old. In the next
“ Place his Ignorance was fo Great, and he was
“ fo abfolutely void of Learning, that this re-
*c moved all ground of Doubt, for by the ftrength
“ of his Memory he was a kind of living Chroni-
te cle, relating diftindtly, and exadtly, whatever
had happened within the Compafs of his Life*
cc together with all the Circumftances relating to
<
c it. He had often loft and renewed his Teeth*
“ his Hair, both on his Head, and Bear:l, grew
“ infenfibly Grey, and then as infenfibly turned
“ Black again. The firft Age of his Life he
M. ee pa(fed
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
Original from I
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITU
[ 9° 1
“ patted in Idolatry, but for the two laft Centu-
<
e ries of his Life, had been a Mohammedan. The
“ Sultan had allowed him a Penfion for his Sub-
“ fiftance, the continuance of which he begged
“ from the General; the fame Motive remaining,
“ which had firft induced the King of Cambaya
“ to grant him a Subfiftance, that is to fay,
“ his great Age, and the extraordinary Circum-
“ fiances that had attended his Life, thefe pre-
<
c vailed on the General to grant his Requeft
Thus far Majfcus.
B u t , as it may be very eafily conceived, that
fo flrange a Story as this muft have created many
Enquiries, and have either funk in the World, or
in confequence of thofe Enquiries, received abun­
dance of concurrent Teftimonies. I fhall therefore
beg leave to add fome very remarkable Particulars
in relation to this celebrated Long-liver, from the
PortuguezeHiftorian, FerdinandLopezdeCafiegncda,
who was Hiftoriographer Royal. He tells us,
that in the Year 1536, there was a Man prefented
to the Vice-Roy of the Indies, Nwnio de Cugna,
who was near 340 Years old. He remembered,
that he had feen the City in which he dwelt, and
which was then one of the moft Populous in the /«-
dies, a very inconfiderable Place. He had changed
his Hair, and recovered his Teeth four Times, and
when*
* Hiftoriarum Indiarum lib. xi, c. 4.
C 9]
when the Vice-Roy faw him, his Head and Beard
were black, but the Hair weak and thin. He aver­
ted, that in theCourfe of his Life he had feven hun­
dred Wives, fome of which died, and the reft he
had put away. The King of Portugal caufed aftri6t
Enquire to be made into this matter, and an an­
nual Account of the State of the old Man’s Health,
brought him by the returns of the Fleet from India.
This long lived Perfon, was a Native of the King­
dom of Bengala, and died at the Age of 3701
1
.
This Hiftory is in itfelf very curious, founded up­
on good Authority, and therefore tranfcribed from
the Authors I have mentioned, by many curious
and inquifitive Perfons, who were alfo proper
Judges of Cafes of this Nature, and who have
none of them intimated any doubt or fufpicion as
to the matters of Fa£F. I therefore fubmitittothe
Reader’s confideration, whether it be not a mat­
ter worthy of Reflcflion ; that there is a certain
Strength in the human Body, which aftifted by
fome lucky Circumftances, enables it to renovate
its felf fometimes Once, as in the cafe mentioned
by Lotichius, fometimes oftner; as in that of the
Countefs of Defmond, who bred all her Teeth
thrice ; and this Native of Bengala, who changed
his Hair and Teeth four times ; and there is ano-
M 2 ther
h Hift. Lufitam. lib viii. ‘ Bartholin. Hift. Ana­
tom. cent. v. hift. 28. p. 46. Camer. hor. Subfis. cent. II. c.
8. r
p«t*y8. Hakewill’s Apol. p. 168. Original from
INTERNET ARCHIVE THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
[ 9 * 1
ther Circumftance of which I cannot but take no­
tice, as it favours my Doftrine very much *
, that
this Man who lived to an Age much greater than
any, which we have as good Authority, had
fo many Wives, to the Efficacy of whole Breaths,
and the infcnfible Effluvia oi their wholefome
Bodies, I fhould not fcruple to attribute in a great
M^afure, his extraordinary Longevity. Theie I:
fay, are Points which deferve to be confider’d,
fince if fuch a Power there be in the human Con-
ftitution, we ought not to defpair of finding out
Methods, which may contribute to its manifefting
its leif more frequently •
, which would be certainly
a far greater benefit to Mankind, than the bare
Study of the proper Remedies for ufual and com­
mon Di(tempers, Let me add, that perhaps if
fuch a M thod could be found, it mud alfo de­
fend from almoft all Diltafes, by procuring fuch
a Vigour, as (bould not permit the Entrance of
them.
I have hitherto declined {peaking of long-lived
Animals, upon which, however, the great Lord
Bacon has infilled much. Appollonius, if we may
believe the Writer of his Life, difeovered in
Mount Cautafus, an extraordinary Secret in Na­
tural Hiftory. There are Apes there, it feems,
which feed upon a kind of Pepper, and thefe
Apes are eaten by old Lyons, to renew their
Strength
Digitized by Original from -
INTERNET ARCHIVE ' THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
[ 953
Strength and make them young k. I mud confefs,
I fufpedt this to be rather an Allegory, than a
Fable, and I (hould incline to interpret it thus;
that lofty and ambitious Spirits over-adt theBodies,
in which they inhabit, and induce a premature old
Age $ if this Effedt be not prevented by frequent­
ly unbending their Spirits in the Company of hu­
morous and diverting People, who are well enough
marked out by Apes well feafoned. Thus Agefilaus
the famous King of Sparta, when he was extream-
ly old, amufed himfelf by playing with young
Children. The great Scipio diverted himfelf in
the Company of Terence, and Auguftus had always
about him the mod fprightly Wits of Rome,
Cardinal Richlieu had funk under the Fatigues of
his Minidry, if from Time to Time he had not
been relieved by the humorouus Buffoonry of
Boifrobert. Lewis XIV. was as delicate in his
Amufements, as great in his Councils, and (hewed
as true Judgment in approving a Play of Moliere’s,
as a Projedt of Louvois. We are not therefore to
underdand the Antients litterally, when they de­
liver to us thofe Stories which appear to us in­
credible. But to return to long-lived Animals.
I t is certain, that Eagles arrive at a great Age,
and that they preferve almod as long as they live,
that prodigious Strength which didinguifhes them
Irom*
* Philoftrat. in Vit, Appoloo, Tyan. lib. iy. c. i.
Digitized by
NTERNET ARCHIVE
[ 94 1
From other Birds. We know too, that the Eagle
renews his Plumage annually, and it is not
eafy to conceive how this ftiould be done with­
out a total Change of its Juices. The Stagg is
another long-lived Animal, though I cannot be­
lieve many of the Stories that are told about it.
I mention it only that I may obferve, that annually
it cafts its Horns, which is another Proof of the
renewal of animal Juices. But this is ftill more
confpicuous in the Viper, which in the Spring
cafts its Coat, and comes abroad Youthful as the
Year. If the Eagle, the Stagg, and the Viper
were not common to every Climate, I make no
doubt that the Fads related of them would be
treated as Fables ; but as they happen every Day,
and under our Eyes, we are obliged to own them
For Truths. Yet, what ufe have we made of thefe
Truths ? Who can aftign the Caufes why thefe
Animals live longer than others; or, how it comes
to pafs, that Nature grants them this Privilege of
Rejuvenefcency ? Yet fuch an Enquiry might re­
pay our Induftry abundantly h It is Paid, that we
learned Phyfic from Animals, that Dogs taught us
the Ufe of Emetics, and that Birds put us in
the Head of Glifters. If they were our Tutors
in the lower Parts of Phyfic, why fhould we dif-
dain1
1Aldrovand. Orr.itholog. Gefner de Avibus lib. iii. Ariftot.
de Animalibus.
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
C95 ]
dain their Inftru&ion in this fublimer Part of that
Science ?
I t is not only the Inhabitants of the Land and
Air that attain to fuch vaft Ages, fuch as dwell
in the Waters feem to have yet a larger Share of
Life, of which I will give one well artefted In-
ftance out of many. In the Year 1497, a Fifh-
pond in Suabia, near Huilprin in Germany, they
took a Carp of a prodigious Size, which had in
his Ear, a Ring of Copper, with thefe Words in
Latin. I am the firft Fifh that was put into this
Pond, by the Hands of Frederick II. Governor
of the World, the 5th of October, 1230. This
Carp appeared to have lived 259 Years, and pro­
bably might have lived much longer, had he not
been taken out. I cannot apprehend, that much
ufe will ever be made of Examples of this Sort,
becaufe Fifties live in another Medium, and leem
to have their Lives regulated by Laws different
from thofe of other Animals01. We may fay of
them, that if they do not, like the Eagle, renew
their Vigour, yet they leem never to grow old,
or to exprefs myfelf more clearly. Age with diem
feems exempt from Infirmities. The broken Claw
of a Lobfter grows again, which if ferioufly con-
fidered, is very wonderful, and it is generally
believed.
f Johnfton. Hiftor. Natur.
Origirval from *
THE GETTY RESEARCH IN
ST
ITUTE
[ # ]
believed, that moft Fifties grow as long as they
live, which if true, is not eafily accounted for.
W h a t I would infer from all thefe Hints, is
no more than this, that Nature has furnilhed us
with numerous Examples of what we feek long Life
with the Prefervation of Youth. We fee this daily
in Birds, and in Beads, in Fifh and in Reptiles,
and yet we fet down fatisfied, that fpeedy old Age,
and premature Death, belong to us by the Law
of Nature. Where is the Juftice, where is the
Confiftency of this *
, efpecially, if we conftder,
that the Flefti of many long-lived Animals has a
Quality wonderfully reftorative ? We know that
mighty Things have been done by feeding upon
Vipers, and not much lefs by living upon Shell-
Fifh *
, the Bone of a Stag’s Heart is held to be a
very high Cordial, the Reafon of which is fome-
thing Singular, and therefore I will take Notice
of it n. This Bone is the ftrongeft Proof of the
Stag’s Longevity, for it is nothing elfe but the
Root of the Aorta, grown bony through a long
Series of Years. We are therefore in the wrong
to take it for granted, that Nature has palled fuch
a Sentence upon us, when the Record of Expe­
rience proves dire&ly the contrary, and when we
fo
nThis Bone of a Stag’s Heart enters into all the Receipts
of Bacon the Monk, as well as into 1 thefe that are men-
tior.cd by the Arabian Phyficians ; and as they tranferibe Greek
Authors, it is eaiy to ice, that this Medicine was of great
Antiquity.
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTI
f 97 J
fo plainly fee that the Seeds of long Life are in
long-lived Creatures. But we pafs this Sentence
and execute it upon ourfelves. We fit down not
patient, but deje<5
ted, under what we eileem a
common Calamity, and defire rather to make the
moft of a fhort Life, than to fatigue ourfelves
with the Study of the means by which it may be
prolonged.
I had almofl forgot an Objection which has
been ftarted from a luppofed Law of Nature, with
refpeft to Animals, viz. That thofe have their
appointed Times, and that molt of them are but
of very fhort Periods; the great Lord Bacon hath
taken much Pains to make this out, though with a
better View than the fupporting fuch an Objection,
but after all, I very much doubt the Matter of Fad,
viz. That there are any fuch immutable Laws, that
Animals cannot tranfgrefs. For inftance, it is (aid,
that the Age of a Horfe, I mean his extream Age,
is twenty or twenty-four; Hiftory furnifhes us
with Inftances that contradi&s this. I will men­
tion but one, Mezeray tells us, that a certain
Duke of Gafcogny paid his Homage to the King
of Burgundy on a Horfe that was an hundred Years
old, and which was Hill vigorous and full of
Mettle °. But admitting the Matter of Fa<5
t, where
lies the Force of the Objeflion f Some Animals
N reach
®Hilloire Abrege, de France, Tom. i. p. 401.
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITlfTE
[ 9« 1
reach ten, and others it is confeffed, live much
beyond a hundred *
, what has this to do with the
Life of Man ? why fhould it prove, that we are
Hinted to Fourfcore, more than that we have it in
our Power to live as long as Stags and Eagles. It
may be faid, that there is a certain Gradation in
thefe Periods, and that as each Animal has its af-
figned Term, fo likewife has Man. But we prov­
ed the contrary of this, by all the Methods of
Argumentation yet invented ; we (hewed it from
Scripture, from Reafon, from Experience; and if
all this is not lufficient to baffle a Notion founded
only on Fancy, why, let thofe who are fond of it,
enjoy it. I do not think that Life ought to be
forced upon People, my Creed goes no further
than this, 'That if we feck we may find, if we
knock it will be open’d ; and this I am led to fay,
becaufe I find it fo in other Purfuits, where Men
follow Nature, and not their own Notions. What
mighty Difcoveries has the Newtonian Philofophy
afforded, which had been for ever hid from Men,
if they had continued to follow the Vifions of
Defcartes? How much more certain the Aftronomy
of our Times, than that of our Anceftors? Yet
fome fay, that all thefe Difcoveries are only loft
Truths revived. Be it fo, and let us return to the
Search of that Truth which was known to Her-
niippus, and which has been fo long loft to us.
- - - -- I p
Digitized by Original from
INTERNET ARCHIVE THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
f 99 i
If, therefore, after all that has been faid, there
remain yet any Doubts upon the Mind of the
Reader, we fhall endeavour by all means to re­
move thefe, as well for the Sake of his Satisfaction,
as that, after fo much Pains already taken, we
may not fail in our Attempt, and have this Dif-
fertation confidered only as a litterary Amufe-
ment; whereas, we intend it as a ferious and ufe-
ful Difcourfe. The Antients, who feem to have
ftudied this Matter with the greateft Afiiduity,
and whofe Opinions generally fpeaking, on mature
Examination, appear not altogether unreafonable
to the Moderns; obferve with RefpeCt to the Caufes
of old Age, that they are chiefly three. Firft,
the Circumambient Air, which drys up the natu­
ral Moiflure in Man, at the fame Time, that the
innate Heat of the Body confumes it, as the ne-
cefiary Subfiance on which the Flame of Life muft
feed. The fecond is the Toil and Motion of the
Body, which likewife waftes that aerial Humidity
which is fo neceffary to Health and Life ; the iaffc
is the Paflions of the Mind, which according to
the Sentiments of the learned Avicenna, have
greater Influence than both the other Caufes taken
together, which will feem extreamly reafonable,
if we confider how clofe a Connection there is be­
tween the Pafflons of the Mind, and the Motion
of the animal Spirits, which particularly appears
in Madnefs, when we compare the Circumflances
N 2 attending
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
[ 10° ]
attending it, as a Difeafe of the Mind, with thofc
by which it alfo appears to be a bodily Diftem-
per.
Such as are acquainted with that myfterious
kind of Philofophy, which was in the higheft
Credit with the learned Vulgar of the laft Age,
and which is now as unreafonably difcredited a-
mongft the fame People, and regarded only by
fuch as enquire after Truths, and not received
Opinions; this Philofophy I fay, teaches us, that
there is a great Correfpondence between the Body
of the Earth, and the Body of Man, whence the
Patrons of this Dcxftrine were wont to call the
latter the little World, and the former the great
one. Now, though there is fomething very fanci­
ful in their way of treating this Matter, yet the
Notion in its felf is very juft, and whoever ex­
amines it carefully, will find, that the general
Laws of the Univerfe, are alfo the particular Laws
of all the different kind of Bodies in itj and
hence it comes to pafs, that as Man fuffers and is
deftroyed for want of Moifture, fo this is like to
be the cafe of the World too, or at leaft would be
the Cafe, if it did not receive foreign Supplies;
which the judicious Sir Ifaac Newton fuppofes it
does from the Tails of Comets, the Watery Va­
pours of which, he imagines communicate with
our Atmofphere for that purpofe p.
T h is
pPhjlofopb. Natural. Princip. Mathem. lib. iii.
Digitized by Original from
INTERNET ARCHIVE THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
[ 1°1 ]
T his we muft allow to be a rational, and pro­
bable Account of what for many Ages puzzled
the Underftanding of all Mankind *
, and if fo
wonderful a Method as this is, be necefiary to
fupply the Earth with Moifture, why lhould we
think it ftrange, that a new, and in fome Meafure
unaccuftomed way, lhould be the fitteft for re­
pairing that Humidity, which is fo necefiary to the
well being of the human Body. The Univerfe
is under the fpecial Care and Direction of its in­
finitely wife Creator, who at certain Seafons there­
fore has provided it with fuch requifite Supplies j
but the Bodies of Men are in this refpeCt left to
their own Care, and if the Materials be within
our own Reach, and our Faculties are firong e-
nough to difcover them, we have no more a right
to complain that the Secret of preferving long
Life is not difcovered to us, than that the Art of
baking Bread, of melting Ores, and refining
Metals, or indeed any other Art was not revealed
to our Anceftors in the earlieft Ages of the World,
but left to be the Reward of their Induftry and
Segacity. The Furniture of Man’s Mind, and
the Structure of his Body, are both of them fuch,
that if he has any Reafon to complain, it muft
be of himfelfj and his Reflections upon Providence
are not only impious, but ridiculous. He has it
abfolutely in his Power to be eafy, and happy if
he pleafes. Health will always attend on Tem­
perance
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
Original from <
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
102 ]
perance fteadily purfued, as Galen aftert$ in his
Works, and manifefted in himfelf by living to
upwards of a hundred, without being attacked
either by acute or chronic Difeafes. Riches are aot
indeed within every Man’s Reach, but there is
fomething always at hand infinitely more valuable
than Wealth, I mean Content. If to thefe Blef-
fings we would add length of Days, why that ac­
cording to this Hypothefis is in our Power, and
depends on our finding out a proper Supply of
the aerial Humidity before-mentioned.
W e have now the Clue in our Hand, and no­
thing can hinder us from extricating our felves
from this Labyrinth of Doubts, about the proper
Method of obtaining this Supply, but our own
Negligence and want of Attention. We ought
to remember that Heat and Moifture are from
the very beginning the Principles of human Life.
Let us reflect then, and fee if we cannot dif-
cover whence thele Principles arife. There is, I
think, very little Difficulty in this Cafe, that of
Heat is derived from the Male, that of Moifture
From the Female. It is equally unneceflary and
unbecoming me to introduce a Treatife of Gene­
ration in a Work like this •
, it is fufticient that I
put my Readers in mind, that the enlargement
of the Foetus in the Womb, requires a very ex­
traordinary Degree of Moifture in all Refpe&s,
and that this is entirely derived to it from its Mo-
Digitized by
FERNET ARCHIVE
[ io 3 J
ther. The Growth of an Infant is furprizingly
quick, and this is owing to the Strength of the
Vital Flame, the condant Supply of a proper Hu­
midity, and the not being expofed to thofe Acci­
dents which have been before-mentioned, I mean
the A&ion of the Circumambient Air, bodily
Motion, and the Pafiions of the Mind, from all
which. Children while in the Womb, are in a
great Meafure free. This I think is fo extreamly
clear, and plain, that it is fimply impoflible for a
Man to be in any Perplexity about it, and therefore
I fhall proceed to the next Stage of Life, and en­
quire into the Method which is therein purfucd
by Nature.
In the State of Infancy, there is likewife an ex­
traordinary Provifion necefiary of this humid Ma­
ter, not only fufficient for performing the ordinary
Functions of animal Life, but alfo to facilitate the
r
growth of the Child, and this too proceeds from
the Mother. Nature has furnilhed her with
Breads, and with Milk, which is the mod luitable
Nutriment, that under fuch Circumdances, the
human Body can receive; and in extream old Age,
when the Body is a fecond Time reduced to the
Feeblenefs of Infancy, Milk, and efpecially Wo­
mens Milk, is found to be of very great Ufe, and
in confumptive Cafes alfo, is allowed to be a mod
admirable Redorative. Hence I think it plainly
appears, that the radical Moidure, fo neccflary
to
Digitized by Original
INTERNET ARCHIVE THE GETTY
[ i o 4 ]
to fupply the Flame of Life, and to keep it not
only alive, but vigorous and clear, is to be fought
in Woman. I forefee one great Objection that
may be made to this, viz. That I infid not on
the Breath or Effluvia of Women, but of Virgins.
Yet weigh the Cafes thoroughly, and you will find
all that I have advanced, very confident. The
Nourifhment of a Child in the Womb, and an In*
fant at the Bread, is a Nourifhment no way fit
for Perfons in Years, and therefore I approve what
Bacon delivers from the Arabian Phyficians, viz.
That Milk is an improper Diet for old Men. This
hinders not its being ufeful when People are quite
worn out, for that may furnifh Strength to a dy­
ing Flame, that would not advantage a Lamp in
its ordinary Situation. Perfons in the lad Stage
of Life, are frequently emaciated, and in this
Cafe, Milk may help *
, but dill there is a wide dif­
ference between the natural and gradual Decay ofthe
human Body, and what the Phyficians call a Con-
fumption, there mud be confequently a Difference
in their Cure. Thus from certain and almod felf-
evident Principles, I have edablifhed the Reafon-
ablenefs of this Propofition, that the Breath and
infenfible Perfpiration of Virgins in a young and
healthy State, mud be very falutary for old Men,
and may very probably be a means of prote&ing
them from thofe Infirmities, which ulually attend
an advanced Age. Now, in refpe<ft to this, it
matters
Digitized by Original from
INTERNET ARCHIVE THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
[ i °5 ]
matters not at all, whether the Infcription I fet
out with be founded in Truth or not, neither is
it requifite to believe that I have hit exadtly on the
Method ufed by Hermippus. The fmgle Point in
Queftion is, whether I have fhewn that Senfe in
which I take this Inlcription, to be agreeable, to
the Dictates of Reafon, and the Laws of Nature ;
and as to this, every Reader muft decide for him-
felf. Before he does this, there is another Sort
of Evidence that he ought to hear, and which,
for the Sake of Truth I fhall readily produce.
T h e r e are two Sorts of People whofe Inter-
eft it is particularly to decry this Dodtrine on a
Suppofition that it is deftrudtive of their own, to
which they are prodigioufly, and perhaps unrea-
fonably addidted: I mean the Aftrologers and
Hermetic Philofophers. I fhall examine what
both may objedt, rather for the Entertainment and
Satisfaction, than for the Conviction of the wifer
Part of the World, who are already well enough
apprized of the Credit due to thefe Virtuofi; and
when I have done this, I fhall draw to a fpeedy
Conclufion, from an Alfurance that nothing more
can be neceflary to eftablifh the Probability of this
Method for prefcrving Health and Life, and for
defending our Bodies from the Infirmities of old
Age as long as their Conftitutions will permit.
T he modern Patrons of Aftrology, for fuch it
feems there are, will probably pretend, that this
O Notion
Digitized by Original from 1
INTERNET ARCHIVE THE GETTY RESEARCHI
[ io6 ]
«
Notion of Hermippm was a mere Fancy, and that
if he really reached to an Age fo advanced, it
was not through the Afliftance derived from the
Breath of Virgins, bat from the happy Pofition
of the heavenly Bodies at the Time of his Birth.
It is, however, lucky for me, that they can never
make good this Objection, becaufe I prefume their
Art will not furnifli them with the means of Con-
ftruCting any Scheme of his Nativity. I know
they may plead the Authority of Thomas Aquinas %
and other great Men who have given into thele
Opinions. I know too, that they may produce
fome extraordinary Inftances of the Verification of
Aftrological Predictions; particularly thofe of
Bqfil, who was fo famous at Florence, and of La
Brcjfe, at Paris, who were particularly happy in
guefling at future Events, and in having their
. Predictions recorded by Hiltorians of Credit.
T h e former of thele foretold to Coftno de Me­
dici, then a private Citizen at Florence, that he
would attain fome very high Dignity, in as much
as the Afcendant of his Nativity was adorned with
•
the fame propitious AfpeCts, as thofe of the Em­
perors Augujlus, and Charles V. had been; and he
was accordingly raifed to the Dukedom of Tufcany,
in
s One ftrong Pafiage among many in his Writings, runs
thus. Qui Sciret virtutes Caelorum & Stellarum dum res
ahqua nafeitur poflet judicare de natua rei, licet hoc necefli-
t-tem non imponat, &pofeet impediri per Accidens. D. Tho*
Secundo de Generatione.
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTI"
1 JTE
[ i° 7 ]
in the Month of January 1434r. The fame Greek
Aftrologer, did, with equal Capacity, foretell the
Death of Prince Alexander de Medici, and this
with fuch Confidence, as to paint out the Perfon
by whofe Hand he fhould die, and whom he af­
firmed to be that Prince’s intimate and familiar
Friend ; of a (lender habit of Body, a fmall Face,
and lwarthy Complexion, and who, with a relerv-
ed Silence, was almoft infociable to all Perfons in
the Court; by which Defcription he did almoft
point out with the Finger Laurence de Medici, who
murdered Prince Alexander in his Bed-chamber,
contrary to all the Laws of Confanguinity and
Hofpitality, in the Year 1537 s. But great
Misfortune is, that in thofe Days it was fhrewdly
fufpeded, that thefe pretended Sages had better,
and more certain Methods of penetrating into
Confpiracies, than are afforded by Aftrological
Means, and I muft confefs myfelf inclined to fuf-
ped from the very manner in which this Predic­
tion was delivered, that Baftl was employed to
caution Prince Alexander againft his Coufin Law­
rence, and that for want of Penetration, he fell
into that Snare which he might otherwife have
avoided.
T he Inftance of La. Brojfe, is more to the Pur-
pofe, becaufe better fupported ; indeed, I think
O 2 it
INTERNET ARCHIVE
rDinoth. Memorab. lib. vi. p. 390,
P- 320.
Crgitizea by
C*08 3
that it is the befl attefted Story of its kind.
The Baron de Biron, afterwards the famous Mar-
Ihal of that Name, being under fome Difficulty
about a Duel, went to La BroJJe, and carried him
a Scheme of his Nativity, but told him it was that
of a Friend of his; the Aftrologer having confider-
ed the Scheme, allured him, that the Perfon whofe
Nativity it was, would infallibly be a great Man ;
nay, that he might even come to be a King, but
for the Caput Algol pointing to the Figure of the
Dragon’s FLad in the Scheme. M. de Biron,
who did not underftand the Term, infilled on a
clearer Account; why then, replied La Broffe,
through a Defire of being a King, this Man will
do fomething that will coll: him his Head. Pro­
voked at which Anfwer, the Baron beat him un­
mercifully, but he lived to fulfill his Predi&ion,
having his Head cut off, as all the World knows}
for a Confpiracy againft Henry IV .l.
H ovvmuch foever thefe Sort of Notions have
been difcountenanced by the prevailing of Expe­
rimental Philofophy, and true Science; yet, where
a Prince gives Ear to his own Praifes, there will
never be wanting fuch as will adopt Aftrological
Schemes, as well as other Things to flatter his
Vanity. Nothing is eafier than to give fuch a turn
to a Piece of this Nature j Men of fprightly Parts
‘I
n
v
e
n
t
.G
e
n
. dc France, p
a
rM
. de Serres. p
, 1
0
5
1
.
know
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
[ IOC) ]
know how to drefs up the Face of Heax'en upon
fuch an Occafion, and to difpofe properly of all
the Signs and Planets, fo as to raife mighty Ex­
pectations in the World, as well as the higheft
Pleafure in the Mind of the Prince they flatter.
S u c h were the favourable Influences of the
Celeftial Orbs, at the Birth of the late Lewis
XIV. King of France. The Genethliac Syftem may
be feen in one of the Medals that compofe the Hif-
tory of that Reign. The Gentlemen of the Royal
Academy of Infcriptions, have obferved the precife
Pofition of the Planets, at the Moment of the Birth
*
of that Prince*, round about this curious Medal,
one fees the twelve Signs of the Zodiac, forming
the twelve Houfes, of this Syftem the feven Planets
appear in the fame Degrees they occupied at that
Time, the Sun which gives Perfection to the other
Planets, is in the mid Heaven *
, Mars, the Lord
of the Afcendant, in reception with Jupiter, the
ProteCtor of Life, and this is what they call the
greater Fortune *
, Saturn, the Enemy of Nature, is
in his Dignities, which makes him lefs malevolent;
the Moon is in conjunction with Venus and Mer­
cury, in his little Houfe of Predilection, to ten
Degrees of the Sun out of Combuftion, and en­
lightened by his Rays, gives a Superiority of Ge­
nius in the molt difficult and moft important En-
terprizes, which his being in Quartile with Mars,
is not capable to abate. The Nativity of Lewis
XIV.
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
[ n o 7
XIV. was figured in the Middle of the Medal, by
a rifing Sun, the King is placed in the Chariot
of that glorious Planet of which Ovid has given
us the Defcription. This Chariot is drawn by four
Horfes, guided by Viftcry, the Infcription is in
thefe Words. Ortus Solis Gallici, The Rifing of
the Gallic Sun; and the Exergue contains thefe
other Latin Words. Septembris quinto minutis 38
ante Meridiem, 1638. The $th of September,
38 Minutes before Noon, 1638.
I muft confefs, that this is a pretty Contrivance,
and ingenioufly put together; yet I dare fay, that
none of the learned Gentlemen concerned in fram­
ing this Medal, ventured to predidl any of the
Clouds that obfcured their Sun. No, they were
too great Courtiers for that. But if this famous
Medal give any Reputation to AftroJogy, I fhall
venture to lay down a few Obfervations which
will free my Dodtrine from all Inconveniencies.
I obferve then, that as the happieft Nativities ad­
mit of natural Caules to Co-operate in bringing
about what they portend, fo it is not at all impro­
bable, that if by fome happy Accident we could
gain a Sight of the Horolcope of Iiermippus, it
would fhew us, that Mercury well pofited at the
Time of his Birth, and beheld by Luna with a fa­
vourable Afpedt, caufed his difcovery of this migh­
ty Secret, and enabled him to make fuch a Ufe
of the Breath of Virgins, that no Man ever
thought
Digitized by Origiralfrom
INTERNET ARCHIVE THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
t in ]
thought off before. If the Affrologers are content
to grant me this, I am willing to compromife the
Matter, and which, I think is as much as they can
expedt, to allow this Dodtrine to be derived from
the Stars. But, if they are fo tenacious of their
own Notions, as not to accept of fo fair an Offer,
I fhall rccurr to my firft Principles, and deny
.abfolutely the Certainty of their Art, and demand
as good Reafons for the Credit of Aftrology, as I
have produced in favour of my own Syffem, be­
fore I enter the Lifts with them. Affirmation is
nothing in this Age, wherein Men expedt Proofs
for every Thing. Let them ffiew us then, that
they can predidt an Earthquake, Whirlwind, or
fo much as an Irruption of Mount Etna nay, let
them but mark the Rainy, and fair Days for a
whole Year in any Climate in Europe, and I will
be content, that their Affertions weigh down my
Evidence, and that the long Life of Hermippus
Ihall be afcribed to a happy Conjundtion of humid
Stars, in the Sign Virgo, which was the Interpre­
tation once offered me by a learned Aftrologer of
this Inlcription, and which, together with my
owh Sentiments, I freely lubmit to the Judgment
of the Impartial Reader.
Such as feek after Truth, difguife nothing, and
are fo far from being afraid of feeing their Opinion
canvaffed, and even refuted, that on the contrary,
nothing pleafes them better, becaufe they are ftill
gainers
Digitized by " Original from
INTERNET ARCHIVE THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
[ III ]
gainers by the Difpute *
, fince, when Truth is once
difcovcred, they have as much right to it, as he
who found it. In the prefent Cafe, if this Trea­
dle of mine fhould dir up any wifer Man to look
for a better Solution of the Problem I have dated,
and he fhould luckily fall on the genuine Method
of Hermippus, he could not rejoice at it more than
I, nor would he find any one more willing to
own, or to applaud his Ingenuity. Let us read,
let us meditate, let us difpute, but all for the fake
of Truth, which is the great Property of Man­
kind, conditutes all our Happinefs, and which it is
therefore our common Intereft to purfue. The
Point I have now in view, is todifcover the means
of prolonging Life, without feeling the Infirmities
of Age •
, to the Difcovery of which, if the Pub­
lication of this Treatife any way contribute, not
my end only, but the end of Mankind is anf-
wered, and a mod noble Point of Science will
be illufirated, from what many might at fird
tdeem an idle Difpute.
I fhall not treat the Hermetic Philofophers al­
together fo brifkly as I have done the Adrologers *
,
becaufe, without doubt, there have been amongd
them, many very excellent Perfons. I cannot take
upon me to fay, when they began to lay claim to
the Univerfal Medicine, by which they pretend to
preferve Life for many Centuries, at lead, of which
they fay Artephius was an Indance, who lived by the
Ufe
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
t « 3 l
Ule of it, to the Age of 300, or as fome fay, neat
1000. This is certain, that the Society of the Ro'
ficrucians openly claimed it as one of the Privileges
of their illuftrious Body. Peter Mormius, who for
ought I know, was one of the laft of them that ap-
. peared in Public, reduced their high Pretenfions,
which at firft were very extenfive, to the Polfefliori
of three Secrets. Of thefe, the firft was the Per­
petual Motion ; the fecond, the Art of tranfmu-
ting Metals *
, and the third, the Univerfal Medi­
cine. In the Book publifhed by this Mormius,
there are abundance of curious Things, though he
does not fufficiently explain himfelf, efpecially up­
on the laft Subjectu. It is, however, well enough
known, that thefe Illuminati afierted, that they
had a Power of prolonging their Lives for many
Ages, nor is it very clear from their Writings,
whether, what they are pleafed to call the Philofo-
pher’s Stone, be not at once the great Secret of
Tranfmutation, and of the Univerfal Medicine.
T h e cleareft Account of this Matter that I
have ever met with, is in the Anfwer of a French
P Adept,
uThis Mormius went into Holland in the Year 1630, were
he demanded an Audience of the States-Genera), in order to
tender them certain Propufitions from the Fraternity of Rofi-
crufians, which they refufed to hear; this did not, however,
hinder Mormius from publi(hing a Treatife under the follow­
ing Title, which is now become a fcarce and valuable Book.
Arcana totius naturae Secretiflima, nec ha&enus unquam de-
tefta, a Collegio Rofiano in Lucem produntur, Opera Petri
Mormii, in 24 Lugduni Batavorum, 1630.
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
[ 114 ]
Adept, to Doctor Edmund, Dickenfon, Phyfician to
King Charles II. and a profeft Admirer of the
Hermetic Philofophy. The Do&or’s Letter is
very plain and clear. He wrote to this Friend of
his, in order to be thoroughly informed as to thofe
Contrarieties, which he thought he had difcerned in
the Difcourfes of fome of the Hermetic Sagesi
His Friend gives him a very plaufible Anfwer to
all his Objections, and to enforce the Belief of
what he lays down, he puts the Doctor in mind
of his having made Projection, that is, his having
tranfmuted bale Metals into Gold, more than once,
before the DoCtor in the King’s Laboratory in
Whitehall •
, as to the Univerfal Medicine, and its
Capacity of extending the Life of Man for many
Ages, he pofitively aflerts, that it is the Hands
of the illuminated Brethren, and gives many Rea-
fons why they fhould be fo extreamly careful in
concealing it. He goes fo far as to infinuate, that
it was in his own Pofieflion w. I mult own, I am
aftonifhed at fuch Sort of AfTertions, and more
fo.
wThe Title of Dr. Dickinfon’s Book, referr’d to by our
Author, is, De quinta eflentia Philtffophorum, It was printed
at Oxford, in 1686, and a fecond Time in 1705. There is a
third Edition of it printed in Germany, in 1721. The Au­
thor was one of thofe very great Men, whofe Merits are better
known abroad than at home ; he is mentioned by the learned
Olaus Borrichius, and many other foreign Writers, with much
Refpeft, and juit Teflimonies of Efteem for his extenfive
Knowlege.
- Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
[ ” 5 ]
£o, at Tome Relations well attefted, that feem to
favour the Truth of it.
T h e r e happened in the Year 1687, an odd
Accident at Venice, that made very much ftir then,
and which I think deferves to be fecured from
Oblivion. The great Freedom and eafe with
which all Perfons, who make a good Appearance,
live in that City, is known fufficiently to all who
are acquainted with it; they will not therefore be
furprized, that a Stranger, who went by the Name
of Signor Gualdi, and v/hj made a confiderable Fi­
gure there, was admitted into the bell Company,
though no body knew who, or what he was. He
remained at Venice fome Months, and three Things
were remarked in his Conduct. The firft was,
that he had a fmall Collection of fine Pictures,
which he readily Ihewed to any Body that defired
i t ; the next, that he was perfectly verfed in all
Arts and Sciences, and fpoke on all Subjects with
fuch Readinefs and Sagacity, as aftonifhed all who
heard him ; and it was in the third Place obferved,
that he never wrote or received any Letters; never
defired any Credit, or made ufe of Bills of Ex­
change, but paid for every Thing in ready Mo­
ney, and lived decently, though not in Splendor.
This Gentleman met one Day at the Coffee-Houfe
with a Venetian Nobleman, who was an extraor­
dinary good judge of Pictures: He had heard of
Signor Gualdi's Collection, and in a very polite
P 2 Manner
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
[ *
>
<
S ]
. Manner defired to fee them, to which the other
very readily confented. After the Venetian had
viewed Signor Gualdi's Collection, and exprefled
his Satisfaction, by telling him, that he had never
feen a finer, confidering the Number of Pieces of
which it confided; he cad his Eye by chance over
the Chamber Door, where hung a Picture of this
Stranger. The Venetian look’d upon it, and then
upon him. This Picture was drawn for you, Sir,
fays he to Signor Gualdi, to which the other made
no Anfwer, but by a low bow. You look, con­
tinued the Venetian, like a Man of Fifty, and yet
I know this Picture to be of the Hand of Titian,
who has been dead one hundred and thirty Years,
how is this poflible ? It is not eafy, faid Signor
Gualdi, gravely, to know all Things that are
poffible •, but there is certainly no Crime in my
being like a Picture drawn by Titian. The Ve­
netian eafily perceived by his manner of fpeaking,
that he had given the Stranger Offence, and there­
fore took his leave. He could not forbear fpeaking
of this in the Evening to fome of his Friends, who
refolved to fatisfy themfelves by looking upon the
Picture the next Day. In order to have an Op­
portunity of doing fo, they went to the Coffee-
Houfe about the Time that Signor Gualdi was wont
to come thither, and not meeting with him; one
pf them who had often converfed with him, went
tO his Lodgings to enquire after him, where he
h^rd,
Digitized by Original from
INTERNET ARCHIVE “ THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
[ l l 7 ]
heard, that he fet out an Hour before for Vienna,
This Affair made a great Noife, and found a Place
in all the News-Papers of that Time *
T h is Story agrees very well with what is faid
by Doctor Dickenfon*sCorrelpondent, who obferves,
that the Adepts are obliged to conceal themfelves
For the fake of Safety, and that having a Power
not only of prolonging their Lives, but alfo of
renovating themfelves, they take Care to ufe it
with the utmoft Difcretion, and inflead of making
a Difplay of this wonderful Prerogative, they
manage it with the utmoft Secrecy, which he lays
down as the true Caufe of the World’s being in
fo much Doubt about the Matter. Hence it comes
to pafs, that though an Adept is poffelfed of great­
er Wealth than is contained in the Mines of Peru.
,
yet he always lives in fo moderate a Manner, as
to avoid all Sufpicion, and fo as never to be dis­
covered, unlefs by fome unforefeen Accident, like
that which happened to a famous Englifo Artift,
who difguifed himfelf under the Name of Eugenius
Philalethes, and whofe true Name is laid to be
Thomas Vaughan, the cleareft and moft candid
Writer of all the Hermetic Philofophersy. He tells
us
x Memoires Hiftoriques, 1687, Tom i. p. 365.
y The moft famous of his Pieces is intitled, Introitus Aper-
tu s ad Occlufum Regis Palatium, This was written originally
in Englifh, has been tranflated into almoft all the European
languages, and is unqueftionabiy the beft and cleareft Rook
upon the Subject that is extant in any Tongue.
Digitized by Original from
INTERNET ARCHIVE THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
t n 8 ]
us of himfelf, that going to a Goldfaith, in or­
der to fell twelve hundred Marks of fine Silver,
the Man told him at firft Sight, that it never
came out of the Mines, but was the Produdt of
Art, as not being of the Standard of any Nation
whatever ; which furprized Philalethes fo much,
that he withdrew immediately, and left the Gold-
faith in Poflfeffion of hisTreafure. This famous
Man, who certainly was an Adept, if ever there
was one, led a wandering kind of Life, and fell
often into great Dangers, merely from his poffefling
this great Secret. He was born, as we learn from
his Writings, about the Year 1612, and what is
the ftrangeft part of his Hiftory, he is believed
by thofe of his Fraternity, to be yet living, and
a Perfon of great Credit at Nurenberg, affirms, that
he converfed with him but a few Years ago. Nay,
it is further afferted by all the Lovers of Hermetic
Philofophy, that this very Philalethes, is the Pre-
fident of the Illuminated in Europe, and that he
conftantly fits as fuch in all their Annual Meetings.
It is on the one hand true, that there is fomething
wild and incredible in thefe Relations, and yet it
is as certain on the other, that feveral who atteft
them, are Perfons of irreproachable Character,
and even with Refpedt to this Philalethes, he was,
according to the Report of the great Boyle, and
others who knew him, a Man of remarkable Piety,
and of unftained Morals. In the Englijh Planta­
tions,
Digitized by Original from
INTERNET ARCHIVE THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
[ ” 9 ]
tions, he became acquainted with one Starkey, a
Chymift, before whom he made Projection, but
finding that Starkey was a vicious and extravagant
Man, he broke off his Acquaintance with him,
without communicating any part of his Secrets2.
But it may be faid by liich as look upon this
whole Affair, as an idle and rediculous Thing,
and who confider all thefe Relations, however
attefted, or fupported, as mere Dreams, orVifions.
I fay it may be alleged by thefe angry Critics,
that it is a direct Proof of the Fahhood of their
Pretentions to long Life ; that we have diftindt
Accounts of the Time when their molt celebrated
Patriarchs, fuch as Roger Bacon, Raymond Lully,
and Bafil Valentine died, and were buried. If there­
fore, thefe Men could not preferve their own Lives,
or even protraft them beyond the ordinary Extent,
what probability is there, will thefe People lay,
that any of the Fraternity fhould prolong their
Lives in the Manner they relate ? In Anfwer to
this, the Adepts always infinuate, that if thefe
great Men died, it was by their own Choice, and
that many of their Fraternity ftill decline that
length
2 This George Starkey, was originally an Apothecary, had
a Head turned to Chemiftry, but managed his Affairs fo ill,
that he was obliged to Tranfport himfelf to ih Plantations,
where ne became acquainted with Philalethes, of u.iich \c-
quamta ce he boafts much in his Writing'. In 165S ne pub-
lifhed a Book ot Chemiitry at London, which was ti nil.ted
into French in 1706, and into High Dutch in 1712.
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
[ 120 ]
length of Life their Art would enable them to
Enjoy. This I muft confefs, is an unfatisfaCtory
Anfwer, efpecially to fuch as make the Objection,
but then, fay the Adepts, it is the only Anfwer
that becomes us to give *
, we do not aim at the
Conviction of thefe Sort of People, we are not de-
firous of making a Noife in the World, we do
not even regard the poffefiion of Riches, and long
Life as blefiings in themfelves; further than that,
they enable us to do good, and the foie Reafon of
our ever mentioning fuch Secrets, being in our
poffefiion, is in Order to lead to our Society fuch
worthy Perfons as deferve to be affociated. Now,
however Weak, however Sophiftical, this Rea-
foning may appear to the generality of Mankind,
yet upon the Principles of the Hermetic Philofo-
phy, it muft be allowed to be extreamly Plaufible,
and in all fuch Cafes, we muft admit Men to
argue from their own Principles, and not from
thofe we lay down.
As I do not profels myfelf either an Adept, or
lb much as a ftudent in this Sort of Philofophy,
I lhall take the Liberty, as the matter of FaCt
nearly concerns the SubjeCt of which I am treat­
ing, to Ihape out another Anfwer to this Objection,
and it is this, that perhaps we are not always fo
fecure as to the Deaths of thefe Virtuofi, as we
imagine. The continuance of their Lives is a
Thing, that though they boaft of in one Senfe,
yet
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTF JTE
yet in another they ftudioufly affeCt to conceal.
Of this, I (hall give an extraordinary Inftance,
which will be fo much the more entertaining to
the Reader, as for any thing I know; it has not
yet been taken Notice of by any Writer upon this
Subject, not even by the profcfled Hiftorian of this
Fraternity, notwithftanding he has made larger
Collections concerning them, and their Philofo-
phy, than any Man that ever let Pen to Paper.
This Inftance will be alfo found the more ex­
traordinary, fince I take it from one who never
pretended to be an Adept, and who, therefore,
ought to be confidered as an unprejudiced Witnels.
But before I enter upon this Story, I muft defire
my Readers to obferve, that I lay down barely
FaCts as I find them, and do not pretend to m-
tereft myfell in the leaft, as to the credit they may
meet with.
A m o n g s t the Hermetic Philofophers, who
are allowed to have attained the higheft Secrets of
Science, Nicholas Flamel of Paris, has been al­
ways reckoned one of the moft confiderable, and
his right to this Reputation, the leaft to be con-
tefted. The Hiftoryof this Flamel, whoflournn-
ed in the XIV. Century is very curious: He was
a Perfonof a good Family, though much reduced
in point ofFortune ; had quick Parts a lively Wir,
and with the advantage of no more than an ordi­
nary Education ; was lent to Paris to get a living
as
Digitized by • Originalfrom
INTERNET ARCHIVE THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
[ 122 ]
as he could. Flarnel wrote an extraordinary good
Hand, had Tome notion of Poetry, and Painted
very prettily ; yet all thefs Accompli (laments raifed
him no higher than a hackney Clerk, in which
Condition he work’d very hard, and had mucha-
do to pick up a Subfiftance. In 1357, chance
threw in his way a Book of Hermetic Philofophy,
written by one Abraham a Jewy or rather Engra-
ven on Leaves made of the Bark of Trees, and
illudrated with very curious Pictures, in which
the whole Secret was laid down in the cleared
Manner poflible, to luch as were acquainted with
Hermetic Philofophy. This Treafure coft Flamcl
no more than two Florins, for the Perfon who fold
him the Book, knew nothing of what it contain­
ed, and Flamcl himfelf though he made it his
whole Study for twenty Years, and though he took
the precaution of Copying the Pidtures, and hang­
ing them up in his Houfe, and asking the Learn­
ed their Opinion about them, was able to make
very little of them3.
T i r e d at length with fo vain, and fo la-
borious a Study, he in 1378, took a Refolution
to
a The beft Part of this Account of Nicholas Flame!, is ta-.
ken from his Article in a very curious Book, which, as it de­
serves to be more known than it is, encourages me to fet down
the Title thereof at large, which runs thus. Trefor des
Recherches Sc Antiquitez, Gauloifes reJuites en ordre alpha-
becique Sc enriches de beaucoup d’origines epitaphes Sc autres
chofes rares & curieufes, comme auffi de beaucoup de mots dc
la kuigue Tbyoife, ou Theuchlranque. Paris. 1655.in4.co.
Digitized by Original from
INTERNET ARCHIVE THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTIT |TE
[ i *3 ]
to Travel into Spain, in hopes of meeting there
with fome learned Jew, who might give him the
Key to the Grand Secret; that this Journey might
not appear to be undertaken on quite fo Chime­
rical a Motive, he n de a Vow to go in Pilgri­
mage to St. James of Campojlella, a Practice fre­
quent in thofe Times. After much Search to little
purnofe, he met at laif with a Jew Phyfician at
Leon, who had been lately converted to the Cril-
tian Religion, and who was well verfed in this
kind of Science; this Man, at the Perfuafion of
Flamel, confented to go with him to Paris; but
when they were got as far as Orleans, the Phyfi­
cian who was far in Years, and little accuftomed
to the fatigue of Travel, fell fick of a Fever,
which carried him off in a few Daysb. Flamel
having rendered the laft kind Offices to his dying
Friend, returned very difconfolate to Paris,
where he ftudied three Years more, according to
the Inftru&ions he had received from the Phyfi­
cian, with fuch Succefs, that on the I yth of Ja­
nuary, 1382, he made Proje&ion on a large Quan-
2 tity
b As the Hiftory of Flamel was colle&ed long after his
Death, it is very poffible that there might be fome Miftakes
committed in Relation to the Circumftances attending his Ad­
ventures ; but there is one Thing which I chink proves the
Reality of the Story beyond Difpute, which is, that this very
Book of Abraham the Jew, with the Annotations of Flamel,
who wrote from the Initrudtions he received from this Phy­
fician, was actually in the Hands of Cardinal Richlieu, as
Borel was told by the Count de Cabrines, who faw and ex­
amined it.
Digitized by
INTERNS^ ARCHIVE
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITl TE
[ 124 ]
tity of Mercury, which he changed into fine Sil­
ver, and on the 25th of April following, he tranf-
muted a vaft Quantity of Mercury into Gold.
He afterwards repeated frequently the Experiment,
• and acquired thereby immenfe Wealth. He and
his Wife Perrenella, in the midft of all thefe Riches,
lived (till in their old fober way, and eat and drank
as ufual, out of Earthen Vefiels. They maintain­
ed however a vaft Number of Poor, founded four­
teen Hofpitals, built three Chapels, and repaired
and endowed feven Churches. In fhort, the Abts
of Charity they did, were fo aftonifhing, that
Charles the VI. who was then upon the Throne,
refolved to enquire how they came by their Wealth,
and fent for that purpofe M. de Cramoifi, Mafter
of Requefts, and a Magiftrate of the higheft Re­
putation for Probity, and Honour, to examine
into their Circumftances i to whom Flamelgave fo
fatisfabtory an Anfwer, that no further Enquiry
was made about them ; but the honeft old People
were left in Pofieflion ofthe only Privilege they de-
fired, which was no greater, than that of doing all
the good that lay in their Power c.
* T he *
c This too. is a Fadl out of Difpute, and as a Proof that
Flamel drew his Riches from his Acquaintance with the Her­
metic Philofophy, the Hterogliphic Pidlures upon his Tomb,
are ufually, and I think very juilly cited, as well as the
Treatifes he wrote upon this Subjedl, particularly the following
Work of his, La grand Ecclairciflment de la Pierre Philofophale,
pour la tranfmutation de tous Metaux, par Nicholas Flamel,
in Svo. Paris, 1628.
Digitized by Original from
INTERNET ARCHIVE THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTIT jTE
[ i *5 ]
T he Circumftances of this Story, the immenfe
Wealth of Flamel, and his Wife, their many
Foundations, their vaft Endowments, and the pro­
digious Eflate they left behind them, are all Fadls,
fo well attefted, that no Difpute can be railed
about them; or if there were, the laft Will of
Nicholas Flamel, which, with forty Authentic
A&s, of as many charitable Foundations, that
are laid up in the Archives of the Parifh Church
of St. James, in the Butchery at Paris, are Proofs
capable of convincing the greateft Infidel. This
Flamel, wrote feveral Treadles on the Art of Chy-
miftry; but they are extreamly Obfcure, becaufe
they are all delivered in an Allegorical Way, and
confequently one may hit upon various Interpre­
tations, without coming at the true one ; which it
is faid, he gave to a Nephew of his, and that the
Secret remained long in the Family, nay it is owing
to Indifcretion, if it does not fo ftilld. I mufl
not however, conceal an Attempt that has been
made to overturn the whole of this Hiftory, not
by denying the Fads, for that would have been
rediculous, fince there are hundreds of Poor that
yet4
4Flamel left his Secret to the Family of Du Perrier, the
laft of which was a Phyfician of that Name, amongft whofe
Papers it was found ; I meanonly part of the Powder, by one
Du Bois ; who having adled very imprudently in making Pro
jeftion before feveral Perfons, and pretending to much greater
Knowlege than he really had, brought upon himlelf an un­
fortunate End, being hang’d by order of Cardinal Richelieu.
Digitized by Original from I
INTERNET ARCHIVE - THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
t ]
yet fubfifl on Flamel*s, and his Wives Foun­
dations, and are confequently fo many living W it­
n ess of the Veracity of that Part of the Relation.
B u t the Thing attempted is, to give another Ac­
count of Flamel’s acquiring his Wealth, and in or­
der to this, they tell you, that he was a Notary Pub­
lic, at the Time the Jews were expelled France, that
they depofited with him in Trufl:, a great Part of
their Wealth, and that he kept it for his own
Ufe e. Such as treat all that is faid of the Philo •
fophers Stone, and of Hermetic Philofophy, as a
Fable, have run away with this Explication, as if
it had been a clear and fatisfadlory Account of the
Matter, without confidering that it is in Truth
attended with greater Difficulties, than the Tale of
the Tranfmutation. For what probability is there,
that Perfons of fo much Worth and Piety as
Flamel and his Wife are allowed to have been,
fhould be guilty of fuch a flagrant Act of Injuftice,
as to betray the Trufl: repofed in them, and this
purely to do Adis of Charity ? If, indeed, they
had lived in luxurious Plenty, and had rioted in
all the Pleafures which their immenfe Wealth
e This Story, as far as I am able to learn, was firft ufhered
into the World by Gabriel Naude, a warm and angry Writer,
and one far from being exaft ; from him it is copied by George
Hornius, in his Preface to the Works of Geber, and by many
other Writers. But as to the Notoriety of the Fa£t, with re-
fpett to the Baniflimcnt of the Jews, as all rhp T'renrR FTif_
torians agree in it, and in the Dates relatin
fafely conclude, that it is fully anfwered.
might
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
might have enabled them to have indulged, the
Story might have deferved Tome Credit; but to
imagine that two fober People, leading a Life of
the utmoft frugality, and expending all their Re­
venues for Pious and Charitable Purpofes, Ihould
contrive to get the Money fo fpent, by bafe and
fraudulent Means, is utterly incredible. Befides,
if this had been the Cafe, it is impofiible to account
for two Circumftances; the firft is, that the King
of France Ihould be fatisfied with the Account that
Flamel thought fit to give to Cramoifi; the other,
that this Story Ihould never break out during the
Life of Flamel, nor within an Age after his Death:
But as I know there are People, who, to avoid
being fufpe&ed of Credulity, will fwallow any
Thing oppofite to what they think, it would be
a Ihame to believe; I fhall deftroy this Critical
Hiftory of Flamel*s Riches, by an Argument,
even that thefe People dare not diferedit. In
Ihort, the Jews have been twice expelled France,
firft in 1180, long before Flamel was born, and
again in 1406, feveral Years after all his Endow­
ments were made, and but Even Years before the
Death of him and his Wile Pcrrenella f.
•
B u t
f If the Reader has a Mind to be better acquainted with
the Adventures of this Adept, he may confuit the Hiftory of
Hermetic Philofophy, published lately by the Aboe Lenblet
du Frefnoy.
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
[ 1*8 ]
B u t methinks I hear fome Captious Reader
cry out, what did Flamcl and Pcrrenella die ? to
what end then all this tedious Story ? what is
there in FlamePs Life, that Correfponds with that
of Hermippus ? or what has Alchymy to do with
the Breath of Virgins, or the Prolongation of hu­
man Life ? Peace a little *
, I promifed you fome
Account of Flamel, that has not been hitherto re­
garded, that has elcaped the Notice of all who
have written the Hiftory of Hermetic Philofo-
phers, from the noble Olaus Borrichius, down to
Abbe du Frenfoy, and this I am going to give you.
But, permit me, to obferve, firft, that my Ac­
count is taken from the Travels of the Sieur Paul
Lucas, who by order of Lewis XIV. palled
through Greece, Afia Minor, Macedonia, and Afri­
ca^ in fearch of Antiquities, who dedicated this
Book of his, to that Prince, and who mull be
therefore prefumed to relate what was true, or
what he took to be true •
, for no body, who knew
the Chara&er of Lewis XIV. can imagine, that
he would luffer a Fellow to Ulher his Fallhoods
into the World, under the Sanction of his Name ;
much lcls, that after being guilty of fuch a Piece
of Infolence, he fhould encourage, proteft, and
employ fitch a Man, as in fa£t he did, to the very
end of his Reign •
, and this, in confequence of the
Reputation he acquired from the Publication of
the
[ 12$) ]
the Voyages, the Authority of which I am going
to ufe s.
I t may not be amifs, to put my Reader in
mind, that I have ftriiftly kept my Word. The
Sieur Lucas was no Hermetic Philofopher, no
Chymift, no deep Student in the Sciences ; and if
we guefs from his Writings, no Man of Art, or
Addrefs; but a bold, rough, free-fpoken Tra­
veller, who had feen much, and was willing to
tell the World all he had feen. If from hence,
any Ihould be led into an Opinion that he was a
Credulous Man, and might be eafily impofed on,
I have nothing to fay to that; I do not intend to
turn Advocate for the Solidity of a Traveller’s
Underftanding, any more than for the Truth of
Hermetic Phflofoph’
y. I only lay down Things
as they are, or at lead: as they appear to be, and
leave all the reft to the Readers Decifion. All
I infift upon, as to the Sieur Lucas's Relation, is
this, that he could not be deceived as to the M at'
ter of Fa6t; he could not dream the Story he has
told us; he could not fee it in a Vifion, and as to
the reft, Id o not concern myfelf about it; he
might poftibly be cheated by the Mohammedan
Monks, for I can readily conceive, that Monks
R of
e See the Preface to the Book from which this Story is taken,
which is entitled Voyage de Sieur Paul Lucas fait par Ordre
Du Roi dans La Greet, &c. Amlterdam, 1714. in 12010. two
“ “
Digitized by Original from J
INTERNET ARCHIVE THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITfTE
C >3° ]
of all Religions, are the fame; and yet, if as great
Abfurdities, and much greater Difficulties attend
the Story in this Light, than in any other *
, I pre-
fume it may juftify a Hint, that it is not impoffi-
ble it might be, otherwife than fuch fevere Critics
may incline to believe. But it is now time to
come to the Story, and therefore I fhall put an end
to my Reflections.
H e informs us, that being at BrouJJa, in Natolia,
and going to take the Air towards a little Village
called Bournous Bachy, at a fmall Diftance from
thence, in Company with a Perfon of DiftinClion j
he met with the following Adventure, which I
fhall relate to you exaCtly in his own Words. We
went together to a little Mofque, fays he, where,
one of their moft eminent Dervifes was interred.
It is always a Dervife that has the Cuftody of fuch
Places, which are, generally fpeaking, pleafantly
fituated, adorned with Gardens and Fountains,
and on that Account, fet a-part for public Walks,
and Places for Recreation. We were quickly in­
troduced into a little Cloifter, where we found
four Dervifes, who received us with all imaginable
Civility, and defired us to partake of what they
were eating; we were told, what we foon found
to be very true, that they were all Perfons of the
greateft Worth and Learning. One of them,
who faid he was of the Country of the Usbecks,
(a Tribe of Tartars) appeared to me more learned
that)
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITILITE
L VJ A j
than the reft, and I believe verily he fpoke all the
Languages in the World. As he did not know
me to be a Frenchman, after we had converfed
fometime in the Furkifh Languages, he afked me,
if I could fpeak Latin, Spani/h, or Italian. I told
him, that if he pleafed, he might talk to me in
Italian •, but as he foon difcovered by my Accent,
that it was not my Mother Tongue, he afked me
frankly, what Country I came from. As foon as
he knew that I was a Native of France, he fpoke
to me in as good French as if he had been brought
up at Paris. How long Sir, faid I, did you ftay
in France ? He anfwered me, that he had never
been there, but that he had a great Inclination to
undertake the Journey.
I did all that lay in my Power to ftrengthen
that Refolution, and perfuade him to it, in order
to which, I told him, that there was no Kingdom
in the World more polifhedj that Strangers ef-
pecially were extreamly well received there, and
that without Queftion, he would receive the great-
eft Satisfaction from this Journey. No, no, re­
turned he, I am not in fuch a hurry to make it,
I fhould be a Fool to flatter myfelf with any fuch
Hopes *
, I am one of the Sages, and I know that
it is enough to hinder me from enjoying Quiet
there, fo that I am not like to think any more of
the Matter. 1 took a great deal of Pains to con­
vince him, that he was deceived, that fome bad
R 2 People
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
' ' [ , 3 2 - !
People had given him ill ImprefTions of my Coun­
try-, tliat France on the contrary, was the very Nur-
fery of the Learned, and that the King, whofe Sub­
ject I had the Honour to be, was the greatefl Pa­
tron of the Sciences. I went further (till, I told
him, that though I had not the Honour to be of
any learned Profeffion myfelf, yet his Majefty was
pleated to defray the Expences of the Travels in
which he law me engaged, and this with no other
View than to procure Notices of thofe Things,
the Knowlege of which, remained yet necefiary
for perfecting the Sciencesj fuch as of Herbs that
might be ufeful in Phyfic, antient Monuments,
that might contribute to the Illuftration of re­
markable Events, and confequently ferve to render
Hiltory more compleat; the View of the Coun­
tries themfelves, in order to the rectifying Geo­
graphical Charts■
, in fine, I run through all the
Proofs i could think of, in order to convince him
of the Inclination that prevailed in France, in Fa­
vour of the Sciences, and of Learning, all which
he attributed to the Climate, and feemed to ap­
prove what I faid, out of pure Civility. At laft,
however, he feemed to be ravifhed with the fine
Things I told him, and went fo far as to allure
me, that fome Time or other he would certainly
go thither. Our Converfation being ended, the
Dervifes carried us to their Houfe, which was at
the Bottom of the Mountain, very near Bournous
Bachy,
Digitized by Original from
INTERNET ARCHIVE THE GETTY RESEARCH IN:
*
l l E
Bacbyy where having dia. 1
; " I x k my
leave of them, but with a Promife, however, that
I would come and fee them again.
O n the 10th, the Dervife whom I took for an
UJbeck, came to pay me a Vifit. I received him
in the bell Manner pollible, and as he appeared
to me a very Learned, as well as curious Man, I
Ihewed him all the Manufcripts I had bought,
and he allured me, they were very valuable, and
written by great Authors: I mull lay, in Favour
of this Dervife, that he was a Perfon every way
extraordinary, even to his outward Appearance.
He lhewred me abundance of curious Things in
Phyfic, and promifed me more *
, but at the fame
Time he could not help faying, that it was ne-
cefiary, that I Ihould make fome extraordinary
Preparations on my Side, in order to put myfelf
into a Condition of profiting by the Lights he was
able to give me. Tojudge according to his Ap­
pearance, he Ihould have been a Man about thirty,
but by his Difcourfe, he Teemed to have lived at
leaft a Century, and of this, I was the more per-
fuaded from the Accounts he gave me of fome
long Voyages he had made.
H e told me, that he was one of feven Friends,
w'ho all w
rander’d up and down the World, with
the fame View of perfecting themfelves in their
Studies, and that at parting, they always appoint­
ed another Meeting at the End of twenty Years,
in
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITLTE
[ 134]
in a certain City which was mentioned, and that
the firft who came, waited for the reft. I per­
ceived, without his telling me, that Broujfa was
the City appointed for their prefent Meeting.
There were four of them there already, and they
appeared to converfe with each other, with a Free­
dom that fpoke rather an old Acquaintance, than
an accidental Meeting. In a long Converfation,
with a Man of great Parts, it is natural to run
over abundance of curious Topics. Religion and
natural Philofophy took up our Thoughts by
Turns, and at laft, we tell upon Chemiftry, AI-
chymy, and the Cabala ; I told him, that all thefe,
and efpecially the Notion of the Philofophers
Stone, were now regarded by moft Men of Senfe,
as mere Fictions and Chimeras. That, returned
he, ought not to furprize you, for in the firft Place
we ought to fufter nothing to aftonifh us in this
Life ; the true Sage hears all Things without be­
ing fcandalized at them ; but though he may have
fo much Complaifance, as not to fhock an ignorant
Perfon when he talks of thefe Things, yet is he
obliged, do you think, to fink his Underftanding
to a Level with vulgar Minds, becaufe they are
not able to raife their Thoughts to an Equality
with his ? When I fpeak of a Sage, faid he, I
mean that kind of Man to whom alone the Title
of Philofopher properly belongs. He has no fort
of tie to the World, he fees all Things die and
revive
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
[ *35 ]
revive without Concern; he has more Riches in
his Power, than the greateft of Kings, but he
tramples them under his Feet, and this generous
Contempt, fets him even in the midfl of Indi­
gence, above the Power of Events.
H e r e I Hop’d him. With all thefe fine
Maxims faid I, the Sage dies, as well as other
People. What imports it therefore to me, to
have been either a Fool, or a Philofopher, if
Wifdom hath no prerogative over Folly, and one
is no more a Shield againft Death than the other?
Alas! faid he, I perceive you are abfolutely unac­
quainted with fublime Science, and have never
known true Philofophy. Learn from me my
Friend, fuch a one as I have defcribed dies indeed,
for Death is a Debt which Nature exads, and
from which therefore no Man can be exempt; but
then he dies not before the Time fix’d by his great
Creator. But then you muff obferve, that this Pe­
riod approaches near a thoufand Years, and to the
Extent of that Time a Sage may live. He arrives
at this, through the knowlege he has of the true
Medicine. By this means, he is able to ward off
whatever may impeach, or hinder the Animal
Functions, or deftroy the Temperature of his
Nature. By that, he is enabled to acquire the
Knowlege of whatever God has left within the
Cognizance of Man. The firft Man knew them
by his Reafon ; but it was this fame Reafon that
blotted
Digitized by Originalfrom
INTERNET ARCHIVE THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
[ i 3<
* ]
blotted them again from his Mind ; for having
attained to this kind of natural Knowlege, he
began to mingle therewith his own Notions and
Ideas. By this Confufion, ,which was the Effects
of a foolifh Curiofity, he rendered imperfect even
the Work of his Creator, and this Error it is, that
the Sage labours to redrefs. The reft of Animals
a£t only by their Inftindt, by which they preferve
ihemfelves, as at their firft Inftilution, and live as
long now, as when the World firft began. Man
is yet a great deal more perfect j but, has he ftill
preferved that Prerogative we mentioned, or
has he not loft long ago the glorious Privilege of
living a thoufond Years, which with fo much Care
he fhould have ftudied to preferve ? This then
it is, that the true Sages have retrieved, and that
you may no more be led into miftakes; let me
afiure you, that this is what they call the Philo-
fophers Stone, which is not a Chimerical Science,
as fome half read People fancy, but a thing Solid
and Sound. On the other Hand, it is certainly
known, but to a few, and indeed it is impofiible
it fhould be made known to moft part of Man^
kind, whom Avarice or Debauch deftroy, or
whom an impetuous defire of Life kills.
Surprized at all I heard, and would you
then perfuade me, faid I, that all who have pof-
fefled the Philofophers Stone, have likewife lived
a thoufand Years? Without doubt, returned he
gravely.
Digitized by Original from
INTERNET ARCHIVE * THE GETTY RESEARCH INS
<
TE
[ >37 ]
gravely, for whenever God has been pleafed to
favour any Mortal with that BlefTing, it depends
entirely on himfelf to reach the Age of a thoufand
Years, as in his State of Innocence the firft Man
might have done. I told him, that there had been in
our Country, lome of thofe happy Mortals that were
faid to have poflcfled thisLife-giving Stone, and yet
had never extended their Days to fuch a Length as
to go with a decripidnefs, that muft attend fuch an
excefilve an Age, into another State. But, con­
tinued he, don’t you know that the Appellation
of a Philofopher, is much proftituted •
, let me tell
you once again, there is none properly fuch, but
thofe who live to the Age I have mentioned. At
laft, I took the Liberty to mention the illuftrious
Flamel, who, I faid, had poflefled the Philofopher’s
Stone, but was dead to all Intents and Purpofes
for all that. At the mention of his Name, he
fmiled at my Simplicity. As I had by this Time
begun to yeild fome degree of Credit to his Dif-
courfe, I was lurprized he fliould make a Doubt of
what I advanced, upon this Head; the Dervife
obferved this, and could not help faying with an
Air of Mirth, and do you really think the Thing
fo ? do you actually believe Flamel is dead ? No,
no, my Friend, continued he, don’t deceive your-
felf, Flamel is living (till, neither he nor his Wife
are yet at all acquainted with the dead. It is not
above three Years ago fince I left both the one and
S the
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
[ >33 1
the other in the Indies, and he is, laid he, one of
my beft Friends; upon which, he was going to
tell me, how their Acquaintance grew, but Hop­
ping himfelf Ihort of a fudden, that, faid he, is
little to the purpofe, I will rather give you his
true Hiftory, with refpe<5
t to which, in your
Country, I dare fay, you are not very well ac­
quainted.
W e Sages, continued he, though rare in the
World, yet are we equally of all Sedls and Pro-
feflions, neither is there any great inequality a-
mongft us on that Account. A little before the
Time of Flamel, there was a Jew of our Fra­
ternity ; but as through his whole Life he had a
moll ardent Affe&ion for his Family, he could not
help defiring to fee them after he once came to
the Knowlege of their being fettled in France.
W e forefaw the Danger of the Thing, and did
all that in us lay, to divert him from this Journey,
in which we often fucceeded. At laft, however,
the Paffion of feeing his Family grew fo ftrong
upon him, that go he would; but at the Time
of his Departure, he made us a folemn Promife to
return to us as foon as it was pofilble. In a Word,
he arrived at Paris, which was, as it is now, the
Capital of the Kingdom, and found there, his Fa­
ther’s Defendants were in the higheft Efteem a-
mong the Jews. Amongft others, there was a
Rabbi, who had a Genius for the true Philofophy,
and
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INST .TE
C »3P ]
and who had been long in Search of the great
Secret. Our Friend did not hefitate at making
himfelf known to his Relation, on the contrary,
he entered into a ftridt Friendfhip with him, and
gave him abundance of Lights. But as the firft
Matter is a long Time preparing, he contented
himfelf with putting into Writing, the whole Se­
ries of the Procefs, and to convince his Nephew that
he had not amufed him with Falfhoods, he made
Projection in his Prefence on thirty Ocques {an Oc-
que is three Pounds) ofbafe Metal, and turned it into
pure Gold. The Rabbi full of Admiration, did all
he could to perfuade our Brother to remain with
him, but in vain ; becaufe he, on the other Hand,
was refolved not to break his Word with us. The
Jew when he found this, changed his Affection in­
to mortal Hatred, and his Avarice ftifling all Prin­
ciples of Nature and Religion, he refolved to ex-
tinguilh one of the Lights of the Univerfe. Ditt
fembling, however, his black Defigns, he befought
the Sage in the tendered: Manner, to remain with
him only for a few Days. During this Space, he
plotted and executed his execrable Purpofe, mur-
thered our Brother, and made himfelf Matter of
his Medicine. Such horrible Actions never re­
main long unpunilhed. Some other black Things
he had done, came to light, for which the Jew was
thrown into Prilon, convi&ed, and burnt alive.
S 2 T he
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
[ M ° 3
T he Jews Fell foon after under a Perfecution
at Paris, as without Doubt you have heard.
Flame!, more reafonable than the reft of his Coun­
trymen, entered into a ftridl Friendfhip with fome
of them ; and as his great Honefty, and unble-
milhed Probity were well known, a Jew Merchant
entrufted him with all his Books and Papers, a-
mong which were thofe of the Jew which had'
been burnt, and the Book that our Brother had left
with him. The Merchant taken up no doubt with
his own Affairs, and with the Care of his Trade,
had never confidered this valuable Piece with any
Attention *
, but Flame!, vvhofe Curiofity led him
to examine it more clofely, perceiving feveral Pic­
tures of Furnaces and Alembicks, and other Vef-
fels, he began immediately to apprehend, that in
this Book was contained the grand Secret. He
got the firft Leaf of the Book, which was in He­
brew, mandated, and with the little he met with
therein, was confirmed in his Opinion *
, but know­
ing that the Affair required Prudence and Circum-
fpe&ion, he took, in order to avoid all Difcovery,
the following Steps. He went into Spain, and as
Jews were every where fettled throughout that
Country, in every Place that he came to, he ap­
plied himfelf to the moft learned, engaging each of
them to tranflate a Page of his Book ; having thus
obtained an entire Verfion, he fet out again for Pa­
ris. He brought back with him a faithful Friend
of
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTf TE
1
[ H I 3
of his, to labour ,T,;:h rk. and with
whom he intended .
ging Fev^r carried him on, t.
of his Afifociateh. When therefore he cam.
he and his Wife entered together upon the \ \
and arriving in procefs of Time at the Secret, ac­
quired immenfe Riches, which they employed in
building public Edifices, and doing good to a
Multitude of People.
F ame is frequently a very dangerous Evil;
but a true Sage knows how to extricate himfelf
from all kinds of Peril. Flamel faw plainly, that
the prevailing Notion of his having the Philofo-
phers Stone might be fatal, both to his Liberty
and Life; he therefore bent all his Thoughts to
the contriving fome Method for extricating himfelf
out of this Danger, and having at laft (truck out
one, he took Care to execute it immediately, and
found means to fecure their Flight, by fpreading
a
hThe Reader will eafily perceive, that there are fome
Variations in this Hiftory from that which we have before
given of Flamel; but this only (hews, that we have not done
any Thing to countenance this Tale, or to give it that Air of
Probability, which in Truth it wants, and after all the Dif­
ference between thefe Accounts, is very far from being fo
great, as to deftroy the Credit of either of them. For it is
very probable, that Lucas’s Memory might betray him, and
that he might refrelh it on his return into France, from the
common Story of Flamel, w'ith which his agrees The prin­
cipal Reafon of my citing it, was, his Conclufion, which I
particularly recommend to the Reader’s Confideration ; fince,
if Flamel’s Story be known in thofe Parts of the World, with
fuch a Degree of exaflnefs, it is little lefs wonderful than tne
lhe StMy “>a11 '«* Circumlhnccs. on*™, t™,
INTERNET ARCHIVE THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
i
t »4* ]
a Report of his Wives Death, and his own. By
his Advice, ffie fained herfelf Tick of a Diftemper,
which had its ufual Courfe, fo that by the Time
fhe was laid to Die, (he had reached the Frontiers
of Swiflerland, where he had directed her to wait
for him. They buried in her ftead a Wooden
Image, drefs’d up, and that nothing might be
wanting to the Ceremonial, it was interred in one
of the Churches that they had founded. Some
time after, he had recourfe to the like Stratagem
for his own Security, and having buried another
Wooden Statue, he by that time the Funeral was
over, joined his Wife. You will eafily perceive,
that there was no great Difficulty in all this, fince
in every Country if a Man has Money, Phyficians
and Priefts are always at his Service, ready to fay,
or do whatever he dire&s them. To give the
Thing ftill the better Grace, and to prevent the
leaft Sufpicion of the Cheat, Flamel made his laft
W ill and Teftament in Form, wherein he parti­
cularly defired that his Corps might be interr’d
near that of his dear Wife, and that a Pyramid
ffiould be ere&ed to their Memories. Since that
Time, both of them have led a Philofophic Life,
fometimes in one Country, fometimes in another.
This, depend upon it, is the true Hiftory of Fla-
mel and his Wife, and not that which you have
heard at Paris, where there are very few who
have ever had the leaft Glympfe of true Wifdom.
f T his
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTIT TE
r 143 ]
T his Story appeared to me what I think it
muft appear to every one, equally lingular and
ftrange, and the more fo, as it was told me by a
Q
Mohammedan, who I have all the reafon in the
World to believe never fat one Foot in France.
As to the reft, I report this Matter purely as an
Hiftorian, and I have even pafled by abundance
of Circumftances more remarkable than any I have
related; the Truth of which however, he affirmed.
I fhall content myfelf therefore, with faying, that
we are apt to entertain too mean Notions of the
Learning of the Mohammedans, for certainly this
Man was a Perfon in all refpeCtsofextenfive Know-
lege, and a fuperior Genius *
.
W e have now done with the Hiftory of Flame!>
and if the Reader has a mind to know how I bring
it to have any Connection with my Subject, I
fhall inform him, in very few Words. According
to my Sentiments, which are in part founded upon
the Writings of Flame! himfelf, the firft Matter of
the Univerfal Medicine, the Pnilofophers Stone,
or the grand Secret of the Hermetic Philofophers,
is taken from the Air*, and from fome of their
Writings I have gathered, that they were not
altogether unacquainted with the Secret of Hermip-
pus (b that if this Infcription had failed into their
Hands, I make no queftion but they would have
pronounced
| Voyage du Lucas, Tom. i. p. 79 — 90.
Digitized by Original from
INTERNET ARCHIVE THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
[ M
4 ]
pronounced him an Adept, and have fupported
this Decifion of their’s, by giving us an Account
in their Manner, of his Method of performing
itk. This Account fo far as I have been able to
Collett it, the Reader (hall receive in the cleareft
Terms, for I pretend not to adopt their Manner
of Writing, or to hide in ambiguous Allegories,
fo ufeful a Truth.
In fome Books, written by thefe Sort of Phi-
lofophers, I have met with various Experiments
for applying the Salubrious Particles of the human
Breath to Medicinal Purpofes ; and amongft thefe,
the following feems to be that which belt deferves
Notice, as it (hews a wonderful Ingenuity, and is
I believe, the fingle Attempt that was ever made
to extratt the Tinttures of living Animals, in
order to make them enter like other Tinttures, in­
to all the Ufes of Phyfic. “ Let there be, fays
“ my Author, a fmall clofe Room prepared, and
“ let there be fet up in it, five little Beds, each
“ for a fingle Perfon. In thefe Beds, let there
<
c lie five Virgins under the Age of thirteen, and
“ of wholefome Conftitutions. Then in the
Spring
k This Difcovery will be pretty evident to any Reader who
confults the fourth, ninth, and twelfth Pages of a Treatife
at the End of Mangctus’s Bibliotheca Chemica, which Piece is
entitled, Mutus Liber, in quo 'I amen tota Piulofophia Her-
metica, figuris hieroglyphicis depingitur ter optimo maximo,
Deo mifencordi confecratus, fohlque filiis arris dedicatus, Au­
thors cuius nomen tit Altus.
&
Digitized by Original from
INTERNET ARCHIVE THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTt flE
_________________________ ____________________________________________________________
L HS
4
4 Spring of the Year, about the Beginning of the
4e Month of May, let there be a Hole pierced
*4 through the Wall of the Chamber, through
44 which, let there be inferted the Neck of a
“ Matrafs, the Body of the Glal's being expofed
44 to the cold Air without. It is eafy to appre-
4
4 hend, that when the Room is filled with the
44 Breath and Matter perfpired by thefe Virgins,
44 the Vapours will continually pafs through the
44 Neck of the Matrafs into the Body of the
44 Veflfel, where, through the Coldnefs of the Cir-
4e cumambient Air they will be condenfed into a
4
6 clear Water, which is a Tindture of admirable
44 Efficacy, and may be juftly firiled an Elixir
4
6 Vita, fince a few Drops of it, given in the
<
c Beginning of any acute Diftemper, refolves and
<
c difperfes the morbific Matter, fo as to enable
4
4 the animal Force to throw it off by infenfible
44 Perfpiration K3
3
I could mention another Preparation from the
Vital Part of the Air itfelf, which is a great Se­
cret amongft thefe Philofophers, and is, perhaps
the IVhite Dove, often mentioned in the Writings
of Philalethes, of which, thus much is certain,
that when the Air is once fpoiled of this Principle,
it is no longer fit for Animal Rcfpiration, and it
T was*
3
1Secreti di diverfi cxcellentiflimi Huomini. in Svo. in
Milano. 1^58. See alfo Lana : de mot. tranfpirat. lib. ii.cap.
3. artific. ii. p. 73. 74.
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTIT TE
[ 146 ]
was by a Contrivance of this Kind, that the fa­
mous Cornelius Drebell made that Liquor, which
fupplied the Place of Air in the Machine he con­
trived for carrying on a Kind of fubmarine Navi­
gation. This Medicine, which is, as I have faid,
extracted from the Air, is whiter than Snow, cold­
er than Ice, and fo volatile, that if the Quantity of a
Nutmeg be expofed to the Air, it is afcrib’d there­
by in the Space of a few Seconds. This Secret,
which is ufed for the fame Purpofesas the former,
is (tiled Aura 'Puellarum m. W e may gather from
all this, that if the Hermetic Philofophers have in
reality any fuch Secret as they boaft off, for the
prefervation of human Life, it is built upon the
lame Principles with thofe which I have already
laid down, and confequently no true Adept can
confidently with his own Notion of Things, op*
pofe my Doctrine, efpecially when he confiders,
with what Reftri&ions it is offered, fince I do not
propofe, as the Sages do, the prolonging Man’s
Life to the Term of a thoufand Years, neither
do I promife the Renovation of Life, as fome
meaner
mWhoever confults the Liber Mutus, will plainly perceive,
that the firft Matter is taken from the Air ; but by a Method
very different from that which I here fuggeft, though poffibly
they may both contribute to the fame End, fince it is eafy to
conceive, that the firft Matter of the Philofophers may refide
in feveral Places; nay, fome of them have affirmed, that it
is to be found every where ; the famous Jacob Boehmen aflert-
«d, that it was to be met with in the Dirt of the Streets.
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTlTiTE
[ J47 ]
meaner Artifts have done; all I contend For is, the
poflibility of making fuch Ufe of youthful Spirits^
as for a Time to keep of the Inconveniencies of
Age, which though far inferior to what others af-
fert they are able to perform, would ftill be of the
utmoft Benefit to Mankind, if with Facility it
could be carried into Pra&ice.
I know very well it may, and I doubt not but
it will be objected, if Hermippus was fo wife a
Man, why inftead of drawing old Age to fuch a
Length, did he not preferve the Vigour of his
Youth? this furely would have been by far a nobler
Difcovery, and to which the young Ladies would
with the greateft Readinefs have contributed. But
I mult put fuch People as thefe in mind, that as
in this Treatife I have inferted nothing which
may not be fome way or other ferviceable, either
to the InftruCtion or Entertainment of Mankind,
fo I fhall not think myfelf at all obliged to take
Notice of any ludicrous Reflections. The Pre-
fervation of Life, the defending the human Body
from decay, and of rendering it a fit Tenement
for the Soul to inhabit, in that Seafon in which
fhe is moft capable of exerting her nobleft Fa­
culties, are grave and ferious Subjects; with which
no trivial Matters ought to mingle. Befides, to
fpeak my Opinion freely, though I think the Me­
thod of Hermippus extreamly proper for repairing
the Waftes of Nature, and preventing the Incom-
T 2 modities
I INTERNET ARCHIVE
Digitized by Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
[ !4 8 ]
modities which ufually attend on Years; yet I am
far from believing, that this Method would con­
tribute at all to the Extention of Youth, but rather
the contrary; and for this I think, I am able to
offer fome very probable Reafons.
I n the firft Place, it will be neceffary to ob­
serve, that I do not here mean by Youth, a ftate
of Infancy or Childhood, but rather that robuft
State between twenty-five and forty; for the Con­
vention of very young People with each other,
I conceive to be as wholefome for their Bodies, as
it is pleafant and agreeable to their Minds. But
when the human Body is arrived at its full
Strength, and is in that State of Health in which
Temperance and Equanimity will maintain it, a
Surcharge of animal Spirits may not only prove
ufelefs, but dangerous. It is an old, and a very
true Obfcrvation, that the moft florid State of
Health, is that, in wT
hich a Man is in the greateft
Peril, in cafe he receives any Infedlion, and the
Reafon is obvious, viz. becaufe the animal Spirits
a£t then with the utmoft Vigour, and confequently
muft do the more Mifchief, if by any means they
are tainted. From the fame Method of Reafon-
ing, we may conclude, that fuch a Manner of Liv­
ing as that which we have fuppofed Hermippus led,
might be attended with inconveniencies to a Man
of a robuft Conftitution, and perhaps, incline him
to Frenzies, or at leaft to Fevers. A pure Air,
light
Digitized by Original from
INTERNET ARCHIVE . THE GETTY RESEARCH INST
[ T45> 1
light Diet, moderate Exercife, and a perfect Do­
minion over his Paffions, with a few flight Re­
medies taken on proper Occafions, and according
as Nature dire&s, may maintain a Man in the
full Pofieflion of Health and Spirits to fixty, and
then it is Time enough for him to think of avoid-
9
ing the Inconveniencies which ufually attend old
Age. I might alfo obferve, that the Converiation
of many young Women, might, in the Summer
of Life, draw along with it other Inconveniencies ;
but thefe are Subjects on which I do not chufe to
inflft, becaufe it is not eafy to treat them with that
Delicacy, which a Philofophic Difcourfe like this,
requires ; and becaufe the flighted Hint is fufflcient
to fuggeft more to a Man of good Senfe, than is
at all neceflary to be delivered upon this Subject.
I take it therefore for granted, that I have ai-
flgned the proper Bounds to my Remedy, and that
I may fafely define it, the Cordial of advanced
Years, which can never be fafely adminiftered, till
from ajuft Application of Reafon, there has been
produced an ablolute retreat of Appetite n.
But if any one fhould be mad enough to pur-
fue this Objection further, and cry out, of what
Significancy then is your Remedy ? why in fuch a
Situation would you extend Life at all, or of what
ufe is Years when deprived of Enjoyments? If I
fay
c Cicer. de Sencdute.
Digifized by Original from
INTERNET ARCHIVE THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
[ '50 ]
liiy there are any fo wild as to talk in this Manner,
my Anfwer is, that they miftake my meaning.
I am clearly of Opinion, that the Pleafures of the
Mind are far fuperior to all fenfual Delights, and
that the Cultivating youthful Underftandings,
which is the Bufinefs in which I have fuppofed my
old Man employed, is a pleafont and noble under­
taking, every way worthy of the Souls fupream-
eft Faculties, and carrying along with it, its
own Reward, viz. afecond Youth, more pleafing,
more delightful, than the firft. For as on the
one hand, I cannot allow that fuch a Perfon fhould
gratify, or fo much as feel his Pafiions, fo on the
other, I would not have him plunged into deep
and perplexing Studies, but rather amufed and di­
verted by purl'uits of another Nature. At parti­
cular Sealons, indeed, he might difcourfe with his
Friends on grave and ferious Topics ; but I would
not have fuch Conventions return too frequently,
for fear of their leading him by Degrees into Me-
lancholly, which is nothing elfe but fixing the
Thoughts too intently on a fingle Objedt. In
4
order to require and maintain a green old Age,
there is nothing fo requifite as Chearfulnefs of Mind,
which can never be fecured if we meditate much
on abftrufe Subjects. I do not fay, that thefe are
always to be ncgledted *
, but what I fay is, that this
is not the Seafon of Life in which they ought to be
purfued. They require fuch Vigour, fuch Atten­
tion,
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH IN
S
T
I
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
[ «5 J ]
tion, and filch a degree of Penetration, as would in­
duce fo great a wafte of Spirits as would defeat the
intention of that Remedy, which I would recom­
mend, and therefore I lay it down as a fupple-
mental Rule, that thefe are to be avoided.
T here is, as far as my Forefight will carry
me, but one Objection more, that can be raifed
againft my Syftem *
, and this mull come from the
Quarter of the Politicians, who conceive nothing
to be right or worthy of Encouragement, which
does not fquare with their Notions, which are,
however, generally fpeaking, not very agreeable
to thofe of other Men. It would not therefore
furprize me, if thefe Gentlemen fhould take it into
their Heads, to treat this as a Whimfical and
trifHing Performance, becaufe I know that accord­
ing to their Syftem, old Men are fo many Incum­
brances, of which, the State ought to be difcharg’d.
It is upon this Principle I prelume, that fome
Indian Nations make great Feafts in their Families,
when their Chief becomes decripid, and when
thefe Rejoicings are over, fairly put him out of
the Way °. Our Free-thinkers in Politics there­
fore.
° I remember to have read in a late French Writer, that
this is pra&ifed by fome of the barbarous Nations, who live
in the Neighbourhood of Hudfon’s Bay ; and he fays lurcher,
that he was prefent at one of thefe Fealts, at the Clofe of
which, the Son cut the Throat of his Father. I do not re­
collect, that he bellows any ReheCtions upon this Palfoge ;
but from the Account he has given us of the Country, I think
it
r *5* ]
fore, muft necefiarily have a bad Opinion (at leaft
while they are young) of fuch a Proportion as
this, which intends no more than prolonging the
Lives of thofe, who, in the Account of our
Machiavelijis, ought to be in their Graves already.
What Benefit, fay they, can refult to Society from
maintaining People paft their Labours, and who,
according to this very Scheme, are declared unfit
for Propagation ? The Public is only benefited by
aCtive and induftrious Perfons, why then fhould
fo much Care be taken to preferve People fit only
for a fedentary Life ? If the ordinary Laws of Na­
ture can be difpenfed with, let it be in Favour of
the Public Weal, why fhould the extravagant
Defire of Life be gratified, rather than any other
extravagant Defire whatever? Reflections like
thefe, it is evident, muft induce thefe over-wife
Perfons to treat my Book with Contempt, what­
ever Opinion they may have of the Arguments
contained in i t ; and therefore it is neceflary for
me to fliew, that thefe Maxims, how plaufible,
how refined foever they may appear, are very far
from
it no difficult Matter to diftinguiffi the Caufe of fo inhuman (I
fhould be in the wrong to call it fo brutal) a Cuftom, which I
take to be this, that they find it very difficult in that part of
the World to acquire Subfifiance, and therefore think them-
felves under a kind of Neceffity of maintaining only fuch as
are ufcful. This, 1 perfuade myfelf, was the Original of fo
horrid a Pradlice, which cannot, however, be founded on real
Neceffity, becaufe thefe People who murder their Parents,
preferve their Children, though equally helplefs.
Digitized by Original from
INTERNET ARCHIVE THE GETTY RESEARCH INST§
[ *53 ]
from being either jult or realonable, and which is
ftill of greater Weight in the prefent Cafe, ai*e
far from being calculated for the Benefit of Man­
kind in general p.
I t is, I think, a Fadl fo well eftablifhed, that
I need be at no great Pains to prove it, that
moll of the Mifchiefs and Miferies broughr upon
private Families, and even upon whole Nations,
flow from the Warmth of Mens Pafiions, and
from their indulging their irregular Inclinations at
the Expence of others, nay and of Society it-
felf. I cannot, therefore, help thinking, that it
might be a means of leflening thefe Evils, if
p It may be, perhaps, thought I exaggerate a little in
fuppofing, that there are People capable ot reafoning in fuch
a Manner; but, whoever conliders the Principles of the Spar­
tan Government, and the Syllem of Morals, recommended by
Lycurgus, will be of another Opinion. Neither are we to
imagine, that only fevere Politicians are inclined to fuch a
Dodtrine ; there have been in all Ages fome polite Writers,
and refined Wits, who have been inclined to treat old Age,
not as a Misfortune only, but as a Crime. For Inftance, Cor­
nelius Gallus, one of the Favourites of Auguftus, and himfelf
the Patron of Virgil, and of Horace, paints old Age thus.
Stat dubius tremulufq; fenex, femperq; malorum
Credulus et Stultus quae facit iple timet.
Laudat prxteritos, prefentes defpicit annos:
Hoc tantum in redlum quod facit ipfe putat.
Trembling and Doubtful, ftill the Old we find.
And much to Credit all ill News inclin’d ;
Foolilhly fearful of what e’re they do,
And when it’s done, they’re apprehenfive too.
Pafs’d times their Praife, the prefent claim their Spighf.
And only what they do thcmfelves is Right.
u we
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
[ IJ4 3
we could encreafe the Number of thofe who are
free from fuch irregular and depraved Appetites,
and are confequently mod capable of conducing
with Judgment and Integrity, either public or
private Affairs. It is remarkable, that in all
well-governed States, a certain maturity of Age
is required before Men are entrufted, not only
with the Management of public Concerns, but of
their own. Upon what Reafon then is this found­
ed ? Is it not becaufe they are thought to want in
the firft Place, the Lights of Experience, and in
the next, to be too much hurried by their Pafiions ?
If this be right, and if it be not right, the wifeft
Men in all Ages have been in the wrong: If this
I fay be right, why fhould we fancy Men pal's’d
their Labours; for being in pofTeffion of thofe
Qualities which are certainly the firft Ingredients
in the conftituting true Wifdom ? There will be
always People enough in the World full of that
Heat, Vigour, and Strength, which is requifite for
carrying on the a<
5
tive and laborious Parts of Bu-
finefs ; but we fee plainly, that private Families
are brought to Ruin, and by Degrees, great States
decay for want of that Moderation, Experience,
and Forefight, of which, Men far in Years, and
whofe Spirits are not opprefifed with the Infirmities
of Age, are ufually poffefTed. If, therefore, we
regard the Eafe and Happinefs of Mankind, rather
than Hurry and Noife, and efteem fuch a Govern­
ment
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
dhginal from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTi ,TE
[ *JS]
ment as preferves its Subje&s in the conftant En­
joyment of thefe Blefiings, better than that which
employs them at the Expence of their own Eafe
and Happineis, in difturbing thofe of their Neigh­
bours, then there can be no Weight in this part
of the Objection. As to what refpedts Generation,
it is a very (light and idle Surmife *
, for if in Po-
pifh Countries Monafteries are found no great In­
convenience, where thofe that (ill them make
Vows of Celebacy in the Flower of their Age,
certainly for Men who are turned of Seventy to
forbear getting Children, can never be an Incon­
venience to any State.
T hi s is undoubtedly a fufficient Anfwer as to the
general Reafoning of thofe I would refute; but
with Refpeft to the Do&rine I have endeavoured
to eftablifti, a dill clearer and more explicit An­
fwer might be given. For without enquiring
whether their Principles be wrong or right, I may
.eafily obferve, that nothing I have laid down tends
to burthen Society with a Race of Dotards. What
I propofe, is quite the contrary. If, on the one
Hand, I plead for the Extention of human Life,
I recommend on the other, fuch a Method as mud
preferve the Faculties in the higheft Order. Nor
is it to be at all apprehended, that the Number
of Men who (hall prolong their Lives by this Me­
thod, in cafe it (hould be ever carried into Pra&ice,
will be excedive, or burthenfome to Society, the
U 2 very
• Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
' Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
[ IJS ]
very Nature of it provides againfl: any fuch In­
convenience, by requiring fuch Moderation and
Self-denial, as will not frequently be found. It
is, therefore, an unjuft and unfair Imputation up­
on my Principles, that they tend to burthen the
World with ufelefs People, fince the utmoft to
which they can be drained is, that I am for pre-
ferving as long as polTible, the Lives of fuch as
may be ufeful. As to the Subfiftance again of
fuch People, it is eafy to difcern, that this can be
but a very trifling Expence, when compared even
with what they are able to acquire towards the
Increafe of the common Stock. So, that con-
fidered in this, which is the very word Light
in which the Thing can be put, a true Politician,
and one who has a proper Regard for the Intered,
and at the fame Time, a juft refpeft for the Rights
of Mankind, will be far from thinking that I
have offered any Thing which can be prejudicial
to a well-ordered Society, but have rather pro­
vided a very good Method for fecuring a condant
Supply of fuch Counfello/s, as may preferve it
in the bed Order poflible.
O n this Occaflon, I beg leave to cite a Paflage
which Tiilly hath put into the Mouth of the elder
Cato% thatdeferves as much Attention from its
Solidity, and good Senfe, as it does Praife for the
Beauty
n • Ciccr. de Seneftute. c. ii.
Digithze : by Original from
INTERNET ARCHIVE THE GETTY RESEARCH IN S T | PTE
[ \5 7 ]
Beauty and Accuracy of Stile, in which it is deli­
vered. C
<
*to is there anfwering the very Objec­
tion, which I have been treating. “ If, fays hey
“ Petulence or Lull be Vices more frequent among
“ young Men than Old, yet all young Men are
“ not infe6ted with them, but fuch only as want
“ proper Talents, fo it is with that fort of Diftem-
“ per which you call Dotage, it is indeed the
“ Difeafe of old Men *
, but, however, all old Men
“ are not infe<5
ted with it. Appius was for fome
“ Years quite dark, and yet he managed a Family
4t of four Sons grown up, and five Daughters,
tc with abundance of Relations and Clients, who
* depended upon him. He kept his Mind always
“ in order, and though his Vigour decayed, yet
<
c his Senfes never failed him. He preferved to
<
£ the laft Moment his Character, and his Au-
“ thority every body looked up towards him as
“ became their Station •
, his Slaves feared, his
“ Children revered, and all who were about him,
1
4 Loved him. In a Word, he kept up the old
4
4 Difcipline, and did Honour to the RomanName,
“ by preferving the Manners of his Family un-
“ tainted. So that it is plain, old Age may
“ maintain a graceful Superiority, ifit bejealous of
“ its Prerogative *
, if on all Occafions it maintains
“ its right, if it never fneaks and gives way, but
“ keeps up a Manly Spirit to the laft. For as
ct I approve fome Qualities of Age in a young
Man,
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITI TE
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
[ 'iS ] 1
4
4 Man, To a Youthful Spirit is very commendable
44 in Men of Years, for while they preferve this,
“ though the Body may feel the effe&s of Age,
4
4 yet the Mind ftands out of its reach. At this
4
4 very Inftant I am employed in writing the Se-
“ ventb Book of my Antiquities, and am actually
44 making large Collections from fuch old Records,
44 as may ferve my purpofe. I likewife, Review,
“ and fometimes touch a frefh, the Orations I have
“ formerly made in the capital Caufes, wherein I
44 have been concerned : I ftill keep up my Stock of
44 knowlege in the Augurial, Pontifical, and Civil
44 Law, and have time enough to read a great
44 deal of Greek befides. I conftantly ufe the Py-
44 thagorean Method for the Exercife of my Me-
<
4 mory, and every Evening run over in my Mind,
4
4 whatever I have faid, heard or done that Day.
44 Thefe are the Exercifes of the Underftanding,
44 and in thefe, as in a Chariot, the Soul takes the
44 Air, while I am capable of thefe, I don’t
‘4 give myfelf much concern about bodily Decays,
4
4 I am always at the Command of my Friends,
4
4 attend the Service of the Houfe frequently, and
44 diftinguilh myfelf in Debates, wherein a Man
44 compafies more by the flrength of his Facul-
4
4 ties, than he can do ellewhere, by Force of
4
4 Arms. But fliould it ever prove my Misfor-
4
4 tune to be confined to my Bed, and be thereby
4
4 rendered incapable of going through thefe Em-
44 ployments.
Digitized by oYiginal from
INTERNET ARCHIVE THE GETTY RESEARCH INST ^ fTE
[ l 59 1
5‘ ployments, yet the very thoughts of what I
“ would do, if I were able, would confole me.
But thanks be to Heaven, I have no reafon to
“ apprehend any fuch Thing, I have been abetter
“ Hufband of my Time than fo, for let a Man
“ be butconftantly exercifed in Labours like thefe,
•* and he will not fo foon find the Breaches of Age.
,e Years will fteal upon him infenfibly, he will
<
c grow old by Degrees and without feeling it;
“ nay, when he comes to break at laft, the Houle
“ will crumble gently, and fall down fo (lowly,
as not to give him any great Pain” . This is
a very fine Picture, and contains a more finifhed
Apology for that {fate of Life which I am endea­
vouring to extend, than my Abilities would luffer
me to draw, but the very producing it, ferves my
purpofe better than if I had wrote it. If I follow
the Sentiments of Cicero, and the Example of Cato
the Elder, who fhall queftion either my Senfe, or
my ConduCt ?
I t ought to be further confidered, that for per­
fecting many of the Sciences, a longer Life is
requifite than Men ufually enjoy ; or to fpeak with
greater Propriety, the free Exercife of their Facul­
ties to a more advanced Age. If we examine all the
Improvements that have been made in true Science,
we fhall find, that they have proceeded from Men,
who have exercifed their Thoughts in fuch kind
of Studies for a long Courfe of Years. The laft
Books
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
• C Ifo ]
Books of Arijlotle, are efteemed the mod pcrfeCt,
fo are thofe of Seneca, which he wrote in an ad­
vanced Age *
, and we may fay the fame Thing
with requeft to modern Philofophers *
, fuch as
Gajfendi, Bacon, and Newton. A ferene old Age is
therefore of the higheft Confeqnence in this Re-
fpeCt, fince it would contribute to furnifli the
World with new and uleful Lights, and prevent
the Expectations they conceive from the early
Productions of great Men, from being fruftrated
as they frequently are, by their premature Deaths.
I muft likewife obferve, that mechanical Inventi­
ons acquire much Time to PcrfeCt them, and that
very profitable Dilcoveries, and very ufeful Ma­
nufactures have been loft, by the Deaths of thofe
who firft Cultivated them, of which many Inftan-
ces might be given. We may likewife remark,
that fettling any new Plantation *
, reforming a So­
ciety ; or in fhort, reducing any People who have
been long under an ill form of Government, or
in a great mealure without any, requires length of
Days. Lewis XIV. changed entirely the Face of
Things in France during his Reign, which was
principally owing to the length of it, as it gave
him an opportunity of feeing molt of his Schemes
brought to bear ; whereas, the unexpected Death
of the Great Czar Peter, caul'ed many of his Pro­
jects to be buried in Oblivion, and mult have over­
turned the whole of his Glorious defign for re­
forming
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
Original fror'
THE GETTY RESEARCI TE
[ 1(0 ]
Forming his Subjects, and raifing the Credit of his
Crown, with the reft of the European Powers •
, if,
which was fcarce to be expected, his Succeflors had
not generally fpeaking, perfifted in the purfuit of
his Plan. We may therefore eafily difcern, that
fuch an extention of Life as this Treatife propo-
fes, would be fo far from contributing to burthen
the World with an ufelefs race of old Men, that
it would really furnifh it with fuch People, as are
moft wanted for the Improvement of Knowlege,
the perfecting mechanical Difcoveries, and contri­
buting in other RelpeCts, to the Welfare of Man­
kind.
U p o n the whole, therefore, I think I may
very juftly conclude, that by examining this
antient Infcription, I have not only exercifed my
Thoughts in a Manner that may contribute to
the Amufement of the Learned *
, but that I have
hinted many Things which may be of public
Utility. In this RefpeCf, indeed, I think, I
have made the proper Ufe of the Infcription;
for certainly, it is much better to inform our-
felves as to Things than Words, and the World
would be much more indebted to the Labours of
learned Men, if they would pay that Regard to this
Maxim which it deferves. What Ufe would
it be of to Mankind, fuppofing it poftible for
me to fix the Reign of the Roman Emperor,
under which Hermippus flourifhed ? or what
X Thanks
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
[ iS a ]
Thanks would my Readers owe me, if I had en­
deavoured to difcufs whether he lived to hundred
and fifty-five, or a hundred and fifteen only. Have
I not chofen the better Part, in examining what
may ftill be of fome Ufe, viz. By what Method
he arrived at fo great an Age, and how far it is
practicable for us to follow his Method. I think,
I may go ftill farther, and affirm, that I have
made it at leaft extreamly probable, that the An-
helitus Puellamm, is in fome Meafure the Breath
of Life •
, in order to which, I hope I have effec­
tually deftroyed fome Prejudices that affeCted the
Minds even of People of good Senfe, as to the
fettled Term of human Life, and the Impoffibility
of prolonging it by Art. I have likewife, in the
Courfe of this Differtation, collected the Senti­
ments of feveral great Men, who think, or lead
feem to me, to think in the fame Way that I do,
and have thereby given an Opportunity to the
curious and inquifitive Reader, of fearching more
ftriCtly into their Opinions, in order to do them
Juftice, in cafe, after mature Confideration, he
thinks that I have failed in fo doing.
I f this fhould contribute little to the Elucida­
tion of the prefent Point, yet it might prove the
Means of bringing many Things of Confequence
to light. We have made it evident, by our Cita­
tions from old Books, that many of the Dilcove-
ries for which the Moderns are famous, were actu­
ally
Digitized by Original from
INTERNET ARCHIVE THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTI JTE
[ i ]
ally known to the Learned in former Times;
whence we may [ cbably conje&ure, that fome
other Things were know to them, with which
we are not acquainted, and the rather, becaufe
there is force anv Country where antient Monu­
m ent are to be touiid, but we may diicern in them
Marks of Skill and Capacity, that tranfcend the
Power of modern Workmen, and though thefe
may not be agreeable to the prefent Tafte which
feems to be a handfome Exprefiion for the reign­
ing Humour of Mankind, that changes too
often to deferve the Name of a Rule, yet they {till
manifeft great quicknefs of Invention, and the pof-
felfion of many Arts, that are now loft. It is fome
Credit to Antiquity, that the oldeft building in
the World, which is the Temple of P’
hefeus at
Athens, is by far the fineft; and in literature again,
Homer and Hippocrates, plainly prove, that in
point of Genius, or of Induftry, the firft Ages
are yet unrival’d. There are fcveraJ Roads which
lead to true Wifdom, we may fometimes reach it
by going backwards, as well as forwards, and pro­
fit as much be detecting the Prejudices of the
Moderns, as by refuting the Errors of Antiquity.
It is a juft Obfervation of the great Lord Verulam,
that much Learning frees us from thofe Miftakes
into which we are plunged, by having only a lit­
tle. When firft the Moderns began to examine
the Writings of Herodotus, and Pliny, they found
X 2 nothing
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
Original from
THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITL TE
t 1 6 4 ]
nothing but Abfurdities and Improbabilies; but
now, that we are better acquainted with Experi­
mental Philofophy, we begin to have a better opi­
nion of thefe Authors, and are obliged to confefs,
that in fome Cafes, fagacity may fupply Expe­
rience. I am, however, ready to admit, that in
fome Branches of Science, we have out done the
Antients very much; but what of that, we are
ftill far fhort of Perfection. Our very Difcoveries
prove i t ; for example, we difcern the Effects of
Gravity, we fee the whole Mechanifm of the Uni-
verfe, depend upon i t ; but the Caufe has been hi­
therto inexplicable. We are well acquainted with the
many properties of the Needle, which were Secrets
to former Times, but the caufe of its Variation re­
mains a Secret to us. We have, indeed, made fome
bold Gueffes at both, and it is not impoflible, that
Pofterity may be able to demonftrate our Conjec­
tures ; as it is on the other Hand, likewife pof-
ftble, that they may prove them to be only idle
Conjectures. If we would avoid being deceived,
we mult decline Bigottry of all Sorts, we mull not
carry our Veneration for the Antients too far, and
at the fame Time, we ought not to be afraid of
ufing a juft Freedom with the Moderns; fince it
is not our Bufinefs to admire others, but to inftruCt
ourfelves.
W ith the fame View of coming at Truth, by
letting the Subject of which I treat in different
Lights,
Digitized by Original from
INTERNET ARCHIVE THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTI
4
I
JTE
[ «65 ]
Lights, I have ftated the Opinions of others fairly,
and have reafoned upon them as freely as I defire
to fee my own Syftem treated. I have given the
Reader the Sentiments of Aftrologers, and of
Hermetic Philofophers on this Infcription, and
have left it to him to decide, whether they are
more in the right than I, or whether we may not
be all miftaken, and this Infcription have at laft
fome other Secret, and yet more probable Senfe than
any of us have reached. To encourage, an ex-
aft Difcuflion of this, I have often inculcated the
Ufefulnefs of fuch an Enquiry, and I think, have
fully proved without the Poffibility of a Reply,
that as it is very practicable to extend the Thread
of Life, beyond that length to which it ufually
reaches, fo this will be a real Benefit, and not an
idle, or trifling Difcovery. Thefe are the princi­
pal Points that I have laboured, and to avoid that
heavinefs and drynefs which is commonly com­
plained of, in Difcourfes of this kind: I have fre­
quently made Excurfions for the Entertainment of
myfelf and my Readers, and have inferted abun­
dance of curious Pafiages from fcarce and valuable
Books, that I hope will make full amends for the
trouble of perufing this Treadle, even to fuch as
may remain unconvinced of the Truth, or practi­
cability of my Syftem. At leaft, I can fay this
for my Book and for myfelf, that nothing has been
omitted within the Reach of my P ----- ~ u:~u
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE
[ i 6 6 ] -
might render it at once both profitable and plea-
fant-, and therefore, I hope, that if any one fhall
take the Trouble of Criticifing it, he willatleaft
treat it with that Candour and good Manners
which I have ufcd through the whole, and not
with that fjrly and pedantic Peevifhnefs which is
too often vifible in the Works of Minor Critics,
who value themfelves much more on expofing the
Faults of other Men, than on manifefting any
valuable Qualities in themfelves, and are better
pleafed to deftroy an Edifice ere&ed by another,
than to acquire a juft Reputation, by raifing a
better Structure of their own.
T h e r e is one Thing more I muff remark,
and it is this, that my Syftem is entirely on the
right Side: I have not undertaken to demonftrate
as many have done, a Paradox in the Teeth of
common Senfe, and the common Interefl of the
human Species, of which the famous Encomium
on Folly, and the Panegyric on Drunkennefs, are
glaring Inftances ; but what I have laid down in
this Dilcourfe is, with a View to public Utility,
and from a defire of doing Good; if therefore,
upon throughly fifting this Difpute, the Matter
fhould come at laft to be in Equilibrio, I hope the
turn of the Scales will be allowed me ; for furely,
if Senfe be preferable to Dotage, Eafe to Pain,
or Life to Death, I have a fair Title to this Fa­
vour. I would not be underftood, to intereft by
this
Digitized by . Original from
INTERNET ARCHIVE THE GETTY RESEARCH INS^i ^TE
[ i<$7 1
this Means, the Inclinations or Prejudices of my
Readers, on my Side, for that might prove Detri-
fecure me againft the Effe&s of a Petulant H u­
mour, which reigns but too much in the World, of
diHiking whatever has the appearance of Novelty,
and fuppofing, that there is fomething equally Juft
and Wife, in maintaining old Opinions againft New,
and in running down any Syftem upon its firft Ap­
pearance. Againft this unequitable Prepoffeffion,
in favour of Antique Notions, I fet up this Claim
to the good Will of Men, founded on the Benefits
refulting from my Syftem, to the human Species,
either confidered as Individuals or in Society. It
was upon the fame Principle, that the late Dr.
Harvey, eftablifhed his Do&rine of the Circulation
of the Blood, which he juftly obferved, would
Exempt the Art of Phyfic from many Reproaches,
and enable us to give a clearer and more rational
Account of the Animal Oeconomy. On this
Bafis too, (lands the Philofophy of Sir Ifaac New-
ton, which is perhaps the nobleft Effort of the
human Underftanding. I do not mean by this, to
compare my Invention with theirs, or myfelf to
either of thofe great Men. All I aim at is, to
(hew, that the greateft Men have had need of In­
dulgence, when they propounded new Syftems *
,
whence I infer, that iuch a defire cannot be thought
mental to Truth ; but I introduce this remark, to
either
[ ]
either unjuft or unrealonable, in the leaft, as I rea*
dily own myfelf to be.
H ere, then, let me reft this Affair, and after
taking fo much Pains to render this Work not al-
together unworthy the View of the Public, or the
Eye of equal and impartial Judges, I refign it freely
to their Confideration, and depend upon their Can­
dour and Humanity for the kind Acceptance of my
Labours.
f i n i s :
Digitized by
INTERNET ARCHIVE THE GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
Original from
