{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research 5826 3426 4717","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_proceedings_v2_28_may_1884.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V2 May 28 1884","mylang":"de"}
152 Pl'esitlent'8 .A.ddre88. [Yay 28,
III.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE GENERAL MEETING ON
May 28, 1884.
The eighth General Meeting of the Society was held at the Garden
Mansion, Queen Anne's Mansions, S.W., on Wednesday, May 28, 1884.
PROFESSOR HENRY SIDGWICK, PRESIDENT, IN THE CHAIR.
The following address was delivered by the President :-
The last time that I addressed you at any length I endeavoured to
define the nature and grounds of our claim that we are investigating in
a. scientific manner phenomena which in the recent progress of physical
science have been too long and too persistently neglected. Since then,
in consequence of an article which has appeared in the Nineteenth Oentury
by two of my colleagues, and of a lecture which I was expressly asked
to deliver on this subject at the London Institution, some discussion of
our work from this point of view has been carried on in journals that
are for the most part hostile to our endeavour; and it appears that I
might with advantage take up again the subject that I dealt with about
a year ago, and make one or two more remarks on our general scientifi~
position. In so doing I have no intention of occupying your time by
any comments on the misrepresentations of fact or the blunders in logic
which our opponents have committed: our aim, in my opinion, should
rather be to consider whether we can learn anything from our critics-
even from ignorant and prejudiced critics-which may assist us in the
novel and difficult work in which we are engaged. We may at any rate
see "Vhat appear to the careless glance of outsiders to be the weak points
of our position, and give them a careful reconsideration.
The first point that it is important to get clear is the exact relation
in which the conclusion that we have, to our own satisfaction, established,
stands to the generally accepted conclusions of physical science. Is it
true, as an opponent has asserted, that if Thought-transference, as
affirmed by our Committee, were admitted to be a fact, "physiology
would be overthrown" 1 The statement might pass as a loose and hasty
way of characterising the extreme strangeness of our results; but I
cannot conceive its being deliberately maintained by anyone actually
'locquainted with physiological investigation. An instructed physiologist
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] President's Addrcss. 153
would know that supposing it generally accepted that ideas and feelings
can under certain special and rare conditions be conveyed from one mind
to another otherwise than by the recognised channels of sense, all ordinary
physiological research would go on exactly as before. No" working
hypothesis" of physiological method would have to be abandoned; no
established positive conclusion of physiological inquiry-nothing that
has been ascertained as to the nature of the process by which visual,
auditory, tactile, or other sensations and ideas are ordinarily produced
in the mind-would have to be modified. What would have to be
given up would be merely the single negative conclusion that ideas and
sensations could not be transmitted from one mind to another except in
,certain ways already known. It was very natural for physiologists to
,form this conclusion provisionally in default of evidence to the contrary;
but to abandon it in view of the presentation of such evidence would
be 0. mere enlargement, not in any sense an overthrow of existing
physiology.
I The question, then, is merely whether evidence enough has been
produced. And here I have always admitted, and indeed emphatically
maintained, that what we allege to be facts are so contrary to the
analogy of experience-atleast so far as experience has been systematised
by science-that until a large number of mutually corroborative
,testimonies are collected we cannot expect the scientific world to be
converted; they will say, and reasonably or at least plausibly say, that
it is less improbable that the testimony to these facts should be false
than that the facts as testified to should be real. And I think that the
case is one in which no one can say exactly how much evidence is.
wanted; we have to balance conflicting improbabilities; and the
improbabilities are of 0. kind that we have no scales to weigh exactly.
Indeed the improbability on one side necessarily appears greater or less
to different persons, according to what they know of the witnesses
personally. Hence though I am myself convinced of the trustworthiness
of our records of experiments, I do not complain that other persons who
do not know the witnesses are not yet convinced. And I have always
been anxious to urge on our members and friends-many of whom are
rather inclined to think that we have already collected facts enough to
convince 0. "fair mind"-that we cannot precisely define the requirements
of 0. fair mind in dealing with matters so unfamiliar; and that we ought
to continue patiently piling up facts and varying the observers ancl
conditions, until we actually get the common sense of educated persons
clearly on our side.
At the same time, I am obliged to add that none of our critics
appear to me to appreciate the kind and degree of evidence that we have
already obtained. They often imply that the experiments in Thought-
transference are such as could be performed by "cheating mediums or
Digitized by Coogle
154 Pre8ident'8 Addre88. [May 28,
mesmerists," by the simple means of a code of signals which the
investigating committee cannot find out; quite ignoring such cases as
that given in Part l., pp. 22-3, where the cards guessed by one of the
'Creerys were unknown to anyone but the four strangers who went to
witness the experiment; and where, therefqre, as I have before said, the
investigators must either have been idiots, or one or other of them in
the trick. Similar remarks may be made about the experiments
-reported in the last part of our Proceedings; where four or five different
persons must either have been guilty of unveracity or collusion, or of
most abnormal stupidity, if the phenomena. were not genuine.
Again, our opponents leave out of account that besides our own
experiments in 'Thought-transference between persons in a normal
condition, and the records of spontaneous telepathic phenomena,
•• apparitions, &c.,"--of which we have collected a very large number
on first-hand evidence-we have the experiments in Thought-transference
in the mesmeric state, in which we have only obtained over again
results repeatedly affirmed by others. And here I think we may put
forward an irresistible claim that this mesmeric evidence of a generation
ago, which undoubtedly failed to satisfy orthdox medical opinion at the
time, should be carefully reconsidered; the ground of our claim being
the now universally admitted fact that in the controversy which took
place from 1840 to 1850 between the mesmerists and the accredited
organs of medical opinion, the latter were undoubtedly to a great
extent wrong; that they repudiated sweepingly an important part
of the phenomena reported by the mesmerists, which no instructed
person now denies to be genuine. No instructed person now questions
the genuine reality of the hypnotic or sleep-waking state as a special
abnormal condition of the human organism, in which the hypnotised
person is, in a quite peculiar way, subject to delusions suggested to
him from without, and can in some cases be made as perfectly insensible
to pain as he can by inhaling chloroform or laughing gas. But at the
time I speak of the Lancet and other medical organs refused to admit
the genuineness of these phenomena, as decidedly as any of them now
refuses to admit the reality of community of sensation. When the
most painful surgical operations were successfully performed in the
hypnotic state, they said that the patients were bribed to sham
insensibility; and that it was because they were hardened impostors
that they let their legs be cut off and large tumours cut out without
showing a sign even of discomfort. At length this unbelief, in all
but the most bigoted partisans, gave way before the triumphant success
of Mr. Esdaile's surgical operations under mesmerism in the Calcutta
Hospital: and hence, when subsequently a German professor (Heiden-
hain) reported that he had obtained results similar to Braid's,-which
had been previously neglected,--orthodox medical science willingly
Digitized by Coogle
1884.J Pl'eszaent's Addres8. 155
allowed the hypnotic state to take a recognised place in physiological
works. The existence, indeed, of a peculiar rapport between the
mesmeriser and his patient-such as the transference of sensation
manifests-has still the weight of medical authority against it; but
this weight is surely diminished by the fact that it was so long and
obstinately thrown into the wrong scale as regards the hypnotic state
generally.
When confronted with this mass of testimonies, the argument of our
opponents sometimes takes a new turn. They say that our very
demand for quantity of evidence shows that we know the quality of
each item to be bad. But the quality of much of our evidence-when
-considered apart from the strangeness of the matters to which it refers
-is not bad, but very good: it is such that one or two items of it
-would be held to establish the occurrence, at any particular time and
place, of any phenomenon whose existence was generally accepted.
Since, however, on this subject the best single testimony only yields an
improbability of the testimony being false that is outweighed by the
improbability of the fact being true, the only way to make the scale
fallon the side of the testimony is to increase the quantity. If the
testimony were not good, this increase of quantity would be of little
value; but if it is such that the supposition of its falsity requires us to
.attribute abnormal motiveless deceit, or abnormal stupidity or
carelessness, to a person hitherto reputed honest and intelligent, then an
increase in the number of cases in which such a supposition is required
adds importantly to the improbability of the general hypothesis. It is
.sometimes said by loose thinkers that the " moral factor" ought not to
-come in at all. But the least reflection shows that the moral factor
must come in in all the reasonings of experimental science, except for
those who have personally repeated all the experiments on which their
.conclusions are based. Anyone who accepts the report of the experi-
ments of another must rely not only on his intelligence but on his
honesty; only ordinarily his honesty is so completely assumed that the
assumption is not noticed.
Here, however, some say that we ought to get evidence that can be
repeated at will ; that they will not entertain the idea of "rare, fitful
and delicate" phenomena which cannot be reproduced at will in the
presence of any number of sceptics. But I have never seen any serious
attempt to justify this refusal on general principles of scientific method.
The phenomenon of Thought-trans£erence-assuming it to be genuine-
depends primtifacie on the establishment of a certain relation between
the nervous systems of the agent and percipient respectively; and as
the conditions of this relation are specifically unknown, it is to be
expected that they should be sometimes absent, sometimes present, in
.an inexplicable way; and, in particular, that this peculiar function
Digitized by Loo
156 P1:esident's Address.
of the brain should be easily disturbed by mental anxiety or discomfort.
of any kind.
Still we should be very glad to get evidence of this kind; we ought
to relax no effort to obtain it. And one special source of interest fo~
us in the marvels related by the Indian Theosophists-with whose
doctrines, I may remark, we are in no way concerned-lies in the fact.
that they are alleged to consist largely in the production at will of
" telepathic" phenomena; similar in kind to those of which, as
occurring spontaneously, a large collection has been made by our
Literary Committee.
(A provisional Report on some of these Indian cases was then laid
before the meeting.)
1884.] A Tkeo"l1 of Apparitioll8. 1[)7
IV.
FOURTH REPORT OF THE LITERARY OOMMITTEE.
Committee:-W. F. BARRETl', F.R.S.E.; CHAS. O. MAssEY; REV. W.
STAINTON MOSES, M.A.; F. PODMORE, M.A.; and EDMUND GURNEY,*
M.A., and F. W. H. MYERS,* M.A., Hon. 8ecs.
A THEORY OF APPARITIONS.
PART II.
OUR last Report-it may be remembered-brought us only to the
threshold of the subject of Apparitions, as popularly understood. In
that introductory paper we approa.ched our main theme by three
distinct steps. We first considered the general state of opinion with
respect to it, the apriori arguments and assumptions which tend to
preclude inquiry into it, and the method which we hold that the
inquiry ought to pursue. We then expla.ined that we intended to base
our own theory on an experimental basis, and to connect the striking
phenomena of death-wraiths with' quite humble and unemotional forms
of Thought-transference--embracing the whole set of fa.cts, large and
small, experimenta.1 and spontaneous, under the term "telepathy." And
finally we justified this interconnection of the phenomena., and showed
by examples that distinct effects-similar to those obtained in experi-
menta.1 Thought-tra.nsference-have been spontaneously produced on the
emotions, the will, the.senses, or the intellect of one person, by some
corresponding affection of another person at a distance.
But among effects produced on the senses, one particular cla.ss was
purposely deferred-that, namely, which concerns the sense of Bight.
It is this deferred class of telepathic disturbances that we have now
to consider. Among these we find undoubtedly the furthest and most
eccentric of the phenomena. which the telepathic theory can be made
to embrace; and our aooount of them will require that the theory, as so
far stated, should be somewhat expanded. But for all that, they will
not drive us from our old basis. We are about to treat visible appari-
tions as "transferred impressions." Viewed in this light, it will be
found that even the most sta.rtling of them are not without experimental
analogy; and that, moreover, we can lead up to these extreme cases by
quite gradual BtePB, starting from a point where the experimenta.l
analogies are perfectly obvious.
To begin with the commonest and simplest form of experiment-
N
Digitized by Coogle
158 A Tkeorg of Apparitiom. [Yay 28,
that where the impression of a card or number is transferred, without
sensory communication, from one mind to another. Here the percipient
sees the object" in his mind's eye," not as external to himself at all.
Now we find an exact parallel to this lowest grade of visualisation in
cases where the impression originates, not in the fact that the agent is
concentrating his attention on a card or number, but in the fact that he
is dying. Such a case is the following, given to us by Mr. Robert
Rawlinson, of Lansdowne Court West, Cheltenham.
1 was dressing one morning in December 1881, when a certain conviction
came upon me that some one waS in my dressing-room. On looking round
·1 saw no one; but then, instantaneously, in my mind's eye (I suppose), every
feature of the face and form of myoId friend William St&nley, of Ponsonby
Hall, CumberlaJid, arose. This, as you may imagine, made a great im-
pression on me, and 1 went at once into my wife's room and told her what
had occurred, at the same stating that 1 feared W. S. must be dead.. The
subject was mentioned between us several times that day. Next morning I
received a letter from George Stanley, then consul-general at Odessa, whom
1 did not know to be in England, saying that his brother had died at a
quarter before 9 o'clock that morning. This was the very time the oc-
(lurrence happened in my dressing-room. It is right to add that we had
heard some two months previously that W. S. was suffering from cancer, but
still we were in no immediate apprehension of his death.
Mrs. Rawlinson has kindly confirmed the fact of her husband's
.coming into her room, and describing his experience, at about a quarrer
to 9 on the morning in question. She adds that the name of W. S.
had not beenmentioned by anyone for weeks; and that her husband "is
-the last person to imagine anything, as he had always been particularly
unbelieving as to anything supernatural" *
In this case, the spontaneous picture--originating, as we hold, in
the condition of the dying friend-was not more definite and vivili than
-that which the unexcited mind of the mere experiti:tentalist has oftenbeen
.able to transmit. A very important point of difference does, no doubt,
·exist; for the spontaneous picture did not represent anything on
which the mind of the agent was at the moment concentrated; we can-
:not conceive him to have been gazing at his own face and form in a
mirror. This point, however, may be postponed till we have completed
·our sketch of the graduated stages in the process of visualisation.
In the following examples, the vision was not of a. single figure, but
-of a Bcene, vividly flashed upon the sense, and for the moment engrossing
the attention, but still rather inward than outward, and not in any way
·confounded with the objective world, or located in the actual place
where the percipient was at the sime.
• We cannot exclude this expressionwhen quoting the wordsof ourinformants.
We ourselves, of courBe, regard all these occurrences as strictly natwaZ.
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] A Theory of Apparitions. 159
The first case is from Miss Henrietta. Wilkinson, EnniscorthYt
Ireland.
I live in Ireland, my nephew in London. At the end of October or
beginning of November, 1881, when he was eight years old, he went one day
with his mother and sister to Kensington Gardens. While playing there he
had a severe fall on his back ; his mother had to call a cab and take him
home, then send for the doctor. He was very ill for three or four days,
lying in a dark room and kept perfectly quiet. The accident happened on a
Saturday, I think. On the Sunday his mother wrote to tell me of it, which
letter I received on Tuesday. On the Monday night I was in bed, dropping
()ft" to sleep, when I opened my eyes with a start, and saw quite distinctly a
London street, leading from Kensington Gardens to my nephew's home. All
the people, cabs, and horses were running very fast in one direction, towards
my sister's house. Amongst them were my sister and her two children, also
running. They stopped a cab, got in, and arrived at their own house. I
saw no more, but exclaimed, "Maurice is hurt;. I" why, I do not know, asmy
nephew looked all right in the street. It all seemed to come from outside
myself. I thought it very strange, and told it to my family next morning,
before my sister's letter arrived. I am not perfectly sure of the day of th"
week, but know it was the day after the accident:my sister wrote, and that
it was the night of the day after she wrote that I saw what I tell you.
I think it was my nephew's thoughts of me that gave me the vision, J
being the person he would think of, next to his father and mother.
Asked whether she had ever, on any other occasion, had a dream of
death or accident which had impressed her, she says :-
No, I remember none. It was quite unique. But why call it a dream,
when I was wide awake 7 Had it been a dream I don't think it would have
made the same impression on me.
The following corrobora.tion is from Miss Wilkinson's sister, Castle
Hill, Enniscorthy.
January 8,1884.
I distinctly remember my sister relating to us (myself and another sister)
ner vision or dream before she got any letter. It made a great impression on
her, and she told us with surprise and a little alarm. She told us on Tues-
day morning, and the letter telling of the accident arrived soon after.
MARmA WILXINSON.
The next account was sent to us by the Rev. A. Shaw Page, Vicar
of Selsley, Stonehouse, Gloucester, in the words of his sister, Miss
Millicent Anne Pa.ge. We have slightly shortened it.
I was staying with my mother's cousin, Mrs. Elizabeth Broughton, wife
()f Mr. Edward Broughton, Edinburgh, and daughter of the late Colonel
Blanckley, in the year 1844, and she told me the following strange story :-
She woke one night and roused her husband, telling him that something
dreadful had happened in France. He begged her to go to sleep again and
N 2
Digitized by Coogle
160 .A. Theory of Apparitions. [May 28,
not to trouble him. She assurecl him she was not asleep when she saw what
she insisted on then telling him-what she saw, in fact. First a carriage
accident, which she did not actually see, but what she saw was the result, a
broken carriage, a crowd collected, a :figure gently raised and carried into the
nearest house, and then a :6.gure lying on a bed, which she then recognised
as the Duke of Orleans. Gradually friends collecting. round the bed, among
them several members of the French Royal family-the Queen, then the
King-all silently, tearfully watching the evidently dying Duke. One man
(she could see his back, but did not know who who he was) was a doctor. He
stood bending over the Duke, feeling his pulse, his watch in his other hand.
And then all passed away: she saw no more. .As soon as it was daylight she
wrote down in her journal all she had seen. From that journal she read this.
to me. It was before the days of electric telegraph, and two or more days
passed before the Times announced" The death of the Duke of Orleans."
Visiting Paris a short time afterwards, she saw and recognised the place of
the accident, and received the explanation of her impression. The doctor
who attended the dying Duke was an old friend of hers; and as he watched
by the bed, his mind had been constantly occupied with her and her family.
The reason of this was an extraordinary likeness-a likeness which had often
led to amusing incidents-between several members of the Broughton family
and members of the French Royal family who were present in the room. " I
spoke of you and yours when I got home," said the doctor, "and thought of
you many times that evening. The likeness between yourselves and the
Royal family was,perhaps, never so strong as that day when they stood there
in their sorrow, all so natural; fa.ther, mother, brothers, sisters, watching
the dying son and brother. Here was the link between us, you see."
We have placed these two "transferred impressions" together on ac-
count of their essential similarity, though the occasion was in one case
but the tumble of a little boy in the park, in the other the tragic death
of a" son of France." For in both cases, it will be observed, the scene
was not flashed from mind to mind at the moment of its OCC'Ulr'rence, but
considerably later, though at a time when the agent's thoughts were
deeply concentrated (as we know in one case and may presume in
the other) on a mental renewal of the agitating scene, coupled with a
thought of tlie very person to whose perception that scene was in fact.
transferred. This deferment of the impression is certainly not a point.
which anyone would have invented in order to add to the marvel of a
story. To the ordinary reader it would seem a mere confusion and
weakening of the tale. But we need hardly say that to those who have
grasped the conception of telepathy this very point is of the utmost in-
terest and importance. It shows us ollf' of the precise phenomena to
which our actual experiments point-the translation from agent to per-
(lipient of a represented image with almost the distinctness of an actual
sensation-as where a diagram which the agent is merely recalling to
memory is transferred with pictorial vividness to the percipient's mind.
In the Kensington Gardens story the very inaccuracy of the scene, as
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] A Theory of Apparititm8. 161
represented to the percipient's mind, suggests the manner in which it
has already been modified in the agent's memory. The confusion of
people, cabs, and horses, j,running very fast in one direction," strongly
AUggests the half-delirious recrudescence of the agitated scene in the
mind of the little invalid.
We shall now give an example of a. less unusual type, where there is
more distinctly a transference of actual sensation. It ha.s a resem-
. blance to the experiments where the percipient is able to reproduce a
diagram at which the agent is actually gazing; or, again, to our pre-
viously cited ca.se, where Mrs. Severn felt the precise pa.in suffered by
her husband at a distance, from an accidental blow on the mouth. The
acceunt was sent to us by the Rev. Canon Warburton, The Close,
Winchester.
Somewhere about the year 1848 I went up from Oxford to stay a day or
two with my brother, Acton Warburton, then a barrister living at 10, Fish
Street, Lincoln's Inn. When I got to his chambers I found a note on the
table apologising for his absence, and saying that he had gone to a dance
somewhere in the West End, and intended to be home soon after 1 o'clock.
Instead of going to bed, I dozed in an arm-chair, but started up wide awake
exactly at 1, ejaculating "By Jove, he's down I" and seeing him coming
out of a drawing-room into a brightly illuminated landing, catching his foot
in the edge of the top stair, and fa.lling headlong, just saving himself by his
elbows and hands. (The house was one which I had never seen,nor did I know
where it was.) Thinking very little of the matter I fell a-doze again for half
an hour, and was awakened by my brother suddenly coming in and saying,
.. Oh, there you are 1 1 have just had as narrow an escape of breaking my
neck as I ever had in my life. Coming out of the ball-room, I caught my
foot and tumbled full length down the stairs."
W. WARllURTON.
In a. second letter Canon Warburton a.dds :-
My brother was hurrying home from his dance, with some little self-
reproach in his mind for not having been at his chambers to receive his guest,
so the chances are that he was thinking of me. The whole seene was vividly
present to me at the moment, but I did not note particulars, any more than
one would in real life. The general impression was of a narrow landing
brillia.ntly illuminated, and I remember verifying the correctne88 of this by
questions at the time.
This is my sole experience of the kind.
Here the actual scene, intensely realised in the moment of imminent
peril, seems to ha.ve flashed itself from mind to mind with startling but
evanescent distinctness. We may remark tha.t these sudden and vivid
impressions in a. state between sleeping and waking (of which we have
many examples) do not fa.irly fall under the category of dreams. Their
analogue is rather to be found in the rare and curious illuswns ltypna-
9Qgiques of oncoming sleep, or in the occasional prolongation of dream-
Digitized by Coogle
162 A Theory of AppariUons. [May 28~
images into the first waking moments-the difference lying, of course.
in the fllct that in our cases the scene observed is one which was actually
passing elsewhere at the moment.
In the next stage of visualisation the percipient sees a face or figure
projected or depicted, as it were, on some convenient surface-the image
being thus truly externalised, but in an unreal and unsubstantial fashion,
and in a bizarre relation to the real oqjects among which it appears.
In this respect it might be compared to the "after-image" of the sun,
or of some object that has been intently scrutinised through a micro-
scope, which we involuntarily import into our view of the surrounding
scene.
We will begin with an example taken from the "Memoirs of Geor-
giana, Lady Chatterton," by E. H. Dering (1878), pp. 100-102.
My mother had not been very well, but there was nothing alarming in
her state. I was suffering from a bad cold, and went early to bed one night,
after leaving her in the drawing-room in excellent spirits, and tolerably well.
I slept unusually well, and when I awoke the moon was shining through the
old casement brightly into the room. The white curtains of my bed were
drawn to protect me from the draught that came through the large window.
and on this curtain, as if depicted there, I saw the figure of my mother-the
face deadly pale, with blood flowing on the bedclothes. For a moment I
lay honor-stricken, and unable to move or cry out, till, thinking it might be
a dream or a delusion, I raised myself up in bed, and touched the curtain.
Still the appearance remained (although the curtain on which it was depicted
moved to and fro when I touched it) as if reflected by a magic lantern. In
great terrior I got up, and throwing on a cloak I rushed off through some
rooms and a long passage to my mother's room. To my surprise, I saw from
the further end of the passage that her dour was open and a strong light
coming from it across the passage. As she invariably locked her door when
she went to bed, my fears were increased by the sight, and I ran on more
quickly still, and entered her room. There she lay just as I had seen her on
the curtain, pale as death and the sheet covered with blood, and two doctors
standing by the bedside. She saw me at once and seemed delighted to see
me, though too weak to speak or hold out her hand. " She has been very
ill," said the doctor, "but she would not allow you to be called, lest your cold
should be made worse. But I trust all dange~ is over now. . . • . The
sight of you has decidedly done her much good." So she had been in danger,
and would not disturb me! Oh! how thankful I felt to the vision or fancy,
or whatever it may have been.
It will be seen that the picture, though not producing the impression
of a solid and independent object, was still no mere illusion, no mere
momentary translation of the folds or pattern of the drapery into a
human face. It was accurate and persistent enough to resist a touch
which shook the curtain on which it was shown.
The next case carries us perhaps a step furbher still, as the image
appeared with somewhat more of apparent relief-though certainly not
Digitized by Loo
1884.] A Theorg of Apparition8. 163
yet as co-ordinate in any natural fashion with the other objects in the
percipient's field of vision. We received the account from Mr. Richard
Searle, Barrister, Home Lodge, Herne Hill, who tells us that it was his
sole experience of a hallucination.
One afternoon, a few years ago, I was sitting in my chambers in the
Temple, working at some papers. My desk is between the fireplace and one
of the windows, the window being two or three yards on the left side of my
chair, and looking out into the Temple. Suddenly I became aware that I was
looking at the bottom window-pane, which was about on a level with my
eys, and ~here I saw the figure of the head and face of my wife, in a re-
clining position, with the eyes closed and the face quite white and bloodleBB,
as if she were dead.
I pulled myself together, and got up and looked out of the window, where
I saw nothing but the houses opposite, and I came to the conclusion that I
had been drowsy and had fallen asleep; and after taking a few turns about
the room to rouse myself, I sat down again to my work and thought no more
of the matter.
I went home at my usual time that evening, and whilst my wife and I
were at dinner she told me that she had lunched with a friend who lived in
Gloucester Gardens, and that she had taken with her a little child, one of her
nieces, who was staying with us ; but during lunch, or just after it, the child
had a fall and slightly cut her face so that the blood came. After telling the
story, my wife added that she was 80 aJa.rm.ed when she saw the blood on the
child's face that shehad fainted. What I had seen in the window -then
occurred to my mind, and I asked her what time it was when this happened.
She said, as far as she remembered, it must have been a few minutes after
2 o'clock. This was the time,as nearly as I could calculate, not having
looked at my watch, when I saw the figure in the window-pane.
I have only to add that this is the only occasion on which I have known
my wife to have had a fainting fit. She was in bad health at the time, and I
did not mention to her what I had seen until a few days afterwards, when
she had become stronger. I mentioned the occurrence to several of my
friends at the time. R. S.
November 2nd, 1883.
Mr. Paul Pierrard, at whose residence, 27, Gloucester Gardens, W.,
Mrs. Searle fainted, tells us that the cause of her doing so was the sight
of an accident which befel her little niece. He also &escribes hearing
from Mr. Searle, on the next day, that at the precise time of the faint-
ing "a peculiar feeling overcame him, and he distinctly saw-as it were
in a looking-glass-the very image of his wife leaning back in a swoon."
The last two narratives are specially noteworthy. When it first
became evident to us that a -number of strange heterogeneous narratives
might be explained and connected by supposing them to represent the
various 8tage8 ofexte'T'fI,(JliBaticm of a telepathic impact in the percipient's
mind, we were quite ignorant of the existence of such cases as those of
Lady Chatterton and Mr. Searle. Our chain of argument seemed fairly
Digitized by Coogle
164 A Theory of Apparition8. [May 28,
complete without them. We should have gone on from scenes :flashed
before the mind to phantoms visualised" out in the room," with a sense
that there was no real interruption of continuity, although the step was
a. long one to make on such uncertain ground. The moment, however,
that these externalised pictures are described, it becomes plain that
they supply exactly the connecting link, the want of which was vaguely
felt. The picture on the window-pane or the bed-curtain comes pre-
cisely midway between the mental image and the apparently solidfigure.
It represents (in our language) a telepathic impression which has been
sxternalised, but not yet completely objectified; which presents itself as
something at which the percipient gazes, but which yet is not "taken for
real," or localised in three dimensions among the familiar objects around
him. And as compared with. the two equally crude views between
which we steer-that phantoms are all morbid nonsense, or that they are
all "the spirits of the dead"-we think that our explanation is strongly
supported by such intermediate cases as these. Our aim is to trace the
connection between the most trivial phenomena of thought-transference,
or confused inklings of disaster, and the full-blown "apparition" of
popular belief. And, once on the track, we find group after group of
transitional experiences, illustrating the degrees by which a stimulus,
falling or fallen from afar upon some obscure sub-conscious region of the
percipient's mind,may seem to disengage itself from his subjectivity, and
to emerge into the waking world.
And now we come to the final class of cases, where the percipent sees
the phantasmal figure as an apparently solid object among the familiar
objects which surround him, and holding to those objects just such a.
relation as a. figure of flesh and blood might have held. We received
the following example from Mr. George Marchant, Linkfield Street,
Redhill, formerly a large farmer and miller, and now an admirable speci-
men of shrewd and vigorous old age.
About 2 o'clock on the morning of the 21st of October, 1881, while I was
perfectly wide awake, and looking at a lamp burning on my washhand-stand,
a person, as I thought, came into the room by mistake, and stopped, looking
into the looking-glass on the table. It soon occurred to me it represented
Robinson Kelsey, by his dress and wearing his hair long behind. When I
raised myself up in bed and called out, it instantly disappeared. The next
day I mentioned to some of my friends how strange it was. So thoroughly
convinced was I, that I searched the local papers that day (Saturday) and
the following Tuesday, believing his death would be in one of them. On the
following Wednesday a man, who formerly was my drover, came and told me
Robinson Kelsey was dead. Anxious to know at what time he died, I wrote
to Mr. Wood, the family undertaker at Lingfield; he learnt from the brother-
in-law*' of the deceased that he died at 2 a.m. He was my first cousin, and
• This brother·ln·law has kindly confirmed the accuracy of the above dat , but
has now forgotten what was the hour of death, not having been actually present.
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] A TII.corg of Apparition8. 165
was apprenticed formerly to me as a miller ; afterwards he lived with me as
journeyman; altogether, eight years. I never saw anything approaching
that before. I am 72 years old, and never feel nervous ; I am not afraid of
the dead or their spirits. I hand you a rough plan of the bedroom, &c.
To our inquiries as to whether Robinson Kelsey hadbeen in his mind,
and on various other points, Mr. Marchant replies :-
I had not been thinking about him, neither had I spoken to him for
20 years. In the morning after seeing the apparition, I spoke about it
to a person in the house. In the evening I again spoke about it to two per-
sons, how strange it was. It was several days after our conversation about
what I had seen that I heard of his death. These people will confirm my
statement, for after I heard of the death I spoke of it to the same people,
that my relation died the same night as I saw the apparition. As the ap-
parition passed between my bed and the lamp I had a full view of it ; it was
unmistakable. When it stopped looking in the glass I spoke to it, then it
gently sank away downwards.
We have received the following confirmation of this incident -
We are positive of hearing Mr. Marchant one day say that he saw the
apparition of Robinson Kelsey during the previous night.
ANN LANGERIDGE,'" Linldield Street, Redhill.
MATILDA. FULLER, Station Road, Redhill.
WILLIAM Mn.Es, Station Road, Redhill.
Mr. Marchant has never had any other "hallucination," and laughs
at the very idea of such thingil. In a personal interview he entered
further into detail, pointing out in situ the exact line that the figure
took, and how it momentarily hid the lamp in passing in front of the
washhand-stand. He describes Kelsey's long and bushy back-hair as a
very distinct peculiarity; and he thinks that the figure was visible for
nearly a minute.
Here, then, at last, we have the orthodox apparition. And we note
at once that the completeness of the externalisation is not the only
point in which this phantasm differs from the preceding ones. It is
more durable, and it is apparently more independent. Reading the
account of it, one cannot resist the question, "Should I have seen it, had
I been there '1" And the question cannot but lead on to another. If the
apparition could have been seen by more than one person, what will be
the effect on our theory of the transference of an impression from mind
to mind1 Can we conceive of this rare telepathic sympathy as affecting
two minds at the same moment and in the same way 1 or are we driven
• One ot us has visited Mrs. Langeridge, who is a sensible person, with very
little belief in "ghosts." She at once volunteered the remark that Mr. Marchant
described his vision to her next morning.
Digitized by Coogle
166 .A. Theory of .Apparitio1't8. [May 28,
to assume some independent agency, operating quite outside the mind of
either percipient 7
Up to this point it will be observed, this fundamental problem has
not presented itself. The phantasms with which we have thus far been
dealing have not been such as to force on us the question whether two
or more percipients would be likely to share them. But in the case of
the completer or more objective phantasms, we have no longer any
assurance that they are perceptible to one person only, unless we have
actual evidence that other persons were present at the time and failed
to perceive them.
Now, as a matter of fact, each variety of these fully ea:ternalised
phantasms is liable (as we find from numerous instances) to be perceived
by anyone who happens tQ be present. This phenomenon of collective
percipience, of a sight seen or a sound heard* by several persons at once,
can be shown, we think, to be not inconsistent with the substantial
truth of our theory; but the problem is a formidable one, and we can-
not here do more than indicate its existence.
Meantime, tlle very fact that we have been able to arrange the
phenomena in a graduated series must be admitted to be strongly sug-
gestive of a common origin for them all; and we shall endeavour to
treat the solid-looking figure of Robinson Kelsey, no less than the
fleeting vision "in the mind's eye" of Mr. Rawlinson, as in some way
the product of the percipient's own mind, projected (so to speak) under
the stimulus of an impact from the mind of the dying friend. But this
explanation is something more than a natural conjecture: we have, as
we stated above, a certain amount of e:xperimental support even for the
extreme cases where the apparition is externalised in the most com-
plete way. We should hardly have ventured to make so positive an
assertion on the ground of previously recorded cases; as those cases are
few in number, and $eir correctness cannot now be tested in detail.
But we cannot doubt the genuineness of the case which we published in
the Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research (Vol. I. p. 120).
where a friend of our own, without having given the slightest hint of
his intention, concentrated his mind for some minutes on the idea of
appearing to two disant friends, in no way subject to hallucinations;
who volunteered the information, when next he visited them, that they
had distinctly seen him in their room at precisely that time.t Such a
• It would be oumbrous to introduce at every turn the words neoeesary for
extending what is said about vision to impressions of hea";''IIg and touok. The
reader will have no difficulty in perceiving where the application to these further
senses is possible, and is to be taken as understood.
t We cannot ignore the strength ot the contemporary testimony for the
occurrenoe ot similar events in the East j but the remoteness of the locality and
other difficulties prevent us trom here dwelliDg on them.
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] A Theory of Apparition8. 167
result is specially instructive in connection with more than one of the·
spontaneous cases quoted above. We noted, in passing, how Mr. Raw-
linson's case differed from the more ordinary forms of experimental
Thought-transference, in that the agent was not directing his attention.
to that which appeared to the percipient. The same remark applies to.
Mr. Searle's case; and in Lady Chatterton's case, though a portion
of what she herself saw depicted-namely, the effusion of blood-was.
doubtless prominent at the moment in her mother's mind, the mother's
own face and aspect can hardly have had any conscious place there.
What, then, are we to conceive to have been in the agent's mind in these
instances 1 It cannot be unreasonable to suppose (as Canon Warburton
supposes in the case of his brother) that part of its content, at any rate,
was a forcible idea of the percipient and of the agent's self in relation t().
the percipient. Lady Chatterton's mother,it is clearly implied,was think-
ing of her daughter, and in the other two cases we should naturally ima-
gine a similar though more transient occupation of the agent's mind with
the absent husband or friend; for it has often been noted that, in the-
sense of helplessness and collapse that immediately precedes fainting or
death, the idea of distant scenes and persons is apt to recur in very
vivid flashes. And if this be granted, the parallelism with our friend's
experimental case becomes very marked. For the idea in his mind was.
of himself-not his aspect particularly, but his personality-in relation to
the percipients; while the impression in tlUJir minds was of his aspect.
Mr. Marchant's case (which is of a common type) does, however~
undoubtedly carry us beyond this analogy. We cannot pronounce it
impossible that Kelsey's dying thoughts reverted strongly to his old
employer; but, considering the length of time during which they had
held no intercourse,we should prefer to suppose that the pre-existent and
latent rapport between the two sufficed to effect the transference of the
iTl1~ae, without any conscious direction of the agent's attention. We can
hardly hope, however, that this hypothesis will look plausible, until the
rationale of the projection of the image has been more fully considered.
To this, then-the necessary supplement or expansion of our telepathic
theory-we may at once proceed.
Let us first clearly realise the facts. Something is presented as
apparently an independent piece of matter in the material world; but
no piece of matter is really there, and the appearance is a phantasm.
How would such an experience be most naturally described 1 Surely as
a hallucination of the sense of sight-the creation of a mind which is in
some abnormal state. This is precisely what we hold it to be; the
a.bnormal state being, however, not-as in the case of morbid
hallucinations-a mere pathological condition of the percipient, but a
peculiar form of disturbance produced by an unusual condition in some
Digitized by Coogle
168 .A Theory 0/ .Apparition8. [Yay 28,
distant person. In virtue of their Jmving their real cause outside the
percipient, and so in a way conveying true information, we may describe
death-wraiths and the like as veridical hallucinations; but as projections
of the percipient's own mind, by which his senses are deluded, we hold
them to be altogether on a par with morbid hallucinations. They are
thus, merely a species in a larger genus; and our most hopeful course
will, therefore, be to trace the natural history of the genus-to decide
what a " hallucination of the senses" really involves. It is inevitable
that this endeavour should carry us for a brief space into the region of
physiology, but the accompanying diagram will enable the least in-
.structed reader to master at a glance all the technical information
required. We accept the commonly accepted doctrine as to the locali-
sation of brain functions; but the general tenor of our explanation
might, we think, hold good, even if that doctrine came to be modified.
Let A represent the retina of the eye which in itself has no more
power of seeing than a mirror has. Let B represent the group of cells
in the brain which constitutes the "visualising centre," and which is
excited into activity whenever sight takes place. And let C represent
the cortical or external part of the hemispheres of the brain, part of
which is excited into activity whenever any of the higher psychical
faculties-intelligent perception, imagination, comparison, memory,
volition-are called into play. A is connected with B by the fibres of
the optic nerve, and B is connected with C by other nerve-fibres. Now
any disturbance of the cells at B which reaches a certain intensity will
be accompanied by the sense of sight; and, when this disturbance is
'propagated onwards in the natural course from
B to C, this sense will become a complete per-
-ception-an object for the mind-which can be
reflected on, compared with other objects, and
·remembered. But the central, indispensable
fact-the disturbance at B-may itself originate
in at least two quite distinct ways. On the one
hand it may originate in a nervous impulse sent
up along the fibres from A, owing to some
change which has taken place at A-whether it be a blow on the eye,
which makes us see sparks, or the stimulus of external rays of light,
which makes us see surrounding objects. Or, on the other hand, it may
originate in a nervous impulse sene down along the fibres from C, owing
to some change that has taken place at C; and then we shall have a
hallucination-a sense of seeing, and of seeing, it may be, with great
vividness and completeness, though what is seen has no existence
·external to the percipient's organism. This may happen either volun-
tarily or involuntarily. Painters have sometimes imagined a face or a.
scene with such force as actually to externalise it in space and see it
Digitized by Coogle
1884.-, A TlteorU of Appm·itiolls. 169
before their eyes. But far more often the hallucination is involuntary,
as in purely morbid cases, in dreams, and in the species of apparitions
with which we are dealing in this paper.
Now, so far, the matter seems plain enough. The particular cells at
B, whose activity is necessary for the sense of sight, may be stimulated
or exploded either by an impulse from without, started by light, in which
case we see objects that are really there; or by an impulse from
within, started by some spontaneous cerebral change, in which case we
see objects that are not really there. But with regard to the latter
case there is just one point that needs carefl:l notice. Weare supposing
that the impulse which results in a hallucination is started by some
change in the cells at C. Now what mental event does this physical
change at C imply 1 Clearly not the sight of the object, for that only"
takes places in association with the physical change in the cells at
.E. The mental event associated with the change at C is not the
sigl~t, but the idea, of the object, as it might present itself in imagin-
ation or memory. A certain low degree of visualisation is, no
doubt, involved in the very idea, and probably implies a slight downward
escape of current from C to B; that is to say, the sluice-gates are never
entirely closed. But the idea only becomes completely visualised-only
becomes a precept, so as to suggest the real external presence of the
object-when the downward impulse is of a far stronger kind, and pro-
duces as large a change at B as an upward impulse from the retina.
would no-the whole complex process being, however, for consciousness,
a single and instantaneous event. And this being so, we are at once
able to assign to the different parts of the process their respective
characters. The origin of the hallucination is no doubt in the imagina-
tion-that is, in physical terms, at C; but it is not the imagination-
or C as the physical organ of the imagination-that is to blame for the
hallucination. There is nothing delusive in the mere idea or memory of
a visible object; and in serving as a basis to such an idea or memory,
however vivid, the cells at C are merely performing their normal
functions. The blame attaches to the escape of a strong nervous current
in the downward direction from C to B, in the rending of the sluice-
gates (so to speak) at the point where the line drawn from B touches
the semicircle. This is the abnormal event. If it did not take place,
there would be no delusion, for there would be a mere idea or memory
of the object. When once it has taken place, delusion is inevitable;
for instantaneously a" strong stimulus is communicated to the cells at B,
and such a stimulus involves the sense of seeing the object. It may
",ell be only the sense, and not the judgment, that is deluded; many
persons who have suffered from hallucinations have perfectly well known
that the figures seen by them were only phantasms. But for all that they
saw them: to the sense of sight the figures were completely real-so
Digitized by Coogle
170 A Theory oj Appa1·itions. [May 28,
much so that the visual sensation was even referred to the external eye
-and the figure could be made to appear double by squinting, or by pres-
sure on the side of one eyeball.
The physical details of the process which we have called the" rending
()f the sluice-gates," and the" escape of current from 0 to B," will per-
naps never be known. Oertain general conditions that favour the
process are indeed recognised: hallucinations of the senses are common
'Elvents in sleep, in insanity, and in the delirium of fever; and they may be
produced by the immoderate use of various drugs, such as haschish and
,opium. But even in these cases the broad fact is almost all that is known.
Of the actual physiological process we can say no more than that in
insanity it is part of the general cerebral derangement, and is due in the
other cases to some change in the constitution or distribution of the
blood. But there is one important class of sensory hallucinations of
which even thus much cannot be said-a class of which singularly little
notice has been taken by scientific writers-namely, the quite transient
and casual hallucinations of sane and healthy persons. Though rare,
in the sense that only a. small percentage of the population have had
experience of them, these occurrences are absolutely numerous. Scores
of them take place in England in the course of a year. But what
determines their occurrence to this or that person, at this or that mo-
ment, we are often quite unable to say. Now in this state of ignorance
there certainly need be no difficulty in supposing that one means by
which the "escape of current" from 0 to B may be determined is a
telepathic impulse. Supposing the evidence for the telepathic production
of hallucinations-e.g., for apparitions at the time of death-to be in
itself sufficient, physiology need make no difficulties about the process in
the percipient's brain, for in its general outline that process is just as
intelligible to us, and in its minute details just as obscure, as in any other
case of hallucination. Taking a broad view of the matter, we may even
say that the difficulties are less in the case of death-wra.iths than in
cases where the hallucination is purely casual, and depends on no assign-
able conditions at all. For we at any rate succeed in connecting the
particular rare effect-the peculiar "escape of current," and the conse-
quent occurrence Of a hallucination to a sane and healthy person-with
a particular rare cause-the peculiar condition of a distant friend.
This, happily, is all that need be said in the way of physical explan-
ation. For we have now got what w~ wanted-a ready way of
connecting apparitions with the simpler forms of Thought-transference,
even where (as in Mr. Marchant's case) the connection might at first
seem most difficult to establish. How, we asked above, could the idea.
of Kelsey be impressed on Mr. Marchant's mind with such force as to
embody itself in a visible phantom, when Kelsey'S mind was presumably
not occupied either with Mr. Marchant or with himself in relation to
Digitized by Loo
188~.] A Theory of Apparitions. 171
him 1 From a physiological point of view the difficulty vanishes, on the
supposition that the primary effect on Mr. Marchant took place not at
B but at C; at the part of the brain which is the great storehouse of old
impressions; in the part, moreover, where an appropriate physical basis
may be found not only for distinct and recognisable images, but for
subconscious ideas and memories, and for the most distant and intan-
gible associations. In the register of the brain it is seldom that a record,
once made, is so utterly obliterated that, under suitable conditions, it
may not be revived. And if once a relation be established between two
persons, and the records of it registered in their two brains, we see no
reason why the same harmony should not occasionally manifest itself
between those records--even though they be long sunk below the level
-of conscious attention---a.s between the immediate impressions of the
moment; and, this once granted, we have seen how the physiological
process may lead on to the projection of the visible phantom. In
psychical terms, we see no reason why subconscious ideas and memories
which are in no distinCt way present to consciousness, such as Kelsey's
;sense of his old relationship to Mr. Marchant, should not evoke
similar blind movements in Mr. Marchant's mind, which, gathering
,strength, might lead him to body forth the vision of his old acquaint-
ance.* On this view it would become quite intelligible that he should
8ee the figure even before he recognised it. And in a similar way we
.should interpret some at least of those cases of death-wraith (of which
we have a. good many specimens) where the figure seems to form by a
!Jradual process. We should say 1(hat there the idea, at first but dimly
conveyed and vaguely apprehended, was working itself into definiteness
(as so often occurs in processes of abstract thought), and that the char-
acter of the projection underwent a corresponding change.
But here we find ourselves fairly launched on a very wide and inter-
,esting question-namely, how far the primary idea may be modified,
wrought on, or worked out, in the percipient's own mind, before it be-
·comes embodied as a visible phantom. That mind is no mere collection
• It might seem out of the question to obtain any elllperimentaZ support for a
transferenoe of impreBBion apart from oonsciousness on the "agent's" part.
Yet support of a kind has actually presented itself. We requested our friend
'above mentioned secretly to determine, before going to sleep at about 10.30 p.m.,
·that his form should appear at midnight-that is, at a moment when he would
be actually asleep-to one of the persons whom he had before succeeded inaffect-
ing, and whom he had not even seen for some time. On the 22nd of Maroh he
·did so, determining not only to appear but to touoh his friend's head. The resDlt
is thus described by the latter :-" On Saturday night, 22nd of Maroh, 1884, I had
,a distinct impression that Mr. B. was in my room. I distinotly sa.w him, whilst
widely awake. He oame towards me and touohed my head." Sinoe this Report
was written, we have received an account, from another "agent" and
.., peroipient," of a similar successful experiment.
Digitized by Coogle
172 A Theor!! oj Apparition8. [May 28,
of separate compartments, into which new ideas will fit and then rest in a
passiveway ; but anorganismofinteractmg parts, whereanychangeorany
intrudingelementmayset inmotionwholetrainsof imagesandassociations.
We know what small and dim suggestions will sometimes set large
tracts of mental machinery to work; and we may therefore well credit
the va",ouer or subconscious order of telepathic impressions with such a
power. Now if a visible phantasm results, in the manner above sug-
gested, what more natural than that these further images and associa-
tions should be embodied in it 7 We may compare the process to what
takes place in the one form of hallucination with which we are a.ll
familiar-in dreaming. A strong impression, whether received before
sleep (as from a recent sorrow or a piece of exciting work) or during
sleep (as from a knock at the door or an uncomfortable posture), will
mingle itself in dreams with all sorts of scenes and ideas that the
sleeping mind supplies. Now we would suggest that the mind, even in
a waking state, may unconsciously react, as in a dream, on the crude
material presented to it, may invest the nucleus of a "transferred im-
pression" with its own atmosphere and imagery; nay, even that the
apparent externality of the phantasm-the very fact in virtue of which
we call the impression a hallucination-may itself be merely a radical
instance of such investiture. We should thus have a. ready explana-
tion for many degrees of distinctness and individualisation, and many
diversities of character, in the sensory phantasm. Suppose the same
kind of real event-say the peaceful death of an aged parent-to occur
in twenty cases, and in each of them to produce a. real and unique sort
of disturbance in some absent person's mind; then, if that disturbance
clothed itself in some sensor'lJ form-or, in our language, if it reached
the point of causing a. hallucination-such hallucination might take
twenty different forms. One percipient may hear his parent's voice;
another may imagine the touch of his hand upon his head; a. third may
see him in his wonted dress and aspect; a fourth may see him in his
dying aspect; a fifth may see him in some transfigured aspect; and
others may invest the disturbing idea with every sort of visible sym-
bolism, derived from their minds' habitual furniture and their wonted
trains of thought.
Striking narratives of visible phantasms thus mingled with a. dream
element do in fact exist. In the case of sailors, for instance, the condi-
tions of whose lives are so different from those of invalids on land, the
death-wraith often seems to" suffer 8: searchange," and to reflect in
fantastic wildness the perils of the deep. Such is a. narrative (sent to
us by Engineer Dunlop, of Bangkok, Siam) of an apparition seen
"when the ship was under all plain sail off the pitch of Cape Horn,"
when the seaman who had "started aloft to bend the fore-top-gal1ant
flung his arms round the top-gal1ant shrouds and held on without
Digitized by Coogle
1884.J A TIIl'olll '0/ Appm·itiolls. 173
moving till he was lowered on deck in the bight of a bowline."
For as he " kept looking to the windward at the squall, suddenly in the
midst of it he saw his sweetheart dressed in white flowing robes, who
came flying down toward him before the wind," and who, as it after-
wards proved, had died in England at that very time.
We cite this last narrative, not as itself evidentially strong, but on
account of its theoretical interest as illustr!l.ting (among others more
directly attested) the dream-like mode in which the telepa~hic impres-
sion may take shape from the scene around; and "the wet sea-boy, in
an hour so rude," may transfer to "cradle of the rude imperious surge"
the figure whose life is ebbing in the quiet bed at home. For we hold
it legitimate to use in this purely illustrative manner many narratives
on which we should hesitate to base our argument if they stood alone.
When we review the 600 cases which (exclusive of dreams) we have
a.lready printed as material for our book on .. Phantasms of the
Living" alone-cases of which a. large proportion .lome first-hand from
persons known to us-we .:an hardly doubt that sooner or later the
general fact of these distant impressions will be accepted by the majo-
rity of candid minds. Our evidence is eminently cumulative; but until
its cumulation can be shown at full length, we must aim rather at
showing its coherence; at indicating the wa.y in which intermediate
instances and cross analogies interlock even the most apparently isolated
and grotesque of bond fide narratives of this kind.
Another group of cases in which the percipient's mind seems to
modify the impression received is that where the phantasmal imagery
is drawn from the appurtenances of death, or the accepted beliefs as to
resurrection. Of course symbolism of this kind, which is common to
the agent's mind as well as to the percipient's, affords no positive proof
as to whose mind it is from which the phantom derives its shape and
consistency. But the least marvellous explanation-the nearest to
experimental analogy-will be that which assumes tnat it is the perci-
pient's own activity which invests the transferred impression with its
::lothing of imagery. We have space for only two instances of this
class. The first was given to us by Lieut.-Colonel Jones, 8, Sussex
Place, N.W., who confirmed the narrative to us verbally, and shOWed
us a letter written at the time in which his father alludes to the
apparition. Oolonel Jones has never experienced any other hallucina-
tion whatever; and it seems to us that this case alone would severely
try the theory which explains all such phantoms as this by me1"tl chance-
::oincidence.
In 1845 I was stationed with my regiment at Moulmein, in Burmah. ID
those days there was no direct mail, and we were dependent upon the arrival
of sailing vessels for our letters, which sometimes arrived in batches. and
occasionally were months without any news from home.
o
Digitized by Coogle
174 A Theory of Apparitions. [May 28,
On the evening of the 24th of March, 1845, I was, with others, dining
at a friend's house, and when sitting in the verandah after dinner, with the
other guests, in the middle of a conversation on some local affairs, I all at
once diBtindly saw before me the form of an open coffin, with a favourite
sister of mine, then at home, lying in it apparently dead. I naturally
ceased talking, and every one looked at me with astonishment, and asked
what was the matter. I mentioned, in a laughing manner, what I had seen,
and it was looked upon as a joke. I walked home later with an officer very
much my senior (the late Major-General George Briggs, retired, Madras
Artillery, then Captain Briggs), who renewed the subject, and asked whether
I had received any news as to my sister's illneBB. I said no, and that my
last letters from home were dated some three months prior. He asked me
to make a note of the circumstance, as he had before heard of such occur-
rences. I did so, and showed him the entry I made opposite the day of the
month in an almanack. On the 17th of May following I received a letter
from home announcing my sister's death as having taken place on that very
day-viz., the 24th of March, 1845.
As to the coincidence of hour, Colonel Jones only learnt that the
death occurred in the mornmg of the 24th. His vision was seen after
an early dinner, 80 that, allowing for longitude, the correspondence of
time was certainly near, and may have been exact. There had been a
very close attachment between sister and brother.
The next case is from our friend, Miss Summerbell, 140, Kensing-
ton Park Road, W., who has never had any other hallucination.
I have been, for many years, on terms. of close intimacy with the family
of a Dutch nobleman, who reside in Holland. Early in July last I received
a letter from the eldest daughter of the house saying that her father was
seriously ill. From that time I received news of his condition every day.
On the 27th of July, 1882, I received a postcard saying that he was slightly
better. I was staying at the time at the Spa, Tunbridge Wells, and suffer-
ing much from neuralgia. On the night of the 27th I was lying, unable to
sleep from pain; no doubt I dozed now and then, but I firmly believe that I
was awake when what I am about to relate occurred. It was beginning to
be light, and I distinctly saw every object in the room. I do not know
whether it is necessary to say that in Holland, when a person of distinction
dies, a prieur d'enterremt1lt is employed. This man is dressed in black, with
dress coat, knee breeches, and cocked hat, with bands of crape hanging from
the comers. It is his office to go to all the houses where the deceased was
known and announce the death. On the morning of which I speak, I saw
the door of my room open and a prieur d'enterrement enter. He said
nothing, but stood with a long paper in his hand. I remember distinctly
wondering whether I had fallen asleep and was dreaming; I looked round
and saw the furniture, and the window, with the dim light coming through
the closed blind. I looked at my watch, it was nearly 5 o'clock. I looked
towards the man, but he was gone. It was nearly six years since I had
lived for any time in.Holland, and I had forgotten the custom of announcing
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] .A Theoru of Apparitions. li5
-deaths; at least, I had not thought of it for years. But on that morning,.
.at 3.20, my friend died. .
I afterwards questioned my friend, Mme. Huydecoper, about what
happened at the time of her husband's death, and I find that the first thing
they did was to discuss how they should send the tidings to me. I told the
friend with whom I was staying at the time what I had seen; she spoke of
it several times during the day, and reminded me of it when the news of the
death arrived.
Here the telepathic impression, instead of connecting itself with
some familiar image, such as a coffin, seems to have evoked slumbering
memories which associated Dutch customs with Dutch friends in the
percipient's mind.*
Whatever be the view taken of each separate symlJolical case of this
kind, it is to be hoped that the collection of a great number of them
may throw further light on the laws of association which govern these
rare events-on the path and barometry of these psychical storms.
There is, perhaps, scarcely any visual phantom of a dying person from
which some hint of scientific value might not be drawn, were the figure
.carefully scrutinised in every detail. Unfortunately, this scrutiny is
much less easy in the case of veridical than in the case of morbid
hallucinations. Morbid hallucinations are much more often durable,
and much more often repeated. Moreover-and we commend this point
* An analogous incident was narrated more than once bythe'late Dr. Pusey,
in a way which led his hearers to believe that the experience was his own. Our
friend, the Rev. G. B. Simeon, of Gainsborough, having undertaken to ask Dr.
Pusey what truth there was in the rumour that he had seen an apparition in
High Street, Oxford, Dr. Pusey replied that the report was probably founded on
the following fact :-
Two clergymen,A.and B., great friends, were at a dilltance from one another.
One afternoon, A., who was in his garden, saw the figure of B. approach, and
heard him say, "I have been in hell for half·an-hour, because I loved the praise
of men more than the praise of God." It turned out that B. had actually died
suddenly on that day, shortly before the appearance in the garden.
We were not satisfied wjth this evidence, as Dr. Pusey did not actually
aftlrm that A. was himself; and we have lately discovered what we think must
be the original of the story, in an old copy of the Imperia~ Magazine. As,
however, the main facts agree, and Dr. Pusey vouched for their truth, we may
be allowed to refer to them for purposes of illustration. It is plain that, on our
theory, the phantom's speeoh must be treated in the same way as the cofHn and
the prieur ll'ente'1"1'ement. Miss Jones was not actually lying in her cofHn when
she appeared to her brother in that position j nor, happily, is it neoessary to
assume that B.'s words were a transcript of literal reality. Just as in the one
case it was the imagery of Iloath which forced itself into prominence, so, in the
other case, the conception of what foZZ07lJ8 death may have started into dres.m-
like vividness when the telepathic impact from the dying friend arrived, and
awoke, perhaps, a slumbering judgment on him in foro C01l8Cientilll, which
affectionhad long kept hidden in the unacknowledged background of thought.
o 2
Digitized by Coogle
176 A Theory of Apparition8. [~ay 28,
to those who regard veridical hallucinations as merely transient morbid
affections occurring by clw,nce at the moment of death-morbid hallu·
cinations seem, in a majority of cases, to be unrecognised faces and
figures of strangers, and they thus excite curiosity rather than emotion.
In a large majority of our cases, on the other hand, the percipient has
recognised the phantom. It is thus to the countenance that they have
for the most part looked. The dress and surroundings are not minutely
observed, or it seems a mere irreverence to dwell on them in the
presence of what is so sacred and beloved. Often, too, the phantom is
merely momentary, and the result is that in very many instances we
have only the vague description, "I saw my father as I was used to see
him," "It was my mother, as she lived." In such cases there is
nothing to guide us as to the origin of the phantasmal image. It is
such as the percipient might most readily have shaped for himself; but
it is such, also, as the agent might most naturally have transmitted, if
such images are transmitted in their entirety and, so to speak, ready-
made.
There is, however, one large and important class of death-wraiths
whose peculiarity it is that the dress is, as it were, an integral part of
them, forming an element in the apparition so conspicuous and unex-
pected as to attract a full share of attention. We mean the <la8es
where the phantom appears in the dress, or with the aspect, which the
dying man actually wore at death, and of which the percipient was
not previously aware. Here it undoubtedly seems as though the
agenthadtransmittedafinished pictureof himself-an imago,asLucretius
would say, thrown off from his whole circumference-which needed no
reinforcement from the percipient's shaping imagination before it
stood complete and evident in the open' day.
This reproduction of actual costume or actual aspect passes
through all stages of distinctness and unexpectedness. We begin
with the cases where the dying person is merely seen clad in
white, as it were the vague reflection of the night-dress in which he lies>
and we go on to instances where the dress worn at death is altogether
strange and unusual, or where a violent end has inflicted recognisable
scars or mutilation, or where the image reiterates with phantasmal
urgency some task which the living mind regretfully leaves unaccom-
plished, as it sinks into the stupor of the dim death-day.
The first of these cases that we shall select is one which curiously
illustrates the changes effected by half a century of oral tradition in a
narrative of this kind. The occurrence in question, belonging to a.
well-known noble family and to a tragic accident, has been often cited in
society when such topics are discussed, and we obtained a written ac-
count of it from a member of the family known to us-both he and we
being ignorant that a contemporary record of the matter had already
1884.] A Theory of Apparitions. 177
been printed in "The Journal of Thomas Raikes, Esq., from 1831 to
1847" (London, 1856), Vol. I. p. 131. Weare thus, as it happens, able
to compare a. traditional a.ccount 53 years old with an account written
down 15 months after the occurrence :-
We give first our friend's account :-
My grandfather Sir J. Y. was drowned by the upsetting of a boat in the
Solent, in or about the year 1830. On the day of his death Miss M., a great
friend and connection of his, was at one of the Ancient Concerts in Hanover
Square Rooms. During the performance she fainted away, and when she
came to declared that she had seen a corpse lying at her feet, and though the
face was turned away she knew the figure to be that of my grandfather.
Communication in those days was not, of course, as easy as now, and herfears
were not verified till BOme days after the event. Such is the family story,
which I heard often from my father, and had verified by my mother whenlast
I saw her.
Here, as will be seen, there is nothing to indicate either the co-
incidence of hour or the dress in which the phantom was seen. Let us
now turn to the contemporary account, which has the two advantages
Qf being half a century nearer to the facts and of coming from the side
of the actual percipient, Miss Manningham, whose name we are now
allowed to print for the first time. In" A Portion of the Journal kept
by T. Raikes, Esq., from 1831 to 1847," Vol. I. p. 131, we read:-
Wednesday, 26th December, 1832.-Captain -- recounted a curious
anecdote that happened in his own family. He told it in the following
words :-It is now about 15 months ago that Miss M --, a connection
of my family, went with a party of friends to a concert at the Argyll Rooms.
She appeared there to be suddenly seized with indisposition, and though she
persisted for some time to struggle against what seemed a violent nervous
affection, it became at last so oppressive, that they were obliged to send for
their carriage and conduct her home. She was for a long while unwilling to
lIay what was the cause of her indisposition; but on being more earnestly
questioned, she at length confessed that she had, immediately on arriving at
the concen room, been terrified by a horrible vision which u.nceasingly pre-
sented itself to her sight. It seemed to her as though a naked corpse was
lying on the floor at her feet; the features of the face were partly covered by
a cloth mantle, but enough was apparent to convince her that the body was
that of Sir J-- Y--. Every effort was made by her friends at the time
to tranquillise her mind by representing the folly of allowing such delusions
to prey upon her spirits, and she thus retired to bed; but on the following
day the family received the tidings of Sir J-- Y-- having been
drowned in Southampton River that very night by the oversetting of his boat,
and the body was afterwards found entangled in a boat-cloak. Here is an
authentic case of second sight, and of very recent date.
On a critical comparison, it will be seen that the contemporary Of
old account presents two small apparent discrepancies from the tra-
Digitized by Coogle
178 A Theot"!/ oj Apparitions. [May 28,.
ditionalor new account, and also (which is more surprising) contains
two further circumstances of the highest interest. The discrepancies are
these. The new account says that Miss.M. did not receive the news for
some days; the old account saysthat thefamily received it the next day.
Now the journey from Southa-npton to London occupied only one day
in 1830, and probably the old account is correct. Mi88.M., however,
may not have been informed for another day or two; so the new
account may be correct also. The other discrepancy is in the name of
the building where the vision was seen-the" Argyll Rooms" accord-
ing to the old account, the " Hanover Square Rooms" according to the·
new. Now from Crickley's "Picture of London" (1831), p. 93, we learn
that "the Argyll Rooms, Regent Street, burnt down in the early part.
of last year, have been again restored to their former splendour. They
are devoted to concerts,balls,and exhibitions,and are much frequented by
persons of rank and fashion." It also appears that the Hanover Square
Rooms were open for concerts at the same time, so that either
account might be correct. But as the title "Argyll·Rooms" has long
ceased to suggest a high-class concert hall, it is likely enough that it
may have bcen unconsciously replaced in Lord and Lady--'s minds
by the more apparently suitable appellation.
These trifling discrepancies in unimportant points are such as must
needs accrue in 50 years' tradition. But it is a much more remark-
able thing to find that in this case tradition, so far from exaggerating,
has minimiBed the cardinal points of the story, It is in the old,
not in the new, account that we hear that the accident took place
"that very night," so that it is at any rate possible that
the coincidence of hO'Ur was exact. Moreover--and this is the
point with which we are here specially concerned-it is in the old,
not in the new, account that we hear of the cloth mantle wrapped about
the visionary form, the boat-cloak whose prototype was at that
time entangling beneath the dark estuary the limbs of the drowning
man. Note also in the old account the combination of dreamlike sym-
bolism with reflex of' actual fact. The corpse was seen as if naked, no
part of the dress being visible except that one article whose significance
was destined to be afterwards understood too well.
The comparison of these two narratives may serve to illustrate a.
generalisation which has gradually been suggested to us by many
similar collocations of older and newer versions. Tradition, we find.
when it deals in modern times with such accounts as these, tends
primarily to 8horten and Bimplify them. Sometimes this Bimplijicatiol1,
may also involve exaggeration of the marvellous element. For instance.
a coincidence of death and death-wraith, which was really not traced
nearer than to the same day, will be sometimes repeated as if it had
been proved to be also at the same hO'Ur. Or a figure vaguely
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] A Theory ojAppa1·itions. 179
resembling a dying person will be represented as precisely resembling
him. Often, again, this process of simplification is unimportant in its
effect on the narrative; as when in the well-known Wynyard case,a. man
who strikingly like Wynyard (and whose likeness is the only im-
portant point) is represented as having been Wynyard's twin brother.
But often, also (as in the case first given), this simplifying process tends
to lose the very points on which we are most concerned to dwell-the
undesigned indications which so often at once strengthen the evidence
of the narrative and double its theoretic interest. If the narratives with
which we are dealing were the offspring of chance and credulity, then
the further we get them from their original sources the better, it might
be thought, they would suit us. But if they are the offspring of law and
fact, we shall expect-and the case is so-that the nearer to absolute
accuracy, absolute contemporaneity, we can obtain them, the better
will they fit in with other facts, and range themselves beneath general
laws.
Our next case shall be a first-hand one, from a physician, Dr.
Rowland Bowstead, of Caistor, who tells us that he has never expe-
rienced any other hallucination.
In September, 1847, I was playing at a cricket match, and took the place
of long-field. A ball was driven in my direction which I ought to have caught
but missed it, and itrolled towards a low hedge ; I and anotherladran afterit.
When I got near the hedge I saw the apparition of my brother-in-law, who
was much endeared to me, over the hedge, dressed in a shooting suit with a.
gun on his arm ; he smiled and waved his hand at me. I called the attention
of the other boy to it; but he did not aee it, although he looked in the same
direction. When I looked again the figure had vanished. I, feeling very
sad at the time, went up to my uncle and told him of what I had seen; he
took out his watch and noted the time, justlO minutes to 1 o'clock. Two
days after I received a letter from my father informing me of the death of
my brother-in-law, which took place at 10 minutes to 1. His death ~as
singular, for on that morning he said he was much better and thought he
should be able to shoot again. Taking up his gun, he turned round to my
father, asking him if he had sent for me, as he particularly wished to see me.
My father replied the distance was too far and expense too great to send for
me, it being over 100 miles. At this he put himself into a passion, and said
he would see me in spite of them all, for he did not care for expense or
distance. Suddenly a blood·vessel on his lungs burst, and he died at once.
He was at the time dressed in a shooting suit and had his gun on his arm. I
knew he was ill, but a letter from my father previous to the time I saw him
told me he was improving and that he might get through the winter; but his
disease was consumption, and he had bleeding from the lungs three months
before his death. ROWLAND BOWSDAD, M.D.
Here the dress IS a very distinct one, not associated with invalids
or death-beds, and reproduced with apparent exactness. The agent's
Digitized by Coogle
180 A ThcOll1 oj Apparitio1l8. [May 28,
impression of his personality seems, in fact, to have carried with it the
details of his actual aspect as well as the symbolism of his imagined
farewell; and nothing was left to the percipient's imagination. It will
be observed that the coincidence of time is close to a minute, and was
noted on the spot. Itwould, we think, be difficult to express in figures
the enormous unlikelihood of a merely morbid hallucination, unique in
the percipient's experience, and involving by accident such coincidences
as these.
Our final instance shall be one which illustrates the possibility
of collective percipience. We received it from Miss 1(. M. Weld, of
The Lodge, Lymington, one of the two original witnesses.*
Philip Weld was the youngest son of Mr. James Weld, of Archers
Lodge, near Southampton, and a nephew of the late Cardinal Weld.
(The chief seat of that ancient family is Lulworth Castle, in Dorsetshire.)
He was sent by his father, in 1842, to St. ll:dmund's College, near
Ware, in Hertfordshire, for his education. He was a well conducted,
amiable boy, and much beloved by his masters and fellow-students.
It happened that on April 16th, 1845, it was a playday (or whole holiday),
and some of the boys went out on a boating expedition upon the river Ware.
On the morning of that day, Philip had been to Holy Communion
at the early Mass (having just finished his retreat), and in the after-
noon, accompanied by one of the masters and some of his companions,
went to boat on the river, which was a sport he enjoyed much.
When one of the masters remarked that it was time to return to
the college, Philip begged to have one row more; the master consented,
and they rowed to the accustomed turning point.
On arriving there, in turning the boat, Philip accidentally fell out
into a very deep part of the river, and, notwithstanding every effort
that was made to save him, was drowned.
His corpse was brought back to the college, and the Very Rev. Dr.
Cox (the president) was immensely shocked and grieved; he was very
fond of Philip, but what was most dreadful to him was to have to break
the sad news to the boy's parents. He scarcely knew what to do,
whether to write by post or to send a messenger.
At last he made up his mind to go himself to Mr. Weld, at South-
ampton. He set off the same afternoon, and, passing through London,
reached Southampton the next day, and drove from thence to Archers
Lodge, the residence of Mr. Weld; but before entering tIle grounds he
saw Mr. Weld at a short distance from his gate, walking towards the town.
Dr. Cox immediately stopped the carriage, alighted, and was about
to address Mr. Weld, when he prevented him by saying:-
"You need not say one word, for I know that Philip is dead.
Yesterday afternoon I was walking with my daughter, Katherine, and
we suddenly saw him. He was standing on the path, on the opposite
side of the turnpike road, between two persons, one of whom was a
* In the present issue, this case replaces one where further examination
thowed an apparently fundamental error in one of the dates.
Digitized by Coogle
'1884.] A Theory of Apparitiolls. 181
youth dressed in a black robe. My daughter was the first to perceive
them and exclaimed, 'Oh, papa! did you ever ilee anything so like
Philip as that is 7' •Like him,' I answered, 'why it is him.' Strange
to say, my daughter thought nothing of the circumstance, beyond that
we had seen an extraordinary likeness of her brother. . We walked on
towards these three figures. Philip was looking, with tJ smiling, happy
expression of countenance, at the young man in a black robe, who was
shorter than himself. Suddenly they all seemed to me to have vanished;
I saw nothing but a countryman, whom I had before seen tlvrCJ'UfJh the
three figures, which gave me the impression that they were spirits. I, how-
ever, said nothing to anyone, as I was fearful of a.Ia.rm:ing my wife. I
looked out anxiously for the post the following morning. To my delight,
no letter came. I forgot that letters from Ware came in the after-
noon, and my fears were quieted, and I thought no more of the extra-
ordinary circumstance until I saw you in the carriage outside my gate.
Then everything returned to my mind, and I could not feel a doubt
that you came to tell me of the death of my dear boy."
The reader may imagine how inexpressibly astonished Dr. Cox was
at these words. He asked Mr. Weld if he had ever before seen the
young man in the black robe at whom Philip was looking with such a
happy smile. Mr. Weld answered that he had never before seen him,
but that his countenance was so indelibly impressed on his mind that
he was certain he should have known him at once anywhere. .
Dr. Cox then related to the a1Bicted father all the circumstances of
his son's death, which had taken place at the very hour in which he
appeared to his father and sister; and they felt much consolation on
account of the placid smile Mr. Weld had remarked on the countenance
of his son, as it seemed to indicate that he had died in the grace of
God and was, consequently, happy.
Mr. Weld went to the funeral of his son, and as he left the church,
after the sad ceremony, looked round to see if any of the religious
at all resembled the young man he had seen with Philip, but he could
not trace the slightest likeness in any of them.
About four months after, he and his family paid a visit to his
brother, Mr. George Weld, at Seagram Hall, in Lancashire.
One day he walked with his daughter Katherine to the neighbouring
village of Chipping, aud after attending a service at the church called
on the priest.
It was a little time before the rev. father was at leisure to come
to them, and they amused themselves meantime by examining the prints
hanging on the walls on the room. Suddenly, Mr. Weld stopped before
a picture which had no name, that you could see, written under it (as the
frame covered the bottom), and exclaimed, "That is the person whom
I saw with Philip; I do not know whose likeness this print is, but I
am certain that it was that person whom I saw with Philip."
The priest entered the room a few moments afterwards, and was im.
mediately questioned by Mr. Weld concerning the print.
He answered that it was a print of St. Stanislaus Kostka, and sup.
posed to be a very good likeness of the young saint.
Digitized by Coogle
182 .A. Theory of .A.pparition8. [May 28,
Mr. WeIll was much moved at hearing this, for St. Stanislaus was a
Jesuit, who died when quite young, and Mr. Weld's father having been
a great benefactor of that Order, his family were supposed to be under
the particular protection of the Jesuit saints; also, Philip had been led of
late, by various circumstances, to a particular devotion to St. Stanislaus.
Moreover, St. Stanislaus is supposed to be the especial advocate of
drowned men, as is mentioned in his life.
The rev. father instantly presented the picture to Mr. Weld, who.
of course, receiv&d it with the greatest veneration,and kept it until his death.
His wife valued it equally, and at her death it passed into the
possession of the daughter who saw the apparition at the same time he
did, and it is now in her possession.
In answer to an inquiry as to whether she had ever had other
hallucinations of the senses, Miss Weld replied that the above was
a totally unique experience.*
We have no explanation of the third phantasmal figure; but the
apparition of the second figure seems to lend itself with special facility
to the telepathic hypothesis; since we can conceive that the idea of his
favourite saint may have been actually present to the mind of the
drowning man.
Our theory of Apparitions has, we hope, been now made sufficiently
clear. It of course makes no claim to be exhaustive. Resting as
it does on an experimental basis, we think that it ought to be pressed
to the furthest possible point; but we are far from dogmatically
asserting that all phantasmal indications of death are of identical
nature, and that becuse Thought-transference explains some of them,
it must needs explain all. Just as' morhid phantasms may be
variously produced by fe"er, by insanity, by opium, so also veridical
phantasms may be ultimately traceable to more than one originating
cause. But whatever further departures may hereafter be needful.
* The following reference to the same incident, from a physician
residing at Florence, is useful as illustrating the slight inaccuracies which
may creep into a narra.tive, without the least affecting the essential point:-
"I was mentioning this" (i.e" a similar case) "to Baron F., or rather we
were talking over the incidents connected with it, when he told me of a strange
occurence which happened at the school were he was, near Ware, in
England, a Catholic college,-president a Dr. Cox. There was a boy
there of the name of Weld, a very well·known Catholic family. This
boy was accidentally drowned. The father and mother were at the time
at Southampton, and on the day in question were walking on the Quay
near the shipping. They suddenly saw the said boy approaching, and
hurried to meet him, but immediately he appeared to fade away, so that
they could see the masts of the ships, and through what had seemed to be
his body. The next day, or the day following, Dr. Cox called on them.
when Mr. Weld said, "I know why you are here, it is to tell me that
my son is dead; I saw him yesterday, and knew then that he had
departed."
Digitized by Coogle
1884.J .A. Theor!l of Apparitions. 183:
we trust that the generalisations already made will continue valid.
We trust that permanent acceptance will be accorded to the thesis
that some of those hallucinations of one or more of the senses, which
correspond with objective events at a distance, and which we there-
fore term veridical, are caused by a telepathic impact conveyed from
th~ mind of an absent agent to the mind of the percipient, and'
rendering itself cognisible by the percipient's senses in various stages
of externalisation, and with various admixtures of a dreamlike or
symbolical element. We claim that this thesis possesses the prima-
facie characteristics of a true scientific generalisation. It is not
contradictory of any previously established law; it has been vaguely
foreshadowed by many earlier observers; it is more or less directly
confirmed by two separate lines of actual experiment-those, namely,
which indicate the existence of a similar reception of impressions
in the normal and in the hypnotic state; and it 'adapts itself to
facts recorded for centuries in all quarters of the globe, and forming
a convergence of testimony without any possible concert or pre-
arrangement. The theory will, we hope, be discussed, modified, and
extended by many persons capable of dealing with it in all its
bearings. Meantime, there is little to be learnt from the mere a
priori negation with which it is sometimes met, and which would..
without inquiry, explain all telepathic experiments by fraud, and all
veridical hallucinations by mere chance-coincidence. This position of
pure negation, indeed, becomes daily more difficult to maintain, as
experiments are multiplied and death-wraiths recur. The force of
a priori denunciation such as this lies muinly in its first confident
expression, and in the amount of diffused prejudice which it can
begin by arraying on its side. Time fights for inductive reasoners;.
and if (as we may fairly hope) an increasing body of informants
continue to supply us with the first-hand evidence on which our
induction depends, we may trust that each year will make ollr
position stronger, and our own views more clear.
But we must find space before we close for one or two of the reflec-
tions to which the narratives cited in these papers naturally give rise-
reflections which may jar, we fear, alternately on some religious
and on some scientific prepossessions, but which lUay not be unacceptable
to those who hold that these two modes of regarding the universe
do but point from different sides to a higher, a reconciling unity.
In the first pI.tce, then, with all respect to those who in every
age have held these death-wraiths as proof of a special Providence
-intimations of the pitying indulgence of a beneficent Power-we
must say that the evidence, as presented to us, does not seem to sup-
port the conclusion. Such indulgence would involve some distinct
reference to the percipient's affections and emotions. But in Mr.
Digitized by Coogle
184 A Theory 0/Apparitiom. [May 28,
Marchant's case, for instance, there was no question of affection; and.
the only emotions that his experience caused him were surprise an(l
.curiosity. Can we suppose that his old employe was expressly
permitted to overstep the lot of man, merely to manifest himself on an
errand so bootless, and as a phantom so undesired 1 No, even in this
hyperphysical region, and in the very vauguard of our advance upon
the Unseen, we are forced to believe that Dieu n'agit pas par des
'lJolontes particulieres-we are forced to surmise the presence of a law
which, though obscure, is immutable; which is a factor in the fabric of
things, and was not framed, nor is suspended, in the special interest of
anyone of us.
But, at the same time-and now we fear that a certain section of
the scientific world may in their turn find our suggestions distasteful-
the theory of telepathy does undoubtedly afford an unexpected support
to a certain school of religious conceptions. For there are two very
·different theological views (often obscured by vagueness of language) as
to the manner in which unseen powers exercise influence on the visible
world. Some dogmatists have insisted that such influence is, in the
. strictest sense of the word, miraculous; that it involves a 8U8pension of
the laws of nature, an inteiference with the established course of things;
and that, in fact, on such non-natural or miraculousw character its
sanctity and value depend. Now against this creed, Telepathy, like
any other correlation under law of facts previously supposed to be
a.rbitrary exceptions to law, does bllt accumulate one more presumption.
But there have been other theologians, from Augustine to Archbishop
Trench, who have formulated the claim of theology in a wiser way.
Such men maintain that an influence is in truth exercised by the
invisible on the visible world; but that it is exercised according to laws,
which, though unknown to 'US, do in fact regnl~te and determine the
action of higher intelligences, whose volition thus interve;}es in
human affairs in a fashion as strictly conditioned as any volitions of
our own.
Now the evidence which we have been discussing certainly does not
supply any direct confirmation of this view either. We have frond no
need to postulate the existence of any intelligences except hUl.1I.an minds,
and human minds, not in hell or heaven, but on earth as we know
them. But, nevertheless, if other intelligent beings besides those
Tisible to us do in fact exist-if man's own soul survives the tomb-
then, no doubt, our telepathic experiments and our collected cases of
a.pparitions, interpreted as we interpret them, do suggest analogies of
influence, modes of operation, which (it is hardly too much to say)
wonld throw a quite novel light over the long controversy between
Science and Faith. It is only in some form of idealism that that con-
troversy can find a close. And we are far too sensible of the problem
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] .A.. TlIeory oj Apparition8. 185-
involved in the relation of our own will to the facts and forces of
nature to meet any idealistic hypothesis of the relation of other wills to
those facts and forces with a direct denial. We cannot call a hypothesis
unphilo80pM.cal-however much unproved-if it introduces into the
great problem no difficulty which is not already there, and is compatible
-which the cruder theory of miracle is not-with the known facts of
the universe, viewed in that connected manner which alone can give·
stability to thought.
But w.e shall do more than indicate this line of reflection. W6!
have no wish to take wing as chinruP:rre bombinantes in vacuo-full-blown
explainers of the universe-but rather to be accepted as hewers of
wood and drawers of water in a territory which inductive science has yet
to clear for her own. Nay, we have preferred to submit to the incon-
venience of an arbitrary restriction of our subject, rather than to risk
the dangers which might attend its further extension. Of apparitions
ajteT deatl~ we say nothing here; we choose rather to defer all discus-
sion of such evidence as is alleged for them (though we receive and
examine it) until we have learnt everything that it may be possible to
learn of those phantasms 0/the living which do not tempt us among
8.eaencies so obscure and unknown. It is true that even of these inci-
dents death is the central fact. It is in this profoundest shock which
human life encounters that these phantasms are normally en-
gendered ; and, where not in death itself, at least in one of those special
moments, whether of strong mental excitement or of bodily collapse,
which of all living experiences come nearest to the great crisis of disso-
lution. Following the track not only of logical sequence but of imagin-
ative interest, our evidence has carried us from the slightest to the
gravest of human things, from the curiosities of an afternoon to the
crises of a lifetime, from petty experiments and seemingly aimless.
mysteries up to the experience which there is no refusing, and into the
heart of the supreme mystery which surrounds and overshadows us
whether we speculate about it or no. But in the light of advancing
knowledge that mystery may appear-if no less profound than ever-at
any rate less appalling. We have drawn on no creeds; we have
appealed to no IC supernatural agencies;" but new facts cannot leave
old facts exactly where they found them; and we have at any rate
discovered in death the great and peculiar source of phenomena which
-howeverwe interpret them-are essentially 'I1ital. With this reflection
we may pause on the threshold-vestibulum ante ipsum primisque in
faucibus Orci-till our eyes, which still can look into daylight, have
grown accustomed to the darkening air. Not here, indeed, any more
than elsewhere, shall we find the "Elysian road" which will conduct
man undoubtingly to such beliefs as his heart most craves. Centauri
in foribus 8tabulant. There will, we doubt not, as discovery replaces
Digitized by Coogle
186 A Them'!! of Apparition8. [May 28, 1884.
imagination, be found much that will startle, something that will alarm
'Or repel. But in this age, if in any, it may surely be affirmed that
" Truth, after all, is the prime passion of mankind"; and the audience,
the fellow-workers, to whom we look are those who in these deep matters
are weary alike of unproved dogma and of uninquiring negation; who
have faith enough in the methods and in the future of science to feel
confident that the same humble, candid, persistent collection and colli-
gation of facts-without disdain of the smallest things or fear of the
hardest-which in one century has so changed our outlook on the
world, may be rewarded hereafter by the opening of horizons wider
.still,-by a more indisputable insight, a more assured penetration into
-the "chief concerns of man."
Digitized by Coogle
