{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1846__south_atwood___early_magnetism.pdf","mytitle":"Early Magnetism","mylang":"de"}
^
EARLY MAGNETISM w
'
ZZ2
HIGHER RELATIONS TO HUMANITY,
VEILED IN THE POETS AND THE PROPHETS
0YO2 MA90I
in u o i r~v.*, '>b
'..
That is the great inscrutable mystery, open before all
Eyes, encompassing all space, but by no one is seen.
SChIllER.
"Enquire
I
pray thee of the former age, and prepare thyself to the search of
their fathers."— jor vm. 8.
LONDON:
H. BAILLIERE, PUBLISHER,
219, REGENT STREET,
FOREIGN BOOKSELLER TO THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF SURGEONS AND THE
ROYAL HEDICO-CHIRURGICAL SOCIETY.
PARIS
:
J. B. BAILLIERE, LIBRAIRE DE l'aCADEMIE ROYALE 1)1.
MEDECINE, RUE DE l'eCOLE DE MEDECINE.
MDCCCXLVI.
Ht/
Fill k^rtr
?>V ( / i : T J
...» • • , .' t (V,, ,
-/ ,,
DEC 26 1919
^ AjuJu^Cfu^A.
^Ci 7«& • t
</
LONDON:
Printed by Schulze and Co., 13, Poland Street.
PREFACE.
The motive which has drawn forth this small
work is, it is believed, a very ordinary one, that
of offering back again for the service of Truth,
knowledge which has been pleasurably and
gratefully gathered. In the present negative and
transitional state of the Scientific World general
approval is little hoped for ; it is therefore only
to the enlightened believing few, whose thought
ful experience has enabled them to appreciate
the great magnetical revelation of the true Light
of Nature, that the Author looks for encourage
ment to cheer his spirit, hesitating to pass on
from this Introduction to a fuller and more open
exposition of truths, bearing, as he conceives,
on the highest and best interests of the Human
Race.
Vlll PREFACE.
A translation of the few Latin quotations has
been proposed for the general reader. But as
they were appealed to and adduced by the
Author not only to sanction, but to energize and
give higher tone to his ideas, would not his
translating them be again to lose in literal dul-
ness what he sought to gain in classical point
and application ? In case, however, they should
prove troublesome to any reader, disinclined to
pass them over, prose translations are given in
notes appended to the end. Conscious want of
language to convey such yet unfamiliar concep
tions, in utterance equal and responsive to the
sense deep and newly stirred that gave them
birth, was the occasion of introducing them.
SELECT CATALOGUE
OF
WORKS ON MESMERISM,
8fc. Sfc.
LATELY PUBLISHED
BY HIPPOLYTE BAILLIERE,
219, REGENT STREET.
J. ALLISON, M.D.
Mesmerism ; its Pretentions as a Science physiologically considered. By
J. Allison, M.D. 8vo. London, 1844. Is.
*
JOHN ELLIOTSON, M.D. Cantab. F.R.S.
Numerous Cases of Surgical Operations without Pain in the Mes
meric State ; with Remarks upon the Opposition of many Members of the
Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society and others, to the reception of the
inestimable blessings of Mesmerism. By John Elliotson, M.D. 8vo.
London, 1843. 2s. dd.
The Harveian Oration, delivered before the Royal College of Physicians,
London, June 27, 1846. By John Elliotson, M.D. With an English
Version and Notes. 8vo. London, 1846. 2s. (id.
W. C. EN.GI.EDUE, M.D.
Cererral Physiology and Materialism, with the Result of the Appli
cation of Animal Magnetism to the Cerebral Organs. An Address delivered
to the Phrenological Association in London, June 20, 1842. By W. C.
Engledue, M.D. With a Letter from John Elliotson, M.D. 8vo. London,
1842. Is.
WORKS PUBLISHED BY H. BAILLIERE.
MRS. LAVINIA JONES.
The Curative Power of Vital Magnetism, verified by actual Application
to numerous Cases of Disease. By Mrs. Lavinia Jones. 18mo. London,
1845. 1s.
SANDBY & KISTE.
Mesmerism ; or, Facts against Fallacies. In a Letter to the Rev. George
Sandby. By A. Kiste. 18mo. London, 1845. Is.
HENRY STORER, M.D.
Mesmerism in Disease ; a Few Plain Facts, with a Selection of Cases.
By Henry Storer, M.D. Second Edition, 12mo. London, 1845. 2s. 6d.
M. TESTE, M.D.
A Practical Manual of Animal Magnetism ; containing an Exposition
of the Methods employed in producing the Magnetic Phenomena, with its
Application to the Treatment and Cure of Diseases. From the second
edition. By D. Spillan, M.D. Dedicated, with permission, to John
Elliotson, M.D. Cantab. F.R.S. 1 vol. post 8vo. London, 1843. 6s.
TOPHAM & WARD.
Account of a Case of Successful Amputation of the Thigh during the Mes
meric State without the knowledge of the Patient. Read to the Royal
Medical and Chirurgical Society on the 22nd November, 1842. By W.
Topham, Esq. and W. S. Ward, Esq. 8vo. 1842. Is.
REV. C. H. TOWNSHEND.
Facts in Mesmerism, with Reasons for a Dispassionate Inquiry into it.
Second edition, with a New Preface and enlarged. 8vo. London, 1844. 9s.
THEZOIST. A Journal of Mesmerism.
A Journal of Cerebral Physiology and Mesmerism, and their appli
cation to Human Welfare. Published Quarterly. Price of each Number,
2s. 6d.
This Journal contains papers by Drs. Elliotson and Engledue.
Fourteen Numbers have already appeared.
Nos. I to XII. in cloth boards, 3 vols. 8vo. 1/. 13s.
Commenced April 1, 1843.
QS!s monstrum ? IUe pius Chiron Chirurgieus omnes
Supra Nubigenas, et magni Doctor Achillis.
To make him great, and good, and understand
All things, Old Chiron takes the Youth in hand.
This Horse-man, Hero-trainer, and Bull-baiter
To comprehend, see, unde derivatur
The classic Centaur, carrying combined
Animal body and etherial mind ;
The link magnetic, though in fable sung,
"Centaur not fabulous," says Dr. Young.
EARLY MAGNETISM.
The history and philosophies of remote
antiquity are laden with a mystery so obscurely
fabled, that much of the patience and ingenuity,
which the peculiar interest of the subject has
from time to time drawn to
it,
has been wasted,
and the keenest intellects have been baffled in
endeavouring to penetrate its original idea. The
dissatisfaction with which each successive en
quirer has regarded the labours of those who
have gone before him, and the evident failure of
all to interest greatly the general mind, would
indicate that the secret intention and univer
sality which, amid all their varied imagery, so
sensibly pervades the old mythologies has not
been reached, nor the dull spiritless interpreta
tions of modern learning been able to give
a
voice to the weighty whisperings of their fable
lore.
ERRATA.
Page 17, Line 22t lor etsr- read east-
104, t», for Girting read starting
Ill, )~, for mrm read menf
2 EARLY MAGNETISM.
We have been content to regard the ancients
as strangely fanciful, and to impute to their
poets and wisest philosophers such vague and
futile imaginings as the least learned amongst
ourselves would blush to acknowledge, idly sup
posing those mystic metaphors and allusions to
be without meaning and incomprehensible, which
we could not immediately or superficially under
stand. Thus has it been well said of ancient
mythology, that it is like a vintage ill pressed ;
we have, indeed, gathered little better than the
hulls of the vineyard, having valued but for
their clothing the gods of Greece, by their mere
names seeking to sanctify our clumsy concep
tions, or to such dead original as titles, towns,
stars, watch towers and warriors, referring their
immortal progeny. the nurtured and educated of
old Chiron—that ancient school-master, who,
when again venerable as of old he shall go forth
instructing, unfolding nature, displaying her
occult physics, her mysterious centre, her
universal will—in his twofold capacity mani
festing, perfecting, shall he not people a new
Olympus and herald a golden monarchy once
more on earth ?
Then may we cease to congratulate ourselves
on the enlightenment of this age, on its practical
knowledge and diverse experiments, accumu
EARLY MAGNETISM. 3
lated with little order and uncertain aim ; and
shall not ancient wisdom, so long neglected,
again be eagerly searched out and its sacred
relics appreciated, whilst our levity and profane
interpretation of their holy breath, may teach
humility and draw forth our admiration to its
veriest bounds ? For as, by the gradual dawning
upon us of their original light, we are enabled
more and more closely to scrutinize the source
of all obscure tradition, and increasingly to
appreciate the vast intellectual labours and
reputed endowments of our early ancestors, the
less exulting shall we become in the particular
manifestation of the progressive law as respects
ourselves ; so indeed, that but for an inborn
hoping faith in ultimate perfection, and the
happy consummation of all things in eternity,
we might rather infer that the chain of universal
existence grows proportionably weaker as it
lengthens out in time.
If wisdom in its completeness has ever existed
or been cultivated in any age or country, Egypt
would be generally acknowledged as the favoured
spot ; here, if any where, severe researches were
made into the hidden principles and causes
of things, hence were avowedly derived many
Hebrew mysteries and hence in after times
though secretly and partially, the truth imparted
b 2
EARLY MAGNETISM.
itself to the master minds of Greece ; forming
for them the profound though unavowed source
of that flood of speculation which, with its inner
evidence yet darkly wrapped, has so long been the
veneration of the Western World. Little light
elapsed from the Roman tyranny, and as polite
literature gained gradual ascendency over philo
sophic pursuit, faith supplied the conviction of
known reality ; and the truth, which again
became concentrated and obscured, was frittered
away in those peripatetical abstractions, the
fallacy of which Bacon so forcibly perceived
and arrested by giving a new impetus to natural
experiment, reducing it to system and scientific
order. But, to use his own expressive words,
truly
" this inestimable gift of experience con
tinues to be carried on a slow paced ass ;" its
application is yet selfish and desultory; for
science, except in some sensible particulars and
outward adornment, it has done nothing, and
as regards humanity, it is but too evidently
sacrificed to the low and fluctuating nature of
external pursuit ; besides, however well an
abundance of facts may serve to satisfy and
furnish the mere perceptive intelligence, they do
not educate the mind, or evolve that depth and
reality of thought which, with the science of
Universals, has languished and decayed.
EARLY MAGNETISM. 5
But the result of all knowledge, whether of
error or of truth, doubtless tends for ever
onward, to diffuse the good and send forth its
experience into every condition of existence ; so
that although our limited sojourn permits us not
always to perceive the general design through
its cumbrous crust of partial operations, yet as
circle after circle passes over and disappears, it
leaves behind
it,
in its ruins, some improved
principle on which to renew itself—as thus,
though formerly, in its partial and concentrated
form, the manifestation of mind was more
powerful and brilliant, yet
is
its diffusion now
more generous, stirring, leavening, energizing
the general humanity, gaining greater strength
as
it
advances to loosen and remove through
every change of opportunity, its long worn
fetters of sense and ignorance
;
and by these
means preparing all, as we would hope, to
receive worthily, and with due advantage the free
radiation of that living light which has so long
been dimly burning and struggling within us
;
but which, every surrounding indication now
bids us believe,
is
about to shine forth with an
effulgence more than ever heretofore vigorous
and unrestrained. Life
is
everywhere quickening
around us
;
the world moves onward at
a
pecu
liar speed, accelerating as though
it
neared some
6 EARLY MAGNETISM.
/-
attracting focus ; and, though perchance far yet
within her adytum, the Genius of past wisdom
lies enchanted, the key of her magic treasury is
recovered and known.
It is curious to observe how very gradually
the phenomena, which, from its commencement,
lay hidden in the art of vital magnetism, have
been revealed to individuals, and how tardily
facts which address their reality to every sense
are being received by the public mind. The
world drawn willingly only by the dazzlings of
self-interest, rejects as obnoxious all general and
sudden enlightenment, and avoids, as it would
physical pain, the labour of thought requisite
for the bare reception of a new truth. But
beyond this it is remarkable, that without any
apparent cause, change of intention, or outward
condition, new and admirable manifestations
should have been developed, and always suc
cessively, at distant intervals, and never by one
person, or at one time been introduced ; that
Mesmer, though farther advanced than most of
his successors in knowledge of the sympathetic
and curative powers, never induced somnam
bulism ; and that the phenomena of lucidity
and prevision, now so common, should of them
selves, as it were, have followed some time
after the observation of the trance by Puysegur.
EARLY MAGNETISM. /
Be the causes what they may, we have been
slowly visited and slowly awakened to the
wonders of a new state of life and relationship,
to the experience of faculties the very reverse
of all we had been accustomed to consider
possible, and to an exhibition of power which,
while it disturbs the common current of our
ideas and eludes reason in its natural search
after simple causes, compels the astonished mind
to rise as from a long dark dream to look around
and think—and who really thinking and looking
onward over these passing intervals of doubt
and wonderment, has not strange foreshadowings
of the coming future, with forebodings full of
hope and fear for men and for humanity ? If,
without foresight or human intention, revelations
so important have already presented themselves,
what may we not anticipate as the science
advances, surely and rapidly to unfold the hidden
allegory of ages before all eyes ?
Let us, if we would shorten our pilgrimage to
the shrine of truth, and in our own persons
possess right wisdom, glance freely beyond
and beneath the slow universal movement and
popular sphere of speculation and, (except
where benevolence commands our alleviating
aid), forsaking the dangerous ground of un
learned experiment, seek from the early erudition
8 EARLY MAGNETISM.
of our inspired forefathers their jealously con
cealed practice and theoretic knowledge : let us
lay aside the pride of time and prejudice, to look
with combined reverence and scrutiny to the
few records bequeathed us, closely following up
their source through each line and metaphor,
and observing whither they almost exclusively
tend and point. And though there be not yet
granted to us the magic clue of Ariadne, we
have, nevertheless, a sure leading thread by
which we may safely enter, at least, the laby
rinth of divine philosophy ; and if it fail to
guide us to the inmost temple, yet will
it,
if
faithfully followed, conduct us to the sacred
approach, and enable us, whilst in some degree
participating, to understand that holy fervour,
aspiration, and awe, with which the high
initiated intellect of all ages has been exalted
and filled
;
and to whose regenerate purity and
righteous conception
it
has sometime been per
mitted to behold the recondite reality of all
things
;
even the beauteous shadow of that High
Archetype, from before whose throne, the rebel
Reason falls for experience
;
until, having proved
and drunken of the cup of truth, he returns
worshipping, to realise the perfect whole. Let
us then pause, and think,' and examine
;
let us
have
a
worthy object, and let
it
be scientifically
EARLY MAGNETISM. y
and systematically pursued ;
—if we would learn
the truth of other things, let us seek to know
ourselves.
When Bacon bade the searcher of knowledge
look outwardly into the maze of the Macrocosm,
it was because he saw that the human mind was
falsified by sensible images and idols, which
refracted the ravs of truth ; and at the same
time seeing no other natural means of its
emerging from this blind condition, but through
outward toil and sweat of the brow, he be
queathed to us his "Instrument" to prepare,
as he expresses
it,
a
way for the ultimate union,
Mentis et Universi. For more than two centuries
we have possessed this instrument, but have
derived from
it
very indifferent advantage
;
whether
if
its idea had been more legitimately
applied, and inductions carried up to first
sources,
it
might have led to the much to be de
sired goal remains yet to be determined. Mean
while, having already in our Hands, the far
easier link of the artificial trance whereby to
conjoin the mind to its lost universality, and
pass the consciousness regressively through its
many phases back to that long forgotten life in
reality, may we not venture, with renewed hopes
of gain and good fortune, to work once more in
the forbidden ground
?
And there, whilst apply
10 EARLY MAGNETISM.
ing our energies for internal experience, passing
behind the murky media of sense and fantasy,
we may find it no presumption to anticipate the
day, when we shall behold reflected in the
brightened mirror of our own intelligence, the
pure truth : not as it may appear individually,
or arbitrarily, but in its characteristic necessity
and universality.
We would not rashly anticipate nature, or
rest satisfied even in the theoretic persuasion,
before we have climbed the intermediate spaces
and external helps to just inference ; but as
practical means are often discovered through
speculative research, it becomes an important
aid towards the fulfilment of truth, and the
rational mind works up to and tests its idea. It
has been the fashion of modern philosophy to
regard humanity from a point of view little dig
nified, and as holding far lower and less imperial
relations to the universe than was in former
times alloted to it. Earth-born reason has
warred successfully on the Olympic gods ;
secular fact has taken place of sacred fable, and
Divinity has passed out of nature into faith.
The knowledge of antiquity was of a character
the very opposite to our own, inasmuch as it
was drawn from another spring ; whether more
or less prolific of truth, may at present rest a
EARLY MAGNETISM. 11
matter of opinion ; but in endeavouring to ex
plain their writings we have too much over
looked this fact, or, perhaps, have been igno
rant of it in its full extent. In order to attain
to a knowledge of truth, our earlier ancestors
do not appear to have had recourse, like our
selves, to external labour and experiment, but
rather to have sought it through its internal
experience; they looked on man as a microcosm
in which all external things were latent and
discoverable. Little regardful of the physio
gnomy and partial phenomena of nature, they
desired to understand her more occult and
efficient springs, and this, as is now more than
probable, by becoming themselves related to
her as a central whole.
Thus do they commonly speak, not as be
holding things speculatively, but absolutely in
themselves ; as comprehending the integral
operation of every particular in that great
chain of universal cause which, dependent from
the Supreme Will, deifies existence, whose every
link is an efficient reason, and whose whole is
the perfection of all manifested being ; and
treating on these sublime subjects with infinitely
more perspicacity and apparent exactness than
would be possible from any exterior source, or
to any mere ordinary condition of intelligence.
12 EARLY MAGNETISM.
Thus is it related of the great Proclus that,
after passing the preparatory initiations, he was
enabled to proceed to the mystic discipline of
Plato, and by the help of his preceptor Syrianus,
" to survey in conjunction with him, in orderly
progression, truly divine mysteries ; that he
made a very great progress in a very little time,
and from such discipline he increased wonder
fully in virtue, as well as in science." His
biographer, Marianus, in the following remark
able passage, shows how he gradually proceeded,
" throwing aside the instruments of sense as
vain, repressing, also, all energies through
these instruments, and liberating the soul from
the bonds of generation." He then adds,
"Proclus made a proficiency in these virtues,
as it were, by certain mystic steps, recurring
from these to such as are more telestic, being
conducted to them by a prosperous nature and
scientific discipline. For being now purified,
rising above generation, and despising its thyr
sus-bearers, he was agitated with a divinely
inspired fury about first essences, and became
an inspector of the truly blessed spectacles
which they contain; no longer collecting dis
cursively the science of them, but surveying, as
it were, by simple intuition, and beholding,
through intellectual energies, the paradigms in a
EARLY MAGNETISM. 13
divine intellect, assuming a virtue which ought
to be called wisdom, or something still more
venerable than this. The philosopher, therefore,
energizing according to this virtue, easily com
prehended all the theology of the Greeks and
Barbarians, and that which is adumbrated in
mythological fictions, and brought it into light
to those who are willing and able to compre
hend it."
It is further observed by Marianus of this
gifted and extraordinary man, that not only did
his body possess great symmetry, but a living
light, as it were, beaming from his soul, was
efflorescent in his person, and shone forth with
an admirable splendour which it is impossible
to describe ; that when lecturing his head was
perceived to be surrounded with light, and his
eyes to be filled with a fulgid splendour, and the
rest of his face to participate of divine illumi
nation : that, furthermore, being purified in an
orderly manner by the Chaldean purifications,
Proclus became an inspector of the Hecatic
visions, as he himself somewhere mentions in his
writings. By opportunely moving likewise a cer
tain Hecatic spherula, he procured showers of
rain, and freed Athens from unseasonable heat.
Besides this, he stopped an earthquake, and
other like instances of his power are recorded,
14 EARLY MAGNETISM.
as also of Pythagoras, Appollonius, Virgil, Iam-
blicus, and many of the Platonic successors.*
" High above aether, there with radiance bright,
A pure immortal splendour wings its flight :
Whose beams divine with vivid force aspire,
And leap resounding from a fount of fire.
Lo ! on my soul the sacred fire descends,
Whose vivid power the intellect extends ;
From whence, far beaming thro' dull body's night,
It soars to aether decked with starry light,
And with soft murmurs, thro' the azure round,
The lucid regions of the gods resound."
Thus moving in ecstatic unison with the celes
tial spheres, the classic mind sung in the be
holding of Universal Being, imaging out its
inspirations into free and elegant story. The
psychical powers, moving in symphony with the
Muses' choir, disposed the whole mind into har
monious measure. The magic world of volition
was unfolded ; and high in the etherial concave
of Intelligence, all Nature was beheld in her
deific Exemplar.
" Felices animae ! Quibus haec cognoscere primum
Inque domos superas scandere cura fuit,
Credibile est illos pariter, vitiisque jocisque
Altius humanis exeruisse caput."
But gods are not born of sensible conditions,
* See Taylor's Introd. to his Translation of Proclus on the
Theology of Plato.
EARLY MAGNETISM. 15
nor their energies displayed in fettered wills and
imaginations; to the freed essences of mind
alone are they truly present, developing their
orderly processions to assimilated intellect, com
prehensive of the power and glory of the Whole.
If, then, we would hope to taste anew the exal
tation and living beauty of the Antique Muse,
we must break the enchantment which isolates
us in creation ; and, emulously passing in order
the silent, initiatory, mystic rites, and rekindling
our lamp at the sacrificial altar, assemble once
again the Supreme Court on Mount Ida in all
its classic strength and magnificence :
" Sume fidem etpharetram, fies manifestus Apollo.
Accidant capiti cornua, Bacchus eris."
" Tunc ire ad mundum archetypum saepe atq. redire
Cunctarumq ; Patrem rerum spectare licebit."
Moved into this shadowly existence, and
drawn away from a knowledge of substantial
cause by the external reference of our whole
being, we are connected with nature's surface,
image, and effects, only by our senses. We
talk of Power and of Spirit indefinitely, and in-
essentially, from negative perceptions of what
they are not, without knowing, or even thinking
of what they are. We are troubled in names
and appearances as the balances of nature
change, and her forms become occult, or mani
16 EARLY MAGNETISM.
tested to sense ; all is changed and transmuted
outwardly in this world, but nothing is de
stroyed or lost, because of the immutability of
its efficient root. In the centre of all and each
existence is its true being and substance from
whence it radiates into surface manifestation ;
thus the compound crust' of matter is not true
body, but its vehicle. Is not Will the simple
substantiality of all things ; the omnia in om
nibus unparticled, homogeneous, one, in and
above all created things ; the causal universal
agent, and fountain of all multiform Idea, im
parting itself shadowly into creation, and by
generation into life ?
The Mind rightly disciplined and related to the
Universal, becomes universalized and one with
the great magnetic Will of nature ; and revolving
with the Infinite Medium through all its spheres,
developes in order its various correspondencies,
with the regular coadaptation and harmony of
its parts ; thence by participation it perceives
all things in all, and in itself microcosmically,
until at length, becoming perfectly converted to
its Principle, the divinized Epitome moves with
demiurgic power and grace.
Every living creature has its cause in itself, —
the first cause of its own individuality ; but by
the particular trespass of self-activity for mani
festation, all things are by necessity of conse
EARLY MAGNETISM. 17
quence cut off from the monadic rest A mys
tery is here unspeakable ; this fall, we are to
believe, is expiable and through man alone :
passed by discipline through the ordeal of
Wisdom and essential fire, the passive per
sonality collapses from its circumferential and
phenomenal life into that central Omnipresence
whose circumference is not.
Herein, too, may we have solved for us the
problem of free will ; not, indeed, that motive
less chimera which human fancy has sometimes
loved to frame, but the ancient all-producing
Titan freed from death, and the enchantment of
his earthly parent to be the Magnet of the mind.
As the flame to the coal, so the effect to its
cause, in perpetual manifestation, self-motive,
and eternal for ever more.
Thus much is said and thus imperfectly
developed, these suggestions are entrusted to
fate for their further unravelment, and effects
on the good and enlightened mind that may
peruse these pages ;
" Nucleum fase qui vult,
nucem frangat oportet." The thoughtless and
the vicious are, at present, too deeply busied in
worldly interests and machinations to take much
heed of speculative truth, even though it were
declared to be the fruit of observation ; they are
yet content to sleep, and pass on from dream to
c
18 EARLY MAGNETISM.
dream, forgetting the vanity of the last farce
they took a part in, whilst eagerly preparing for
the next. And so it is well ; this is the befitting
time for the Genius of good to lay aside her long
indolence, and to bestir herself; she is now
called upon for active duty, to counteract, by
one well conducted effort, the widely spread
energies of vice and ignorance ; and rallying
round her banner all her many silent votaries,
to secure by pre-occupation a science that should
be especially her own.
Science confers, or rather reveals, power only ;
it neither improves, purifies, nor is a blessing of
itself; but has its impress of good or evil
stamped by its administration and the motives
which carry it into act ; thus, in proportion to
the greatness, is the danger of a gift, and each
new light as it opens, lays on us its burden of
responsibility.
The whole activity and effort of nature is
towards the law of Equilibrium ; a preponder
ance is no sooner established, than variously by
her winds, her rains, or lightnings, she hastens
to restore the lost balance ; her will is drawn
constantly, for she loves to fill all things with
the plenitude which is in herself. Here below
it is her pleasure to fluctuate, to do, and to
undo, and never to rest perfectly; but in her
EARLY MAGNETISM. 19
Heaven is the fulfilment of the Law ; here justice
is imaged in the balance of symmetrical beauty,
whose equipoise no wanton will dare violate, or
curiosity profane ; even for the attempt, mortals
have shared the accursed confusion with the
offending giants in the shades of night.
Everything that is gained by the hand of man,
in the power of his own will, is borrowed and
lost in something else : his weight is not just
because not of the universal ; the universal
alone can work justly through man. In the
ordinary conditions of life, this infinite will can
hardly be said to be revealed, and men's actions
are, therefore, necessarily of themselves, and
their wills partake of their own character, whe
ther good or evil ; but being comparatively
inoperative and dead, their motion disturbs only
temporarily the balances of nature; but when
launched into the spontaneity of participated
efficience, the self-activity must be in abeyance,
and restrained constantly by the Law which then
moves in it. And here is the discretionary
temptation —the forbidden fruit with its choice
of good or evil.
The will of the Magnetiser passing through
the celestial medium to his patient, is, in com
parison to our ordinary experience, very effica
cious ; it has, however, this advantage merely
,c 2
20 EARLY MAGNETISM.
from moving into a free nature, the intervening
firmament of mind ; being itself, in respect of
all else, bound as ever in its human shackles.
It may be well to observe, by the way, that we
should take especial care in experiments of this
sort, one on another, remembering that a vacuum
is inevitably created somewhere by those who
wilfully trifle with the Magnetic trance, and
which must, in due time, be expiated in its
effects. Faith, that spontaneous faith which
flows freely from the well-intentioned mind, will
be found a far better and more healing influence
through the passes than any energy of will,
benevolent though it be. Let none presume to
play idly with so great a blessing as is now
restored to us ; for if we do so, and ungratefully
degrade its high origin to selfish ends, we may
beware lest with the keys of Heaven, we unlock
the easier gates of Hell.
One of the greatest evils of national poly
theism consists in the licence which it seems
to have afforded to the vulgar mind, to particu
larize its worship for self-proposed ends. Every
object that springs from selfish desire, is a false
god, a deification of our own will, which being
isolated, is ignorant of the universal good, and
breaks its operation in as far as it is able. Every
prayer that is defined by our own blind will is
EARLY MAGNETISM. 21
evil and idolatrous, because it does not co
operate with the general design and will of the
Omniscient Good and equilibrium of existence.
And this is one principle of that perfect self-
submission and humility which is so forcibly
taught us in the precept and example of the
Divine Founder of Christianity. But true unity
of worship with us is yet a name, at most a
creed, and if to worship be in spirit and in truth
to serve, we have more gods in our own passing
follies and base passions, than all the mythologic
list of Greece supplies.
" And in our mental world what chaos drear,
What forms of mournful, loathsome, furious mien,
O ! when shall that eternal morn appear,
These dreadful forms to chase, this chaos dark to clear ?"
" How is the gold become dim ! How is the
most fine gold changed !" the oil of the taber
nacle is poured out at the top of every street.
How different were the times, and how different
the mind that formerly wielded the Hermetic
wand ! When the one great object of all dis
cipline was strong enough to bear the body
through the severest tortures, and truth and
virtue were to themselves their own sufficient
goal ; when five long years of unbroken silence,
arduous contemplation, fasting, and prayer, were
22 EARLY MAGNETISM.
scarcely thought sufficient purification for those
who aspired to be initiated into the esoteric
school. These were no infidels to their convic
tions, nor dared they wear the cross in practical
idolatry, to make religion's pretext cloak a
worldly mind and aim. But it may be, that their
toil is deemed unwise, their labour fruitless.
We think that without their penance we have
got their prize ; but alas, no ! We are, it is
true, awarded above our deserts ; but so were
they—the fervent, wrapped, crucified adorers of
the one only Good.
Professing, indeed, ourselves a purer faith, but
little understanding its vital ground and convic
tion ; we have misprized these men as pagans
and polytheists, —these who, at least, felt the
mediatorial necessity, and bearing the divine
cross in patience and practical humility, looked
forward with confiding hope to its manifested
consummation. But every thing bearing rela
tion to the inner life is obscure to the unrelated
mind, and by seeking their interpretations out
wardly and afar off, we have entirely perverted
the idea of ancient theosophy and its sacred
fables.
" It would not be difficult," says an early
writer on this subject,
" to show that fables are
divine from those by whom they were employed ;
for they were used by poets, agitated by divinity,
EARLY MAGNETISM. 23
by the best philosophers, and by such as disclose
initiatory rites. In oracles also fables are em
ployed by the gods ; but why fables are divine
is the part of philosophy to investigate ; fables
assert to all that there are gods, but who they
are, and of what kind, they alone manifest to
such as are capable of so exalted knowledge."
For there is a wide difference between the arbi
trary notions of individuated mind, and the
intuitions of divine intellect ; between mytho
logy, degraded by modern commentators, and
the mystical allegory of universal truth. Has
not the most important doctrine in all ages been
delivered in parables and obscure types ? And
if these metaphoric rays have dazzled and
bewildered our feeble intelligence, how can we
hope, by our unaided vision, to penetrate to, or
endure their internal light ? Unless we can
ourselves become related to its developing con
dition, how can we expect to unravel the intri
cacies of early theogony, or without new means
and media to comprehend philosophies and
revelations, professedly emanating from the
fountain of Divinity itself? Are not all first
truths essentially occult ; or, if we think other
wise, is it not because we do not well know or
consider them ? Believing we know many things,
yet understanding nothing, we are doubly igno
24 EARLY MAGNETISM.
rant ; and time bears on wearily the burden of
a mystery.
Many elaborate treatises have been put forth
with a view to mortalize the spirit of ancient
fable ; it has been learnedly traced from age to
age and from country to country, and its origin
laid in remote occurrences and external analogies,
political, moral, astronomical, agricultural, or
otherwise, as the interpreting genius may have
inclined ; but, although their universality has
admitted and made specious every superficial
view, yet their real allusion may not so readily
meet the eye ; we have searched widely and
remotely for interpretations, too little suspecting
the constant origination and proximity of their
source. Has not the learned Jacob Bryant *
sufficiently shown the fabulous being of all early
heroes, and the manifest inconsistency of those
poetical narratives concerning them ; from which,
Herodotus, Strabo, and mankind after them,
have dated events and fixed as real eras in the
world's history ? The expedition of the Argo
nauts, for whom Chiron formed the sphere f
* Analysis of Ancient Mythology. Three vols. 4to.
t The constellation Argo which is so far down in the Southern
hemisphere, as to have heen certainly invisible to the alleged
course of that expedition, for whose especial use it was said to
have been originally framed.
EARLY MAGNETISM. 25
which has so puzzled Newton and Dr. Rutherford ;
the adventures of Theseus, Perseus, Hercules,
Dionysius, with a host of others of like
import, the Trojan war, and wanderings of
Ulysses ; are not all these plainly and entirely
by him, proved to be inventions founded in no
external actuality ? Does not all traditionary
antiquity bear an impress of allegory, rather
than of true history ; is it not, perhaps, rather
intended to image than to veil reality, to convey
idea than to colour facts and mystify occurrences ?
The symbols, ceremonies, and demigods of all
times, have too much analogy one with ano
ther, and been too universally admitted in all
countries, not to have a deeper root in humanity
than it has been in these latter ages the custom
to give them credit for ; and there are yet
concealed, under the imperfect remains of their
imagery, great, fundamental, vital, and forgotten
truths.
Some persons have been alarmed by finding
that the rites and mysteries of the Hebrews
were similar to those of prior and cotemporary
nations ; thinking it might seem to insinuate a
borrowed source, and thereby deprive them of
their sacred authority ; but this judgment
appears quite groundless ; their truth on the
26 EARLY MAGNETISM.
contrary, is rather strengthened than otherwise,
by the fact of their universality. Religious
creeds and modes of worship may indeed change,
or be borrowed by one people from another;
but their base in reality is immutable, and
always originates where it is rightly understood.
We have little faith in mere individual reveal-
ments, it is irrational to suppose that any mind
was ever truly inspired with exclusive principles ;
truth does not belong to persons or periods, but
according to the purity of the conditions, and
universality of the conception is the extent and
nature of its inspiration. How much infidelity
has sprung from the long obscuration of sacred
truths ; how then can it hardly be mischievous
that we have once more given to us a means for
unfolding them ? A clearer understanding and
experience of them will ultimately range all good
and reasonable minds on their side ; and their
general confirmation will rejoice the confiding
believer.
The Egyptian authority has been everywhere
highly venerated, but their hieroglyphics are
evidently too esoteric for profane scrutiny to
unriddle ; their philosophers generally chose the
symbolical in preference to the fabulous mode
of clothing their doctrine ; and as it is probably
EARLY MAGNETISM. 27
the deepest, so do we find it the most dark of
all, and the study has always proved bewildering
and unsatisfactory in the extreme. We have
few relics left of Egyptian learning, and these,
probably, none of the most important, for her
priests were for a long period the oracles of the
world ; and if from her smothered embers, the
Greeks were able to kindle so bright a flame :
what must have been her glory when she
flourished as a nation, and wisdom was at the
zenith of her excellence and magic power.
" O quam te dicam bonam
Antehac fuisse; tales cum sint reliquiae !"
O mother of the Art ! O land of Cham !
That the Egyptian remains have special
magnetical allusion, has been observed by many
authors on this subject ; but little has yet been
gleaned concerning their practice, except that
it must have differed in many respects from our
own. It is frequently observable that the three
first fingers only of the hand are extended, the
other two being bent down on the palm, and in
some figures even designedly broken off ; this is
the case in the Indian idols, who, with their
many arms and hands are always in mag
netical postures. Each finger has its different
28 EARLY MAGNETISM.
hieroglyphic ; the whole hand is generally-
extended for healing or blessing ; but when the
image is rather of will or power, the thumb and
two first fingers only are employed.* The general
impression conveyed by their symbols is mystical
and sacred, and more seldom curative. The
animals they worshipped were probably in no
ordinary state of being, but had become, as they
considered, divinized by being moved into and
under the universal will.
* We would here note too, the mysteries of the Dactyli
Idaei (literally the fingers of Mount Ida) so celebrated amongst
the Greeks and Asiatics, and concerning which mythological
personages, Strabo and Diodorus, give particular account.
The Cretans paid them divine honours for having nursed and
brought up Jupiter, whence some suppose them to have been
the same as the Corybantes and Curetes ; accounts, however,
vary, and concerning their number some say they were ten j
five brothers, and as many sisters ; others, that like the horned
Centaurs there were one hundred of them who worked together
at the foot of Mount Ida. They are said to have been magicians,
and addicted to mystical ceremonies, and that Orpheus was
their disciple and carried their mysteries into Greece ; that,
moreover, " the Dactyli of Asia were peculiarly famous for
their skill in the healing art, so that their name indeed was
synonymous with that of the Healers." Diodorus relates that
they surprised the people of Samothracia with an exhibition of
their wonders during the initiatory rites, which consisted in
trials more or less strong adapted to the capacity of the aspi
rants.
EARLY MAGNETISM. 29
The Arkite mysteries, so anciently celebrated
in this and most other Gentile nations, were
obviously, from the accounts transmitted to us,
strangely and practically significative of the
saving and renovating power of the universal
Spirit, variously personified as Isis, Ceres,
Damater, Minerva, Archia, Beroe, &c. The
stay in the ark was bewailed as a state of tem
porary death, and the going forth, which was
accompanied with mystic foretokens, was hailed
as a re-birth and purification not dissimilar in
idea from our baptismal form. All the heroes
are reported to have passed through an expe
rience of this kind, and to have gained some
great object by the passage ; they were many of
them said to be originally born at Thebes, which
was a name of the ark, as also Arkeus, or
Archeus. A little attention to derivations may
serve to clear many minor difficulties ; for there
are diverse manifestations, though but one
spirit reigning paramount through and over all,
the fountain of divine life and light, Magna
Deum. Mater, and restoring ordeal of all created
things.
" jEon came near, the sage of ancient days,
iEon, a prophet famed, who gently reached
His aged hand to Beroe, and withdrew
The veil of justice which obscured her brow,
30 EARLY MAGNETISM.
Then loosened all her bands ; JEon had seen
Age after age in long succession roll,
But, like a serpent which has cast his skin,
Rose to new life in youthful vigour strong.
Such the reward which Themis gave the man
Washed in her healing waters."
The philosophic mythology of Greece is
wholly free from the objections which poetic
licence has cast upon the generally accepted
story of its gods ; the freedom and irony of
which has given a handle to prejudice, and,
unfortunately, thrown a slur over the whole.
But, extravagant as are many of its conceptions,
and far out of the common road of thought,
yet have we no good reason to consider them as
altogether fanciful, or even in their kind inexact.
Truth casts its allegory, as do objects their
shadow, in the sun-light, gracefully deformed.
It would be easy to expatiate on this subject,
and bring forward particular evidence as to the
references of many of the old writers ; but in
the present state of science and incredulity of
the public mind, it might be premature and
inexpedient, independently of the hazard of
wearying the reader with unfamiliar reflections,
and details which would now, perhaps, be con
sidered as irrelevant or uninviting.
But not poetry itself has ever reached, much
EARLY MAGNETISM. 31
less exaggerated the surpassing reality ; and for
those to whom such inquiries may still be
attractive, or who have had the glowing and
more true impressions of early youth unwill
ingly disappointed by the cold externality of our
learned commentators, a deeper and more purely
allegorical consideration of classical tradition,
may be grateful and encouraging to further
research ; for the subject becomes more and
more alluring as it opens, exalting and extending
the ranges of thought, our hopes are renewed
of beholding for ourselves its well-spring of
truth ; and in it reflected, the promise of a new
existence for man, with the image of a happier
and yet unseen world ;
" Though from our birth the faculty divine
Is chained and tortured, cabbin'd cribb'd, confin'd,
And bred in darkness, lest the truth should shine
Too brightly on the unprepared mind,
The beams pour in ; and time and skill will couch the
blind."
The occult spring of mystic allegory moves as
we apply the master-key ; the first door opens,
and we stand once more on the threshold of
nature's laboratory. Secret knowledge is now
becoming public ; sacred mysteries may be re
vealed to the profane, and truths long since
32 EARLY MAGNETISM.
wrapped in hieroglyphics and buried in pyra
mids, be declared in the common type and in the
common tongue. There have been those who
have dreaded this day, and anticipating its
coming, have prophecied sadly and seriously
respecting it ; nor is the spirit now dead that
formerly dictated secresy in these matters. The
entire causes of such cautions may as yet be
unknown, or but dimly perceived, even by those
practically acquainted with the nature of mag
netism ; but they who carelessly rank its reveal-
ments and consequences amongst the many dis
coveries and mere inventions of the day, have
thought little and superficially, as time will
show.
It is, however, no less irrational than painful
to dread the results of inevitable enlightenment,
for we cannot see far or clearly enough into
consequences to justify mistrust in the provident
necessity of nature and events as they take
place ; and now that the flood-gates are irre
versibly opened, we must, with all faith in
humanity, encourage the stream to flow freely
onward, so that all may become instructed as
fully and as quickly as possible ; and increased
knowledge be thus made to direct a power which
no external coercion can secure or suppress,
and that the restraint, (if such it must be called
EARLY MAGNETISM. 33
which prevents the doing of evil), may be found
in the exaltation of our moral nature; for outward
laws, as respects this, must continue as they ever
have been unavailing, since they cannot arrest
or determine the secret will. The protective
power and beneficial impulse are implanted
within us ; where they are dormant they must be
aroused, and obvious interest every where pre
vent abuse, for man holds a power that for
bids him to be the enemy of his fellow,
and the facts now unfolding must moralize the
world.
Vast truths have been declared to us, and
many facts transmitted which, we being igno
rant of their ground of possibility, have disbe
lieved and neglected ; though in many instances
we may now observe, the great amount of
intelligent testimony should have taught more
diffidence, as supporting mere vain fables,
it would be as a greater wonder, than that the
said fables should prove to be unexplained
truths. But it is not to modern pride and
ignorance alone that the loss of so much valu
able knowledge is to be imputed ; for the special
policy of the Ancients respecting it has doubt
less contributed not a little to this remarkable
retrogression. The priests of all religions hold
ing such science as their especial prerogative,
D
34 EARLY MAGNETISM.
and being well aware that with it they held ex
clusive power, were mutually interested in with
holding it from the people ; and this motive, to
gether with their vigilant training, secret initia
tion, and life-bound oath, conspired with the
bond of power to enforce fidelity and render
them watchful and ingenious in finding means
to prevent its diffusion out of their own body.
Learned men, if not exactly guided by priestly
motives, have been nevertheless influenced by
them ; the dread of envy and persecution, with
certain conscientious fears of the results that
might arise from showing to the ignorant truths
which they were ill prepared to receive, and to
the immoral, powers which they might fearfully
abuse, induced them to employ abstruse terms
in dead languages, with passages of hidden or
double meaning ; and for the entire veiling of
the deeper esoteric experience, and securing of
exoteric mystery, they had recourse to particular
hieroglyphics and cabalistic signs. These sacred
sciences have nevertheless existed in all ages,
and been successively revived or degraded ac
cording to the hands into which they have
fallen ; principles having at intervals been
neglected, and low means only retained and
resorted to by inferior minds, they have fallen
into contempt, becoming proscribed as vile and
EARLY MAGNETISM. 35
magical ; whilst their professors, mere
" artizans
of miracles," have debased their profession,
until at length, scepticism set its seal on all
wonders, and miracles were suppressed by
opposed convictions.
We may find on investigation that there has
been less direct falsehood and more craft in the
world formerly than has been generally sup
posed ; and truth artfully veiled has, to simple
minds, borne a semblance of falsehood, and been
despised as such ; thus. too we have been led
on to extremes of doubt and credulity, according
as individual temperament and the fashion of
the age may have inclined. But let us not too
hastily condemn, as faithless or illiberal, the
wary philosophic spirit which, seeing the pre
ponderance of natural evil in the world, and the
prevalence of human debasement, has in all
ages wrapped in parabolic types the deepest
theosophic knowledge ; not from any mistrust
in it or its legitimate conclusions, but from a
dread of its desecration in human selfishness.
It is true, modern science has been more
lavish of her discoveries, but then they lose in
import what she gains in liberality ; for though
she have faithfully served us in her outward
sphere, and still on a little while longer may
flourish, and boast of her astronomy which has
d 2
36 EARLY MAGNETISM.
eclipsed the judiciary astrology of Ptolemy and
Pythagoras, of her experimentalism which has
rendered it impossible to jugglers and sorcerers
any longer to perform miracles, or of her che
mistry, which has destroyed the alchemical
chimera ; yet what does all this signify ? Every
thing intrinsical is hidden from our mode of
search ; we are experienced only in outward
qualities and accidents ; sciences have super
seded each other in time and locality, and we
have been prone to contemn those which we
could neither attain to or understand. Taken
in the aggregate, the modern study of mankind
has not been man ; and herein do our opinions
and conclusions most widely differ from those
of the Ancients with whom the nosce te ipsum
regulated the thoughts and efforts of the greatest
minds, all other indeed being esteemed secon
dary and worthless in comparison.
The meagreness and insufficiency of our phi
losophy becomes daily more apparent, and facts
press us fast onward to seek anew from nature
an explanation of her marvels ; it is not the
superstitious alone who pervert facts to favour
their prejudices : as often is sophistry found
under the mask of philosophy, and nature her
self warped and misrepresented to suit the in
dividual judgments and assertions of those who
EARLY MAGNETISM. 3/
discard, indeed, supernatural interposition, but
to supply it with arbitrary or insufficient caus
ation ; and who though weak in faith, are scep
tically credulous, and so often choose the harder
side. Reason must exert herself afresh ; for if
she pass not quickly the barrier within which
partial observation has held her, she will cease
to triumph as heretofore, in many minds,
over vulgar experience ; we have warred long
enough with internal instincts, traditions, and
even with the impressions of sense when
these have not fallen in with our ideas of
rationality ; and in very faithlessness have de
graded science, and given her over to the service
of those petty projects and small interests which
have practical sway in this sensible world.
Though the more refined operations of nature
are hidden from our obtuser senses, they need
not be from our understanding ; we are not in
capable of at least an intellectual appreciation
of those finer agencies which escape common
susceptibility, and are sensibly manifested only
in the effects. Influences, however apparently
subtle, are only so relatively to less refined
subjects ; for things are affected by their simi
lars ; that which is gross affects outward sense,
that which is mental, cerebral sense ; and so on
even to the finest projections of reason towards
38 EARLY MAGNETISM.
Intelligibles ; by which we are mentally carried
back to the superstantial in all things. The less
grossly palpable any body is, the more simple
and essentially potent does it become. "Maxima
de nihili visitu fulgura fiunt." All observation, in
short, tends to refine our notions, not only of
causal being, but of its unfolding into physical
action ; passing the disputed question of the
materiality of mind or powers of thinking, we
are led to speculation on the essentiality of thought
itself; from conjectures concerning the natural
generation and mechanical suggestion of ideas
in the brain, to their fixed entity, actual ema
nation, and constant transmission to distant
objects.
" Wis viva acres, nee papula parva, sed ignis,
Trajector nebulae, et vasti penetrator operti."
All perceptions perhaps require to be ex
perienced in some degree before their idea can
be truly conveyed, or their verbal expression
become quite intelligible ; but once forced by
observation beyond the limits of ordinary ex
perience, it matters little how far ; as whatever
phenomena present themselves, inscrutable
though they be by present knowledge, we are
assured they do not transgress the order of
nature. Have we not facts of transportive
EARLY MAGNETISM. 39
imagination enough to satisfy the boldest poetic
fancy, or the ardent eloquence that long since
declared that man contains within him all the
powers of nature ; from his being, as a centre,
bearing relation to the whole, the universe is
reflected in his little world.
The multitude, unpractised in matters of
subtle reasoning and speculation, are incapable
of perceiving aright any thing except as it out
wardly affects them ; in practical appliances
they always go astray, in default of the first
movement of the leading few ; the pioneers are
the responsible conductors of the march; and the
early enlightened advocates of Mesmerism may,
all more or less if they be active and earnest,
image out into its general application the good
which each individually desires.
The power of the operator's will in changing
the dispositions and habits of the sleepwaker,
(though for reasons above offered, very dange
rous ground for experiment), cannot, as a fact,
be too well noted ; it is a true, though feeble
and partial type of the renovating power of that
all-pervading, educating, disciplining, purifying,
Vital Spirit, which in former ages of the world
was dignified with the name of Wisdom ; and of
whose concentrated power all our external
40 EARLY MAGNETISM.
efforts for progress and amendment are but the
dead and comparatively ineffective shadows.
" Sed fortasse aliquis qiiKrit, sapientia quid sit,
Nil aliud certe est, nisi prima scientia per quam
Mens pura, et nullo mortali pondere pressa,
Libera terrenis affectibus, atria cceli
Scandit, et etheria cum diis versatur in aula,
Omnia despiciens prorsus mortalia tanquam
Frivola, et assidue tendens velut ignis in altum."
" Such," says M. Gauthier, speaking on this
point,
" such are the unheard of benefits of
magnetism, that faults which were excessively
prominent previous to the somnambulic state,
no longer existed in the awakened patient."*
For such observations as these the science of
phrenology may be available ; as, if the inten
tion gradually works itself into manifestation
through the organism, as might be expected,
corresponding changes of development may be
fairly and satisfactorily tested. Considered as a
collection of inductive facts, few will probably
now presume to deny the eminent usefulness
and truth of phrenology ; but the zeal of some
of its advocates has certainly been over and
above, in claiming for it exclusive authority in
* See Traite Pratique du Somnambulisms. A. Gauthier.
Paris, 184S.
^>
EARLY MAGNETISM. 41
mental science. Without by any means sup
plying, or being able to supply, the place of the
elder metaphysics, phrenologists have openly
condemned and set aside its labours, and that
in a sphere of observation eminently above their
own. By its very external nature, phrenology
can never become definite enough to appreciate
the finer manifestations, much less the essential
laws of mind which consciousness reveals to us ;
and admitting that consciousness is liable to
err in individuals—is not sensible observation so
too ? But when metaphysicians err, it is not
so much in consciousness, for this in its depth
is uniform in all, but in their inferences and
conclusions drawn by the partial and contingent
nature of reflective reason ; and to this objection
phrenology is also open in common with all
objective science. The assertion of some phre
nologists that their " discovery has supplied the
great desideratum of metaphysical accuracy and
precision," is a very singular and grave mistake.
Accuracy and precision do not belong to such
manifested particulars and unstable system of
organs, as phrenologists dispute about even
amongst themselves. All experimental fact,
and this from its relations above all, is to be
respected ; but when carried above its ground,
it is in danger of becoming empirical, vaunting
42 BARLY MAGNETISM.
itself to the prejudice of investigations above
the limits of its capacity.
The internal principles about which meta
physics are conversant, the relations and asso
ciations of ideas, in short all experience in
subjectivity can only, if at all, be reached by
the mind in abstract contemplation of itself;
that which we need is the right image and
revelation, and this we shall obtain when the
true conditions are supplied. Now it is believed,
and on no light evidence, that the magnetic
trance affords, nay, is itself, when justly and
perseveringly ordered for that end, the meta
physical condition, pre-eminently perfect. It
removes the sensible obscuration, and presents
a clearer glass before the mind than it can ever
regard in the natural state. The patient is no
sooner lightly entranced, than he begins to feel
an internality never before known to him, and
which may be increased with more or less effect
according as the intention is fixed, and the
calibre of the minds and circumstantial condi
tions are favourable or otherwise ; though under
the simple ordinary operation of one agent and
patient, the work will hardly become universal.
" Take first the beam from out thine own eye,
and then thou shalt see clearly to remove the
mote which is in thy brother's eye."
EARLY MAGNETISM. 43
" Non bene tractantur musee prope perque fenestras
Vix in sole solent, atque valere foro ;
Nee media ridere die, vel luce favere,
Sol lux ac homines ad joca multa trahunt
Sic praimda forum, sudam simul atque platea?
Major et e musis tunc quoque messis erit."
That the Pythagoreans, Platonists, and all the
intellect of that time, had recourse to this
mode of vision is now very evident from their
writings ; and however much their systems
may appear to vary in particulars, they had one
esoteric root, in which they all by co-knowledge
agreed, and by means of which they gained
higher elevation in science, with more melody
of thought and eloquence for its expression than
we, with all our labours and enlightenment,
have ever dreamed of, or had capacity to appre
ciate. For these could compel the Muses' in
spiration, and move the spheres to give it birth ;
for them the Olympic gods assumed their deity,
and all the heroes their mighty labours. In
their Hand was the power of all experience,
the including firmament of every space, the
nucleus of all things to be unfolded in time.
Chiron prepared them for the Elysian Heaven,
or Charon wafted them to the Tartarean shades ;
" PALMAque nobilis,
Terrarum dominos
Evehit ad deos !"
44 EARLY MAGNETISM.
" Haec via scintillans sublustri nocte retecta,
Innumeris nitido caelo rutillissima stellis,
Sapphirina cluet sat cognita frondibus ipsis,
Manibus hoc iter est felices ad arva palati
Secretumque thronum noctuque diuque piorum,
Succensis genium facibus celebrantur hypoethrae ;
Haec siquidem locus est, quem sides jura poesi,
Haud timeam sedes divum dixisse senatus."
To a mind merely practical, every universal
proposition appears abstract, because it does not
regard the true nature of things ; yet were it
not for these so styled abstractions, we should
be inevitably plunged in the abyss of Pyrrho
nism. Every conclusion of reason has its evi
dence in faith : that is to say, all inquiry rests
in a universal idea, a fundamental axiom of
mind, without appeal ; we believe in these as we
believe in our own identity, simply because we
cannot do otherwise ; the laws of demonstration,
mathematical for instance, are primary and
spontaneous, subsisting by virtue of their own
inherent necessity. These ideas, though they
may seem to be first excited by, cannot be de
rived from sense ; they are laws of causality,
perfect in themselves, prior to, and determining
all sensible particulars ; and we dare not ques
tion the last grounds of their intuition ; they are
the natural revelation of the \oyot in man, the
light which lightens every man that cometh
EARLY MAGNETISM, 45
into the world. Reflective reason is personal,
partial, and erring ;
—divine intuition is imper
sonal, universal, and can never err.
" In truth," observes Fenelon, " my reason is
in myself, for it is necessary that I should con
tinually turn inward upon myself in order to
find it ; but the higher reason which corrects
me when I need
it,
and which
I
consult,
is
not
my own,
it
does not make specially
a
part of
myself. Thus, that which may seem most our
own, and to be the foundation of our being,
I
mean our reason,
is
that which we are to be
lieve most borrowed. We receive at every
moment
a
reason superior to our own, just as
we breathe an air which
is
not ourselves. There
is
an internal school, where man receives what
he can neither acquire outwardly for himself
nor learn of other men who live by alms like him
self." Thus
is
the supreme reason found to rule in
all things universally
;
as in man made manifest,
beyond the control or modifying energy of his
personal will, fixed, fontal, and everlasting.
It
is
a
truth admitted by metaphysicians,
that
if
the Absolute be without the sphere of
possible knowledge, philosophy must be always
regarded as
a
mere phenomenal and delusive
pursuit. To this last conclusion, however, the
46 EARLY MAGNETISM.
human mind is naturally very loth to assent,
and many and ingenious are the theories by
means of which it has endeavoured to assure
to itself a capacity above ordinary conditions
and modes of thought ; yet every supporter of
the positive side of the question has had his
successful objectors on the other, so that the
matter yet rests, and is much despaired of by
the general reason of mankind.
That a truth so necessary as to be instinctively
present in every mind, and as inferentially
involved in the fact of outward existence, as the
unit is concluded from its dependent plurality,
should be denied as an affirmative to human
reason may at first consideration appear strange
and improbable ; yet so it is : by the transitive
activity of individual thought, it is precluded
from a positive knowledge of the essential unity
towards which it tends.
The knowledge which is absolutely one, can
not be attained in the personal consciousness,
since this, by the necessity of its participated
nature, is only cognizant under an antithesis of
subject and object ; and thus conditionated,
beholds itself and all other things only as rela
tive phenomena, that is, as they appear imaged
by itself to itself, and never in simple identity
of thought and being. The Absolute, being but
EARLY MAGNETISM. 47
one, and its knowledge consequently but one,
can be truly known only in itself, the fountain
of thought ineffable, subverting all expression.
Its shadow, in us, recedes constantly behind
the secondary unity of our intelligence ; by en
deavouring to convey we instantly dismiss it,
and by reflecting while yet on the verge of its
conception, we annihilate the inspiration.
The German metaphysicians, Schelling more
especially, pressed by the difficulties which thus
disable the personal consciousness and prevent
it from transcending the limits of rational infe
rence, despised its trammels, and relinquishing
it and them together, asserted the existence of a
higher faculty in man, by which he is enabled
to surpass all conscious thought, and come at
once into identified relationship with essential
being ; a state in which all difference of subject
and object becoming merged, the Unconditioned
is known absolutely in itself. This sublime
capacity of mind, moving one with the Infinite,
they have named the Intellectual Intuition.
In order to its refutation, it is said that this
species of unconscious intuition is impossible ;
because by the annihilation of consciousness,
we destroy thought itself, which takes away
with it all possibility and imagination of true
being : that the Intuition is therefore a chimera,
48 EARLY MAGNETISM.
a pure abstraction, and not a real subsis
tence.
An eminent French author and philosopher,
M. Cousin, already awakened to these objec
tions, yet still desirous for the honour of philo
sophy and innate assent of the human mind, to
retain, if possible, the positive ground, has ven
tured to draw down the Intuition once more into
human consciousness, even in its ordinary con
ditions ; but this effort would seem to have been
unsuccessful.* By drawing the pre-existent
reality into its posterior image, the theory ob
scures its own object, and brings about the
reverse dilemma of the Intuition, in that it con-
ditionates the unconditioned. How can it be
possible for the effect to know its cause in its
separated individuality, unless it be by inference ?
Spontaneity of perception, however nearly it
may verge, and truly reflect the subjective
image, is not in thought co-essentially cognizant ;
and simply for this reason, that it is not the
ontological unity itself. Thus is it in every way
obvious that the true knowledge does not super
vene
" under the apparent relativeness and sub
jectivity of the principles of thought." For be
* See an admirable article in the Edinburgh Review.
No. 99. Art. 11. ("Conn de Philosophie," par M. V.
Cousin.)
EARLY MAGNETISM. 49
hind every particular modification and possibility
of individuated consciousness, is yet implied the
infinite nucleus of Being and Absolute Will.
If the Absolute is, as itself, to be known inde
pendently, and before its manifestation, it is
plain to every thinking mind, that it must be by
the experience of co-essence in union, not by
reason or any reflective act : in short, as has
been before said, by the becoming It. " Nee
sentire Deum nisi qui pars ipse Dei est."
Thus then, if this species of cognition cannot
take place in our personal consciousness, and if
beyond the pale of consciousness, being is anni
hilate, we must, if we would yet hold fast the
anchor, seek some other point of rest, and try
if there be not between these extremes some
mode of consciousness free from the duplicity
which incapacitates our own.
We believe by inference, and on the principle
of contradiction, that the one is ; and naturally
include, in such idea of essential being, that of
consciousness ; which, as pertaining to, or rather
being itself the pure subjectivity, can only be
thought of consistently with itself, as imper
sonal, unconditioned, and universal.
Reflective reason rests in the pure abstraction
of all relative existence, unable to pass the infi
nite abyss which opens upon the extreme verge
E
50 EARLY MAGNETISM.
of thought betwixt it and the one : hence though
it is very requisite, as a preliminary aid to rela
tionship, and the right perception of intelligi-
bles, yet it is not, as has been alleged, the
bridge by which we can immediately pass from
Psycology to Ontology, but rather contrariwise;
its self-activity is the last intervening barrier
between them. The positive First and the nega
tive Last, each implying the other unmanifest-
edly throughout the immeasurable procession
of sensible and temporal existence.
The human mind by the various disciplines
and trials of Wisdom, (the term is not here em
ployed vaguely ; or intended to be ambiguous)
may become truly based ; and from that base,
in pure passivity, be drawn by faith and the
harmonious rest of union into one with All ; to
have its vision, through true light, in God, and
know itself in its Creator.
" Ego non sum jam qui fueram, amplius Ego."
(I—no longer myself —am more.)
This is the work, this its object, and its end ;
the line returns to form the circle into its
beginning ; and they join not in time, for their
union is eternity.
In his single human strength, man is unable
to know this ; without habitual contemplation,
we cannot even rise above a perceptive possi
EARLY MAGNETISM. 51
bility of this theoretic and very actual truth :
if,
therefore, the idea, here briefly suggested,
of the universalised consciousness being attain
able by man in ecstatic relationship and collapsed
personality, serve in some degree to clear the
imagination and present to any mind,
a
less
objectionable image than that which the Uncon
scious Intuition, or Conditioned Intelligence
may have afforded,
it
is
all that
is
aspired to or
at present desired.* Increased belief may be
obtained through contemplation, in that free
perspicacity of thought, which reflects the ori
ginal in every intelligence. Conviction belongs
alone to that acme of vital conversion which is,
and by its own will and necessity, ever must be,
incommunicable and arcane.
" For the knowledge of
it
is
a
most Divine
Silence, and
a
rest of all the senses
;
for neither
can he that understands That, understand any
thing else, nor he that sees That, see any thing
else, nor hear any other thing, nor, in sum,
move the body.
*
If, from the natural personality of its acceptation, the term
consciousness be yet found inapplicable to the Infinite Idea
;
it
may be taken merely as intended to convey the closest
image of it, which our ordinary mental condition affords
:
the
imagination must be cleared, by abstraction, from all dupli
city in its conceptive shadow of universal being.
E
2
52 EARLY MAGNETISM.
" For, shining steadfastly up, and round
about the whole mind, it enlighteneth all the
soul, and loosing it from the bodily senses and
motions, it draweth it from the body and
changeth it wholly into the essence of God."
O marvellous, miraculous consummation !
and thou, that by the strange necessity of fate,
and undue balance of thy selfrborn nature, art
fallen from the first image in which thou wast
created ! O man ! who, with thyself, hast lost
all other things, save one —Behold again the
beatific vision, remember, know the Beauty—
the true Good —the Heaven of which, thou wast
thyself the living type and manifested temple !
and after this manner contemplate God ;
" as
having the whole world to Himself, as it were, all
thoughts and intellections. If, therefore, thou
wilt not equal thyself to God, thou canst not
understand God, for the like is intelligible by
the like.*
* It has occurred since writing the above extract, that this
passage might possibly suggest a presumptuous or otherwise
erroneous idea to minds unfamiliarised to this sacred subject,
and be consequently destructive of the whole tenor and object
of these remarks ; for nothing is so calculated, or more emi
nently tends to humble man, as he is, than even a small insight
into what he might and ought to be ; but it is impossible really
to profane the Divine Idea, for it cannot be reached by a pro
fane or unprepared mind ; and as the fear of God is the begin
EARLY MAGNETISM. 5S»
" Increase thyself into an immense greatness,
leaping beyond every body, and transcending
Time, become Eternity, and thou shalt under
stand God. • If thou art able to believe in thy-:
self, that nothing is impossible, but accountest
thyself immortal, and that thou canst under
stand all things, every art, every science, and
the manner and custom of every living thing.
" Become higher than all Height, lower than
all Depth, Comprehend in thyself, the qualities of
all the creatures, of the fire, the water, the dry
and the moist, and conceive likewise that thou
canst at once be every where, in the sea and in
the earth. Thou shalt at once understand thy
self not yet begotten, in the womb, young, old,
to be dead and the things after death, and all
these together ; as also all times, places, deeds,
quantities, qualities, or else thou canst not yet
understand God. But if thou shut up thy soul
in the body, and abuse
it,
and say,
I
understand
nothing,
I
can do nothing,
I
am afraid of the
sea,
I
cannot climb up into heaven,
I
know not
ning of wisdom, so
is
presumption the end of ignorance
:
not
then by prematurely and irreverently drawing down the Idea,
but by piously aspiring, and raising the Conception through
graduated links and intellectual media can we ever hope to
draw the spectacle of our adoration
:
by pride man fell, in
humility, he will rise, to make manifest all Truth,
54 EARLY MAGNETISM.
who I am, I cannot tell what I shall be ; what
hast thou to do with God ?" for thou canst
understand none of these fair and good things ;
be then a lover of the body and evil.
" For it is the greatest evil not to know God :
but to be able to know, and to will, and to hope,
is the straight way, and the divine way proper
to the Good : and it will every where meet thee,
every where be seen of thee, plain and easy,
when thou dost not expect or look for it. For
there is nothing which is not the image of God.
And yet thou sayest, God is invisible, but be
advised—for who is more manifest than He?
For, therefore, hath he made all things, that by
all things, thou mayest see Him.
" This is the good of God, this is his virtue,
to appear ; there is nothing invisible, no not of
such things as are incorporeal ;
" For the sleep of the senses is the sober
watchfulness of the Mind, and the shutting of
the eyes, the true Sight. Let these things, thus
far forth, be made manifest unto thee ;
" Understand in like manner all other things
by Thyself, and thou shalt not be deceived."
" We awaken, from the Intellectual Intuition,"
says Schelling,
" as from a state of death ;" and
we awaken by reflection into that created perso
nality, wherein, it is impossible any longer to
EARLY MAGNETISM. 55
know Him. The vision, graven in hallowed
memory, is all that remains to us ; for the object
of human reason is the limit of its power ; and
the pure zero of all relative conception waits be
fore the throne of God.
Nothing is truly imaged in this world any
more than we are ourselves, who do but look
and dream on its falsified circumference ; or like
the people in Plato's book of laws, who lived
satisfied in a city underground, furnished only
through certain apertures with small portions of
dim light. But when some of these fortunately
emerged from their subterranean darkness, and
beheld the beauties of the broad and glorious
day, although they were at first uncomfortably
dazzled by its superior light, they disdained the
fancied felicities of their former dark abode, and
lamented the miseries of their yet imprisoned
friends. And we too, so long immured, are we
not about to emerge into the sunlight? The
Spirit is full wearied of the long Sabbath which
she has kept in silence, through so many circles
of ages, with the assurance of a great purpose
through her to be wrought out ; the inner mind
struggles for a new birth, to redeem philosophy,
56 EARLY MAGNETISM.
and to make manifest its end, and only object in
the purification and perfection of human life.
" Celestial light shine inward and the mind
Thro' all her powers irradiate ; there plant eyes,
All mist from thence purge and disperse, that we
May see and tell of things invisible to mortal sight."*
In its first true sense human progression is
internal, individual, essential, a moulding of the
lower irrational portion of the mind into accor
dance and obedience to the higher intellectual
archetype ; a restoring or building up as it were,
of a moral monarchy within, by conviction, con
stant endeavour, and the moving, organising
power of a faithful concentrated and uplifted
will.
The advance from a simple savage existence
to a complex civilised mode of life, is, in the
bare comparison of very equivocal reality. All
the many changes, known and recorded, which
have taken place about superficials, pass on,
leaving us even as they find us in perplexity,
missing and mistaking continually the true aim
of our own and of all existence ; still labouring
and undermining our efforts, as we supply the
* Milton's Paradise Lost.
EARLY MAGNETISM. 57
causal living fountain of human suffering and
delusion which, every where imparting its free
flowing fecundity, plays on securely and unin
terruptedly within.
" O sons of earth ! attempt ye still to rise
By mountains piled on mountains to the skies ?
Heaven still with laughter your vain toil surveys
And buries madmen in the heaps they raise/'
To expect or even wish for felicity whilst we
continue to falsify our susceptibilities and sub
mit to the degrading tyranny of our passions is
mere imbecility ; it is looking for effects inversely
to their causes, and hoping not only against all
theoretic possibility, but contrary to our every
intuition of moral utility, justice, and experience.
The obstacles which externals every where pre
sent to our selfishness might long since have
taught us how vain is its pursuit : but it would
seem, that as it becomes more obvious, our
folly increases, as if to hide itself in the gloom
that deepens at every step of departure from the
simplicity of truth. And it is this, which has
most to be guarded against in the application of
Magnetism, where, so specifically, the intention
carries and immediately images its principle in
act. Springing directly from ourselves, this
highly effective agent flows forth, as the mind
58 EARLY MAGNETISM.
f
directs, to good or evil ; and imposes, in sure
consequences on him who wields
it,
its inherent
accountability.
Few perhaps, observe themselves with suffi
cient scrutiny to know, how surely they bear
the just consequences of their own motives and
misdeeds, and how inevitably the canker which
false intention lays at the root of an action,
however far away its outward consequences
may be removed,
is
essentially felt and expiated
at its first source.
It
is not purposed, in this
place, to trouble the reader at large on this
subject, neither
is
it
necessary, as the law of
conscience and individual experience are far
more effective criteria to the generality of minds,
than ethical propositions, however, clearly de
monstrable
;
we instinctively know that, how
ever, much good and evil may appear to be inci
dentally implicated in this world, they each
must work their opposite results through every
seeming deviation
;
and that though we may
endeavour to serve ourselves and cheat existence
in outward relations, we cannot evade the moral
law in our own being. Oh
!
that we could but
as consciously feel and obey, as we are able in
theory to perceive, the precision of the laws
which govern in the moral world, and practi
cally appreciate the mathematical exactness
EARLY MAGNETISM. 59
with which natural justice is dealt out to us in
time ! But we are as spell bound to delusion, and
constrained mistrust in ourselves, in one another,
in all things, even in the power of Good to work
its own right results. No estimate can be made
of the sad effects which this cheerless infidel
spirit operates throughout society ; it dislocates
and dishonours every relation in life to which it
can reach ; our hopes and destinies are forfeited
in its abyss, as by a horrible perversity, it
degrades reason, binding her to the service of
blind sordid impulses, instead of her own clear
light.
At the present time when all are more or less
eagerly engaged in the pursuance of external
advantages and under penalty of being cast into
the fiery furnace of the world's scorn, do fall
down and worship that earth-born goddess of
temporal utility which opinion has set up, it
would be vain enthusiasm to attempt to divert
attention, but for a moment, from so favoured
an idol were it not that in the minds of all, even
its most degraded votaries, there already exists
a most real and bitter sense of its insufficiency,
and latent deformity ;—and until Wisdom shall
have effected that internal renovation which,
above all things we now need, it is vainly that
we seek in externals a harmony and happiness
which has not been imaged there. —Yet still we
60 EARLY MAGNETISM.
linger on in expectation, and with that abiding'
patience, which is the test of faith in a good
cause, may we continue to seek on, not vaguely
as heretofore, for passing excitements, but with
steadfast perseverance looking within, until
Wisdom reveal to us those higher objects of
pursuit and truer attractions which will not
suffer the mind aspiring to them to fall into,
dishonour ; but purifying and corroborating as
they draw, will, when at length they are worthily
won, unite with and transmute their worshipper
into that Harmony and Beauty which, in the:
dim beholding, he venerated and loved.
*'
Begin to-day, nor end till evil sink
In its due grave ; and if at once we may not
Declare the greatness of the work we plan
Be sure at least that ever in our mind
It stand complete before us, as a dome
Of light beyond this gloom, a house of stars,
Encompassing these dusky tents ; a thing
Absolute, close to all, though seldom seen,
Near as our Hearts and perfect as the Heavens ;
Be this our aim and model, and our Hands
Shall not wax faint until the work is done."
The Idea of the Good, the Pure, and the True
is the alluring object which we all innerly wor
ship—the progeny of Divine Intellect immortal
and strong—even Moral Beauty which, though
obscurely now, through the mists of sense and
EARLY MAGNETISM. 61
selfishness, ever shines attractively our Polar
Star:
" When from the lips of Truth one mighty breath
Shall, like a whirlwind scatter in its breeze
The whole dark pile of human mockeries,
Then shall the reign of Mind commence on earth
And starting fresh, as from a second birth,
Man, in the sunshine of the world's new spring,
Shall walk transparent like some holy thing."
" Already, see, the hallowed branches wave !
Hark! sounds tumultuous shake the trembling cave!
Far, ye profane ! far off ! with beauteous feet
Bright Phoebus comes, and thunders at the gate ;
See ! the glad sign 'the Delian Palm hath given ;
Sudden it bends ; and, hovering in the Heaven,
Soft sings the swan with melody divine :
Burst ope, te rars! te gates, tour heads decline !
Decline tour heads ! te sacred doors expand !
He comes! the God of Light! the God's at hand !
Begin the song ; and tread the sacred ground
In mystic dance symphonious to the sound.
Begin, young men \ Apollo's eyes endure
None but the good, the perfect, and the pure,
Who view the God are great, but abject they
From whom he turns his favouring eyes away ;
All piercing God ! in every place confess'd,
We will prepare, behold thee, and be bless'd ;
He comes, young men ! nor silent should ye stand
With harp or feet, when Phozrus is at hand."
62 EARLY MAGNETISM.
Now let us chaunt our breviary,
And show our friends our aviary,
Is not this good behaviour, eh ?
EARLY MAGNETISM. 63
Bird of the night ! Minerva bade thee fly
Only at length, when dusky evening fades.
That then to heights of metaphor thine eye
Might dart, or dive in allegory's shades ;
To know, and with thy knowledge be discreet.
Close with the many, freely with the wise
To hold communion, still to keep thy seat,
When birds of lighter feather think to rise.
64 EARLY MAGNETISM. ,
Quick, with the lightening fire she caught from Jove, |
High Pallas saw thee, not in form alone,
y
But thy wrapt mind, life's common place above,
She mark'd, adopted, claim'd thee for her own.
Gave thee life's best, first, last, essential boon,
Clear, as the northern lights in ether play,
From her own forehead, as the nightly moon
Wears the calm reflex of the solar ray.
The sister Muses, singly floating by,
Pausing in reverence at her behest,
Pour'd spirit on thy sense, entranced thine eye,
And in the world's oblivion gave thee rest :
Taught thee how high Olympus was not all
A baseless fable, feigned, and false, and far ;
Unfolded Chaos to thee, and the fall
Of proud Prometheus, and the Titan war ;
Young conquering Bacchus, not the reeling clown,
The wine-drunk God to sensual mortal sense,
But the flush' d Hero worthy of his crown,
The guerdon gained from Heaven's Omnipotence.
Taught thee, how feathered Mercury doth glide
Invisible on earth, and rise sublime,
Lifting dull sense through Heaven's high portal wide,
Where living mortal never hoped to climb.
Not wooden Hermes with the timber toe,
Nor Vatican Apollo though he be,
Nor Vulcan with the vulgar fire below,
Nor Venus from Apelles' hand just free.
Unveiled the Eleusinian mystic rite,
Sad Ceres, and the ravish'd Proserpine,
Hades, and Styx, and Erebus, and night,
Nox, O Noctua ! clear as day was thine.
-
EARLY MAGNETISM. 65
Glorious Apollo, and the Python slain
By his bright arm, and virtue's deadlier hate,
Old Saturn in his golden youth again,
On food like this she bade thee ruminate.
And thou wilt still feed on, and drink thy fill,
Through musing generations yet unborn,
Drink Wisdom from the pure Parnassian rill,
And ruminate on Amalthsea's horn.
Blind world ! seems not this owl a type of thee ?
All light of learning darkness to the masses ?
Look ! of what use for wisdom are the glasses,
The blazing candles and the torches ?
Alas ! the broad light only scorches ;
The animal won't see.
66 EARLY MAGNETISM.
There, still she sits in emblematic guise.
The yet unsolved enigma of the wise ;
All blind without (gainsay it not despite
Of high Minerva) all within is light :
Speak, sacred bird, give utterance divine
To those dark syllables, that all combine,
" Man know thyself!" thou needst nought else to know
For bliss above, and happiness below,
For joy, and health, and peace, or if for gold
Thy thirst, and power, I promise power and gold.
Know but thyself! within, within thou'lt find
The pure light, outwardly like me be blind !
These three short words, all blank to learning's scowl,
And scoffing, loud, loud ! louder, speak, my Owl.
EARLY MAGNETISM. 07
Thou musing, moping, melancholy bird,
What genius drew thee? what ambition stirr'd ?
How hast thou climb'd, or flapp'd thy stealthy wing
To heights like these, where songsters cease to sing ?
And there thou sit'st exposed, a joyless thing.
Thou darkness visible, in light's own rays,
Of all that fly the mockery and the maze.
Thou would'st not climb, but in thy humbler sphere
Thou wert not happy, and what art thou here ?
Wouldst thou aspire thus bodily to stray,
F 2
68 EARLY MAGNETISM.
High as the Polar star or milky way ?
In this empyreal ether to presume
Thou art too earthy, and too gross thy plume ;
Too dull on earth, high Heaven to explore,
Where Jove's own eagle only dare to soar.
To thee what's nectar ? what's amhrosian fare ?
All here to thee is thin and empty air ;
What's Helicon to thee, and what art thou
To Helicon ? look down, thou hast enow
Below to brood on, thick and murky clump
Of frill and feather, still to keep thee plump.
All powerless here, and faint be thy sojourn.
For earth thou art, to earth thou shalt return.
Athenian spirit ! light with wisdom's glow,
After life's long ordeal past below,
Freed from thy bonds, thou well may'st here aspire
Once more to rise, and bear Athenian fire.
With drooping wing, and silent as the snow,
In eddying whirl she swoops again below ;
And there to mock, soliloquize and grieve,
All day she sits from morn till dewy eve ;
Misprized in Heaven, and understood by few
On earth, owls like herself, to whit to whoo !
Seems haunting this vain, busy, trifling ground
Only to hoot, and still to hoot on all around !
And thus a fellow bird, that ne'er has sung
Till now, interprets close thy unknown tongue :
EARLY MAGNETISM. 69
Thou owe'st the penance of thy birth, like all
Gross body ever, ever doom'd to fall.
The forfeit and the pledge of fealty, still
Which all flesh pays before the Sovereign Will ;
But genial spirit, free as vital air.
Soars high and boundless over sense, and dare
All loose from body, lift the immortal soul
From the snake's coil, to join the perfect whole,
With the new light confirm the High Decree,
" Thou shalt, shalt have no other gods rut mk."
f
70 EARLY MAGNETISM.
The subsequent pages are addressed to those
who, not only having seen, are already believers
in Magnetism, but especially to those believers
who experiencing the wonders of the trance, and
with minds starting as it were from slumber at
that morning light, have been awakened and
aroused from the long lethargy of ages : from
darkness, and from dreams, and from delusions ;
to wonder and to pause, and meditate : to stir
new energies within them, to hail a new exis
tence, to see all glorious day brightening before
them, to beat well without the expansive fields
of eastern lore, to trace the modern specula
tions, to read, hear, and see, and to shut every
sense and look within.
And having raised the mind by deep soliloquy
and meditation high into the intellectual spheres,
and
(if
worthy) catching holy light, with new
born awe and reverence have bowed, and from
mercy drawn the inspiration, worshipping that
shrine of which belike they had scant knowledge
heretofore. Some such (many may they be!)
there are, and on them now we strike the deep
responding chords.
My wish and hope are to awaken the public
mind up to
a
higher faith,
a
holier view of Mag
netism, to approach
it
reverentially as the wise
and good of old
;
with pure hearts and suppli
EARLY MAGNETISM. 71
eating hands, " Not my will, O Lord ! but thine
be done :" to feel that there we leave the worldly
dust and mire to tread on holier ground.
" Lord,
prosper thou the work of our hands upon us,
O ! prosper thou our handy work." " The wind
bloweth where it listeth," it strengtheneth and
refresheth the humble and true-hearted.
Further to introduce the subject with autho
rity from the sacred volume, let me beg leave
here to make some short significant extracts
from the book of Psalms, though from the be
ginning to the end it is all edifying and illustra
tive. Has not God's anointed chosen servant
David thus in rapture chanted ? and have not
we too with devotion joined in chorus, and yet
happier still have we too caught the inspiration ?
" O sing unto the Lord a new song, for he
hath done marvellous things.
" We have heard with our ears, O God ! our
fathers have told us the noble works that thou
didst in their days, in the times of old.
" There is sprung up a Light for the righteous,
and joyful gladness for such as are true-hearted.
" Thou hast shewed thy people hard things,
thou hast made us to drink the wine of astonish
ment.
72 EARLY MAGNETISM.
" Thou hast given a banner to them that fear
thee, that it may be displayed because of the
truth.
" An unwise man doth not well consider this,
and a fool doth not understand it.
" Who shall ascend into the hill of the Lord,
and who shall stand in his holy place ?
" He that hath clean hands, and a pure heart,
who hath not lift up his soul unto vanity, nor
sworn deceitfully.
" He shall receive the blessing from the Lord,
and righteousness from the God of his salva
tion.
" The secret of the Lord is among them, that
fear him, and he will show them his covenant.
" I will wash my hands in innocency, O Lord,
and so will I go to the altar.
" The Lord my God shall make my darkness
to be light.
" To see thy power and thy glory, so as I
have seen thee in the sanctuary.
" Thus will I bless thee while I live, I will lift
up my hands in thy name.
" And the glorious Majesty of the Lord our
God be upon us, and establish thou the work
of our hands upon us, yea the work of our hands
establish thou it.
EARLY MAGNETISM. 73
" Praise God in the sanctuary, praise him in
the firmament of his power.
" .lift up your hands in the sanctuary, and
praise the Lord with a mighty hand and an out
stretched arm.
" Lord! what is man that thou art mindful
of him, and the son of man that thou visitest
him?
" Whoso is wise will ponder these things,
and they shall understand the loving kindness of
the Lord.
" I have said that ye are gods, and ye are all
the children of the Most High.
" But ye shall die like men."
The scriptural extracts that will next be offered,
as bearing on this subject, are taken from Solo
mon and the inspired Isaiah, to them wishing as
much as possible to confine myself; the field
would be too wide and the receptive knowledge
required would be too ample to allow of taking
at present a wider range ; much self-mistrust and
prudence as regards others stay the pen, and
with the great masters Isaiah, and with Solomon
about to speak, it behoves the scholar to be
silent. Well have they spoken for themselves,
and now may many eyes and ears be opened to
74 EARLY MAGNETISM.
their revealments ; that what we all before have
read devotionally, we may now receive with
enlightenment ; that we may read, mark, learn,
and inwardly digest their time surviving, hal
lowed words and sacred parables ; that we may
embrace and ever hold fast the blessed hope of
everlasting life as given us in our Saviour Jesus
Christ.
ISAIAH.
" I have long time holden my peace, I have
been still and refrained myself.
" Hear, ye deaf, and look, ye blind, that ye
may see.
" Seek ye out the book of the Lord, and
read.
" Behold, the former things are come to pass,
and new things do I declare ; before they spring
forth, I tell you of them.
" Let all the nations be gathered together, and
let the people be assembled, who among them
can declare this, and show us former things ?
" Let them bring forth their witnesses, that
they may be justified ; or let them hear, and say,
it is truth.
" Bring forth the blind people that have eyes,
and the deaf that have ears.
EARLY MAGNETISM. 75
" Who is blind but my servant, or deaf as
my messenger that I sent ? Who is blind as he
that is perfect, and blind as the Lord's ser
vant?
Seeing many things, but thou observest not,
opening the ears, but he heareth not.
" Who among you will give ear to this ?
Who will hearken and hear for the time to
come?
" I have not spoken in secret, in a dark place
of the earth.
" Look unto me and be saved, all ye ends of
the earth.
" Wo unto them that call evil good, and good
evil, that put darkness for light, and light for
darkness, that are wise in their own eyes, and
prudent in their own sight.
" The people that walked in darkness have
seen a great light, they that dwell in the land of
the shadow of death, upon them hath the light
shined.
" For all this his anger is not turned away,
but his hand is stretched out still.
" For the earth shall be full of the knowledge
of the Lord, as the waters cover the sea.
" In that day shall a man look to his Maker,
and his eyes shall have respect to the Holy One
of Israel.
76 EARLY MAGNETISM.
" And the key of the house of David will I
lay upon his shoulder, so he shall open and none
shall shut, and he shall shut, and none shall
open.
" Lord ! when thy hand is lifted up, they will
not see.
" Thou hast wrought all thy work in us.
" Whom shall he teach knowledge, and
whom shall he make to understand doctrine ?
" Them that are weaned from the milk, and
drawn from the breasts.
" For precept must be upon precept, precept
upon precept, line upon line, line upon line,
here a little, and there a little, for with stam
mering lips and another tongue will he speak to
his people.
" To whom he said, this is the rest where
with ye may cause the weary to rest, and this is
the refreshing.
" Yet they would not hear.
" This also cometh from the Lord of Hosts,
which is wonderful in counsel, and excellent in
working.
" And thou shalt be brought down, and shalt
speak out of the ground, and thy voice shall be
low out of the dust, and thy voice shall be as
one that hath a familiar spirit, out of the ground,
and thy speech shall whisper out of the dust.
EARLY MAGNETISM. 77
Moreover the multitude of thy strangers shall
be like small dust ;
" Stay yourselves and wonder, cry ye out and
cry, they are drunken, but not with wine, they
stagger, but not with strong drink.
" For the Lord hath poured out upon you the
spirit of deep sleep, and hath closed your eyes ;
the prophets and your rulers, the seers hath he
covered.
" And the vision of all is become unto you as
the words of a book that is sealed, which men
deliver to one that is learned, saying, read this
I pray thee, and he saith, I cannot for it is
sealed.
And the book is delivered to him, that is not
learned, saying, read this I pray thee, and he
saith, I am not learned.
" Therefore the Lord said ; forasmuch as this
people draw near me with their mouth, and with
their lips do honour me, but have removed their
heart far from me, and their fear towards me is
taught by the precept of men.
" Therefore behold I will proceed to do a mar
vellous work amongst this people, even a mar
vellous work and a wonder ; for the wisdom of
their wise men shall perish, and the understand
ing of their prudent men shall be hid.
" Wo unto them that seek deep to hide their
78 EARLY MAGNETISM.
counsel from the Lord, and their works are in
the dark, and they say, who seeth us, and who
knoweth us.
" And in that day shall the deaf hear the
words of the book, and the eyes of the blind
shall see out of obscurity and out of dark
ness.
" The meek also shall increase their joy in the
Lord, and the poor among men shall rejoice in
the Holy One of Israel.
" They that have erred in spirit shall come to
understanding, and they that murmured shall
learn doctrine.
" Now go write it before them in a table, and
note it in a book, that it may be for the time to
come, for ever and for ever.
"That this is a rebellious people, lying chil
dren, children that will not hear the law of the
Lord.
" Which say to the seers, see not, and to the
prophets, prophecy not unto us right things,
speak unto us smooth things, prophecy de
ceits.
" Get you out of the way, turn aside out of
the path : cause the Holy One of Israel to cease
from before us.
"Wherefore thus saith the Holy One of
Israel, because ye despise this word, and
EARLY MAGNETISM. 79
trust in oppression and perverseness, and stay
thereon ;
" One thousand shall flee at the rebuke of
one, at the rebuke of five shall ye flee.
" He shall lift up his staff against thee after
the manner of Egypt.
" Now the Egyptians are men and not God,
and their horses are flesh and not spirit ; when
the Lord shall stretch out his hand, both he that
helpeth shall fall, and he that is holpen shall fall
down, and they shall all fail together.
" But the liberal deviseth liberal things, and
by liberal things shall he stand.
" Now will I rise, saith the Lord, now
will I be exalted, now will I lift up my
self;
"Fear not, for lam with thee, be not dis
mayed, for I am thy God, I will strengthen thee,
yea I will help thee, yea I will uphold thee with
the right hand of my righteousness.
" For I the Lord thy God will hold thy right
hand, saying unto thee, fear not, for I will help
thee.
" And the eyes of them that see shall not
be dim, and the ears of them that hear shall
hearken :
" The heart also of the rash shall understand
knowledge.
80 EARLY MAGNETISM.
" And the tongue of the stammerer shall be
ready to speak plainly.
" One shall say, I am the Lord's, and another
shall call himself by the name of Jacob, and
another shall subscribe himself with his hand
unto the Lord, and surname himself with the
name of Jacob.
" Thus saith the Lord, the King of Israel,
and his Redeemer, the Lord of Hosts, I am the
first, and I am the last, and besides me there is
no God, and who as I shall declare it and set it
in order for me since I appointed the ancient
people ? And the things that are coming shall
come.
" That unto me every knee shall bow, every
tongue shall swear.
" For I am God, declaring the end from the
beginning, and from the ancient times the things
that are not yet done.
" Saying my counsel shall stand, and I will do
all my pleasure.
" Therefore my people have gone into capti
vity, because they have no knowledge.
" Strengthen ye the weak hands and confirm
the feeble knees ; say to them that are of a fear
ful heart, be strong fear not.
" Behold your God, with a recompense, will
come and save you.
EARLY MAGNETISM. 81
"Then the eyes of the blind shall be opened,
and the ears of the deaf shall be unstopped.
" Then shall the lame man leap up as an hart,
and the tongue of the dumb sing.
" Who is he among you that feareth the Lord,
that obeyeth the voice of his servant, that walk-
eth in darkness and hath no light ?
"Let him trust in the name of the Lord, and
stay upon his God.
" Behold, all ye that kindle a fire, that com
pass yourselves about with sparks, walk in the
light of your fire, and in the sparks that ye have
kindled ;
•
" This shall ye have of mine hands, ye shall
lie down in sorrow.
" Hearken unto me, ye that follow after right
courses, ye that seek the Lord ;
" Look unto the rock whence ye are hewn,
and to the hole of the pit, whence ye are
digged.
" I even I am he that comforteth you. Who art
thou that thou shouldst be afraid of a man that
shall die, and of the son of man which shall
be made as grass ?
"And forgettest the Lord -thy Maker, that
hath stretched forth the heavens, and laid the
foundations of the earth.
" How beautiful upon the mountains are the
G
82 EARLY MAGNETISM.
feet of him that bringeth good tidings of good ;
that publisheth salvation, that saith unto Zion,
thy Lord reigneth.
" The Lord hath made bare his holy arm
in the eyes of all nations, and all the ends
of the earth shall see the salvation of our God.
" So shall he sprinkle many nations, the kings
shall shut their mouths at him, for that which
had not been told them shall they see, and that
which they had not heard shall they consider.
" Who hath believed our report, and to whom
is the arm of the Lord revealed ?
" Wherefore do ye spend money for that which
is not bread, and your labour for that which
satisfieth not f
"Hearken diligently unto me, and eat ye that
which is good.
" Thus saith the Lord, keep ye judgment, and
do justice, for my salvation is near to come, and
my righteousness to be revealed.
" His watchmen are blind, they are all dumb
dogs, they cannot bark, lying down, loving to
slumber ;
" Yea they are all greedy dogs, which can
never have enough, and they are shepherds that
cannot understand.
" They all look to their own way, every one
to his gain from his quarter.
EARLY MAGNETISM- 83
"Associate yourselves, O ye people! and ye
shall be broken in pieces.
"Take counsel together, and it shall come
to nought ; speak the word, and it shall not
stand ;
" For God is with us.
" For the Lord spake thus unto me with a
strong hand, and instructed me, that I should
not walk in the way of this people.
" Wherefore have we fasted ? say they ! and
thou seest not, wherefore have we afflicted our
souls, and thou takest no knowledge ?
" Behold, in the day of your fast, you find
pleasure, and exact all your labours.
" Behold ye fast for strife and debate, and to
smite with the fist of wickedness.
" Ye shall not fast as ye do this day to make
your voice be heard on high.
"Is it for such a fast that I have chosen a day
for a man to afflict his soul ?
" Is it to bow down his head as a bulrush,
and to spread sackcloth and ashes under him ?
Wilt thou call this a fast, and an acceptable day
to the Lord ?
" Is not this the fast that I have chosen?
" To loose the bands of wickedness ? To undo
the heavy burden, and to let the oppressed go
free, and that ye break every yoke ?
g 2
84 EARLY MAGNETISM.
"Is it not to deal thy bread to the hungry,
and that thou bring the poor that are captive to
thy house ?
" When thou seest the naked that thou cover
him, and that thou hide not thyself from thine
own flesh ?
"Then shall thy light break forth as the
morning, and thine health shall spring forth
speedily :
" And thy righteousness shall go before thee,
the glory of the Lord shall be thy reward.
" Then shalt thou call, and the Lord shall
answer ; thou shalt cry, and he shall say, here I
am ! If thou take away from the midst of thee
the yoke, the putting forth of the finger, and
speaking vanity :
" And if thou draw out thy soul to the hungry,
and satisfy the afflicted soul ;
" Then shall thy light rise in obscurity, and
thy darkness be as the noon-day.
" And the Lord shall guide thee continually,
and satisfy thy soul in drought, and make fat
thy bones, and thou shalt be like a watered
garden, and like a spring of water, whose waters
fail not.
" And if thou turn away thy foot from the
sabbath, from doing thy pleasure on my holy
day, and call the sabbath a delight, the holy of
EARLY MAGNETISM. 85
the Lord, honourable, and shall honour him, not
doing thine own ways, nor speaking thine own
words :
" Then shalt thou delight thyself in the Lord,
and I will cause thee to ride upon the high places
of the earth, and feed thee with the heritage of
Jacob thy father.
" For the mouth of the Lord hath spoken it.
" Behold the Lord's hand is not shortened,
that it cannot save, neither is his ear heavy that
it cannot hear.
" But your iniquities have separated between
you and your God, and your sins have hid
his face from you, that he will not hear.
" Therefore is judgment far from us, neither
doth justice overtake us :
" We wait for light, but behold obscurity, for
brightness, but we walk in darkness ;
" We grope as if we had no eyes, we stumble
at noon-day as in the night.
"We look for judgment, but there is none;
for salvation, but it is far from us.
" For our transgressions are multiplied before
thee, and our sins testify against us, for our
transgressions are with us, and as for our iniqui
ties, we know them.
" And judgment is turned away backward,
86 EARLY MAGNETISM.
and justice standeth afar off, for truth is fallen
in the streets, and equity cannot enter.
" Yea, truth faileth, and he that departeth
from evil, maketh himself a prey.
" And the Lord saw
it,
and
it
displeased him
that there was no judgment.
" And he saw that there was no man, and
wondered that there was no intercessor.
"Therefore his arm brought salvation unto
him, and his righteousness
it
sustained him.
"For he put on righteousness as
a
breast
plate, and an helmet of salvation upon his
head
:
and he put on the garments of ven
geance for clothing, and was clad with zeal as
a
cloak.
" Arise, shine, for thy light
is
come, and the
glory of the Lord
is
risen upon thee.
" For behold, the darkness shall cover the
earth, and gross darkness the people
;
but the
Lord shall arise upon thee, and his glory shall be
seen upon thee.
" And the Gentiles shall come to thy light,
and kings to the brightness of thy rising.
" The sun shall be no more thy light by day,
neither for brightness shall the moon give light
unto thee, but the Lord shall be unto thee
an everlasting light, and thy God thy glory.
EARLY MAGNETISM. 87
"Thy sun shall no more go down, neither
shall thy moon withdraw itself.
" For the Lord shall be thine everlasting
light, and the days of thy mourning [shall be
ended.
" The spirit of the Lord is upon me, because
the Lord hath anointed me to preach good
tidings unto the meek, he hath sent me to bind
up the broken-hearted, to proclaim liberty to
the captives, and the opening of the prison to
them that are bound.
" To proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord,
and the day of vengeance of our God.
" To comfort all that mourn, to give them
beauty for ashes, the oil of joy for mourning, the
garment of praise for the spirit of heaviness :
" That they might be called trees of righteous
ness, the planting of the Lord.
PROVERBS.
" Happy is the man that findeth wisdom, and
the man that getteth understanding.
" Length of days is in her right hand, and in
her left hand riches and honour.
" She is a tree of life to them that lay hold
upon her, and happy is every one that retaineth
her.
88 EARLY MAGNETISM.
" Withhold not good from them to whom it
is due, when it is in the power of thine hand to
do it.
" I, wisdom, dwell with prudence, and find
out knowledge of witty inventions.
" The fear of the Lord is the beginning of
wisdom, and the knowledge of the Holy One is
understanding.
" The fear of the Lord is the beginning of
knowledge, but fools despise wisdom and in
struction.
" My son, hear the instruction of thy father,
and forsake not the law of thy mother.
" For they shall be an ornament of grace
unto thine head, and chains about thy neck.
" Let thine eyes look right on, and let thine
eyelids look straight before thee ;
" To understand a proverb, and the inter
pretation, the words of the wise, and their dark
sayings.
" For the spirit of the Lord filleth the world,
and that which containeth all things hath know
ledge of the voice.
" Seek not death in the error of your life, and
pull not upon yourselves destruction with the
works of your hands.
" How long, ye simple ones, will ye love sim
EARLY MAGNETISM. 89
plicity, and the scorners delight in their scorn
ing, and fools hate knowledge ?
" I have stretched out my hand, and no man
regarded, for they that hated knowledge, and did
not choose the fear of the Lord, they would
none of my counsel, they despised all my re
proof.
" If thou criest after knowledge, and liftest up
thy voice for understanding ;
" If thou seekest for her as silver, and search-
est for her as for hid treasures,
" Then shalt thou understand the fear of the
Lord, and find the knowledge of God ;
"For the Lord giveth wisdom, out of his
mouth cometh understanding.
" His secret is with the righteous.
" Get wisdom, get understanding, forget it
not, neither decline from the words of my
mouth.
" Wisdom is the principal thing, therefore get
wisdom, and with all thy getting get under
standing.
" She shall give to thy head a crown of
grace, a crown of glory shall she deliver unto
thee.
" Take fast hold of instruction, let her not go,
keep her, for she is thy life.
90 EARLY MAGNETISM.
" My son, forget not my law, let thine heart
keep my commandments.
" For length of days, and long life, and peace
shall they add to thee.
" Be not wise in thine own eyes, fear the Lord,
and depart from evil.
" A scorner seeketh wisdom, and findeth it
not, but knowledge is easy to him that under-
standeth.
" The spirit of man is the candle of the Lord,
searching all the inward parts of his belly.
"A false balance is an abomination to the
Lord, but a just weight is his delight.
" Who hath ascended up into heaven, or de
scended ?
" Who hath gathered the wind in his fists ?
" Who hath bound the waters in a garment ?
" Who hath established all the ends of the
earth, what is his name, and what is his son's
name, if thou canst tell ?
WISDOM OF SOLOMON.
" As for wisdom, what she is, and how she
came up, I will tell you, and will not hide mys
teries from you ;
" But will seek her out from the beginning of
EARLY MAGNETISM. 91
her nativity, and bring the knowledge of her
unto light, and will not pass over the truth.
" For the true beginning of her is the desire
of discipline, and the care of discipline is
love.
" Whoso seeketh her early shall have no
great travel, for he shall find her sitting at his
doors.
" Receive therefore instruction through my
words, and it shall do you good.
" I prayed, and understanding was given me,
I called upon God, and the spirit of wisdom
came to me.
" I preferred her before sceptres and thrones,
and esteemed riches nothing in comparison of
her.
" I loved her above health and beauty, and
chose to have her instead of light.
" For the light that cometh from her never
goeth out.
" I learned diligently, and do communicate
her liberally.
" I do not hide her riches.
" Wisdom opened the mouth of the dumb,
and made the tongues of them that cannot speak
eloquent.
" She prospered their works in the hands of
the holy prophet.
92 EARLY MAGNETISM.
" It was neither herb nor mollifying plaister
that restored them to health ;
"But thy word, O Lord, which healeth all
things, for thine incorruptible spirit is in all
things.
" And to know thy power is the root of
immortality.
" God hath granted me to speak as I would,
and to conceive as is meet for the things that are
given me, because it is He that leadeth unto
wisdom and directeth the wise.
" For in his hand are both we and our
words.
" All wisdom, also, and knowledge of work
manship ;
" For he hath given me certain knowledge of
the things that are, namely, to know how the
world was made, and the operation of the ele
ments,
"The beginning, ending, and midst of the
times, the alterations of the turning of the sun,
and the change of seasons,
" The circuits of years, and the position of
the stars ;
" The natures of living creatures, and the
furies of wild beasts, the violence of winds, and
the reasonings of men ; the diversities of plants,
and the virtues of roots ;
EARLY MAGNETISM. 93
" And all such things as are either secret or
manifest, them I know.
" For wisdom which is the worker of all things
taught me, for in her is an understanding spirit,
holy, one only, manifold, subtile, lively, clear,
undefiled, plain ;
" Not subject to hurt, loving the thing that is
good, quick, which cannot be letted, ready to do
good;
" Kind to man, steadfast, sure, free from care,
having all power, overseeing all things, and
going through all understanding, pure and most
subtile spirit.
"For wisdom is more moving than any motion,
she passeth and goeth through all things by rea
son of her pureness.
" For she is the breath of the power of God,
and a pure influence flowing from the power of
the Almighty ; therefore can no undefiled thing
fall into her.
" For she is the brightness of the everlasting
light, the unspotted mirror of the power of God,
and the image of his goodness.
" And being but one, she can do all things ;
" And remaining in herself, she maketh all
things new, and in all ages entering into holy
souls, she maketh them friends of God and pro
phets.
94 EARLY MAGNETISM.
" For God loveth none, but him that dwelleth
with wisdom.
" For she is more beautiful than the sun.
" And above all the order of stars; being
compared with the light, she is found before
it;
" For after this cometh night, but vice shall
not prevail against wisdom.
" Wisdom reacheth from one to another,
mightily, and sweetly doth she order all things.
" I loved her, and sought her out from my
youth, I desired to make her my spouse.
" And I was a lover of her beauty.
" In that she is conversant with God, she
magnifyeth her nobility ; yea, the Lord of all
things himself loved her.
" For she is privy to the mysteries of the
knowledge of God, and lover of his works.
" If riches be a possession to be desired in
this life, what is richer than wisdom, that work-
eth all things ?
"And if prudence work, who of all that are,
is a more cunning workman than she ?
" And if a man love righteousness, her labours
are virtues, for she teacheth temperance and
prudence, justice, and fortitude, which are such
things as men can have nothing more profitable
in their life.
EARLY MAGNETISM. 95
" If a man desire much experience, she know-
eth things of old, and conjectureth aright what
is to come ; she knoweth the subtleties of
speeches, and can expound dark sentences ; she
foreseeth signs and wonders, and the events of
seasons and times.
" Therefore I purposed to take her to me to
live with me, knowing that she would be a coun
sellor of good things, and a comfort in cares and
grief.
"For her sake I shall have an estimation
among the multitude, and honour with the elders
though I be young.
" I shall be found of a quick conceit in judg
ment, and shall be admired in the sight of great
men.
" When I hold my tongue, they shall bide my
leisure, and when I speak they shall give good
ear unto me.
" If I talk much they shall lay their hands
upon their mouth.
" Moreover, by the means of her, I shall obtain
immortality, and leave behind me an ever
lasting memorial to them that come after me.
" Horrible tyrants shall be afraid, when they
do but hear me, and I shall be found good among
the multitude, and valiant in war.
" After I am come into mine house, 1 will re
96 EARLY MAGNETISM.
pose myself with her ; for her conversation hath
no bitterness, and to live with her hath no sor
row, but mirth and joy.
" Now when I considered these things in
myself, and pondered them in mine heart, how
that to be allied unto wisdom is immortality,
" And great pleasure is it to have her friend
ship, and in the works of her hands are infinite
riches, and in the exercise of conference with
her, prudence, and in talking with her a good
report ;
" I went about seeking how to take her to
me,
" For I was a witty child, and had a good
spirit.
"Yea, rather being good, I came into a body
undefiled.
" Nevertheless, when I perceived that I could
not otherwise obtain her, except God gave her
to me (and that was a point of wisdom also to
know whose gift she was), I prayed unto the
Lord, and besought him, and with my whole
heart I said :
" O God of my fathers and Lord of mercy, who
hast made all things with thy Word, and or
dained man through thy wisdom, that he should
have dominion over the creatures which thou
hast made,
EARLY MAGNETISM. 97
" And order the world according to equity and
righteousness, and execute judgments with an
upright heart,
" Give me wisdom, that sitteth by thy
throne, and reject me not from among thy
children ;
" For I thy servant and son of thine hand
maid, am a feeble person and of a short time,
and too young for the understanding of judg
ment and laws.
" For though a man be never so perfect
among the children of men, yet if thy wisdom
be not with him, he shall be nothing re
garded.
" Thou hast chosen me to be a king of thy
people, and a judge of thy sons and daugh
ters,
" Thou hast commanded me to build a temple
upon thy holy mount, and an altar in the city
wherein thou dwellest,
" A resemblance of the holy tabernacle which
thou hast prepared from the beginning.
"And wisdom was with thee, which knoweth
thy works, and was present when thou madest
the world, and knew what was acceptable in
thy sight, and right in thy commandments.
" O ! send her out of thy holy heavens, and
from the throne of thy glory, that being present
n
98 EARLY MAGNETISM.
she may labour with me, that I may know what
is pleasing unto thee.
" For she knoweth and understandeth all
things, and she shall lead me soberly in my
doings, and preserve me in her power.
" So shall my works be acceptable, and then
shall I judge thy people righteously,
" And be worthy to sit in my father's seat.
" For what man is he that can know the
counsel of God ? Or who can think what the
will of the Lord is ?
" For the thoughts of mortal men are mise
rable, and our desires are but uncertain.
" For the corruptible body presseth down
the soul, and the earthy tabernacle weigheth
down the mind that museth upon many things.
"And hardly do we guess aright of things
that are upon earth, and with labour do we find
the things that are before us ;
" But the things that are in heaven, who hath
searched out ?
" And thy counsel, who hath known ? Except
thou give wisdom, and send thy holy spirit
from above.
" For so the ways of them which lived on the
earth were reformed, and men were taught the
things that are pleasing unto thee ;
" And were saved through wisdom.
EARLY MAGNETISM. 99
" For God created man to be immortal, and
made him to be an image of his own eter
nity.
ECCLESIASTICUS.
" Who shall set a watch before my mouth,
and a seal of wisdom upon my lips, that I fall
not suddenly by them, and that my tongue de
stroy me not ?
" Be not curious in unnecessary matters, for
more things are shewed unto thee than men un
derstand.
" But what is commanded thee, think there
upon with reverence, for it is not needful for
thee to see with thine eyes the things that are in
secret.
" Many are in high places and of renown,
but mysteries are revealed unto the meek.
"Draw near unto me, you unlearned, and
dwell in the house of learning.
" Wherefore are ye slow, and what say you
of these things, seeing your souls are very
thirsty.
" Wisdom hath been created before all things,
and the understanding of prudence from ever
lasting.
h 2
100 EARLY MAGNETISM.
" The word of God most high is the founda
tion of wisdom.
" She is with all flesh according to his gift,
and he hath given her to them that love him.
"Search and seek, and she shall be made
known unto thee, and when thou hast got hold
of her, let her not go.
" I am the mother of fair love, and fear, and
knowledge, and holy hope ; I therefore being
eternal am given to all my children which are
named of Him.
" Come unto me all ye that be desirous of me,
and fill yourselves with my fruits.
" He that obeyeth me shall never be con
founded, and they that work by me shall not do
amiss.
" The wisdom of a learned man cometh by
opportunity of leisure, and he that hath little
business shall become wise.
" How can he get wisdom that holdeth the
plough, and that glorieth in the goad? That
driveth oxen, and is occupied in their labours,
whose talk is of bullocks ?
"But he that giveth his mind to the law of
the Most High, and is occupied in the meditation
thereof, will seek out the wisdom of all the
ancient, and be occupied in prophecies.
EARLY MAGNETISM. 101
" He will keep the sayings of renowned men,
and where subtle parables are, he will be there
also ;
" He will seek out the secrets of grave sen
tences, and be conversant in dark parables.
" He will give his heart to resort early to the
Lord that made him, and will pray before the
Most High, and will open his mouth in prayer,
and make supplication for his sins.
" When the great Lord will, he shall be filled
with the spirit of understanding, he shall pour
out wise sentences, and give thanks to the Lord
in prayer.
" He shall direct his counsel and knowledge,
and in his secrets shall he meditate.
" He shall shew forth that which he hath
learned, and shall glory in the law of the cove
nant of the Lord.
"Yet have I more to say which I have
thought upon, for I am filled as the moon at the
full.
"My son, if thou come to serve the Lord,
prepare thy soul for temptation.
"Turn not away thine eyes from the needy,
and give him none occasion to curse thee ;
" For, if he curse thee in the bitterness of
his soul, his prayer shall be heard of Him that
made him.
102 EARLY MAGNETISM.
" I will yet pour out doctrine, and leave it to
all ages for ever.
" Behold, I have not laboured for myself only,
but for all them that seek wisdom.
" The love of the Lord passeth all things for
illumination ; faith is the beginning of cleaving
unto him.
" Have mercy upon us, O Lord God of all !
and behold us, and send thy fear upon all the
nations that seek not after thee.
" Lift up thine hand against the strange na
tions, and let them see thy power, and let them
know thee as we have known thee.
" Shew new signs, and make other strange
wonders, glorify thy hand and thy right arm,
that they may set forth thy wondrous works.
" Who is as the wise man, and who knoweth
the interpretation of a thing ?
" A man's wisdom maketh his face to shine,
and the boldness of his face shall be changed.
" He declareth the things that are past, and
are to come, and readeth the steps of hidden
things.
" No thought escapeth him, neither any word
is hidden from him, that a man see, even to a
spark.
" All things are double, one against another,
he hath established nothing imperfect.
EARLY MAGNETISM. 103
" One thing establisheth the good of another.
" Honour the Physician with the honour
due unto him, for the uses which you may
have of him, for the Lord hath created him.
" For of the Most High cometh healing, and
he shall receive honour of the King.
" The skill of the Physician shall lift up his
head, and in the sight of great men he shall be
in admiration.
" He hath given men skill, that he might be
honoured in his marvellous works.
" There is a time when in their hands there is
a good success.
" For they also shall pray unto the Lord that
he would prosper that which they give for ease,
and remedy to prolong life.
" There be yet hid greater things than these
be, for we have seen but a few of his works.
" The light shineth in darkness, and the dark
ness comprehendeth it not."
Yet more awakening than day's harbinger it
shines, this dawn of Universal Light ! Who now
may stay its brightening career ? They cannot
if they would, they ought not if they could.
104 EARLY MAGNETISM.
Hence, then, not, " truth against the world," but
" truth for the world," be our pass-word and
countersign. And let us not think our bodies
only are to move by rail and steam ; the nobler
spheres of mind, too, are expanding, and she,
too, is sarting on her course ; and, as the electric
wire outspeeds her laggart rival by her side, so
far more glorious and above shall intellect sur
pass it in her new elastic bound to loftier inspi
rations, even as free thought outstrips the cum
brous body.
Many quiet, still, reflecting minds must cer
tainly ere now have been stirred, raised, and
lightened since first this new leaven of Magne
tism has been cast on them ; dull and torpid
verily, has been the stuff and clay whereon it
has fallen, that has not felt its working.
" Caligo haec ingens, quae vos cognoscere verum
Posse vetat, tolle hanc, oculi meliora videbunt.
Et quae nunc bona prima putas, fortasse negabis
Esse bona, et quae nunc credis mala maxima, forsan
Non mala sunt, dices, pulsis a corde tenebris.
Est acies mentis potior, quae perspicit intus
Quicquid in abstruso est, quicunque hac utitur, ille
Verus erit rerum judex, et mira videbit."
The days of ignorance pass on ; for long,
dark ages have we dared to drive forth nature
from her field ; with forks and with staves
EARLY MAGNETISM. 105
have expelled her, but ever rallying, she re
turns, reclaiming her own rights, and confound
ing human subtlety and assumption ; for her at
length the time of retribution has drawn nigh,
when every coming throe shall bring forth
tidings of revealment.
" Omnia jam fiunt, fieri qua? posse negantur,
Et nihil est de quo non sit habenda fides."
In fundamental principles, nature has ever
been the same, yesterday, to-day, and to-mor
row,
" I am what was, and is, and shall be."
But how differently, how vaguely has man
looked her in the face ; trusting vainly to his own
senses has he beheld her, for which her spirit
was far too subtle and refined. Truly some few
of finer essence, some aspiring mortals have at
intervals arisen, but their light has still been
darkness to the many ; the vulgar herd have
gazed and gaped in wonder, and scarcely con
ceiving what they saw, and judging of others by
themselves, whatever they saw not, felt not in
their own obtuseness, have been unwilling to
believe from others more gifted or more en
lightened than themselves.
106 EARLY MAGNETISM.
" Quare non mirum est, si nostris credere dictis
Turba nequit, siquidera turbae crassissima mens est.
Talpa bipes, alta semper tellure sepultus,
Aspiciens nunquam sublato lumine caelum.
A mystery ! a miracle ! have they cried, and
been content, when for a moment some great
one, lifting Nature's veil, has disclosed some
flitting feature of her ample face. Fair truth
has often been revealed, but rarely examined,
and never appreciated ; and when perchance
man might have caught and worshipped her,
base selfishness has intervened, and cast her
cloud over the tabernacle. But the mighty
magician is gone forth ; the fiery pillar is before ;
follow! follow where it leads, even though it
draw us (whither assuredly it tends), to truth's
everlasting sanctuary.
Look at the wonderful agent in common with
us all, the wonder-working Will, strong in faith,
the great portentous achiever in times of yore,
drawing the substance of things hoped for, the
evidence of the yet unseen realities of thought,
beyond those bounds that give to airy nothing a
local habitation and a name, ignota vulgo, fleet
ing and viewless as the winds in ordinary life,
but stuff, perchance, to work on, could we but
apply the proper press and power.
EARLY MAGNETISM. 107
" corpus sed carceris instar
Est animai, quam. dum membrorum viribus arete
Implicat, aetherere mentis suffocat acumen,
Haud secus ac intus positam vas fictile flammam."
Were we not fallen, or could we still regain
the high estate! could we but be lifted over
sense, sublimed by yearnings pure and strong to
be, what we behold ! Subduing, crucifying, sub
jecting wholly our blind will ; merging the indi
vidual in the universal ; thinking, hoping, be
lieving only in the good, and leaving every
earthly, earth-born care and cumbrance behind,
to rise and poise in happy equilibrium with the
etherial perfect whole.
" I segreti del ciel sol colui vede,
Chi serra gli occhi e crede."
(Secrets divine he sees, and only he
Who shuts his eyes, in perfect faith to see.)
" Whosoever exalteth himself shall be hum
bled, and he who humbleth himself shall be
exalted."
Hath not the plying Charon wafted us, and
are we not sojourners in Elysium ? And may
we not each in his own natural, embryotic, pre-
conceptive sphere, moral, intellectual, or divine,
bask in pure sunshine ? Or be secundum artem
borne through this world's varying scene, far and
away with sure and prying ken, or view all wide
108 EARLY MAGNETISM.
without and deep within the present, past, and
future as in a molten glass. The broad land
scape lies before us plain and palpable as, to our
open eye, this page we now peruse. Nor is this
fancy's dream, or conjured up to serve ap
pliances ; but 'tis the vital truth, approachable,
I trust appreciable by many, (mortal though we
be), humble and meek, let me insist, and willing
to walk into the sanctuary. There, too, shall
we learn that best lesson life can teach, sub
dued and suffering faith, bowing to kiss the
rod. Deep knowledge of dark self, " to what
height thou seest, to that depth fallen !" And
lingering, we shall rise from the confessional
(but entering albeit in fast and prayer), wiser
and better, leaving our dross behind. Thus has
the indistinct small light, first in modern times
discerned, and first announced by Mesmer, with
healing in its train, been gradually nearing and
brightening in its course, and has in the intel
lectual horizon already caught the gaze of many ;
but verily the many little wot of that on which
they gaze.
" Natus humo despectat humum, et terrestria toto
Corde petens, caelo quaerere nescit opes :
Nempe rubo similis, nam cum surrexit in altum
Radices summa fronde recurvat humo."
Steadily, and over all, and through all the
EARLY MAGNETISM. 109
base passions of the worldly blind, the growing
light advances ; the watchers heed it not, but
the all-vigilant inner sense that never can be
tray, has still kept it in the focus of its ardent
ken closely observed and hailed it. Cold
and wary watchers, cry, O tell it not in Gath i
but we would bring good tidings to the people.
What vista comes before us ? Is the secret
of all ages, the deep root of fable, the whole
mythological mystery, after the long gradual
sleep and certain death of eighteen centuries,
now to be disinterred ? (O hear, ye Archaeolo
gists), shorn of its pagan beams, but still
dazzling in its splendour, in its revealed, in
telligible beauty ! The gorgeous Pantheon that
at the Saviour's light grew dim, that
" Saw a brighter sun appear,
Than its proud dome or borrowed pageantry could bear."
And that, like the baseless fabric of a vision,
vanished, leaving no wreck behind. Are we
to burst through the lava of old time, and
like pale, startled ghosts, to wander once again
among the ruins ? And with the blazing torch,
too, shall we pass and pause, and with new
lore expounding every niche and pedestal,
proclaim new voices from the dead ! Such can
not
" like a summer's dream pass over us
110 EARLY MAGNETISM.
without our special wonder." When after the
long conflicting ordeal of human passions and
enduring faith, the inner man, a giant re
freshed, at length walks forth upon this worldly
scene. The royal road is now the public way ;
the patriarchal privilege hath descended too on
us, and filmy, fishy scales have fallen from our
eyes. And shall we doubt by journeying there
on we yet may reach at length the Holy City ?
And there in unpolluted ether again draw fresh
influence to bestow new blessings ; and thus
with palms put forth from inward faith, and
emanating holy air, bring joy, and health, and
peace, whereon they fall, to wipe off every tear
from every eye, to pour essential oil and Gilead's
balm.
Look only back to those not distant days of
simpler, livelier faith, when the royal hand in
pure good will was wont to fall with healing
in its touch. " The quality of mercy is not
strained, it droppeth as the gentle dew from
heaven upon the place beneath ; it is twice
blessed ; it blesses him that gives and him that
takes, 'tis mightiest in the mightiest, and
becomes the throned monarch better than his
crown." And from our slight experience,
friends, can we not foretaste all this, and more
beyond ? May we not lift the inward conscious
EARLY MAGNETISM. Ill
eye, and catch the golden cup, and trembling
draw and drink in ether the pure draught that
yet we symbolize in wine ? Think ye that
nectar and ambrosia too, are all such vague
and empty words, whereof the worthy have
not tasted, known, and felt, and seen ?
" Ergo felices vivunt, nectarque bibentes
Ambrosia? viridi pascuntur gramine, cujus
Copia magna oritur passim caelestibus arvis.
Verum haec non sapiunt vulgo, nee talia vulgus
Credere vult ; quid turn ? Gemmas ne apponite porcis,
Credite, vos docti, quibus est meiis altior.
Sed cunctis non nosse datum est mysteria divum,
Pauci haec percipiunt, mundi quibus annuit autor,
Datque suum, ut possint speculari talia, lumen.
Quare danda opera in primis, ut simus ad unguem
Purgati nitidi, puri, et sine sordibus ullis,
Veste atrd exuti, et niveo candore decori."
The lusty pioneers, brave men and true, have
nobly led the van ; worthily let us too help to
fill the breach that leads to suffering man's re
demption.
But here, friends, pausing let us beware we
touch on holy land, and if it be your glory still
with infidels to battle, and utterly to cast away
the works of darkness, in honest, fervent zeal
then, put ye on the true armour of light, that so
with the invulnerable shield and well attempered
arm we may pursue our sure career, conquering,
112 EARLY MAGNETISM.
and to conquer. Ere we rush on, bethink us,
we come not to destroy, be it but ours to save.
And ere we stand dauntless here to wield an
anceps flaming sword, O let us look well around
us and before us, lest we hereafter cast a long
ing lingering look behind. Twere glorious to
behold the forked lightning flash, did we not
dread, awe struck, the rifting thunderbolt ;
" O ! Man Divine! thy strength may be thy bane."
Yea verily, 'tis sacred ground we tread on, as
told us by the wise and gifted seers of old, in
words of holy writ, ambiguous now no more; and
though we would not thus in our dark ignorance
misgive, or deem the sacred veil of that invio
lable holy temple may by profane Hands be
rent in twain ; yet, gazing on the flash, can we
be wholly unappalled ?
" But my thoughts are not your thoughts,
neither are my ways your ways, saith the
Lord.
" For as much as the Heavens are higher
than the earth, so are my ways higher than
your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts.
" This is the purpose that is purposed upon
the whole earth, and this is the hand that is
stretched out upon all the nations.
" For the Lord of Hosts hath purposed, and
EARLY MAGNETISM. 113
who shall disannul
it,
and his hand
is
stretched
out, and who shall turn
it
back." —Isaiah.
Happy they, who in this world's pilgrimage
have by their good genius been directed through
the labyrinths of science to the goal of Wisdom,
along
a
flowery beguiling way to the central
arbor vitce and the golden fruit
!
From this spreading tree of knowledge already
has sprung up
a
new and mighty branch, the
towering limb of Phreno-magnetism in the wide
watery waste of metaphysics.
Here let us briefly pause then to admire how
Gall, the great master, first struck these sources
of intellect with his divining rod
;
when Mes-
mer's wand came following close behind
;
but
not till lately have they worked in concert
;
their magic power combined would seem to form
a
talisman most potent, evocating fresh spirits
of light up from the vasty deep
;
and
if
they
come when we do call,
O
!
ponder on their
sybilline responses.
Bethink us still, 'tis sacred ground we tread
on, and the Pythia shakes her laurel. Proclaim
to man what man
is
!
" Lord, what
is
man that thou art mindful of
114 EARLY MAGNETISM.
him, and the son of man that thou so regardest
him?"
Slowly, reverently and in deep self-mistrust
let us approach these
" dim discovered tracks of
mind," baffling profoundest intellects hereto
fore, perhaps now to be laid clear ; leading, let
us hope, to precious stores, that are not to be
blunderingly rifled, but by discerning' handicraft
to be drawn and sifted as the ruby, emerald,
and the diamond mines.
" Seek and ye shall find, knock, and it shall
be opened unto you."
Noscere sese, et quae sibi sit cselestis origo,
Haec via, quae superas ducit adire domos.
" What tho' in solemn silence all,
Move round our dark terrestrial ball,
What tho' no outward voice nor sound
Amid their radiant orbs be found,
In Reason's ear they all rejoice,
And utter still their glorious voice ;
For ever singing, as they shine,
The Hand that moves Us is Divine."
But all are now statistical, archaeological,
when the great problem, the mind of man had
yet to be unsolved, and why ? the case was in
EARLY MAGNETISM. 115
tricate, and cobwebs coarse, and finest webs of
sophistry have been woven around it ; truth
plain and palpable has stalked away from us, and
before us ; but a new power is developing itself,
growing in its strength ; let us with due know
ledge seek its aid, and in these latter days let us
ask for fresh and bold abettors in the cause.
" Parvas ecce manus. vagabundis offero turmis,
Unius quia vana est, et sine viribus ira ;
Difficile ac durum est unum compescere multos,
Hei mihi ! quam parvi levis est vindicta lacerti !
Non ego, quod veniam novus ignotusque sacerdos
Gratus ero fortasse minus.
Facta cano, sed erunt qui me finxisse loquentur
Credite, qui terrena volunt, caelestia nolunt,
Qui ad terram accedit, caelum fugit, aethera amare
Nemo potest, nisi sit terreno exutus amore."
The present address, however, might not
have been called forth at the present moment,
but for the announcement of a phenomenon in
the western horizon ; here fettered as we are by
our old and unaspiring institutions, it is deemed
but rashly starting on the forlorn hope to pass
the lines, or quit for simple truth's unprofitable
field, the well accoutred camp ; but now to
" go
a head" seems to be the acknowledged watch
word of young America ; and there in such a
i 2
116 EARLY MAGNETISM.
spirit, (reckless though we call
it)
ere long per
chance
a
splendour,
a
broad meteor,
is
destined
to arise.
The announcement lately made by Mr. Poe (Poe
whose examination ofhis sleep waker on
a
previous
occasion,
is
certainly, supposing
it
genuine, the
most remarkable and deeply interesting of any yet
recorded) of
a
dying man magnetised by him in
articulo mortis, and though inevitable death did
certainly supervene, yet there in his chamber and
in testimony of
a
crowd of witnesses, for seven
months consecutively lay the undemagnetised
corpse, and when questioned by the magnetiser
Poe, in
a
sepulchral voice gave utterance that he
was dead, dead, and should not be disturbed
;
and
then, when at the intervention ofothers, Poe made
the demagnetising passes, the outward body,
the whole perfect form instantly dissolved into
one shapeless mass of intolerable corruption.
This
is
well and publicly attested, yet few even
of the faithful will believe, though one spoke
from the dead. But be
it
true or false to this
generation,
" Ye shall see greater things than
these."
The immediate object having chiefly been to
adduce several texts and passages from sacred
scripture more particularly bearing on the evi
dently very ancient practice of Magnetism,
I
EARLY MAGNETISM. 117
shall forbear to enlarge on the subject in the
present state of the science and lagging reception
of
it,
and shall not now proceed, although the
task were easy to cite the allusions almost infi
nite in every type and metaphor, (without the
key shut up in darkness) scattered throughout
and long admired, (though little light was on
them) the deep adored inestimable gems of holy
writ, not without cause so valued
;
the inner eye
had caught some sparklings of their lustre, and
outward sense devotionally raised, delighted and
refined, and wrapt by verbal sound, and draw
ing from the responsive glow within, have
sometime kindled into light and tasted joy, sur
passing visual rays, far as etherial hallowing
intellectual flame outshines the elemental fire.
" Sicut flamma mari differt, et sydera terra."
Nor let us vainly think we have attained
before, or now, to sources unexplored by pious
seers in days more bright than ours
;
for verily
in chrystal truth to see, there
is
one only medium
through all worlds, whereat when proud philo
sophy has duly learned to bow, she may in one
short hour attain to more than all this long
experimenting age has taught her. Now may
we read with understanding how Solomon would
118 EARLY MAGNETISM.
teach us Wisdom, nor should we all despair ; the
gate more open than before admits us ;
" Salubrious Paeon blossoms into light.
Health far diffusing, and th' extended world
With streams of harmony innoxious fills."
And the star leads on ; we needed but this
spark to catch the dry parched waste of life :
'tis smothering yet, but be ye well prepared to
watch and bear the blaze. An all wise Provi
dence is surely round, directing that it purely
burn, and will in mercy stay the strong ordeal,
that it but come to save, not to destroy.
Finally let me once more with a warning voice
recur, as expressed in sacred allegory, to the
holy ground we tread on. And should it yet be
asked by any what is the meaning of that
phrase ? Let me say, it is what only and alone
the trance presents, the sabbath of the senses ;
deep inner retirement from the every day rou
tine of worldly thoughts and occupations, for
central self-communion ; to feel, to see and know
the yet unstirred, unapproached, unappreciated,
unbelieved, unrevered Divinity within us ; to
waken up the buried Conscience like a Guardian
Spirit, starting in beautiful relief from out the
flat, dull, unprofitable, monotonous picture com
EARLY MAGNETISM. 119
mon life presents ; to pass into a freer state of
being imagined only by the high aspiring minds
glancing at the shadow, but well described and
dwelt upon by those who verily and in truth
have rested on this ground. Believe it all the
great philosophic masters from Thales to Aris
totle, from Orpheus down to Virgil, including
his yet bright more modern name, and Homer
his more bright original, aye may I say, allow
ing no exceptions, every truly inspired originating
mind from Adam to this hour, all have known
this terram incognitam to the many, but firmissi-
mam to the happier few ? Those perchance at
times and at their leisure, only having drawn
pleasure from the bare reflection of what these
had been in close communion with as part and
parcel of their being.
As this magnetic key has in all humility
been thus applied to the two master wards
of the Old Testament, and should
it,
as we
have thought in this instance, seem to open
the way, as surely may we hope reverently and
not vainly to apply
it
to the golden treasures of
the New.
" Know ye not that ye are the Temple of
God?"
120 EARLY MAGNETISM.
But let us hesitate in awe and diffidence, and
ask, is the time yet rife for such a bursting,
dazzling, deep, devotional blaze of revealment ?
Are we in this latter time prepared ? We ask
and pause for a reply ; and in the busy darkness
all around, the faithful monitor within, but
echoes the response,
Pause for a reply.
EARLY MAGNETISM. 121
Startled, awake ye dreamers ! look to the beacon, and ask ye.
Ask, is it even so ? come to the mount and behold !
Trembling come and attend the behest of the Prophet on
Carmel.
See ye the rising cloud ? See ye the hand in the cloud ?
See ye the storm in the hand, and the blessing of rain for the
thirsty?
Haste for a swooping flood cometh, ye may not abide.
But, ere yet ye descend, look well to the omen, it carries
(Even the hand in the cloud) light, may ye catch it, divine.
See if prosperity pour through every jet in the city.
If in the growing fields all, but contentment, abound.
Yea, it is even so ; look well to the signs, and be sure the
Greatness is ripening, all ready to reap, or to burn.
Think ye the harvest ripe ? be sure ye look to the harvest,
Ripe for the sickle ; and self, e'en as the moon at the full
122 EARLY MAGNETISM.
Standeth learning at bay ? and science aghast at her wonders ?
Have we clomb to the high zenith of arts and of arms ?
Are the projectiles ready ? the last new patent projectiles.
Once more havoc ! and once more to the vulture ye cry !
Will ye be brave once more, and away from the ball to the
battle?
Hear ye the warder's blast, soundeth the trumpet afar ?
Have we the brimful measure ? the cornucopia flowing !
Reeking foul doth the world steam with iniquity ? doth
Every vice stand high on every precipice ? topling
Goats ! are the sheep fast bound bleating and bleeding for
Baal?
When it is climax all, one Mammon worship ; we travel
Fast to the goal, friends, fast ! faster, for there shall be
signs;
Then it is written, behold! in mercy the time shall be shorten' d,
There shall be signs, for the Lord cometh, and there shall
be signs.
O ! then open, ye Gates, for the king shall enter in glory !
Open, ye golden Doors, lift up your Heads, O ye Gates !
Every knee bow down, shut every sense, in his holy
Temple the Lord of Hosts cometh, for thus saith the Lord.
APPENDIX.
" Quis monstrum ? Ille pius Chiron," fyc.
Who then is this ? He the good Chiron, the Hand
worker, above all the cloud-descended race, and Tutor of the
great Achilles.
"Felices, animcs," fyC.
Fortunate those souls whose care it first has been to gain
knowledge of these things, so as to climb up to the celestial
abodes. Doubtless they also have been able to lift the
mind up from vice and frivolity high over human con
cerns.
" Sume fidem et pharetram," 8<c.
Take then the Lyre, and bend the Bow,
Apollo manifested be.
Lo ! golden horns now grace thy brow,
Thou Bacchanalian deity !
" Tunc ire ad mundum archetypum," fyc.
Then have we free access to the Archetypal World ; to go
often, and to return, and to behold the Father of All.
" O quant te dicam bonam," Src
Oh ! how good shall I pronounce thee to have been for
merly, since such are thy remains !
124 APPENDIX.
" lilts viva acies hec pupula," fyc.
Theirs is the living light, the holy fire,
(No little sensual pupil of the eye,)
Transporting through all space the free desire,
And boundless blending with Infinity.
"
Sedfortasse aliquis qucerit."
But some one would ask, perhaps, what is Wisdom? Assuredly
it is no other than Causal knowledge, by which the pure mind,
(weighed down by no human burden, and free from earthly
affections), climbs the heights of Heaven, and in Olympus
mingles with the Gods, despising all things mortal ; like to
the Fire, ever aspiring still on High. " 'Tis Athenaea ! child
of Zeus supreme. The aegis-holder, on her father's floor,
clothed in her peplus various, laboured with her hands, the
tunic of the cloud- collecting Zeus, fitted for tearful war.
Around her shoulder cast is that fringed iEgis which all about
is compassed with fear ; in it is Strife, in it is Strength, and
in it chill Pursuit ; in it the Gorgon head, the portent dire and
terrific, the great Prodigy. See on her head the four coned
casque of gold, fitting the footmen of a hundred towns ; the
flaming car she mounts, and grasps the spear, great, heavy,
solid, wherewith, when she is wroth, the strong sired maiden
whole ranks of heroes vanquisheth."
" Non bene tractantur musts," Sfc.
The Muses incline not to public communion, nor are they
drawn in the broad sun-light ; they shun the motley throng ;
the laughing gaze and empty wits of men. The crowd, the
streets, the open air passed by, then will the Muses come and
yield a copious harvest.
" Paltnaque nobilis," ike
And the noble Palm lifts up the Lords of Earth to the Gods
on High !
APPENDIX. 125
" Hac via scintillans sublustri," #c.
This sparkling way disclosed through glimmering night
most brilliant with innumerable stars in the clear heaven,
Elysian, and all sapphirine ; this leads us to the Manes' shades,
and happy fields, and to the secret throne. Here in the vast
concave, with lighted torches, do the Good proclaim Eternal
Glory night and day. Neither do I fear (allowing but the due
poetic licence), to call this the High Olympus and the Court of
Jove.
" Caliyo htec ingens," S(C.
This thick darkness, forbidding you to know the truth, at
once remove ; your eyes will then behold better things ; and
those things which you now may esteem great goods, perhaps
you may then deny to be good at all, and those you now be
lieve the greatest evils, perchance you will esteem quite other
wise. The cloud once cast away from off your heart, there
springs up that clear light of mind, which sees within what
ever lay concealed ; whoever uses this judges of all things
rightly, and he will witness wonders.
" Omnia jam fiunt fieri," #c.
All things are now being done, that still are denied to be
possible, and what is there to which we may not lend our
faith?
" Quare non mirum est," SfC.
No wonder if the world give little credence to these words ;
verily their minds are most obtuse. Biped moles, continually
buried deep in earth, never with uplifted sight beholding
heaven.
126 APPENDIX.
" Corpus sed carceris instar," #c.
But the body is the prison of the mind, which it enfolds with
strength of limb, stifling its etherial keen light, as the
earthen vessel dims the flame whose fire burns within.
" Natus hurno despectat humum," #c.
The earth-born nature still looks down to earth, seeking
terrestrial things with its whole heart, and knows not what it
is to look for wealth in heaven, like the poor bramble which,
having spread far forth its branches on high, bends down, and
with its topmost shoot again upon the ground, once more is
rooted.
" Ergo felloes vivunt nectarque," fyc.
There do the blessed live, and drinking nectar, feed on green
ambrosia, which every where and in abundance, springs in the
celestial fields ; but such things to the world are all unknown,
nor will the common herd believe them. And what of that ?
Wherefore throw pearls to swine ? Believe them, O ! ye Wise ?
Do you of higher mind believe ! But not to all is it allowed to
know such mysteries divine. These things are perceived by
few, approved by the Creator, pouring on them his own Light
proper for such contemplations. Therefore let us first begin
our work by being cleansed, and purified, and clarified to the
nail ; throwing off this dross, and casting the foul cloak away,
that we may shine forth all beautiful in snowy virgin virtue.
" Noscere sese et qua sibi sit," fyc.
To know ourselves, and what celestial origin we come of, is
the way that leads us to the seats above.
" Parvas ecce maims vagabundis," fyc.
Behold I offer these little Hands, (" vagabundis turmis" is
APPENDIX. 127
too truly British to require or admit of translation), for the
wrath of one is of no force. Tis hard and difficult for one to
hold in check the many ; How small is the resistance of the
light lizard against the throng ! Perchance I may not be the
less welcome coming as a fresh and unknown servitor in
truth's good cause.
" Facta cano, sed mint qui me," #e.
I speak of facts, but there are those who will think I tell
them fables. Believe me, they whose cares are earthly, turn
from things celestial. He who is attracted to earth is far from
heaven ; no one can be drawn up with love divine unless he
have thrown off worldly affections.
" Sicut flamma mari differt," fyc.
Far as is pain from pleasure, grief from mirth,
As fire from water, or as heaven from earth.
END.
lOND ON:
Printed by Schulze and Co., 13, Poland Street.
S' -V
December, 1844.
SUPPLÉMENT AU CATALOGUE
DE LA
ANGLAISE, FRANÇAISE, et ALLEMANDE,
DE
H. BAILLIÈRE,
FOREIGN BOOKSELLER TO THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF SURGEONS, AND THE
ROYAL MEDICAL AND CHIRURGICAL SOCIETY OF LONDON,
219 REGENT STREET, LONDON.
H. B. continues to receive a weekly parcel from France, containing the newest Works on Science
and General Literature, which he supplies at One Shilling per Franc on the advertised Price at Paris.
He begs to acquaint his friends, and the patrons of German Scientific Works, that he is able to furnish
German Works and Periodicals every Month at the rate of Four Shillings the Rix-Dollar.
AB1CH. Ueber die Natur nnd den Gusammen-
hang der Vulkanischen Bildungen. 4to. mit 3
cartes, 2 planches. Braunschweig, 1841. 18*.
. Vues Illustratives de quelques Phénomènes
Géologiques prises sur le Vésuve et l'Etna,
pendant les années 1833 et 1834. Folio. Paris,
20*.
ABLES. Eriauterungen zur Allgemeinen Patho
logie. 8vo. Wien, 1844. 9*.
ACHARIU8. Methodus quo omrics detectos Li-
chenes secundum Organa Carpomorpha ad
Genera, Species, et Varietates redigere atque ob-
servationibus illustrare. With 8 coloured plates.
Bvo. Stockholmi*, 1803. 15s.
ACKERMAN. Considérations Anatomico- Phy
siologiques et Historiques sur le Co'ipo du Chill.
4to. avec 3 planches. Paris, 1844. 3*.
AGARDH (C. A.) Ueber die Eintheilung der
Pflanzen nach den Katyledonen. With a plate.
4to. 2s. Gd.
Ueber die Anatomie und den Kreislauf der
Charen. With a coloured plate. 4to. 2s.
—— Icones Algarum Europoearum. 8vo. with
40 coloured plates. Leipsic, 1828. 1/. 8*.
- - . Synopsis Generis Lupinl. 8vo. with a plate.
2s. Gd.
Systema Algarum, 12mo. Lundœ, 1824.
12*.
- Species Algarum. 2 vols. 8vo. Gryphiœ,
1821-28. 1l. 7s.
AG ASSIZ. Monographie des Poissons Fossiles du
vieux Grès Rouge, ou Système Dévonien (old
red sandstone) des Iles Britanniques et de Rus
sie. Supplemens aux Poissons Fossiles. Deux
livraisons fol. de 26 planches, et texte. 4to.
Neufchâtel, 1844. 3/.
Recherches sur les Poissons Fossiles, compre
nant la description de 500 espèces qui n'existent
plus, l'exposition des lois de la succession et du
dévéloppement organique des poissons, nouvelle
classification de ces animaux, exprimant leur
rapport, avec la série des formations ; enfin des
considérations géologiques générales, tirées de
l'étude de ces fossiles. Neufchâtel, 1833-43, 5
vol. in-4, et atlas de 250 pl. in folio, publiés en
18 livraisons. Prix de chaque livraison, 1l. 10*.
Ouvrage complet.
Les livraisons 13 à 18, to complete sets, can be
bad separately.
ALLIONIUS. Flora Pedemontana,slvo enumeratlo
methodica stirpium indigenarum Pedemontil.
2 vols, folio, plates. 1775. 11.10*.
AMMANO. Stirpium Rariorum in Imperio Ru-
theno sponte provenientium Icones et Descrip-
tiones. 35 plates. 4to. Petropoli, 1789. 6*. Gd.
AMMON. Die Angeborenen chirurgischen Krank-
heiten des Menschen. Avec un atlas de 34
planches, folio and text. Berlin, 1842. 3/.
Klinische Darstellungen der Krankheiten des
menschlichen Auges. Fol. mit 55 ill. Kupfern.
Berlin, 1838-41. 11. 12*.
ANALEKTEN liber Kinderkrankheiten oder
sammlung Auserwahlter Abhandlungen fiber die
Krankheiten des Kindlichen alters. 4 voIs. 8vo.
Stuttgart, 1834. 1l.
ANATOMY. The Edinburgh Dissector. System
of Practical Anatomy, for the use of Students in
the Dissecting-Room. By a Fellow of the Col
lege of Surgeons in Edinburgh. 12mo. London,
1837. 9*.
ANDRAL. Cours de Pathologie interne, pro
fessé à la Faculté de Médecine de Paris. 8vo.
10*. Gd.
Precis d'Anatomie Pathologique. 3 vols.
8vo. Paris, 1829. 18*.
ANDRY. Manuel Pratique de Percussion et
d'Ausculation. 12mo. Paris, 1844. 3*. Gd.
ANNALES d'Oculietique et de Gynecologie,
publiés par F. Cunier. Vol. I. in-4. Bruxelles,
1838. 18*. Vols.II.-XII.ln-8. Bruxelles, 1833-
1844. 5/.
. d'Hygiène publique et de Médecine Légale,
par MM. Adelon, Andral, d'Arcet, Barruex,
Chevallier, Deverqie, Esquirol, Gaultler de
CLADRRY, GUEHARD, K.eRAUDREN, LeUKet, MAHC,
Ollivier (d'Angers), Orfila, Parent-Ducha-
telet, Treruchet, Villerme. Les Annales
d'Hygiène publique et de Médecine Légale para
issent depuis 1899 regulièrement tous les trois
mois par cahiers in-8, 250 pages, avec des
planches. Le prix de l'abonnement, par an, est
de 1l. 4s.
La collection complète 1829 à 1844, dont il
ne reste que peu d'exemplaires. 32 vol. in-8,
fig. Prix 14*. 14s.
Tables Alphabétiques par ordre des matières
et par noms d'auteurs des Tomes I. à XX. pour
1829 à 1838, in-8. 2*. Gd.
S. Baîltière, 219 Regent Street.
ANNALES de la ChirurgieFrançaise et Etrangère,
publiées par MM. Begin, chirurgien-inspecteur,
membre du conseil de santé des armées ; Mar
chai, (de Calvi), Docteur en Médecine : Velpeau,
professeur de clinique chirurgicale à la Faculté de
Médecine de Paris, et Vidai (de Cassis), Chi
rurgien de l'hôpital des Vénériens. Les Annales
de Chirurgie sont publiées tous les quinze du
mois depuis janvier 1841, pas cahier de huit
feuilles in-8, avec planches. Prix de l'abonne
ment, par an, 11. 4s.
ANNUAIRE de l'Observation Royal de Bruxelles.
1 vol. 8vo. Bruxelles, 1843. 2s.
ARAGO (Dominique François). A fine Portrait
of. Folio. 5s.
ARCHIV fur die Homeopathische Heilkunst.
18 vols. 8vo. cloth. 1822-40. 91.
. fur Physiologische und Pathologische Chemie
und Mikroskopie in ihrer Anwendung auf die
Praktische Medecine. Von Heiler. Wien,
1844. Subscriptions for 3 Numbers, 6*.
ARCHIVES Statistiques du Ministre des Travaux
Publiques de l'Agriculture et du Commerce,
publiées par le ministre d'Etat de ce département,
4to. Paris, 1837. 20s.
ARIMINENSIS, Fabi, Columnœ Lyncei *TTO-
BA2AN02. With 38 plates of plants. 4to.
Florentiœ, 1745. 8*.
ARNOLD (J. W.) Die Lehre von der Reflex-
Function fiir Physiologie und Aerzte. 8vo.
Heidelberg, 1842. 2s.
AETIS (E. T.) Antediluvian Phytology, illus
trated by a collection of the fossil remains of
plants, &c. 24 plates. 4to. London, 1838. 25s.
ASHBURNER. On Dentition and some Coinci
dent Disorders. 18mo. London, 1834. 4s.
ATLAS de Zoologie, ou collection de 100planches,
comprennant 257 figures d'animaux ^nouveaux
ou peu connus, classés d'après la méthode de
M. de Blainville ; avec une explication par M.
Paul Gervais. 1 vol. grand 8vo. fig. noires, 1/. ;
fig. col. 21. Paris, 1844.
' of Anatomy.
See CRUVeILHIeR.
of Midwifery.
See Moreau, Kilian.
AUDOUIN (Victor). Histoire des Insectes nuisi
bles à la Vigne et particulièrement de la Pyrale.
4to. with col. plates. Paris, 1840-42. 31.
ADTENRIETH. Ansichten iiber Natur und See-
lcnleben. 8vo. Stuttgart, 1836. 15s.
AZARA. Voyages dans l'Amérique Méridionale
depuis 1781 jusqu'en 1801. Publiés par A.
Walckenaer ; avec des notes par Cuvier. 4
vols. 8vo. and atlas de 25 planches 4to. Paris,
1809. 1/. 12s.
AZUNI (Dominique Alrert). Histoire Géo
graphique Politique et Naturelle de la Sardaigne.
2 vols. 8vo. Paris, 1802. 10*.
BABINGTON (C. C.) Primitiœ Florœ Sarnicœ ;
or, an Outline of the Flora of the Channel
Islands of Jersey, Guernsey, Alderney, and Serk.
12mo. London, 1839. 4s.
BACK. Narrative of the Arctic Land Expedition
to the Mouth of the Great Fish River, and along
the 8hores of the Arctic Ocean, in the Years 1833,
1834, and 1835. Illustrated by a map and 14plates.
4to. London, 1836. 1/. 10*.
BAREZ. Medicinisch-chirurgischTherapeutisches
Worterburch Oder repertorium der vorziiglles-
sten Kurarten. 3 vols. 8vo. Berlin, 1840. 2/.
15s.
BARTLING. Ordines Plantarum earumque Cha
racters et Affinitates adjecta Generum enumera-
tione. 8vo. Gottingœ, 1830. 7s.
BAUDRIMONT. Traité de Chimie Générale et
Expérimentale, avec les Applications aux Arts
et à la Médecine. Vol. I. 8vo. Paris, 1844.
9s.
BECQUEREL. Elements d'Electro-chimie appli
quée aux Sciences Naturelles et aux Arts. 8vo.
Paris, 1843. 7s. Crf.
Mémoire sur le Rayonnement Chimique qui
accompagne la lumière solaire et la lumière
electrique. 4to. Paris. 2s. 64,
BEDENKWURDIGE Verrichtung der Nieder-
landischen oft Indischen Gesellschaft in dem
Raiserreich Taising oder Sine. Folio, aveo 93
planches. Amsterdam, 1674. 15s.
BEER und MADLER. Der Mond nach seinen
Kosmischen und individuellenVerhaltnissen oder
Allgemeine Vergleichende Selenographie, avec
un Atlas. Grand fol. et texte in 4to. Berlin,
1837. 3/.
BEER. Les Bains Sulfureux de Trenchen propre
ment dites de Tepliz. In-12, avec une carte.
Guns, 1836. 2s.
BELINAYE. Compendium of Lithotripsy, or, an
Account of the removal of the Stone from the
Bladder without incision; adapted for general
comprehension, with a series of Statistical Ta
bles, and 45 Woodcuts, representing the most
important Instruments and Improvements up
to the present time. 8vo. London, 1836.
8*.
BEKKER, LICHTHAMMER, et BEKKER,
deutsche Ornithologie oder Naturgeschichte aller
Vogel Deutschlands in naturgetreuen Abbildun-
gen, mit 126 ilium. Kupf. folio. Darmstadt,
1800-11. 4/. 10*.
BELIGMANN (J. M.) Sammlung verschiedener
auslandischer und seltener Vogel. 2 vols, folio,
with 102 coloured plates. Niirnberg, 1749. 3/.
BELLUOMINI (J.) Scarlatina; its Treatment
Homoeopathically. London, 1843. I*.
BENTHAM. Labiatarum Genera et Species.
8vo. London, 1832-36. 1/. Is.
BENKO. Ephemerides Meteorologieo - Medicœ
Annorum 1780-93. 5 vols. 8vo. Viudobonœ,
1794. 1/.
BERMOND. Mémoires et Observations de Chi
rurgie Pratique. 8vo. Bordeaux, 1844. 4s. 6rf.
BERNH ARD. Repertorium derNaturwissenschaf-
ten oder abriss der Physik, Chimie, Botanik,
Zoologie, und Mineralogie. 8vo. Berlin, 1839.
7s.
BERTOLINI (A.) Flora Italica. 3 vols. 8vo.
and 5 parts of Vol. IV. Bodonia, 1833-41.
4/. 4s.
BERZELIUS. De l'Emploi du Chalumeau dans
les Analyses Chimiques et les Déterminations
Minéralogiques traduit du Sudois, par F. Fres-
nel. 8vo. Paris, 1843. 6*. 6rf.
BIEBENSTEIN (M. de). Tableaux des genres
Salsola, anabasis et polyenemum. 4to. 2s.
BLAINVILLE. Ostéographie, ou description ico
nographique comparée du squelette et du système
dentaire des cinq classes d'animaux vertébrés,
recents et fossiles, pour servir de base à la zoo
logie et à la géologie, ouvrages accompagné de
planches, lithographiées sous la direction de
M. J. C. Werner. In-fol. et texte ln-4. Paris,
1838-43.
En vente.
1. Primates G. Pithecus, 11 planches et 13 feuilles
de texte. 1/. 8*. 6rf.
2. Primates G. Cebus, 9 planches et 4 feuilles de
texte. 14s.
3. Primates G. Lemur, 11planches et 19 feuilles et
demie de texte. 1/. 18*. 6rf.
4. Parresseux G. Bradypus, 6 planches et 8 feuilles
de texte. 17s.
5. Cheiroptères G. Vespertilio, 15 planches et 13
feuilles de texte. 1/. 12s. 6rf.
6. Insectivores G .talpa sores Eriaiwcus, 11planches
et 14 feuilles de texte. 1/. Us. 6rf.
7. Phoques G. Phoca, U planches et 17 feuilles de
texte. 1/. 14s.
8. Ours G. Vrsus, 18 planches et 12 feuilles de
texte. 1/. 15s.
9. Petits ours G. Subursus, 17planches et lSfcuUles
de texte. 11. 18*. 6rf.
10. Mustelas G. Mustela, 14 planches et 10 feuilles
de texte. 1/. Ils.
11. Mammifères Carnassiers G. Viverra, 13 planches
et 12 feuilles de texte. 11.10s.
12. Mammifères Carnassiers G. Fclis, 19 planches
et 25 feuilles et demie de texte. In-fol. with
atlas. 21. 15s. Orf.
13. Mammifères Carnassiers G. Canis, 14 planches
et 20 feuilles de texte. 2/. 5s.
New Foreign Medical and Scientific Works*
BISCHOFF (G. W.) We Kryptogamischen Ge-
wachse, mit besonderer Beriicksichtigung der
Flora Deutschlands und der Schweitz. Two
parts, 4to. Containing 13 plates. Nurnberg,
1828. U.
Lehrbuch der Botanik. 6 vols. 8vo. boards,
and atlas of plates. Stuttgart, 1886. 2Z. 4s.
Handbuch der Botanischen Terminologie und
Systemkunde. 2 vols. 4to. with 100 plates.
Nurnberg, 1830-1844. 3/. 8*.
BLASIUS. Akiurgische Abbildungen oder Dar-
stellung derBlutigen chirurgischen Operationen.
60 plates, folio. Berlin, 1844. 2/. 10*.
BLUFF. Synonomia Medic ami num. 12mo. Leip
zig, 1831. 2s. 6tf.
BLUM. Die Pseudomorphosen des Mineralreichs.
8vo. Stuttgart, 1843. 8*.
BOCK (C. E.) Hand-Atlas der Anatomie desMen-
schen nebst einem tabellarischen Handbuch der
Anatomie. 2d ed. 4to. Livraisons 1-3, with 4 pl.
col. each 9s. To be completed in 7 livraisons.
BOEGNER. Die Enstehung der quellen und die
bildung dear Mineralquellen. 8vo. Frankfurt,
1843. 2s. Gd.
BOEHM. L. die Kranke Darmschleimhaut in der
Asiatischen Cholera. 8vo. with 2 pla. Berlin,
1838. 2*. Gd.
B05HMER (G. R.) Handbuch der Naturgeschichte
QEconomie und Anderer damit verwandten Wis-
senschaften und Kiinste. 9 vols. 8vo. boards.
Leipsic. 1/. 15s.
BOEHMERI Observationum Anatomicarum Ra-
riorum Fasciculus alter Notabilia circa Uterum
Humanum continens cum Figuris ad vivum e Ex-
pressis. Folio. Halle, 1756. I2s.
BOISSIER. Diognoses Plantarum Orientalium
Novarum e Familiis Thalamifloris. 2 parts, 8vo.
Geneva, 1842-43. 8*.
Voyage Botanique dans le Midi de l'Espagne
pendant l'annee 1837. 4to. avec 178 planches flg.
noires. Paris, 1839-43. Livraisons 1-20. S1.
BONAPARTE (Carlo Luciano). Iconografia
della Fauna Italica. 23 parts, containing 138
plates, coloured, folio. Rome, 1833-43. 231.
BONONIEN8I Scientiarum et artium institutio
atque Academia Commentarii. 8 vol. in-4. Bo'
noniœ, 1748-67. Bound, 6/.
BONNINGHAUSEN. Repertorium ber Antip
sorischen Arzneien. 8vo. half-bound. Minister,
1832. 7s.
BORGNIS (M. J. A.) Traite complet de Me
canique appliquee aux arts. 10 vol. in-4. Paris,
1818. 8/.
BOUCHARDAT (A.) Histoire Naturelle, con
tenant la Zoologle, la Botanique, la Mineralogiej
et la Geologic 2 vols. 18mo. with 308 cuts,
7s.
BOUGARD. These sur le Delirium Tremens, ou
Folie des Ivrognes soutenue publiquement à la
Faculte de Médecine de I'Universite de Bruxelles,
le 30 Mai, 1843. 8vo. Bruxelles, 1843. 5s.
BOUSSINGAULT. Rural Economy, in its Re
lations with Chemistry, Physics, and Meteorology.
Translated, with Annotations, Critical and Prac
tical, by G. Low, Agriculturist, London. 1vol.
8vo. London, 1845.
and DUMAS. The Chemical and Physiolo
gical Balance of Organic Nature ; an Essay.
1 vol. 12mo. London, 1844. 4s.
BOYER (M. le Baron). Traite des Maladies Chi-
rurgicales et des Operations qui leur conviennent.
12 vols. 8vo. Paris, 1822. 3/.
BRACHET. Traite de rHypochondrie. 8vo.
! 844. 9*.
1RANDES (H. W.) Vorlesungen liber die Na-
turlechre. 8vo. livraison 1, with 4 pis. Leipzig,
1844. 4s.
8RANDT(J.F.) Flora Berolinensis. 12mo. Be-
rolini, 1825. 3s. Gd.
end RATZEBURG. Medizinische Zoologie,
oder Getreue Darstellung und Beschrelbung der
riiiere die in der Arzneimitteblehre in Betracht
;<
'
ommen, in Systematischer tblge herausgegeben.
2 vols. in-4. with 60 coloured plates. Berlin,
1B29-33. 4l. 4s.
fc^EGUET. A fine Portrait of. Folio. 3*.
BREHM. Handbuch der Naturgeschichte der
Vogel Deutschlands. In-8, mit 47 ilium. Kupf.
Ilmenau, 1831. 11.15s.
BRESLER (M.) Generis Asparagl Historia Na-
turalis atque Medlca. 12mo. Berlin. Is.
BREYNII, Prodromi fasciculi et Icones rariorum
et exoticarum plantarum. 4to. 32 plates. Ge-
dani, 1739. 3s. Gd.
BRIDEL (S. el). Muscologia recentiorum. 2 vols.
4to. Gothœ, 1817. U. 10*.
—— Methodus nova Muscorum ad natural normam
melius instituta. 4to. with 2 plates. Got ha,
1819. 8s.
BRITISH
'
JOURNAL OF HOMQ30PATHY.
Edited by Dr. Drysdale, Russel, and Black.
Nos. 1-8. Price each 3s. Gd. London, 1843-44.
Published quarterly.
BRUCH et SCHIMFER. Bryologia Europcea,
seu Genera Muscorum Europoeorum Monogram
phiœ illustrata. 4to. with plates. Stuttgard,
1840-44. 24 numbers, price of each, 10*.
BRUCH. UntersuchungenzurKenntnissdesKor*
nigen Pigments der Wirbelthiere. 4to. mitzwei
Tafeln. Zurich, 1844. 4s.
BRUM (F.) Hilfsbuch bei Untersuchungen der
Nahrungsmittel und Getranke. 8vo. with 2
plates. Wien, 1842. 7s.
BRUNNON (E. Von). Ein Blick auf Hahnemann
und die Homo'opathik. 12mo. Leipzig, 1844.
2s. Gd.
BRUNS. Lehrbuch der Allgemeinen Anatomie
des Menschen. Braunschweig, 1841. 8*.
BUFALINI. Fondamente di Pathologia Anali-
tica. 2 vols. 12mo. Milano, 1833. 8*.
BUISSON. Traitg de I'Hydrophobie (vulgaire-
ment appellé Rage) suivi des Moyens preservatifs
et curatifs. Paris, 1825. Is. 6rf.
BULLETIN de l'Academie Royale de Médecine,
publlé par les soins de la commission de pub
lication de l'Academie, et rédige par MM. E.
Parisset, secretaire perpétuel, F. Durois
(d' Amiens), secretaire annuel, et J. B. Bous-
quet, secretaire de conseil. Paraissant tous les
quinze jours, par cahiers de 48 pages in-8. Prix
de l'abonnement pour un an, 15s.
Collection du 1 Octobre, 1836, au 30 Sep-
tembre, 1844. 8 annees formant 11 forts vols.
in-8. chacun do 1100 pages, bl. 5s.
L'annee 1844-45, 15s.
BURAT. Geologie applique, ou Traite de la Re
cherche et de l'Exploitation des Mineraux utiles.
8vo. avec planches. Paris, 1844. \3s.
BURDACH. Anthropologic fur das gebildete
Publicum. 8vo. mit drei Tafeln. Stuttgart, 1837.
15s.
BURDE und WEIGMAN. Abbildung und Besch-
reibung merkwiirdiger Saugethiere nach dem
leben gemalt. 12 large folio coloured plates, and
2 vols. 4to. text. Berlin, 1832. 2/.
BURMANN. Rariorum Africanarum Plantarum
Decas Decima. Avec 100 gravures. 4to. Am
sterdam, 1738. 18*.
BUSCH. Atlas geburtshiilflicher Abbildungen
mit Bezugnahme auf des Lehrbuch der Ge-
burtskunde. 4to. with 48 planches. Berlin,
1844. 1t.
CAMPBELL (J. S.) Observations on Tuber
culous Consumption ; containing new views on
the Nature, Pathology, and Cure of that Disease ;
being an attempt to found its treatment on
rational principles, deduced from physiology, and
confirmed by extensive application, illustrated
with coloured drawings, cloth bds. 8vo. 1841.
15s.
CARABELLI(von). Systematisches Handbuch der
Zahnheilkunde. 2 vols. 8vo. and 4to. Atlas.
Wien, 1844. 18*.
CARUS. System der Physiologic 3 vols. 8vo.
Dresden, 1838-40. 1/. 8*.
CASTEL. Les Bases Physiologiques de la Méde
cine. 8vo. Paris, 1842. 3s. Gd.
CASTLE (M.) Phrenologische Analyse des Cha-
rakters des Herrn Justinius Kerner. 8vd.
Heidelberg. 1844. 4s. Gd.
CAUCHY. A fine Portrait of, Folio. 5s.
H. Baïlliere, 219 Regent Street.
CAVANILLES (A. J.) Observaciones sobre el
historia natural geografia, agricultura, probla-
cion y frutos der Reyno de Valencia. 4to. 2 vol.
in I. With maps and views. Madrid, 1795. 3/.
CAZKNAVE (A.) Traité des Syphilides, ou ma
ladies vénériennes de la peau. In-8, et atlas de
12 planches in-folio, gravées et coloriées. Paris,
1843. \1. Ils.
Abrégé Pratique des Maladies de la Peau
d'après les Documens pensés dans les leçons
cliniques de M. le Docteur Biett. 1 vol. 8vo.
Paris, 1838. 11*.
CHAPMAN. A Brief Description of the Charac
ters of Minerals ; forming a familiar Introduc
tion to the Science of Mineralogy. 1 vol. 12mo.
With 3 plates. London, 1844. 4s.
Practical Mineralogy; or, a Compendium
of the Distinguishing Characters of Minerals.
By which the name of any species or variety
in the mineral kingdom may be speedily ascer
tained. Illustrated with 13 engravings, shewing
270 specimens. 8vo. London, 1843. Is.
CHARPENTIER. Libellulinœ Europœ descriptœ,
et depictœ cum tabulis 48 coloratis. 4to. Leip-
sig, 1810. 3/. 4s.
CHÈRFBERR. Rapport à M. le ministre de l'in
térieur sur différens hôpitaux, hospices, établisse-
mens et sociétés de bienfaisance de l'Italie. In-4.
Paris, 1840. 15s.
CIIEVREUL. A fine Portrait of. Folio. 5s.
CHIRURGISCHE Hand-Bibliothek. Eine Auscr-
lesene Sammlung der besten neueren Chirur-
gischen Schriftcn des Auslandes. 14 bde. 8vo.
kupf. Wiemar, 1824-37. 31.
CHOULANT (L.) Vorlesung iiber die Kranioskopie
Oder Schadellehre. 8vo. Dresden, 1844. 2s. 6rf.
CLOQUET (J.) Manuel complet d'anatomie de
scriptive du Corps Humain. 3 vol. in-4, avec
340 planches. Paris, 1835. Fig. noires, 8/. ; flg.
col. 15;.
COATES (M.) Practical Observations on the
Nature and Treatment of the Talipes, or Club-
Foot ; particularly of the Talipes Verus. "With
2 plates. 8vo. London, 1840. 2s. Gd.
COMMELIN. Horti Medici Rariorum Plantarum
descriptio et icones. 2 vols. fol. planches. A»i-
stelodami, 1697. 1/.
Icones Plantarum, quaquaversum prœsertim
ex Indiis, Collectarum, with 84 plates. 4to.
Lugd. Batav. 1715. Gs.
COMOLLIO (J.) Plantarum in Lariensl Pro-
vincia Lectarum. Enumeratio quam ipse in
Botaniphilorum usu atque commodo eschebet
uti Prodromum Flora? comensis. 8vo. New
edition. 1824. 8*.
COOPER (Sir Astlet). Œuvres chirurgicales
complètes, traduites de l'Anglais, avec des notes
par Chassaignac et Richelot. 8vo. Paris,
1837. 14s.
COQUEBERT. Illustratio iconographia insecto-
rum quœ in musaus Parisinis observavit et in
lucem edidit J. Ch. Farricius, prœmissis ejusdem
descriptionibûs accedent species plurimœ, vel
minus aut nondum cognitœ. Parisiis, an viil.
in-4, de 142 pages de texte, et 30 pl. gravées et
coloriées avec soin et réprésentant plus de 300
espèces. I vol. in-4, cart. 3/.
COURTENAY (F. B.) On the Pathology and
Cure of Stricture In the Urethra; Illustrating,
by a selection from numerous interesting facts
and cases, the Origin, Progress, and History of
this Disease, in all its Phases, and embracing
every variety of Morbid Contraction to which
the Urethra is liable, together with an account
of the mode of treatment successfully adopted in
each case: thus forming a complete Practical
Manual and Guide to the Appropriate Treatment
and Cure of every species of Urethral Stricture.
The whole followed by some Observations on the
Chronic Enlargement of the Prostate Gland in
Old Men, and its Treatment. Third edition.
8vo. London, 1845. 7s. 6rf.
Practical Observations on the Chronic Enlarge
ment of the Prostate Gland in Old People, with
Mode of Treatment. Containing numerous cases
and plates. 8vo, in boards. London, 1839. li.id.
CRAMER (P.) Papillon» exotiques des trois par
ties du monde, l'Asie, l'Afrique, et l'Amerique.
4 vol. in-4, et un supplément par Stold, avec 400
pl. coloriées, reliés. Amsterdam, 1779. 20/.
CRANTZ (J. N.) Stirpium Austriacarum. 4to.
fig. Viennœ, 1769. 12*.
CRUVEILHIER. Anatomie du système nerveux
de l'homme. Partie I. Folio, avec 2 planches.
Paris, 1838. 6s.
. Anatomie pathologique du corps humain, ou
descriptions avec figures lithographiées et colo
riées des diverses altérations morbides dont le
corps humain est susceptible. Ouvrage complet,
publié en 41 liv. chacune contenant 6 feuilles de
texte grand in-fol. raisin vélin, avec 5 pl. color,
et 6 pl. lorsqu'il n'y a que 4 pi. color. Paris,
1830-1842. 22{. 11*.
Subscribers are requested to complete their sel,
as in a fete months the Publisher will not guaran
tee to be able to do so.
Anatomie descriptive. Seconde edit. 4 vol.
in-8. Paris, 1843. 1/. 8s.
Atlas of the Descriptive Anatomy of the
Human Body, with Explanation by C. Bonamv.
Vol. I. containing 82 4to. plates of Osteology,
Syndemology, and Myology. Plain, il. ; coloured,
5/. 15s. London, 1844.
Atlas Illustrative of the Anatomy of the
Human Body. Drawn from Nature by M. E.
Beau, with Description by M. G. Bosamy, M.D.
This Atlas will consist altogether of 200 plates,
small 4to. and is published in Numbers, each
containing 4 plates, with descriptions, to be con
tinued monthly until the completion. 2s. 6rf.
plain ; coloured, 5s. (Parts I. to XXII. are out.)
Extract from a letter of Professor CanvTUhlEB
to H. Baillieeb, dated Paris, June 10, 1841:—
" Je déclare que les Planches sont extrêmement
remarquables par leur exactitude, et par les soins
avec lesquelles elles sont exécutées. Je me propose
d'y renvoyer toujours dans (la 2e edition de)
MON ANATOMIE DeSCRIPTIVE I
(Signed)
" J. Cruveïi.hier."
CURIE (P. F.) Annals of the London Homow-
pathio Dispensary. 1 vol. 8vo. 20 Nos. 1841-42.
15s.
Practice of Homoeopathy. lvol.8vo. London,
1838. 6*.
Principles of Homoeopathy. 1 vol. 8vo.
London, 1837. 5s.
Domestic Homoeopathy. Third edit. I2mo.
London, 1844. 5*.
See Jahr.
CURTIS and LILLIE. An Epitome of Homreo-
pathetic Practice ; compiled chiefly from Jahr,
Ruckert, Beaevais, Bonninghausen. 12mo.
New York, 1843. 5s.
CUVIER. A fine Portrait of. 3s. 6rf.
Iconographie du règne animal de G. CtrvrcB,
ou réprésentation d'après nature de l'une des
espèces le plus rémarquables, et souvent non en
core figurée de chaque genre d'animaux, ouvrage
pouvant servir d'atlas à tous les traités de zoolo
gie, par F. E. GueRiN, membre de diverses so
ciétés savantes nationales et étrangères. Paris,
1830-44. 7 vol. grand in -8. Ce bel ouvrage est
complet. Il a été publié en 50 livraisons, cha
cune de 10 planches gravées. 2 vol. 8vo. de
texte. Prix de chaque livraison, in-8, figured
noires, 6*.
Le même, in-8, fig. col. 15*.
Le même, in-4, fig. col. 1/.
L'ouvrage complet est composé de 450 planches,
avec un texte explicatif pour chacune des divi
sions qui se vendent séparément in-8, savoir :
pl. fig. n. fig.col.
1°. Mammifères, avec le portrait 1 , f'
.î;
*• >.
de G. Cuviïr
J
M
l
'-
2°. Oiseaux 70
3°. Reptiles 30
4°. Poissons 70
5°. Mollusques et zoophytes 63
6°. Annélides,crustacés,etarach-"1
û3
nides
5
7°. Insectes, avec le portrait de
7
,, .
LATBEU.LE.
S
2
2
5
5
0
18
»
5
2
2
5
5
I
1M
4
15
3
6
8
5
New Foreign Medical and Scientific Works.
CUVIER. Iconographie du Règne Animal, 46«à
50* liv. (Texte par Guerin). 2 vola. 8vo. Paris,
1844. 30*.
Leçons d'An atomic) comparée, publiées par
DUMERIL, LAUHILLARD, 6t DuVeRNOT. Se-
conde édition. 10 vol. in-8. Paris, 1836-43. Les
Tomes I. II. IV. (Parties I. II.) V. VI. VII. sont
en vente. Prix de chaquo, 7*.
—— Tableau élémentaire d'histoire naturelle des
animaux. In-8. Rare. Paris, an vil. 15*.
D'ALTON. Die Skelete der Straussartigen Vogel
abgebildet und beschrieben, ufol. with 7 plates.
Bonn, 1827. 1/. 10*.
DAMBERGER, Sechzig Genealogische auch
Chronologische, u. Statische, Tabellen zu Fiir-
stentafel und Furstenbuch, der europaischen
Staatengeschichte. Folio. Regensburg, 1831. 10*.
DAVEY (J. G.) Medico-Legal Reflections on
the Trial of Daniel M'Nauguten, for the Mur
der of Mr. Drummond ; with Remarks on the
different Forms of Insanity and the Irresponsi
bility of the Insane. 8vo. London, 1843. 1*. Gd.
DE CANDOLLE. Prodromus Systemati Natu-
ralis Regni Vegetabilis. 8 vols. 8vo. Paris,
1824-44. 5/. 17*.
Index generalis et specialis ad Prodromum
Systematis Naturalis Regni Vegetabilis. Edidit
H. W. Buek, M.D. 8vo. Berlin, 1842. 1/.
Collection de Mémoires pour servir à l'his
toire du règne végétal. 8 mémoires, in-4, avec
80 planches. 3/.
DEGEER. Abhandlungen zur Geschichte der
Insecten, ubersetzt von Goere. 7 bde. 4to.
kupf. 41. 10*.
DEJEAN. Species Général des Coléoptères. 6
vol. in-8. Paris, 1825-38. 61.
DEMANGEON. Physiologie Intellectuelle, ou
l'Esprit de l'Homme. Troisième Edition, en-
riché de plusieurs Observations nouvelles. 1vol.
in-8. Paris, 1843. 8*.
DESCRIPTION des principaux parcs et jardins
de l'Europe, avec des remarques sur le jardinage
et les plantations, ouvrage enrichi d'estampes
coloriées. 3 vols. fol. 61.6*.
DESFONTAINES. Flora Atlantica, eive His-
toria Plantarum quœ in Atlante, agro Tuneta-
no, et Algeriensi, &c. 2 vol. in-4, avec 263
planches, gravées d'après les dessins de Re
doute. Parisiis, 1798. 31. 10*.
DESIRABODE. Nouveaux Eléments complets
de la Science et do l'Art du Dentiste. 2 vol.
in-8. Paris, 1843. 14s.
DESOR. Excursions et séjours dans les glaciers
et les hautes régions des Alpes de M. Aqassiz
et de ses compagnons de voyage. In-12, 5 plates.
Neuchâtel, 1844. 9*. Gd.
DEVAL (Charles). Chirurgie Oculaire, ou Traité
des Opérations Chirurgicales sur l'Œil. 1 vol.
in-8. Paris, 1844. 8*.
DEVERGIE. Clinique de la Maladie Syphili
tique. 2 vol. in-4, atlas de 150 planches colo
riées- Paris, 1823. 11. 7s.
(Alph.) Médecine légale, théorique et pra
tique, avec le Texte et l'Interpretation des lois
relatives à la Médecine légale, revus et an
notés par J. B. Dehaussy, conseiller à la Cour
de Cassation. Deuxième édition, augmentée.
3 vol. in-8. Paris, 1840. 1/. 1*.
DIERBACH. Die neuesten Eutdeckungen, in der
Materia Medica. 1 vol. 8vo. Leipzig, 1840. 12*.
DICTIONNAIRE Raisonné, étymologique, syno-
nymique et polyglotte, des termes usités dans les
Sciences Naturelles, comprenant l'anatomie, l'his
toire naturelle et la physiologie générales, l'astro
nomie, la botanique, la chimie, la géographie
physique, la géologie, la minéralogie, la physique,
la zoologie, &c. ; par A. J.L. Jourdan. 2 forts vol.
in-8, petite-texte à 2 colonnes. Paris, 1834. 18*.
universal de Matière médicale et de Théra
peutique générale, contenant l'indication, la
description et l'emploi de tous les Médicamens
connus dans les diverses parties du Globe, &c.
par MM. Merat et Delens, membres de l'Aca
démie royale de médecine. Ouvrage complet.
6 forts vol. in-8. Paris, 1820-34. 2/. 12*.
DICTIONNAIRE des sciences médicales, par MM.
Alard, Alihert, Boxer, Chaussier, Cuvier,
Gardien, Halle, Marjoltn, Merat, Nysten,
PlNeL, ROCX, ROYeR-COLLARD, VlReY. 60 VOl.
in-8, half-bound, Paris, 1812-22. 18/. 18*.
de l'industrie manufacturière, commerciale,
et agricole, ouvrage accompagné de 1200 fig
ures intercalées dans le texte, par MM. Bau-
DRIMONT, BLANQUI, COLLADIN, CORIOLIS, D'Ar-
cet, P. Desormeaux, Desprets, H. Gaultier,
de Claurry, Gourlier, Th. Olivier, Parent-
duchatelet, sainte-preuve, soulange-bodin,
Trerouchet, &c Ouvrage complet. 10 vol.
in-8, de 700 pp. chacun. Paris, 1834-41. Prix
de chaque, 8*.
De Médecine et de Chirurgie pratiques, par
MM. Andsal, Begin, Blandin, Bouillaud,
Bouvier, Cruveilhier, Cullerieh, Deslandes,
Devergie, Duges, Dupuytren, Foville, Gui-
bourt, Jolly, Lallemand, Londe, Magendie,
Martin-Solon, Ratier, Rayer, Roche, et San
son. Ouvrage complet. 15 forts vol. in-8.
Paris, 1829-36. Le prix de chaque volume est
de 7*.
DIEFFENBACH. Die Operative Chirurgie. 2
parts. 8vo, Leipzig, 1844. 8*.
DIOSCORIDIS Anazarbei, de materia medica libri
quinque, ad fidem manuscriptorum et cum com-
mentariis illustravit C. Sprengel, Grece et La
tine. 2 vols. 8vo. Lipsiœ, 1829. U. 10*.
DIETRICH (D.) Das Wichtigste aus dem
Pflanzenreiche fur Landwirthe, Fabrikanten,
Forst-und Schulm'ànner, so wie fur Liebhaber der
Pflanzenkunde iiberhaupt. 22 parts, small folio,
each containing 4 col. plates. Jena, 1831-38. 21.
—— Deutsch lands Kryptogamische Gewachse.
Parts I. and II. 8vo. with 26 col. pis. each. Jena,
1843. 1/.
— Synopsis Plantarum. 8 vols. 8vo. Vinaria?,
1839. 3/. 16*.
— (A.) Flora Marchica oder Beschreibung
der in der Mark Brandenburg wildwachsenden
Pflanzen. 12mo. Berlin, 1841. 12*.
DIETERICHS (J. F. C.) Bertrage zur Veter-
inar- Chirurgie und Akiurgie. 8vo. with plates.
Berlin, 1844. 4s.
DISSERTATION sur le cacao et le café et le thé,
sur leur culture et sur les différentes préparations.
Fol. avec 7 planches coloriées. Us.
DONNE (A.) Cours de Microscopie complémen
taire des études médicales, anatomïe, microsco
pique, et physiologie des fluides de l'économie.
In-8. Paris, 1844. 7s. Gd.
D'ORBIGNY. Voyage dans l'Amérique Méri
dionale, partie Paléontologie. In-4, avec 22
planches. Paris, 1843. 2/, 5s.
—— Voyage dans l'Amérique Méridionale, partie
Géologie. In-4, avec 11planches coloriées. Paris,
1843. 3/. 15s.
— L'Homme Américain (de l'Amérique Méri
dionale), considéré sous les rapports physiolo
giques et moraux. 2 vol. in-8, avec un atlas de
15 planches in-4. Paris, 1839. J8*.
DUBRUNFAUT. Traité complet de l'art de la
distillation. 2 vol. in-8. Paris, 1824. 18*.
Very scarce.
Art de fabriquer de sucre de Betteraves. In-8,
1825. 9*.
DUCPETIAUX de la Mortalité à Bruxelles, com
parée à"
celle des autres grandes villes. In-8, with
a map. Bruxelles, 1844. 4*.
— de la condition physique et moral des jeunes
ouvriers et des moyens de l'améliorer. 2 vol.
in-8. Bruxelles. 16*.
DUFRENOY (A). Traité de minéralogie. 2
vols, with plates. In-8. Paris, 1844. 18*.
DUGES. Traité de physiologie comparée de
l'homme et des animaux. 3 vol. in-8. avec
planches lithographi ées. Montpelier, 1838. 24s.
DUMAS, a fine portrait of. Folio. 5s.
Traité de Chimie applique aux arts. Vol.
VII. in-8. Paris, 1844. 12*. Gd.
DUMAS and BOUSSINGAULT. The Chemical
and Physiological Balance of Organic Nature ;
an Essay. 12mo. London, 1844. 4*.
See Boubsingault.
6 H. BaîUière, 219 Begent Séreet
DUMORTIER (C.) Essai carpographique présent
ant une nouvelle classification des fruits. 4to.
with 4 plates. Bruxelles, 1835. 6*.
DUNAL. Considerations sur la Nature et les
rapports de quelques uns des Organes de la fleur.
In-4, avec 3 planches. Paris, 1829. 8*.
Monographie de la famille des annonacées.
4to. 3ô plates. Paris, 1817. 1/. 5s.
DUNSFORD (H.) The Practical Advantages of
Homoeopathy, illustrated by numerous Cases.
Dedicated by permission to Her Majesty Queen
Adelaide. 1 vol. 8vo. boards. 1841. 8*.
The Pathogenetic Effects of some of the
principal Homoeopathic Remedies. 8vo. Lon
don, 1838. 9*.
DUPASQUIER. Traité élémentaire de chimie
industrielle. 1 vol. in-8. Paris, 1844. 9*.
DUSING (Dr. August). Krystallinsensystem des
Menschlichen Auges. In-8. Berlin, 1844. as.
DU T ROC HE T . Mémoires pour servir à l'histoire
anatomique et physiologique des Végétaux et des
Animaux. Avec cette épigraphe : " Je consi
dère comme non avenu tout ce que j'ai publié pré
cédemment sur ces matières, et qui ne se trouve
point reproduit dans cette collection." Paris,
1837. 2 vol. in-8, accompagnés d'un atlas de
30 planches gravées. Paris, 1837. 1/. 4s.
EBERS (J. J. H.) Die Ehe und die Ehegesetze
vom naturwissenschaftUchen Standpuncte be-
leuchtet. 8vo. Erlungen, 1844. 2s. 6d.
EHRENBERG. Zusatze zur Erkenntniss Grosser
Organisation im Kleinen Raume. Folio, with
1 coloured plate. Berlin, 1836. 6s.
Zur Erkenntniss der Organisation in der
Richtung des Kleinsten Raumes. 4to. with 4
plates. Berlin, 1842. 11.
. Organisation in der Richtung des Kleinsten
Raumes. Ito. with 11 coloured plates. Berlin,
1834. \L 10*.
(C. G.) Die Infusionsthierschen als voll-
kommene Organismen. 1 vol. folio, with 64 col.
plates. Leipzig, 1838. 18/.
— — et L. MANDL. Traité du microscope et
de son emploie dans l'étude des corps organisés,
suivi de recherches sur l'organisation des in-
fusoires. 1 in-8, avec 14 planches. Paris, 1839.
8a.
ENCYCLOPEDIE Anatomique, comprenant l'ana-
tomie descriptive, l'anatomie générale, l'ami-
tomie pathologique, l'histoire du dévéloppement
et celle des Races humaines, par MM. les pro
fesseurs S. Th. Bischoff, J. Henle, E. Huscb&e,
8. Th. Sœmmerring, F. G. Theile, G.Valentin,
J. Vogel, R. Wagner, G. et E. Weree, traduit
de l'Allemand par A. J. L. Jourdan, membre
de l'académie royale de médecine. 10 vol. in-8,
fig. Paris, 1843. Prix de chaque, 7s. 6rf.
Les tomes L, IL, III., IV., V., VIL, sont en
vente. Il paraitra 2 vol. tous les quatre mois.
Cet important ouvrage sera publié en neufparties,
ainsi divisée ;—•
1°. Biographie de Soemmering, et histoire de
l'anatomie et de la physiologie depuis
Halles, par R. Wagner. 1 vol. in-8.
2°. Ostéologie et Syndesmologie, par S. T.
Sœmmerrino et R. Wagner. — Mécanique
des mouvemens de l'homme, par O. et E.
Weres. 1 vol. in-8, fig.
3°. Myologie et angéologie, par F. W. Theile.
1 vol. in-8.
4°. Névrologie et anatomie du cerveau, par
Valentin. 1 vol. in-8, fig.
5°. Splanchnologie et organes des sens, par
S. T. Sœmjierbing et E. Husohkb. 1 vol.
in-8.
6°. Anatomie générale, ou histoire des tissus et
de la composition chimique du corps hu
main, par Henle. 2 vol. in-8, fig.
7°. Histoire du dévéloppement de l'homme, par
Bischoff. I vol. in-8, fig.
8°. Anatomie pathologique, par J. Vogel. 1vol.
in-8.
9°. Anatomie des races humaines et des nations,
avec l'anatomie des téguments extérieurs,
par R. Wagnee. 1 vol. in-8,,
EHRENBERG. Der Charakter und die Be*,^m-
mung des Mannes. 2 vols. 18mo. Wien, 1826.
4s.
EICHWALD. PlantarumNovarum vel minus Cog-
nitarum. Vilnœ, 1831. Folio, 40 plates. 21. 10*.
Fauna Caspio- Caucasia Nonnullis Observa-
tionibus Novis. Folio, with 40 coloured illustra
tions. Petropoli, 1841. 4/.
EISELT. Geschichte Systematik und Literatur
der Insectenkunde. 8vo. Lelpsig, 1836. Gs.fkl.
ELLIOTSON (J.) Numerous Cases of Surgical
Operations without Pain in the Mesmeric State ;
with Remarks upon the Opposition of many
Members of the Royal Medical and Chirurgical
Society and others to the reception of the in
estimable blessings of Mesmerism. 8vo. 1843.
2s. Grf.
See Teste, Zoist.
— A Fine Portrait of Doctor. Engraved on
Stone. London, 1844. 4*. 6rf.
ENDLICHER. Genera Plantarum secundum or-
dines naturales disposita, and supplementary
part. Ito. Vindobonœ, 1842-44. 6/.
• und UNGER. Gxundztige der Botanik, with
wood-cuts. 8vo. Wien, 1843. 16*.
. Enchiridion Rotanicum exhibons classes et
ordines Plantarum. 8vo. Leipzig, 1841. 18s.
— Die Medicinal-Fflanzen. Hvo. Wien, 1842.
13*.
ENGLEDUE. Cerebral Physiology and Mate
rialism. With the result of the application of
Animal Magnetism to the Cerebral Organs. With
a Letter from Dr. Elliotson on Mesmeric Phre
nology and Materialism. 8vo. London, 1842
1*.
See Zoist.
EPPS. Domestic Homoeopathy, or Rules for the
Domestic Treatment of the Maladies of Infants,
Children, and Adults, and for the Conduct and
the Treatment during Pregnancy, Confinement,
and Suckling. 1 vol. 18mo. 1844. 4s. 6rf.
ERDMANN. Journal fur praktische Chemie.
From the commencement in 1828 to 1843. 42
vols. 8vo. bds. 24/.
ERESII Historia Plantarum. Cum adnotatiooe
critica edidit F. Wiumer. 8vo. Vratislavia.,
1842. 12*.
ERICHSON. Bericht iiber die Wissenschaftlichen
Leistungen im Gebiete der Entomologie wahrend
des Jah res, 1842. 8vo. Berlin, 1844. -1*.
— Genera et Species Staphylinorum, Insectorum,
Coleopterorum familiœ. 8vo. Berolini, 1840.
1/. 10*.
ERNST et ENGRAMELLE. Papillons de l'Eu
rope, peints d'après nature. 8 vol. in-4, avec 250
planches coloriées. Paris, 1769-91. 15/.
ERSCH und GRUBER. Allgemeine Encyclopé
die der Wissenschaften und K unste in alphabet -
iacher Folge von gesammten Schriftstellern boar-
beitet, mit Kupf. und Charten. 4to. Sectio I.
Vol. I.-XXVIU. Leipsig, 1834. 16/. 8*.
Sectio II. Vol. I.-XII. Leipsig, 1841. 9/. 12a.
Sectio III. Vol. I.-X. Leipsig, 1841. 8/.
ESPER (E. T. C.) Die Europaischen Schmetter-
linge. 7 bdo. 4to. mit 434 ill. Kupf. Erlangen,
1785*1804. 25/.
— — Die Aus&ndischen Schmetterlinge. 4to. mit
160 illum. Kupf. Erlangen, 1829. 10/.
— — (J. F.) Ausfuhrliche Nachrieht von Neuent-
deckten Zoolithen unbekannter vierfiissiger Thi-
ere, und denen sic enthaltenden so wie verscbJe-
denen andern denkwurdigen Grtiften der Ober-
geburg. Lande d. Marggrafthuras Bay reuth. Fo
lio, mit 14 illum. Kupf. Niirnberg, 1774. 16*.
ESQUIROL. Des maladies mentales considérées
sous les rapports médical hygiénique et médico-
légal. 2 forts vol. in-8, avec un atlas de 27
planches gravées. Paris, 1838. 1/.
Examen du projet de loi sur les Aliénés. 1
in-8. Paris, 1838. U.
EVERSMANN. Fauna Lcpidopterologica Volgo-
Uralensis. 8vo. Casanl, 1844, 1L 8*.
EVEREST (T. R.) A Popular View of Homoeo
pathy, exhibiting the Present State of the Sci
ence. 2d edition, amended and much enlarged.
8vo, London, 1836. Gs.
New Foreign Medical and Scientific Works.
EXPOSITION (Souvenir de T) des produits de
l'industrie Française de 1839 ; reproduction ex
acte des principales Etoffes façonnes et im
primées, reeueil composé de 350 dessins réunis
en 50 feuilles coloriées avec soin. Folio. Paris,
1840. 51.5s.
FABRICII Systema Piezatorum. Svo. Bruns-
vigœ, 1804. 8*.
Systema Antliatorum. 8vo. Brunsvigœ,
1805. 8*.
FAVRE. Observations sur les Diceras. In-4,
avec 5 planches. Genève, 1843. 6*.
Considérations Géologiques sur le Mont Sa-
léve et sur les Terrains des environs de Genève.
4to. avec deux planches. Genève, 1844. 6*.
FEHRARII. De Florum Cultura. LibrilV.with
plates. 4to. Ronue, 1633. As. Gd.
FICINUS. Flora der Tegendum Dresden. 12mo.
Dresden, 1821. 4*.
FIEBER. Entomologische Monographien. With
10 plates. 4to. Leipzig, 1844. 8*.
FIELDING AMD GARDNER. Sertum Plant-
arum ; or Drawings and Descriptions of rare
and undescrlbed Plants, from the Author's her
barium. 1 vol. 8vo. of 75 plates. London,
1844. 1/. Iff.
FLOGEL (Dr. J.) Compendium der Physiologie
des Menschen. 8vo. Salzburg, 1840. is.
FLORE MEDICALE. Décrite par F. P. Chau-
menton, D.M. peinte par Turpin. 8 vol. in-8,
boards, with coloured plates each. Paris, 1824.
61.
FLOURENS. Anatomie générale de la Peau et
des Membranes Muqueuses. ln-4, avec 6
planches. Paris, 1843. \l.
Mémoires d'Anatomie et de Physiologie com
parées ; accompagnees de huit planches. In-4.
Paris, 1844. 18*.
. Buffon, Histoire de ses Travaux et de ses
Idées. In-12. Paris, 1844. 4*.
FODERE. Traité de Médecine légale et d'Hy
giène publique, ou de police de santé. 6 vol. in-8.
Paris, 1813. \1. 10*.
FOLDT. L'Omeopatia Smascherata. 8vo. Mi-
lano, 1841. 3s. 6rf.
FORSTER (H.) Praktisehe Anleitung zur Kennt-
nisz- der Gesetzgebung iiber Besteuerung des
Branntweins und des Braumalzes. 8vo. with
41 plates. Berlin, 1830. 8*.
FOURNEL. Etude des Gitcs, Houfllers, et Metal
lifères du Boccage Vendéen, faite en 1834et 1835.
Paris, 183C. 4to".and atlas fol. 18*.
FOVILLE. Traité complet de l' Anatomie, de la
Physiologie, et de la Pathologie du Système Ner
veux Cérébro-Spinal. Première partie. In-8, avec
un atlas de 23 planches in-4, Paris, 1844.
\1. 8*.
FOY. Manuel d'hygiène, ou histoire des moyens
propres à conserver la santé et à perfectionner
le physique et le moral de l'homme. In-12.
Paris, 1845. 4*. 6rf.
FRANÇOIS. Essai sur les convulsions Ideopa-
thiques de la face. In-8. Bruxelles, 1843. 2*.6rf.
FRANK. De Curandis Hominum morbis Epitome
prœlectionibus Academicis dicata. 5 vols. 12mo.
Mediolani, 1832. 1/. 5*.
. (J. P.) Delectus Opusculorum Medicorum
antehac in Germaniœ diversis academiis edit-
orum. 3 vols. post 8vo. half-bound. Lipsiœ,
1790. 15*.
(F. S.) Verzeichniss der Munzen und Medaillon
samrang. 8vo. Wien, 1844. 2*. Gd.
FRIEDBERG. Die angebornen Kranbheiten des
Herzens und dergrossen, Gefasse des Menschen.
8vo. Leipzig, 1844. 4*.
FRIES (E.) Systema Mycologicum, 2 vols. Svo.
Gryphiswalde, 1828. 12*.
—— Sind die Naturwissenschaften eln Bildung-
sroittel. 8vo. Dresden, 1844. 2s.
FREISLEBEN (J. C.) Die Sachsischen Erzgiiuge
in einer Aufstellung ihrer Formationen. 8vo.
Freiberg, 1843. 3*.
FUESSLÏNS. Verzeechnis der ihm bekannten
Schweitzenschen Insect en. 4to. with one co
loured plate, Zurich, 1775. 4*.
FURNIVALL. On the successful Treatment and
Prevention of Consumption and Scrofula ; fe
male disorders connected therewith, strumous
glandular swellings. 12mo. London, 1844. Gs.
FUSS. Correspondance Mathématique et Phy
sique de quelques Celèbres Géomètres du XVIII.
siècle. 2 vols. grand 8vo. St. Petersburg,
1843. U. 10*.
GALL et SPURZHEIM. Recherches sur la sys
tème nerveux en général, et sur celui du Cer
veau en particulier. In-4, avec une planche.
Paris, 1809. 14*.
GARNIER et HAREL. Des Falsifications des sub
stances Alimentaires. In-12. Paris, 1844. As. Gd.
GAUDICHAUD. Recherches Générales sur l'Or-
ganographie, la Physiologie et l'Organogénie des
Végétaux. 4to. with 18 coloured plates. Paris,
1840. 28*.
GAUTHIER (A.) Histoire du Somnambulisme.
2 vols. Svo. Paris, 1842. 10*.
Introduction au Magnétisme. In-8. Paris,
1840. 6*.
Recherches historiques sur l'exercise de la
médecine, dans les temples chez les peuples de
l'antiquité. 12mo. Paris, 1844. 3s. Gd.
GAY-LUSSAC, a fine Portrait of. Folio. 3*. Gd.
GAZOLA. Ittiolitologia Veronese del Musco
Bozziano, with 76 plates. Large folio. Verona,
1796. 51.
GERBER and GULLIVER. Elements of the
General and Minute Anatomy of Man and the
Mammalia, chiefly after Original Researches.
To which is added an Appendix, comprising
Researches on the Anatomy of the Blood, Chyle,
Lymph, Thymous Fluid, Tubercle, &c. In
1 vol. 8vo. Text, and an Atlas of 34 Plates, en
graved by L. Aldol is. 2 vols. 8vo. Cloth boards,
1842. U. 4*.
GERHARDT. Precis de chimie organique. Tome
premier. 8vo. Paris, 1844. 8*.
GESNERI Opera Botanica, edit. D. C. C.
Schmidel. 2 vols. folio. coloured plates. Nu-
renberg, 1751-71. 3i.
Tabube Fhytographicœ analysin generum
plantarum exhibentes cum commentatione. Edit.
C. S. Sching. Folio, avec 31 planches. Turici,
1795. 27s.
GIROD-CHANTRAS. Recherches Chimiques et
Microscopiques sur les Conferves, Bisses tre-
melles. Avec 36 planches coloriées. In-4. Paris,
1802. \1.
GLEICHEN. Observations Microscopiques sur les
parties de la génération des plantes renfermées
dans les fleurs. In-fol. avec 30 planches colo
riées. Nuremberg, 1790. 21.
GMELIN (J. F.) Enumeratio Stirpium agro Tu-
bingensi indigenarum. 8vo. Tubingœ. 2*.
Flora Sibirica, sive historia Plantarum Si-
biriœ. 4 vols. 4to. and atlas of plates bound.
Petropoli, 1747-59. 21.
Historia Fucorum. 4to. with 33 plates. Pe
tropoli, 1768. 6*.
——. Reise durch Russland zur Untersuchung der
drei Natur-Reiche. 4 vols. 4to. and numerous
plates. St. Petersburg, 1770-84. 21.
(Leopold). Handbuch der Chemie. 8vo.
18 numbers. Heidelberg, 1844. 1/. 18*.
GOEBEL (Fr.) Pharmaceutische Waarenkunde.
2 vols. 4to. with 71 coloured plates. Eisenach,
1827-34. Al. As.
GOEZE (J. A. E.) Versuch einer Naturgesehichte
der Eigenweidewurner thierischer Korper. 4to.
with 44 plates. Leipzig, 1787. 1/. 5*.
—— Europaische Fauna oder Naturgesehichte der
Europaïschen Thiere. 9 vols. 8vo. Leipzig, 1791.
21. 10*.
GOLDFUSS. Die Petrefakten Deutsehlands und
der angriinzenden Lander. Mit 199 lithograph.
Tafeln. 3 vols. fol. Dusseldorf, 1826-44. I8/.
Ouvrage complet.
GRAHAM (T.) Elements of Chemistry; includ
ing the Application of the Science in the Arts.
1 thick vol. bvo. illustrated with woodcuts, cloth
boards. 1842. 1/. 6s. Part VI. and last contain
ing Organic Chemistry, 8vo. 9s.
8 11. BaiUihre, 219 Regent Street.
GRABOWSKI. Flora Ton Oberschleslen, und
dem Gcsenke. Bvo. Breslau, 1843. 6s.
GRANT (Rort. E.) General View of the Distri
bution of Extinct Animals. 18mo. In the British
Annual, 1839. London, 1839. 3«. 6rf.
—— On the Present State of the Medical Profession
in England ; being the Annual Oration delivered
before the Members of the British Medical Asso
ciation, on the 21st of October, 1841. 2.t. 6<f.
— — On the Principles of Classification as applied
to the Primary Divisions of the Animal King
dom. 18mo. illustrated with 28 woodcuts. Lon
don, 1838. 3*. (id. In the British Annual, 1838.
. Outlines of comparative Anatomy. 8vo. Il
lustrated with 148 woodcuts. London, 1835-41.
In boards, 1/. 8*. Part VII. with Title-page,
just out, \s. 6d.
GRAVENHORST. Ichneumonologia Eurpocea.
3 vols. 8vo. Vratislaviœ, 1829. 21. \bs.
GRISEBACH. Genera et Species Gentianarum
adjectis Observationibus quibusdam Phytogeo-
graphicis. 8vo. Stuttgartiœ, 1839. Is.
GRISOLLE (A.) Traite elementaire et pratique
de pathologie interne. 2 vol. in-8. Paris, 1844.
I6s.
GROHMANN. Das Pest-Contagium in Egypten
und Seine Quelle nebst einem Beitrage zuin ab-
sperr-Systema. 8vo. Wien, 1844. 9*.
GUERIN. Iconographie du regne animal de G.
Cuvxer, ou representation d'apres nature de
l'une des especes le plus remarquables, et souvent
iion encore figuree de chaque genre d'animaux,
ouvrage pouvant servir d'atlas a tous les traites
de zoologie, par F. E. Guerin, membre de di
verges societes savantes nationales et étrangères.
Paris, 1830-1844. 7 vol. grand in-8. Ce bel
ouvrage est complet. II a ete public en 50 liv-
raisons, chacune de 10 planches gravees, et 2 vol.
8vo. de texte. Prix de chaque livraison, in-8,
figures noires, 6*.
. Le meme, in-8, fig. col. 16s.
——» Le meme, in-4, fig. col. \1.
L'ouvrage complet est compose de 450 planches,
avec un texte explicatif pour chacune des divi
sions qui se vendent aeparement in-8, savoir :
pi. fig. n. fig. col.
1°. Mammiferes, aveo le portrait *>
„ i
,*A
f
„
deG. Cuvter
S
I
12
4
0
2°. Oiseaux 70
2
2
ft
5
8°. Reptiles 39
0
18
2
5
4°. Poissons 70
2
2
5
5
5°. Mollusques et zoophytes
.
... 63
1
18
4
15
6°. Annelides,crustaces,ctarach-7 -,
,
1Q . n
nides j&3
'
13
*
°
7°. Insectes, avec le portrait de
7
.
,
,
« - Q „
Latreille J111
3
6
8
S
— Iconographie du regne animale de Cuvier.
Livraisons 46
3
50, texte.
2
vols. 8vo, Paris,
1844. 1/. 10*.
—.
— et PECHERON. Genera des Insectes, ou
exposition detaillee de tous les caracteres pro-
pres a chacun des genres de cette classe d'ani
maux. In-8, avec grand nombre do planches co
lorizes. Paris, 1835. 1/. 16*.
GUILLOT (N.) Exposition anatomique de l'or-
ganisation du centre nerveux dans les quatres
classes d'animaux vert6bres. In-4, with 18
plates. Paris, 1844. \As,
GUIMPEL, WILDENOW, et HAYNE. AMI-
dung der Deutschen Holzarten fur Forstmanner
.und Liehnaber der Botanik.
2
vols.
4
to. with
216 coloured engravings. Berlin, 1815. bl.
GULLIVER. See Gerrer.
GUNTHER (G. B.) Die Verrenkung des ersten
Daumengliedes nach der Riickenflache. 4to.
with
6
plates.
'
Leipzig, 1844. 10*.
—— Die chirurgische anatomie in Abblldungen.
Ein Handbuch fiir Studirende und Ausiibende
Aerzte, Wundarzte, &c. 4to. aveo 25 planches.
Hamburgh, 1844. 16*.
GURLT (E. F.) Lehrbuch der vergleichenden
Physiologie der Haus-Saugethiere. 8vo. with
3
plates. Berlin, 1837. 10*.
— Handbuch der Vergleichenden Anatomie der
Haus-SKugethiere.
2
vols. 8vo. Berlin, 1833.
18*.
GURLT (E. F.) Text zu den Anatomischen Ab-
bildungen der Haus-Saugethiere. 8vo. Berlin,
1829. 8*.
Anatomie Abbildungen des Haus-Saugetuiere,
Second odition. Parts I.-XIV. Folio. Berlin,
1842-44. 6/. 6*.
GYN^CIORUM Physicus et Chirurgicus, sive de
Mulierum Affectibus Commentarii.
4
vols. 4to.
in 2. Basils?, 1576-1688. 21.
HAENKE. Reliquiœ Haenkeanm, sen Descrip-
tiones et Icones Plantarum quas in America
Meridionali et Boreali, in Insulis PhiUipinis et
Marianis collegit. Fasc.
I.
Folio, 12 plates.
Prague, 1825. U.
HAHN et W. HERRICH SCHAFFER Die
Wanzenartigen Insecten. Publié par livraisou
de
1
feuille de texte et
6
pi. in-8, col. Nurem
berg, 1831-44. Prix de la liv. As.
43 livraisons sont en vente.
et C. L. KOCH. Die arachniden. Public
par livraisons de
1
feuille de texte et
6
pi. in-8,
col. Nuremberg, 1831-44. Prix de la livrai
son, 4*.
60 livraisons sont en vente.
HAHNEMANN. Defence of Hahnemann and his
Doctrines
;
including an Exposure of Dr. Alex.
Wood's Homoeopathy unmasked. 8vo.of92 pages.
London, 1844. 2s.
(S.) Organou der Heilkunst. Svo.balf-bound,
with portrait. Leipsig. 8*.
HALL (Marshall). New Memoir on the Nervous
System, True Spinal Marrow, and its Anatomy,
Physiology, Pathology, and Therapeutics. 4to.
with
5
engraved plates. London, 1843. U.
On the Diseases and Derangements of the
Nervous System, in their Primary Forms and in
their Modifications by Age, Sex, Constitution,
Hereditary Predisposition, Excesses, General
Disorder, and Organic Disease. 8vo. with
8
pi.
engraved. London, 1841. 15*.
On the Mutual Relations between Anatomy,
Physiology, Pathology, and Therapeutics, and
the Practice of Medicine
;
being the Gulstonian
Lectures for 1842. 8vo. with two coloured pi.
and one plain. London, 1842. 5s.
As an Appendix to the above work.
HALLER. Historia Stirpium indigenarum Hel
vetia-1inchoata.
3
vols. folio, plates with Letters
and Autographs from J. Hutton, Jain, J. K.
Smith, and A. Haller. Bernœ, 1768. 21.
Enumeratio Helvetica indigenarum. Folio.
Gottingœ, 1762. 15*.
HANDBUCH der Speciellen Pathologie und The-
rapie der Acuten Krankheiten. Vol.
I.
Bvo.
Berlin, 1844. 10*.
HARTMANN (Ph. Coer.) Institutiones Medlco-
Practicœ. 8vo. Part
I.
de Febribus. Vienna?,
1343. 8*.
Homoopathische Pharmacopœ. 8vo. Leipsig,
1834. 3*. 6rf.
TheorueMorbiseuPathologiaGeneralis. 8vo.
Vindobonœ, 1840. 14*.
HASE. Uebersichttafeln zur Geschichttt der
Neueren Kunst. Folio. Dresden, 1827. 4*.
HAUSER. Versuch einer Pathologisch-Then-
peutischen Darstellung des Schwammes der har-
ten Hirnhaut und der Schadelknochen. 8vo.
with
6
plates. Olmiir, 1843. 3*. Gd.
HAYNE et DREVES. Choix de Plantes d'Euroj*.
5
vols. in-4, avec 125 planches coloriées. Leip
zig, 1802. 21.
Termini Botanicl iconibus illustratl, oder
botanische Kuntsprache durch Abbildunctrn
erlautert. 69 pi. 4to. col. Berlin, 1807. 1/. \s.
HAYNE, BRANDT, etRATZEBURG. Getreoe
Darstellung und Beschreibung der Arzneykunde
Gebrauchlichen Gewiichse. 13 vols. 4to. with
6OOcol. pi. Berlin, 1805-33. 15/. 15*.
HEDWIG. Filicum Genera et Species recen-
tiore methodo accommodates analytice d*-
scriptœ. Folio, with
6
col. pi. LipflUe, 17©.
8*.
(R. A.) Observationum botanicarum, fas
ciculus primus. 4to. Lipsiie. \s.
Tremella nostoch.
4
to. Lipase. U. 64*
r New Foreign Medical and Scientific Works. 9
HEDWIG . De Fibr» vegetabllis et AnimalU ortu.
Sect. I. 4to. Lipsiœ. 2*.
Species Muscorum frondosorum. 77 coloured
plates. 4to. Lipsiœ, 1801. 3/. 3f.
. -.. Descriptio et Adumbratio Microscoplco-An-
alytica Muscorum frondosorum. 4 vols, folio.
-with 160 coloured plates. 1782. 8/.
• Fundamentum Historiffl Naturalis Muscorum
frondosorum. 2 vols. 4to. tab. 20 ill. Lipsiœ,
1787-92. 1/. 2s.
-Microskopisch-Analytische Beschreibungen
mid Abbildungen neuer und zweifelhafter Laub-
Moose. Vol. IV. Folio, 40 coloured plates. 1/.
HEGER (A.) Erfahrungen im Gcblethe der Hell-
kunde. 12mo. Wien, 1842. 5*. Gd.
HEINE. Medicinisch-Topographische Sklzze von
St.Petersburgh. 4to. St. Petersburgh, 1844. 2s.
HELL (Xavier Hommaire de). Les Steppes de la
Mer Caspienne, le Caucase, la Crimee, et la
Russie Mcridionale, voyage pittoresque, his-
torique, et scientifique. Vol. I. or 14 livraisons,
1 vol. in-8, et atlas fol. Paris, 1844. 3/.
HERBST (G.) Das Lymphyefasysystem und
seine verrichtung. 8vo. Gottingen, 1844. Is.
HERZIG (W\) Das Medicinische Wien. 12mo.
with a plan of Vienna. Wien, 1844. 6*.
HEUSINGER (C. F.) Recherches de pathologie
compared. 2 parts, 4to. Paris, 1844. 16*.
HILPERT (J. L). Englisch-Deutsches und
Deutsch-Englisches "Worterbuch. 2 vols. 4to.
in 4 parts. Carlsruhe, 1831. 21. 2s.
HIMLY. Die Krankheiten und Missbildungen
des menscblichen Anges und deren Heilung. 2
vols. 4to. mit 6 kupferfeln. Berlin, 1843. 21.10*.
HIPPOCRATE (CSuvres completes d'). Tra
duction nouvelle, avec le texte Grec en regard,
collationue sur les manuscrits et toutes les édi
tions ; accompagnces d'une introduction, de com-
mcntaires médicaux, de variantes et de notes
philologiques ; suivi d'une table generale des
matieres, par E. Littre, membro de l'lnstitut.
Paris, 1839-44. Cet ouvrage formera environ 8
forts vol. in-8, de 600 a 700 pages chacun. Prix
de chaque volume, 10$.
II a ete tire quelques exemplaires sur jesus-
vclin, Prix de chaque volume, 1/.
Les tomes 1 <S
4 sont vente.
HISINGER. Anteekningar I. Physik och Geo-
grosi under resor uti Sverige och Norrigo. 2 vol.
8vo. with plates. Upsola, 1819. 10*.
HOBLYN. A Dictionary of Terms used in Me
dicine and tho Collateral Sciences. Second
Edition. 8vo. London, 1844. 10*.
HOCHSTETTER. Popular Botanik. 2 vols. 8vo.
bound in 1, with 22 coloured plates. 18*.
IIOERING (G). Ueber den Sitz und die Natur de
GrauenStaares. 8vo.with.pl. Heilbronn, 1844. 3*.
HOEVEN. Recherches sur l'histoiro naturelle et
l'anatomie des limules. Folio, avec 7 planches.
Leyde, 1838. 18*.
HOFF. Hohen-Messung einlger orte und Bergo
Zwischen Gotha und Coburg. Folio with a co
loured plate. Gotha, 1828. 5s.
HOFFMANN (Dr. G. F.) Descriptio et Adum
bratio Plantarum e Classe Cryptogamica Lin-
n«i quœ Lichenes dicuntur. 3 vols, folio, con
taining 72 coloured plates. Leipzig, 1790-1801.
21. 10*.
. Vcgetabilia Cryptogama. 4to. with 8 plates.
1787. 3*. 6tf.
KOCH, MULLER, LINZ. Entomologische
Hefte, Enthaltend Beitriige zur Weitern Kennt-
niss und Aufkl'arung der Insektengeschichte.
8vo. with 3 coloured plates. Frankfurt, 1803.
5*. Gd.
HOLMSKJOLD. Beata ruris otia Fungis Daniels
impensa. 4 vols, folio, with 42 coloured plates.
Haunie, 1799. 1b1.
HOOKER (Sir W. J.) Iconos Plantarum, New
Series. Vols. I. II. and III. containing each 100
plates with explanations. 8vo. cloth. London,
1842-44. 1/. 8*. each vol.
The London Journal of Botany. Vols. I. and
II., with 24 plates each, boards. 1842-3. 1/. 10*.
each vol.
Also published monthly, with 2 plates. Price 2*. Gd.
HOOKER (SirW. J.) Note* on the Botany of the
Antarctic Voyage conducted by Capt. Jam. Clark
Ross, R.N., F.R.S., in H.M.S. Erebus and Terror,
with Observations on the Tussac Grass of the
Falkland Islands. 8vo. with 2 coloured plates.
London, 1843. 4*.
HOPER. Flora der Graffchaft Schaumburg und
der Umgegend. Bvo. Rinteln, 1838. 4*.
HORN (H). Phyiico-Pathologtsche Darstellung
des Schleimfiebers. 8vo. Augsberg, 1844. 6>.
HOST (N. T.) Flora Austriaca. 2 vols. 8vo. half-
bound. Viennee, 1827-31. 1/. 8*.
HUBENER. Die gastrischen Krankheiten mo-
nographisch dargestellt. 2 vols. 8vo. Leipzig,
1844. 16*.
HUFELAND. Manual of tho Practice of Me
dicine, the Result of Fifty Years' Experience.
By W. C Hufeland, Physician to the late King
of Prussia, Professor in the University of Berlin.
From the Sixth German Edition. Translated
by C . Bruchu ausen and R. Nelson. 8vo. bound.
London, 1844. 15s.
Am Tage seiner Jubol-Feler. Folio. Berlin
1833. 8*.
Journal der praktischen Heilkunde. 75 Bde«
1795-1833. 15/.
HULL (A. G.) The Homoeopathic Examiner.
Subscriptions for Vol. III. 1/. 10*. Vols. I, and
II. each 1/, 10*. New York, 1839-40.
HUMBOLDT (A.) Sur les lois que Ton observe
dans la distribution des formes vegétales. 8vo.
Paris, 1816. 2*.
HUNTER (Dr. W.) The Anatomy of the Human
Gravid Uterus, exhibited in 31figures. Atlas, fol.
1774. 4/. 4*.
HUTER (K. C) Lehrbuch der Geburtshulfe fiir
Hebammen. Second edition. Svo. Leipzig,
1844. 6*.
JABLONSKY und HERBST. Natur System al-
ler bekannten In-und Auslandischen Insecten,
ScnMetteRLiNgK und Kafer. 21 vols. 8vo. haif-
bound, and 3 atlases containing 539 pl. 4to. beau
tifully coloured. Berlin, 1783-1801. 21/.
JACQ.UEMONT (Victor). Voyage dans l'lnde
pendant les Annees 1828 S 1832. Publié sous
les auspices de M. Guizot. 49 livraisons 4to. con-
tenant 246 planches. Paris, 1840-44. Prix de
chaque, 8*. " Presque toutes les planches sont re
latives d la Botanique des hides."
JACQUIN. Hortus botanicus Vendobonensis.
Vol. III. folio, with 100 coloured plates. 1/. 1*.
—— 8electarum Stirpium Americanarum historia,
12mo. Manhemii, 1798. 3s. Gd.
Miscellanea Austriaca ad Botanicum, Che-
miam et Historiam naturalem Spectantia, cum
figurispartimColoratis. 2 vols. 4to. 1778. 15s.
— — Collectanea ad Botanicum, Chemiam, Histo
riam naturalem Spectantia, cum figuris, 4 vols.
et Suppl. 4to. 1786-96. 8/.
JAHN(G. A.) Geschichte der Astronomic. Vol.
I. 8vo. Leipzig, 1844. 16*.
JAHR (G. H. G.) New Homoeopathic Pharmaco
poeia and Posology ; or the Preparations of Ho
moeopathic Medicines, and the Administration
of Doses, with Additions, by James Kitchen,
M.D. Svo. Philadelphia, 1842. 12*.
— — Systematisch-alphabetisches repertorium der
Homoopathischer Arzneimittellehre. Vols. I. and
II. Vol. III. part I. 8vo. Diiigeldorf, 1844.
21. 2s.
New Manual of Homoeopathic Medicine, from
the third original edition, with Notes and Pre
face by Dr. P. Curie and Dr. Laurie. In 2
vols, post 8vo. 1841. 1/. 8*
See Curie, Laurie.
Elementary Notices on Homoeopathy, trans
lated by Gilioli, m.d. Second edition. 18mo.
London, 1845. 3*.
JAHRBUCH Berlinisches fur dio Pharmacle,
Von V. Rose, Geulen, Dorereiner, Kastner,
Stolze, Meissner, V. LucjE, und Lindes. 1795-
1840. l2mo. Berlin. In all, 45 years. Half-
bound, 91.
JAMAIN (M. A.) Manuel de petite Chirurgie.
In-12. Paris, 1844. 3*. Gd.
10 H. BazUiere, 219 Regent Street
JAMESON. Remarks on Vivisection, in a Letter
to the Earl of Caernarvon, President of the So
ciety for preventing Cruelty to Animals. 1*. 6rf.
JANSON. Melanges de chirurgie et comptes
rendus de la pratique chirurgicale de 1'Hotel
DieudeLvon. In-8. Paris, 1844. 7$.
JENNER1 "Disquisitio de Caussis et Affectibus
Variolarum Vaccinarum. 4to. with 4 coloured
plates. Vindobonœ' 1799. 5s. 6rf.
JENTI (C. N.) Demonstrate Uterl. Atlas fol.
with plates on boards. Nurnberg, 1761. \l. \s.
ILLIGER. Magazinfiir Insektenkunde. 4 vols.
bd. in 2. Braunschweig, 1801-5. M. 8*.
IORG. Handbueh der Krankheiten des Weibers.
8vo. with 4 plates. Reutlingen, 1832. 14s.
KAAN. Psychopatbia sexualls. 8vo. Lipsiœ,
1844. 3s.
KAEMTZ. Complete Course of Meteorology,
with Notes by Ch. Martins, and an Appendix
by L. Lalanne. Translated, with Notes, by C.
V. Walker. Illustrated with 15 plates. Lon
don, 1845. 12s. 6rf.
KARSTNER (R. W. G.) Archiv fiir die gesammte
Naturlehre. 19 vols.8vo. Nurnberg, 1824-30.—
Archiv fiir Chemie und Meteorologie. 9 vols.
8vo. Nurnberg, 1830-35. Le tout, 6/.
KARSTEN(G.)ImponderabiliumprœsertimElec-
tricitatis theoria Dynamica. 4to. with 2 coloured
plates. Berolini, 1843. 2s. Gd.
. (C. J. B.) Philosophic der Chemie. 8vo. Ber
lin, 1843. 6*.
KASTNER (A. G.) Neue Abhandlungen aus der
Naturlehre, Haushaltungskunst und Mechanik
von der Schwedischen Academie der Wissen-
schaften. 12 vols. 8vo. with plates. Leipzig,
1784-92. 1/. Is.
KAUP (J. J.) Classification der Saugethiere und
Vogel. 8vo. with 2 plates. Darmstadt, 1844. 4s.
Description d'ossemens fossiles de mammi-
fdres inconnus jusqu'a present, qui se trouvent
au Museum de Darmstadt. 4to. and atlas folio.
Darmstadt, 1839. H. 8*.
KEFERSTIEN. Teutschland Geognostisch Geo-
logisch dargestellt. Mit charten uud durchsch-
nittszeichnungen. 7bde. 8vo.undkupf. "Weimar,
1821-32. M. 4s.
KERNER. Le Raisin. Ses especes et variétes
dessinees et coloriées d'apres nature, en 12 liv-
raisons, avec 144 dessins original. Large folio,
morocco gilt, gilt edges. Stuttgart, 1803-15. 40/.
KIL1AN. Atlas of Midwifery. Published in 80
plates, grand folio. Diisseldorf, 1835-40. Com
plete work. 41. 4s.
KLEIN (J. T.) Sammlung verschiedener Vogel
Eierin naturlicher Grosse und mit lebendigen
Farben geschildert und beschrieben. 4to. with
21 coloured plates. Leipzig, 1766. 16*.
Ova Avium Plurimarum ad Naturalem Mag-
nitudinem Delineata, et Genuinis Coloribus
picta (Latin and German). 4to. with 21 coloured
plates. Leipzig, 1766. 16*.
NaturalisDispositioEchinodermatum. 2 vols.
4to. with 54 fine plates. Lipsœ. 1/. 15s.
. Specimen Descriptionis Petrefactorum Ge-
danensium. 4to. with 24 plates. Nurcnberg,
1770. 21.
Historiœ Piscium Naturalis. 4to. avec des
planches. Gedani, 1740. 10*.
NaturaMs Dispositio Echinodermatum ac-
cessit Lucubratiuncula de Oculeis Echinorum
Marinorum cum Spicilegio de Belcmnitis. Ge
dani, 1734. 15s.
Zum Medaillen und Miinzcopiren. 12mo.
with plates. 1754. 2s. 6rf.
KLENCK.E. Memoire en reponse a"la question
suivante, donner l'histoire ; les proprietés phy
siques et chimiques, le mode d'extraction de
l'huille de foie de Morue et de Baliene (Ol. Je-
conis, Aselli, etOL. Ceti) ; faireconnaitrecom-
parativement ot par des faits leur histoire thcra-
peutique. In-8. Anvers. 3s.
*—— Zootomisches Taschcnlexicon. 18mo. Leip
zig, 1844. 7s.
. (P. F. H.) Ubder die Contagiosity der Ein-
geweidewurmer, 8vo. Jena, 1844. 8*,
KLIEMSTEIN (J.) Dissertatio Inauguralis onu-
merans genera Coleopterorum in Dustschmia
Fauna Austriœ. 4to. Lincii, 1817. Is. 6rf.
KLINISCHE Hand-Bibliothek : elne Auserlesene
Sammlung der besten neuern Klinisch-Medici-
nischen Schriften des Auslandes. 6 hde. 8vo.
Weimar, 1829-36. 1/. 10*.
KLUG (F.) Entomologies Brasilianœ. 4to. with
5 coloured plates. 5s.
. . Monographia Siricum Germaniœ. 4to. Cum
Tabulls leneis coloratis viil. Berlin, 1803. 12*.
K.NAUR (T.) Selectus Instrumentorum Chirur-
gicorum in usum Discentmm et Practicorum.
Folio, with 25 plates. Vienna, 1796. 8*.
KN1PE. Geological Map of the British Isles and
part of France, shewing also the Inland Naviga
tion by means of Rivers and Canals, the Rail
ways and principal Roads, and Sites of the Mi
nerals. Beautifully coloured. Size of the Map,
5 feet 4 inches by 4 feet 4 inches. London, 1843.
Price, mounted on rollers, and varnished, 4/. 4s. ;
and ditto, in a case, 4/. 4s.
Geological Map of England and Wales. Third
edition, beautifully coloured, mounted. London,
1841. 21. 12s. 6rf.
K.NORR (G. W.) Vergnugender Augen und des
Gemiiths, in Vorstellung einer allgem. Sammlung
von Muscheln und andern Geschopfen welehe
im Meer gefunden werden. With numerous
coloured plates. 6 vols. 4to. Nurnberg, 1775.
Bound, 8/.
—— Deliciœ Natures Select*, edent Muller. Fol.
avec 73 col. pi. bound. Dordrecht, 1771. 8/L
Thesaurus Rei Herbaria? Hortensisque Uni
versalis exhibens Figuras Florum, Herbarum,
Arborum, Fruticum. 2 vols. fol. with 300 co
loured plates. Witteberge, 1771. 4/. 4s.
KOCH(G.D. J.) Synopsis Florœ Germanicœ et
Helveticœ. Second edition. Vol. I. 8vo. Leip
zig, 1843. 12s. Gd.
(E. J.) Die Mineral-quel len Deutschlands
und der Schweiz. 8vo. Wien, 1844. 5s. 6rf.
KONINCK. Description des Animaux fossiles qui
se trouvent dans le Terrain Houiller, et dans le
systdme superieur du Terrain Anthraxifere de
la Belgique. In-4. Planches, 12 livraisons.
Liege, 1844. 41. 10*.
KOPP. Dentiirerdigkeiten in der arztlichen Pra-
vis. Vol. V. 8vo. Frankfort, 1844. 10*.
KRAUSS. Die Sudafrikanischen crustaceen eine
Zusammenstellung aller Bekanuten Malacas-
traca. 4to. with 4 plates. Stuttgart, 1843. 9s.
KREID. Magnetische und Meteorologiscbe Beo-
bachtungen zu Prag. 4to. Prag, 1843. 15s?.
KROCKER. Flora Silesiaca, with coloured plates.
3 vols. Vratislaviœ, 1787. 1/. 10*.
KUNTH (K. S.) Pharmocopoea Borussica anf-
gcfuhrten oflicinellcn, Gewichse. 8vo. Berlin,
1834. 6*.
Flora Berolinensis. 2vol. 8vo. Berlin, 1838. Is.
Enumeratio Plantarnm omnium hucusque
Cognitarum secundum Familfas Naturalea dis-
posita, adjectis Characteribus, Differentiis et
Synonymis. 5 vol. 8vo. and plates. Stuttgardire,
1833-43. 3/. I5*.
KUNZE (G.) Supplemente der Riedgraser (Ca-
rices) xu Schkuhr*s Monographie. Vol. I.
Nos. 1, 2, 3, 8vo. with 20 coloured plates. Each
part 8*. Leipzig, 1841-43.
KUPPRECHT (J. B.) Uber das Chrysanthemum
Indicum feiue Geschichte Bestimmung und
Pflogc. 8vo. Wien, 1833. 4s.
KUTTNER. Medecinische Phœnomenologie.
Ein Handworterbuch fiir die Arzlliche Praxis.
2 vols. 8vo. Leipsig, 1836. 1/.
KUTZING. Uber die Verwandhmg der Infu-
sorien in niedere Algenformen avec 1 planche.
4io. Nordhausen, 1844. 3s.
L ABILLARDIERE. Novœ Hollandiro plantarnm
specimen. 2 vols. 4to. bound. Parisiis, l-n i-i;. ('./.
LACAUCHE. Etudes hydrotomiqnes et micru-
graphiques. 8vo. avec 4 planches. Paris, 1844. a*.
LAFITTE. SymptomatologieHomoeopathique, mi
tableau synoptique de toute la matiere metliealc
pure. 7 Uv. go, bvo. Paris, 1942-44. W. lbs.
New Foreign Médical and Scientific Works. 11
LAFORE. Traité des maladies particulières aux
grands ruminans, precéde de notions étendues
sur l'amélioration et l'hygiène de ces animaux,
suivi d'un traité sur les vaches laitières, avec une
gravure. 8vo. Paris, 1843. 10*.
LALANNE. Meteorology. See Kaemtz.
LAM ARK (J. B. P.) Histoire naturelle des ani
maux sans vertèbres, présentant les caractères
généraux et particuliers de ces animaux, leur
distribution, leurs classes, leurs familles, leurs
genres, et la citation synony inique des principales
espèces qui s'y rapportent. Deuxième édition,
revue et augmentée des faits nouveaux dont la
science s'est enrichie jusqu'à ce jour, par M. G.
P. DcshaYBsetH.MiineÊDWAKDS. Xl.fortsvol.
in-8. Paris, 1836-44. Prix de chaque, 8*.
Les totn.esI.-X. sont en vente,
LAMOUROUX. Corallina; or, a Classical Ar
rangement of Flexible Coralline Polypidoms, se
lected from the French, with 19 plates. 8vo.
cloth. London, 1824. 8*.
LANGENBECK (C. J. M.) Nosologie und The
rapie der chirurgischen Krankheiten. Vol. 1-5.
8vo. Gottingen, 1840. 21.
— De Retina Observationcs Anatomico-patho-
logicœ 4to. with 4 plates. Gottingœ, 1836. 7s.
LAURIE (T.) Homoeopathic Domestic Medicine.
12mo. 2d edition. London, 1844. 8*.
LAVACHERIE. De la gangrène de la bouche,
avec nécrose des os maxillaires. 8vo. \s. Gd.
LEBAUDY. The Anatomy of the Regions inte
rested in the Surgical Operations performed upon
the Human Body ; with occasional Views of the
Pathological Conditions which render the inter
ference of the Surgeon necessary. In a series of
18 plates on India paper, the size of life. With
additions. Folio. London, 1835. 1/. 4*.
LE BLANC. Nouvelle méthode d'opérer les her
nies, avec une essai sur des hernies rares et peu
connues, par M. Hoin. 2 vol. in-8. Paris, 1782.
13*.
LECOQ, (H), Precis élémentaire de Botanique
et de Physiologie végétale, contenant l'Histoire
complète de toutes les parties des Plantes, et
l'Exposition des règles à suivre pour décrire et
classer des Végétaux. In-8. Paris, 1831. 5s.
—— et JUILLET. Nouveau Dictionnaire Rai
sonné des Termes de Botanique et des Fa
milles naturelles, contenant l'Etymologie et la
Description détaillée de tous les Organes, leur
Synanomie, et de la Définition des Adjectifs.
1 vol. in-8. Paris, 1841. 9*.
LEDEBOUR. Flora Altaica. 4 vols, bound, and
Supplement. Berolini, 1829-36. 1/. 10*.
LEDRU (Andre Pieree). Voyage aux Iles de
Ténériffie, La Trinité, St. Thomas, St. Croix, et
Porto Ricco. 2 vol. in-8. Paris, 1810. 8$.
LEE (R.) The Anatomy of the Nerves of the
Uterus. Folio, with 2 engraved plates. London,
1841. Bs.
LEERS (J. D.) Flora Herbornensis exhibens
Plantas circa Herbornam Nassoviorum cres-
centes. 8vo. with 16 plates. Berlin, 1789. 6*.
LEHMANN. Lehrbuch der Physiologischen Chê
naie. 8vo. Leipzig, r842. 9*.
LEIBNITII et BERNOULLII. Commercium
Philosophicum et Mathematician. 2 vols. 4to.
Lausanne, 1745. 15*.
LEIGHTON (W.A.) A Flora of Shropshire. 8vo.
cloth, with plates. London, 1841. 18*.
LE MAOUT (E.) Leçons élémentaires de Bo
tanique, fondées sur l'analyse de 50 plantes vul
gaires, et formant un traité complet d'Organo-
graphie et de Physiologie Végétale, à l'usages des
étudiens et des gens du monde. In-8, avec 254
figures. Paris, 1843. Prix, figures noires, 15s. ;
coloriées, 1/. bs.
LEMONNIER. Programme de l'enseignement de
l'histoire naturelle dans les collèges, adopté par
le conseil royal de l'instruction publique, disposé
en 49 tableaux méthodiques. Troisième édit.
in-4. Paris, 1840. Cartonné, fig. coloriées, 1/. 4s. ;
fig. noires, 10s.
LEONHARD. Propœdeutik der Mineralogie mit
10 schwarzen und ausgemalten Kupfertafeln,
Folio. Frankfort, 1817. 1/. 4s.
LE PRIEUR. L'homme considéré dans ses rap
ports avec l'atmosphère, ou nouvelle doctrine dès
épidémies. 2 vol. in-8. Paris, 1825. lu*.
LEROY (D'Etiolles). Receuil de lettres et de
mémoires adressés à l'Académie des Sciences
pendant les années 1842 et 1843. In-8. Paris,
1844. bs.
LERSCH (L.) Fabius Planciades Fulgentius de
abstrusis Sermonibus. 8vo. Bonn, 1844. 4s.
LEVAILLANT (F.) Histoire naturelle des per
roquets. 2 vols, large folio, demie rel. with 139
coloured plates. Paris, 1804. 12/.
LEVRET. Essai sur l'Abus des régies générales
et contre les préjugés qui s'opposent au progrès
de l'art des Accouchmens, avec figures. In-8.
Paris, 1766. 4s.
-Observations sur la oure radicale de plusieurs
polypes de la Matrice de la Gorge, et du Nez.
Troisième édition. 1 vol. in-8. Paris, 1759. 6*.
L'art des accouchemens, démontré par des
principes de physiques et de méchaniques.
Troisième édition, revue et corrigée par l'Au
teur ; avec un abrégé de son sentiment sur les
aphorismes de Mauriceau. In-8. Paris, 1766. 5s.
LEVY (M.) Traité d'Hygiène publique et privée.
Vol. T. In-8. Paris, 1844. 7s.
LEYSSER (F. W.) Flora Halensis exhibens
plantas circa halam salicam crescentes secundum
systema sexuale Linneanum distributas. 8vo.
Haie Salicœ, 1783. 4s.
L'HERITIER. Traité de chimie pathologique, ou
recherches chimiques sur les solides et les li
quides du corps humain, dans leurs rapports avec
la physiologie et la pathologie. In-8, avec une pl.
Paris, 1842. 9*.
Stirpes Novœ Descriptionibus et Iconibus il-
lustrata1. Large fol. avec 84 planches. Paris,
1784. 11. 10*.
...- - Cornus Specimen Botanicum sistens Descrip-
tiones et Icones specierum Corminus cognitarum.
Folio, avec 6 planches. Paris, 1788. 10*.
LIEBIG. Poggendorff und Wholer Handworter-
buch der reinen und angezwandten Chemie.
Vol. I. svo. bd. Braunschweig, 1842. 18*.
Chemische Briefe. 12mo. Heidelberg, 1844.
Traité de Chimie Organique. 3 vols. 8vo. 6s.
Paris, 1840-44. U. 5s.
. Séparément. Vol. III. 8vo. Paris, 1844. 7s.
LINN.3SI Amoenitates Academicœ. 10 vols. 8vo.
plates. Editio tertia. Erlangœ, 1787. 21. bs.
Systema, Genera, Species Plantarum. Editio
critica, adstrïcta, conferta sive Codex Botanicus
Linnœanus, cum plena editionum discrepantia
exhibens. In usum Botanicorum Practicum,
edidit H. E. Richter. 4to. Lipsi», 1840. 3/. 16*.
Systema Vegetabilium, edent. Speengel.
5 vols. 8vo. half-bound. Gottingœ, 1825. 3/. 10*.
Oratio de Necessitate Peregrinationum intra
Patriam, &c. 8vo. Lugd. Bat. 1743. ls. 6rf.
. Genera Plantarum. Editio nova curante C.
Speengel. 2 vols. 8vo. Goettingœ, 1832. U.
LINNjEA : ein Journal fiir die Botanik in ihrem
ganzen Umfange Hcrausgegeben von Schlec-
tendal. From the commencement, in 1826, to
1832. 13 vols. 8vo. boards. 9/.
LITTRE. Œuvres complètes d'Hippocrate, tra
duction nouvelle, avec le texte Grec en regard.
Tome IV. In-8. Paris, 1844. 10*. Les quatres
volumes, 21.
Aphorismes d'Hippocrate. In-12. Paris,
1844. 3s.
LITZMANN (C. T. C.) Das kindbettfieber in
nosologischer, geschichthiher und tberapeutis-
cher Beziehung. 8vo. Halle, 1844. 12*.
LOHRMANN (AV. G.) Topographie der sicht-
baren Mondoberfiache. Part I. 4to. with 6
plates. Dresden, 1824. 15s.
—— Poids médicaux et pharmaceutiques de tous
les états et villes libres de l'Europe, en 28 ta
bleaux particuliers. In-4. Leipsic, 1832. 8*.
LOlSELEUR-DESLONGCnAMPS. Flora Gal-
lica, seu enumeratio Plantarum in Gallia sponte
nascentium, secundum Linnjeum disposita, ad*
dita familiarum naturalium synopsi . Nova editio,
emendata, aucta. Parisiis, 1828. 2 vol. in-8,
cum Tabulia XXXI. 16*.
12 H. BaiUibre, 219 Regent Street
LONGET (F. A.) Anatomie et phyiiologle du
systeme nerveux de l'homme et des animaux
vertebrcs ; ouvrage contenant des observations
pathologiques relatives au systOme nerveux et
des experiences sur les aniniaux des classes
superieures. 3 vol. in-8. Paris, 1843. 18*.
LOUREIRO (Joannes). Flora Cochinchinensis,
sistens plantas in regno Cochinchlna nascentes,
Edent. Wjxldenow. 8vo. 2 vols. in 1. Berlin,
1793.
LOW (G.) See Bousstngault.
LUDWIG (C. Fa.) Delectus Opusculorum. Vol. I.
8vo. Leipzig, 1790. 6*.
(C. G.) Genera Plantarum. 8vo. Lipsia?,
I760. 5*.
. Scriptores nevrologlcl mlnores selecti. 81
Opera minora ad Anatomlam, Physlologiam, et
Pathologiam, Nervorum spectantia. 4 vols. 4to.
plates. Leipzig, 1791-95. 3/. 15*.
LUGOL. Recherches et observations sur les
causes des maladies Scrofuleuses. In-8. Paris,
1844. 7*.
LYONET. Traite anatomique do la chenille qui
rouge lebois de saule. In-4, avec 18 planches.
LaHaye, 1762. 2/. 10*.
MAGAZIN der Gesellschaft Naturforschender
Freunde zu Berlin. Neue Schriften. 4 vols.
4to. containing 26 plates. Berlin, 1795-1803. 41.
MAGAZINE of Zoology and Botany. Conducted
by Sir W. Jardine, Bart., P. J. Selry, Esq.,
and Dr. Johnston. 2 vols. 8vo. Edinburgh,
1837-38. 15*.
MAGNETISM (le), et le Somnambulism devants
les corps savants la cour de Rome et les Theo-
logiens. 8vo. Paris, 1844. 7*.
MAGNOL. Hortus Regius Monspellensls. 8vo.
19 plates. 1697. 2*.
MAILLIOT. Traité Pratique de Percussier.
12mo. Paris, 1843. Zs.Gd.
MAN, Natural History of. See Pricdard.
MANDL. Anatomie Microscopique, divisee en
deux series, tissus et organes, liquides. Paris,
1838-44. Cet ouvrage formera 25 livr., publiées
par cahiers de 5 feuilles et do texte et 2 pi.
Prix de chaque livraison, 6*.
16 livraisons publiées comprennent : Premiere
aerie: 1°, Muscles ; 2° et 3°, Nerfs et Cer-
veau ; 4° et 5°, Appendices tegumentaires ; 6°, Ter-
minahondes nerfs; 7°, Cartilages, Os et Dents ;
8°, Tissus celluleux et adipeuz ; 9°, Tissus sireux,
Jibrcux et tiastiqucs. Deuxième serie : 1°, Sang;
2°, Pus et Mucus ; 3°, Lait et Urine, (pidermes,
et Epithelium, Glandes.
Manuel d'anatomie generale appliquee a la
physiologie et la pathologic. In-8, avec 5 pi. gr.
Paris, 1843. 8s.
. et EHREMBERG (C. G.) Traite pra
tique du Microscope et de son emploi dans Petude
des corps organises suivi de recherches sur l'or-
ganisation des animaux infusoires. In-8, avec 14
pi. Paris, 1830. 8*.
MANN (J. G.) Deutschlands gefahrlichste Gi-
fitpflanzen. Tab. 24 coloured. Folio. Stutt
gart, 1829. U.
MANUAL of Veterinary Homoeopathy. Com
prehending the Treatment of the Diseases in
Domestic Animals. 18mo. London, 1841. 4*.
MAPPI. Historia Plantarum Asiaticarum. 4to.
with 7 plates. Amstelodami, 1742. 3*.
MARCHAND. Lehrbuch der Physiologischen
Chemie. 8vo. Berlin, 1844. 10*.
MARCHETTI. Dell* Ottalmoscopia e dell* In-
troduzione alio studio dell' ottalmologla. 8vo.
Pavia, 1834. 6*.
MARSHAL. Des Abces Phlegmoneux intra pel-
viens. 8vo. Paris, 1844. 3*. 6rf.
MARTIN (W. C. L.) A General Introduction to
the Natural History of Mammiferous Animals.
"With a particular View of the Physical History
of Man, and the more closely allied Genera of the
Order " Quidrumana," or Monkeys. Illustrated
with 296 Anatomical, Osteological, and other
Engravings on Wood, and 12 full-plate Repre
sentations of Animals, drawn by W. Harvet.
1 vol. 8vo, London, 1841. 16*.
MARTINI. Der vorbesserte geschichte Han-
shalter und fertige Kauffmann. 8vo. Berlin,
1797. 2*. 6rf.
und CHEMNITZ. Neues systematicbw
Conchy lien- Cabinet. 12 vol. in-4. Fig. coi.
Niimberg, 1769-1820. 20/.
MARTINS (Cn.) Meteorology. See Kaemtz.
MARTIUS. Lehrbuch der pharmaceutischen
Zoologio. 8vo. with 3 plates. Stuttgart, IS3S.
5*.
—— Grundriss der Pharmakognosie des Pnanxen-
reichs. 8vo. Erlangen, 1832. 9*.
—— Systema materia-* medicœ vegetabills Bra-
siliensis. 8vo. Lipsia?, 1843. 4*.
—— (Ph.) Decas Plantarum Mycetoidearum.
4to. with a coloured plate. 2*.
—— Agrostographia Brasiliensis, auctore Nees ab
Essenreck. 8vo. Stuttgartuc, 1829. 12*.
Dissertatio Inauguralis sistens Plantarum
Horti Academici Erlangensis Enumerationem.
8vo. Erlangen. 2*.
-Choix des pi antes remarquables du Jardia
Botanique Royal de Munic. In-4, avec 16planches,
fig. col. Franckfurt, 1827-31. 1/. As.
und SPIX (J. B. von). Avium species nova?.
Cura J. B. de Spix. 2 vols. 4to. cum 222 tabulis
lith. etcol. Munich, 1825-6. 33/. 12*.
Serpentum species nova*. Cura J. Waoler.
Cum 28 tabulis lith. et col. Munich, 1824.
6/. 8*.
Testacea fiuviatilia. Collegit et curavit
J. B. de Spix et J. A. Wagner. Cum 29 tabulis
lith. et col. Munich, 1827. 3/. 9*.
Genera et species Plscium. Cura J. B. de
Spix et L. Agassiz. Cum 98 tabulis litb. et col.
Munich, 1829-31. 14/. 12*.
-Delectus Animalium articulatorum. Cura
M. Peety. 3 Parts cum 40 tabulis lith. et col-
Munich, 1830-34. 11/.
-Reise in Brasilten in Jahr. 1817-20. 3 vols.
4to. and atlas of 53 lith. pis. folio. 8/. 12*.
Von Dem Rechtszustande unter Den Urein-
wohnern Braziliens. 4to. Munchen, 1832. S*.
—— Icones Plantarum Cryptogamicarum auc.
^ C. F. P, Martius. Cum 76 tab. col. 4t«>.
Monachii, 1827-34. 15/.
Genera et Species Palmarum, cur. C. F. P.
Martius. VI. fasc. cum 177 tab. col. Grand
in-fol. Monachii, 1823-36. 60/.
Nova Genera et Species Plantarum, coll. et
descr. C. P. P. Martius et J. G. Zuccarini.
3 vols. 4to. cum 300 tab. col. Monachii, 1824-31.
GO/.
und ENDLICHER. Flora Brasiliensis sire
Enumeratio Plantarum in Brasilia. Folio.
Parts I. II. et III. avec 34 planches, tig. noire*.
Vindobonœ, 1840-41. 5/. 16*.
MARX. Ueber die Abnahme der Krankhehen
durch die Zunahme der Civilisation. 4to. Got-
tingen, 1844. 3*.
(K. F. H.) Akesios Blicke in die ethischen
Beziehungen der medicin. 8vo. Giittingen, tMi.
3*.
. Eine Gedachtniss Rede, zum Andeuken
an Jonan n Friedericu Bluuenrach. -ito.
Gdttingen, 1840. 3*.
MATTEUCCI. Traite des Phfenomènes Electro-
Physiologique des Animaux suivi d'etudes Ana
tomique sur le systéme nerveux et sur I'organe
electrique de la Torpille avec des planches. 8ro.
Paris, 1844 8*.
MATTHIOLI. Commentarii in sex Libras Pe-
dacii Dioscoridis Anazarbei de Medica Materia.
2 vols. folio. Venetiis, 1565. 1/. 10*.
MAYER. Analecten fur Vergleichen dc anatomie.
4to. Mit. Sieben Tafeln. Bonn, 1835. 6j.
(J. C. A.) Einheimische Giftgewiichse
welche fUr Menschen am schadlichsten sin-i.
Folio, with 11 coloured plates. 1798-1801, und
Vorzugliche Einheimische Essbare Schwamme.
Folio, with 3 coloured plates. Berlin, 1801. 15*.
MEADE (\V.) A Manual for Students who are
Preparing for Examination at Apothecaries
Hall. 12mo. London, 1839. 10*. GU.
MECKEL. De Duplicitate Monstrosa comments.-
rius. Folio. HaUe, 1725. )/.
i
New Foreign Medical and Scientific Works. 13
MECKEL. System der verglelchenden Anatomic
8 vols. 8vo. Halle, 1821. 3l.
Tabulœ Anatomico-Patliologicœ. Pt. I.-IV.
rait33Kupf. Leipsig, 1817-26. V.
(F.) Manuel d'anatomie générale, descrip
tive et pathologique ; traduit de l'Allemand, et
augmentée des faits nouveaux dont la science
s'est enrichie jusqu'à ce jour, par G. Breschet,
et A. J. L. Jourdan, D.M.P. 3 vol. in-8, de 800
pages chacun. Paris, 1825. 21. 10s.
Traité général d'anatomie comparée ; trad, de
l'Allemand par Risster et A. Sanson. 10 vol.
in-8. Paris, 1829-38. 3l.
—— Deutsches archiv fur physiologie. 8 vol. In-8,
fig. Halle, 1815-23. 2/.
MEDICIS. Unachter Acacien-Baum. 6 vols, in
9, 8vo. coloured plates. Leipzig, 1796-1798.
15s.
MEIDINGER. Icones Piscium Austrl» indige-
norum in-fol. With 50coloured plates. Viennœ,
1785-1794. 3/.
MEINICKE (Carï, E.) Die Sudfeeuolker und
das Christenthum. 8vo. Brenslaw, 1844. 4s.
MEISSNER. Die Kindorkrankheiten. 2 vols.
8vo. Leipsig, 1828. 15s.
MEMOIRES de la Société Géologique de France.
Deuxième séries, tome premier. Première partie,
avec 6 planches. Paris, 1844. lbs.
. -de l'Académie Impériale des Sciences de St.
Pétersbourg. Tome V. année 1812. In-4. St.
Pétersbourg, 1815. 15*.
de l'Académie des Sciences de Turin. 6 vol.
in-4. Turin, 1784-1800. 3/.
de l'Académie Royal de Médecine de Paris.
Tomes I. à X. Paris, 1828-43. Prix de chaque
vol. 1/.
Les 10 vols, pris ensemble, S1. 10*.
(nouveaux) de l'Académie Royale des Sciences
et Belles-Lettres, 1772-73. 2 vol. in-4. Berlin.
U. 10s.
de la Société de Physique et d'Histoire Natu
relle de Genève. Vol. VII. Part IL In-4. Ge
nève, 1836. 10*.
de la Société Médicale d'observations. 2 vol.
In-8. Paris, 1837-1843. 16*.
MENEGHINL Richerche sulla Shuttara des
Caule nelie Piante Monocotiledoni. 4to. with
10 plates. Padova, 1836. 16*.
MENONVILLE (Thierey de). Traité de la cul
ture du Nopal, et de l'éducation de la Cochenille
dans les colonies Françaises de l'Amérique.
2 vol. in-8. Paris. 6*.
MERZ (L.) Die neuren Verbesserungen am
Microscope. 8vo. Miiuchen, 1844. 2*. 6rf.
MEYER (C. A.) Verzeichniss derPflanzen, welche
am westlichen Ufer des Caspischen Meeres ge-
sammelt morden sind. 4to. St. Petersburg,
1831. 8*.
Novœ Plantarum Species. 4to. with plates.
3s.
(G. F. W.) Eine Anlage zur Flora des
Kdnigreichs Hannover. 2 vols. 8vo. with platea.
Gottingen, 1822. 10*.
Chloris Hanoverana odor nach der natur-
lichten Familien geordnete Uebersicht den im
Kônigreiche Hannover wildwachsenden sichtbar
bliihenden GewUchse und Farn. 4to. Gottingen,
1836. U.
Primitiœ Florœ Esqueboensis adjectis descrip-
tionibus centum circiter stirpium novarum ob
servation ibusque criticis. 4to. with 2 plates.
Gottingœ, 1818. 15s.
METCALFE (S.) The Natural History of Cre
ation. In 1 vol. poet 8vo. with plates. London,
1845.
(In the Press.)
MICHELIN. Iconographie zoophytologique de
scription des polypiers fossiles de France. Liv.
I. ;ï XV. avec planches. 4to. Paris, 1843-44.
Chaque, 3s.
M1KAN. Delectus Flora Fauna Braslliensis. 4
fasc. fol. coloured plates. 1825. 6/.
MIQUEL (F. A. W.) Sertum Exoticum, con
tenant des Figures de Plantes Nouvelles, ou
peu connues. Livraison L 4to. with 5 plates and
text. Rotterdam, 1843. 5s.
MIQUEL (F. A. 'Vf.) Commentaril Phytographici
quibus varia rei Herbariœ capita, illustrator.
Folio. Lugduni, 1840. 21. 14s.
— — Systema Piperacearum. 2 vol». 8vo. Rot
terdam, 1844. 1/. 2s.
MIRBEL (M.) Nouvelles recherches sur la struc
ture et les dévéloppements de l'ovule végétale.
In-4, with 10 plates. Paris, 1828. 6s.
MOHRENHEIM. Abhandlung iiber die Lutbin-
dungskunst, mit kupfern 46. Large folio. Leip
sig, 1803. 2/. 10s.
MONTE-BALDO. Descrltta da Giovanni Pona
Veronese, e due commenti, Marogna. 4to, plates.
Venetia, 1617. 4s. Gâ.
MORE AU. Icones Obstetricœ; a Series of 60
Plates, illustrative of the Art and Science of
Midwifery in all its Branches. Edited, with
Practical Remarks, by J. 8. Streeter.M.R.C.S.
Complete in 60 Plates, with Descriptions, in
cloth boards, folio. London, 1841. Plain, 31. 3s. ;
coloured, 6/. 6s.
. . (F. J.) Traité pratique des accouchemens.
2 vol. in-8, et atlas de 60 planches in-fol. Paris,
1838. 3/. Figs. col. 61. Gs.
—— Le texte séparément, 2 vol. in-8, 14s.
MORITZI. Die Flora der Schweiz mit Boson-
derer Berucksichtigung ihror Vertheilung nach
Ailgemein Physischen und Geologischen Mo-
menten. 12mo. Zurich, 1844. 10*. Gd.
MORREN. Recherches sur la Rubéfaction des
Eaux, et leur oxigéuation par les animalcules et
les algues. In-4, avec 7 pl. coloriées. 1841, 16s.
— Responsio ad quœstionem ab ordine dis-
ciplinarum Mathematicarum, &c. 4to. with
plates. 8*.
—— Recherches sur le mouvement et l'anatomie
de stylidium graminifolium. 4to. plates. Brux
elles, 1838. 3s.
MORRISON. On the Distinction between Crime
and Insanity; an Essay to which the Society for
improving the Condition of the Insane awarded
the Premium of Twenty Guineas. 8vo. Loudon,
1844. 2s.
MORTON. Crania Americana; or, a Compara
tive View of the Skulls of various Aboriginal
Nations of North and South America, to which
is prefixed an Essay on the Varieties of the Hu
man Species, illustrated by 78 plates, and a co
loured map. Folio. Philadelphia, 1839. Gl.
MOSSLER'S Handbuch der Gewachskunde. Dritte
auflage von H. G. L. Reichenrach. 3 vols. 8vo.
Altona, 1833. 11.4s.
MOXON (C.) An Introduction to Mineralogy ;
being the Natural System of Classification of
Mineral and Metallic Bodies. 8vo. London,
1843. 3s.
MUHLFELD. Bemerkungen Berlchtugungen und
Zusatze xu illlger's Zusatzen. 8vo. Leipsig,
1812. 2s. 6rf.
MULDER (C. J.) Uber den Werth und die Be*
dentung der Naturwissenchaften fiir die Medicin
aus dem Hollandischen von Moleschott. 8vo.
Heidelberg, 1844. Is.
MULLER. Animalcula Infusoria, Fluviatilia, et
Marina, qua: detexit, systematice descripsit, et
ad vivum delineari curavit. Opus hoc posthu-
mum, cura Far&icii. 4to. with 50 plates. Hau-
niii". 1786. 3/.
-(J.) Albanien, Rumelien, und die osterreisch-
montenegrimische Granze. 8vo. with a map.
Prague, 1844. 4s. 6rf.
Archiv fur Anatomie und Physiologie. 8vo.
mitKupf. 1834-41. 1/. 4s. each year.
—— Handbuch der Physiologie des Menschen,
2 vols. 8vo. Coblentz, 1838-40. 21.
Physiologie du Système Nerveux, ou re
cherches et expériences sur les diverses classes
d'appareils nerveux, les mouvemens, la voix, la
parole, les sens et les facultés intellectuelles.
Traduit de l'Allemand, par Jouhdan. 2 vols.
in-8, avec fig. Paris, 1841. 16s.
. Ban des Pentacrinus caput Medusa:. Folio,
with 6 plates. Berlin, 1843. 12s.
Ueber die Compensation der Physischen
Kriïfte am Menschlichen Stimmorgan, Bvo. with
b plates. Berlin, 1839, 4s.
14 H. Bmlîiere, 219 Regent Street
MULLER (J.) Ubef den Glatten Hai des Aris-
toteles unci iiben die Verschiedenheiten unter
don Haifischenund Rochen in der Entwirk-
lung des Eies. Folio, with 6 plates. Berlin,
1842. 8s.
—— Ueber dem feinern Bau und die formen
der Krankhaften Geschwulste. Folio, 4 Tafeln.
Berlin, 1838. 18*,
—- De glandularum secementiom structura pen-
itiori earumque prima Format ione in Homine at-
que Animalibus Commentatio Anatomica. Cum
Tabulis 16. Folio. Lipsiœ, 1830. 3/. 15s.
< und TROSCHEL. System der Asteriden.
4to. with 12 plates. Braunschweig, 1842.
U. 16s.
—— (O.) Vermium Terrestritun et Fluviatilium,
) seu Animalium, Infusorium, Helmintorum et
Testaceorum. 3 parts, 4to. Hauniœ, 1773. 12*.
. (O. F.) Hydrachnœ quas in Aquis Daniœ
Falustribus delexit et descripsit. 4to. with 11
plates. Leipsic, 1781. 10*.
. (Th.) Synopsis Testaceorum. 8vo. Berolini,
1835. 6s.
MULSANT. Histoire naturelle des coléoptères
de France. S vols. in-8. Paris, 1844. 1/. 12s.
MUNSTER. Verzeichniss der in der Kreis-na-
turalien Sammlung eu Bayreuth Befindlichen
Petrefacten. 4to. with 22 plates. Leipzig,
1840. 2/.
MYLII. Memorabilium Saxoniœ Subterranœ.
4to. with 74 plates of Fossils. Leipsig, 1709. 5s.
NACCARI (F. L.) Flora Veneta. 6 vols. 4to. Ve-
nezia, 1826. 21. 2s.
NEES ar ESENBECK. Sammlung schonblii-
bender gewiichse. Text 4to. and atlas folio, with
100 col. pl. Dusseldorf, 1831. 5/.
. Fraxinellœ, Plantarum Familia Naturalis.
With 11 folia plates. 5s.
Goethea Novum Plantarum Genus. 4to. with
3 folio plates. 2s. Qd.
—- DePolyporoPisacapanl. 4to.withfol.pl. 2s. Gd.
—— Spiridens Movum Muscorum Diploperisto-
miorum Genus. 4to. with a coloured plate. ls.Gd.
— Fungi Javanicl. 4to. with a col. pl. 3s.
—— BesehriebungOfficinellerPfianzen, texte seul.
1 vol. folio. Dusseldorf, 1829. 1/. 1s.
De Cinnamomo Disputatio, cum 7 tabulis ico-
nographicis. 4to. Bonn, 1823. 6*.
—
— Genera Plantarum Flora Germanicœ. 22 liv
raisons, 8vo. containing 20 plates each, price per
livraison, 4s. Bonn, 1838-43.
Genera et Species Asterearum. 8vo. Vra-
tislaviœ, 1832. 7*. Gd.
— Sammlung officineller pflanzen. 2 vols. ufol.
contenant 528 planches coloriées, and 1 vol. ufol.
de Texte. Dusseldorf, 1821-32. 15/. 15s.
und WEIHE. Rubi Germanicl. Folio, mit
52 planches. Elberfield, 1822-27. 41.
NAGELII. Zeitschiïft fur Wissenschaftliche Bo-
tanik. With 3 plates. Zurich, 1844. 7s.
NELATON. Elémens de pathologie chirurgicale.
Tome première. In-8. Paris, 1844. 8*.
NEUMANN C. G.) Pathologische untersuch als
Regulative des heilverfahrens. 2 vol. 8vo. Ber
lin, 1841. 8*.
NICOLA1. Handbuch der gerichtlichen Medicin
nach dem gegenwartigen Standpunkte dieser
Wissenschaftfiir AerzteundCriminalisteh. 8vo.
Berlin, 1841. 9s.
NOZEMAN und SEPP. Nederlandische Vogelen,
Volgens hunne huishounding, aert. en Eigens-
chappen Beschreeven. 5 vols, grand fol. avec
250 planches coloriées. Amsterdam, 1770-1829.
31/. 10*,
OBSERVATIONS sur l'histoire naturelle, sur la
physique, et sur la peinture, avec des planches
imprimées en couleur. 2 vol. in-4. Paris,
1752. 1/.
ŒDER et MULLER. Flora Danica. 7 vols. fol.
coloured plates. Kopenhagen, 1766-92. 20/.
OKEN. Isis, Encyclopadische Zeitschrift vorziig-
llch fur Naturgcschichte, vergleichenden Ana-
tomie und Physiologie. 30 vols, 4to, Leipzig,
1817-38. 38/.
OTTO et PFEIFFER. Figures et Descriptions des
Cactées en Fleur. 5 livr. avec 70 planches, Ho.
col. Cassel, 1841-42. 1/.
OWEN (R.) Odontography ; or a treatise on the
comparative Anatomy of the Teeth, their phy
siological relations, mode of developement, and
Microscopic Structure in Vertebrate Animals.
This splendid Work will be published in Three
Parts, each Part containing 50 Plates, with their
Description. When complete, it will form 1 vol.
of Letterpress, and an Atlas, royal 8vo. of 150
Plates, engraved by Mr. L. Aldous and Mr.
Dinkel. Parts I. and II. royal 8vo. 100 highly
engraved plates, with text, 1/. lis. 6if. each.
A few Copies are printed in 4to. and the Plates
Proofs on India Paper. 21. 12s. Gd. each part.
The Third and Last Part will be published in
January 1845.
PALISOT (de Beauvois). Essai d'une nouvelle
agrostographie. 4to. avec 25 planches. Paris,
1812. 1/. 5s.
PALLAS. Miscellanea Zoologica. In-4, avec 14
pl. demie relié. Lugduni Batavorum, 1778. 1/.
Characteristik die Thierpflanzen. Aus dem
Latein, iibersetzt und mit Anmerkungen ver-
sehen von Christ. Friedr. Wo-kens, und nach
seinem Tode herausg. von J. F. W. Herest.
4to. Nurnberg, 1787. 18*.
PALSTERCAMP (A). Théorie des Volcans.
3 vol. in-8, et atlas fol. Paris, 1835. 21.
PANCOVII Herbarium portatile. 4to. avec 1362
gravures sur bois. Berlin, 1654. 4s.
PANDER. Entwickelungsgeschicbte des Hiihn-
chens im Eye. Fol. plates. Wiirzburg, 1817.
1/. 15s.
Historium metamorphoses quam ovum incu-
batum. 8vo. Worceburgi, 1817. 2s. XSd.
PANIZZA (B.) Annotazioni Chirurgiche sulla
Glandola parotide. 4to. with 2 plates. Milano,
1843. 4s.
PANZER. Fauns, Insectorum, 1-140 fasc. illuni.
18mo. Nurnberg, 1792-1838. 20/.
PARE (Amrroise). Œuvres complètes, revues et
collationnées sur toutes les éditions, avec les
variantes ; ornées de 217 planches et du portrait
de l'auteur, accompagnées de notes historiques et
critiques, et précédées d'une Introduction sur
l'origin et les progrès de la chirurgie en Occident
du VI.-XVI. siècle et sur la vie et les ouvrages
d'Ambroise Paré, par J. F. Maloaigne, chirur
gien de l'hospice de Bicètre, professeur agrégé à
la Faculté de Paris, &c. 3 vol. grand in-8 à deux
colonnes, avec un grand nombre de figures inter
calées dans le texte. Paris, 16il . 1/. 16s.
PARENT-DUCHATELET. De la Prostitution
dans la ville de Paris, considérée sous les rap
ports de l'hygiène publique, de la morale et de
l'administration, ouvrage appuyé de documens
statistiques puisés dans les Archives de la Pré
fecture de Police, avec cartes et tableaux. Se
conde édition revue et corrigée, ornée du por
trait de l'auteur gravé. 2 forts vol. in-8. Paris,
1837. 16*.
Hygiène publique, ou Mémoire sur les ques
tions les plus importantes de l'hygiène appliquée
aux professions et aux travaux d'utilité publique.
2 forts vol. in-8, avec 18 pl. Paris, 1836. 16s.
PASSOT. Barème du vendeur et de l'acheteur
en poids décimaux et mesures métriques. 4to.
Paris, 1840. 4s. M.
PAYEN. Mémoires sur les développements des
végétaux. 4to. avec 16 planches. Paris, 1844.
1/. 4s.
PAYKULL. Fauna Suecica Insect a. 3 vols. 8vo.
Upsaliœ, 1800. 1/. 4s.
PELLETIER. A fine Portrait of. Folio. 3s. Grf.
PERSOON. Icones Pictœ Rariorum Fungorum.
4to. with 18 coloured plates. Paris, 1805. 1/. 5*.
—— Synopsis Plantarum, seu Enchiridium Bo-
tanicum. 2 vols. 12mo. Parlsiis, 1807. 18*. 6rf.
Mycologia Europeea. 3 vols, in-8, avec col.
pl. Erlangîe, 1828. 21. 10*.
—
— Icones et Descriptiones Fungorum minus cog*
nitorum. 4to. avec 14 planches coloriées. Leip
sig, no date. 15s,
New Foreign Medical and Scientific Works. 15
PETTER. BotanischerWegweiserin der gegeml
von spalato. 18mo. Zarœ, 1832. 3,v.
PHARMACEUTISCHES Central-Blatt fur 1830,
32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40. In cloth boards.
Leipzig. Each year, 15s.
PHARMACOPEE FRANÇAISE, ou code des
médicamens; ou nouvelle traduction du codex
medicamentarius, sive pharmacopoea Gallica,
par F. S. R Atiea, augmentée de notes et un ap
pendice, contenant la formule et la mode de pré
paration des nouveaux médicamens, dont la pra
tique s'est enrichie jusqu'à nos jours, par O.
Henry. 1 vol. in-8. Paris, 1827. 8*.
PHILIPP. Zur Diagnostik der Lungen und herz-
krankheiten PhysicalischenZeichender Auscul
tation und Percussion. Mu. fig. Berlin, 1836. 6*.
PIIILIPPI Enumeratlo Molluscorum Siciliœ. 12
planches. 4to. Berolini, 1836. \1. 8*.
Vol. II. 4to. plates. Halle, 1844. 1/. 12*.
PICOT (de la Peirouse). Description de
plusieurs nouvelles espèces d'orthocératites et
d'ostracites, avec 13 planches. Folio. Erlang,
1781. M. 8*.
Figures de la Flore des Pyrénées avec les
Descriptions. Folio, avec 11 planches coloriées.
Paris, 1795. 10*.
PIDDINGTON. An English Index to the Plants
of India, «vu. Calcutta, 1832. 4s. Gd.
FIERER. Universal Lexicon oder Encyclopa-
dische Worterbuch. 26 vols. 8vo. half-bound.
Altenburg, 1838-36. 91.
PINEL. Traité de Pathologie du Cerveau. 8vo.
Paris, 1844. 7s.
P1TARO. La Science de la Sétifère, ou l'art de
_ produire la soie avec avantage et sûreté, avec 7
planches. 8vo. Paris, 1*28. 7s.
PLUMIER. Descriptions des plantes de l'Amé
rique, avec 108 planches fol. Paris. 1/. 10*.
POHL. Tentamen florœ Bohemue. 2 vols. 8vo.
in 1. Prague, 1810-1815. 8*.
POILROUX. Médecine Légale criminelle Ma
nuel à l'usage des médecins de toutes les classes
des étudiens en médecine et des magistrats. 8vo.
Paris, 1837. 7s.
POIRET (l'Abbé). Voyage en Barbarie, ou let
tres écrites de l'ancienne Numidie en 1785 et
1786. 2 vol. in-8. Paris, 1789. 6*.
POISSON. A fine Portrait of. Folio. 5s.
FOLAN8KY (E.) Grundrisz zu einer Lehre
von den Ohren-Krankheiten. 8vo. Wien, 1842.
4s.
POLLICH. Historia Plantarum in Palatinat-
Electorali, sponte Nascentium incepta. 3 vols.
8vo. Mannhemii, 1777. 12*. Gd.
POPPE. Ausfuhrliche Volks-Gewerlslehre oder
Allgemeine und befondere Technologie. Bvo.
Stuttg. 15s.
POUILLET. Elémens de physiques expériment
ale et de météorologie. Quatrième édition. 2
vol. in-8. Pari*, 1845. 18*.
PREISS. Enumeratio Plantarum quas in Aus
tralasia Occidentali et Meridionali- occidental,
annis 1838-41. 8vo. Hamburgl. 8*.
(B.) Die neuere Physiologie in ihrem Ein-
tiusse auf die niihere Kcnntniss des Pfortader-
systems in gesunden und kranken Fustande.
8vo. Breslau 1844. s4.
PR1CHARD. The Natural History of Man; com
prising Inquiries into the Modifying Influences
of Physical and Moral Agencies on the different
Tribes of the Human Family. Illustrated with
44 coloured and 5 plain plates, engraved on steel,
and 97 woodcuts. 1 vol. royal 8vo. elegantly
bound in cloth. London, 1845. 1/. 13s. Gd. Se-
cond edition, enlarged.
Appendix to the First Edition of the Natural
History of Man. Consisting of 4 sheets of text,
and 6 coloured plates. 8vo. London, 1845,
3s. Gd.
Researches into the Physical History of
Mankind. Third Edition. 4 vol. 8vo. London,
1811-44, 3/. 4s.
— Illustrations to tho Researches into the Physi
cal History of Mankind. Atlas t{/'44coloured and
5 plain plates engraved on steel, 1 vol. 8vo.
London, 1844. 18*.
PRICHARD. Six Ethnographical Maps, largo
folio, coloured, with a sheet of letterpress, in
illustration and as a complement of his works,
" The Natural History of Man," and " Researches
into the Physical History of Mankind." London,
1845. U. Is. In cloth boards, 1/. 4s.
—
— On the Different Forms of Insanity, in re
lation to Jurisprudence. Dedicated, by permis
sion, to the Right Honourable Lor» Ltndhurst,
Chancellor of England. In 1 vol. post 8vo.
London, 1842. 5s.
PRONY (M. de). Leçons de Mécanique Analy
tique, données à l'école impériale polytechnique.
2 vols. 4to. Paris, 1810.
PURKINJE (A. Y.) De cellulis antherarum fi
brosis nec non De Granorum Pollinarum formls
Commentatio Phytotomica. 4to. with 18 plates.
Vratislaviœ, 1830. 12*.
QUETELET sur l'homme et le dévéloppement de
ses facultés, ou essai de phvsique sociale. 2 vol.
in-12. Bruxelles, 1836, 7s.
RABENHORST. Deutschlands Kryptogamen-
Flora oder Handbuch zur Bestimmung der
Kryptogamischen Gewachse- Deutschlands der
Schweiz, des Lombardisch-Benetianischen Ko-
nigreichs und Istreins. Vol. I. 8vo. Leipzig,
1844. 14s.
RACIBORSKI (M. A.) De la Puberté et de
l'âge critique chez la femme. In-12. Paris,
1844. 6*.
RA1MANN, Handbuch der Speciellen Médicm-
ischeundThéropie. 2vol.in-8. Wien,1839. 1/.4*.
RAMON (De la Sagra.) Histoire physique, poli ;
tique, et naturelle, de l'Ile de Cuba. 51 livrai
sons, fol. coloured plates. Paris, 1840-44. Price
of each part, 12*. Gd.
RASPAIL (F. V.) Histoire naturelle de la santé
et de la maladie chez les végétaux et chez les
animaux en générale, et en particulier chez
l'homme. 2 vol. in-8, avec planches. Paris,
1843. 1/. 4*.
Nouveau système de chimie organique,
fondé sur de nouvelles méthodes d'observations,
précédé d'un traité complet sur l'art d'observer
et do manipuler en grand et en petit dans le
laboratoire et sur le port-objet du microscrope.
Deuxième édition, entièrement refondue, accom
pagné d'un atlas in-4 de 20 planches de figures
dessinées d'après nature, gravées at coloriées avec
le plus grand soin. 3 vol. in-8, atlas in-4. Paris,
1838. 1/. 10*.
-Nouveau système de physiologie végétale et
de botanique. 2 vol. in-8, et atlas de planches.
Paris, 1837. 1/. 10s. Col. 21. 10*.
RATIER. Pharmacopée Française, ou code des
médicamens, nouvelle traduction de Codex Me
dicamentarius, sive Pharmacopoeia Gallica. In-8.
Paris, 1827. 8*.
Lettre sur la Syphilis. In-8. Paris, 1844.
Is. Gd.
RATZEBURG (J. T. C.) Die Forst-Insecten.
3 vols. 4to. with 37 plates. Berlin, 1837. 3/. 3s.
—— Entomologische Beitrage. 4to. 5s.
Animadversioncs quœdain ad peloiarum in-
dolem definiendamspectantes. 4to. with a plate.
Berolinl. 3s.
RAU. Die Entzundung der Regenbogcnhaut. 8vo.
Bern-und-St. Gullen, 1844. 6*.
RAYER. A Theoretical and Practical Treatise
on the Diseases of the Skin. Translated by R.
Willis, M.D. Second edition, remodelled and
enlarged, in 1 thick vol. 8vo. of 1300 pages, with
atlas royal 4to. of 26 plates, finely engraved and
coloured with the greatest care, exhibiting 400
Varieties of Cutaneous Affections. 41. 8*. Lon
don, 1835. The Text separately, 8vo. in boards,
1/. 8*. The Atlas 4to. separately, in boards,
U. 10*.
See Willis.
•Traité des maladies des reins et des altérations
de le sécrétion urinaire, étudiés en elles-mêmes
et dans leurs rapports ; avec les maladies des
urétères, de la vessie, et la prostate, de l'urètre,
&c, 3 forts vol. in-8, Paris, 1839-41. 11.4*.
16 II. Baittih-e, 219 Regent Street
E AYER (P.) Traite theorique et pratique des ma
ladies de La peau. Deuxi&me édition, ontiére-
ment refondue. 3 forts vol. in-8, accompagnes
d'un bel atlas de 36 planches, in grand-4,gravées
et coloriées avec les plus grand soin, representant
en 400 figures les differentes maladies de la peau
et leurs varietes. Paris, 1835. Prix de texte
seul, \L 3*.
Prix de l'ouvrage complet, 3 vol. in-8 et atlas
in-4 cart, 4/. 8*.
Prix de l'atlas seul, avec explication raisonnee,
grand in-4 cart, 3/. 10*.
Le bel atlas pour cet ouvrage, representant les
diverses alterations mor bides des reins, de la
vessie, de la prostate, des ureteres, de l'uretre, a
etépubliéen 12 livraisons contenant chacune 5
planches grand in-folio, gravees et magnifique-
ment coloriées d'apres nature, avec un texte de-
scriptif. Ce bel ouvrage, compose de 60 planches
grand in-folio, estcomplet. Paris, 1841. 9/. 12*.
RECEUIL de medecine veterinaire. Premiere an-
nee. Tome I. in-8. Paris, 1824. 12*.
REGENFUSS (P. M.) Auserlesene Schneiken-
muscheln und andere Schaalthiere. Folio, with
12 col. pl. Kopenhagen, 1758. G1.6s.
REICHENBACH. Flora Germanica. 8 vols.
18mo. Lipsiffi, 1830. 1/.
. Allgemeine Pflanzenkunde. 4to. with 8 co
loured plates. Leipzig, 1838. 6*.
. Handbuch des Natiirlichcn Pflanzensystems,
nach alien feinen Classen, Ordnungen und Fa-
milien. 8vo. Dresden, 1837. U.
. Flora Lipsiensis Pharmaceutics: Specimen.
Lipsiœ. 2*.
-—. Die Tand Sufswasserund see Conchillen, mit
68 tafmehr, 800 abbeldungen enthaltend. Royal
8vo. half-boards. Leipzig, 1842. 1/. 16*.
REICHOLDT u. REIDER. Die Pharmaceutische
Waarenkunde und,Waarenbereitung. 8vo. Leip
zig, 1844. 6*.
REIL. Archiv fiir die Physiologic 12 vols.
bound. Halle, 1795-1815. 5/.
REQJJIN. Elemens de pathologie medicale. Vol.
I. in-8. Paris, 1843. 7*.
RETZII Observationes Botanica sex fasciculis
comprehensaa. Cum 19 pl. fol. col. Lipsiss,
1791. 1/.
REUSS (A. E.) Geognotische Skizzen aus Boh-
men. 2 vols. 8vo. with plates. Prague, 1844.
12*.
RH^DE et CASEARIUM. Hortus Indicus Ma-
labaricus continens Regni Malabarici apud Indos
Celeberrimi omnis Generis Plantas rariores. 2
vols, folio, with numerous plates. Amsterdam,
1668. 15s.
RICARD (J. J. A.) Physiologie et hygiene du
magnétiseur ; regime diététique du magnétise,
&c. In-12. Paris, 1844. 3*. 6rf.
RICHARDSON (G. F.) Geology for Beginners,
comprising a Familiar Exposition of the Ele
ments of Geology and its Associate Sciences,
Mineralogy, Fossil Conchology, Fossil Botany,
and Pala:ontology. 1 vol. post 8vo. illustrated
by 251 Woodcuts. Second edition. 1843. 10*.Gd.
RICHTERN. Saxonije Electoralis Miraculosa
Terra. 4to. 61 plates. 1732. 5s.
RICORD (Ph.) Traite pratique des maladies
veneriennes, ou recherches critiques et experi-
mentales sur l'inoculation appliquee a l'etude de
ces maladies, suivies d'un resume therapeutique
et d'un formulaire special. In-8. Paris, 1838. 9*.
——• Atlas des maladies veneriennes. 7 livraisons,
4to. chaque contenant 4 planches coloriées. 21.2*.
L'ouvrage sera complet en 20 livraisons,
R1DINGER. A Collection of 38 splendid En
gravings of Animals, Mammalia. Folio. 19*.
Of Birds. 4 plates, folio. 3*.
RIEM. Oekonomisch-VeterinarischesUnterricht
liber die Zucht, Wartung und Stallung der
Pferde. 7 parts, 4to. with plates, bound in 1 vol.
Leipzig, 1799-1802. U. 15s.
RILLIET et BARTHEZ. Traite clinique et
pratique des maladies des enfans. 3 vol. in-8.
Paris, 1843. U. 1*.
ROEHMANN(L.) Handbuch der Topographisehen
Anatomie. l2mo, Leipzig, 1844. 16*.
RIECKE (V. A.) Die Neuern Arzneimittel Ihre
physischen und chemischen Eigenschaften Be-
reitungsweisen, Wirkungen auf den Gesunden
und Kxanken Organismus und Therapeutische
Benutzung. 8vo. Stuttgart, 1840. 12*. Second
edition.
ROCHE, SANSON, et LENOIR. Nouveaux éle
mens de pathologie médico - chirurgicale, ou
traits theorique et pratique de médecine et de
chirurgie. Q,uatri6me edition considerablemeut
augmentée. 0 forts vol. in-8. Paris, 1844.
1/. 16*.
ROEDERER. Elémens de l'Art des Accouche-
mens, augmentés des observations but les ac-
couchemens laborieux, aveo figures. 8vo. Paris,
1765. 5s.
ROGNETTA. Traite philosophique et clinique
d' Ophthalmologic, base sur les principes de la
Therapeutique Dynamique. 6vo. Paris, 1844.
0*.
ROODS (H. C.) Spinal Affections. A popular
Lecture on Disorders and Diseases of the Spine,
in which the Causes, Nature, Symptoms, and
Curative Treatment of these Affections, are in
vestigated and explained. 12mo. with 2 woodcuts.
London, 1841. 2*.
ROSE. Traite pratique d'analyse chimique, suivie
de tables servant dans les analyses a*calculer a"la
quantité d une substance d'après celle qui a etc
trouvee dans une autre substance ; trad, de 1'Al-
lcm and sur la quatriSme édition, par A. J. L.
Jourdan. Nouvelle edition avec des additions,
par Peligot. 2 vol. in-8, fig. Paris, 1843.
16*.
ROSENBAUM. Zur Geschichteund Kritik der
Lehre vonden Hautkrankheiten. 8vo. Halle,
1844. 4*.
ROSER (W.) Handbuch der anatomischen Chi
rurgie. 8vo. Tubingen, 1844. 12*.
ROSES (les), Palntes par P. J. Redoute, decrites
et classees selon leur ordre naturel par C. A.
Thory. Troisieme edition. 3 vols. gr. in-8, avec
fig. col. Paris, 1828. 10/.
ROTH. Novœ Plantarum species prasertin In
dia}Orientalis, ex collectione Doct. BenJ. Hetkii.
8vo. Halber-stadii, 1821. 5s.
ROTHH (A. G.) Catalecta Botanica, quibus
plant® nova; et minus cognita: describuntur et
illustrantur. 3 vols. 8vo, Mit ilium, tafeln.
Leipzig, 1806. 1/.
ROTTBOLL. Descriptionum et Iconum rariores
et pro maxima parte. Novas plantas illustrat.
Fol. avec 21 planches. Hafhia:, 1773. 15s.
ROYEN. Flora Leydensis, prodromus exhibens
plantas quœ in Horto Academico Lugduno-Ba-
tavo abundantur. Bvo. 1740. 3*. 6d.
RUDOLPHI Entoozorum Synopsis. Cum 3
Tabulis. 8vo. Berlin, 1819. U.
. Entozoorum sive vermium intestinalium.
3 vols. 8vo. Amsterdam, 1808. 1/. 15s.
—— Dissertatio anatomica de oculi quibusdam
partibus. 4to. Gryphiœ. 3*.
• Grundriss der Physiologie. 2 vols, in 1, 8vo.
bd. Berlin, 1821. 15s.
RUNGE. Einleitung in die Technische Chimio
fiir Jederman. Mit 150 in text Befundlichen
Tafeln. 8vo. BerUn, 1836. 18*.
RUPPEL (E. Da.) Atlas zu der Reise in Nord-
lichen Afrika. Vol. I. containing 120 plates,
coloured and plain, folio. Vol. II. Neue Wirbel-
thiere zu der Fauna von Abyssinien gehorig,
containing 94 plates, coloured and plain, folio.
Franckfurt, 1826-40. 21/.
RUST. Helkologie, oder Lehre von den Gesch-
waren. 4to. mit 12 ilium. Kupf. Berlin, Is i>.
3l.
(Dr. C.) De ulcerum diagnosi et aetiologia
Nonnulla. 4to. with 7 plates coloured, in folio.
Bertolini, 1831. 8*.
RYAN (M.) The Philosophy of Marriage, in its
Social, Moral, and Physical Relations ; with an
Account of the Diseases of the Genito-Urinary
Organs, with the physiology of Generation in
the Vegetable and Animal Kingdoms. Fourth
edition, very much improved. 1 vol. l2mo.
London, 1843. C*.
^
