{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1847__brittan___universalism_as_an_idea.pdf","mytitle":"Universalism As An Idea","mylang":"de"}
AN
ILLUSTRATION AN
D DEFENSE
OF
UNIVERSALIS~f AS AN IDEA,
l :i
A SERIES
OH
PHILOSOPHICAL AND SCRIPTURAL DISCOURSES.
BY
./
S. B. BRITTAN.
Produce your cause, saith the Lord ; brillg forth
your strong reasons, saith the King of Jacob.
. l s AIAH XLI. 21.
ALBANY.
PRINTED BY C. KILLl\IER.
1847.
Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1817,
BY S. B. BRITTAN,
In the Office of the Clerk of the District Court of the Northern District of
New-York.
THIS VOLUME
IS
AFFECTIONATELY DEDICATED
GEORGE E. \V ARRING, EsQ .
STAl\IFORD, CONN.,
AS
. A. TOKEN OF RESPECT AND ESTEEM,
BY
THE AUTHOR.
1
CONTENTS .
-w~~
I. INTRODUCTORY DISCOURSE, •.•.• •• ••.• •.• • 1
II. THE DIVINE ATTRIBUTES, •••••. . • ••• • • 15
III. THE WoRKS OF NATURE, ••••••.•• ••• • 31
IV. THE PHILOSOPHY OF Goon AND EvIL, .. . 51
v. THE CONSTITUTION OF MAN, •••••••• •• 65
VI. THE DIVINE PATERNITY,.•.• •••••••••• 83
VII. THE MISSION OF CHRIST, ••.•.• ••••••••• 99
VIII. SCRIPTURE EVIDENCES, ••.• •••••••••••• 115
IX. SCRIPTURE EVIDENCES, ••••••••••••••• 131
x. SCRIPTURE EVIDENCES, ••••••••••••••• 147
XI. THE PHILOSOPHY oF PuNISHl\IENT, ..... 159
XII. CONCLUDING DISCOURSE, •••••••••••••• 175
PREFACE.
Tins w-0rk is not devoted to a: discussion of the
several p,oints of doctrine held by Universalists; but
is designed to elucidate the ONE GREAT IDEA-that
which comprehends the . immortal destiny of the.
human spirit. Compared with th:is subject, all others
are unimportant in their bearing upon the interest and
happiness of man. o,ving to the wide diversity in
the mental and.moral constitution of men it becomes
necessary to reason from diffetent premises,, that the
propriety of the general conclusion may be apparent
to every mind. The Author has, therefore, dra\vn .
his illustrations and arguments from Nature and the .
constitution of things, as well as from the Scriptures ;.
believing this to be the only sure way to commend
the truth to every man's conscience.
These Discourses were prepared for the pulpit..
They are respectfully presented to the public in this
form, at the earnest solicitation of many who listened
to them as they were orginally delivered. The writer
ventures to indulge the hope that this humble effort
may subserve the {nterests of the Truth it is intended
to illustrate and enforce.
ALBA:-iY1 May 18, 1847.
DISCOURSE I.
INTRODUCTORY.
Come, now, and let us reason together.-IsAIAH I. 18.
REASON is the highest faculty of the mind. It is
that especially which distinguishes humanity from the ·
inferior creation. And yet men in their ignorance
labor to prevent its perfect development and appro-
priate exercise. l\:Iany yield to the influence of passion
and prejudice, and become the ministers of desolation
to themselves, kindling whitin, a strange fire, to scathe
that \vhich is most beautiful, and to blight and consume.
the blossoms of the Spirit.
In the \vide field of physical science, man has been
comparatively free. He has reared monuments of
truth and \visdom that will stand forever, bearing
witness to the distant ages, of his progress and his
power. But men too often enter the department of
revealed truth, with doubt and irresolution. Here,
many imagine that they are on forbidden ground, and
every step is with fear and trembling. So long have
men been taught to believe that the exercise of hu-
man reason is incompatible with the interests of
religion, and dangerous to the soul, that they dare
not prosecute their inquiries on rational grounds. In
2
2 INTRODUCTORY
their judgment, it is safe to remain where they are-
to live on in ignorance of what God has revealed, and
to wonder at His ways, which are past finding out.
\Vith all the eYidences of progress in man and the
world around, they dare not venture beyond the
circumscribed sphere of present acquirements. What-
ever is without the limits already defined, is treated
with as much caution and reserve, as though it were
a magazine of curses, containing the elements of the
soul's destruction. I know that some will move 'vhen
truth finds an utterance from mortal lips; others wait
for an angel to
" stir their stagnant souls."
Those who have been the first to submit to the
authority of tradition, and the last to relinquish
their confidence in the absurd and improbable
speculations of Yisionary minds, have been most
alarmed for the safety of the bold free spirit that
dared to scan the Creator's works, and the record of
His word. Some men impose a most effectual restraint
upon their reason, while they leaYe the imagination
to wander uncontrolled in the regions of conjecture.
The religion of such persons is a species of fanaticism
that serves to obscure the interior vision, and to pre-
vent an accurate perception of things. Under this
influence, they readily believe the wildest chimeras
of heathen poets, while they reject the sublime results
of reason and analogy.
If we look at the theology of the church, we shall
hardly foil to observe the traces of a corrupt and
DISCOURSE. 3
speculative philosophy-of dark mysteries and un-
founded superstitions, long blended with the precepts
of heavenly wisdom. The increasing light and
knowledge of our time is rapidly disclosing these
errors to the 'vorld. A veil that has long covered a
multitude of sins is torn away. Many of the church
dogmas are found to be mere phantoms. One after
another, like shells, they explode, and the people are
alarmed when the danger is past. Men cling to their
errors with a firmness and resolution only equalled by
the force of their early prepossessions. Still, it must
be acknowledged there are many indications of reform.
It is true that men are beginning to entertain a higher
regard for whatever is consistent and reasonable, even
in religion. There are some intrepid spirits who will
no more be driven from this field of inquiry. They
will venture to examine the doctrinal superstructure
of the church, and if it consist of " wood, hay and
stubble," it will be given to the flames, and consumed
with the multitude of human de,yices. 'Vhat though
the whole be cast into the fire ? The truth has no-
thing to fear. Christianity has nothing to lose. Like
the fine gold, it \\·ill only shine \Yith a purer lustre,
when separated from the commingling elements of
ignorance and superstition. "\Ve regard it as a part
of our mission on earth, to assist in removing these
errors and corruptions. The truth long buried beneath
the superincumbent mass, must be exhumed. "\Ve
must seek for it as for a hidden treasure. W'"e desirP
4 INTRODUCTORY
to follow Truth, though it lead amidst cloud and flame,
or through the unyielding earth. This shall be the
object of our pursuit, for the experience of every day
eYinces that nothing but truth can pass the ordeal
which is to try every man's work.
There is a power employed that is rapidly changing
the faith of the church, and the opinions of the world.
vVe live at a period in \vhich the mere dictum of ar·
bitrary men is not mistaken for the oracle of God.
The ipse dz'xit of the priest, is not the foundation of
faith. Evidence is necessary to produce conviction, and
nothing short of this will command our assent.
There are many Christians who are disposed to sub-
ject the doctrines of the church to the test of a rigid
examination. He reasons falsely \Yho is led to suppose
that this characteristic of the age indicates a grow-
ing spirit of irreligion : on the contrary, I regard it
as the surest evidence that man is beginning to feel a
deep and abiding concern in the investigation of re-
vealed truth.
I have observed that there are1 in the doctrines of
the church, evident traces of the Pa2."::tn Theology. The
heathen believed in a vast num
1
~ ~ r of Deities, who
were armed \vith the elements, and prepared for the
work of destruction. He saw their angry frowns in
the darkened sky, and heard their voices in the deep
thunders, and the raging floods ! These he worshipped
in order to appease their wrath, and to conciliate their
favor. Thus far there is one particular, that may
serYe to distinguish the Pagan from the Christian.
DISCOURSE. 5
The latter worships but one God, but that one he has
made, infinitely more terrible, than all that 1vere
dreamed of in the Pagan Philosophy.
As to the nature and object of religious 1vorship
among Christians, it is not unfrequently the same as
in pagan lands. l\Iuch of it is propitiatory. The
Christian is too often influenced by the same motives
that actuate the heathen in their devotions. It is
their chief design to pacify the supposed wrath of
their capricious diYinities-they 1;rnuld make the gods
more compassionate. These ideas are none the less
Pagan in their origin, because they have been bap-
tized in the name of Christ.
· The heathen had also his tartarean gulf, correspond-
ing to the hell of modern Christians. There may be
this essential difference behveen them :-.Possibly the
horrors of the Christian hell exceed the conceptions
of the most benighted heathen. I hav-e no disposition
to speak of the results contemplated by the system of
partial theology- the picture would shock the virtuous
sensibilities. Great abominations have been cherished
and defended, under the insulted name of Christianity.
l\Iany pretended followers of Christ have been igno-
rant of the Father. They have worshipped the tyrant
-a being begotten of their follies and their fears ; and
as destitute of compassion, as the stone at 'vhich the
heathen bows. These are some of the ideas of the
Church. That they were conceived m ignorance,
brought forth in iniquity,. and nursed in the. lap of
2B
6 INTRODUCTORY
the dark ages, is no'v a matter of history. A formal
refutation of these gross absurdities \Vould do violence
to our ideas of propriety, and be a poor compliment
to your intelligence. That they are the monstrous
offspring of the human mind in its far distant wander-
ings from God and heavenly things, must be evident
to the rational mind.
Let no one imagine, that in the present course of
Lectures, we design to carry on a dlrect warfare
against existing modes of faith. 'Ve have a higher
object and aim; the illustration and defence of our
own. But it was necessary to glance at some speci-
mens of the so-called Evangelical ideas and doctrines,
in order to direct your attention to their influence and
results as developed in the condition of society.
'Vhat, thenr has the popular theology accomplished in
t~ie great \York of removing the existing evils ? 'Vhat
have all the old theories in morals and religion done
to refine the nature and improve the condition of man?
Have they been instrumental in working out a higher
destiny for the race, or is the world become more
debased in morals,. and in the circumstances of its
social condition, with each succeeding generation?
It is our privilege to press this question. If you had
a friend sick, you would have an undoubted right, not
only to inquire into the nature of the remedial agents
employed in his case, but also to witness their opera-
tion. If he continued to gw'rv worse, or the disease
to assume a more aggravated form; or if he failed to
DISCOURSE. 7
recover under the peculiar mode of treatment ad'opted,
you would naturally conclude that the physician did
not understand his case, or that his prescriptions were
not adapted to the condition and wants of the patient.
In such a case, you \vould most certainly resort to
other remedies. But this mode of illustration will
equally well apply to universal humanity. That there
is derangement and disease in the great body will not
be questioned. But that there is any proper adapta-
tion of the treatment to the nature of the case, is not
sufficiently evident.... If the world is possessed of an
evil spirit, will you·send forth legions of like spirits
to cast him out ? If the involuntary motion of the
great system is irregular-if the lvhole body is fear--
fully convulsed-is it likely that any galvanic process,.
such as the ordinary religious excitements, will restore
a proper action 1 If some of the members are greatly
inflamed, will you expose them. to the action of fire
to reduce the inflammation ? If the patient exhibit
symptoms of madness, \Vill you pursuade him out of
his reason ? I know that this is the characteristic
treatment of the Church, and thus its doctors have
tried for ages to cure the wmld ; and what is the
result? Is there any improvement? Is the system
generally in a better condition? Why, those who
feel the patient's pulse, affirm that there is but little
hope-that the world is waxing worse continually..
Many think that the one true faith is in danger from
the influence of a vain philosophy, that is closely allied
8 INTRODUCTORY
to infidelity. Indeed, if the world be half as vile as
some would haYe us believe, surely the poet hath
described it well:
" Good men are here and there, I know; but then-
* * * * • •
* * * * --the world,
Like a black block of marble, jagged with white,
As with a vein of lightning petrified,
Looks blacker than without such"--
But we are not without faith in man. "'\Ve are not
prepared to relinquish our confidence in God. \Ve
believe that the ·world is advancing-that the general
tendency of things is upward. In our judgment, the
past history and present condition of society indicate,
at least, a gradual improvement. vVhether this is to be
placed to the credit of popular theological influences,
or whether it is the result of other causes, we shall
not stop to inquire. But if it be true, that the present
tendency is dowmYard-that the general movement is
retrogressive, we desire to know who is to be held
accountable for the results. How can the advacates
of the received theology escape from this responsibility?
They have had every opportunity to direct the course
of the world, and to remove the existing causes of
evil. They have opened the channel in which the
current of human affairs is rolling on from age to
age ; they have explained the duty of man, and
determined his destiny; they have fixed the standard
of faith, and defined the limits, beyond which there
is no hope. Around the domestic fireside, and in the
schools, where the young mind receives its first and
DISCOURSE. 9
most enduring impressions- in religion and morals-
in all the departments of business- indeed, in eYery
field of thought and action, they have wielded a
controlling power. For centuries they have guided the
church and state. The voice from the altar has found
a responce in the hearts of millions, while the influ-
ence that has gone out from the throne has been felt
by the remotest subject of the empire. In their hands
is lodged the power which has ruled the world.
Their authority is so extensive-so generally acknow-
ledged, even now, that truth itself, \vill only pass
current when under seal of the Church; and virtue
to practice on her own account, must have a license.
In this country, they have had a period of t\vo
hundred years, to make an experiment in morals.
T hey have framed the institutions, and formed the
character of a great nation- they have occupied the
seats of learning, and controlled the legislation. It
may almost be said that they have made society what
it is, and moulded the minds and manners of the
people at pleasure. I would not admit, even by
implication, that all the master spirits of our country
haYe entertained the popular opinions in theology. I
know that a \Vashington, a Jefferson and a Franklin
-that the Nation,s Father-that the chief of the
Apostle,s of Liberty, and he ·who took the thund'er-
bolts from the armory of heaYen-that many of the
illustrious dead, have secretly cherished a better faith;
a faith not so much like firmness, but closely allied to
10 INTRODUCTORY
that CHAntTY that never faileth. Give to these men all
the influence they have possessed and exercised, and
still it is true that the power of the church has been felt
in all the departments of government, and in every
walk of life. And yet, with all these means and
opportunities at command, instead of performing a
great work for humanity, they have, according to their
own confession, accomplished nothing. If any one is
disposed to question the entire correctness of this
remark, let him listen to the communications from the
pulpit, and read the popular religious journals. The
great theme is the manifest declension in morals and
the general apathy in religion. The priests appre-
hend that the church is in danger, and as for the
world, it is about to experience a relapse, alike fatal
to its present happiness and future salvation. If there
is any ground for t)lese apprehensions, we may repeat
the question, on whom is this fearful responsibility to
rest ? If society is in a bad condition, why have they
not made it better ? If the standard of morals is low,
it is well to raise it up. They have the power, and
they have had ample time and opportunity to exercise
it. A period of centuries is quite sufficient to give
uny system a fair trial. If their principles have been
preached ,and practised thus long, and still the condi-
tion of society is in no way improved, it is surely
high time for the doctors to take their own nostrums,
and for the world to test the efficacy of other means.
There must be something intrinsically weak in a
DISCOURSE. 11
system that is productive of no better results. Is it
the part of wisdom to attempt to renovate the world
by means and instruments so long employed in vain 1
An illustration in this place, will enable the hearer to
form an intelligent judgment. Suppose you were ill,
and in a condi6on to require the professional services
of a physician ;-let it be supposed
0
that his first
prescription is calomel :-the second day, being no
better, you are directed to continue the same ;-the
third day, finding that you are still "·orse, and the
symptoms more alarming, he deals out double the
number of grains of calomel, and orders the same
prescription continued every day for one year. If
you were alive at the end of that time you 'rnuld
doubtless think it advisable to change the treatment.
Now the world has long been ill. There is a diseased
moral action, that affects the whole body. The church
has applied its remedies to check the disease. \Vith
little variation it has pursued the same mode of
treatment from year to year, through a long succession
of ages, and what is the result 1 Is the world any
better 1 \Vhy, the doctors bejng judges, it is in the
condition of the \Yoman who came to Jesus :-She
"had suffered many things of many physicians, and
had spent all that she had, and "·as nothing bettered,
but rather grew 'vorse." I therefore submit to the
judgment and common sense of the hearer, whether it
is not time to give up the patient. Let others try their
skill-for every century of the past, give them only
12 I NTRODUCTORY
ten years, and if, in the period thus allotted, they do
not effect a great and happy change in the physical,
the intellectual, the social, moral and religious condi-
tion of mankind ;-why, let them also resign, and
spend the remnant of their days in penance.
But before the people will acknowledge the justice
of our claims, and apply our principles in the affairs
of life and the government of the world, they must
be satisfied that they are founded in truth. It is our
privilege to furnish the evidence, and it becomes our#
appropriate duty to show that our faith is in harmony
with Reason and Nature-that it corresponds to the
essential constitution and philosophy of all things, and
is sanctioned by Revelation. Trusting in God for His
blessing, and in your kind indulgence, I 'vill under-
take to discharge this duty.
'Ve regret that the ackno,~:ledged faith and opinions
have done no more to elevate the affections, and
improve the condition of man. They have utterly
failed to correct the heart or the life. They have
disturbed his present peace and darkened his prospects
for the future. Thousands of the young and innocent
have been induced to relinquish 'vhatever is most
beautiful in life-to give up all that renders religion
attractive and divine, for a miserable superstition,
which, like the Upas, fills the very atmosphere with
death. I am reminded that this dark theology, like a
great Idol, has been rolling its ponderous car over the
world for ages-I follow its desolating track, by the
DISCOURSE. 13
wreck of noble minds-by the fearful wail of the lost
spirit, and the crushed hopes and affections of those I
love ! Oh! \vhen I look at this picture, drawn 1vith
the pencil of reality, in all its deep shado\VS and
startling colors, the brain is oppressed, and the heart
is sick; and while I \vould stifle the inquiry, it finds
an utterance :-In the name of reason, of humanity
and heaven, is there no hope for man !
It is with no unkind feelings that \Ve expose the
errors of the world ; whether they have their exist-
ence in opinion or practice, in the theories of men, or
in actual life, we must be allo\ved to speak with all
boldness, and without fear or favor. 'Ve love to tell
plain truths in a plain \vay; they are better understood.
\Ve cannot charm the ear with the essence of all
language; give us leave to speak an honest mind-
listen while we speak, and we ask no more. " Come
no,v, and let us reason together." It has been said
that he who will not reason is a bigot, that he who
cannot is a fool, and that he who dare not is a slave.
I trust that those whom I address are not \vanting in
the disposition, the ability or the courage. Let us
approach this subject with the consciousness that the
mind \Vas made to be free ; that it is our high prero..
gative to think for ourselves, and our duty to speak
and act for humanity. l\Iay I not hope that you will
all feel a deep interest in the subject of our investiga-
tions ? Is it not well to inquire whether the millions
of trembling spirits inhabiting this earth, may not
3
14 INTRODUCTORY.
all rejoice in hope of the glory of God ? \Ve cannot
be indifferent to the subject, if "\Ve heed the cries or
regard the claims of humanity. To live like rational
and immortal beings, we must be all attention and
action. \Ve should labor with a willing and a loving
spirit, to correct the errors of men and to remove the
evils of the world. To live truly, we must live in
generous feelings-in holy thoughts and illustrious
actions. The poet has given our idea of life.
""'\Ye live in deeds, not years; in thoughts, not breaths;
In feelings, not in figures on a dial.
* * * He most lives,
"'\Vho thinks most-feels the noblest-acts the best."
Hoping that our present labors may aid in some
small degree to promote this higher life, we invite
yon to go with us through the course of illustration
and argument. Our invitation is to all-" Col\IE NOW
AND LET US REASON TOGETHER."
DISCOURSE II .
THE DIVINE ATTRIBUTES.
Our God is the God of salvation.-PsALM LXVIII. 20.
ALL Christians and Theists admit the essential
attributes of the Divine Being. 'Ve shall not there-
fore stop to prove "\vhat no one will pretend to deny ;
but proceed at, once to reason from the nature of God
to the certain results of His government.
In reasoning from the attributes, we shall find that
they severally lead to the same conclusion.
I begin with the DrvrnE OMNIPRESENCE.
God is present with all His creatures. It is true,
'\Ye read of those who shall be banished '' from the
presence of the Lord ;" but we are not to understand
that the Divine Presence is, in reality, restricted
to certain persons or places. The Hebrews en-
tertained the opinion that the Spirit of Jehovah
\vas confined to the temple ;-that the sanctuary was
His dwelling place, in "\vhich alone the symbol of His
presence '\Vas to be seen. \Vhen, therefore, they are
represented as being " punished with everlasting
destruction from the presence of the Lord, and the
16 THE DIVIN~
glory of His power," 1
we understand that at the
destruction of their temple, they were to be driven
away from the holy place, no more to enjoy the
special manifestation of His glorious i1resence in the
sanctuary.
From what we know of the Di·dne nature, 've are:
assured, that God is in all places alike ; and that His
presence extends to every creature He has made#
" Thus saith the high and lofty One, that inhabiteth
eternity, whose name is Holy; I dwell in the high
and holy place. with him also that is of a contrite
and humble spirit."2
It is impossible for any creature
of God to be separated from His presence. The
Lord is in every place, beholding the evil and the
good :-The heaven of heavens cannot contain Him:
He is here-He is everywhere, and '"e may say, in
the language of the Psalmist, ""\Vhither shall I go
from thy Spirit? or whither shall I flee from thy
presence ? If I ascend up into heaYen, thou art there;
if I make my bed in hell, behold, thou art there; if
I take the wings of the morning, and dwell in the
uttermost parts of the sea, even there shall thy hand
lead me, and thy right hand shall hold me. If I say1
surely the darkness shall cover me, even the night
shall be light about me. Yea, the darkness hideth
not from thee ; but the night shineth as the day ; the
light and the darkness are both alike to thee."3
Now
'vhatever may be the conclusions drawn from this
1. II. Thess. i. 9. 2. Isa. lvii. 15. 3. Ps. cxxxix. 7-12.
ATTRIBUTES. 17
discussion of the Di vine Attributes, God is now-He
always will be-present 'vith all His creatures. To
say that He can withdraw His Divine presence from
a single soul, is to deny this essential attribute of His
nature, and render Him forever imperfect. Be it
remembered, therefore, that God is necessarily and
essentially present with all His creatures, in every
place; above, beneath and around, the Uni verse is
full of His Being.
II. Gon Is Ol\rn1scrnxT.-He is able to comprehend
all things. The Scriptures ascribe this wisdom to the
Creator:-" Kn0\n1 unto God are all his works, from
the beginning of the world."1
"0 Lord, ho\\' mani-
fold are thy "·orks ! in wisdom, hast thou made the_m
all. " j Indeed, reason, philosophy and Re,-elation,
all represent the Supreme Being as lmo"-ing and
" declaring the end from the beginning, and from
ancient times the things that are not yet done."6
It
follows, therefore, that all beings, circumstances and
events, whether they belong to the past, present, or
the future, are e,·er before Him, and subject to His
inspection.
"Did Ile o'erlook the least of Ilis concerns,
(Since fr11m the lca~t the greatest n!t originate.)
'l'he11 n11foresee11 Cf)11tingc11cc mi~ht :1\arm Ilim,
And di.-;ttlrb the :;mouth a11d equal cour,.:e of His affairs."
But since nothing great or small, v;hether past,
present or to come, can for one moment escape His
4. Acts xv. 18. 5. Ps. civ. ~4. G. Isa. xlvi. 10.
3c
18 THE DIYIXR
all-seeing eye ; it follows, of necessity, that there
can be no unforeseen contingences '"ith God-no
fortuitous eYents under His administration; nor can
there be any circumstances or changes in the moral
character and condition of His creatures, which He
did not clearly foresee, and fully comprehend. From
the dawn of creation He beheld the final issue. The
vast chain of being was complete before Him, and
v:ith a perfect knowledge of the life, character and
destiny of all His creatures, He gave them being;
and with reference to each, it may be said in truth,
He determined "the encl from the beginning." It
i3 true therefore, that the final destiny of man cannot
be different from the original design, purpose or
knowledge of God.
As God is infinitely wise, there can be no possible
mistake or imperfection in His purpose and plan,
concerning His creatures. If yon "·ere to pass
judgment on any work of art, you '"ould deter-
mine it to be wise or unwise, in proportion as it
possessed certain characteristics essential to its per-
fection. If it manifested a bencYolent design, and if
there was such an adaptation of the means employed
as inevitably to secure the intended result, you 'vould
pronounce the work to be a wise one. But if the
design '"as not good, or if there '"as not such a
snbsen"iency of the means ns would accomplish the
rn<l in Yiew, then, in either case, as one essential
characteristic was "·anting, you '"ould determine the
"·ork to be uml'ise.
A'l'TRIBUTES. 19
It may be well to present some illustrations o{ this
principle. Some time since, "\Ye read an account of
an infernal machine constructed in Paris. If we
mistake not, the manifest design in this case was, to
destroy the life of ·the French King. Now we may
suppose there "\Yas no "\Yant of mech~nical skill per-
ceptible in the construction of this terrible engine.
The several parts may have been "\Yell finished and
ingeniously put together. But the perfect adaptation
of means to the accomplishment of the object intended,
was not sufficient to render the work a wise one. It
"\ms evidently wanting in the first essential character-
istic of "\visdom. The design was not good, and hence
the "\\"orlc "\Vas imwise.
Again :-An individual resoh·es to make an instru-
ment that "\vill indicate the progress of time. He
begins by forming wheels and springs of different
sizes and curious "·orkmanship. At length, these are
severally completed, but in putting the whole together,
it is found that there is not such an adaptation of the
Yarious parts as \\'as necessary to secure the in-tended
object. The purpose was to produce an instrument to
measure time. The design was good, but there i's a
mistake in the use of the means, which renders the
instrument altogether useless. It follo,vs that this
work is demid of wisdom.
Once more :-It is proposed to erect a Christian
temple. The object in this case is, to provide a place
to be devoted to the worship of God, and the purposes
20 THE DIVINE
of moral and religious instruction. T he design is
good. It only remains to make a judicious use and
application of the requisite means, so that the end is
accomplished. ' VhereYer there is a good design, and
the snbserviency of the means is plainly discernible,
we must of necessity conclude that the ·work is founded
in wisdom.
L et us apply the argument. T he works of God are
wise, not merely because they are Hi;:; ; but because
they possess the prerequisites I have mentioned.
They manifest a good design, and in eYery instance
where we are able to form an intelligent judgment,
there is such an arran,s·ement of means as uniformly
leads to the int~nded result. N O\Y unless these tl\·o
essential characteristic~ are un~ ted in everything that
God has created, it cannot b0 said, in truth, that in
wisdom He has madfl all His works. 'ye would
apply this infallible te~t to a i:ariety of objects in the
various departments of the Creator's works, but time
will not permit. \Ve must tl1erefore restrict its ap-
plication to, man. Suppose that the design of God in
the creation of man was to place him here for a few
fleeting moments, and then to annihilate him forever.
Yon woul<l not call that a good de~_ign. If the i1wentor
of a complicated machine should make a large number
only to break them in pieces with his 01,·n hands, the
question i~ yonr minds would not relate so much to
the goodness or wisdom of the man, as to his sanity.
Indeed, you would naturally infer that he had lost his
ATTRIBUTES. 21
reason. "\Ve conclude, therefore, that if it 'vas the
purpose of God in the creation of man to destroy His
own work, the design was not good, and the work is
unwise.
Again :-Suppose it to haYe been the purpose of God
to render man endlessly miserable. Every individual
of common sense and discernment wiU readily disco-
ver that this was not a good design. The work does
not eyen possess the firs.t characteristic necessary to
render it wise. If we admit that there has been a
fatal application of means to this fearful end, this ·is
but another ~ evidence that the whole \Vork is forever
opposed to all the dictates of wisdom. If you say
that the purpose of God in the \York of creation \YaS a
benevolent one ;-that He d-id design the happiness of
all, but that all will not finally be happy ; then, you
virtually assume that He has failed in adapting the
means to the end, which is an impeachment of His
wisdom.
\Vhen we affirm that the purpose of God was
benevclent-that He designed to render His creatures
happy; \Ye only respond to the united voices of
Rer.son, of Nature, and of ReYelation. These, all
proclaim, in a language that steals through the silent
chambers of the soul, like the music of angel voices,
to remind us that Goel is supremely good, and that the
plan by which He will accomplish His mighty purpose,
is the best which Infinite \Visdom could devise.
"\Vill it be said, that it was the original purpose of
God to save all men, but many are impenitent and
22 THE DIVIN~
\\'ill not be saYed? This objection has not the merit
of a sophism. If you say that the original purpose
of God was to save all, I affirm that to be His present
purpose. "\Ve shall see from this discussion of the
attributes, that God is unchangeable; so that His ori-
ginal purpose must be His final purpose. If there is
one lost on account of the depth of pis turpitude, this 'vill
be a failure in suiting the means to the end designed.
It avails nothing to say that man is desperately wicked.
He ''iVho knew all things, knew "·hen He created him
what his life and character would be. If you still say
that man is obstinate, and will not be saYed, I reply
that God who has power to see and determine the
end from the beginning, has declared that He "will
have all men to be sa'Ved." \Ve may, however,
inquire further, whether God has the po,ver to
accomplish His purpose. And here we are pr~sented
"\Yith another attribute of the Divine nature.
III. Gon Is O:M:NIPOTENT.-He is therefore able,
and will accomplish His purpose.. We read that "He
doeth according to His will in the army of heaven
and among the inhabitants of the earth, and none
can stay his hand."7
If 0 mnipotency be one of
the Divine attributes, it must follow of necessity
that no power in the Universe can successfully
oppose Him. As He is the Great First Cause of
all things, it is reasonable to infer that everything in
the Universe must in some way, derive its existence
7. Dan. iv. 3/i.
ATTRIBUTES. 23
from Him. Nothing can continue to exist in opposition
to His 'vill. He is able to subdue all things. All
seemingly opposite powers must, therefore, exist by
penmss10n, and be subject to His control. He is
Almighty. No existing principles-no train of cir-
cumstances or events-no combination of men or
demons, can resist His power, or pervert the accom-
plishment of His purpose. To deny this position, is to
rob the Great Positive Mind of this essential attribute
-to question His right to the Sovereignty of the
Universe. All agree, that God is infinite in power-
to be .consistent, they must admit that "He 'vill do
all His pleasure." Let us briefly recapitulate the
several points in the argument :
1. The purpose of God in the creation of Man,
'vas to render him happy.
2. God is infinitely wise ; consequently He can,
with unerring precision, adapt the means to the encl.
3. God is infinite in power; and '"ill, therefore,
accomplish His purpose. "And I heard, as it 'vere,
the voice of a great. multitude, and as the voice of
many waters, and as the voice of mighty thunder-
ings, saying, Alleluia; for the Lord God Omnipotent
reigneth !"8
IV. Gon 1s hrPARTIAL.-All' are alike the objects
of His care, and the subjects of His government.
"The Lord is good to all." "He maketh his sun to
rise on the evil and on the good, and sendeth rain on
8. Rev. xix. G.
24 THE DIVINE
the just and on the unjust."9
The earth and its
increase-the light of heaven-the pure air and
~parkling waters, are all impartially bestowed. From
all we know of His nature, we are satisfied that God
must ever regard all His children with the same
favorable purpose. They all derive their existence
from Him-He is the Father of all-all possess a
similar nature, and we may rest assured that He will
so adapt the means to the end-so overrule all circum-
stances and events, as to secure to all at last a glorious
destiny. As God is impartial, He certainly did not
create some men for immortal joys, and others for
endless pains. To assert that He did, is to dispute
the Divine Impartiality. The vvisdom which teaches
this sentiment is from beneath-is " earthly, sensual,
devilish~ " But we read of another kind of \Visdom
which is from above. That is "pure"-it is "full of
mercy and good fruits." It is "without partiality." 10
Thus far, this examination of the different attributes
seems tending to one conclusion, \Yhich may be
expressed in the words of the Psalmist : " Our God
is the God of salvation.''
There are several essential attributes of the DiYine
nature yet remaining to be improved in this discussion.
V. Gon Is MERCIFUL.-When the Lord revealed
Himself to Moses from the cloud at Sinai, \Ve read
that He passed before him and proclaimed, .... " The
Lord God, merciful and gracious, long-suffering, and
9. Matth. v. 45. 10. James iii.15, 17.
ATTRIBUTES. 25
abundant in goodness and truth, keeping mercy for
thousands, forgiving iniquity, transgression and sin,
and that will by no means clear the guilty." 11
\Vhen
the people continued obstinately to trespass against
Him, He still remembered them in mercy. If, for a
little season, He visited "their iniquity with stripes,"12
it w·as for a wise and gracious purpose. If He con-
cealed His face " for a moment," He still determined
"with eYerlasting kindness" to have mercy on them.13
If mercy is one of the attributes of Deity, it must be
eternal as His own nature. To suppose that a time
will come in 'vhich this attribute of the Divine
::.\Iind will no longer be exercised, is quite as absurd
as to suppose that God can cease to exist altogether.
Unto the " Lord belongeth mercy ;" and that " His
mercy endureth forever," is distinctly affirmed more
than fifty times in the Scriptures. You readily appre·
hend, perhaps more fully than I can explain, the
nature of this attribute. I know of no word in our
language exactly synonymous with mercy. \Ve 1rnn~
however, if necessary, define the term with sufficient
accuracy for our present purpose. lVIercy implies
pity, or compassion for those who suffer, united with
a disposition to relieve them. It implies clemency-
a spirit of forgiveness tovrnrds offenders, ·with a desire
to do them good. It requires beneYolence, tenderness
and good will to all. The mercy of God is defined
to be that essential perfection of His nature, whereby
11. Exodus xxxiY. G, 7. 12. Ps. lxxxix. 12 13. Isa. liv. S.
4
26 THE DIVINE
He pities the offender, and relieves the m1senes of
His creatures. Now, ·with reference to the great
question of man's destiny, what is the logical infer-
ence to be drawn from the nature of this attribute ~
Suppose we say that some men will be Lloomed to
endless pain. Such a result can never be reconciled
with the Divine Mercy. "The mercy of the Lord
endureth forever ;"-it is the nature of mercy to pity
and forgiYe the offender, and to relieve the sufferer.
As His mercy is inYested with infinite power to act
and accomplish its purpose, it follO\vs that the offender
will be forgiven, and the last sufferer 'vill find relief.
"\Vith everlasting kindness I will have mercy on
thee, saith the Lord thy Redeemer." It must he evi-
dent that no partial scheme of salvation can be made
to harmonize with the infinite mercy of God. If you
say that God will finally withdraw His mercy from a
part of his creatures, you must prove that He will
withdraw His all-pervading presence from a part of
the Universe. If you assert that His forgiving mercy
will cease to be exercised towards the sinner, you
virtually assume that He will cease to be Goel-'' The
fool hath said in his heart, there is no God."
'\Ve have seen that endless suffering is not compati-
ble with the Divine mercy. But the fatherly correc-
tion with which God is pleased to visit His children,
i\S not by any means opposed to His mercy. Hence
the Psalmist speaks of the administration of justice,
and the punishment of offenders, as an evidence of
ATTRIBUTES. 27
God's mercy to them:-·' Unto thee, 0 Lord, belongeth
mercy ; for thou renderest to every man according to
his works." 14
Here we are presented with another
attribute of the Divine nature.
VI. Goo rs JusT.-Justice is defined to be that
essential perfection in God, which r~nders Him infi-
nitely righteous, both in His nature, and in all His
proceedings with His creatures.
Justice requires that the guilty should be punished,
and any system of government which fails to secure
this end, is manifestly unjust. The common idea of the
Divine government, 'vhich removes the consequences of
sin into the future state, is thus opposed to justice. It
proceeds upon the assumption that the sinner may escape
desened punishment, by means of a simple act of re-
pentance, when God 'will by no means clear the guilty.'
Again :-Justice demands that the infliction should
be acc'Jrding to the works of men-that one should be
graduated by the other. In other words, the degree
of punishment should correspond to the magnitude of
the offence. But the system that dooms half the
world to endless pains, has not the slightest reference
to this proportion. It is, therefore, opposed to the
plainest principles of equity, and utterly indefensible.
Bet\Yeen the sins of this \vorld and the supposed
torments of hell, there is the same disproportion that
distinguishes time from eternity, and the finite from
the infinite. To say that sin is an infinite evil, (so
14. Psalms !xii. 12.
28 THE DIVINE
far from removing1) only increases the difficulty. It
supposes that a finite being can perform an action
infinite in its nature, and the magnitude of its conse·
qnences, which is impossible. It observes no just
distinction, but renders all offences equal-it destroys
all degrees of turpitude ; thus, making the little child
who is conscious of a single fault, as guilty as the fabled
fiend of darkness. If the stream cannot rise above
the fountain-if the effect cannot be greater than the
cause-surely, a finite being whose powers, and
volitions are circumscribed to the passing moment,
can never produce an infinite evil. If one sin does not
deserve an infinite punishment, it follows of necessity,
that all the sins of all men cannot require such an
infliction, because no possible number of offences, of
a finite character, can equal in magnitude an infinite
penalty. Now, as the punishment, to be just, must
be in proportion to the offence, it follows that endless
punishment is opposed to justice. We read that God
will " render to every man according to his works."
Endless misery is not according to our works ; there-
fore, God will not refl:der that measure of punishment
to any man.
Once more ;-I observe that the justice God requires
the perfect obedience of all men. INFINITE JusTICE
DE:i'IIANDS UNIVERSAL RIGHT. It admits of no punish-
ment that is not wise in its administration, benevolent
in its object, and salutary in its influence. In this
view of the subject, justice is not opposed to mercy:
ATTRIBUTE~.
they are but different modifications of the Divine good·
ness-one administers punishment when it is required10
and the other withholds it when wisdom determines its
infliction to be unnecessary. Thus we see that these
attributes of the Divine Mind, are all harmonious in
.r
their spirit and operation; and God, ~nstead of being
divided against Himself, is of one mind.
The idea, that endless sin and suffering is necessary
to satisfy the claims of Justice, is too absurd to be
cherished for a moment. Would Divine Justice place
the offender in a situation where he would continue
to violate its requirements forever 1 Think you, that
Justice would be satisfied with the sufferings of the
guilty, 'vithout reference to any good as the result ?
Such a punishment would be unmerciful ; and be
assured, there is no Justice in earth or heaven, where
there is no mercy. But we must leave this point.
Let it neYer be forgotten, that the justice of God
demands the perfect rectitude of man. The conclusion
is therefore inevitable-the claims of Justice "·ill only
be satisfied by nnirersal obedience and righteousness,
idiich is, UNIVERSAL SALVATION.
It matters not which of these attributes we employ as
the ground of the argument, they severally lead to the
same happy conclusion. When all are combined, they
constitute the DiYine nature, which is LovE. "\Vhen
the apostle says that "Gon 1s LovE," he comprehends
all His attributes, and gives us a most perfect de..
scription of His whole nature. Finally, I obserrn,
4o
30 THE DIVINE ATTRIBUTES.
Gon Is hrnuTABLE.-His nature is not susceptible .
of any change. .'Vith Him is no variableness, neither
shadow of turning. As God is unchangeable, He
will always remain what He now is. If, in the be-
ginning, He wn.s good to all, He will be equally so in
the end. If His original purpose was to render all
men happy; that, certainly, will be His ultimate
purpose. Hence ·we must conclude, that no soul will
be lost. It matters not where the creature may be
placed in heaven, earth, or hell-God is with him.
If I ascend up into heaven, He is there-if I take
the 1Yings of the morning and dwell in the uttermost
parts of the sea, God is there-if I make my bed in
hell, behpld, He is there.15
Indeed, we can never go
beyond His presence,
"'Vhere umversal lo.-e smile.:; not arouncl.n
He is in all places alike-His centre is everywhere,
and no creature of His power will eYer find the
circumference of His being. Suppose man banished
from heaven, and shut up in hell ;-God is there-
He will be with him-His wisdom is there to compre-
hend his condition-His mercy is there to pity and
forgive, and relieve the sufferer-His justice is there
to secure obedience and righteousness; and verily,
these, armed with Almighty power, will save his soul
from death. It is with peculiar propriety that we
appropriate to ourselves the sentiment of the motto-
QuR Gon is THE Gon OF SALVATION.
1~. P.;alms cx:x:xix. 8, 9.
THE WORKS O:F NATURE:
" For the invisible things of Him from the creation of the world are
clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made."-Ro:.\L I. 20.
IT was not the design of God, in the work of
Revelation, to make man a religious being. This
end was secured in His creation. From the beginning
he possessed religious faculties and capacities, which
depend upon no system for their manifestation. There
is a principle in man that prompts him to reverence a
higher power. This has given rise to the numerous
systems of faith and 'vorship. Various causes
have operated in giving the religious sentiment
its direction ; but the principle itself has a place in
every human soul. It is not the result of second
causes. Some other agency may mark out the course,
prepare a channel, and give direction to the stream,
but the spring is in man, and it flows out as naturally
as the current of his life. It is not, therefore, the
true and proper design of religion to change the nature
of man, or to confer any new powers upon him ; but
simply to guide and govern him in the exercise of
those he possesses. Hence, it follows, that a religious
system will promote the happiness of man ; and iS
32' THE \YORKS
valuable to him, only so far as it tends to the proper
development of the religious sentiment.
The religion of nature would be sufficient, if its
dictates were attentively observed and faithfully
obeyed, to prevent those flagrant abuses of this princi..
ple, which mark the history of man in almost every
age. God has nowhere left His creatures in total
darkness. Some rays of the light Divine, penetrate
the veil that is spread over the nations of the earth.
The heathen sees around him glimmerings of the
Eternal Spirit. The Almighty speaks to man in the
voices of Nature, and
-" tl.e poor Indian sees God in clouds, and hears him in the wind."
Indeed, wherever man exists, under whatever circum..
stances he may be placed, and however limited may
be the developments of his intellect and the powers
of his comprehension, he has nevertheless some idea
of a Supreme Intelligence. The rude an~i uncivilized
will not, of course, possess elevated and comprehensive
views of His existence and perfections. Their con..
ceptions ·will be low and grovell~ng. Still, it is not
alone in christian lands that Deity has made Himself
known. His law is vaitten in the hearts of men,
and even the light of Nature, if faithfully improved,
'voulcl guitle them aright. This may be inferred from
the language of the apostle:-" For when the Gen..
tiles, which have not the law, do by nature the things
contained in the law, these, having not the law,
are a law unto themselves :-\Vhich shew the work
OF NATURE. 33
of the law 'vritten in their hearts, their conscience
also bearing witness, and their thoughts, the mean
while, accusing or else excusing one another,"1
In the text and its connection, the idea is plainly
set forth, that man may acquire a general knowledge
of the existence, unity and wisdom of the Divine
Being, from the contemplation of His \vorks.
The works of art convey to the mind the idea of
mental agency. In all of these, from the simplest to
the most intricate, wherever we discover a subser-
viency of means to certain ends, "~e regard it as
incontestable evidence of intelligence. The operation
of mind and the proofs of design are so plainly
discernible here, as to satisfy even the Atheist, that
they are the product of human ingenuity. vVhat if
some of these works have existed for ages ? So long
indeed that no tradition remains respecting their
origin? This fact can never invalidate the conclusion.
The antiquarian gathers the remains of art from among
the ruins of ancient cities-the traveller gazes with
astonishment at the .lofty pyramids, but 've never
doubt that these are all the work of man, though 've
'vere not present to witness their construction, nor
yet, because they belong to a period in which history
had no voice. The evidence here is sufficient to
enable us to reason philosophically. In most of the
works of art, there is a manifest design-the adapta-
tion of means to the end is clearly seen, and hence it
1. Romans ii. U, 15.
34 THE WORKS
is impossible to err in the conclusion. Now, the
Atheist himself would reject, with utter contempt,
the idea that any law of Nature, or any principle of
order, independent of the intelligence and industry
of man, was sufficient to account for the existence of
these things.
But let this reasoning be applied to the works of
nature. These are vast beyond conception, and
infinitely more complicated. The evidences of de4
sign are no less apparent here.. The proofs of
intelligence discoverable in the 1vorks of creation as
far surpass those we haYe considered, as Nature
transcends in the magnitude and sublimity of her
operations the feeble efforts of art. If the simple
structures reared by man, convey to our minds the
idea of mental agency, who will suppose that the vast
frame work of creation is not the plan of Infinite
Wisdom, and the handiwork of Omnipotent Power.
If we associate the idea of intelligence with the
comparatively insignificant creations of art, he must
possess a mind diseased, who can look out upon the
wide \Vorld around him, and contemplate the order
and harmony which mark the stupendous operations
of Nature, and ascribe the whole to accident, to chance,
to the inherent principles of gross matter, or any
other blind and unintelligent cause.
In the application of the argument, let us select for
our purpose, the sphere \Ve inhabit. Though a mere
speck, scarcely discernible on the map of the Universe,
OF NATURE. 35
it is nevertheless the theatre of all human operations.
To be a fit residence for man, it \Vas necessary that
the different portions of the earth's surface should be
alternately \varmed by the solar rays. In order to
expose the different quarters of the globe in reciprocal
succession to the light and heat of the sun, the earth
has a rotary motion. This motion i$ n·ot essential to
its existence ; yet if suspended, Yegetation would
cease and animal life would become extinct. In this
case, one half of the earth being constantly exposed
to the solar rays, \Yould be consumed with the ever
increasing heat, while the other, chained with the
eternal frosts, \vould be consigned to everlasting night.
The annual revolution around the sun \Vas equally
necessary to constitute the earth the abode of man.
To secure this end, the earth must receive an impetus
·which \vould exactly balance the sun's attractive
power. If the momentum \vas insufficient, the earth
would proceed to the sun; if too great, it would be
driven from its orbit, and become the angel of
destruction to the distant worlds ! The equilibrium
is nicely adjusted, and the earth moves on as it has
ever moved, since first the morning sun threw his
bright beams ath\Yart the gloom profound ! Are there
no manifestations of design in all this ?-.-no proofs of
a far-seeing Intelligence, having the power to grasp
immensity? Look at the great moving scene around!
Examine the complex and curious mechanism of
N"ature, and tell me if the visible Universe does not
THE \VORKS
reveal the existence of an invisible Being, who per·
forms His "\\·onclers above, beneath and around-who
'' doeth His will in the army of heaven and among
the inhabitants of the earth. "2
Again :-It "\Yas necessary that the earth should be
watered. 'Vithout the gentle dews that moisten and
fertilize the soil, it \vould soon become barren as the
burning sands .of the desert. To secure this important
end, so essential to the continuance of vegetable and
animal life, a great process is constantly going on in
nature, by means of \Yhich water is raised in the form
of vapor into the upper regions, "\Yhere it is condensed,
and from which it descends in refreshing showers to
renovate the earth. Any derangement in this order
of things, would be attended with the most disastrous
consequences. The countless myriads of living crea-
tures that exist in the air, the earth and the fountains
of waters, would perish. I ask you to examine the
e'·idences of wisdom, so plainly perceptible in Nature's
works. · Observe with "\vhat perfect uniformity these
stupernlous operations are carried on from age to age ;
and reflect that the existence, arrangement, and
movements of this system, all tend to one great end,
which is, LIFE AND HAPPINESS.
If it is affirmed that all this results from the
operation of natural laws, my reply is, a law presup-
poses an intelligent actor, who chooses this method
to accomplish his designs. The law itself proves the
2. Dan'.el iv. 35.
OF NATURE~
existence of the legislator; for it is the peculiar
method according to 'vhich he proceeds. By this
means, order is preserved, and the ends of govern-
ment are secured. It would be in vain for me to
maintain that any principle of law or order is sufficient
to account for the existence of the temple ,in i\Yhich W.43
meet and worship-then.,
11
Go to that fane most catholic and solemn,
vVhich G-od hath planned.
To that cathedral, boundless as our wonder,
\Yhose quenchless lomps the sun and moon supp!y,;
Its choir, the ·winds and waves-its orgnn, thuu<ler-
Its dome, the ~ky !:'
And tell me if this migbty fabr:.ic, w1th all its beantJ
and grandeur, is not the plan of the Infinite Mind.
Fix your eye upon those luminous orbs which shed
their light on the far-distant ·worlds :-They are the
gems that glitter on the lofty brow of Creation. Long
ages have rolled a\vay- empires, kingdoms and states
have fallen to -arise no more !-Yet still they shine~
as .first they shone,
" In the young morning of Creation's light."
The voice of, Revelation is heard, saying, "The
heaven's declare the glory of God, and the firmament
showeth His handiwork."3
Nature, with her ten
thousand tongues, confirms the truth, that these are
the workmanship of Him "'vho hath measured the
waters in the hollow of His hand, and meted o·lt
heaven with the span."4
3. Psalm xix. 1. -1 Irniah xl. 12.
38 THE WORKS
It is not sufficient for us to be satisfied that God is.
\Ve wish to know something of His nature and
purposes, and to this subject we invite yonr attention.
As man is at the disposal of his Creator, it follows
that this inquiry has an important bearing upon his
future prospects; and it is from this circumstance that
the subject considered with reference to man, deriYes
its chief importance.
Suppose an individual to live under the form of .
government termed an absolute monarchy-he would
certainly derive no satisfaction from the mere con-
sideration that there was one \vho had power to
dispose of him as he pleased, without reference to
his interest or wishes. Indeed, it is quite probable
that this, instead of contributing in any degree to his
happiness, \vould have the effect to render him
miserable. Being profoundly ignorant of the dispo-
sition and character of his royal master, he would
not know whether to anticipate good or evil at his
hands. The future \vould be left to conjecture. The
sovereign might exercise his authority in such a
manner as to promote the best interests of his subjects,
and he might not. There would at least exist the
apprehension in the mind of the subject, of being
torn from friends and home-cast into prison, and
left to drag out his weary days and nights in
solitude, darkness and chains. The bare possibility
of being thus disposed of, \\70uld be sufficient to
disturb his peace and fill the mind with gloomy
OF 1\ATURE. 39
forebodings. Need I remind you that God is the
SoYereign of the ·world, and that the case I have
supposed presents a fair representation of the con-
dition of that man who is ignorant of the DiYine
nature ? Such an one knows not whether he shall
exist at all in the future. "\Vhether he is destined
to dwell with beatified spirits, or with howling
demons-in the abodes of light, or the prison house
of despair-is to him a matter of doubt and uncer-
tainty. It "\Yill be perceived, therefore, that the subject
of the present inquiry is an important one.
It will not of course be expected, nor is it necessary
to satisfy the mind, that we should be able to explain
all the phenomena of nature, in such a manner as to
harmonize with the infinite benevolence of Deity.
The light of science is insufficient, and the perceptiYe
po"\Yers of man too feeble, to enable him to understand
all the secret and mysterious operations that are going
on around him. Tl~e machinery of nature is so
exceedingly complicated, and its moYements so pro-
foundly intricate, as to perplex the wisest philosopher.
If, howeYer, it is made to appear from our examination,
that happiness instead of misery is the result of the
present order of things, it will be sufficiently eYident
that the arrangement is founded in wisdom, and proves
the benevolence of its Author.
Life is a blessing. The existence God has conferred
on His creatures is productive of happiness. All who
have examined the book of Nature with care, have
found the evidence on this point full and connncmg.
40 THE WORKS
Indeed, the earth, the air, and the fountains of \Vaters
-the wilderness and the solitary place-the fountains
of the great deep and the burning sands of the desert,
are all full of life. They are peopled with their
respectiYe inhabitants. Each is wisely adapted to its
own element, and fitted for the peculiar situation in
which it is placed. This is true of every living thing
-of the creatures which seek the protection of man,
as well as those that dwell amid the deep solitudes
of Kature's wild retreats. It is true of the little
insect, frail as the gossamer that floats on the
summer's breeze, no less than of the bold eagle
who maketh his aerie where the storms gather, and
the thunders smite the everlasting rocks ! Each
is happy in its sphere, and to the full extent of its
capacity.
It is equally true of man, that pleasure, though
unsought, is nevertheless the natural result of the
proper exercise of his powers. His senses are doubt-
less more perfect than those of inferior creatures, and
the pleasure he derives from this source is more
refined and exquisite. He views with delight what-
e,·er is bright and beautiful. He who designed the
happiness of man, has made everything necessary to
his enjoyment. Even the vestments of nature are of
a color most grateful to his eye. For him, the flowers
impart their fragrance to the passing breeze :-the
gToYes of spices and the delicious fruits of autumn
nre for his gratification :-for him, the earth is filled
OF KATURE. 41
with music, and he goes forth to listen to the soft
tones that come
"From eYery tree, and hill, and mountain side."
But man has higher powers, and on the culture and
exercise of these, the measure of his happii~ess is
made to depend. The intellectual faculties constitute
in man, the spring of more refined and elevated
enjoyment. Though this is not ordinarily, if in.de~d
it be ever' the 0 bj ect by which man is led to exercise
the po,vers of his mind ; still, it is true that happiness
is the result of proper mental as well as physical
action. The pleasure derived from this source, is
usually in proportion to the intellectual refinement and
moral purity of the recipie~t. As the higher faculties
are developed and improved, the capacity for enjoy-
ment is enlarged and the measure of happiness is
increased.
But I am reminded that this world does not,_
by any
means, present a scene of uninterrupted enjoyment.
In the picture of human life as it exists, there are
many deep shades of woe. Man is not always happy;
yet, after all that has been said o( the miseries of
this life, they are slight when compared with the vast
amount of happiness everywhere diffused and enjoyed.
\Ne have had occasion to remark, tha~ the proper
exercise of our powers, whether of body or mind, is
productive of pleasure instead of pain. It is when
these are abused-when the Creator's laws, either
morai, physi~al or organic, are violated, that derange·
DE
42 THE WORKS
ment in the economy of Nature ensues, and man is
made to suffer. The infliction is wise and just;
nor is the goodness of God displayed alone in what we
enjoy. It is equally manifest in the wise arrangement
by which we are made to suffer. It requires.but a
superficial examination of the subject, to satisfy an
unprejudiced mind that punishment, under the Divine
administration, is corrective in its nature. In other
words, the pain has a tendency to remove the evil, or
to prevent its recurrence. I will endeavor to elucidate
this point. There are certain immutable laws, essen-
tial to life and happiness. Man is endowed with
faculties which enable him to perceive and obey the
institutions of Nature ; and all experience proves, that
pleasure is the invariable result of obedience to their
r.equirements. This being the case, it would be
preposterous indeed, to question either the wisdom
or benevolence of the Being who instituted these
laws, because pain is the result of an infringement.
Indeed, this one fact must prove, beyond all reasonable
controversy, that they are founded in wisdom, and
evince the goodness of their Author. vVe will take
as an example, the law by which the fluids of organic
bodies may be congealed and dissipated. It is well
known that extreme cold or heat will produce these
results ; and you are aware that in either case, the
consequence is, the destruction of the vital principle.
It is true, that many persons have suffered death from
exposure to the cold. Vast numbers have experienced
much rain from this cause ; but even this fact, so far
OF NATURE. 43
from furnishing a valid objection to our reasoning, may
be claimed as evidence of the Divine benignity. If
it were otherwise-if the pain, necessary to remind
us of our danger, was removed, \Ve should be inca-
pable of self-preservation. The inhabitants of cold
climates would be in constant danger of losing their
lives from this cause. As it is, Natui·e is not regard-
less of her children-they are kindly admonished.
Pain is to them an angel of mercy, sent to indicate
the proximity of danger, and to warn them to flee
from the impending destruction.. The child that has
once put its hand in the fire and experienced the
painful consequences, will not designedly expose itself
a second time to the action of this element. Thus
we see, in this case also, the pain has a tendency to
correct, or rather to prevent, the evil. It does more
to preserve the child from destruction,. than even the
mother's watchful carey
Man cannot plead ignorance of these laws. \Vhe-
ther in savage or civilized life, he has the ability to
guard against the danger,.and to.preserve his life and
limbs. Even in infancy and early childhood, we
become acquainted with their operation. Let me
instance another example :-·It shall be the la\v of
gravity, as applied to the child in its first attempt to
walk. Its steps are incautious and uncertain; it falls,
and the accident occasions severe pain. Now, I call
your attention to the fact, that the child has already
oecome acquainted with the existence of this great
essential law of Nature. To be satisfied of this, you.
•
44 THE WORKS
have only to observe its future movements. The next
effort is far more guarded, and thus by repeated trials
and the exercise of great caution, it acquires the free
use of its limbs. Let us suppose the child so consti-
tuted, that a wound in the flesh, or the fracture of a
bone, will produce no pain. In this case, it would fail
to discoYer the necessity of adapting its movements
to the existing law. Insensible to pain, it would use
no precaution to guard against repeated violations.
And thus, by a total indifference to this all-pervading
principle, the most complicated and beautiful of the
Creator's 'vorks would be mutilated and destroyed.
These illustrations are sufficient to show that the
good1?ess of God is as much displayed in what we
suffer, as in what we enjoy. Then, let not man
question the Divine benevolence because pain is the
consequence of his disobedience. In leaving this
department of the Creator's lVorks, I cannot forbear
the remark, that man need not be ignorant of his
l\faker. The existence-the infinite wisdom, and the
boundless benevolence of God-these are written out
in all His works and ways. "The invisible things of
Him from the creation of the world are clearly seen,
being understood by the things that are made."
The doctrine of the text is, that man may learn
the character and disposition of the Divine Being,
from the phenomena of Nature and the visible objects
of creation. From which of these am I to learn that
God is angry, " after the manner of men ?" Am I
to look at the.great deep,.
OF NATURE .
" "~hen the storm
Come.~ o'er the sky, and lushes up the waves
To deeds of vengea11ce ?"
Think you that in lnath,
" He takes the ruffian billows by tl1e top,
Curling their monstrous heads, and hanging them
'Vith deafening clamors, on the slippery clouds trr
45
Is this the semblance of His terrible majesty ? Does
the wild ocean's wave present the deep impress of His
Almighty ire? \Vill the Christian say that this scene
of fierce commotion indicates the disposition of his
God? Nay. It is thus the heathen in his blindness
beholds the Deity. \Vhen the billows rush in 'vild
tumult to the shore, and Nature's awful bass shakes
the deep caverns of the sea, he trembles to think
the gods are angry ! But we have not read the
book of Nature thus. The tempest and the storm, no
less than the succeeding calm, demonstrate to our
minds,' the goodness of God. \Vhen He uttereth His
voice, there is a multitude of waters in the heavens ;
and He causeth the vapors to ascend from the ends of
the earth ; He maketh lightnings with rain, and
bringeth forth the ·wind out of His treasures."5
These
are among the means by which His blessings are
diffused. \Vith His lightnings, He rends the fountains
of the sky, and pours their treasures on the thirsty
earth. The storm is but the pencil '\vith which the
great Artist restores the fading colors on Nature's
canvass, and paints the landscape '\Yith a more YiYid
5. Jeremiah x . 13.
46 THE WORKS
beauty. The noxious Yapors are dissipated, and the
atmosphere is purified by the war of elements. The
earth is rendered lovely by the descending shower.
It smiles anew, and hope revives, when the heavens
weep. Then let man, as he goes forth with new life
and Yigor, to inhale the pure air and the rich fragrance
of the opening flowers, remember the Author of all
his blessings. Let him "praise the Lord for His
goodness, and for His wonderful works ;" for His
mercy tempers the winds, and His wisdom guides
the storm. His love is reflected from every blue
·wave-it vvhispers in each passing breeze, and shines
amid the dark waters, and the thick clouds He maketh
His pavilion !
The wisdom of this world teaches that God is a
partial Being-that while some of His children will
forever enjoy the smiles of His loYe, others will be
consigned to darkness and chains, and cursed 1vith an
existence of unmingled wretchedness. Now we learn
that " the invisible things of God are plainly seen,
being understood by the things that are made."
'Vhere, then, amid the works of creation, shall we find
the proofs of this sentiment ? The sun shines 'vith
equal splendor upon the evil and the good, and the
rain descends alike on the just and the unjust.
Does this teach the lesson that God is a partial,
malevolent and vindictive Being? Is this the en-
during record of His terrible vengeance ? Nay.
But these are "confirmation strong as proofs of
Holy Writ," that He is good to all; ths.t His tender
OF NATURE. 47
mercies are over all, and that He 'vill ever bless and
curse not. The Saviour read the book of Nature
aright. He discovered therein the living evidences
of the Father's love for all His children. He pointed
His hearers to the sun and the rain as proofs of the
universality of the Divine benevolence. " Love your
enemies, bless them that cu:rse you, do good to them
that hate you, and pray for them that despitefully use
you and persecute you, that ye may be the children
of your Father which is in heaven; for He maketh
His sun to rise on the evil and on the good, and senieth
rain on the just and on the unjust."6
He would prove
from this, that the Father's love is impartial as the
light of heaven and the refreshing sho\vers that
descend and beautify the earth. He would have us
learn from these, His 'vorks, that God is kind and
merciful, even to the unthankful, and the evil, and
that in proportion as 've love our enemies and render
blessing for cursing, we shall resemble Him who is
the standard of all perfection. The 'visdom which
teaches that God is a partial Being, is "from beneath,"
and is founded in ignorance and selfishness. The
idea is utterly opposed to the revelations of God in
Nature. The earth is bright and beautiful-on the
heavens above, the GREAT lNv1srnLE has inscribed in
characters of light, the evidences of His impartial
love. The sun that shines alike for all, whose diffu-
sive rays are felt over the wide earth, is the semblance
of His peerless glory; and you will remember that
6. Matt. v. 44, 45.
48 THE WORKS
we are to learn from these visible objects of creation
the character of the invisible Creator. The works
of Nature so far as man has been permitted to extend
his observations, teach but one lesson-the infinite
wisdom and the boundless benevolence of their Author.
In this conclusion we must rest, and not till the sun
shines for the benefit of a few, and the dews of
heaven descend to fertilize the fields of the just only,
shall we believe that God is a partial Being, and that
the righteous alone are the objects of His care, and
ihe recipients of His loYe..
'Vl10 cannot see that the narrow and partial theology
of the times, is opposed to the character of God and the
principles of Hjs government, as revealed in Nature ?
The systems of men which limit the illimitable good-
ness of God, and confine the choisest of heaven's
blessings to the few, owe their origin to the blindness
and selfishness of man. They rob the Great Central
Spirit of all that is supremely excellent in His nature.
They darken the brightness of His ineffable glory,
and ascribe to Him a character black as the deep
shadows of Erebus! But in the works of creation-
in the Universe-1Ye behold Him in His beauty and
majesty.
" He sits enthroned amidst the spheres,
And glory, like a garment, wears: '-
His wisdom and goodness are displayed in every
department of His works. " He hath made every
thing beautiful in his time." The earth and the
ivaters, the lofty summits and the green· isles of the
OF NATURE. 49
sea, are beautiful, and the heavens above are radiant
with His smile~
It matters not to what extent the Christian philoso-
pher may extend his researches, he must leave this
field unexplored, for it is one to which the mental eye
can descry no bounds. Brief and imperfect as our
discussion of this great theme has been, we cannot
but regard the argument as conclusiYe in support of
our position, that the works of Creation prove the
existence of an Infinite Intelligence, prompted by
Divine Love, and guided by unerring "\Visdom in the
production of sentient beings.
The great volume of Nature is open before us. It
contains the hand-writing of God ! He who reads its
instructive page aright, will learn that when the
delusive theories and the idle speculations of man are
swept away, the philosophy of the text will remain, _
and the sublime teachings of Nature will be under--·
stood.
" 0 may the understanding ever read
This glorious volume which thy wisdom made!
May sea and land, and earth an<l heav'n be join'd,
To bring th' Eternal Author to my mind!
* * * * *
"~en earth's in bloom, or planets proudly shine,
Adore, my heart, the majesty Divine !n
\Ve have labored (possibly with some degree of
success,) to illustrate and enforce the principle recog-
nized in the text, that the attributes of the Deity and
His disposition and purposes, may be known and
understood from the nature of His works. If our
6
50 THE WORKS OF NATURE .
examination tend to strengthen the conviction that
goodness appears in all the works and ways of God
-if we are enabled to discern more clearly the
perfection of His wisdom-if amid the storms and
conflicts of time, we can trust more fully in His
parental tenderness and love ; and finally, if we are
led to cherish a deeper gratitude to Him for His
unnumbered blessings, our labor will not have been
in vam.
To secure our individual happiness, the best inte-
rests of the race and the approbation of God, we
must seek an acquaintance with the Divine institu-
tions-study the principles of His government, and
yield obedience to His laws. Let this be the great
object of our pursuit, and the tendency of our labors
will be to hasten the happy time when the knowledge
of the Lord shall cover the earth. \Vhen from the
distant isles-from the ocean's waves-from every
hill, and valley, and mountain top-from every crea-
ture that is in heaven and on earth, and such as are
in the sea, shall go up the everlasting anthem of His
praise.
DISCOURSE IV.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF GOOD AND EVIL.
" I form the light and create darkness : I make peace and create evil : I
the Lord do all these things."-lsA.IAH XLV. 7.
THE ancient religion of Persia, and other Oriental
na6ons, maintained the existence of two opposite
eternal principles-Good and Evil. Light was deemed
the most appropriate symbol of the good principle or
Deity, and hence he was worshipped by fire: whereas,
Darkness was viewed as.. the proper representative of
evil. From these t\vo co-eternal and independent
causes, all things were supposed to emanate. This
system was modified, and perhaps essentially im-
proved, by Zoroaster, who taught the supr_
emacy of
one independent Being, and the existence of two
subordinate deities-one the Angel of Light and
Goodness, and the other of all Darkness and Evil.
One of these antagonist powers ·was supposed to
preside over the region of Light and Happiness, and
the other over the realm of Darkness and l\Iisery.
These "\Vere represented as engaged in a perpetual
struggle for the mastery, without, perhaps, the certain
prospect that either would effectually subdue the other.
According to this system, man 'vas left to yield to the
62 THE PHILOSOPHY OF
direction and submit to the government of either one
or the other of these principles. Those who followed
the Good, were to be blessed with perpetual enjoy·
ment in the world of Light-while the votaries of the
opposite principle were destined to remain under the
dominion of Evil ; and as a certain consequence to be
miserable forever. It appears that the philosophers
who were converted from the religion of Zoroaster to
Christianity, attempted, with some degree of success,
to blend the two systems into one. Thus the religion
of Jesus Christ was rendered corrupt, by those who
had been indoctrinated in the schools of the Magi.
In the text, there is a manifest allusion to the
Oriental Philosophy. The idea of two independent
causes, engaged in the production of good and evil,
is expressly denied. God asserts His absolute supre·
macy, and declares by His prophet, that He is the sole
Creator of all.
There can be but one Great First Cause of all
things. The very idea of a Supreme Being forbids
the existence of any other power, which is not inferior
to, and dependant upon, His own. The supreme
power is the highest power. It admits no equal, but
controls and governs all others. All agree in ascribing
infinite power to God. If He is indeed Omnipotent,
it must follow of necessity, that no other being in
the Universe can possess this power. Omnipotency
is power without limitation, and can only be ascribed
to the Supreme Deity. But if we admit the possibility
GOOD .\ND EVIL. 53
of an opposite principle or power, possessing an inde·
pendent existence, 'vith the ability tp oppose the
authority and to defeat the purpo_ses of Jehovah, then,
as we fix a limit to the power of God, we deny this
essential attribute of His nature.
If two powers or principles were exactly equal, it
would be improper to say that one .was greater or
higher than the other. That which admits of no equal,
which is superior to all others, and that only, is the
supreme power. If God is the Great First Cause,
then this independent po,..:er must belong to Him. It
follows, therefore, that every other power in the
Universe-all other beings and principles, must derive
their existence from Him, and be subject to His
control. Thus we trace all things to the same original
cause; and we say with Dr. Clarke, "that those
powers whom the Persians held to be the original
authors of good and evil to mankind, representing
them by Light and Darkness, as their proper emblems,
are no other than creatures of God, the instruments
which He employs in His government of the world,
ordained or permitted by Him in order to execute His
wise and just decrees; and there is no power, either
of good or evil, independent of the one Supreme
God, infinite in power and in goodness." 1
God
Himself (the prophet being the witness,) has sane·
tioned this doctrine, and it is taught in the most
s~gnificant terms in the language of the text. "·I
~· Commentary on the text.,
6!"
54 THE PHILOSOPHY OF
form the light and create darkness; I make peac·e
and create evil; I the Lord do all these things."
'Ve are now to inquire into the nature of Good and
Evil, and from these to argue the result of the Divine
government and the destiny of man.
Jesus said, " there is none good but one, that is
God." The goodness of God may be defined to be
that essential excellence of His nature which consists
in the infinite perfection of all His attributes. This
is peculiar to the Supreme Being, and must be eternal
as the Di\rine existence. If goodness belong essen-
tially to God, and if all His attributes and perfections
are infinite and eternal, it is certain that He will, in
the end, overcome and remove everything inconsistent
with His own nature.
But while Good in the highest possible sense ap-
pertains to the being of God, Evil is, and must of
necessity be restricted to inferior natures. It does not
affect the Divine Being ;-it cannot mar the beauty
and harmony of His nature, or tarnish the glory of
His name. It is certain, therefore, that nothing which
we denominate Evil, can possibly exist in God. On
the contrary, Evil of every name and form, is only an
imperfect condition of His creatures. Evil is either
natural or moral. Natural evil is an imperfect natural
condition. Moral evil is an imperfect moral condition.
Or in other words, moral evil implies that imperfect
condition of man in which His volitions and His
actions are opposed to the Divine requirements..
GOOD AND EVIL.
I would be distinctly understood m the premises.
'Vhen I speak of Good and E\ril in contradistinction,
I mean by the one a positive principle, which, from its
Divine origin, must be strictly eternal. By the other,
(i. e., Evil,) I understand a peculiar condition, which,
from its very nature, must be temporary. If this
definition be correct, you perceive that the difference
between good and evil is not restricted to moral
qualities ; but while one is an indestructible and
immutable principle, the other is a mere condition,
susceptible of modification, and may be wholly re-
moved or destroyed. The first proposition may be
definitely stated thus :-Good, in the most exalted
sense, is not an effect, but a cause. It does not,
therefore, consist in kind words, actions or disposi-
tions, but it is the Divine principle-the ivisible Spirit,
of which these are the external manifestations. This
peculiar excellence is of God, and will exist forever,
because His nature is eternal. This must be suffi-
ciently evident. The second proposition relates to
the nature of evil, and will require farther elucidation.
'Ve will first endeavor to account for the existence of
Evil, natural and moral, and· then proceed to a more
particular illustration of its nature. Here it may be
necessary to make another distinction, and to speak
of what we may denominate the Evil of Imperfection.
Absolute perfection is the peculiar characteristic of
Deity. No being can be absolutely perfect that does
not possess an independent existence.. Man does not.
56 THE PHILOSOPHY OF
exist of himself. His being and all his faculties are
derived from another. He is therefore dependent,
and consequently imperfect. It is true, we sometimes
speak of men and frequently of inanimate objects, as
being perfect; but the term, when thus applied, is
always used in a relative sense. One of a species
may be distinguished for superior qualities; another
may be greatly inferior-comparing one 'vith the
other, this term may be applied. But to say that a
creature may possess absolute perfection, involves a
contradiction. It is virtually assuming that one may
be created, and yet self-existent-that he may derive
all the powers of his being from another, and at the
same time be independent, which is impossible. It is
not in the power of the Creator to produce such a
being, for the plain and obvious reason, that no one
can possess the powers and attributes of both the
finite and the Infinite. 'Ve ascribe infinite power to
Jehovah ; but 've are not to understand that he can
do that which is contrary to Himself, or incompatible
with the principles of His government. For example,
God cannot do wrong, because this would be opposed
to His nature. He cannot invest one of His earthly
creatures with His own attributes, in all their original
greatness and glory, because this is impossible in the
nature of things. We conclude, therefore, that the
most perfect man on earth is, from the constitution of
his nature, separated by an infinite distance from that
absolute perfection which we ascribe alone to God.
GOOD AND EVIL. f>7
Thus we s'ee that man was originally and necessarily
imperfect. Imperfection is an evil-and as it is an
essential characteristic of created being, it follows
that this form of Evil must exist, or there could be
no creation.
We are now to speak briefly, of the origin of moral
evil. On a subject which has so long engaged the
attention of the christian philosopher, it becomes every
man to be modest in the expression of his opinion.
We must, however, speak with that confidence which
springs from an honest conviction.
We have had occasion to observe, that absolute
perfection, is the great characteristic of the Divine
Being-that the creature 'vas, of necessity, imperfect
from the beginning. Man was therefore liable to fall
from his integrity, in consequence of this original
imperfection of his nature. It can hardly be necessary
to argue this point for a single moment. Indeed, the
simple fact that man is a transgressor, proves his
original liability to sin. The evidence of the truth
of this position may be drawn from the present con·
dition of the whole race. Every sinner on earth, is
a living witness, that man was not originally free
from all tendency to evil-that the evil of imperfection
existed in, and was inseparable from his nature. In
a comprehensive sense, Evil is any derangement in
the general economy. Its distinctirn character is to
be determined by the immediate cause that operates
in its production. \Vhen pain or temporary de-
rangement is the result of natural causes, it is termed
58 THE PHILOSOPHY OF .
natural Evil. If it proceed from wrong volitions, it
is moral Evil. These are closely identified, and both
are consequent upon the original Evil of imperfection.
There are many cases in \vhich the connection between
natural and moral Evil is plainly discernible. The
pain occasioned by hunger, thirst and cold, is included
in the train of natural Evils. This may prompt an
individual to take unlawful possession of his neighbor's
goods, and appropriate them to his own use. Thus
the existence, or the apprehension of natural Evil,
may lead to actual transgression, which is moral Evil.
'Ve may therefore conclude that all Evil, whether
natural or moral, is the legitimate consequence of
that original imperfection, which was inseparable
from the nature of man. While we view it as the
immediate result of second causes, we must of neces-
sity, trace the whole vast chain of causation, and the
entire system of things, to one original and independent
cause-even to Gon. He is the sovereign Author of all
things-of Good and Evil-of the darkness which is
the habit~tion of His throne ; and the light that 1s
inaccessible, and full of glory. This conclusion is
confirmed by the high sanction of His word.
"I am JEHOVAH, and none else,
Forming light, and creating darkness;
Making peace, and creating evil :
I JEHOVAH am the Author of all these things."2
Evil, natural or moral, considered as an end, would
2. Dr. Clark's translation. See Commentary.
GOOD AND EVIL. 59
furnish an objection to the Divine goodness. But if
it be necessarily temporary and restricted to the sphere
of our present existence, it may be overruled for wise
and benevolent purposes. \Ve should remember that
with reference to man, the present existence is not
the ultimate design. That remains to be developed
in the future. Could we comprehend the whole plan
of the DiYine government, we should find it in har..
mony with the infinite wisdom and beneYolence of
God. \Ve should trace each dark and bending line
to the great centre of His love. See Him bringing
light out of darkness :
" Out of seeming evil, still educing good,
And better still: in infinite progression.:'
Having spoken of the origin of Evil, we will now
proceed to a further illustration of its nature. Let
the proposition be distinctly unders;tood. \Vhen we
speak of Good and Evil, we intend by one a Divine
principle which, from its nature, must exist forever.
The other term we employ, not to represent an
opposite principle, but mer~ly the absence of the first.
It implies only a negative state, or an imperfect con..
dition, 1vhich, in the nature of things, must come to
an end. The correctness of this position will be
evident on a moment's reflection. Good, in the
highest possible sense, is not a condition of man-it
is the nature of God. It is not a peculiar state of a
moral agent with reference to the Divine requirements
-but it is an eternal principle-it is not an effect,
which is seen only in the earth-
· in this little corner
60 THE PHILOSOPHY OF
of the Universe, but it is the GREAT FmsT CAUSE,
and it exists through all space and in all worlds.
Evil, is only an effect produced by the operation of
secondary causes. It does not exist in God. It is not
n constituent principle or element of His Nature;
but only an imperfect condition of His creatures.
'Vith this view of the nature of Good and ·Evil, it
can hardly be a question with a rational man, which
of the two will triumph. One is of God-it fills
immensity and must exist forever. The other apper-
tains to man and is circumscribed by the narrow
t::phere of his present existence. One contains that
which is essential to perpetuity of being, while the
other is in its nature, self-destructive. The idea that
evil contains the elements of its o'vn destruction m.g.y
require further elucidation. The arguments and
illustrations which might be employed in the discus-
sion of this point, are numerous and conclusive. The
subversion of governments and the fall of empires,
kingdoms and states, furnish many striking lJroofs of
the self-destructive power of Evil. The voice of
History and the lessons of experience prove that the
national existence can never long survive the national
virtue. 'Vhen the powers of government are made
subservient to a corrupt and unhallowed ambition, the
sceptre is easily broken. 'Vhen a moral poison is
transfused through every vein and artery of the great
heart, and corruption like an insiduous disease fastens
upon the vitals of the nation ; thPn, when the evil
has gained its greatest magnitude, it is invariably
GOOD AND EVIL. 61
lestroyed by the dissolution of the system. If the
government be corrupt, it will-it must-be dissolved,
and thus the corruptions of the system end with the
system itself.
It must be eYident, that while these evils waste
the energies of a people and destroy the nation, they
have also a self-destructive power. Tne national evils
can exist no longer than the nation. They perish
together, and are buried in a common sepulchre.
\Ve have discovered a law which is by no means
restricted to the political world. \Ve may trace its
operations in the empire of Nature. If the germ of
the plant be defective, it will s_peedily wither and
die. When the vine is no longer beautiful and
fruitful by reason of the omniverous worm at its root,
it is decomposed, and enters into other and more
perfect forms of vegetable life. If the mountain oak
be unsound, it will fall-the progress of dissolution
may be slow, but just in proportion as the evil
prevails, the elements which sustain it are diminished..
\Vhen the whole is resolved into its original elements,
the work of decay is of necessity arrested-the pre·
existing evil is at an end, and new forms of Jife and
beauty spring up out of the dust.
If we turn our attention to the animal kingdom, we
shall find additional confirmation of the truth of ou.r
pos1t10n. The proofs of the self-destructive nature
of Evil, which may be drawn from this source, are
if possible, more convincing than those alreaJy
noticed. Let us briefly consider some of these ~ -
7
62 THE PHILOSOPHY OF
The want of food may occasion severe pain. This
pain is an evil, but it can only exist for a very brief
period. If not otherwise relieved, it will soon termi-
nate in the dissolution of the body. Thus the evil
destroys itself. Extreme heat and cold produce
suffering. vVhen pain is the result of these, or
indeed of any other natural cause, it is termed natural
evil. It is true that pain, in itself considered, is
always an evil ; yet it is easy to see that in these
and all similar cases, it is employed for a benevolent
purpose. Man, when deprived of sufficient sustenance,
exposed to the frost, the fire, and the various forms of
disease to which the human system is liable, would
be utterly incapable of self-preservation. But pain,
like a trusty sentinel, gives the alarm at the approach
of the enemy. It never ceases to warn us of the
danger while there is a hope of escape. ..When it is
no longer possible to resist the foe, it destroys the
citadel, and dies amid the ruins. The pain occa-
sioned by the ravages of disease, when not alleviated
by remedial agents, is usually of short continuance.
When the evil becomes intolerable, it ends in the
destruction of the vital principle. When life is ex·
tinct, there can be no more pain ; hence the evil is
effectually destroyed. When the animal economy is
injured beyond the possibility of recovery, death comes
to put an end to the evil, by a dissolution of the
system. Whether from accident, disease or the in-
firmities of age, the organic structure is rendered too
imperfect to answer a benevolent design, it is reduced
GOOD AND EVIL. 63
to its constituent elements. This is certainly a wise
and merciful arrangement. The evil destroys itself,
and removes the bodies that are diseased and muti-
lated, only to repeople the earth with forms of youth
and beauty.
Not only is natural evil self-destructive ; but every
modification of evil of which it is possible to conceive,
tends to the same ultimate. The difference between
natural and moral evils is confined to the separate
causes which operate in their production. In their
nature and effects, they are substantially the same.
They all have their origin and their end in the earth,
and in no case can they extend beyond the bounds of
time, or survive the present constitution of things.
Thus we see that Evil invariably carries with it, a
self-destructive power. If the body of earth be de-
stroyed; it is that we may inherit the immortal-it
terminates the present imperfect mode of being, only
that we may enter on a higher life and a more exalted
destiny.
These views of the nature of Good and Evil, leave
no room to doubt the final issue, as it relates to the
destiny of man. "\Vhile one is the GREAT PosITIVE
PRINCIPLE from which all things proceed, and to which
they are all tending at last, the other is a mere condi-
tion of some of those things in the incipient stages of
their progress, when not sufficiently unfolded to disclose
the ultimate design. The objects to which we ascribe
Evil, \Vill in their progressive development, arrive at
a more perfect condition, in which this characteristic
64 THE PHILOSOPHY OF GOOD AND EVIL.
will no longer exist. Evil, then, is only that condition
of things, in which the good is not yet perceptible.
It is the absence of that higher excellence, which is
not only to pervade the Universe, but to exalt and
dignify every child of God. As in the natural world
darkness· is merely the absence of light ; so in this
case-moral darkness, or Evil, is only the absence of
that higher light which reveals the perfections of God
and the deep things of the Spirit. When the light
of the sun is diffused abroad over the face of creation,
the shadows of night are no longer perceptible ; even
so, when the superior light of the spiritual world shall
shine every where, and in all hearts-when God shall
" be all in all,"3
moral darkness, or evil, will no longer
exist. Let it be remembered, that GOOD is the per-
fection of Deity-that which is evil is the present
imperfection of His creatures. God is essentially
eternal in all His attributes and perfections, while all
that pertains to the present condition of man is
transient and momentary. As, therefore, the unalter-
able nature of Jehovah will outlive the fleeting forms
and phases of earthly being; so true it is, that Good
will triumph over Evil.
As the good is destined to prevail-to be all in all
-it follows, of necessity, that the darkness and slavery
of evil will be brought to a final close ; and the
creation will be delivered into ~he glorious light and
"liberty of the children of God."
3. I Cor. xv. 2$..
DISCOURSE V.
THE CONSTITUTION OF MAN.
" \Vhat is man ?"-PsALMs VIII. 4.
IF 've adopt the sentiment, that the proper study of
mankind is Man, we may venture to hope that the
present inquiry will be interesting and profitable.
\Vhen we endeavor to conceive of the majesty and
glory of God-when we consider the magnitude and·
sublimity of His works, and look at Nature in her
most stupendous operations, we are startled with a
sense of our own insignificance, and almost fear that
we shall be lost amid the immensity of Creation !
The Psalmist felt his own littleness when engaged in
these sublime contemplations ; and surely every one
who has a mind thus employed, must sympathise with
the Hebrew poet, in the sentiment he has so beauti-
fully expressed:-" \Vhen I consider thy heavens, the
work of thy fingers; the moon and the stars that thou
hast ordained; what is man, that thou art mindful
of him 1 and the son of man, that thou visitest
him 1" It is true that man, with all his boasted
powers, is, from the comparative insignificance of his
nature, lost when we contemplate the DiYine majesty
7G
CONSTITUTION'
and glory, yet ·we have no reason to fear that we shall
be. overlooked amid the immensity of the Creator's
\vorks. If we remember that God is essentially pre-
sent in all places-that His Omniscience enables Him
to discern and comprehend all things, the minute and
feeble, as well as the great and the mighty, we shall
banish the unwelcome thought, that man can be neg-
lected or forgotten by the Author of his being.
It is a pleasing reflection that God is mindful of all
His creatures-that His watchful care and supervision
extends to everything He has made-the small as well
as the great-the meanest no less than the noblest-
are the objects of His benevolent regard, and the
constant recipients of His blessing. He hears the
young ravens when they cry. He feeds the fowls of
the air, and not even a sparrow falleth to the ground
without His knowledge. He maketh the lilies more
beautiful than regal vestments ; and " if God so
clothe the grass of the field"-if every tender plant
and fragrant flower,
" Is born beneath His kindling eye/'
surely, man will be remembered. God will be gra-
cious and crown him with a higher life and a glory
that fadeth not away. This assurance is sufficient to
suppress every doubt and fear, and to awaken in the
heart a grateful sense of the infinite condescension
of Jehovah. If God be mindful of His earthly
children, He will not suffer them to wander forever..
He will lead them home to Himself. As the father
w.ent out to meet the prodigal, when he was yet a.
OF l\IAN•.
great way off, so our lfeavenly Father will not 'vait
for His children to return_
; though far away, he will
remember them in mercy, and visit them with the
tokens of His love.
We are now to consider the Nature of lVIan-the
expansive powers of the human mi_
nd, and his capa-
city to receive an enlarged and ever-increasing
measure of knowledge and happiness ; and from these
we are to argue his exalted and glorious destiny.
The universal desire of man, that hope which
springs immortal in the human breast, we must
regard as presumptive evidence of the life to come~.
This is by no means peculiar to the enlightened'
Christian worshipper. The heathen nations and the
savage tribes of the earth cherish this desire. Indeed~
so universal is this earnest expectation of the spirit,
that we may view it as an inherent characteristic of
man-as a law of his nature, written by the finger of
God in the human heart. The pure desires and the
immortal hopes which spring up and flourish in the
soul, are not to be satisfied 'v:ith the world and its
grosser elements. lVIan requires sometliing more and·
better than these. His temporal wants may all be·
gratified. He may be deeply versed in the wisdom
of the world. He may be loved and honored, and
surrounded by all the pleasures which wealth, and
power, and royalty, can bestow ; but he is still look-
ing forward to some more enduring good-to a higher
life-to immortality! What is t1iis but the voice of
God speaking from the iimer sanctuary of the heart '?
CONSTITUTION
" 'Tis the Divinity that stirs within us ;
'Tis heaven itself that points out an hereafter,
.And intimates eternity to man."
It is worthy of remark, that the Creator has made
an ample provision for the numerous wants of all His
creatures. This is true in its application to the whole
animal creation. Though the earth, the air and the
waters, are all full of life, yet for every living thing
there is a suitable provision. Indeed, if you were to
follow the chain of being from man down to the
meanest insect that creeps on the er.rth, you would
not find a single exception to this wise and benevolent
arrangement. The wants of all are known to God ;
and for every desire, He has implanted in the nature
of His creatures, He has provided a full and sufficient
satisfaction. This is very plainly expressed by the
Psalmist:-" The Lord is good to all ; .... the eyes
of all 'vait upon thee; and thou' givest them their
meat in due season. Thou openest thine hand, and
satisfiest the desire of every living thing." If the
desire we so fondly cherish-the pleasing hope to
which we cling, even to the last moment of mortal
being, is to be regarded as presumptive evidence of
a future life ; we cannot deny that it is in favor of a
happy immortality for the whole race. If we admit
the validity of the argument, as derived from this
source, we must adopt the conclusion. The desire to
live is not more universal, than the desire to be happy.
We only hope to exist hereafter, because we believe
that the future life will be one of rest and joy..
OF MAN. 69
But we may arrive at the truth in this matter, by
a course of reasoning, which if not absolutely infal-
lible is, at least, sufficiently convincing, to satisfy the
mind. If God be mindful of our present condition-
if, so far as we are enabled to pursue the examination,
there is an ample provision for all the wants of all
His earthly creatures, the evidence is conclusive, and
we may deduce the universal truth, from the numerous
examples that lie within the sphere of our abservation..
Now, if you can find a single instance: where there
is no provision for the wants of the creature ; this
will render the argument unsound.. But it is impos=-
sible to find such an example. There is not one ·in
all animated nature. The provisions God has made;
are as extensive and multifarious as the number
and nature, and the diversified wants and circumstan-
ces of His creatures. As there are no exceptions
to this wise and merciful arrangement ; it follows,
that the argument, in its application to man, is
conclusive. God has made an ample provision for all
the wants of inferior natures. Here we discover a
rule of action in the Divine economy which, so far as
our knowledge extends, h~s all the force of an inva-
riable law. It is, therefore, safe to conclude, that since
He has been mindful of every other want, He will
not disappoint the earnest expectation of the spirit..
He will remember Man. The highest and the holiest
desire of the noblest of His earthly creatures, will be
satisfied with the glory that shall be revealed.
But we may argue the higher dignity and glory
70: CONSTITUTION
of man, from his progressive nature. The law or
progress is not restricted to man; nor, indeed, to
animated existence. \Ve may trace its operations far
and wide throughout the empire of Nature. Espe·
cially is it discernible in the growth and development of
organic bodies. The seed does not become a plant, nor
the embryo a perfectly organiz~d being, in a moment.
It is by a prog.ress almost imperceptible, that the acorn
becomes an oak ; and by a. process not less gradual,.
Nature unfolds the animal economy. Intimately con·
nected with this idea of progress, is the fact that
through the operations of this law, that which is
imperfect is brought to perfection. This is true of the
various products of the vegetable world. The mouni-
tain oak that has braved the fury of many a wintry
blast-that is vigorous from length of years, at last
arrives at its maturity. The grain springs forth from
the earth in its season, and when harvest comes on
it is fit for the reapers. The same is true of the
animal creation. The lower order of animals arrive
at the highest degree of perfection of which their
nature is susceptible. In a few years, at most, they
reach the point beyond which all efforts to improve
their instinctive faculties are utterly abortive. '\Vere
it possible to prolong life for a thousand years, with
the same organism, there would be no advancement,
because they are essentially incapable of further
progression. ,,.
But the progress of man is not thus limited. It is
true that the animal nature arrives at its maturity, and
'OF MAN. 71
like other organie bodies, is subject to decay and
dissolution. But an endless life and an imperishable
glory are the inheritance of the spirit. We need not
stop to prove that the higher nature of man is pro-
gressive. This is sufficiently evident already. You
have only to consider him in his childhood and his
manhood, and reflect a moment upon his mighty
achievements. Think of Sir Isaac Newton in the
infancy of his being. Again, conceive of him a few
years after, when he was prepared to explore the
great arcana of Nature, and to solve her profoundest
problems. Follow him from his cradle to the lofty
eminence where the shadows of oblivion never fall.
This is only the first stage of his progress. It is but
the beginning of that interminable career in which
man is destined to equal the_angels in their glory.
\Ve have had occasion to observe, that through the
operations of this law, that which is imperfect is
brought to comparative perfection. Everything in its
order moves on toward the maturity of its being-to
the most perfect state of which its nature is suscepti-
ble. All inferior creatures soon reach this final
condition. But in the present mode of being, man
can only enter upon the career that is before him.
The ultimatum of his progress is far away in the
sublime distance of infinitude. He may comprehend
the laws that govern the Universe, and explain the
various phenomena of Nature. He may measure the
distances and calculate the solid contents of other
CONSTITUTION
worlds. Imagine him, if you please, to possess a
knowledge of all arts, sciences and languages. He
would then only be prepared for still higher attain-
ments. The spirit 'vould find some region unexplored.
l\'.Ian would still be far from the perfection of his
nature. To say that his higher faculties will never
be properly exercised and developed, is virtually to
deny the progressive nature of man, and repudiate
the whole argument derived from reason and analogy..
If eve;_·y other creature is rendered complete according
to its nature, the general truth is sufficiently estab-
lished, and we may safely infer that man will go on
to perfection. If you are not prepared to sanction this
oonclusion, you must prove that man is an exception
to the general law. If the doctrine of progress is
admitted to be true, the result as it relates to the
destiny of man must be inevitable. He may be
imperfect and sinful at present, but he will, he must,
from the very constitution of his nature, advance to a
more perfect condition. It is very certain that man,
in his present state, is a progressive being. The
development of the faculties is always gradual, and
truth is unfolded by degrees, in proportion as he is
prepared to receive it. There is not the slightest
reason to suppose that the transition to another state,
which takes place at death, will disturb this essential
constitution. The dissolution of the body will but
destroy the inclination to evil, and separate Man from
those influences, which now render his progress slow
'OF MAN. 73
and difficult. "\Vhen these obstacles, the world and
the flesh are removed ; there will be nothing to
counteract the moral momentum, and man will, of
necessity, go on with accelerated progress, to higher,
and still higher degrees of perfection ; even reaching
forward, and mounting upward, to the more excellent
glory.
Now, I only ask you to admit what no one can
rationally deny; that from the very constitution of
his nature, man is, here and hereafter, a progressive
being. If this be denied, it remains to be proved,
that the destruction of the body will entirely reverse
the laws that govern the development -0f the human
spmt. If you acknowledge this idea of progression,
you must also admit the conclusion, to which it
inevjtably leads-the future exaltation and the immortal
happiness of man. If lVIan, by a law of his nature,
is to continue his progress in the future life, he will
oortainly arrive at a more perfect condition; because,
oomparative perfection is the natural result of pro-
gression. Thus, by a course of analogical and
inductive reasoning, as convincing as it is natural and_
philosophical, we are led to the conclusion that the
ultimate destiny of Man will be one of glory, honor,
and immortality.
The present imperfection of man is no objection to
the argument, because he is not always to remain in
his present condition; or, to continue forever precisely
what he is at any particular stage of his progress.
He is ever onward toward the perfection of his being.
8
74 CONSTITUTION
The lessons of Nature, are beautiful as they are
instructive. Go out into the fields in the spring time,
when the grain is beginning to vegetate-only a
tender blade is seen. The dews of heaven descend
upon it. The sun warms it into more abundant and
enlarged life ; and when the proper season arrives,
the fields are white already for the harvest. Now to
form a judgment from the feeble beginnings of vegeta-
ble life ; to decide that there will be no harvest-
that the grain will never be fitted for the garner, is
not more unreasonable and absurd than to say, that
because man is now imperfect, he will not go on to
perfection, and thus be prepared for happiness and
heaven. ~
It is important to remember, that the present condition
of things may be very different from the ultirnate
design. I have seen the rose, when only the thorn
appeared. The careless traveller \Vas wounded as
he passed that way. When I saw it again, there was
a sweet flower, that loaded the passing breeze with its
precious odors. I love to think it is so with man.
That what is most beautiful in his nature is not, at
present, discernible. It is not yet unfolded to the
view ; or, to use the language of an apostle, " it doth
not yet appear what we shall be." Man may n;w
appear to be a thorn in the moral vineyard; yet there
is, in his nature, a germ that is destined to unfold
itself in a more genial clime. As the plant must
necessarily pass through the successive stages of
previous development, before it blossoms in the sun
OF l\IAN. 75
light ; so the interior faculties of the spmt must be
progressively unfolded, until the soul blooms in the
garden of God, filling the atmosphere with immortal
fragrance!
The next ground of argument, which I propose for
your consideration, is the perfect adaptation of every
creature to its appropriate sphere. The reptile crawls
on the surface, or in the bosom of the earth-the beast
is found among the hills and valleys, and the dark
solitudes of the wilderness-the bird wings its way
through the upper air, and the fish sports in the liquid
element. Each of these, and every living thing, is
wisely adapted to the element in which it lives, and
to all the circumstances of its being. The same
wisdom and benevolence is manifest in the creation
of man. Nothing can be more admirable, than the
perfect adaptation of his physical nature, to the sphere
of his present existence, and the circumstances of his
outward condition.
But man has a spiritual nature ; this is adapted to
a higher sphere. To complete the chain of being,
and bring heaven and earth into fellowship, it became
necessary that one should exist, in whom the earthly
and the spiritual natures might be united. l\Tan is
that being; he is the connecting link between earth and
heaven. The temporal and the eternal-the material
and the spiritual, meet and centre in him ; and there
is one unbroken chain of being, from man down to
the little insect that flits away the brief moment of
its existence on the earth; and far away, upward, to
76 CONSTITUTION
the highest seraph before the throne of God. Such
is lVIan-the creature of a moment, and yet destined
to an endless life-an animal, yet an ANGEL! This
idea of man is beautifully expressed in the language
of the Russian Poet, in his address to the Deity.
"Thou art! directing: guiding all, thou art!
Direct my understanding, then, to thee;
Control my spirit, guide my wandering heart :
Though but an atom midst immensity,
Still I am something, fashioned by thy hand!
I hold a middle rank 'twixt heaven and earth,
On the last verge of mortal being stand,
Close to the realms where angels have their birth,
Just on the boundaries of the Spirit-land!
" The chain of being is complete in me;
In me is matter's last gradation lost,
And the next step is Spirit-Deity!
I can command the lightning, and am dust!
A monarch and a slave; a worm, a god!"
The organic structure of man is not more perfectly
adapted to the earth, than is the spiritual nature to a
higher world. These bodies, much as we prize them,
are only the fleeting forms of life. The invisible
spirit that animates the clod, is the Divine reality.
This is not confined to earth-the Universe is its
dwelling place ! Chains and dungeons cannot bind
it. It is free as the wind, that bloweth where it
listeth. It is here-it is there-it is yonder-it is-
gone ! The Spirit that quickens that mass of clay-
that which has power to think-to reason and investi-
gate, may quick as thought, visit the four quarters of
the earth. It is here in this ea:rthly sanctuary. The
next moment it is among the stars ! and anon, like
OF MAN. 77
the angel in the vision, it descends to stand on the
sea and the land ! Surely, the spirit is not adapted
to the earth and its passing forms and shadows. It
claims a more exalted and glorious destiny. It belongs
to the heavenly world, and when this earthly mission
is ended, will seek its appropriate s.phere.
It is worthy of lasting remembrance, that nothing
short of immortal life and happiness for all, will
satisfy the best desires and the holiest aspirations of
the soul. I conclude, therefore, ·that such a state is
exactly adapted to the spiritual nature of man. That
which will satisfy the natural desires, must be suited
to the nature. If God has made a full provision for
all the wants of all His creatures-if He has prepared
a suitable sphere for every being, and a being for
every sphere, so as to preserve the essential harmony
of His creation, the conclusion is inevitable, and there
is a higher life for man.
Finally, I observe that there is implanted in the
spiritual nature, an inherent aversion to that which is
evil ; and from this we may argue the ultimate holi-
ness and happiness of all. We have seen that the
earthly and the heavenly are united in the nature of
man. These in a certain sense are antagonistic. The
inclination to evil is peculiar to the animal nature.
It exists only in the flesh; while the tendency of the
spirit is heavenward. We are not disposed to claim
originality in this view of the subject, for we remem-
ber that the Apostle has the same idea:-'' This L
SH
78 CONSTITUTION
say then, walk in the spirit, and ye shall not fulfil the
lust of the flesh. For the flesh lusteth against the
spirit, and the spirit against the flesh; and these are
contrary the one to the other." 1
"For I delight in
the law of God, after the inward man; but I see
another law in my members warring against the law
of my mind, and bringing me into captivity to the law
of sin which is in my members."2
This testimony of
Paul is confirmed by universal observation and expe-
rience. The truth is rendered evident from the fact,
that whenever the spirit has the ascendency in the
government of the man, he turns away from his sins
with disgust. The very moment he begins to follow
the dictates of the inward man, his aversion to evil is
manifest. He shrinks with loathing and horror from
the guilt and contamination of sin. The mists of
darkness are left behind and beneath him forever.
He leaves in their appropriate sphere, all the mean
and beggarly elements of the world, and obedient to
a DiYine momentum, moves onward and upward.
The apostle enumerates many of the dark deeds of
which man is guilty, and he informs us that these, and
all of like character, are the works of the flesh.. He
then presents, in striking contrast, the fruits of the
Spirit, which are, " Love, joy, peace, long-suffering,
gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance."3
Now, it is manifest that so far as we follow the
teachings of the Spirit, we shall escape condem-
1. Gal. v. 16, 17. 2. Rom. vii. 22, 23. 3. Gal. v. 19-23.
OF DIAN. 79
nation. If 've listen to the voice of God speaking in
the soul-if we are governed by the pure and heavenly
desires of the inward man, 've shall advance in
knowledge and holiness-we shall live for happiness
and heaven.
I desire to enforce the idea that there is in the
spiritual man, an innate aversion to evil. The apostle
plainly intimates, that sin is not the natural element
of the soul, when he represents it as a captivity, to
which the spirit will never submit without a struggle for
its liberty. The spirit, by a law of its nature, inclin€s
to the good and the. true. Obedience to its heavenly
desires and aspirations, is freedom from sin and
condemnation. Here, again, we have the authority
of the apostle-" There is, therefore, now no con-
demnation to them which are in Christ Jesus, who
walk not after the :flesh, but after the spirit."4
From
this we draw our conclusion.. Men suffer condemnation
only because they obey the lusts of the :flesh; and
the argument of Paul is designed to show that when-
ever they cease to do evil, and the spirit asserts its
power, they are no longer subject to this condemnation..
\Ve are reminded, that the spirit alone will exist
beyond the grave. Flesh and blood cannot inherit
that world. These we leave behind, when we come
to pass the confines of the spirit land. As the flesh
cannot exist there, it follows, that no one can be influ-
enced by its unholy desires. Hence, there can be no
4. Romans viii. 1.
80 CONSTITUTION
such thing as positive misery in the world to come.
'Vhile the measure of happiness will doubtless vary
according to the capacity, all will be led by the spirit,
and may drink from the fountain of immortal joys.
Thus we have endeavored to prove from the nature
of man, that his ultimate condition will be glorious.
I may venture to hope, that the present discussion will
give us more enlarged and comprehensive views of
our own nature, and of the wisdom and goodness of
God, who maketh all things to praise Him. Well
may we suppose that God will remember man. He
has made him but " a little lower than the angels,"
and "crowned him with glory and honor."5
The
Father cannot forget the child that bears His image.
He will watch over him in all his wanderings, and a
Father's blessing will descend upon His children,
when they are far from their heavenly home.
These views of Man, of his nature and destiny,
remind us that our duties and obligations are solemn
and momentous.. It becomes us to be reverent and
thoughtful-faithful in our adherence to the right and
the true, and active in every work which God will ap-
prove and bless. Let us cherish every holy desire, and
leaving the first principles, or rudiments of the Chris-
tian faith and life, go on to higher attainments. Cease
to do evil and learn to do well. Before you con-
sent to that which is wrong-prostitute the noblest
powers God has given you to base and unholy. purposes,
5. Pslams viii. 5.
OF l\IAN. 81
will you pause and reflect a moment upon the dignity
of your own nature 1 You are but a little lower than
the angels. From your rank in the scale of being,
you are allied to the whole spiritual world-to angels
and archangels. You may even claim kindred with
God Himself, for His awful image is impressed upon
you! Then be not irreverent, profane or thoughtless.
\Valk according to the spirit. Live for truth and
virtue-for humanity and heaven. "I beseech you,
brethren, that ye present yourselves a living sacrifice,
holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable
service."
DISCOURSE VI.
THE DIVINE PATERNITY.
" Have we not all one Father ?"-i\IAL.4..CHI II. 10.
Gon is the Creator of all things, and He is as truly
the Father of all intelligent beings, as He is the
author of their existence. If He is the former of our
bodies - if this curious organism - this mysterious
union, by which humanity is allied to the Divinity, is
the effort of His wisdom, will He not regard us with
parental affection? If He has so wisely adapted the
physical nature of man to the circumstances of his
outward condition, that everything around him is made
to minister to his improvement or gratification; if he
has given us those exalted powers of thought and
feeling which qualify us for the most elevated and
refined enjoyment ; then, indeed, has He manifested
more than a parent's love. In short, if God has
made us what we are-if our minds are but the off-
spring of His Infinite Mind-if he has stamped His
own Divine Image on the powers of our inmost being,
and the vital energies of His life-giving Spirit are
essential to our continued existence, then is He, in
in the highest sense, the Father of His rational off-
84 THE DIVINE
spring. Have we not all one Father ? Do we not
derive our existence from God, with all the faculties
and gifts we possess 1 If in Him we live, and move,
and have our being, then surely the relation we
sustain to the Father of the spirits of all flesh, is of
the most endearing nature ; and this connection is
even more perfect and sacred than that which binds
earthly parents to their children.
As God is the Universal Father, it follows that all
are alike the objects of His parental care and the
recipients of His blessing. The selfish votary of the
law may deny that God is the Father of all-he may
restrict the Divine Paternity to himself and his nation
-but this will not affect the truth-it will not change
the Divine character, or destroy the high and holy
relation God will ever sustain to his creatures. We
may still claim, on the authority of the prophet, that
"though Abraham be ignorant of us, and Israel
aclmowle.dge us not, yet God is our Father and our
Redeemer.,,
If God be the Father of all, it follows of necessity,
that the existence of the relation does not in any way
depend upon the character of the creature. But it is
sometimes contended, that God is not the Father of
the wicked; that He sustains this most endearing
relation only to those who are obedient to His require-
ments ; and that all others are, from their nature and
character, the children of the devil. I remember the
words of Christ to the Jews, '' Ye are of your father
PATERNITY. 85
the devil;" but we must not understand Jesus to deny
the universal Paternity of God. He evidently intend·
ed no more than to represent the Jews, as under the
influence of those evil desires and passions, of which
the devil was the personified embodiment. They
were not, in spirit, the children of God. They did
not resemble Him in their character-His image and
likeness was not manifest in them. In these several
particulars, they might be called the children of the
devil, because they ·were subject to evil; just as
we now say, a man is the child of darkness who is
ignorant and depraved. \Vicked men may, therefore,
be called the children of the devil, the children of
darkness, and the children of destruction, to represent
the disposition and character they possess, or to indi·
cate the nature and consequences of their doings.
But we are by no means to understand from this, that
the wicked are not, in a more important sense, the
children of God. Indeed, we may as well infer that
they are not the offspring of human parents, or that
Peter and Judas were not men, because one was called
Satan, and the other a Decil. It is still true, that as
one God hath created us, so we are all His children,
and He is "Father of the spirits of allflesh."
It follows, therefore, that neither the existence or
the nature of this relation is made to depend on the
character of the creature. The prodigal son was not
without a father because he had wandered far away.
and was spending his substance in riotous .living.
g·
86 THE DIVINE
His ingratitude and waywardness could not affect the
relation. That has its existence in the nature of
things. No change of character in the moral conduct
of the child, can dissolve this connection, or for one
moment release the parent from his obligation. I
desire you to keep this point in mind. As we pro-
ceed with the illustration of the subject, I trust you
will not lose sight of the nature of this relation. The
child may wander far away from his father's house
-he may close his ears to the voice of admonition,
that calls to him in the mild accents of parental ten-
derness and affection. His deep ingratitude and de-
generacy may fill the parent's heart 'vith anguish, but
still this most interesting relation remains unchanged.
That \Yay·ward boy has still a father, though he may
reject his counsels and deny his name. . Now we
have "all one Father," for our God hath created us.
He has made all nations of men that d\vell on the
earth, and determined the bounds of their habitation.
For this reason He is the Father of all, irrespective
of their character or condition.
That God is the universal Father, is confirmed by
the plain and positive teachings of His word. 'Vhen
Christ came to instruct the people, He taught them
to know and to reverence God as their Father-to
approach Him with filial confidence and affection, and
to call Him by that endearing name. '' After this
manner, therefore, pray ye: Our Father which art in
heaven." That sinners were thus to address the
Most Holy One, is rendered certain by further refer-
PATERNITY. 87
ence to our Lord's prayer, in which He instructs them
to pray for forgiveness of sins. But the interrogatory
of the text has a direct and unequivocal answer in the
language of the apostle to the Ephesians :-" THERE
1s ONE GoD AND FATHER oF ALL, wHo 1s ABOVE ALL,
AND THROUGH ALL, AND IN ALL."
We may, then, consider this point established. In-
asmuch as we all derive our existence from the same
Divine Original, so we have all one Father. God,
the great source of all life and being, and the "Father
of the spirits of all flesh," does, and ever will, con-
tinue to sustain this relation to all His intelligent
creation.
Having shown that God is the universal Father,
and that no possible circumstances or changes in the
moral state and condition of His children, can affect
His paternal character ; we may now speak of the
duties and obligations which belong to, and are inse-
parable from the nature of this relation.
And first, I observe, it is the duty of the parent to
make a suitable provision for the necessities of his
child. He must not only provide for all his temporal
wants, but it is his especial business to see that those
things which are essential to the health and life of his
offspring are wisely employed. The child may be igno-
rant of his real necessities, or he may be wanting in the
ability or the disposition to make a judicious improve-
ment of these blessings. The superior wisdom of the
parent must provide for this or any other possible
contingency that may arise. Nothing short of this
S8 THE DIVINE
would be deemed a full discharge of the duty and
obligation which binds the parent to provide for his
own. The child may be of a perverse and reckless
disposition, but this will not release the parent from
his obligation. His duty is not made to depend upon
the disposition and character of the child, but it
necessarily belongs to the nature of that relation which
neither time nor circumstances can destroy.
God sustains this most endearing relation to all his
intelligent creatures. He is not only the "Father of
the spirits of all flesh,'' but He has made an ample
provision for all the spiritual wants of His great
family. Not one has been neglected. There are
fountains of life and joy-there are well-springs of
hope and salvation alike for every child of God. In
the fulness of His love, He has remembered the weak
and the unworthy. He has not left us without the
strong evidence that He is kind to the evil and the
unthankful, in that "He maketh His sun to rise on
the evil and on the good, and sendeth rain on the
just and the unjust. You will observe that the be-
stowment of these blessings is never made to depend
upon the worthiness of those who receive them.
Besides, it is worthy of remark, that in the end, they
always accomplish the benevolent design of the Giver.
' Vhatever may be the character of the husbandman,
one thing is certain-the dews and shmvers never fail
to moisten and fertilize the fields, rendering them
beautiful and fruitful. So shall it be with the spiritual
blessings which God in His mercy will shower down
PATERNITY. 89
upon His disobedient and ungrateful children. As
the rain that cometh down from heaven will not
immediately restore the burning desert-as a single
shower will not cover the barren waste with fruits
and flowers-so the Divine word, distilling like the
dew, or descending as the small rain and the refresh-
ing showers, may not at once restore the desert of the
heart, and clothe the moral wilderness with new life
and beauty. Yet these spiritual blessings are not be-
stowed in vain. The benevolent purpose of God will
be accomplished, for He has declared by the mouth of
His prophet, that "As the rain cometh down from
heaven, and returneth not thither, but watereth the
earth, and maketh it bring forth and bud, that it may
give seed to the sower, and bread to the eater; so
shall my word be that goeth forth out of my mouth ;
it shall not return unto me void, but it shall accom-
plish that 'vhich I please, and it shall prosper in the
thing whereunto I sent it." 1
Thus we have the plain,
positive assurance, that as the descending rains never
fail to renovate the earth and make it fruitful, so the
dews and showers of Divine grace will renew the
heart. Their genial influence will render the moral
wilderness and solitary place beautiful as the bowers
of paradise. The virtues and graces which adorn the
heart and life, will spring up and flourish like living
plants beside the still waters, bearing the fruits of
immortal peace and joy. Thus we see that our hea-
venly Father not only bestows His blessings on all
1. Isa lv. 101 11.
9r.
90 THE DIVINE'
His children, whether obedient or disobedient ;. but
He has wisely ordered that these shall be the messen-
gers of His will, to rebuke the selfishness of the
human heart, and to teach the earthly parent his duty
to his offspring.
Again, I remark, it is the duty of the parent to
love his child, and as far as possible, to shield him
from all harm. This is not merely a governing princi-
ple of human nature. The love of offspring is not
peculiar to man. It is an invariable law that extends
to, and exerts its power over the whole animal
creation. Even the vulture, the prowling wolf, and
the forest king, whose· awful voice carries terror. to
the inhabitants of the wilderness ; these, all love
their own. They are uniformly obedient to the
requirements of this law. \Vhen danger approaches,
they are ever ready to succor their young. Not one
of these will abandon its own. They are faithful to
the last, and will die in defence of their offspring.
This is a beautiful characteristic of all animated nature,
and if it :were possible for man to be so devoid of
"natural affection" as to disregard this law, he might
learn a lesson of duty from savage beasts.
But man cannot resist this common impulse of his
nature. He cannot oppose the natural operations of
this universal law. Whether in savage or civilized
society, the parent is not insensible to the eternal
obligation that binds him to love and protect his
offspring. In this case as in the other, the duty of
the parent is not dependent upon any fortuitous cir...
?.ATERNITY. 91
cumstances of disposition or character peculiar to the
child.. The obligation is forever the same, and
nothing within the sphere of human observation and
experience-no disobedience or ingratitude on the part
of the child,. however protracted and obstinate, can
ever absolve the parent from its claims.
These important duties and obligations, the father·
is bound to observe. No benevolent parent will
neglect or forget them. The child may be disobedient
and unthankful; he may despise the counsels of his
father, and turn a deaf ear to the earnest entreaties of
maternal affection. He may wander far from the ways
of wisdom, and the sweet home of innocence and love..
His very breath may cause the flowers of hope to
wither and die, and his own hand mey weave a
crown of thorns for his best friend ; yet, all this will
not separate him from the parent's love. The father
will watch over him with anxious care, and amid all
his wanderings the mother will cling to her wayward
boy. Her love does not depend upon his obedience..
It springs spontaneously from the heart-a pure flame
which the waters cannot quench, nor the floods drown..
Such is the deep and undying affection of a good
earthly parent. It is not checked by the follies ot
childhood, or the ingratitude and alienation of after-
life. The parent never waits for the child. His love·
is first manifested, and it is the last to cling to its
object. "\Vhen others pass by with cold indifference,
the parent will pause to weep over the woes of his
offspring. Others may speak to the wanderer in tones
92 THE DIVINE
of threatening and violence; but the kind father and
the anxious mother, will yet breathe in his ear the
mild accents of sympathy and affection. If the parent
is faithful to his most sacred duties and obligations,
he will never cease to love the child, and to treat him
with tenderness and compassion. When the prodi-
gal would return to his father's house, he was not
required to beg for mercy, before he could be received
into favor. The parent did not even wait the return
of his child ; "but when he was yet a great way off,
the father saw him, and had compassion, and ran, and
fell on his neck and kissed him." His love was
unchanged, and he forgot the errors and follies of his
child. The son, about to offer his humble confession,
is interrupted. The parent calls for the best robe,
and the prodigal is received with the sign of honor
and the token of affection. There is music and
gladness in the father's mansion, and all remembrance
of the past ingratitude of his child, is lost in the
excess of his present joy.2
Thus will the universal Father receive all His
wandering children. Like the prodigal, they may
tarry long in a strange landr feeding on the husks of
sin and error, yet when they return they will find the
Father's love unchanged. When far away, He will
have compassion on them. He will gladly receive
them, and their sins and their iniquities will He re-
member no more.3
2. Luke, xv. 11-32. 3. Heh. viii. 12.
PATERNITY. 93
We have a forcible and pathetic illustration of our
subject in the history of David and his rebellious son.
Absalom headed a conspiracy against the government
of Israel. For some time, he had employed every
means in his pmver to seduce the people from their
allegiance to his father. At length-, under pretence
of paying a vow, he obtained leave of the king to go
to Hebron. He then sent out his emissaries in order
to prepare the people for a general revolt. Absalom
was proclaimed king at Hebron, and thousands flocked
to his standard. David and his friends were obliged
to seek safety in flight. He, however, succeeded in
raising an army of several thousand men, and appoint-
ing the proper officers, sent them to subdue the rebels.
But here the father's loYe for his reckless child was
impressively displayed in his charge to those who
were intrusted \vith the expedition-" Deal gently
for niy sake, with the young man, even with Absalom."4
His affectionate solicitude for the safety of his son
rose superior to every other feeling. The king was
still the father. Notwithstanding the base ingratitude
and extreme degeneracy of that wayward youth, the
parent could not give him up. vVith mingled emo-
tions of tenderness and apprehension, he waited for
intelligence from the camp of Israel. When the
messengers arrived, he did not ask if the rebels were
conquered and destroyed. His anxious inquiry was
not for the security of his throne and the safety of his
4... II Sam. x.viii. 5.
94 THE DIVINE
kingdom. The all-important question with him did
not relate to the possession of the crown and the
sceptre. These were all forgotten in his anxiety for
his child:-" Is the young man ilbsalorn safe?" And
when the king heard the tidings of his fate, he was
greatly moved and went to his chamber to weep.
The victory of that day was turned into mourning,
and as David retired the people heard the voice of his
pathetic lamentation, as he exclaimed in the bitterness
of his soul, " My son Absalom ! 0 my son, my son
Absalom ! 0 that I had <lied for thee, 0 Absalom, my
son, my son !"5
The parent could not resist the deep
impulse of his nature. The father was true to the
law written in his heart. He loved his child with a
pure and unalterable affection, superior to all feelings
of resentment, and which no excess of wickedness
could diminish or destroy. Thus earthly parents love
their offspring. The flame is not extinguished \vhen
sin and remorse, like a flood of dark waters, deluge
the soul. Friends may prove faithless, but the parent's
love burns with a steady light amid the darkness of
adYersity, and the scorn and bitterness of the world.
Shame and infamy, like a mantle, may cover the
child ; but the light of a parent's love will shine on
his pathway,
--" with a lustre unchanging and bright,
Like a radient star on the brow of night."
Now if the love of an earthly parent is thus deep ·
and lasting, what may we not expect from Him who
5. II Sam. xviii. 32, 33.
•
PATERNITY. 95
is the Fountain of all love, and the Father of the
spirits of all flesh 1
But it may be said that the love of an earthly
parent is unlike that of our heavenly Father. I am
aware that there is this important difference. One is
but a feeble emanation from the other-it is only a
drop compared to the boundless deep ! The difference
then relates to the degree in which this love exists,
and the peculiar manner in which it is exemplified,
and not to the nature of the principle itself. In this
respect there is no diversity. If the love and com-
passion of God were dtogether unlike that of an
earthly parent, the appellation of Father as applied
to Him, would be a means of deception, as it would
convey to our minds no correct idea of His relation
and disposition to man. But the loving kindness and
compassion of God: and that which earthly parents
cherish for their children are not dissimilar in nature.
So for, we are authorized to conclude, there is no
essential difference. " As a father pitieth his child-
ren, so the Lord pitieth them that fear Him."6
But
the love of our heavenly Father for His children must
be as far superior in degree, to all which earthly
parents have ever manifested for their offspring, as
His nature is more perfect and glorious. We are not,
therefore, in danger of forming two high an estimate
of the Divine love. This is not possible. Our finite
powers can never grasp the fulness of that LovE
6. Psalms ciii. 13.
96 THE DIVINE
which is above all. Who among you is able to com..
prehend the breadth, and length, and depth, and
height, of that which passeth knowledge 1
" Its highest pojnt what eye can find,
Or to its lowest depths de.=scend ?"
Then when we speak of the love of our heavenly
Father for His children, we may place the standard as
high as it is possible for men or angels to conceive, and
still it will be infinitely short of the Divine reality.
But man is imperfect. As he is liable to a change
of disposition and purpose, his love may grow cold.
It is perhaps possible for an earthly father to forsake
his child. He may cease to regard him with parental
affection. The mother may cast him off, and leave
him to perish. But the loving kindness of our hea-
rcenly Father is ever the same. He will not suffer His
faithfulness to fail. Let us trust in Him, and if we
are denied an earthly parent's fostering care, we may
still say in the confident language of the Psalmist-
" When my father and my mother forsake me, then
the Lord will take me up."7
As our heavenly Father is unchangeable, He will
never cease to regard all His children with a perfect
love. If there is one poor erring child of humanity
who is forgotten and forsaken by all the 'Yorld, we
may be consoled by the reflection that God in His
mercy will remember him. He will take the sufferer
up and bless him in the fulness of His love.
7. Psalms xxvii. 10.
PATERNITY. 97
God ever deals with man as His child. In His
punishments, this relation is recognized, and His
language is, " My son, despise not thou the chastening
of the Lord, nor faint when thou art rebuked of Him.
For whom the Lord loveth He chasteneth, and
scourgeth every son whom He receiveth. If ye
endure chastening, God dealeth 'vith yoti as with
sons ; for what son is he whom the father chasteneth
not 1 .... "'\Ve have had fathers of our flesh 'vhich
corrected us, and we gave them reverence ; shall we
not much rather be in subjection to the Father of
spirits and live ? For they verily, for a fo\v days.,
chastened us after their own pleasure ; but He for our
profit, that we might be partakers of His holiness."8
It js thus that God in wisdom is pleased to cor-
rect His childen. His chastisements are all tem-
pered by His love. I am aware that this is opposed
to the common idea of punishment. Indeed, no
partial system of salvation can be made to harmonize
with the paternal character and government of God.
\Vill you call Him by that endearing name 1 Can
you love Him as your Father, while you cherish the
horrid suspicion that He will be the endless and
merciless tormentor of His o'vn offspring 1 I fear
you cannot. Consider the nature of the paternal
relation, and in view of the great love of God for the
world, will you not trust Him for all that is to come 1
There is one Father of all-He loves all His children
with a perfect love. He can never cease to love no
S. Heb. xii. 5-7, 9, 10.
10
98 THE DIVINE PATERNITY.
more than He can cease to exist. How, then, can
a single member of His great family be lost forever?
Suppose that one poor erring child should find his \vay
down to the burning pit : can you believe that our
heavenly Father would leave him to perish forever?
Can an earthly parent witness the death of his child
and feel no thrill of anguish ? Can the fond mother
resist the cries of her helpless offspring? Oh, no !
she would rush into the scorching flames. You may
talk to her of heaven and all its glory, but what are
these to a childless mother ? If her loved one must
go down to the pit, she would rather make her bed in
hell, and pillow the lost spirit on her agonized bosom !
David would leave a crown of immortal glory to
suffer for his wayward boy, or heaven would be filled
'.vith the voice of his lamentation. Much more, then,
·will our heavenly Father, preserve His children.
When the prodigal is afar off He will have compas·
::;ion on him. If he be fallen, the Father will put
forth the strength of His Almighty arm, and lift him
up again. He will clothe him with the best robe,
and receive him into everlasting mansions.
DISCOURSE VII.
THE lVIISSION OF CHRIST.
"His rest shall be glorious."-lsAIAH XI. 10.
THE Prophet is describing the reign of the Messiah ;
and by an assemblage of the most beautiful images,
he represents the extent of His dominion, and the
great peace, and happiness, an'd glory of His king-
dom. To illustrate the various characteristics and
offices of the Messiah, figures are drawn from every
department of Nature-from the arts and sciences,
and the forms and customs of society. In the imme-
diate connection, he is represented by a striking and
appropriate figure, which it may be interesting to
notice. "And in that day there shall be a root of
Jesse, which shall stand for an ensign of the people;
to it shall the Gentiles seek ; and his rest shall be
glorious." The figure in ·this case is drawn from
military life, nor is it less appropriate and instructive.
Ensigns are trophies of victory, monuments or \varlike
banners. 'Vhen the ancient generals, or chiefs of the
tribes, desired the people to assemble for war, to
celebrate a victory, or for any other important purpose,
an ensign was raised on some lofty eminence, \Yhere
100 THE l\IISSIO~
it could be seen at a great distance. The people
seeing this from afar, came from all directions and
gathered around the standard. You see the propriety
of this figure in its application to the l\'Iessiah. The
true meaning of the passage evidently is, that through
the diffusion of his truth, and the glory of his exam-
ple and character, he will become a visible Ensign
to all who are afar off; to which not only the Je\vs,
but the whole Gentile world-all nations, kindreds
and tongues-will finally gather, to celebrate the
triumphs of his grace. Jesus, in allusion to the
figure of the ensign by which he is represented, and
at the same time referring to the manner of his death,
and the universal gathering of his people, confirms
the point in question by his own positive declaration:
" And I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all
men unto me. " 1
Christ, the great spiritual Ensign,
has been lifted up, literally, at his crucifixion, and in
an eminent and spiritual sense, by the proclamation
of his Gospel. He will, therefore, draw all men unto
himself. Every soul shall enlist in his service, and
the whole rational creation, rejoicing in his presence,
shall celebrate the victory of his cross. Unto him
shall the gathering of the people be, " and his rest
shall be glorious."
Having explained the use of the figure, I trust in
such a manner as to afford some idea of its sacred
significance, we will next proceed in a more particular
1. John xii. 32,
OF CHRIST. 101
manner, to dispose of the several points involved in
our present discussion, viz :-The Nature, Object and
End, of the Saviour's mission.
All will agree that the mission of Christ had its
origin in the Divine goodness, and that it presents to
the world a beautiful illustration 0£ Io·ve and wisdom.
If I may receive this as an evidence of the Divine
mercy, then as all His attributes are infinite and
unchangeable as His own being, I may rationally
conclude that nothing can ever restrict the exercise
of this essential attribute of His nafure. The mercy
manifested in the Gospel must be everlasting; and
hence neither time, circumstances nor events can ever
place a single creature of God beyond its redeeming
power. 1\'.Iany suppose that the strongest proofs of
the impartial love of God for all His creatures, is the
mission of Christ. If the opinion be founded in
truth, I claim this as the sure evidence that He will
never cease to regard all mankind with the same love
which was manifested in the gift of His Son. If, in
the mission of Christ, we have an evidence that God
is infinitely good, then it must of necessity secure
the greatest blessing to the greatest number-even
the salvation and highest happiness of all. 'Ve
conclude, therefore, that the mercy of God, which
endureth forever, and His love, 'vhich is impartial,
are eminently displayed in the mission of Christ,
and that these sufficiently indicate its nature and
character.
102 THE 1'11SSION
\Ve may now direct our attention to the second
point of inquiry. \Vhat was the great object of the
Messiah's mission ? We might here introduce a great
number of texts from the New Testament writers, any
one of which would afford a sufficient answer to this
question ; but 've prefer the simple declaration of the
Master himself, as it comprehends the whole truth,
and may be understood by every capacity :-" For
the Son of ll!an is come to seek and save that which was
lost."2
To indicate the alienation of man the Scriptures
represent him as out of the way-as lost and wander-
ing blindly on, while destruction is before him. "All
we like sheep have gone astray; we have turned
every one to his own way. "3
According to the
Prophet, " the flock was scattered upon all the face
of the earth, and none did search er seek after them."t
Such 'vas the condition of man-a benighted wanderer
in a wilderness, toiling along a dark and rugged way,
beset with snares and pitfalls, v.rhere doubts and fears
arise like grim spectres in a world of gloom and a
land of shadows. He was as a child far away from
the mansion of his father and the joys of his home.
In this unhappy situation, he needed some one to lead
him out from the barren wilderness into the green
pa::;tures and the flowery fields, where he might find
immortal fruits and the sweet waters of life and
salrntion. Christ came to seek after and to \Vatch
2_. Luke xix. 10. 3. l;-,;aiah !iii. G. '1. Ezekiel xxxh•. 6.
OF CHRIST. 103
over him-to guide the lost wanderer into a region
of light and a world of beauty-to lead the child of
disobedience back to the pleasures of his home and
the smiles of his Father.
'Ve have the· object 6f Christ's mission so cl€arly
defined in his ovvn words, that no one can possibly
misapprehend the subject. Many of the parables of
the great Teacher are beautiful and forcible illustra-
tions of our idea. The Gospel is compared to "leaven
which a woman hid in three measures of meal, till the
whole was leavened."5
As leaven operates on the
mass in which it is concealed, imparting to the whole
its own properties, so it is the design and tendency of
the Gospel, to conform the human mind and heart to
itself. You will observe that, in the parable, the
leaven was concealed in the mass till the whole was
leavened. In like manner, the Gospel of Jesus
Christ will extend its influence farther and wider;
until all hearts shall feel its power, and be transformed
into its own moral likeness. This is the great reality
-the universal truth so clearly taught in the language
of the parable. The expression, " till the whole was
leavened," is fatal to any partial interpretation.
In the parable of the lost piece of silver,6
we have
another evidence of the great truth to be developed
in the final result. In this parable, the woman is
represented as seeking diligently till she.finds the lost
piece, and then she calls her friends together to rejoic1
5. :\Iatth. xiii. 33. 6. Luke xx. S, 9..
104 THE MISSIOX
with her. The solicitude of the woman on account
of the lost piece of silver, is intended to indicate the
deep interest of the SaYiour in his appropriate work.
As she did not relinquish the search until she had found
the lost piece, we are authorized to conclude that Christ
\Vill only rest from his labors, when his purpose is
accomplished-when the lost is found, and all have
received the benefit of his mission.
vVe have a further illustration of this truth in the
parable of the lost sheep. " "\Vhat man of you,
having a hundred sheep, if he lose one of them, doth
not leave the ninety and nine in the wilderness, and
go after that which is lost, until he find it ? And
when he hath found it, he layeth it on his shoulders,
rejoicing; and when he cometh home, he calleth to-
gether his friends and neighbors, saying unto them,
rejoice with me ; for I have found my sheep which
was lost. I say unto you, that likewise joy shall be
in heaven over one sinner that repenteth, more than
over ninety and nine just persons \vhich need no
repentance. "7
Christ here represents the manner in
which he will seek after the wandering children of
earth and bring them back to the fold of righteousness.
Because some men have wandered far away, it does
not thence follow that Christ will leave them to
destruction. Surely we have a very different view in
this most instructive lesson. The man in the parable
did not give up in despair and relinquish his appro-
7. Luke xv. 4-7.
OF CHRIST. 105
priate work, because the lost one had strayed so far
from the fold. But his conduct, which beautifully
illustrates the certainty that Christ will restore the
lost wanderer, is clearly indicated by the expressive
language of the parable : " And Y\.·hen he hath found
it, he layeth it on his shoulders rejoicing." Now
"all we like sheep haYe gone astray."3
Christ is the
good Shepherd. " But 'vhen he saw the multitudes,
he was moved with compassion .... because they
fainted and were scattered abroad, as sheep having no
shepherd."9
It is the appropriate business of the
good shepherd to find the lost ones and gather all into
one fold. He will leave no one to perish, an outcast
forever. The Lord is our shepherd, and we haYe the
word of the prophet that He will bring the wanderers
home. " As the shepherd seeketh out his flock in
the day that he is among his sheep that are scattered ;
so will I seek out my sheep, and will deliver them out
of all places where they have been scattered in the
cloudy and dark day .... I will seek that which was
lost, and bring again that which \Yas driven- away,..
and will bind up that which was broken, and \Vill
strengthen that which was sick."10
Christ describes the character of an unfaithful
shepherd :-" He that is a hireling ... whose own the
sheep are not, seeth the \Volf coming and leaveth
the sheep and fleeth, and the wolf catcheth them and'
scattereth the sheep. The hireling fieeth because·
·8. Isa. liii. 6. 9. 1\Iatt. ix. 3G. 10. Ezek. xxxiv. 12-16.
106 THE MISSION
he is a hireling, and careth not for the sheep."11
Now Christ, the good Shepherd, has been en-
trusted with the care of a great flock-the human
family. But we hear that there is a being infinitely
more terrible than the· wolf, who designs to scatter
this flock, and devour all who are driven from the
fold. But will the Shepherd suffer this ? 'Vill he
flee when danger approaches, and leave his flock to
destruction? Will this infernal wolf put the great
Shepherd to flight ? Is he to scatter the sheep fore-
ver, or drag them away to his gloomy caYern ? Do
you believe that Christ will thus leave a single
member of his flock to perish ? Then you forever
deny to him the character he has assumed of the
Good Shepherd, which " giveth his life for the
sheep ;"12
and you ascribe to him the treacherous and
dastardly character of the hireling, \vho " careth not
for tlze slzeep."
But it may be said that Christ has faithfully warned
the members of his flock-that he has pointed out
their danger, and kindly invited them to return, and
that, having performed his part, he may properly leave
them to destruction. This is a great mistake. The
man in the parable did not stand at a distance and
repeatedly call the sheep, and then, because it had
not the ability or the inclination to return, leave jt to
the merciless wolf. This would be acting the part of
the hireling. But " he layeth it on his shoulders
ll. John x. 12, 13. 12. John x. 11.
OF CHRIST. 107
rejoicing," and on his return, he calls others to rejoice
with him, that the lost one is found and saved.
Some one may be inclined to the opinion that
sinners do not properly belong to Christ's flock. But
it is worthy of remark, that the piece of silver and
the sheep were no less valuable because they were
lost ; nor were they any less the property of their
respective owners. So man is no less precious in the
sight of Heaven because he is a sinner ; nor does he
cease to belong to Him who hath the heathen for his
inheritance and the uttermost parts of the earth for a
possession.
Besides, Christ says, '' I am the good Shepherd ;
the good shepherd giveth his life for the sheep."
Now for whom did Christ die? vVhy, for the world
-for every man-for sinners. Then sinners are his
sheep. They are the scattered members of his flock,
which he has come to seek and to save. He has
promised to gather them into his fold:-" Them also
I must bring, and they shall hear my -voice; and there
shall be ONE FOLD AND ONE SHEPHERD. "
13
Now, imagine a human being as deeply wretched
as it is possible to conceive-shut out the last ray of
Divine light from his mind; place him where you
"·ill-here or hereafter-in this world or in any other
-cover his body \vith irons, and shackle all the facul-
ties of the soul ; cast him into a deep pit-if you
please, into hell-and what then ? Oh, say you, he
13. John x. 15.
1{}8 THE l\IISSION
is lost forever ! Nay. " The Son of :Man is come
to seek and to save that 'vhich was lost." vVe are
authorized to say, that Christ is in pursuit of that
man, and unless he finds him and lifts him from the
horrible pit, his work is unfinished forever. Let the
Good Shepherd speak : ""\Vhat man shall there be
among you that shall have one sheep, and if it fall
into a pit .... will he not lay hold on it and lift it
out 1 How much more then is a man better than a
sheep ?"14
Now Christ would teach us this lesson.
If we have so much compassion, and if a stray sheep
is so valuable that "·e seek after it and lift it out of
the pit, then much more will the Good Shepherd who
giveth his life for the sheep, deliver his own in the
day of his power."
0 what love ! what unexampled compassion and
tenderness has he not manifested for the erring chil-
.(iren of men ! All we like sheep have gone astray;
we have turned every one to his own way. In the
language of the prophet,-" The flock was scattered
upon all the face of the earth, and none did search or
seek after them." It was then that the Good Shep-
herd came in the fulness of his love, to gather the
wanderers to his fold. He will not fail in this work.
it shall prosper in his hand. He " will seek that
which was lost, and bring again that which was
:driven away, and will bind up that which was
broken, and will strengthen that which was sick."
He shall gather the lambs with his arm, and carry
H. Matthew xii. 111 l~.
OF CHRIST. 109
them in his bosom. He is our Shepherd-we shall
not want. He will lead his flock into green pastures
and beside the still waters.
If Christ 'vas competent to define the object of
his own mission-if he understood the nature of
his work-if his parables were suitable illustrations
of the subject-then 've have not reasoned falsely
nor in vain. If he came to seek and to save that
which was lost, and all were in this condition, then
his work will not be finished until the last wander·
ing child of humanity is redeemed from his sins,
reconciled to God, and brought home to heaven.
Christ can never rest until his work is accomplished.
If there is even one gone, he will leave all else, and
like the man in the parable, " go after that which
is lost until he find it." If he is not found, Christ
will seek forever. He will explore all earth and the
dungeons of endless night, in pursuit of the 'vanderer,
and if he is not found at last, then Christ will never
rest.
l\'Ien may cavil forever if they will, but it is i1npos·
sible to resist this conclusion. "\Ve all doubtless agree
in our views of the Divine purpose in the mission of
Christ-that the object was to restore that which was
lost-to save the world. If you admit this, and yet
deny that all will be saved, you have no faith in God
-you have no confidence in His ability to accomplish
His purpose-you restrict His power-you lirnjt His
redeeming grace, and His all·conquering truth and
love-you set bounds tO His dominions-you have not
11
110 THE ~IISSION
put on Christ-you haYe no hope that he will finish
his work-you deny the efficacy of all the means and
instruments which God has employed-and what is
your religion ? "\Vhat, but infidelity baptized, lurking
beneath the livery of heaven, and wearing the Gospel
as a mask? 'Vill you profess to be a Christian, and
yet harbor the suspicion that the Messiah will yield
his inheritance to the prince of darkness ? "\Vill you
ham the irreverence to suppose that the weakness of
humanity will defeat the purpose of God, and bafile
the might of the Redeemer ? Did he enter upon his
work without counting the cost, and will he fail at
last? If so, he is like the man who began to build,
and \vas not able to finish. You make him obnoxious
to his own reproofs. I grant that if man were
engaged in this work, it would fail. ~Then he goes
forth to battle with his fellol\~-man-when Greek meets
Greek in the tug of war, there may be much of doubt
and uncertainty hanging O\rer the issue of the contest.
But ·when Truth and Error meet and ming]e in the
conflict-when light pours a flood of glory upon the
darkness-when the Power of the immortal God lays
hold of the wickedness and weakness of man, it will
not admit of a doubt on which side the victory will
be declared.
Let the doubting Christian, who has no faith in the
ultimate triumph of the Redeemer, think of these
things, and remember that the integrity of heaven is
pledged for the salvation of the world. God will
have all men to be saved-He will do all His pleasure
OF CHnIST. 111
-Christ will finish his \Vork in righteousness and
his rest shall be glorious.
But you will observe that this glorious rest is to be
realized only when the work iJ accomplished. It is
true an individual may rest from his labors before
they are finished. The unfaithful shepherd-the
hireling-\vhose duty it is to watch over and protect
the sheep, may leave them to be destrored. He may
rest eYen while the flock is scattered abroad upon the
mountains, or is deYoured by the ravenous \volf. His
rest is not glorious. The husbandman may neglect
to gather in his harYest-he may leave the golden
grain to be covered by the drifting sno\YS, or driven
away by the winter's blast. He may seek and find
repose, but it is not a glorious rest. The fallen
warrior may rest upon his hacked helmet and splin-
tered spear, \vhen at last he is conquered and subdued;
but it is the inglorious rest of wounded pride and
disappointed ambition. The king, too, may rest
when he has lost his subjects-when the throne has
crumbled from beneath him-lvhen the sceptre is
wrested from his grasp-\vhen the diadem is torn from
his bro,v, and he is made to bite the dust in the
agony of his grief-even then he may rest from the
care of the empire and the conflict of the world. But
there is no glory for him ; his rest may COYer him with
a mantle of shame and reproach, and consign his name
to everlasting infamy. But the rest which remains for
the Redeemer of the \Vorld will be glorious. He will
restore the wanderer-he will gather in the harvest of
112 THE MISSION
the world, that nothing be lost-he will conquer his
enemies-not, indeed, by the might of his arm, but
by the power of his love. It will be the subjection of
reconciliation. " It pleased the Father that in him
should all fulness dwell; and having made peace
through the blood of his cross, by him to reconcile all
things unto himself-by him I say, whether they be
things in earth or things in heaven."15
~either the poi.vers of the world, the spirits of the
air, nor the demons of darkness,_shall be able to arrest
his progress, or fix a limit to his achievements, He
\Vill subdue all opposing powers and influences to the
universal diffusion of his truth, and his throne shall
be established forever. "He shall see of the travail
of his soul and be satisfied ;"16
and as his work will
be finished in righteousness, so his rest shall be glori-
ous.
Thus Christ is presented in the gospel. Look
then, to the spiritual Ensign that is reared upon the
lofty eminence of Zion. Blessed be God, we are not
required by our faith to gather around that standard,
to mourn over Him who is the Captain of our salvation.
It is not the Ensign of a fallen chief, who would
summon his few remaining friends to bind up his
wounds and bear him from the seat of dishonor.
Nay. It is to us the sign of the Conquerer and the
signal of his triumph ; and around that Ensign all
nations, families, kindreds and tongues shall gather
at last to celebrate the victory of his Cross and the
15. Col. i. 19, 20. 16. Isa. liii. 11.
OF CHRIST. 113
glory of his name. " The ransomed of the Lord
shall return and come to Zion with songs and eYer-
lasting joy upon their heads .... and sorrow and
sighing shall flee away."17
As there shall be joy in
heaven over one sinner that repenteth, rnor~ than
over ninety and nine just persons; so the return of
the last ·wanderer, will but complete the happiness of
heaven, and secure glory to God in the highest. 'Vell
may the Redeemer rest, for his work is done. " There
shall be no more death, neither sorro\v nor crying,
neither shall there be any more pain, for the former
things are passed away."18
IT IS FINISHED. THE
MISSION IS ACCOMPLISHED. IN THE "WIDE tJNIYERSE
THERE IS NO SIGH OF ANGUISH-NO WAIL OF ""WOE- !
THERE IS NO PAI~ TO SOOTH-NO SOUL TO SAYE !
I trust \Ye all feel that this salvation is a matter of
exceeding great joy. Dut is it enough for us that "\Ye
are saved at lest? If salvation is a joyful thing, 0,
then, it is well to be saved now. Let us, therefore,
receive the gospel of Christ as a guide to our faith,
and his example as the rule of our life. L c:t us break
off our sins by righteousness, and conform to the Di-
vine requirements. l\fay our reverence for God and
His government be manifested in every action, ~nd
the remembrance of His care and protection make us
humble and grateful. Let the assurance of His love and
the hope of His salvation, fill our hearts with His prai3e,
and the victory of His Son be the crown of our rejoicing.
Let Christ be formed in you, the hope of glory and
17. h:ibh XXX.\". 10. 1~. Re,·. xxi. 1.
114 THE NISSIOK OF CHRIST.
the virtues and graces which will adorn your lives,
will remain and flourish in their beauty when all else
~hall decay and die. 0, let me bow in spirit at the
foot of his cross, and with a grateful heart, read the
~tory of his love ! And amid_ all the storms and
conflicts of time, his grace shall be sufficient ; and
in life's last hour, when I am called from this
earthly home, I ask but this-before I leave the world
in which my Redeemer frred and died and rose again,
let me but light my hope at the door of his sepulchre !
DIS COURSE VIII ~
SCRIPTURE EVIDE NCES.
" "
7
hat saith the Scripture ?"-Roru.Axs IY. 3.
THERE is as wide a diversity in the intellectual and
moral, as in the physical constitution of man. H ence
that which is especially adapted to one mind, may not
be as well suited to another capacity. It has been
our desire in this discussion, to render the unfrersal
truth apparent to all minds. For this purpose we
haYe reasoned from different premises to the same
conclusion. The illustrations and arguments deri,-ed
from natural, moral and intellectual philosophy, may
be more pleasing, and at the same time more conYinc-
ing, to some persons, than any others we may be able
to furnish ; still, we may Yenture to hope, that to
another, and possibly a larger class, the biblical argu-
ment will be equally interesting and profitable.
It will be perceived that the Di \'ine authenticity of
the Bible is not properly comprehended in the subject
of our present inquiry. Of course we shall not go out
of our way to frame an argument or to expres<:> an
opinion on this point. The question presented at this
stage of the im·estigation is, simply, " \\~hat saith
116 SCHIPTURE
the Scripture?" And while I ask the favor of your
candid attention to the ans\ver, I leave every one to
enjoy his own opinion concerning the nature and
authority of the testimony.
I submit for your consideration, first, that the will,
purpose and pleasure of God, as revealed in the Scrip-
tures, embrace the salvation of the w:;rld. "For this is
good and acceptable in the sight of God our Saviour,
who will have all men to be saved, and to come unto
the knowledge of the truth." 1
Divines attempt to
resist the force of this text, by assuming that the
words, "who will have," do not imply a fixed purpose
in the Di vine Mind-that this language does not
express the will of determination, but is rather to be
understood as a command. If we succeed in our
attempt to show that this is an erroneous assumption,
the objection to our view of the text is gone in a
moment. To remove the obj ection and establish our
idea, it is only necessary to prove that the will of
determination is clearly expressed in this language of
the apostle. Let us no\V advert to the passage, and
consider it in connection with the immediate context.
" For this is good and acceptable in the sight of God
our Saviour, who will have all men to be saved, and
to come unto the knowledge of the truth. For there
i::; one God, and one mediator between God and men,
the man Christ Jesus; w·ho gave himself a ransom
for all, to be testified in due time." But in what
way or manner was it to be testified in due time that
1. I Timothy xi. 31 '1.
EVIDE~CES. 117
God had willed the salvation of the world, and that
to this end Christ had gfren himself a ransom for all?
If you say, it was to be made known through the
ministry of Christ and his apostles-in the preaching
of the Gospel-my reply is, they had already given
their testimony in this \Vay. Chrisr had finished his
earthly ministry more than thirty years before, and
the apostles had been engaged in the proclamation of
this truth at least a quarter of a century. And yet,
according to Paul, it \Yas to be testified in due time.
Now what further, better or more certain testimony
remained to be gfren 1 Surely not the preaching of
modern divines. Th.ey have hardly been more faith-
" ful in the proclamation of this truth than the l\Iessiah
and the early ministers of his cross. But the truth
that God had \villed the salvation of the world, and
that Christ had given himself a ransom for all, was
still to be confirmed in a more visible and glorious
manner. That \vhich had been prospectively finished
in the life and ministry of Christ '\Vas to be actually
completed in due time, that the \Vorld might know of
a truth, that he had given himself a ransom for alL
Thus we see that the more certain evidence j s the
actual accomplishment. The prisoner may not believe
the tidings of deliverance-he may not heed the
proclamation of liberty to the captives, '"hen first it
breaks upon the silence of his dungeon ; but when
his chains are broken-when the prison doors are
open, and he is led out into the great light which
God made to shine upon him, then he will beliei:e
118 SCRIPTURE
aud reJOice. Thus it will be with the imprisoned
spirits of men-the dungeon will be opened, the
chains of the captive will be broken, and the creation
will be <lelfrered into the glorious light and liberty of
the children of God.2
Then it will be manifest that
God's 1Yill implies a fixed and definite purpose-that
He determined in the counsels of His love to save the
world.
But there is, perhaps, no more certain way to de-
termine the meaning of the apostle's language than
by a reference to other portions of the Scripture
testimony, in which similar forms of expression are
used in reference to the same subject. _\Ve 'vill
therefore submit the text to another trial. "re read
that " the Father loYeth the Son, and hath given all
all things into his hand. "3
The will of God concern-
ing the destiny of all these, is so plainly revealed in
the Gospel, as hardly to admit of doubt or misappre-
hension. A single reference to the testimony of the
great Teacher, will be sufficient for our present
purpose. No-w, keeping in mind the fact, that the
Father hath gfrcn all things into the hands of His
Son-the heathen for an inheritance and the utter-
most parts of the earth for a possession,4
I ask you
as you acknowledge the Scriptures to be the word of
God, to receiYe this revelation of His \Yill. "All
that the Father giveth me shall come to me ; and him
that cometh to me, I will in no "·ise cast out. For
I came dovrn from heaven, not to do mine own "·ill,
2. Rom. viii. 21. 3. John iii. 35. 1. Psalm ii. 8.
EVIDENCES. 119
but the \vill of Him that sent me. And this is the
Father's will which hath sent me, that of all which
He hath given me, I should loose nothing, but should
raise it up again at the last day."5
This is so clearly
expressive of the determinate purpose of God, that
those who receive the Bible as their rule of faith,
must yield to an honest conviction. This testimony
of the faithful and true witness, and that of Paul, are
to the same import. The apostle affirms that God
will have all men to be sared, and Christ declares it to
be the Father's ·will that nothing should be lost. These
forms of expression are used in reference to the same
subject, and are equally comprehensive. They admit
of no limitation, but reveal, in a clear light, the
immutable purpose of Jehornh in the salrntion of the
world.
'l'he idea that the language of Paul is to be regard-
ed as mandatory rests upon mere assumption, but as
such an exposition is sanctioned at least by many
divines of the lVIetho<list order; \Ye subjoin the testi-
mony of their distinguished commentator. "\Ve gi,-e
the opinion of Dr. Clark in his own words. "Because
God wills the salrntion of all men; therefore, He
,,·ills that all men should be prayed for. In the face
of such a declaration, how can any christian soul
suppose that God ever, unconditionally and eternally,
reprobated any man .... God is the maker, governor,
und preserver of all men, of every condition, and of
every nation; and EQUALLY wills the salvation of all. "6
5. John vi. 37-39. 6 Sec Commentary.
120 SCRIPTURE
Thus yon will perceive, that the explanation given by
diYines of the Methodist Church, is sanctioned neither
by the Scriptures nor the authority of t~eir own expo·
sitor.
But admit, if you please, the exposition under
re\'iew to be correct. Grant, for the sake of the
argument, that the words of Paul, " who will have
all men to be saved," do not express the will of deter-
mination-that they furnish no evidence of a settled
and definite purpose in the Dfrine Mind, but are to
be understood as a command, and what follows ~
Why, the logical advocates of this exposition are
driven in a direct line to the conclusion, that the
Omniscient One-the Supreme Governor of the Uni-
verse in giving His commands, has no fixed and definite
pnrpose. Now, if the arguments employed against
the doctrine of God's impartial grace and salvation
lead to conclusions at once absurd and irreverent,
surely, those who use them must be held accountable.
But our views of the \Yill, purpose and pleasure of
God, are confirmed by other portions of the Sacred
Record. A reference to some of these may present
the argument in a still stronger light. "Blessed be
the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who
hath blessed us with all spiritual blessings in heavenly
places in Christ ; . . . . in whom we have redemption
through his blood, the forgiveness of sins, according
to the riches of his grace ; .. Having made known
unto us the mystery of his will, according to his good
pleasure, \vhich he hath purposed in himself; that in
EVIDENCES. 121
the dispensation of the fulness of times, He might
gather together in one all things in Christ, both which
are in heaven, and which are on earth, even in him."'
" For the transgression of my people ·was he stricken ;8
It pleased the Lord to bruise him ; He hath put him
to grief; when thou shalt make his soul an offering
for sin, he shall see his seed ; he shall prolong his
days, and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in
his hand. "9
"And all the inhabitants of the earth
are reputed as nothing; and He doeth according to
His will in the army of heaven and among the inha-
bitants of the earth; and none can stay His hand. " 10
"I am God and there is none like me ; declaring the
end from the beginning, and from ancient times the
things that are not yet done, saying, my counsel shall
stand, and I 'vill do all my pleasure."11
Thus ''"e
have given you the law and the testimony, and from
this we think it must be sufficiently evident, that the
will of God implies a certain, fixed and definite pur-
pose-that the purpose of God 'vill be accomplished
in the final deliverance and salvation of all men-that
He who rules in earth as well as heaven, will do all
His pleasure.
Having proved that the revealed will, purpose and
pleasure of God is the salvation of all men~ 've now
pass to consider His promise and oath. Abraham
received the promise that he should become a great
7. Eph. i. 3, 7, 9, IO.
8. Isa. liii. 8.
10. Daniel iv. 35.
11. Isaiah xlvi. 9. 10.
9. Isaiah liii. 10.
12
122 SCRIPTURE
nation, and that in his seed the most distinguished
blessings should be conferred upon the race. " In
thee shall all families of the earth be blessed." 12
"Abraham shall surely become a great and mighty
nation, and all the nations of the earth shall be
blessed in him." 13
" In thy seed shall all the nations
of the earth be blessed." 14
The same promises were
subsequently confirmed to Isaac and Jacob, in lan-
guage equally strong and emphatic. I. wish you to
observe, first, that these promises are unconditional
and universal. They are not restricted to any rank,
character or condition, or made to depend for their
fulfilment upon any work of human duty or superero-
gation. This is sufficiently evident from the lan-
guage in which they are presented. If you require
other evidence that they extend to all, irrespective
of their character or condition, we have it. In
the epistle to the Romans, we read that the promise
was by grace, to the end that it might be sure to
all.15
Again, in the Acts of the Apostles, Peter,
in addressing the Jews, says., " Ye denied the Holy
One and the Just, and desired a murderer to be granted
unto you. And killed the Prince of Life, whom God
hath raised from the dead; whereof we are witness-
es."16 "Ye are the children of the prophets, and of
the covenant which Goel made with our fathers,
saying unto Abraham, and in thy seed shall all the
kindreds of the earth be blessed."17
Thus "·e see
12. Gen. xii. 3.
13. Gen. xviii. 18.
11. Gen. xxii. 18.
15. Rom. iv. 16.
16. Acts iii. 14, 15.
17. Acts iii. 25.
EYIDEXCES. 123
that all nation~, Jews and Gentiles-that all ranks
and conditions, the high, the low, the rich, and the
poor, the bond and the free, even all the families and
kindreds of the earth-that all characters, not excepting
those who crucified the Son of God, are comprehended
in this covenant of promise. If, therefore, you Yrnuld
find an individual who is not included, he must be
one who has no kindred-a member of no family,
and belonging to no nation on the face of the earth.
As it is impossible, in the nature of the case, for such
a person to exist, it follows that the promise is uni-
versal in its application-that every child of God will
'share in the promised blessing, whatever it may be.
Having gained the first point in the argument, we
are no\v prepared to adrnnce, by a direct and natural
transition to the final conclusion. Here I must re-
quest you to observe, that this great universal blessing
is to he enjoyed in or through the seed of Abraham.
'' In thy seed shall all the kindreds of the earth be
blessed." That Christ is signified by the seed of
Abraham, is rendered certain by the testimony. of
Paul. " Now to Abraham and his seed were the
promises made. He saith not, and to seeds, as of
many; but as of one, and to thy seed, which is
CHRIST."
15
It follows, therefore, that according to
this promise, all mankind are to be blessed in Christ;
and we read, that if any man be in Christ, he is a
new creature.19
IS. Gal. iii. IG. 19. II Cor. Y. Ii.
124 SCRIPTURE
The next point of inquiry to ·which I ask the favor
of your attention is, the n2ture of the blessing here
promised.
The opposers of Uni\~ersalism attempt to erndc the
force of the argument deriYed from these promises,
by assuming that they have no reference to the future
life-that the blessings promised to Abraham were,
his possessions in the land of Canaan, and the increase
of his posterity in after ages. In short, that the
blessing was wholly of a temporal nature. I shall
take the liberty to strip this infidel objection of its
flimsy coYering, and exhibit its naked deformity.
\
How, I may ask, have all the nations, kindreds and
families of the earth received the blessing, upon this
supposition 1 In what manner, for example, has this
nation, and your kindred, and my family, been bene-
fited by the temporal possessions of the Patriarchs
and all their posterity 1 Certainly not in any possible
way. Besides, vim have proved by the Apostle, that
the seed of Abraham, through '"horn the blessing is
to be conferred upon the world, is Jesus Christ, the
Lord of life and glory; and what are the blessings
which we hope to receive in him? Are they a portion
in the land of promise 1 Do they consist in lands and
goods, here or elsewhere, or in any possible circum-
stances of worldly prosperity 1 Nay. But in him
we hope for salvation and immortal life-for an
inheritance, undefiled and that fadeth not away.
EVIDEXCES. 125
Again :-It is manifest that Abraham did not re-
strict the promise to any temporal fayors. In other
words, he did not confine the blessing to this world.
\Ve read that "by faith he sojourned in the land of
promise as in a strange country, dwelling in taberna-
cles, 'vith Isaac and Jacob ;"20
i. e., they d\veft in
tents, and were 'vithout a local habitation; and it is
worthy of remark, that Abraham never acquired any
special right to any portion of the country except the
cave of i\Iachpelah, in which he left his bones. He
did not seek for earthly possessions. He belieYed
that there was a sacred significance in the Divine
promise-that it reYealed a still future and more
glorious inheritance. Hence he continued to dlvell
there as in a strange country. The land of promis-e
was to him but a mere type-an imperfect, symbolical
repr~sentation of that spiritual rest and peace which
the eye of faith beheld afar off. He desired " a
better country, that is an heavenly."21
"He looked
for a city which hath foundations, whose builder and
maker is God."22
Thus it is rendered certain, that
all men will ultimately be blessed in Christ, and that
Abraham understood the promise to refer to the glori-
ous realities of the life to come. These considerations
forbid the supposition that the blessing is of a temporal
nature.
J?ut- it may be said, it does not necessarily follow
that the promise relate_
s to the future life, because the
blessing is spiritual in its nature. Some one may be
20. Heb. xi. 9. 21. Heb. xi 16.
12L
22. Heb. xi. 10.
126 SCRIPTURE
disposed to contend that Christ has offered salvation
to all, and in doing so, has fulfilled the promise.
This is a great mistake. It is no where intimated
that Christ was merely to offer a blessing to the world,
but it is expressly declared, that all in heaven and on
earth will be gathered together in Christ, that they
may receive this blessing.. It is utterly impossible in
the nature of the case, that this promise should have
its fulfilment in this world. Nations, kindreds and
families have ceased to be. Many of them passed
away long before the Sun of Righteousness appeared.
Many others have been swept from the map of human
existence, on whom the light of the Gospel hath never
shown. Surely, no one will pretend that these
received the blessing in Christ Jesus, while living on
the earth.. The tidings of salvation never sounded in
their ears. They never so much as heard the name
of the Redeemer. It remains, therefore, for them to
receive the blessing in the immortal state, or the
promise of God will fail forever.
But we have another, and if possible, a still stronger
evidence, in the fact, that this promise is called the
Gospel. "·The Scripture, foreseeing that God would
justify the heathen, through faith preached before
the Gospel unto Abraham, saying, in thee shall all
nations be blessed.23
Now, as life and immortality
are brought to light in the Gospel, it is certain that
these are comprehended in the promise, and must
2-3. Gal. iii 8.
EVIDENCES. 127
constitute the incorruptible and glorious inheritance of
the race. It '\vas not in vain that Abraham looked
for a better country-for a city whose builder and
maker is God. He beheld, afar off, through the
gloom and darkness of coming ages, the light and
glory of the Gospel Day._ " Jesus said unto them,
your father Abraham rejoiced to see my day; and he
saw it and was glad."24
Ah, says one, the speaker can make out his case
from the Gospel, but he seems to have forgotten that
God has given a Law-that man has violated that law
and must therefore suffer the penalty. No, my bro-
ther, I have not forgotten that, but I haYe yet to learn
that the All-\Vise Go,·ernor of the Unfrerse has given
a law that is incompatible with His revealed will,
purpose and pleasure, or which may serve in any way
to contraYene His promise. It is the height of
absurdity and blasphemy>" to suppose that the Dfrine
Legislator has given a law to defeat that promise on
'\vhich the fidelity of all heaven is made to depend.
But we may refute this objection in the most effectual
manner, by a brief and incontrovertible argument,
which may be found in Paul1
s Epistle to the Galatians.
The Apostle reasons to the point ; "And this I say,
that the covenant that was confirmed Lefore, of God
in Christ, the law, wkich was four hundred and thirty
years after, CANNOT DISANNUL, that it should make the
promise of none effect." " Is the law then against the
24. John viii. 56.
123 SCRIPTURE
promises of God ?" And the Apostle's anS\Yer is-
" GoD FORBID. "
25
I need not remind you, that in this discussion, we
haYe taken nothing for granted. 'The se,·eral points
in the argument have been proved by the most posi-
tiYe and unequirncal testimony. In the mouth of at
least two or three witnesses, the whole has been
established. And is not this sufficient to produce
co1wiction-to commend the truth to every man's
conscience in the sight of God ? "\Vould you have it
confirmed by the solemnity of an oath ? It shall be
done :-"I have sworn by myself, the word is gone
out of my mouth in righteousness, and shall not return
that unto me every knee shall _bow, e\·ery tongue
shall swear, surely shall say, in the Lord have I
righteousness and strength."213
" For men verily
swear by the greater ; and an oath for confiJmation is
to them an end of all stdfe. "\Vherein God, willing
more abundantly to show unto the heirs of promise,
the immutability of His counsel, confirmed it by an
oath ; that by two immutable things, in which it was
impossible for God to lie, we might have a strong
consolation, who have fled for refuge to lay hold upon
the hope set before us; which hope we have as an
anchor of the soul, both sure and stedfast, and which
entereth into that within the veil; whither the fore-
runner has for us entered, even Jesus."27
Here you
have still another evidence that the promise to the
25. Chap. iii. 21. 26. Isa. xlv. 23. 27. Heb. vi. 16-20.
EVIDENCES. 129
Patriarch is the Gospel, and that it comprehends the
unfading glories of immortal life. It affords to the
believer a strong consolation and an eYerlasting refuge.
The hope it inspires is an anchor to the soul-it is
sure and steadfast, because it rests, not upon ourselves
-not on any thing we have done or can do-not in
any earthly inheritance, but upon Gon AND 11\IMORQ
TALITY.
Now, if you are willing to credit the testimony of
a mere man, will you not receive the promise of
Him who cannot lie ? If, among honest men, an
oath is an end of all strife, ·will you not be silent and
respect the oath of God ?
DISCOURSE IX.
SCRIPTURE EVIDENCES.
a 'Vhat saith the Scripture ?"-Ro::uA~s IV. 3.
IT will be remembered that our last discourse
was devoted to an examination of such portions of
the Scripture testimony as relate to the will, pur,,
pose, the promise and oath of God. \Ve are now
prepared to continue the Scripture argument. In
the arrangement and classification of the proofs to
be presented in this discourse, "·e shall follow out
the plan already adopted.
I will now ask the favor of your attention to those
passages 'vhich represent the blessings resulting from
the righteousness and the death of Christ, as equal or
superior in their extent and magnitude, to the evils
consequent upon transgression. The argument found-
ed upon these never has been successfully controYerted,
and from the nature of the case, "·e are authorized to
say it never will be ans,vered. No man, who will
receiYe the Gospel as his rule of faith, can resist its
force. Indeed, the learned expositors, who have
been dernted to a partial theology have, in view of
this, not only been compelled to make concessions
132 SCRIPTURE
fatal to their whole system, but in some instances they
have been constrained to acknowledge and to vindi-
cate the great salvation with spirit and power.
In the Epistle to the Romans we have a powerful
illustration and defence of the great truth we design
to enforce. The Apostle pursues, a course of anti-
thetical reasoning, Y\rhich is absolutely irresistible, and
which should be sufficient to commend the truth to
every man's conscience. '' Wherefore, as by one man
sin entered into the world, and death by sin; and so
death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned
.... But not not as the offence, so also is the free
gift. For if through the offence of one, many [that
is the whole race] be dead ; much more the grace of
God and the gift by grace, which is by one man, Jesus
Christ hath abounded unto rnany,"1
[i. e. the whole
body of mankind.] A learned writer, Dr. Taylor,
says : " It is evident that the Apostle in this, and the
two following verses, is running a parallel, or making
a comparisan, between the offence of Adam and its
consequences; and the opposite gift of God and its
consequences. And, in these three verses, he shows
that the comparison will not hold good in all respects,
because the free gift bestows blessings far beyond the
consequences of the offence, and whjch, therefore,
have no relation to it."2
Now if the offence involves
all the world in sin and death, and the obedience of
Christ and the gift of God, are co-extensive in their
consequences, then holiness and immortal life will be
1. Romans v. 12, 15. 2. See Clark's note on the passage.
EVIDENCES. 133
the exalted destiny and the incorruptible inheritance
of all. Dr. Clark says, that by the many who are
here said to be dead, the Apostle means all mankind.
And he proceeds to illustrate and enforce our peculiar
views of the subject, as you "\Yill perceive from the
following :-" And if the many, that is, all mankind,
have died through the offense of one, certainly the
gift by grace, which abounds unto the many, by
Christ Jesus, must have reference to every human
being. . . . . For it is most eYident that the same
persons are referred to in both clauses of the Yerse.
If the Apostle had believed that the benefits of the
death of Christ had extended only to a select number
of mankind, he never could have used the language
he has done here ; though in the first clause, he might
have said, without any qualification of the term,
Through ·the offense of one, many are dead; in the
second clause, to be consistent with the doctrine of
particular redemption, he must have said, The grace
of God, and the gift by grace, hath abounded unto
some. As by the offense of one judgment came upon
all men to condemnation ; so, by the righteousness of
one, the free gift came upon some to justification. As
by one man's disobedience, many were made sinners
so by the obedience of one, shall some be made righ-
teous. As in Adam all die; so, in Christ, shall some
be made alive."3
After sho,ving in this manner, the
absurdity of any and every partial view of the sub·
ject, he declares that this doctrine which confines the
3. See Commentary.
13
134 SCRIPTURE
free gift of God to a part of His children-which
restricts the benefits of Christ's mission and death
to a few, never " entered the soul of this divinely
inspired man." Thus you perceive, (Dr. Clark being
the \Vitness,) that this narrow and partial system of
faith, which limits the grace of God and the gift by
grace, never entered the soul of the Apostle. This is
true if we understand it to refer to him only as an
ambassador of Christ; previous to his conversion to
Christianity, he was a self-righteous pharisee, and,
moved by the intolerant and exclusive spirit of par-
tialism, he went forth breathing out threatening and
slaughter against all who had a better faith and a
broader charity. He \Yas a partialist up to the time
of his conversion. In other \vords, he limited the grace
of God to a part of His children-to the Jews, or to the
sect of the pharisees. But when Paul embraced the
Gospelof Jesus Christ, his whole soul \Vas baptized
in_to the spirit of universal grace and salvation; and
from that hour, it appears from his own ·words, no less
than from the testimony of Dr. Adam Clark, tha the
doctrine which limits the grace of God and the
benefits of the Saviours's mission, never entered his
soul.
Some contend that Christ has performed his part
in the work of salvation, by so far removing the con-
sequences of Adam's transgression, that all may be
saved if they will, and that the eternal. destiny of
every man now depends upon his individual choice,
and the merit or demerit of his own actions. How
EVIDENCES. 135
it is that Christ removes the sin of Adam and its
consequences, and leaves every other man to take
care of himself, does not appear. But one fact is
rendered quite apparent-the grace of God and the
obedience and righteousness of Christ are set off, not
against the single transgression of Adam, but the
offences of all men. It is easy to see that this is the
only inference authorized by the Apostle's language.
"And not as it was by one that sinned, so is the gift;
for the judgment was by one to condemnation, but
the free gift is of many offences unto justification."4
Thus you perceive that the gift of God is not restricted
in any way by Adam's transgression, but is made to
counterbalance the many offences of mankind. I
trust this will be evident to all, if we but follow out
the Apostle's antithesis. " Therefore, as by the
offence of one, judgment came upon all men to con-
demnation ; even so, by the righteousness of one, the
free gift came upon all men unto justification of life."5
It is especially worthy of remark, that man does not
receive this most precious gift on account of his
obedience or righteousness. In this case, it would
not be a free gift, but a reward. According to the
Apostle, it was not in consequence of any merit
in ourselves ; but it was by the righteousness of
one, [Christ,] that the free gift came upon all men.
The Apostle continues:-'' For as by one man's
disobedience many were made sinners ; so, by the
obedience of one, shall many be made righteous.
4 Romans \.. lG. 5. Yerse lf'.
136 SCRIPTURE
l\Ioreover, the law entered that the offense might
abound ; but where sin abounded, grace did much
more abound."6
Now it will be conceded that the
reign of sin and death is as extensive as the human
race ; and yet in the magnitude of their power and
the extent of their influence and dominion, they are
far less than the grace of God, which bringeth salva-
tion to all men. '' What if death passed upon all
men, for that all have sinned ?" the gift of God is
no less universal. It extends whereYer the curse is
found. Nor is it restricted by these limits. Farther
and wider and deeper than the ravages of sin-above
and beyond the empire of death and the darkness and
gloom of the sepulchre, the grace or favor of God
will triumph in immortal life. But if the common
opinion, that sin and death are to reign forever over a
part of the universe, be correct, it cannot be said in
truth, that where sin abounded, grace did much more
abound. To render the Apostle's language true, the
grace of God and the gift by grace must not only
extend as far as the guilt and condemnation of sin,
but it must actually secure to the whole ·rational crea-
tion, greater blessings than those whieh are lost by
transgression. It must be manifest to all, that the
intention of the Apostle, in this place, was to repre-
sent all mankind as receiving, through the inten·ention
of Christ's mission, a blessing far greater than the
injury they have sustained in consequence of sin.
The mode of expression here employed will admit of
6. Romans v 191 20-.
EVIDENCES. 137
no limitation. All who are made sinners by disobe-
dience, are, through the obedience of Christ, made
righteous. As all are condemned in consequence of
sin, so by virtue of the free gift, all, in like manner,
are justified, or made }ust. Many (or all) are dead,
from the nature of the offence, yet through the
obedience and righteousness of Christ, they shall live
again. " That as sin hath reigned unto death, even
so might grace reign through righteousness unto
eternal life, by Jesus Christ our Lord."7
"For the
wages of sin is death ;· but the gift of God is eternal
life, through Jesus Christ our Lord."8
' Now it cannot
be - said that the phrase eternal life is employed by
Paul to indicate merely the resurrection state, or the
perpetuity of being, without any further reference to
the condition of man. It is a life in which the reign
of sin is over. It represents a state in 'vhich those
who have been sinners are made righteous. All who
have been condemned are justified. Those who were
dead in trespasses and sins, are made alive in holiness.
It is a condition in which grace and truth reign and
triumph over all sin and error. Christ has described the
nature of this life :-"And this is lif(eternal, that they
might know thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ
whom thou hast sent."9
Thus you perceive that the
gift of God-that which came upon all men, or was
secured to all, through the mission of Christ and his
obedience unto death, implies a knowledge of the
true God-His existence-His perfections, and His
7. Romans v. 21. 8. Chap. ,.i. 23.
13M
9. John xvii. 3.
138 SCRIPTURE
requirements. This knowledge will be universally
diffused. ' This is the covenant that I will make
with them, after those days, saith the Lord. I will
put my laws into their hearts, and in their minds will
I \vrite them. And they shall teach no more every
man his neighbor, and every man his brother, saying,
know the Lord ; for they shall all know me from the
least unto the greatest. '10
If we have any just con·
ceptions of happiness and heaYen, they are identified
with the existence of that true Light, which lighteth
every man that cometh into the 'vorld, which shall yet
shine in all hearts, " to give the knowledge of the
glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ." 11
The fact
that the creature is still in darkness and chains-that
he is enslaved by the world and the unhallowed
passions of his own breast, is no objection to this
great deliverance. "For the creature was made
:;ubject to vanity, not willing, but by reason of Him
who hath subjected the same in hope ; because the
creature itself also, shall be deliYered from the bond·
age of corruption into the glorious liberty of the
children of God."u The original word here translat·
ed creature is, in the immediate context, rendered
creation. Accordi·ng to Macknight and other critics,
it properly signifies every human being. Therefore,
all were made subject to vanity, in the hope that all
will be delivered from bondage into 'the liberty \Vhere~
with Christ hath made us free..'
10. Jeremiah xxxi. 33. Hebrews viii. 10, 11.
11. II Cor. iv. G. 12. Rom. viii. 20, 21.
EVIDENCES. 139
The great Apostle had no idea that sm \vould
prevent the triumph of redeeming grace. He did not
confine the gift of God to a part of His children; nor
did he restrict the benefits of Christ's mission. If we
may believe Adam Clark, the id~a- '·' never entered
his soul." Paul rejoiced in the superabundance of
heavenly grace, and his doctrine is that, when the
reign of sin shall be finished, and death, the last
enemy is destroyed ; then that grace v1hich bringeth
salvation, shall reign through righteousness unto
eternal life.
In our apprehension, the Apostle's language will
admit of no other construction. Attempt to explain it
in any other '\Vay, and you rudely assail the reason
and the conscienc€ of man. You commit an outrage
upon all rules of logical propriety, and render the
whole passage unintelligible.
To show you that we are not without the most
learned and the most orthodox authority for this ex-
position, we will refer you to Dr. Clark's comment on
the 21st verse of the fifth chapter of Romans: "That
as sin hath reigned unto death, even so might grace
reign through righteousness unto eternal life, by Jesus
Christ our Lord." As extensiYely, as · deeply, as
uni \'ersally as sin, whether implying the act of trans-
gression or the impure principle from which the act
proceeds, or both, hath reigned, subjected the whole
earth and all its inhabitants ; the whole soul, and all
its powers and faculties, unto death, temporal of the
body, spiritual of the soul, and eternal of both ; eren
140 SCRIPTURE
so, as extensively, deeply, and universally miglit grace
reign-filling the '\vhole earth, and pervading, purify-
ing and refining the whole soul ; through righteous-
ness-through this doctrine of free salvation by the
blood of the Lamb, and by the principle of holiness
transfused through the soul by the Holy Ghost; unto
elernal life-the proper object of an immortal spirit's
hope, the only sphere where the human intellect can
rest and be happy, in the place and state where God
is; lvhere He is seen As HE Is; and where He can
be enjoyed without interruption, in an eternal pro-
gression of knowledge and beatitude ; by Jesus Christ
our Lord-as the cause of our salvation, the means by
which it is communicated, and the source whence it
springs. Thus '\Ve find that the salvation from sin
here is as extensive and complete as the guilt and
contamination of sin ; death is conquered, hell disap-
pointed, the devil confounded, and sin totally destroyed.
[Here the prospect was so bright and glorious, that the
Doctor could no longer suppress his emotions, and he
exclaims in the fulness of his joy]-Here is glorying:
To him that loved us, and washed us from our sins in
£n his own blood, and lias made us kings and priests to
God, and his Father, be glory and dominion for-
ever and ever. Amen. Hallelujah! The Lord God
Omnipotent reigneth ! Amen and amen. Thus we
see that those who at other times oppose our faith,
when for a moment the veil of darkness and unbelief
is withdrawn, and the excellent glory breaks upon the
vision !-when their eyes are open to the bright
EV'IDENCES. 141
realities of the spirit world, they are ready to shout
for joy.
But there are several passages which plainly de-
clare that we are saved by the grace of God, \vhich
should be noticed in this connection. Before these are
presented for your consideration, it
0
may be 1vell, in
order to guard against any misapprehension, to speak
briefly of the nature of salvation. "\Vhat is implied
by this word, and others of like import, should be
determined before we proceed.
I remark, first, that the terms sai'ed, salvation, and
others of similar signification, are used with great
frequency, and with such a degree of latitude, that
their precise meaning can only be kno\vn from the
connection. In the Scriptures and in popular Ian~
guage, they imply deliverance from the various evil~ ·
which surround us in the world-poverty and oppres-
sion, pain, disease, sorrow and death, or indeed, any
other danger or difficulty to which we are or may be
exposed. It would be easy to illustrate this point by
numerous examples from Scripture history-but this
is unnecessary, as all will admit that there are various
and almost innumerable evils from which we may be
saved. l\Ian is saved in a higher and holier sense,
when he is led to break off his sins by righteousness
-to rejoice in the promises, and to practice the pre-
cepts of the Gospel. These together comprehend
\vhat we may very properly term the special salvation
-present deliverance from sin and ignorance, and
other existing evils under which men labor, or to
142 SCRIPTURE
which they are exposed here in the world. This
salvation is, of necessity, made to depend upon the
faith and obedience of the creature ; and in this
general sense, we are required to work out our own
salvation with fear and trembling.
But the great salvation of the Gospel, in its highest
sense, relates to the future immortal condition of man.
It is full, free and universal. In this most important
sense, salvation is independent of all conditions
requiring human agency. It was secured from the
foundation of the world, in the eternal counsels of
Him " \vho will have all men to be saved." It is,
then, very necessary to observe this important dis-
tinction-to consider the connection in \vhich these
terms are found, and to exercise an intelligent discri-
mination and judgment. If they imply deliverance
from sin and ignorance here-from the power of our
enemies-from danger, or any other temporal evil-
if the salvation in any case is confined to this world,
then it may be dependent upon our faith, repentance,
obedience, good works, or in some lvay upon our own
exertions. But if it be the more perfect salvation of
the future immortal, incorruptible, and glorious state,
it depends alone upon the grace of God, from which
the Apostie concludes, that " if by grace, then it is
no more of \vorks."
The Seriptures to which I will nmv direct your
attention, treat of salvation in this last and most
important sense, as you will readily percei,re from the
fact, that it is not of works. "For by grace are ye
EVIDENCES. 143
saved through faith ; and that not of yourselves; it is
the gift ofGod. "13
" vVho hath saved us, and called
us with a holy calling, not according to our works,
but according to his own purpose and grace, which
was given us in Christ Jesus before the 'vorld began."14
" In whon_i 'vhom we have redemption through his
blood, the forgiveness of sins, according to the riches
of his grace."15
God, who is rich in mercy, for His
great love wherewith He loved us, even when we
were dead in sins, hath quickened us together with
Christ, .... that in the ages to come He might show
the exceeding riches of His grace."16
Others may
deny that we have any part in this salvation, yet with
an Apostle "'ve believe that through the grace of the
Lord Jesus Christ, we shall be saved, even as they."17
As this salrntion is of grace and not of works, it
follows that it is all of God, and man can do nothing
to deserve it. To suppose that it is dependent upon
any circumstances or conditions involving human
agency, is to reject the plain and unequivocal teach-
ings of the Bible. It is to give up the ground on
which the Christian rests his hope of salvation-to
deny all the direct Scripture proofs on this subject,
and to treat the Apostles andChrist himself as unworthy
of confidence. It is, moreover, to introduce imperfection
into the Didne administration, making His purposes
subservient to the will and agency of mortals, and
13. Eph. ii. 8.
16 Eph. ii. 4, 5, 7.
14. II Tim. i. 9.
17. Acts xv. 11.
15. Eph i. 7.
144 SCRIPTURE
invoh·ing all the great interests of eternity, in doubt
and uncertainty.
If you have faith in God-if He rules in earth and
heaven, and you haYe the least confidence in the
wisdom and benevolence of His administration, how
can you believe for one moment, that He has suspend-
ed your immortal interests, the vast concerns of His
government, the prosperity of His kingdom, and the
glory of His name, upon such strange contingencies 1
Are you prepared to say that God has no purpose, or
that man can prevent the accompljshment of His
designs 1 If not, \vhy all this doubt and hesitation,
and scepticism, on a subject so plain 1 Why not trust
in the redeeming grace of God 1 The foundation
will stand sure when your faith and works, and all
that you have, shall grow dim and pass away. 'Vhat
if you are distinguished for superior gifts and graces 1
What if you are more inclined to that which is good
than many others ?-God has made you what you are,
and to His name be all the glory. This idea of merit
in ourselves is an idle fancy, that will one day vanish
like the dream of a night. But if this salvation is
the gift of God, it certainly is not a reward for our
works. You will observe here a most important
distinction. A reward is anything given or re-
ceived as a compensation, or as an equivalent,
for anything conferred, performed or suffered; where-
as, a gift is something bestowed as a gratuity, for
which nothing is demanded in return. This great
EVIDENCES. 145
salvation is not a reward, but a gift, for 'vhich no
return can be given or expected. The Apostle does
not admit that the agency of man has anything to do
with this salvation. "By grace are ye saved, through
faith, [and then, lest man might claim in part the
glory of this work, he adds,] and ·that not of your-
selves, it is the gift of God. From the ir,dinite fullness
of His loYe, and the exceeding riches of His grace,
it is freely given-may it be gratefully received.
May the subject have its proper effect upon our hearts
and lives. \Vhile we meditate upon the love of Goel
and the exceeding riches of His grace, may the Spirit
be with us to direct our thoughts, that every rude
passion may be hushed to rest, and every kind affec-
tion warmed into new life. And as we look back
to the days of the Saviour, and contemplate the
scenes of the garden, the cross and the sepulchre,
and the sacred memories which come up from their
hallowed precincts are presented to our minds, oh !
may that Spirit which breathed upon the lonely Mount,
be around and vdthin us, like the breath of angels,
and the atmosphere of heaven !
14
DISCOURSE X.
SCRIPTURE E VIDENCES.
"\Vhat saith the Scripture ?"-ROMANS, IV. 3.
IN the present discourse we propose to call your
attention to those passages of Scripture, which indicate
the destruction of Evil. In a previous discourse it
was proved by arguments and illustrations drawn
from the nature of good and evil, that Good must
ultimately triumph, and that, in the progressiYe de-
velopment of truth and the human mind, the imperfect
condition which we denominate Evil must of necessity
come to an end.
It is well known that when things are only partially
deYeloped, they may appear to us to be evil, because we
do not fully understand their nature, and the ultimate
design of their existence. These are unfolded by
degrees, as every thing advances to a more perfect
condition. In this manner, all that we call evil will
finally be removed or destroyed; or we may express
the idea in the language of the Apostle-'' 'Vhen that
which is perfect is come, then that which is in part
shall be done away.''1
Nothing inconsistent with the
1. I Corinthians xiii. 10.
148 SCRll'TUTIE
Di,·ine nature-nothing opposed to the glory of God
and the happiness of His creatures can exist forever.
" It suits not the eternal laws of Good,
That eYil should Le immortal.:'
In the Scriptures, the truth is clearly set forth, that
evil will be destroyed. Christ is represented as fin-
ishing transgression, making an end of sin, and
bringing in everlasting righteousness. \Vhen John
beheld the iVIcssiah, he exclaimed, " Behold the
Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the
\'i·orld !"2
Now, if sin is to continue forever, it cer-
tainly will not be taken away. It cannot be remoYed
and at the same time remain. Take an illustration :
A husbandman sent his son to destroy the tares in a
certain field, knowing that he was able to perform
the work. But it appeared in the end that only a
fel\' were destroyed, while the greater part were left
to flourish undisturbed. The work was left unfinished
-the husban<lman entirely failed to accomplish his
purpose. That the tares 'iYere not removed or de-
stroyed, is rendered sufficiently evident from the fact
of their presence in the fiel<l. So in the case under
consideration. If the tares of sin and iniquity are
left to flourish, and to strike their roots deep into the
soil of the moral vineyard of God-if the field, which
is the world, is to be thus overgro'ivn and <lisfigur~d
forever, how can Christ be the Lamb of God 'ivhich
taketh away the sin of the world ? If the sin of the
~. John i. ~!).
EVIDENCES. 149
'vorld is taken1
a\Yay, it will no longer exist in the
1corld. This is self-eYident.
Again :-The Apostle affirms that " for this purpose
the Son of God was manifested, that he might destroy
the \Yorks of the devil. "3
By the works of the devil,
we may understand whatever is opposed to the Divine
nature and government-that which in the common
apprehension is evil or sinful. Hence the plain doc-
trine of this text is, that Christ will destroy all evil.
It is an evidence that neither the blindness of bigotry
or the ingenuity of sophistry can evade, to prove that
God, who alone is good, will destroy \Vhatever is
opposed to His own nature, and the glory of His
kingdom. "Every plant which my heavenly Father
hath not planted, shall be rooted up."4
It may be,
indeed, it must be, consistent 'vith the purpose of
God, that evil should exist for a season. You will
remember that when the man in the parable found
that there were tares among the wheat, he commanded
his servants to let both grow until the harvest, when he
would direct the reapers to separate them and bind the
tares in bundles to burn them. You will be particular
to notice, that Christ employed this parable to illus..
trate the very subject under consideration - the
manner in which he will proc.eed to destroy evil, or
the tares of the world. Sin will be permitted to
remain for a time, or until the harvest ; but in the
end-in the consummation of all things, evil will be
3. I John iii. 8. 4. Matthew xv. 13.
14N
150 SCRIPTURE
entirely destroyed, as the tares were consumed when
the harYest was gathered into the garner. How can
there be any controversy upon this point ? The truth
is abundantly sustained by the unequivocal teachings
of the sacred page. How can the Christian believe
that sin will reign and triumph here and hereafter ?
that it is destined to a perpetual existence, with all
its fearful consequences in the eternal world ? \Ve
may as well deny that life and immortality are
brought to light, as to question the truth that sin and
death are to be destroyed.
Again :-\Ve read that he took our nature upon
him " that through death he might destroy him that
had the power of death, that is, the devil. "5
Here
evil is personified, and from this testimony of Paul,
it appears that Christ will subdue the great enemy of
his cross, and bring every evil work to naught. The
deYil will be destroyed, his kingdom overthrown, and
his dungeon walls razed from their foundations. The
last enemy shall be destroyed-DEATH.6
The Lord
of Life shall triumph, and sin and death shall be the
trophies of his victory. "Then shall be brought to
pass the saying that is written, Death is swallowed
up in victory."7
Ignorance and moral darkness are represented in
the Scriptnres by a veil that is spread over the nations.
This veil is to be destroyed. " The Lord of Hosts
will make unto all people a feast of fat things ....
{j. Heb. ii. 14.. 6. I Cor. x\·. !26. 7. Verse 54.
EYIDENCES. 151
And he ·will destroy in this mountain the face of the
coYering cast over all people, and the veil that is
spread over all nations. "8
The Apostle employs this
figure to indicate the blindness of Israel. " But their
minds were blinded ; for until this day remaineth the
same veil, untaken away in the reading of the Old
Testament ; which veil is done away in Christ. But
enn unto this day, \vhen l\1oses is read, the veil is
upon their heart ; nevertheless, the veil shall be
taken away."9
The covering cast over all people
and the veil that is spread over all nations, will be
removed. That this implies salvation from death,
from sorrow and condemnation is evident from the
immediate connection. " He will swallow up death
in victory ; and the Lord God 'vill wipe away tears
from all faces ; and the rebuke of His people shall
He take a\vay from off all the earth; for the Lord
hath spoken iL" 10
Then sin and ignorance" darkness
and death, will no longer exist in the moral kingdom
of God. Life, and knowledge, and holiness will fill
the Universe. The veil destroyed, the glory of the
Eternal will illumine the soul, and the morning
twilight of man's spiritual being will be followed by
an eternal day, \Vhen God will be the light in which
every eye shall see Him as He is.
The salvation of all men is clearly taught in those
passages that speak of the reconciliation through
Christ. '' And all things are of God, who hath
8. Is1. XX\", 6, 7. 9. JI Cor. iii. 14-16. 10. l.sa. XX.\". 8.
152 SCRIPTURE
reconciled us to Himself, by Jesus Christ, ancl hath
given to us the ministry of reconciliation; to lvit,
that God was in Christ, reconciling the world unto
Himself, not imputing their trespasses unto them."u
" If when we were enemies, we were reconciled to
God by the death of His Son ; much more, being
reconciled, we shall be saved by his life." 12
"\Vhere-
fore in all things it behooved him to be made like
unto his brethren, that he might be a merciful and
faithful high priest in things pertaining to God, to
make reconciliation for the sins of the people."'3
H For it pleased the Father that in him should all
fullness dwell; and having made peace through the
blood of his cross, by him to reconcile all things unto
Himself; by him, I say, whether they be things in
earth, or things in heaven."14
All things in earth
and heaven, is a mode of expression which will
hardly admit of limitation. It properly comprehends
all intelligent beings. This universal reconciliation
through the mediation of Christ, is, therefore, another
evidence of the truth of the proposition, that God
will have all men to be saved.
The truth is clearly revealed in those passages
which speak of the extent and duration of Christ's
kingdom. " And a crown was given unto him ;
and he went forth conquering and to conquer."15
<' And there "\Vas given him dominion, and glory,
11. II Cor. v. 18, 19.
12. Ilom. v. 10.
13. Heh. ii. 17.
14. Col. i. rn, 20.
15. Rev. vi. 2.
EYIDENCES. 153
and a kingdom, that all people, nations and lan-
guages should serre him. His dominion is an
eYerlasting dominion, which shall not pass a'\Yay,
and his kingdom that ,,,hich shall not be destroy-
ed. " 16
This kingdom is not an out'\Yard, Yisible
empire, whose foundations are laid on crushed
hearts, and "\Yet with the blood and tears of millions !
Nay. It is inward and spiritual. It is established in
the human soul, and its Yery elements are "righteous-
ness and peace: and joy in the Holy Ghost. " 17
Christ
is to reign in the hearts of his people, and "~e read
that '' of the increase of his government and peace
there shall be no end. " 15
This great rnlrntion is further confirmed, by the
record which God has rriYen of His Son. "If we
n
recefre the witness of men, the witness of Gou js
greater ; for this is the witness of God which he hath
testified of his Son. He. that belieYeth on the Son of
God hath the \Yitness in himself; he that beliei.-eth
not God, hath made him a liar ; because he believeth
not the record that God gaYe of His Son. A:rn THIS
IS THE RECORD, THAT Gon HATH GIYE'N TO us ETER:\AL
LIFE; AXD THIS LIFE Is IX His Sox."19
It is especially worthy of remark, that the Didne
testimony in reference to the sah·ation of man, is, by
way of eminence, called " the Record that God gare of
His Son." It is \Yell that we are not left to misap-
prehend the nature of this record. It is written in
16. Dan. vii. U. 17. Rom. xiY Ii. 18. Isa. i.x. i. 19. I John v. 9-11.
154 SCRIPTURE
language so plain that to err in our conception of its
meaning is quite impossible. But it may be said that
this is only given to believers, or to the righteous-
that the wicked and unbelieving have no part or lot
in the matter. This is a great mistake. Christ came
not to call the righteous. When he appeared, all
were dead in trespasses and sins, and God hath
concluded them all in unbelief, that He might have
mercy upon all. "2
° Christ was offered for THE WORLD.
That eternal life, which is the gift of God, was in
him given to the world when all were lost. He did not
wait for men to become good before he entered upon
his mission. Christ and eternal life were not given
when man believed, but when he did not believe-
not on account of his righteousness, but because he
was most deeply alienated from God, by wicked works.
Our faith cannot change the fact. Let us briefly
illustrate this point. It is true that Christ lived-that he
taught the people-that he was crucified. These facts
do not depend upon faith. It is equally true that God
has giYen to the world eternal life in His Son. This
no more depends upon the faith of the creature, than
does the life, ministry and death of Christ. These
facts exist independently of the opinion or faith of
any man, or of the world. It is true, therefore, that
God has given us eternal life in His Son, and whether
we believe or deny the record, the fact is the same.
Thus you perceive, that while the faith of the creature
is made to depend upon the fact, the existence of the
20. Romans, xi. 32.
EVIDEXCES. 155
fact itself does not and cannot, in the nature of the
case, depend upon the contingency of faith. If God
has not given eternal life to the sinner-if his
immortality is to depend upon faith, then in order
to obtain it, he must believe that he has it. In
other words, he must believe a falsehood to secure his
salvation, and what is most singular, his faith renders
it truth. But this record 'vill not admit of any such
construction. It contains the positive evidence that
eternal life is the gift of God to the world. If we
question this truth, "~e virtually assume that God has
not given us a true and faithful record. " He that
believeth not God hath made Him a liar ; because he
believeth not the record that God gave of His Son.
And this is the _
record, that God hath given to us
eternal life, and this life is in His Son." l\Ien may
continue to object, but here stands the record of
Jehovah.-Here it "·ill remain, though all the world
prove faithless, and heaven and earth pass away.
These things are '' written, .... that ye may know
that ye have eternal life, and that ye may believe on
the name of the Son of God."
"\Vith these remarks on the record, we may next
consider so much of the Scripture testimony as relates
to the nature and condition of man in the future world.
Paul refers to the heavenly bodies to illustrate the
condition of mankind in the resurrection state. "There
is one glory of the sun, and another glory of the
21. I John v. 13.
156 SCRIPTURE
moon, and another glory of the stars ; for one star
differeth from another star in glory"-'' so also is the
resurrection of the dead. "22
You will be particular
to observe, that all the celestial bodies are here
represented as glorious. They differ in their magni-
tude and splendor, some possessing a more excellent
glory than others. Still, it is true that each and
every one of these has some degree of glory-" So,
also, is the resurrection of the dead." All are raised
'vith immortal, incorruptible and glorious bodies, yet
differing in degree, as the sun, moon and stars differ
in their light and magnitude. The Apostle is here
speaking of mankind in general, without reference to
their character or condition while on earth. He
represents all as being raised to glory and immortality.
Speaking of the intelligent creation, he says, " It is
SO"\vn in corruption, it is raised in incorruption ; it is
sown in dishonor, it is raised in glory; it is so-wn in
weakness, it is raised in po,ver; it is sown a natural
body, it is raised a spiritual body."23
Here \Ve have
another proof of the great salYation. This clearly
indicates the nature of the change. It is from cor-
ruption to incorruption-from weakness to power-
from a natural to a spiritual body-from dishonor to
glory. All are destined to experience this change.
''Behold I show you a mystery; we shall not all
sleep, but we shall all be changed. As we have borne
the image of the earthy, we shall also bear the image
22. I Cor. xv. 41, 42. 23. Verses 42-44.
EVIDENCES. 157
of the heavenly-For this corruptible must put on
incorruption, and this mortal must put on immortali-
ty. "24
The plain doctrine of the Apostle, as taught
in this passage is, that as all men are created at first
in the likeness of Adam, or the representative of man
in his earthly condition-so shall all in like manner
be created anew in the image of Christ-that as all
the heaYenly bodies are glorious in a greater or less
degree, so in the world to come, all will be raised to
life and glory and 'viii shine forth as the sun and stars
in the firmament.
The great Teacher has also described the future
dignity and glory of man, in reply to a question of
the Sadducees concerning the resurrection. The
Sadducees did not believe in this doctrine, and they
reasoned from the supposition that if man was to be
raised at all, it must be with his present imperfect
nature and condition, and that he would still be sub-
ject to the various relations, appetites and passions
peculiar to his present mode of being. Filled with
this low and earthly conception of the subject they
drew near and inquired of the Master, whose lvife
the woman would be in the resurrection, who had
seven husbands. "Jesus ans\verPd and said unto
them, ye do err, not knowing the scriptures, nor the
the power of God. For in the resurrection they
neither marry nor are given in marriage, neither can
they die any more, for they are equal unto the angels,
21. I Cor. xv. 4.9, 51, 53.
15
158 SCRIPTURE EVIDENCES.
and are the children of God, being the children of
the resurrection."25
Christ is here speaking of the
resurrection of mankind universally, without any
distinction of character or condition. To say the
least, he cannot be supposed to refer to believers. If
you deny the universal application of this language,
it must be understood as having special reference to
the woman and her seven husbands. The question,
then is, were they believers ? And we have a suffi-
cient answer in the immediate connection-" The
same day came to him the Sadducees, which say that
there is no resurrection," and a:fter commencing the
interview by a reference to the sayings of Moses,
they introduced the particular subject of their inquiry
as follows:-" Now there were with us, seven breth-
ren." These persons were, therefore, of the sect of
the Sadducees, who '-Vere unbelievers, and hence it
follows that, whether you admit the unlimited appli-
cation of the Saviour's language, or restrict it to these
individuals, the fact is established by the authority of
the Son of God, that unbelievers will be rairnd to an
immortal life, crowned with glory, and made equal to
the angels of God in heaven.
May the purity and glory of this great truth be
exemplified in our lives, that we may be wise unto
salvation. Thus shall we reverence the most Holy
One, and exhibit the redeeming energy of His truth
and love. Zion ·will rejoice and be glad, and her
harps will be tuned to loftier notes of praise.
25. Matthew xxii. 29, 30. Luke xx. 36.
DISCOURSE XI.
• THE PHILOSOPHY OF PUNISHMENT.
"And this is the condemnation, that light is come into the world, and
men lo,•ed darkness rather than light."-JOHK III. 10.
THE word condemnation, and others derived from the
same original, are frequently employed in the New
Testament. The same word is variously rendered
judgment, condemnation and damnation. These
words are severally supposed to refer to some outward,
arbitrary infliction, having little relation to the nature
of man and the sphere of his present existence.
It is not my purpose to inquire into the grounds of
the popular misapprehensio"
n. It is sufficient to ob-
serve in this place that the idea of a fearful retribution
has for a long time been associated with these \\rords.
If it be granted that these terms are properly under-
stood-that the idea of punishment is clearly conveyed,
and that this is authorized by the Scripture use of
krises, the original Greek word, it does not thence
follow that the infliction is arbitrary in its character,
and future in its administration. \Ve may admit that
punishment is fairly implied, yet this will not affect
the question as to its nature, and the time of its
infliction. The idea that the disobedience of a mo-
160 THE PHILOSOPHY
ment is to be followed with immortal pains-that the
sins committed in the earth are to be punished with
endless imprisonment in hell, can never be made to
harmonize with Nature or ReYelation. It is no less
opposed to the results of enlightened reason and
philosophical induction. The penalty ·bears no pro·
portion to the offense, and the one has ijO proper
dep0ndance upon or relation to the other.
The Universe is governed in all its departments by
wise and immutable laws. These are not the less
harmonious and equal in their operation, because they
are not clearly defined and understood by man. For
every \Tiolation of the natural and organic laws, we
are punished. This punishment is not an incidental
and arbitrary infliction at the hands of the Lawgiver.
On the contrary, it is the natural result of transgres·
sion-the legitimate and inevitable consequence of
the infringement. Besides, it is worthy of remark,
that here, we always find a due proportion and
correspondence between the cause and the conse-
quence, or in other words, the offense and the
penalty. Even in human governments, imperfect as
they are, there is more of lvisdom and benevolence
perceptible than the Divine Administration presents,
when viewed through the distorted medium of the
prevailing theology. If our judiciary powers were to
inflict the same punishment upon all offenders, without
reference to circumstances or the turpitude of their
actions-if the murderer, the thief, the hypocrite, the
profane and thoughtless, as well as the morally good
OF PUNISHI\IENT. 161
and upright, were indiscriminately consigned to the
same dungeon, and for an equal period, we should all
acknowledge the government to be unjust and oppres-
sive. Such a government and such rulers would be
equally destitute of wisdom and benevolence. And
yet, those who are wise in the opinion of the Church
and in their own conceit, have no higher conception
of the Divine character and administration. They
suppose that all who are lost lvill be confined in one
dungeon-that they ·will sink do\Yn together into the
unfathomable depths of the same bottomless pit, and
that the period of suffering ·will be the same in all
cases. This idea aims to destroy all distinctions in
wickedness-it recognizes no difference in the moral
character of those who are supposed to be lost. It
dooms the moralist, and even the little child, who is
conscious of but a single fault, to the same destiny
with the wretch whose life is stained with a thousand
crimes. A man may deluge this fair earth with blood
-spread desolation and ruin over the scene of popu-
lous kingdoms, and yet he 'vill suffer no longer than
the good moral man. Should a civil magistrate
administer punishment in this way, he would be
hurled from the judgment seat and condemned as a
criminal.
But we have a lesson, more beautiful and truthful,
confirmed by the impressive teachings of Nature and
and the voice of Revelation. From these, we learn
that the Government of God is founded in wjsdom ;
and that His laws are equal and just-that in the
150
162 THE PHILOSOPHY
righteous administration of His government, "He
will give to every man according as his work shall
be." His chastisements bear a due proportion to the
demerit of our offences. Indeed, the natural conse·
quence of the action is, in the Divine administration,
the proper penalty of the lmv. It follows, therefore,
that every transgression and disobedience will receirn
a just recompense of re·ward, as truly as that every
cause is followed by its corresponding effect. This
idea I propose to illustrate and enforce in the present
discourse. Here it may be well to call your attention
to certain established laws, and to. notice the conse·
quences of their infringement.
It is well known that the human system requires a
constant supply of nutriment. This is necessary to
snstain the body-to supply the deficiency occasioned
by insensible perspiration and otherwise-to increase
the vital fluids, and to fill the numberless channels
through which health and vitality are carried to every
part of the system. This is an organic law of our
nature, and its observance is not only indispensable
to the vigorous and healthy action of the several
organs, but it is essential to life itself. Deprive the
body of sufficient and suitable nutrition, and it will
begin to languish, and all its powers will be enfeebled.
In this case, the consequences will bear a strict pro·
portion to the nature and magnitude of the ,offense.
If the violation be of a trifling character, the conse·
quence will be a slight functional derangement and
temporary weakness. But if this infringement be
OF PUNISHl\IENT. 163
absolute in itself, and at the same time protracted
indefinitely, it wm finally result in the prostration of
all the physical powers, and the disorganization of the
whole animal economy. In other \Vords, if the body
be deprived of food for a sufficient length of time, it
will become weak and powerless and death will ensue-.
This la'v may be violated in another \my. If poison
were mingled with our daily food, the natural opera-
tions of nature would be interrupted. The conse-
quence would be pain and uneasiness -a disordered
and spasmodic action of the system-disease would
follow, and in the end, life would be destroyed.
Here we discoYer a principle which has all the force
of an invariable law. It is, too, as much a law of
Di,·ine institution and authority as any recorded in
the Bible. But you perceive that in this case the
penalty is not a direct arbitrary infliction from God ;
nor is the punishment deferred till an indefinite
future period. On the contrary, it is the imme-
diate and natural consequence of this violation of
the organic law. Here is a natural and obvious
connection between the cause ancl effect, or the
transgression and the penalty. There is, therefore,
a reasonableness and philosophical propriety in the
infliction, which must be apparent to every enlighten-
ed mind. But is it reasonable to suppose that a man
\Vill be endlessly miserable in hell, because in this
world he refuses to eat, and starYes to death, or
indeed, because he violates any other la\v of his
nature 1 Certainly not. \Vith as much propriety you
164 TUE PIIILOSOPHY
may send a man to the penitentiary ten years hence for
burning his fingers to-day. If, in this case, there is no
natural and philosophical connection bet\veen the trans-
gression and the punjshment, so there is not in the other.
The infliction is, therefore, arbitrary and unjust-
contrary to reason and the constitution of things, and
withall, opposed to the wisdom and benevolence of
the Divine Administration. Suppose an individual
travelling a dangerous road, should choose to prose-
cute his journey in the night. 'Ve read, " if a man
walk in the night, he stumbleth, because there is no
light in him." Now if our traveller should fall by
the ·way and fracture a bone, you would never deem
it right and proper, after an interval of twenty years,
to imprison him for the remainder of his natural life.
Yet this is not more unreasonable and absurd than to
suppose that the ancient Pharisees, for example, are
now shut up in hell because eighteen hundred years
ago, they persecuted the l\Iaster. In both cases,
there is evidently no possible connection between the
conduct of the offender and the punishment he
receives. It is inferred that some men will be mise-
rable in the future ·world, because they are wicked
here. If the argument has any force, it will equally
well apply to all, for all have sinned. But the
conclusion is unauthorized by the premises, and the
whole argument in favor of endless hell torments, as
predicated upon the moral conduct of men in this life
is illogical and unsound. The traveller, in the
jllustration, experienced the painful consequences of
OF PUNISHI\'IENT. 165
his folly in the personal injury he sustained. A
broken limb was the penalty of his imprudence.
There was a better way; "Jesus answered, are there
not t\velve hours in the day? If any man ·walk in
the day, he stumbleth not, because_he seeth the light
of this world." But this man chose to walk in dark-
ness, and this is the condemnation, that light is come
into the world, and men loved darkness rather than
light.
Another organic law requires that all the po\vers
of the body be properly exercised. Health and
strength are found in action, not in ease. 'Vithout
suitable exercise, the organs of the body \vould grad-
ually lose their power and their appropriate functions
would be inadequate!y performed. \Vhen this is the
case, the consequences are \Veakness of the muscular
system, nervous irritability, and a fearful train of
diseases incident to a life of inactivity. Here, as in
in the former case, there is an indissoluble connection
between the offense and its appropriate punishment.
The penalty has a special and definite relation to the
nature of the transgression, and it follows as the
natural consequence of the same. Let muscular mo-
tion be suspended, and in one year, the strong arm
would become \Yeak and powerless. For this infringe-
ment of the law, the offender would probably be
depriYed of the use of his limbs, a penalty corres-
ponding to the nature of his demerits, and quite
sufficient without the imaginary woes of the future.
166 THE PHILOSOPHY
The same is true of the mind. Exercise is neces-
sary to the proper development of its powers. All
the faculties become strong and vigorous by being
suitably employed. This is an organic law of the
mind, and it operates as invariably as those that
relate to the body. As exercise is necessary to the
perfection of our powers, whether of body or mind,
so it is likewise the secret of success in every enter-
prise. Obedience to this law is ever rewarded with
physical strength and intellectual energy, and every
violation is punished with bodily \veakness and men-
tal imbecility.
It is by the constant exercise of the po\vers of
locomotion, that the traveller is enabled to accomplish
his journey. The mind is exercised in the production
of thought and feeling. It soars above the eagle's
flight, and, from the dizzy eminence descends to th.e
unmeasured depths below. It was by the exercise of
these powers, that Homer and Shakspeare gained the
lofty summits of Parnassus. Thus, Franklin tra-
versed the region where the storms gather. The
tempest was his pavilion-the dark clouds were his
chariot, and the winged lightnings were in his grasp.
In this manner, too, Newton was prepared to unfold
to the world the sublime mysteries of Nature, when
"All lier works lay hid in night."
It is evident that man is rewarded or punished
as he acts in harmony with, or in opposition to,
the laws of his being. It is a fact, that our condi-
OF PUNISHl\IENT. 167
tion of pleasure or pain is made to de.pend upon the
exercise of our powers. \Vhen wisely e~erted, they
are so many springs of happiness, uninterrupted and
ever new. The world appears beautiful and glorious
to such a man. He sees the impartial benevolence
of Goel in the sun and in the rain-in the green earth
and the crystal waters-the winds i;vhisper of Him-
the pale moon light is a dim reflection of His glory,
and the <listant stars appear to his Yision like the soft
eyes of angel sentinels, that watch oYer the slumber-
ing \vorld. All Nature smiles before him, and her
ten thousand voices penetrate the lone depths of the
spirit,
'· Uutw;:;tiug a'.l tl1e chains that tic,
The hidden soul of harmon r."
If we fail to cultivate and improve the higher
faculties of our nature, we suffer the immediate
consequences of our neglect. Our happiness is. limit-
ed by the partial deYelopment of these powers. There
is a \Yant of mental strength and nervous energy-a
growing indisposition to vigorous effort, accompanied
by an unnatural and diseased action of the whole
system. This is as true of the mind as of the body.
There can be no doubt as to the correctness of this
principle, or the propriety of its general application.
Here you observe, that \vhcther our powers are wisely
or improperly exercise<l, every action is sure to produce
its corresponding effect. \Vhether this be favorable
or adverse to our present happiness, depends upon the
nature of the action. The idea which these remarks
168 TIIE PHILOSOPHY
o.re intended to illustrate, and which I \Vish to impress
upon the mind, is this :-Punishment under the Divine
administration is not a future, arbitrary infliction. It
is confined to the sphere of our present existence. And
where should we expect to gather in the harvest of
mingled pleasure and pain consequent upon our
doings, but in this world, the field of our labors ?
\:\That lies beyond, is of God, and not of us. Those who
look to the future \vorld for their appropriate recom-
pense, expect to reap where they have not so\vn.
The idea is alike unphilosophical and unscriptural.
It aims to interrupt the oLvious and necessary relation
bet\.veen our actions and their appropriate consequen-
ces. "\Ye may as well attempt to separate the pain
from. the disease. There is an essential and eternal
union here which cannot be dissolved. Then, let it
be remembered that, in the moral conduct of men
and their rewards and punishments, there is a natural
connection of cause and effect. If we but rightly
improve our time and faculties, '\Ve shall be happy.
There are springs of the most refined and elevated
enjoyment ever open to those who seek wisdom.
Let us suppose the case of one who had every oppor-
tunity to become acquainted with the various branches
of natural science. By a proper use of his faculties,
and a judicious improvement of his superior advan-
tages he might have been wise and useful ; but he
lived and died in ignorance. In what way is this
man punished for his ungrateful neglect of Heaven's
blessings, and the misapplication of his own powers?
OF PUNISHl\IENT. 169
It is true this man hid his talent in the earth, and
you are authorized to say that he is obnoxious to
punishment. ·A wise reference to his own interest
and happiness would have led him to seek knowledge
and understanding. In the researches of the Geolo-
gist and the sublime investigations of the Astrono-
mer, he would have found new cause to reverence
God, to admire His works, and to observe His laws-
All these incentives to a life of obedience and devo·
tion were lost in his case through his own neglect,
and the misimprovement of his time. "'\Vithout doubt
the popular Theology "·ould send this man to hell
because he did not study Astronomy! But we may
dispose of his case in a manner that will far better
accord with the philosophy of Nature and the Bible.
This man never worshiped God among the stars !
He never enjoyed those higher and holier communi-
cations of knowledge and happiness which he might
have received. It would be little short of madness
to suppose that he would be sent to hell forever be-
cause he did not improve his mind. "\Ve might as
well conclude that he lrnuld come under the same
condemnation for neglecting to exercise the members
of his body. But the nature of his punishment, and
its proper place in the order of time and circumstances
can hardly be a matter of controversy. In this case,
as well as in the others I have mentioned, the conse-
quences \Vere immediate and sure. In the pursuit of
unworthy objects, he lost sight of the perfection and
glory of which his nature was susceptible. He
16
170 THE PHILOSOPHY
stopped short of the lofty eminence which he might
have attained, leaving the treasures of superior light
and knowledge to be enjoyed by the faithful and true.
Here the proper punishment, as well as its relation to
and dependence upon the conduct of the man, are
clearly seen. There \Vas light for him, but he loved
darkness or ignorance, " And this is the condemna-
tion, that light is come into the world, and men loved
darkness rather than light."
This course of reasoning will apply to the moral
and religious nature of man. In the teachings of the
Master, we find an instructive parable which will
serve as an illustration of the subject. " A certain ~
man made a great supper, and bade many; and sent
his servant at supper time to say to them that were
bidden, Come, for all things are no\v ready." 1
But it
appears that for various and unimportant reasons, the
persons invited did not attend. Now in what way
were they punished f~r their wicked ingratitude and
obstinacy 1 What is the penalty for refusing to
attend a feast 1 How \Vere these men made to suffer
the consequences of their folly 1 The answer is
plain :-They were shut out from the light and beauty
of the banqueting hall, and deprived of all the plea-
sures of a sumptuous entertainment. This answer,
which may be drawn from the parable itself, clearly
indicates the nature of the punishment. You will
observe that the figure of a great supper is here em-
ployed to represent the Gospel, and the nature of the
1. See Luke, chapter xiv.
OF PUNISHl\IENT. 171
punishment is strongly implied in the language of the
Saviour:-" For I say unto you, that none of those
men which were bidden shall taste of my supper."
Here we have the true idea of the punishment.
From the very nature of the case, the disobedient
and irreligious man is shut out from this great feast.
He is self-banished from God and the glory of His
pow·er. He is not disposed to seek the lofty eminence
where the votaries of Truth quench their thirst at the
mountain rill; but is content to drink from the muddy
pools and marshy glens below. His happiness is less
refined and elevated in its nature. There are springs
of moral life and spiritual rest and peace, which are
all unknown to him-they exist in God. If the
moral sentiments are neglected and forgotten-if the
religious faculties are not employed in gratitude and
praise and adoration, 'Ye may expect as the natural
consequence that our lo-re will grow cold-that we
shall lose the moral po\ver and spiritual strength
we possess, and that darkness and insensibility will
follow instead of the true light and the excellent
glory.
\Ve have had occasion to observe in substance, that
the exercise of our powers, ·whether of body or mind,
is essential to their strength and preservation ; also,
that every infringement of this law is followed by its
immediate and appropriate punishment. The analogy
holds good in the present application of the argument.
As ~ur highest happiness results from the proper and
172 THE PHILOSOPHY
healthy action of the moral and religious facultie~,
so, if these are neglected or improperly exercised,
they become the source of uneasiness and pain. Sin
and unbelief are punished with present condemnation:
" The wicked are like the troubled sea, when it
cannot rest. "2
This condemnation is not in the future.
" He that believeth not is condemned already."3
And
the nature of this condemnation is clearly defined in
in the text. This alone is revealed in Nature and
Revelation, and confirmed by the experience of every
man. The sinner may as well attempt to flee from
himself as to escape from this condemnation. It is
ever present-and
" Conscience, while she seems to sleep
On rose and myrtle, lull'd with syren song,
* * * * *
- Ree, from behintl her secret stand,
The sly informer minutes everr fault,
And Ler dread diary with horror fills.
* * * * ~
Thou tremendous power !
Who dost inhabit us without our leave;
And art within ourselves another self,
A master self, that loves to domineer,
And treat the monarch frankly as the slave!
How do:t thou light a torch to distant deecls?
l\Iake the pa,t, present, and the future frown?
How even and anon, awake the soul,
As with a peal of thunder, to strange horrors?"
Let the sinner remember that his condemnation is
not removed from the present to the far distant future..
' His damnation slumbereth not'-' He is condemned
already,' ' and this is the condemnation, that light
2. Isaiah Iviii. 20. 3. John iii. 8. ·
I
OF PUNISHMENT. 173
is come into the world and men love darkness.' Oh,
is it not enough that the sinner is left to wander amid
the gloom and darkness of ignorance and moral night!
'Vill you say he is not punished when he is without
light and without hope in the \vorld 1 Is it well with
him when he can find no rest ?-View him when the
pale ghosts of innocence and virtue \vitness his fever-
ish slumbers. The night brings no repose, for 'there
is no .peace to the wicked.' vVhen the morning
dawns, his frightful visions give place to the more
fearful reality. Light shines upon the world, but his
soul is dark. In every foot-fall he hears the sentence
of condemnation. The ten thousand voices of Nature
speak to him but the language of reproach ; and
every leaf that trembles in the breeze, but makes him
tremble too! There is no escape from this condemnam
tion. vVhen the lone wanderer in a desert land, shall
quench his thirst with the burning sands beneath his
feet-when the weary pilgrim shall find sweet repose
on a couch of thorns, or in the midst of devouring
flames ; then the sinner may expect to find rest and
joy in transgression. As you reverence the Author of
your existence and would secure your own happiness,
observe the Divine requirements, and remember that
darkness, tribulation and anguish, are the present
portion of the wicked.
0, walk in vVisdom's \Vays, and thy peace shall be
as a river, and thy righteousness as the waves of the
sea. If we thus act and liv~ , we shall not seek in
16P
174 THE PHILOSOPHY OF PUNISHMENT.
in vain for water in a barren land. The windows of
heaven will be open to us, and the fountain of our
rest and joy will be as a mighty flood. Then we
:.hall walk in the green pastures, and beside the still
waters of life and salvation. We shall enjoy com-
munion with God, and that delightful unity among
ourselves, which is more precious than " the dew of
Hermon, that ascended upon the mountains of Zion.''
Here I present you with the great moral lesson to be
drawn from this subject:
- - " Vice e\·er brings its own punishment,
And Virtue alone is happiness below.n
DISCOURSE XII&
CONCLUSION.
,, Let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter."-EccL. XII. 13.
THERE is a disposition among men to distrust the
benevolent purposes of the Divine Being. God is
true, but man is faithless. His unbelief is sufficient
to disturb his present peace, and to overshadow his
future destiny with the deepest gloom. ''Then the
soul is dark, the creature is unhappy. To enlighten
the human understanding-to strengthen the weak-
to confirm the highest hopes of humanity, and to
further the knowl~dge of the glory of God, is the
appropriate business of the Christian ministry. 'Ve
indulge the hope that an earnest though humble effort
may subserve the interests of this cause. If we have
been unable to commend the truth to every man's
conscience, it is still possible that our labor has not
been in vain. Before we close this discussion and
submit the subject, it ''"ill be necessary to present a
summary of the evidence on which your decision
should rest. From our present point of observation,
we may command, at a single view, the entire ground
of the argument. This will enable you to form an
176 CONCLUDING
intelligent judgment. It now only remains for us to
"hear the conclusion of the whole matter."
In the first discourse, it was our object to illustrate
the inefficacy of the old Theological Systems and
the various theories in morals and religion. "\Ve had
occasion to observe, that little comparatively had been
accomplished for man, either to improve his disposi-
tion, character or external condition. From the
present state of society, and other facts and circum·
stances, it was rendered evident that certain means
have been long and faithfully employed, without any
important results ; that these have failed to renovate
the world-to elevate the standard of the public
morals-to purify the heart or to correct the outward
life. We ventured to propose other principles of
action-to hint at other means and measures. The
world has followed its old ways long enough. After
the experience of so many ages spent in fruitless
effort, we deemed it proper to adopt a higher rule of
life, and inconsistent to reject the principle by which
we proposed to govern, without the test of an actual
experiment.
We were then prepared to assume our position and
advance our peculiar idea. As God is the acknow-
ledged source of all being, 'from whom, and .through
whom, and to whom, are all things,' it was proper to
reason first from His nature. Accordingly the several
ATTRIBUTES OF THE DIVINE BEING were successively
employed as the ground of the argument. In every
DISCOURSE. 177
case, we were led to the same conclusion. \Ve rea-
soned from different points to one point. It was made
to appear that God must, of necessity, be present with
every creature He has made ; also, that His works
possess those characteristics which render them illus-
trative of His goodness and wisdom-that there is in
all, a benevolent design and a complete subserviency
of the means to the end.
This reasoning was applied to humanity. \Ve
think the fact was rendered sufficiently evident, that
if the two essential characteristics of wisdom are
united in the last and noblest work of the Creator,
the result is certain, and man must be saved. It was
further maintained, that as God is Almighty, He can
accomplish His purpose, or execute whatever His love
may prompt and His wisdom devise. \Ve were made
acquainted with the fact that this wisdom is from
above, because it is "without partiality." Our attention
was called to the evidence that God is impartial in
the bestowment of His blessings, causing His sun to
shine on the evil and on the good, and sending rain
on the just and on the unjust. It was proved that the
mercy of the Lord endureth forever-that the nature
and disposition of mercy is to pity and forgive the
offender, and to relieve his sufferings. \Ve ventured to
assume what all must admit, that God is perfectly
just. The next step was to prove that the justice of
God requires the rectitude of man-that the claims
of justice will only be secured when all men become
178 CONCLUDING
Thus it appears, that infinite justice is incompatible
with endless disobedience-that every child of God
must do justly-that all must finally be made holy, or .
the demands of justice be unsatisfied forever. To
give additional force to the argument, it was contend·
ed that God is immutable-that as He was merciful
and long·suffering in the beginning, He will be no
less so in the end-that His nature is "ever the same,
while His purposes admit of no change or modification.
The several attributes united, form the Divine Nature
which was proved to be love. As "God is love," and
as He is ever present in all places, and with all His
creatures, it was our privilege to rest in a most
happy conclusion :-God can no more withhold His
love from a single soul than He can withdraw His
all-pervading presence from a part of the Universe.
Your attention· was next called to the Won.Ks OF
NATURE. It was our object to illustrate and enforce
the truth that the being, the \Yisdom and the goodness
of Goel " are clearly seen, being understood by the
things that are made. It was contended first, that the
creation proves the existence of an infinite Intelligence.
That if the \vorks of art, from the simplest to the most
complicated, convey to our minds the idea of mental
agency-if the structure is proof of the existence of
a builder who had the wisdom to conceive, and the
power to accomplish his design ; surely, the creation
should be regarded as the work of One who had infi-
nite love to move, unerring wisdom to direct, and
DISCOURSE. 179
almighty power to execute. By this course of illus-
tration, we were led to the Apostle's conclusion, "He
that built all things is God." The second part of our
argument, as derived from this source, was designed
to show that the existence, the arrangement and the
harmony of the Universe-that Universal Nature in
all her stupendous operations, is co.nstantly tending to
one great result-life and happiness. Thus the only
logical conclusion was seen to favor our idea.
HaYing proceeded thus far, it was thought proper
to inquire jnto the NATURE OF Goon AND Ev1L, with
a view to determine which would be likely to triumph.
God was presented to us as the Author of all things
-the ultimate source of all life, motion, sensation
and intelligence -as the original Cause of all causes,
in whom was the germ of all existences. Man and
every thing in nature was supposed to be subject to
the law of gradual development and progressive life ;
hence all at the beginning are imperfect. Goon was
admitted to be a Positive Principle, while it was
assumed that Evil implies merely a negative state-
the absence of Good. It was our object to prove that
one is in its nature eternal, and that the other is of
necessity temporary. \Ve trust it was made to appear
that while Good is the GREAT FmsT CAUSE, claiming
an independent existence, Evil is only that imperfect
condition of things in which they are not sufficiently
advanced to disclose the ultimate design. Our idea
is well expressed by the poet-
180 CONCLUDING
" There is but one great right nnd good ; and ill
An<l wrong are shades thereof, not substances;
Nothing can be antagonist to God."
Good being an indestructible principle, and Evil an
unsettled condi6on, we were authorized to conclude
that Good will ultimately triumph. Thus God will
be all in all, and man be purified and saved.
The next argument for the holiness and consequent
happiness of man, was derived from his own nature.
Four distinct propositions were employed :-First, the
universal desire for immortal life and happiness. As
the Creator has made sufficient provision for the wants
of all His creatures-as He openeth His hand and
satisfieth the desire of every living thing, it was
inferred that He will not disappoint the earnest expec-
tation of the spirit.
Second :-Man was proved to be a progressive
being. He was supposed to possess faculties and
capacities susceptible of almost endless expansion-
interior powers that find their appropriate exercise in
the purest thoughts and the loftiest aspirations-a
deathless nature !-yet one that cannot live without
"the bread of God," " which cometh down from
heaven." The argument in this form is deemed con-
clusive. However imperfect the creature may be he is
still subject tothe same la'v of progressive development.
The powers of his inward being will be gradually
unfolded. He is destined to receive higher and still
higher degrees of spiritual illumination, until he is
qua1ified to rejoice amid the light and glory which
D1SCOURSE. 181
eye hath not seen or the heart of man conceived.
Every thing is imperfect at the beginning, but every
thing must go on to perfection. The little blade will
develop a grain that is precious. The seed deposited
by the winds will yield a fruit that is pleasant to the
taste. The little acorn will become an oak. It doth
not yet appear what we shall be. \Vhat if \Ye find
man low and grovelling? This is but the rudimental
state-the first stage of his progress. He may be an
animal now-a worm-but' there is an immortal germ
in him, and he shall be an angel of God !
The adaptation of the creature to its proper sphere,
through all the gradations of being, was next assumed
as the foundation of the argument. It was observed that
in the nature of animals, and the physical constitution
of man, there is a manifest reference to the externai.
world. Every living thing is fitted to its appropriate
place ; but there is no special adaptation of the spirit
to earth. It will live and enjoy a higher life, when
"the earthly house of this tabernacle is dissolved."
There is a better country, that is a heavenly-that is
the spirit's home. As the Divine Love and Wisdom
have furnished a suitable element-a sphere and a
habitation for every creature of this lo\ver \Vorld,-
so there must be higher spheres for celestial beings.
In our" Father's house are many mansions"-a place is
prepared for you. The force of the argument in thfr~
case depends on what appears to be an invariable law
of Nature. So far as our observations extend, it is a
17
182 CONCLUDING
settled principle of the Divine economy, and hence
the truth in its application to man is confirmed.
Under the fourth proposition, it was made to appear,
that the tendency to eYil has its existence in the aninzal
nature-that the spirit is pure-fitted to enjoy the
presence of God and to delight in His law, even while
another law is seen warring in the members. As
the flesh with all its lusts, must perish here, and
cannot inherit the life to come, the inference was
drawn, that man will be delivered from the body of
this death, and be led by the Spirit to his immortal
inheritance.
The next eYidence of the truth of our ·idea 'vas
derived from the DIVINE PATERNITY. God is the
universal Father. He sustains this relation to the
spirits of all flesh. "\Ve had occasion to speak of the
law which binds the parent to love and protect his
offspring. It \Vas assumed that the obligation does
not in any way depend on the conduct of the child,
or any peculiarities of its disposition and character.
It was proved to exist as a necessary part of the
Divine economy in Nature. From these premises,
we were led, by a course of inductive reasoning, to
the only rational conclusion, that our heavenly Father
will not and cannot abandon His children. As the
obligation is of Divine institution and authority, God
will not deny Himself by acting contrary to its
requirements. His love will remain unchanged, and
His benediction will rest on the 'rnndering prodigal
while he is yet far from the mansion of his Father.
DISCOURSE. 183
Another illustration of our idea was found in the
l\IrssION OF CHRIST. In the nature, the design and
the end of that great enterprise-in the view of its
Divine origin and glorious consummation, we felt a
deeper conviction-in the magnitude of his work, the
purity of his principles, the fullness of his love, and
the serenity of his mind-in short, in the living
example of a PERFECT l\IAN, there is much to streng-
then our faith and hope, and to warm our affections.
\Ve see '"'hat humanity may become-what man is
when his interior nature is unfolded, and his spiritual
powers are freely and divinely exercised. In the
knowledge of what Christ was, we have a beautiful
conception of what we shall be. "\Ve must "grow
up into him in all things," "unto a perfect man,
unto the measure of the stature of the fullness of
Christ."
As the course of reasoning pursued in the illustra-
tion of our idea, had been mainly of a philosophical
character, it remained to support our conclusions by a
direct appeal to the SCRIPTURES. vVe have present-
ed the testimony from this source, and if in your
judgment there is no other or higher authority, you
must abide the decision. \Ve trust it was made to
appear to the satisfaction of all, that the will and
pleasure ·of God is the sa!vation of the world ; and
that His promise and oath are pledged for the accom-
plishment of His purpose. In the second place, it
was proved from the Scriptures that, the blessings to
be enjoyed in Christ will far exceed in number and
184 CONCLUDING
magnitude the evils of transgression, so that where
sin abounded grace shall much more abound. All
who have suffered the consequences of the offense
will receive and enjoy the fruits of obedience. All
who were made· sinners shal~ be made righteous, and
those who have received the wages of sin, which is
death, will possess the gift of God, which is eternal
life. It was further proved, that the great salvation
which comprehends the immortal joys of the world
to come, depends not on human agency, but the
ability of God to accomplish His purpose. It is "not
of works, lest any man should boast;" but " by
grace, to the end the promise might be sure to all."
Again, the scripture writers declare that the sin of
the world shall be taken away, and everlasting right-
eousness brought in. God will destroy the veil and
the covering that is spread over the nations-swallow
up death in victory, and reconcile the world unto
Himself. The kingdom of Christ is represented as
universal. "All people" shall" serve him," and of the
" increase of his government and peace there shall be
no end." If, according to the record, " God hath
given to us eternal life, "-if, in the future world all
men will be clothed upon with immortal and glorious
bodies, and possess the nature of angels, this is all
-
that we can desire, and the light of this faith must
fill the soul with joy unspeakable.
Even in the nature of punishment we have an
evidence of the truth of our general proposition.
Men are recompensed in the earth. The intimate
DISCOURSE. 185
connection between every action and its appropriate
consequence is plainly discernible, so that the autho-
rity of Revelation is sanctioned by an enlightened
philosophy.
Here we propose to leave the argument. You are
not required to rest your faith on ·
" Trifles light as air."
You have evidence before you which, fo our jud.gment,
IS
" confirmation strong
As proofs of Holy "\Vrit."-
From the Attributes of God, the vVorks of Nature, the
Philosophy of Good and Evil, the Constitution of Man,
the Divine Paternity, and the Mission of Christ, no
less than from the combined and concurrent testimony
of Apostles and Prophets, we derive the assurance,
that God " will have all men to be saved."
\Ve have,. of course, furnished but a small part of
the evidence that might be adduced in the discussion
of this interesting subject. It is impossible to exhaust
the theme, since the truth is revealed in all the works
and ways of God. It whispers in every breeze-distills
in the dews and showers-it is written in radiant lines
on the starry heavens-it gushes from every fountain
-sparkles in the rill, and shines in the sun-beam-it
speaks from every wound of a crucified Redeemer,
and hath its deep utterance in the sublime voices of
Nature, of Reason, and of Revelation.
\Ve are wedded to no system. It is no narrow and
sectarian platform on which we stand. It is not a
186 CONCLUDING
creed or confession to which we ask your assent. \Ve
leave the spirit free and the thought unfettered. \Ve
are not commissioned to make shackles for the world
to wear. Too many, already, are engaged in that
business. We only present our idea. For the sake
of humanity we hope it may be accepted. 'Ve have
no interest in building up a mere earthly power. \V"e
labor, not for the sect-but, for HUMANITY; not for the
ism, but for the IDEA. \V"e desire to adrnnce the truth
-to hallow the name of God, and to bear a message
of hope to the imprisoned spirits of men. There are
many to whom the influence of this truth is precious,
and for whom it has a great work to perform. It
comes to "seek that which was lost, and to restore that
which was driven away.'' It will strengthen the
weak and " bind up that which was broken."
The child of sorrow requires its holy ministry. The
faint and the dying must have something to support
them when heart and flesh fail. This truth will be a
healing balm to the torn and bleeding bosoms of
humanity. It will soften the grief of those who
mourn over the wreck of earth's best joys !-It will
lift up the pilgrim who bends to the grave of his
buried hopes ; and the poor exile will rejoice to know
that he has a kind Father and a " sweet home,, in
heaven.
We would enforce our peculiar idea because it
appears to be necessarily and intimately connected with
true spiritual worship. Before the heart and the
affections can be properly engaged in the service-
DISCOURSE. 187
before the worshiper will bow in the beauty of holi-
ness he must have right views of God. The Divine
nature must not only command his highest reverence,
.but it must excite his deepest and purest love. Our
idea will never make men mad ,or melancholy. It
has no power to arouse the unholy passions. They
expire beneath its gentle S\vay. It sanctions. no irre-
verence to God or cruelty to man. It is " full of
mercy and good fruits." Hitherto its power has been
but little felt; but the world must yet adopt a faith
that works by love, to purify the heart. Our idea
has been like a sun-beam struggling to scatter the
clouds. \Ve have contended against fearful odds.
Our influence has apparently been measurably lost
amid the opposing influences. It has been like a
little rill of some ethereal fluid, diluted by a thousand
polluted streams. All that we desire is an opportunity
to bring our principles to the test of a practical illus-
tration in the government of the world. \Ve request
you to consent to the experiment. Let Love, the only
reforming power in the Universe, have leave to rule
the people. GiYe it a supremacy over the baser
passions. Let it shape the thoughts, direct the \Yill,
.and gover~ the actions of men. Give it an utterance
every where, from the pulpit and the press; carry it
with you into the councils of the nation, into the
""halls of justice, and the avenues of business. Let
kindness be employed to subdue the criminal-the
fire of love to dissolve his chains and melt his stubborn
hearL Give him the pure air and the sun-beams-
188 CONCLUDING DISCOURSE.
These are the inheritance alike of all the evil and the
good. Uncharitableness, injustice and revenge, have
had their turn. Let man now be governed by Grace
and Truth and Love, a trinity of beautiful spirits,
"Each worth the mission of the Son of God."
Give th,em a thousand tongues, and bid them speak
their language in every mortal ear. It is time for
Love to rule the world. Love will secure to all their
rights. It l\rill equalize labor and the gifts of Provi-
dence. It will do something for the poor and the
oppressed, that men may be free and equal this side
the grave.
If we receive the t,ruth it remains for us to speak,
and act and live, in humble obedience to its require-
ments. We acknowledge as our master, One who
came to bear witness to the truth ; 'vho was willing
to live for it, and at last to seal it with his blood.
May we have a measure of his spirit, and may his
love be shed abroad in our hearts. It may be a scene
of conflict through which we pass ; but the faithful
and true in all ages-those whose memory is most
dear-have walked in that way. It is the path of
honor, of glory and immortality. TRUTH can never die !
--'' The sv.-eeping storm of time
May sing its death-dirge o'er the ruined fanes
And broken altars,"
but there will be a temple and a shrine, where the
pure in heart, and the free in spirit, will meet and
worship.
