{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/psypioneer.iapsop.com\/psypioneer_v2_n8_aug_2006.pdf","mytitle":"Psypioneer V2 N8 Aug 2006","mylang":"de"}
PSYPIONEER
Founded by Leslie Price Editor Paul Gaunt
Volume 2, No 8; August 2006
Available as an Electronic Newsletter
Highlights of this issue:
The seizure of Mrs. Elgie Corner. 164
Second thoughts on the first Psychic 181
Letters from Mr. J.J. Morse. IV. 184
How to obtain this Newsletter by email. 187
………………………………………………
The Seizure of Mrs. Elgie Corner
[Nee Florence (Florrie) Eliza Cook: - June 3rd 1856 – April 22nd
1904]
During a séance with Mrs. Corner on Friday, January 9th
1880, and under the
protection of Edmund Dawson Rogers, Chairman of the Séance Committee of the
British National Association of Spiritualists (B.N.A.S) London, Sir George Sitwell
seized the full-form materialization of ‘Marie’ who appeared attired in white robes.
The seized, ‘Marie’ was found to be that of the medium herself, Mrs. Elgie Corner.
The ‘seizure,’ raised the question - was Mrs. Corner actively and consciously
producing fraudulent mediumship or could she have been unconscious of the fact, and
under the influence of a controlling spirit, in a state of somnambulism?
Reprinted below is the full published account of this crisis from the B.N.A.S council
meeting on Tuesday January 13th
1880 under the presidency of Alexander Calder Esq.
The B.N.A.S reported these proceedings in Vol. 1.- No. XIX. February 1880 issue
(p.251-255) of their official monthly publication, ‘Spiritual Notes’ (1878 – 1881).
……………………………………………………
THE SEANCES WITH MRS. CORNER.
SEIZURE OF THE MEDIUM.
Mr. DAWSON ROGERS said he had now to approach a very disagreeable subject -
namely, the recent seizure of a "form" which turned out to be the "form” of the
medium, as narrated in a letter addressed to the public journals by Sir George Sitwell
and Mr. Carl von Buch, and as he had just seen those gentlemen in the adjoining room
he proposed that they be admitted to the Council Chamber. He should have to report
164
all the facts to the Council, and also to review the statements which these gentlemen
had published, and he thought that it would be very desirable that they should be
present in the room to hear all that he had to say.
Several of the members of the Council expressed a very decided opinion that to
accede to Mr. Dawson Roger’s proposal would be to set a very inconvenient
precedent, and the motion was accordingly withdrawn.
The following is the letter to which Mr. Dawson Rogers alluded:-
THE CAPTURE OF “A Spirit.”
To the Editor of the Times.
Sir,-We think the following facts will be interesting to the readers of The Times.
Some time ago, being desirous of investigating the truths of so-called Spiritualism, we
were advised by an eminent Spiritualist to attend the seances held at 38, Great
Russell-street (British National Association of Spiritualists). We were assured that the
seances conducted at that association were the most genuine in England and under
strict test conditions. On our first visit, the medium being tied by one of us with great
care, no manifestations followed.
At the second visit (January 2) one of us again tied the medium, but under the
directions of the chairman, who is officially connected with the institution. a "Spirit"
soon appeared; which we were told was "Marie," and was represented to be that of a
dead child 12 years of age. She was dressed in white, her face covered with a veil,
and her arms and feet bare. We were surprised to distinguish the appearance of a
corset under the white robes, and her voice and general appearance gave us the idea
that it was the medium herself - Mrs. Corner (nee Florrie Cook).
On the third visit, January 9, we were accompanied by a friend, Mr. John C. Fell,
engineer, and editor of a scientific journal, of 23, Rood-lane, E.C., with his wife. The
spirit "Marie" again appeared, and rendered our former suspicions almost certain by
the audible sound of undressing within the curtain and by the "unspiritual" levity of
her behaviour and conversation. One of us by a sudden rush intercepted and gently
held "the spirit," while another dashed into the curtains, and drawing them aside,
displayed the medium's empty chair with the knot slipped, her dress, stockings and
boots, and other discarded garments. There was sufficient light from a half-obscured
candle for the captured "spirit" and all the above objects to be plainly seen, which
latter were handed round for inspection and examined by those present. After a few
minute s- to cover the confusion, we presume - the candle was extinguished by the
official present, and we adjourned to the lower room. All present, except the officials,
one of whom took refuge in abuse, entirely agreed with us and thanked us for
exposing the deception.
Now, Sir, we leave general conclusions on Spiritualism to others, but what we do
claim to have proved is that in the first society of Spiritualists in England, one of its
best mediums has been detected in personating the spirit herself. Not wishing to
165
further occupy your valuable space, we shall be happy to give fuller information to
any one interested in the cause of truth.
GEORGE R. SITWELL.
CARL VON BUCH.
Witness to the signatures of Sir George R. Sitwell and Carl von Buch, F.C.S.:- John
C. Fell, M.I.M.E., Professor of Mechanics.
23, Rood-lane, E.C., Jan. 10.
Mr. DAWSON ROGERS then proceeded. This letter, he said, stated that at a
séance held at the rooms of the Association, on the evening of Friday, January 9th
-
and at which he (Mr. Dawson Rogers) was present in his capacity of Chairman of the
Séance Committee - a form appeared attired in white robes, that the form was seized
by one of the circle, and was found to be the person of the medium (Mrs. Corner), and
that the chair to which the medium had been bound was found to be vacant, while
several articles of the medium's dress were scattered about the floor behind the
curtains which were used as a cabinet. He was sorry to be obliged to admit that all this
was true. He would also take this opportunity of stating that, in the act of seizure, Sir
George Sitwell was as gentle and considerate towards the medium as the successful
accomplishment of his purpose would permit, and that he (Mr. Dawson Rogers) was
sorry that in the heat of the moment he applied to Sir George an epithet which he
freely confessed he ought not to have used. Having made a mistake he had done all he
could to remedy it, and had personally conveyed the expression of his regret to Sir
George, who had kindly accepted it.
He would now briefly state all the circumstances connected with this unfortunate
affair, prefacing what he had to say by the assurance that he had no word of censure
for Mrs. Corner, that he believed her to be totally unconscious, and therefore totally
guiltless of any deception, and that he was satisfied the Council, after hearing his
report, would arrive at the same opinion. Naturally enough, perhaps, some persons
would hastily conclude, after what had occurred, that notwithstanding all that had
been heard of Mrs. Corner, she was not a genuine medium for physical
manifestations, and that the Séance Committee ought to have taken more care before
they accepted her services in that capacity. But as a matter of fact great care had been
taken. At some of the preceding seances she had not only been well secured by tying,
but her dress had been so sewn together that it was simply impossible that it could be
removed and replaced without detection; and he himself had also, when sitting near
the curtains, put his hands behind them and felt the medium's head, shoulder, arm, and
hand at the same time that the "form " was out and visible to all the company; and he
had reported the fact to another member of the committee. He had also had recourse
to other tests which left no room for doubt as to the genuineness of Mrs. Corner's
mediumship.
Then came the question of the proposed attendance of Mr. von Buch. The rule was, as
they were aware, that friends of a member were admissible on the member's
introduction. Mr. von Buch's mother was a Spiritualist, and a highly respectable
member of the Association, and she had asked that her son and his friends should be
allowed to attend some seances, and especially that Mr. von Buch might be permitted
to bind the medium, as he had great confidence in his ability to tie securely. Mr. von
166
Buch and Sir George Sitwell attended accordingly. In their published letter they said,
in reference to their first visit, “The medium being tied by one of us with great care no
manifestations followed." This was not correct. Mr. von Buch tied Mrs. Corner with
so much care that he spent nearly a quarter of an hour in the operation, and yet some
little while after the curtains had been closed raps were heard spelling "Tying not
satisfactory, look to your knots," and on examination it was found that Mrs. Corner
was free from all her bonds, the knots and the loops which had encircled her waist and
wrists being all, as far as could be discovered, perfectly intact. Mr. von Buch himself
examined them, and did not even suggest that the knots had in any way been tampered
with. Mr. von Buch bound the medium again, but after sitting an hour without any
result the séance was closed however, without an opportunity being afforded to Mrs.
Corner to play tricks if she had chosen, for at the termination of the sitting she called
the attention of the members of the committee who were present to the fact that the
knots this time were slip knots, and that she could easily have got out of them if she
pleased.
And yet these gentlemen had in their letter suggested that at the following sitting the
medium was able to get out because she had been on that occasion tied "under the
direction of the chairman!" This statement was not a correct representation of the
case. Knowing that the second tying at the preceding séance was altogether insecure,
he (Mr. Dawson Rogers) told Mr. von Buch so, and suggested another method. This
method Mr. von Buch adopted at the second séance, but he did so freely, and could
have employed any other mode if he had thought it better.
But how about the third sitting - that at which the capture was made? Mr. von Buch
did exactly as he pleased without a single suggestion being offered by any other
person. Did he then tie the medium securely, and, if not, why not? Be this as it might,
a "form," after a little while, came out from curtains at the side, and stood with the
back to the wall. It was covered with white drapery over head, face, and shoulders,
and had a long white robe reaching to the heels, so that the naked feet could not be
seen except when they were put slightly forward from beneath the skirt. While in this
position Sir George Sitwell made a sudden rush, captured the "form," and, gently
holding her, exclaimed, "It is the medium; I knew it was."
He (Mr. Dawson Rogers) at once stepped up, and taking the "form" out of Sir
George’s hands, threw up the veil to see whether it really was Mrs. Corner or not. For
the moment he could scarcely recognise her, as the eyes had a vacant gaze as though
there was no consciousness of what had occurred. He had been told that at the same
moment Mr. von Buch rushed forward, and from the front of the curtains drew out the
empty chair and various articles of Mrs. Corner's apparel; but of this, as he was then
standing at the side curtains, he knew nothing. It should be borne in mind that when
he took Mrs. Corner in this apparently unconscious state from Sir George's hands she
was covered with white drapery as mentioned. He at once put his arms round her, and
led her behind the curtains. There, for a few seconds, she remained perfectly quiet and
silent, then trembled violently, and presently exclaimed, "Where am I? Where am I?
What is it? Tell me, what is it?" He endeavoured to soothe her, but finding that she
was getting heavy in his arms, and fearing that he should able to prevent her from
falling, he proposed to lead her out into the adjoining room. She replied, "Yes, do!"
and he was about to remove her, when she suddenly exclaimed, "Why, I am
undressed; get away, get away " He did not, however, feel that he could leave her
167
without letting her fall, and he therefore called Mrs. Maltby, who received her from
his hands behind the curtain, and removed her into another room. Mrs. Maltby would
tell them in what condition she was at the time.
Mrs: MALTBY: She had nothing on but her corset and flannel petticoat, and no
white drapery whatever.
Mr. DAWSON ROGERS: What then had become of the drapery? It was
impossible that Mrs. Corner could have removed and secreted it, for he had his arms
round her from the moment he received her from Sir George Sitwell's hands to the
moment he placed her in the hands of Mrs. Maltby behind the curtains. The published
letter already alluded to said that to cover the confusion he had put the light out. This
was altogether untrue. The light was at one end of the room, and he at the other, and
he was engaged all the time as he had said in attending to Mrs. Corner. Moreover, in
another part of the letter, the writers themselves admitted that there was sufficient
light for the discarded garments to be handed round for inspection.
Mrs. MALTBY said that when she thought the candle was no longer needed she
put it out herself.
Mr. DAWSON ROGERS had since heard, on very good authority, that later the
same evening, at a séance at Mr. Fletcher's, with the same medium, both the medium
and a second "form" were seen two or three times at the same moment. At their own
séance, however, there could be no doubt that the draped "form" was Mrs. Corner
herself. As he had already intimated he was firmly convinced that Mrs. Corner knew
nothing about the fraud, and that it was perpetrated by the controlling spirit who had
used her without her own volition. All experienced Spiritualists knew that this was a
difficulty in which they were occasionally liable to be placed at what were termed
`materialising seances." It was a perplexing position, and a very disagreeable one; but
it was one that must be faced, except they were disposed to discontinue the
investigation of this branch of physical phenomena altogether. He hoped that the
Council would freely acknowledge the perplexity, and not seek to avoid it by leaving
it to be inferred that there was any guilt on the part of the medium. Having attended
nearly all her seances in these rooms he had the most complete faith in Mrs. Corner
yet, and he hoped there would be no disposition on the part of the Council to save
themselves from a difficulty at her expense.
Mr. DESMOND FlTZ-GERALD thought that there was no fault to be found with
these young gentlemen, and that they had acted not only in a proper but even in a
gentlemanly way. No doubt we had sometimes misinterpreted the scenes which had
been brought before us at such séances, and had thought that these imitations were
less frequent than they really were. Still he was perfectly certain that Mrs. Corner was
an excellent medium, and he was also satisfied that she was altogether guiltless of
such deceptions. Their present position was one in which their behaviour would be
very carefully observed by all genuine truth seekers, but they had three things plainly
before them to do. First, they must fully exonerate these young gentlemen from
blame, and must even admit that they had taught them a lesson, though they had not
taught them anything they did not know before. Secondly, they must clearly and
distinctly express their confidence in the medium, even at the expense of throwing
well-deserved reflections on some of the "guides" on the other side. And in the third
168
place, they were bound to show a bold but honest front is the face of this difficulty,
and to exercise more caution in the class of phenomena presented to investigators in
the future.
Mr. MARCH said that if these gentlemen had brought the matter before the
Council first, perhaps they would not have thought it wise to rush into print at all: at
the same time he did not think that phenomena of this kind should be presented to
people who knew nothing whatever of the various phases of mediumship, unless we
could absolutely prove by some occult power - which of course we could not do - that
in such a case as this the medium was certainly "possessed." Moreover, the Council
ought to have a written report from the Séance Committee, and not merely the speech
of an advocate entirely in favour of the medium.
Mr. DAWSON ROGERS said it was manifestly impossible; in the short time that
had elapsed, for the committee to have met and agreed to a written report. A report
would be entered on the minutes of the committee as soon as possible, but in the
meantime it had been necessary to explain all the circumstances to the Council at their
first meeting after the occurrence.
The Rev. STAINTON-MOSES remarked, in reference to the method these
gentlemen had adopted in order to arrive at the result which they had accomplished
that it could not be denied that such methods of enquiry would often land a man in a
fallacy, and that there were powers and phenomena which were not amenable to such
rude and ready methods of investigation. Unfortunately, however, they answered Sir
George Sitwell's purpose, and it would be impossible to convince the world that he
was wrong. It was to the last degree deplorable that anything of the kind should have
taken place, and an answer must be made to the damaging statements which these
gentlemen had published.
Mr. DESMOND FITZ-GERALD said he would move that Sir George Sitwell and
Mr. von Buch be invited into the room, that they might make any statement they
desired, and hear a brief explanation of the theory which was compatible both with
the facts alleged and with the complete innocence of the medium.
The Rev. W. MIALL seconded the motion.
Mr. COFFIN said he understood that the gentlemen were in attendance for the
purpose of giving some information or suggestion as to the disappearance of the
drapery, and he would move as an amendment that they be admitted simply for that
purpose.
This amendment having been adopted, Sir George Sitwell and Mr. von Buch were
invited into the Council Room, and took their seats by the side of the President.
Mr. VON BUCH said he desired to thank the Council for allowing him to say a
few words in reference to the unfortunate occurrence which had taken place. It was
due to the Council, as well as to himself and Sir George Sitwell, that he should say
that in the letter which they had addressed to the papers they had endeavoured to write
fairly and impartially. They had come to the séance, not as believers it was true, but
also certainly not as sceptics, for they had been ready to accept any evidence which
169
could be offered of the truth of Spiritualism, and nothing would have given them
greater pleasure than to find that they had been wrong in their suspicions of the
medium. He had been asked, what became of the spirit's drapery? and in reply to this
he would read an extract from Mr. Home's book, "Lights and Shadows in Modern
Spiritualism," which might throw some light on the subject. [The extract was to the
effect that lady mediums secreted the drapery, which was light and could easily be
packed into a small compass, inside their drawers, which, even when mediums were
searched, were most likely to escape scrutiny]
Mr. DAWSON ROGERS said that in this case, under the circumstances which he
had already explained to the Council, such an hypothesis was quite untenable.
Mr. VON BUCH proceeded to state the occurrences which, in his mind and that of
his friend, had excited suspicion. The movements and slight noises behind the curtains
after they were closed resembled, he thought, the act of undressing, while the time
which elapsed, after the form was last seen, till permission was obtained to examine
the medium, sufficed to enable her to dress and tie herself again. It had been
suggested that, in doing what they had done, they had broken the conditions on which
they gained admission, and thus acted dishonorably. He did not think so; but at the
same time he was not quite sure that, in such a case, even if they had used some little
artifice, they would not have been fully justified. It was admitted that the form seized
was Mrs. Corner, but she had been excused on the ground that she was in a state of
trance; but he knew something of cases of somnambulism and catalepsy, and did not
think that this was one of them.
Mr. DAWSON ROGERS: Do you know that there is such a thing as lucid
somnambulism?
Mr. VON BUCH said he did.
Mr. DAWSON ROGERS: I have had considerable experience of such cases,
extending over many years, and I have no doubt whatever that this was such a case.
Mr. VON BUCH added that he had heard that Mrs. Corner had had a successful
séance afterwards, the same night, but he had been told by a Spiritualist of experience
that no medium could obtain manifestations twice the same evening. Anyhow it was
curious that the medium should be dragged off to give another sitting after what had
occurred. From what he and his friend had done genuine Spiritualism, if there was
such a thing, would never suffer. Mixed up with fraud it could never be placed on a
strong basis; but if it were true, and the experiments honestly conducted, it would
sooner or later come to the front in spite of all opposition.
Mr. COFFIN asked Mr. von Buch whether on the last occasion he took care to tie
the medium as securely as he could.
Mr. VON BUCH said he left the knots loose enough to be slipped.
Mr. COFFIN: Did you do that purposely, in order that the medium might the more
easily get out?
170
Mr. VON BUCH: Not exactly that. I thought that if it were a case of genuine
Spiritualism the tying would make no difference, and if it were not the sooner we had
the manifestations the better.
Mr. DAWSON ROGERS: How is it you stated that I put out the light?
Mr. VON BUCH: I was told so by one of the persons present.
Mrs. MALTBY: It was put out by me as the people were leaving.
Mr. VON BUCH said he was sorry that he made the mistake.
Sir GEORGE SITWELL said that when he seized Mrs. Corner he did so as gently
as possible, and when she was taken out of his hands the drapery remained upon her.
He believed the medium was on the floor afterwards, and had thus an opportunity of
secreting it.
Mr. DAWSON ROGERS replied that the medium was not on the floor at all. He
held her till Mrs. Maltby took her away at his request, and then the drapery had
disappeared.
Mr. FLETCHER, in allusion to a remark which had been made by Mr. Von Buch,
said that Mrs. Corner had not been "dragged off" to his house to give another sitting,
but having an engagement for a séance there had come to excuse herself, but had been
prevailed upon to try. The result was a very successful sitting, at which both the
medium and the spirit were seen at the same time.
Mr. VON BUCH said they should be willing to have another test séance with Mrs.
Corner, and to publish the results if satisfactory.
Mr. von Buch and Sir George Sitwell then left the room.
Mr. DAWSON ROGERS remarked that after the statement he had already made to
the Council he did not think it necessary to offer any further explanation.
Mr. STAINTON-MOSES then moved, and Mr. DAWSON ROGERS seconded,
the adoption of a letter to be addressed to the Times and other daily papers, and which,
after some emendations, was passed unanimously in the following form :-
THE CAPTURE OF "A SPIRIT."
To the Editor.
SIR,-I am directed by the Council of the British National Association of
Spiritualists to address you in reference to a letter which has appeared in the public
journals from Sir George Sitwell and Mr. von Buch respecting a seance held on the
9th inst. at the rooms of the Association.
171
The letter of these gentlemen presents a substantial accurate account of what took
place, except in the passages which attribute to members of the Council of the
Association officially present a desire to cloak the truth and to afford facilities for
deception.
The Association, in seeking to fulfill the objects for which it was established, viz.,
to assist inquirers is the truths of Spiritualism, had thought that they would be
rendering a public service by affording to members and their friends, unable or
unwilling to devote the time needful for individual experiment, an opportunity of
witnessing under favourable circumstances some of these phenomena; and they hoped
that they had secured the best and most trustworthy means of so doing in engaging
the services of Mrs. Corner, who, as Miss Florence Cook, was so completely and
exhaustively tested by Mr. Crookes, F.R.S., and by many other competent
investigators, including committees of this Association in recent experiments
Mr. Crookes's experiments extended over a series of years, and were conducted in
his own house in the presence of his own family, under conditions that seemed to
preclude deception. His precautions against error were, indeed, most elaborate, and
his testimony as to what he proved is public property.
The Association was not unaware of the fact that most intricate bonds do not
prevent the liberation, by some means, of the medium. They knew, moreover - strange
as the fact may appear to many of your readers - that perfectly unconscious persons
can be, and frequently are, made to personate and act a part wholly irrespective of
their own volition, just as the mesmeric sensitive obeys the suggestions of the
mesmeriser. And they did not under-estimate the extreme difficulty of presenting to
uninstructed persons satisfactory results. They, however, deemed it their duty to make
the attempt.
They can but regret that their well-intentioned efforts to this end should, in this
case, have had results so unsatisfactory as those disclosed by the letter of Sir George
Sitwell and Mr. von Buch. I am directed to add the expression of extreme concern on
the part of the Council of the Association if, in the heat of the moment, any expression
should have been used of which those gentlemen consider that they have a right to
complain.
- I am, yours respectfully,
C. A. BURKE, Secretary.
38, Great Russell-street, Jan. 13.
Mr. E. T. BENNETT said there was one proposition he should like to make, as to
which he felt very strongly that it would assist in placing the Council in a proper and
good position before both Spiritualists and the public. He hoped the motion would be
adopted by the Council quite independent of the question as to whether it could be
carried out, or whether any results were likely to be obtained. He moved that, if Mrs.
Corner's consent can be obtained, the Séance Committee be requested to accede to the
wish of Sir George Sitwell and Mr. von Buch, and to arrange for a séance with Mrs.
Corner on these premises; Sir George Sitwell and Mr. von Buch to be at full liberty to
172
make such arrangements as may be satisfactory to themselves, to test the nature of
any manifestations or phenomena which may appear.
Mr. D. G. FITZ-GERALD seconded the motion. Mr. STAINTON-MOSES and
Mr. DAWSON ROGERS strongly objected to the proposal as likely to lead to
difficulties and to be productive of no good.
On being put to the Council the motion was lost by a large majority.
This brought the proceedings to a close.
(End of BNAS Council proceedings.)
…………………………………………………………
There has always been some dispute as to whether Florence Cook indeed was so
completely and exhaustive tested by Mr. Crookes, F.R.S., as the draft second letter to
“The Times” claimed.
One respected researcher of the day was Serjeant-at-Law, Edward William Cox
(1809-1879). He was sceptical of Florence Cook at the time of the Crookes
investigations into her materializations in 1873-4. Cox had worked with Crookes in
his early investigations of May 1871 with Daniel Dunglas Home (1833-1886). Cox
incidentally was convinced of the genuineness of Home, although he did not accept
the spirit hypothesis. He had first used the term ‘Psychic Force’, publishing a booklet
to this effect in 1872 ‘Spiritualism Scientifically Examined with Proofs of the
Existence of a Psychic Force’.
Cox had been one of the investigating committee members of the London Dialectical
Society which published its report on Spiritualism in 1871. As a point of interest, on
this same committee was William Volckman who, just prior to Crookes’
investigations in December 1873 seized Florence Cook or ‘Katie King’ on December
3rd
.
Edward William Cox is the researcher to whom Mr. Von Buch in his opening
statement of the British National Association of Spiritualists council room referred:
He had been asked, what became of the spirit's drapery? and in reply to this he would
read an extract from Mr. Home's book, “Lights and Shadows in Modern
Spiritualism,"
Cox’s letter to Home is reprinted in full from the book below, [published by Virtue &
Co., London, in 1877, pages 326 – 329.] Home wrote:
The form of fraud at present most in vogue is the simulation of a spirit form or forms.
To be successful such simulation usually requires the aid of a room so ill-lighted as
practically not to be lighted at all, a "cabinet" into which the medium withdraws from
the view of the sitters, and various other "conditions" of the sort. When the rules of
such seances are broken, awkward discoveries occur. Sometimes the light is turned up
suddenly, and the medium revealed in his or her "spirit-dress." Sometimes the “spirit-
form" is grasped, and found to be none other than the medium. But should all go well,
the credulous are often highly gratified. Figures appear, clad in flowing and parti-
coloured robes. The display of drapery seems most extensive. Yet when the medium is
173
searched at the conclusion of the séance no trace of this drapery can be found.
Whence has it vanished? The believers present reply that "the spirits have de-
materialized it." The sceptics probably examine the cabinet, and are astonished that
they find nothing. Perhaps the evidence I have to offer may throw a little light on the
concealments sometimes practised. Let me commence with the narrative of an
unimpeachable witness, my friend Serjeant Cox:-
"DEAR HOME,
"I am satisfied that a large amount of fraud has been and still is practised.
Some of it is, doubtless, deliberately planned and executed. But some is, I think, done
while the medium is in a state of somnambulism, and therefore unconscious. As all
familiar with the phenomena of somnambulism are aware, the patient acts to
perfection any part suggested to his mind, but wholly without self-perception at the
time, or memory afterwards. But such an explanation serves only to acquit the
medium of deliberate imposture; it does not affect the fact that the apparent
manifestation is not genuine.
"The great field for fraud has been offered by the production and presentation of
alleged spirit-forms. All the conditions imposed are as if carefully designed to favour
fraud if contemplated, and even to tempt to imposture. The curtain is guarded at
either end by some friend. The light is so dim that the features cannot be distinctly
seen. A white veil thrown over the body from head to foot is put on and off in a
moment, and gives the necessary aspect of spirituality. A white band round head and
chin at once conceals the hair, and disguises the face. A considerable interval
precedes the appearance-just such as would be necessary for the preparations. A like
interval succeeds the retirement of the form before the cabinet is permitted to be
opened for inspection. This just enables the ordinary dress to be restored. While the
preparation is going on behind the curtain the company are always vehemently
exhorted to sing. This would conveniently conceal any sounds of motion in the act of
preparation. The spectators are made to promise not to peep behind the curtain, and
not to grasp the form. They are solemnly told that if they were to seize the spirit they
would kill the medium. This is an obvious contrivance to deter the onlookers from
doing anything that might cause detection. It is not true. Several spirits have been
grasped, and no medium has died of it; although in each case the supposed spirit was
found to be the medium. That the detected medium was somewhat disturbed in health
after such a public detection and exposure is not at all surprising. Every one of the
five* mediums who have been actually seized in the act of personating a spirit is now
alive and well. There need be no fear for the consequences in putting them to the
proof.
"But I have learned how the trick is done. I have seen the description of it given by
a medium to another medium who desired instruction. The letter was in her own
handwriting, and the whole style of it showed it to be genuine.
"She informs her friend that she comes to the séance prepared with a dress that is
easily taken off with a little practice. She says it may be done in two or three minutes.
She wears two shifts (probably for warmth). She brings a muslin veil of thin material
(she gives its name, which I forget). It is carried in her drawers! It can be compressed
into a small space, although when spread it covers the whole person. A pocket-
174
handkerchief pinned round the head keeps back the hair. She states that she takes off
all her clothes except the two shifts, and is covered by the veil. The gown is spread
carefully upon the sofa over the pillows. In this array she comes out. She makes very
merry with the spiritualists whom she thus gulls, and her language about them is
anything but complimentary.
"This explains the whole business. The question so often asked before was - where
the robe could be carried? It could not be contained in the bosom or in a sleeve.
Nobody seems to have thought of the drawers.
"But it will be asked how we can explain the fact that some persons have been
permitted to go behind the curtain when the form was before it, and have asserted that
they saw or felt the medium. I am sorry to say the confession to which I have referred
states without reserve that these persons knew that it was a trick, and lent themselves
to it. I am, of course, reluctant to adopt such a formidable conclusion, although the
so-called 'confession' was it confidential communication from one medium to another
medium who had asked to be instructed how the trick was done. I prefer to adopt the
more charitable conclusion that they were imposed upon, and it is easy to find how
this was likely to be. The same suspicious precautions against detection were always
adopted. The favoured visitor was an assured friend; one who, if detecting trickery,
would shrink from proclaiming the cheat. But one was permitted to enter. A light was
not allowed. There was nothing but the 'darkness visible' of the lowered gas rays
struggling through the curtain. I have noted that no one of them ever was permitted to
see the face of the medium. It was always 'wrapped in a shawl.' The hands felt a dress,
and imagination did the rest. The revealer of the secret above referred to says that,
when she took off her gown to put on the white veil, she spread it upon the sofa or
chair with pillows or something under it, and this is what they felt and took for her
body!
"The lesson to be learned from all this is, that no phenomena should be accepted
as genuine that are not produced under strict test conditions. Investigators should be
satisfied with no evidence short of the very best that the circumstances will permit.
Why accept the doubtful testimony of one person groping in the dark when the
question can be decided beyond dispute once and for ever by the simple process of
drawing back the curtain while the alleged spirit is outside, and showing the medium
inside to the eyes of all present? Where absolute tests are refused upon any pretence
whatever, and where the conditions imposed are just such as are calculated to prevent
detection if trickery is designed, we are bound to look with the utmost suspicion upon
all that is done, and, indeed, we should refuse to take part in any such unsatisfactory
experiment.
"In the investigations in which you so kindly assisted me there was nothing of this
precaution and mystery. You sat with me anywhere, at any time; in my garden, and in
my house; by day and by night; but always, with one memorable exception, in full
light. You objected to no tests; on the contrary you invited them I was permitted the
full use of all my senses. The experiments were made in every form ingenuity could
devise, and you were as desirous to learn the truth and the meaning of it as I was. You
sat alone with me, and things were done which, if four confederates had been present,
their united efforts could not have accomplished. Sometimes there were phenomena,
some times there were none. When they occurred they were often such as no human
175
hand could have produced without the machinery of the Egyptian Hall. But these were
in my own drawing-room, and library, and garden, where no mechanism was
possible. In this manner it was that I arrived at the conviction-opposed to all my
prejudices and preconceptions-that there are forces about us of some kind, having
both power and intelligence, but imperceptible to our senses, except under some
imperfectly-known conditions. I did not, and with subsequent extended inquiry I
cannot now arrive at the conclusion you have come to, that these invisible agents are
spirits of the dead. On the contrary, the more I see of their operations the more I am
satisfied that they are not such. The solution that most presses upon my mind is that
this earth is inhabited by another race of beings, imperceptible to us in normal
conditions, probably our inferiors in intelligence, by whom what we witness is done.
If it be not this the agent is the spirit of the medium more or less separated from the
body. But whosoever that agent may be, the medium through which it is enabled to
manifest its presence, and to operate upon molecular matter is the Psychic (that is to
say, the soul) force of the assembled sitters. But now that the phenomena themselves,
or some of them, have received general acceptation as facts in nature, it may be
hoped that many observant minds will investigate them with a view to learn their
precise nature and extent, as produced under absolute tests. Then we shall be in a
position to inquire what they are, whence they come, and to what they point.
"It is a great misfortune to the cause of truth that your state of health prevents you
from contributing to this great work. But I hope still that your recovery may enable
you to do something more to promote honest investigation into the greatest and the
grandest mystery that could engage the human mind.
"Yours most truly,
"EDWARD W.m. COX.
“March 8th, 1876."
The narrative above given bears a peculiar value from the circumstances attending
the confession of imposture to which it refers. The exposure meets even the conditions
demanded by those enthusiasts who would rather libel a hundred spirits than believe
one medium guilty of trickery. " ' The only conclusive proof that a medium has
perpetrated fraud," a philosopher of this class writes, "is proof that the physical
organs of the medium acted in obedience to his or her own will and purposes at the
time when the seemingly fraudulent acts were performed." This proof the "medium" in
question herself affords.
*Since this was written by Serjeant Cox the numbers have greatly increased. I doubt if
there remain now five “materializing mediums” who have not been seized in the act
of personating a spirit-form.
……………………………………………………
A new cycle of research into Crookes’ investigations into the physical mediumship of
Florence Cook/Corner began with Trevor H. Hall’s, ‘The Spiritualists the Story of
Florence Cook and William Crookes’. (1962). Hall gives a biased account with much
176
speculation often using parts of quotes to discredit Crookes and Cook, which is
unfortunate as his books offer good background knowledge
A valuable source of information on Crookes’ investigations into Florence Cook can
be found in the ‘Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research’ Volume 54, Part
195 March 1964. ‘William Crookes and the Physical Phenomena of Mediumship’ by
R.G. Medhurst and K.M. Goldney, Members of the S.P.R., can access this on line at:
http://www.spr.ac.uk
This is a well balanced report, often referring to Trevor Hall’s book and clearing up
much of Hall’s speculation.
Consider the “medium to medium” instruction letter mentioned by Cox. Hall
speculates that this was written by Florence Cook/Corner to Mary Showers and
claims. ‘This letter is one of the most significant documents in the history of the
materializing mediums of the 1870s.’ However, without notation, Hall prints only an
edited version, omitting the first, penultimate and last paragraphs; those paragraphs
which contain important information as to Edward Cox’s deliberations on physical
mediumship and fraudulent practices.
R.G. Medhurst and K.M. Goldney suggest that the medium, Miss. Showers (who had
produced a written confession of her own fraudulent mediumship as given to the
medium Mrs. Anna Eva Fay (1851-1927) of which William Crookes was made fully
aware) was the likeliest candidate as the authoress of the letter. (Numerous Journals
and reference books refer simply to Miss. Showers, some to Mary Showers as did
Trevor Hall. Thomas Blyton used the name Rosina. Eric J. Dingwall, Mary Rosina
Showers, and Stainton Moses referred to her in his first sitting as Rosey.).
…………………………………………..
In the February issue of Spiritual Notes 1880, on pages 246-7 Vol. 1-No.XX. The
British National Association of Spiritualists gives a statement completely exonerating
Mrs. Corner of any conscious deception.
The full statement is as follows:
THE SEIZURE OF A MEDIUM.
IN our report of the proceedings of the Council of the B.N.A.S., our readers will find
a full and particular account of the recent capture of a medium by Sir George Sitwell.
The circumstance has of course been greedily seized by the public press as an
opportunity for a vast amount of ridicule and abuse. Men who know nothing of
Spiritualism, and have probably never witnessed a single séance in their lives, have
daringly written as though they had the whole subject at their fingers' ends.
They disbelieve and scoff because they do not know, and have never sought to
learn; and they stigmatise as fools those who do believe because conviction has come
to them as the result of years of intelligent and careful research. But we can afford to
bear the reproaches of the ignorant, for the time has happily gone by when any man
need hesitate boldly to avow his faith in phenomena the existence of which is
177
admitted by all who have entered upon the investigation without prejudice and
pursued it without impatience. When the sceptics desire the truth they will be able to
find it, and their conversion is but a work of time.
With our long and ample experience we have no difficulty in arriving at the
conclusion that on the occasion of the recent seizure Mrs. Corner was completely
guiltless of deception. To the uninitiated, appearances were admittedly unfavourable
to this construction. But that we cannot help, and we are by no means disposed to cry
over the fact, however disagreeable it may be for the moment. Unfortunately we know
but too well that mediums in the hands of a spirit, like a sensitive in the hands of a
mesmerist, are sometimes made to act a part of which they themselves are totally
unconscious. Of course there are men who would much rather believe that a lady,
whose conduct had been regarded as irreproachable, had in truth lent herself to the
basest artifices, than admit the possibility of her being controlled by an occult or
abnormal power. But Spiritualists have long since recognised that such a power is
sometimes exercised. It is a fact the presence of which has been openly
acknowledged and anxiously discussed in Spiritualistic circles and in Spiritualistic
journals.
The recent episode, therefore, has brought to us no new discovery, and no
experienced Spiritualist will find in it the slightest occasion for disheartenment, sure
as he is that his faith is based on the solid ground of well ascertained facts. But it must
be freely admitted, nevertheless, that the event has once more reopened the whole
question of the value of what are known as "materialisation" seances, or, if they have
any value, of the prudence of presenting the phenomena to the uninitiated. The
question undoubtedly is one of supreme importance; and deserves the renewed and
earnest consideration, not only of the B.N.A.S., but of all Spiritualists everywhere.
None can more completely realise than we do the vastly superior value of the higher
manifestations; but these are not always to be had, and there are, confessedly, some
minds to which, on their first introduction to Spiritualism, they are not adapted. There
are men so absorbed in materialism that they can believe in nothing which they cannot
see and handle; so that we must be cautious lest, in our laudable desire to present to
inquirers none but the best pleases of our faith, we sweep away the only evidence
which such men require. If the "materialisation" of spirits be a fact, as Spiritualists
generally acknowledge, the fact must have its value, and that value cannot be
disregarded.
Whether "materialisation" seances can be surrounded by improved conditions, and
conducted under better guarantees for genuineness, is another question. One thing at
least is certain, that we must discountenance deceiving spirits as firmly and as
fearlessly as we would discountenance deceiving mediums. Spirits must be told that,
if they cannot manifest themselves, they must be content with failure, and that they
must not attempt to delude the sitters by compelling the mediums to act the part of
personation. The mediums, too, must be secured in such a way that they cannot be
removed from the screen or cabinet without instant detection; and even screens and
cabinets must be abolished as soon as we have a single medium through whom
materialisations can be produced without their use. But till then we must be content
with the best safeguards which experience and ingenuity can devise.
………………………………………………………
178
As a result of what took place at the B.N.A.S. with Mrs. Corner, and under the
guidance of the séance committee, more action was needed. At a further Council
meeting at the B.N.A.S., on February 10th,
Stainton Moses suggested regulation of
Séances. (This is printed in full below and is taken from the B.N.A.S., Proceedings in
March 1880 pages 263 – 265. Vol. 1.-No. XX. ‘Spiritual Notes’)
British National Association. - Meeting of Council.
Mr. E. DAWSON ROGERS, on the part of the Séance Committee, reported the
arrangements for a series of seances with Mrs. Fletcher. He also stated that the
Committee, subject to the confirmation of the Council, had acceded to a request of
Mr. E. T. Bennett for leave to hold a series of seances with Mrs. Corner, on the
premises of the Association, open to members only, with the condition that two
members of the Séance Committee should be present at each séance. In a communi-
cation to Mr. Bennett Mrs. Corner had not only consented to attend these seances,
but had voluntarily expressed her readiness to submit to any tests that the circle could
devise. The Committee had also had under consideration the motions of which Mr.
Stainton-Moses had given notice for the regulation of seances, and had agreed that
they would offer no opposition to motions I. and III. The motions were as under:-
1. That under no circumstances shall a cabinet or other contrivance for secluding
the medium from view be used at any séance held in the rooms of the B.N.A.S.
to which inquirers or strangers are admitted.
2. That light reasonably sufficient for exact observation, in the judgment of the
member of Committee in charge of the séance, shall in all cases be maintained.
3. That these Resolutions shall be conspicuously posted in the Séance Room, and
shall be brought to the notice of all who are admitted to the seances.
The report of the Séance Committee having been accepted,
Mr. STAINTON-MOSES said it had been suggested to him that in proposing such
sweeping changes as these resolutions covered he was indirectly reflecting upon the
past management of the seances of this Association. In reply to such suggestions be
should like at once to say with the utmost possible distinctness that it was not his
habit to make indirect reflections upon anybody, but that whatever he had to say he
always said so directly that none but the most perverse minds could misunderstand
his meaning. What he had said already, and what he now said, contained no
reflection, either expressed or implied, upon the management of the seances, or upon
any committee of this Council. He considered the question to be one of such absolute
importance as to touch the well-being of the Association, and of the movement at
large. We were the most representative body of cultured Spiritualists in England, and
upon the action which we took very much depended the action of other people, not
only in this country but in other countries as well. He had found the late event acting
and re-acting in a way which could not be exaggerated, and he had therefore felt it
impossible to allow a single meeting of this Council to pass without taking its sense
upon what he considered to be a question of such vital importance. He might say,
indeed, that he could not have satisfied his conscience to remain in overt connection
with Spiritualism in England without attempting to induce the Association to purge
179
itself of all complicity with what he regarded as a fatal system of investigation. He
was glad to find that there was a general consensus of opinion that what he had put
upon paper was both wise and good; but he admitted that there was some difference
of opinion as to whether it was practicable.
Taking the thing, however, to be right and true in its essence, the question whether
it was practicable or not at the present moment should not, he thought, enter into our
consideration. He felt strongly that the holding of cabinet seances, giving as they did
facilities for fraud, whether by the mediums or the spirits, had been productive of
nearly everything which had brought discredit on the movement, and that fact alone
should, he thought, induce us to pause before we gave encouragement to the
continuance of such methods of investigation. Some people said, "But without cabinet
seances there are phenomena which we cannot get;" and to these people he would
reply, "Then let us do without the phenomena." He begged the Council, however, to
understand that he was dealing with those seances only to which inquirers were ad-
mitted. He had nothing to say against cabinet seances conducted privately, except that
they were oftentimes very fruitful sources of bewilderment; but he objected to them as
a means of showing phenomena to people who knew nothing whatever of Spiritualism,
and who simply came to such seances to see what they could see. He regarded it
therefore as most essential that the Council should say definitely that no cabinet
seances should be held upon these premises, to which inquirers should be admitted.
His second resolution, to exclude darkness, he did not desire to press, as he readily
admitted that there were some very desirable phenomena which could not be obtained
without it, and dark seances might be made perfectly satisfactory to any reasonable
investigators. As to the first and third resolutions he was glad to hear that the Séance
Committee did not object to them, and he would therefore now move their adoption.
He disclaimed any attempt to bind the committee by hard and fast rules, and the com-
mittee might still, by the leave of the Council, have the liberty, in an exceptional case,
to use the methods of investigation which had hitherto prevailed. But what he desired
was the affirmation of a principle, and the ability hereafter to point to the fact that
immediately after the recent event the Council resolved that cabinet seances should be
abolished. He moved the adoption of resolutions I. and III.
Mrs. FITZ-GERALD seconded the motion.
Mr. THEOBALD said that since this unfortunate occurrence he had been in
communication with Mr. A. R. Wallace, who attributed all the blame to the
Association for having permitted promiscuous circles. There were mediums in this
country who could obtain the same manifestations without cabinets, and this was
notably the case with Dr. Monck. He was glad to say that the testimonial which he
was promoting for Dr. Monck now amounted to nearly £200, and that his "spiritual
inventions," so far from being mere chimeras, promised to be very valuable indeed.
When the doctor's health was restored he would again exercise his mediumship
without charge, and the first offer of his services would be to the Council of this
Association.
Mr. DAWSON ROGERS suggested an alteration in the first resolution. By
withdrawing the second resolution it was intended that the use of dark seances for
inquirers should still be permitted, but the words in the first resolution, " cabinet or
other contrivance for secluding the medium from view" would have the same effect as
180
the passing of the second resolution would have had, for darkness was certainly a
"contrivance for secluding the medium from view." If Mr. Stainton-Moses would
substitute the words "or other contrivance for separating the medium from the circle,"
he should be happy to support his motion, which it was desirable should be carried
unanimously.
Mr. Stainton-Moses assented, and the first resolution having been altered
accordingly, his motion was unanimously adopted.
Mr. C. REIMERS said that if we accommodated ourselves completely to mishaps
the effect which this would have on the public mind would, he thought be injurious,
and he suggested therefore that we should try again to have seances with Mrs.
Corner.
Mr. Dawson Rogers said that arrangements with this in view were already under
consideration.
(End of B.N.A.S Council proceedings.)
Although Mrs Corner did give séances in other places in later life, she did not return
to the B.N.A.S or to its successor organisations.
PJG
………………………………………………
SECOND THOUGHTS ON THE FIRST PSYCHIC
Most readers will know of the medium D.D. Home (1833 - 1886). Endorsed by
scientist William Crookes, friend of Emperors, levitator, never detected in fraud, he
features in the standard histories of Spiritualism and psychical research, and is the
subject of more biographies than any other medium. But do we really take seriously
his significance? It is timely to ask some serious questions, as the paperback edition
appears in the UK on 3 August 2006 of “The First Psychic” (Abacus) by Dr Peter
Lamont, a research fellow at the Koestler Parapsychology Unit, University of
Edinburgh. (hardback, Little, Brown, August.2005)
Most books by or about Home are hard to come by, and Dr Lamont’s book is a
convenient and lively starting point for students, deserving a place in every psychic
library, large or small. The title derives from the discovery in his tests of Home by
William Crookes in 1871 of what he called a psychic force, an expression previously
coined by his fellow investigator Edward Cox. Home was the first psychic because,
suggests Lamont, he was the first person in whom the force was experimentally
verified, though whether it really existed would of course be disputed.
Few mediums did as much for Spiritualism as Home, and all the while threatened
with death from consumption, diagnosed as early as 1854 when he was about 21.
181
But consider the following:
1) Home was not a Real Spiritualist. These are people who accept the philosophy
and religion of Spiritualism neat, and reject trappings. Trappings are found in
orthodox religions. When his rappings began, Home had contact with Baptists,
Congregationalists and Wesleyans before finding a degree of understanding
with Spiritualists. In 1856 he became a Roman Catholic and was granted an
audience with the Pope. Because both his wives were Russian Orthodox (his
first wife tragically died from consumption) he also had some participation in
the rites of that church. If Home were alive today, he would not be allowed to
join the SNU.
2) Who were the spirits who assisted Home in his extraordinary phenomena?
Spiritualists would generally assume they were the dead. But consider the
words of Cox mentioned above in a letter to Home published in Home’s book
“Lights and Shadows of Spiritualism” ( 1877)
I did not, and with subsequent extended inquiry I cannot now arrive at the conclusion
you have come to, that these invisible agents are spirits of the dead. On the contrary,
the more I see of their operations the more I am satisfied that they are not such. The
solution that most presses upon my mind is that this earth is inhabited by another race
of beings, imperceptible to us in normal conditions, probably our inferiors in
intelligence, by whom what we witness is done. If it be not this the agent is the spirit
of the medium more or less separated from the body. But whosoever that agent may
be, the medium through which it is enabled to manifest its presence, and to operate
upon molecular matter is the Psychic (that is to say, the soul) force of the assembled
sitters. But now that the phenomena themselves, or some of them, have received
general acceptation as facts in nature, it may be hoped that many observant minds
will investigate them with a view to learn their precise nature and extent, as produced
under absolute tests. Then we shall be in a position to inquire what they are, whence
they come, and to what they point. (The full Cox letter appears in this issue of
Psypioneer.)
Another race of beings! But were these angels, demons, fairies, ufonauts?
Here is an extract by a witness of one of his séances from Home’s book “Lights and
Shadows of Spiritualism” p.392:
In the course of the evening an accordion lying upon the floor began discoursing
beautiful music: in the midst of which a railroad train rushed screaming by, winding
up its salute with three piercing shrieks. The music ceased abruptly, the accordion
took up the long demoniac cry of the engine, with its three wild notes of warning, in
such a manner that one would have declared it an actual echo; then the quiet,
soothing melody was resumed….
Worrying word, demoniac! This capacity for imitation was noted by Thurston, who
had also found it in poltergeist cases. His argument with the Spiritualists was – if
these entities can imitate sounds so well, perhaps they can and do imitate the human
voice?
182
And then there is Crookes- surely Crookes was convinced that these were the spirits
of the dead? In fact, he was not. Spiritualists in general do not realise this. They think
that Crookes affirmed that the entity Katie King for example, was who she said she
was. Crookes’ view was well expressed in an 1874 letter which first appeared in
LIGHT on May 12 1900.
I have had almost unlimited opportunities of investigation, more so than perhaps any
other man in Europe. Mr Home has scarcely given a seance in England during his
recent visits without my presence at it, and most of his seances have been at my house
or at my brother's. For six months Kate Fox was giving seances at my house once or
twice a week, and since Christmas last Miss Cook has been almost like one of our
family, being here more than at her parents' house, and giving tests and seances
several times a week. In addition to these highly-gifted mediums I have had frequent
seances with all the other good mediums whose names are familiar to Spiritualists.
During this whole time I have most earnestly desired to get the one proof you seek —
the proof that the dead can return and communicate. I have never once had
satisfactory proof that this is the case. I have had hundreds of communications
professing to come from deceased friends, but whenever I try to get proof that they
are really the individuals they profess to be, they break down. Not one has been able
to answer the necessary questions to prove identity; and the great problem of the
future is to me as impenetrable a mystery as ever it was.
3) Then there is the matter of Home’s attitude to mediumship as practised by
others. He called the Davenport brothers “colossal humbugs” even though
many Spiritualists regarded them as mediums. He published in “Lights and
Shadows of Spiritualism” breathtaking details of fraudulent professional
mediumship methods involving apports, spirit photography and
materialisation. He was against dark séances, although the light was not
always so good at his own. Stainton Moses also protested against dark
séances. Despite the eminence of these workers, no attention has been paid to
their protests over the decades.
D.D. Home believed he had a mission to spread Spiritualism, entrusted to him by his
late mother (also gifted with second sight) who was first to communicate with him.
“Daniel, fear not my child, God is with you, and who shall be against you. Seek to do
good. Be truthful and truth-loving and you will prosper my child. Yours is a glorious
mission- you will convince the infidel, cure the sick and console the weeping. “
Sceptics may doubt this report, but his remembrance of this charge may be the clue to
the mystery of D.D. Home. L.P.
……………………………………………………………..
183
[We continue with the letters of J. J. Morse’s Australia / New Zealand trip between
the periods of September 1902 to June 1903. This 4th letter is sent from Melbourne
as published in ‘Light’ February 21st
1903]
LETTERS FROM MR. J. J. MORSE.
IV.
December 24th, 1902.
According to the calendar this day is Christmas Eve, otherwise it would require
some effort of the imagination to realise the imminence of the historic ‘festive’
season.As I pen these lines the sky is filled with leaden clouds, a stiff north-west wind
is blowing, and a ‘dust’ storm is in full progress! Occasional splutters of rain drops
are falling, and trees, shrubs, and vines are frantically waving in the rushing blast.
Yet, bleak and wintry as the weather looks from my windows, the thermometer is
calmly registering 76deg. In the shade! Curious to say, nevertheless, the proverbial
‘oldest’ resident assures me that this weather is quite exceptional for Christmastide;
that it is usually fine, bright and cloudless, and the glass at about a 160deg. In the sun!
He considerately added, ‘Wait until to-morrow, and then you may have a scorcher
from the north!’
In other respects the season appeals to the spirit of the times, for tradesmen do
their best to simulate the usual state of affairs at home. Windows are specially
dressed, evergreens are used for decorations, and even holly is to be seen. Toys and
fancy goods abound, the customary greeting cards are in the stationers' windows, and
trade seems fairly brisk, considering the prevailing hard times. Family gatherings take
place, but mostly in the form of country picnics rather than assemblies at home. But,
as wanderers afar, our hearts and thoughts turn towards ours and our friends, while
deep down in our hearts is the feeling that we would prefer dear foggy old London
town, grim and frowning though it be at this time of the year, to the smiles of Nature
down here under the glitter of the Southern Cross. This, not because we are either
unhappy or ungrateful, but because we love our homeland, and our lifelong friends
therein. Our prayer is: May none be less happy to-day in merrie England than we are
in ‘sunny Australia,’ as those who dwell in this Commonwealth delight to describe the
land in which they live! How true it is that sentiment plays a larger part in our lives
than many are, often, willing to acknowledge.
December 25th, 1902.
It is now Christmas Day, and contrary to the prognostications of my previously-
mentioned friend, the temperature is not what he foretold, for the glass in my dining-
room is only indicating 66deg. The wind is still coming in squalls, clouds are
numerous, and the sun is making brave, but not very successful, efforts to favour us
with his presence. I am assured the weather is quite exceptional for this time of the
year, which is, of course, midsummer here. But so many times have we been told that
this or that state of the weather is exceptional, that the conclusion is being forced upon
us that the Melbourne climate is every whit as mixed and uncertain as is the climate of
our native city.
184
We are spending a quiet Christmas- our three selves and Miss May Robertson, of
Glasgow, constituting our family gathering. Miss Robertson has been in Australia for
almost a year for the benefit of her health, and when she reached us a few days ago
we were simply astonished at the very great improvement she manifested since we
parted with her at Tilbury Docks in January last.
In response to a pressing desire my work in Melbourne was carried forward an
additional Sunday, and did not terminate until the first Sunday of this month. A very
numerous audience attended, and the utmost good feeling was manifested. Much
regret was expressed that my work was closed, but the announcement of my return for
a further course in the autumn was enthusiastically applauded when made by Mr.
Terry, the president of the association. On the two succeeding Sundays I lectured in
Geelong and Ballarat, respectively. The first named city is a charming place, and the
centre of a very large trade in wool and agricultural produce. It has a population of
about 15,000, and is about forty-five miles by rail from this city. By steamer, which is
largely used, for the city is on an arm of the bay, the distance is a trifle more. The trip
takes about four hours, and is very enjoyable and cheap, three shillings and sixpence
for the return, as against eleven shillings by rail. A small circle has been in existence
for a considerable time, at which a very promising trance speaker, Mr. H. Hobson, has
been developed. The meeting was held in the Hibernian Hall, and we had a most
satisfactory attendance. But prejudice runs hard against the subject, and ministers
frequently warn their flocks from dealing in any form with so dangerous (?) a topic!
At Ballarat the state of affairs can only be described as deplorable. That city, with
East Ballarat, has a population of about 44,000, and at one time (1878) had a
flourishing Psychological Society, which body secured the services of Dr. Slade and
Mr. Jesse Shepard for a series of seances, the results of which were recorded in a
work issued by the late Mr. James Curtis, called ‘Rustlings in the Golden City,’ an
English edition of which was lately issued by the publishers of ‘LIGHT’; and, so far
as Mr. Shepard's mediumship was concerned, the results were published in a
pamphlet compiled by Mr. R. Lorrimer and issued by the society. Mr. Curtis was an
old and respected citizen of Ballarat, owning one of the large printing establishments
there. His business is now conducted by his niece. The society died, and in place of it
an ‘Eclectic Association’ was formed, the latter body being in reality a Freethought
association, and its principles being far too much in advance of the time, it fell into
disrepute and soon became defunct. Most of the members were Spiritualists, so they,
and the subject, shared in the common odium cast on the Freethought effort, and since
then only two or three people have dared to say they are Spiritualists; The Mr.
Lorrimer mentioned above was the only person who would undertake to promote my
visit. The rest of the few avowed Spiritualists promised to attend the lecture, but
emphatically refused to identify themselves openly with my presence, or take any
active share therein! As a matter of fact, I was only introduced to three other
Spiritualists, the rest being literally afraid to compromise themselves by being seen
with a Spiritualist lecturer! The three local papers positively refused to name the
matter for fear of being boycotted by their advertisers or supporters; while the
advertisements of the meeting said not a word about Spiritualism! In the worst days at
home I never encountered such timidity on the part of our people or our local Press.
So far as mental freedom goes in regard to religious questions, I regret to say that I
find a very different condition of affairs from what I had been led to believe was the
case. Sectarian intolerance prevails in no small degree. My meeting was held in the
185
Trades Hall, a neat hall capable of seating some three hundred people, and as there
was an audience of nearly two hundred, Mr. Lorrimer said the attendance ‘exceeded
his most sanguine expectations.’
Ballarat is one of the original gold mining; centres, and that industry is still
flourishing, but it is all ‘scientific’ mining now. The pick, pan, and cradle have given
place to the shaft, the stamp, and the mercury and cyanide processes. The ‘digger’ is
displaced by the company, the camp by offices. Surface mining is a thing of the past,
deep sinking is now the rule. I was introduced to the president of the mining
Exchange, Mr. W.F. Emery, who is also the manager of the South Star Quartz Mining
Company and by his courtesy was enabled, in his company, to make a descent to the
1,400 feet level. Imagine a North country coal pit, without the dirt and grime, with the
usual heading and winding gear, engines and pumping machinery, and you have a
modern gold mine. Below ground the tunnels are about six feet high, with plenty of
water running down the ‘roads,’ and at that depth the air is quite warm. One has to
quite change one's clothes and put on canvas suits with thick boots, and he emerges
into the daylight looking most disreputable, covered with mud, and partially soaked
with water. Absolutely no romance is left, and getting gold is as prosaic nowadays as
is winning coal. Their Royal Highnesses the Duke and Duchess of York, when on
their late visit, visited the mine in question, and the company spent £250 in preparing
for their visit, providing expensive decorations, dresses for their use, and so arranging
matters that not the least inconvenience should be experienced. The visit was to be to
the 2,000 feet level, which is perfectly dry, but the distinguished visitors refused to
fulfil their intention of descending, so the money was wasted, and a not pleasant
recollection is now retained. It is said, how truly I cannot say, that Lord Hopetoun,
who was then Governor General, laid an embargo on the descent, yet there was not
the slightest danger, while naturally every precaution was taken to prevent any
mishap. Personally I enjoyed the visit to the mine, but feel no temptation to become a
miner!
On the last day of this month I sail in the ss. ‘Warrimoo’ for New Zealand, my first
point being Invercargill, where I give a lantern lecture. The next day I proceed to
Dunedin for six Sundays, some few of which will be devoted to Christchurch. Then I
go on to Wellington for a month, returning to Melbourne, via Sydney, and possibly
giving the latter city one or two Sundays. In April I hold my closing meetings here,
and then go on to Brisbane for a month. After that we sail for the United States. Miss
Morse has just returned from a most successful five weeks' work in Wellington, New
Zealand, and will commence work in Melbourne for the association in January. But
during my absence she and Mrs. Morse will remain here. I hope in my next to be able
to say something regarding a series of very interesting seances I have been attending.
But my space is gone, so, for this time, I must lay aside my pen.
66, Wilson-street,
Hawksburn, Melbourne, Australia.
………………………………………………….
186
How to obtain this Newsletter
The Psypioneer newsletter is at present available, complete with all back issues
on the web site http://www.woodlandway.org and we are greatly indebted to our
Australian friends for hosting and posting this Newsletter. You can obtain it free
and direct by sending an e-mail entitled “Subscribe” to psypioneersub@aol.com or
“Unsubscribe” to discontinue.
To contact Psypioneer please e-mail. psypioneer@aol.com
Paul J. Gaunt
187
