{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/psypioneer.iapsop.com\/psypioneer_v2_n9_sep_2006.pdf","mytitle":"Psypioneer V2 N9 Sep 2006","mylang":"de"}
PSYPIONEER
Founded by Leslie Price Editor Paul J. Gaunt
Volume 2, No 9; September 2006
Available as an Electronic Newsletter
Highlights of this issue:
A Surprising Jesuit 188
Rogues and Vagabonds 203
Letters from Mr. J.J. Morse. V 208
How to obtain this Newsletter by email. 211
………………………………………………
A SURPRISING JESUIT
The English Jesuit Herbert Thurston (1856-1939) wrote many articles critical of
Spiritualism from 1917. Four of these were immediately republished as “Modern
Spiritualism” (London, Sheed & Ward, 1928 – The Twelvepenny Series) and so
displeased Arthur Conan Doyle that he published “The Roman Catholic Church, a
Rejoinder “(London, Psychic Press, 1929). Two of Thurston’s final articles, written
from his death bed, emphasised the disarray caused by the failure of the No War
Prophecies. (prior to World War II)
It comes as rather a surprise then to meet the claim that Herbert Thurston SJ was
actually a Spiritualist. This can be found in the front page story of Psychic News 11
November 1939, and is reprinted below.
THIS JESUIT PRIEST
ACCEPTED THE SPIRITUALIST CASE
FATHER HERBERT THURSTON, the 82-year-old Jesuit priest who passed on last
week, was a Spiritualist at heart. He accepted the case, but naturally could not make
a public avowal of his beliefs.
He enjoyed a great friendship with Bertha Hirst, the well-known medium. [a
captioned photograph of her in PN states “She and the priest became friends”] They
met in a London nursing home, where she was a patient. The Jesuit priest had con-
ducted Mass there and learned of her presence. They met, and it was the beginning of
a friendship which lasted for some years.
188
Spiritualism was the basis of nearly all their conversations. The priest told Mrs.
Hirst that while he considered it was dangerous for all and sundry to dabble in Spirit-
ualism he accepted its basic facts. He spoke of the seances he had attended and the
public meetings at which he had seen clairvoyance demonstrated.
He was, during the past few weeks, a patient in the same nursing home where they
met and during his illness constantly sent her messages. Recently he asked her, "Is
your opinion of Spiritualism affected by the failure of the 'No War' prophecies?"
"Not a bit," she replied.
"Neither is mine," was the priest's surprising comment.
On Monday morning, Bertha Hirst told a friend about a clairvoyant vision she had
three days earlier. He said he had just come from the Requiem Mass for Father
Thurston at Farm Street Church, and her vision described the coffin and its
surroundings in the chapel.
Roman Catholics are forbidden to attend seances, unless they obtain indulgences
from a priest. Father Thurston frequently gave these indulgences.
He was fascinated and dazzled by Spiritualism and undoubtedly possessed the
finest index on it. He could quote psychic happenings of 50, 60 and 70 years ago,
giving dates and details proving the efficiency of his filing index.
Naturally, in his writings in Roman Catholic journals, his loyalty to Rome made it
necessary for him to utter warnings to the "faithful."
He was reluctant to take part in foolish attacks on Spiritualism and reproved
Roman Catholics who did so.
When Father Knapp, one of his colleagues, toured the country giving exhibitions of
childish conjuring tricks, which he claimed "exposed" Spiritualism, he was reproved
by Father Thurston in the "Universe," Rome's leading paper in this country.
Father Knapp's lectures, he wrote, "undoubtedly leave the impression that
mediums are all impostors and the Spiritualists who consult them merely their dupes.
Is this true?"
Then he quoted the view of priest, a Professor of Natural Science, who after
attending seances with Rudi Schneider and Maria Silbert said that "The rejection of
all the physical phenomena of mediumship as fraudulent is unwarranted in fact and is
dangerous to sound apologetic."
Two years ago, when the Confraternity, which seeks to unite Spiritualism and the
Churches, held a meeting at the People's Palace, East London, Father Thurston sent
a letter regretting his absence and expressing his "sympathy for the general cause
which you represent." He added, "I believe in Survival and should be glad to take a
part in any movement which aim at resisting the materialism which prevails around
us."
189
Once he was reproved by the "Catholic Herald" because of an article he wrote in
the "Daily Mail." The journal objected to his use of the word, "Spiritualism," said he
should have called it "Spiritism," and added, "We do not think that Father Thurston
has sufficiently emphasised the very determined attitude of Catholic Authority on the
matter."
He was a lovable opponent, courteous in his replies and without malice in keen
controversy.
Father Thurston would never defend the vulgar crudities of his own religion. When
Psychic News asked him to express his opinion on some blatant advertisements in the
Roman Catholic Press, he said he disliked the suggestion that there was any magical
charm in "miraculous" relics. And he disagreed with the 17th century teachings of his
own church which frightened naughty children with lurid pictures of their fate in
Hell!
Still, he was a Jesuit priest, bound, out of loyalty, to expound the teachings of
Rome. Though it required great mental agility to reconcile his own knowledge with
his Church’s views, Father Thurston, who was undoubtedly the best-informed Jesuit
on psychic matters, managed to present both aspects.
When you read his writings in Roman Catholic publications you concluded he was
anti-Spiritualist. When you read his writings in Spiritualist publications you had to
assume he was almost a whole-hearted Spiritualist.
Now he has gone to the spirit world about which he wrote half his life.
…………………
Some of this article probably derives from what Bertha Hirst told Maurice Barbanell
about her conversations with Thurston. It is alleged that Thurston gave many
dispensations, that he wrote pro-Spiritualist articles in psychic publications (such as
LIGHT), and that his views were not affected by the No War prophecies.
If Thurston was really a Spiritualist, what was he doing in his many critical articles?.
A possible explanation may come from the work for which he was best known in the
Roman Church - the critical study of the lives of saints (hagiography). In his day,
before anyone could be recognised as a saint in that Church, a long process was
necessary, during which a person popularly called the Devil’s Advocate would
attempt to refute the evidence of holiness. Thurston played a similar role in
Spiritualism. His especial target was the weakness in evidence of identity, but he also
pointed out how grandiose claims made at the beginning of the Movement in 1848
had not been fulfilled, and analysed the reasons for the failure.
He was very persistent. Many of his papers were worked up into a book “The Church
and Spiritualism” (Milwaukee, 1933- revised second printing 1935 390 pages). He
was back in “The Month”, the Jesuit journal in a four part series in 1938 “Some
knotty points for Spiritualists.”, which recycled some of this material. As already
mentioned, he continued writing to the end.
190
His artillery was extensive. An American Professor, Henry Ford of Princeton, had
sent him some early Spiritualist books. He had access to the SPR of which he was a
member (his obituary in “The Times” wrongly said he was not) and to the British
Museum Library. No Spiritualist in his time knew so well the early journals like
“Medium and Daybreak”- except possibly A. Campbell Holms. (author of “Facts of
Psychic Science and Philosophy” 1925; University Books 1969). If Thurston had a
criticism to make of Spiritualism, he could usually find several representative
Spiritualists to cite in support.
In his writings for Church publications, Thurston was of course subject to the official
censorship, of which he had experience since he joined “The Month” in 1891. He
would therefore point out that the Church had not pronounced on the essential nature
of psychic phenomena, though it had warned the faithful to keep off because of the
dangers. The human testimony to phenomena was like that to events in biblical days.
It would not do to be too sceptical of one as this would undermine the other. Thurston
ran into trouble with articles in “The Month” in 1917 which held open the possibility
of communication with the dead. This is revealed in Joseph Crehan’s biography”
Father Thurston” (Sheed and Ward, 1952) which was itself censored in the usual way.
Thurston’s paper on Katie King and Florence Cook in “The Church and Spiritualism”
is the fullest available discussion before 1960. His paper in the same place on the
accordion playing of Home is still the standard reference. He was clearly sympathetic
to the two younger Fox sisters. But of course his religion was that of his Church, and
he naturally pointed out the weaknesses of spirit teachings.
Any student of the psychic pioneers will profit from his writings. In his review of
Crehan, Thurston’s friend Dr Dingwall suggested a possible weakness in Thurston’s
analysis.
Towards the end of his life Fr Thurston became more and more prone to believe
the stories of spiritualistic phenomena printed in presumably reputable
journals, and my oft-repeated words of caution merely seemed to him to be the
product of an unreasoning scepticism.
This review in JSPR November 1952 is (with Crehan’s biography itself) an
essential resource in the study of Thurston. It was undoubtedly a problem that
Thurston was not in general able to witness mediumship and to compare
personal experience with published accounts, though privately he may well
have witnessed more than he wrote about.
Although Thurston’s basic views may have been unchanged by the No-War
prophecies debacle, I suggest that he was shaken. His first prompt response was
in the Catholic weekly “The Tablet.” For September 16th, 1939) p. 357).
191
Copyright in Fr Thurston's work is held by the British Province of the Society of
Jesus. The full text of this and of the following article are reproduced by virtue of
written permission given to PsyPioneer News.
SPIRITUALISTS AND THEIR "NO WAR" PREDICTIONS
By HERBERT THURSTON, S.J.
THE TABLET, it will be readily understood, would not be likely under normal
circumstances to recommend to its readers the perusal of a journal which describes
itself as "the Spiritualist Newspaper with the world's largest net sale." But I venture to
suggest that an exception may be made for the issue of Psychic News, which bears the
date, September 9th, 1939. That organ of the cult, which for many months past has
been assuring believers in communication with the other world that despite all
political forebodings the people of England would not be involved in war, is now
confronted by the hostilities which have actually begun. Psychic News has at least the
honesty to admit the irreconcilable contradiction between the conditions definitely
existing and its previous utterances. In a large-type article on its front page, the
Editor, Mr. Maurice Barbanell, addresses his readers thus:-
"Spiritualists are facing their blackest week. This is a time when their faith,
founded on personal experience, is being strained to the uttermost limits of human
endurance.
"For many months, nearly all the great guides made two definite prophecies:
`There will be no major war in Europe. England will not be involved in war.'
"The second prediction has been shattered. It would be possible to equivocate by
saying that this land of ours has not been invaded or bombed at the time these words
are written. That is not our intention. Neither do we think the prophecy could be so
distorted."
The Editor goes on under the heading: They all agreed. "This forecast was not
made by one isolated, obscure spirit guide. It was repeated again and again by all
those in whom Spiritualists had placed their faith for guidance.
"Even as recently as last week-end, and after the Prime Minister's declaration that
a `state of war' existed, the spirit messages continued to affirm that peace would
prevail, at that late hour. And the messages came from three mediums whose integrity
has never been disputed."
Mr. Barbanell can only take refuge in the admission that "spirit guides are not
infallible . . . they are human beings who, in spite of their evolution, are still liable to
error." What is more he adds: "It may be that in the days to come many of us will
have to remould part of our philosophy. The belief in the spirit world's ability to
forecast may have to be abandoned."
192
On the other hand, Mr. Shaw Desmond, a prominent Spiritualist whose literary
gifts are widely recognized, addressing an audience of his fellow believers at the
Queen's Hall on the Sunday evening after the declaration of war, was so unshaken in
his convictions as to declare:-
"I say to every woman and man listening to me tonight that the great spirit guides
have not failed. If there is any failure, it is not in the world of spirit- it is in the world
of man. "
And he went on:-
"Is there a man or woman here so base as to believe that the guides who have led
us year by year, who have given us the message of faith and truth and goodness,
would deceive us now. Even though the sword fell I would still say the fulfilment of
God is not our fulfilment. There is more than one way of fulfilment of prophecy."
As the title of his discourse (i.e., "The Last Days of Adolf Hitler") would seem to
suggest, Mr. Desmond's solution, if it can be called a solution, is that Hitler, although
he may not pass from the scene at once, "already knows that his doom approaches."
The war will therefore be short. On quite different lines a medium of note, Mrs. Helen
Hughes, is cited as offering this explanation. Only twenty-four hours before the
declaration of war her spirit guide came to tell her that the efforts of the spirit people
had failed. "The forces of light and good had contacted forces of material darkness
which they could not penetrate, and for the moment their hearts, "she reported, "were
as sad as ours."
There is not much consolation to be found in this, and I fancy that the reaction of
the more thoughtful and reasonable adherent of the movement will be similar to that
of a correspondent whose letter is printed in the same issue of Psychic News.
"With a heart full of despair, I feel I must write and tell you how bitterly
disappointed I am with the apparently inevitable failure of your `No War' prophecies.
"I had just become interested in the subject of Spiritualism, and thought I was on
the verge of something very wonderful; but if the spirit guides are not to be trusted on
such a major issue, then it seems that the bottom is knocked out of the whole subject."
It is an ill wind that brings nobody any good, and it may be that this awful tragedy
of a European war has after all its minor compensations. No one can doubt that the
war of 1914 gave new life to the spiritualistic movement, then steadily losing ground.
There was much excuse at that time for parents, wives and sweethearts, for the most
part people ill-prepared to accept their bereavement with Christian resignation, if
they consulted mediums and soothsayers. It was impossible to sit still, and this was
the only source of comfort which seemed to offer possible relief. Then came Sir Oliver
Lodge's book, Raymond, which made such dabbling with the occult respectable, and
even lent it a scientific complexion. Finally this was followed by an endless stream of
private revelations from the beyond, obtained through automatic writing, and this in
spite of the endless contradictions of its messages, has increased, rather than
diminished, down to the present day.
193
Let us then be glad, in spite of the uncertain future which lies before us, that the
opening of the present war has been marked by the astounding set-back which our
spiritualist journals are unable to dispute or ignore. They recognize the outbreak of
hostilities as the nullification of a very positive, and practically unanimous, prediction
of NO WAR, voiced by communicators in the other world.
The one or two exceptions mentioned in last week's number of Light certainly
cannot be recognized as coming from mediums who are held by their fellow
Spiritualists to speak with authority. It is to be hoped that this catastrophic
bankruptcy of the guarantors of the bureau des informations in the beyond will be
widely taken to heart.
It is perhaps, in fairness, well to add that the shattering exposure of the fallibility
of mediums now under discussion does not of course mean that the mediums
themselves, especially those of the better class, are all impostors, or are practising
their trade in bad faith. There are endless examples on record of information
imparted through such channels which has been verified and proved absolutely exact,
though no explanation even by the widest extension of the telepathic faculty can be
adduced to account for it. Neither does it seem, speaking for myself at least, that
diabolic intervention can reasonably be invoked, in the majority of the cases I am
thinking of, to explain the extraordinary knowledge exhibited. There are even
seemingly well-attested cases of precision in a form which, according to the most
reliable theological opinion, would exceed the natural powers of any diabolic
intelligence. What seems to be certain is that we know nothing of the process by which
knowledge is conveyed to the mind of the psychic, and that we have no possibility of
making sure of the identity of the communicator, supposing that there is any
communicator, which after all still remains one of the great problems of the whole
question. On the other hand it may be confidently asserted that the information
communicated in this way is always liable to error. Even after a long series of
successes communications are apt to fail egregiously just at the moment when some
point of particular interest presents itself for solution.
………………………
The skill of this article by an author in the closing days of his life was
expanded with equal elegance in a longer paper for his own Jesuit journal “The
Month.” October 1939.
SPIRITUALISM AND THE WAR
MORE than once in past years, when speaking or writing of Spiritualism, I have
made reference to the Tichborne case as an illustration of the unreliability of the
information which professes to come through mediums or automatists from denizens
in the world beyond. In those spacious Victorian days when nothing more agitating
than a cause celebre was available to fill the newspapers and become the topic of
universal discussion, the identity of the Claimant provided a grand opportunity for the
spirits to prove their superior knowledge of things about which ordinary mortals were
baffled owing to the lack of adequate evidence. If it were not Roger Tichborne who
was pleading his cause in the court of Mr. Justice Cockburn at Westminster, the true
194
Roger ought to have been in the next world and easily identifiable by the discarnate
intelligences he lived amongst. Moreover, there was Arthur Orton, concerning whom
many dead people must have known a good deal. At that date the most widely
circulated among the Spiritualist newspapers was The Medium and Daybreak, and
many letters were addressed to the editor by correspondents who claimed to have
received direct information about the topic of the hour from their controls or
communicators in the spheres. Unfortunately, opinions were divided. One party
declared quite positively that the Claimant was the man, but the rest, upon equally
sound discarnate authority, denied it. The editor published some of the letters, but in
the end, as they multiplied and remained evenly balanced pro and con, he frankly
admitted the disagreement and refused to print anything more upon the subject. It will
be noticed that the disputed point in this case was one of past historical fact, a fact by
no means so remote in date as to be beyond the memory of Roger's contemporaries,
many of them still living. One would have said that if the spirits in the other world
were capable of conveying exact information about anything, they would have been
able to speak with certainty here.
The problem which, during the last twelve months, has claimed a good deal of
notice in all the Spiritualist journals is of a very different character. It concerned
what was then the future, i.e., the question whether, in the course of 1939, open
hostilities would break out between England and Germany. In the opinion of
practically all the leaders of so-called occult science, Spiritualists, astrologers and
such like, the more trusted controls who brought messages from the etheric possessed
the gift of prevision, or at any rate handed on the inspired thought of those who did
possess that gift. In the previous crisis of September, 1938, the majority of mediums
proclaimed that war would be avoided; and so, in fact, it proved, but only at the last
moment, owing to Mr. Chamberlain's splendid effort, which resulted in the Munich
agreement.
No doubt this success encouraged persistence in the same line of thought. Without
in the least accusing the mediums concerned of conscious insincerity, for after sixty
years of investigation we still know little or nothing of the process by which such
impressions are received and find utterance, there was an even stronger consensus of
opinion, in what we may call the psychic world, when we were faced with the crisis
which confronted us in the autumn of the present year. War, it was declared by a
large number of the most gifted and reliable mediums, was not to be feared for the
present, and, indeed, many of them assured us that it would not come at all. It was,
perhaps, natural that devoted adherents of the cult should trust this prediction
implicitly.
What cannot, I think, be denied by anyone who makes an impartial examination of
the evidence, is that in the case of the better class of psychics a multitude of facts,
mostly trivial or personal in their nature, are habitually disclosed by them, with
regard to their knowledge, of which no acceptable explanation- trickery, telepathy,
cryptesthesia, a cosmic reservoir of memory, etc. -seems to be available. It is natural
also that the many contradictions, errors and failures, especially when some question
of importance (e.g., reincarnation) is raised, should be ignored or forgotten. But
however we explain or excuse it, there can be no doubt that down to the end of last
August the Spiritualistic journals and many individuals who believed themselves to be
in communication with unseen powers, were persuaded that the political clouds,
195
which, as day succeeded day, grew continually more threatening, would be dispersed
and that no war would eventuate. That Spiritualists as a body identified themselves
with this prediction is beyond dispute. In Light, the most sober of the organs of the
cult, Mr. W. H. Evans, a prominent contributor, writing in the week after the outbreak
of hostilities, declares:
“There will be many heart-searchings amongst Spiritualists at the failure of the
prophecies that there would be no war. The unanimity of the controls has been such
that one felt war would be impossible. With a few exceptions we were assured that
there would be no war. [He adds] I have heard some say: "If war comes I will never
believe in Spiritualism again." That is an entirely illogical attitude. We do not
condemn the science of mathematics because a mathematician makes a mistake. We
allow for the possibility of error.”
I must confess that logic does not seem to me here to be on the side of Mr. Evans.
It is not a question of one mathematician making a mistake, but of a score or more of
mathematicians all independently making the same mistake. Consideration also must
be had for the gravity of the issue. We are not inquiring here whether somebody's
grandfather was called Dick or Tom, wore Wellington boots or patent leathers, or
whether his portrait was hung over the fireplace or on the opposite wall- this is the
type of question which is often successfully answered by our best mediums. The
anxiety which has filled the hearts of all Englishmen, and of the peoples of countless
other nations, was to know whether the world would be plunged into a war in which
millions of human lives were bound to be sacrificed. And to assuage that anguish of
doubt, the marvellously gifted spirits, if we are to believe mediums of the highest
credit, reply in concert: "There is no cause for fear; war will not come." Neither was
there any suggestion that they themselves were in doubt or were capable of being
deceived.
The editor of Light, Mr. G. H. Lethem, speaks rather more guardedly than his
colleague, but he says in the same issue:
“During the past year, Light has published many messages, purporting to come
from observers on the Other Side, in which assurances were given, more or less em-
phatic, that there would be "no European War," or that there would be "no Great
War," or that there would be "no war for England." We have also, from time to time,
quoted predictions based on astrological calculations, most of which seemed to
confirm the mediumistic messages. We told our readers that these messages and
predictions gave grounds for hoping and even believing, that Peace would be
preserved... As events have proved, our hopes have been disappointed. War has come
to Europe; there is war for England, and all the signs point to its being a Great War.
It is a bitter disappointment, this cannot be denied. But there is no reason to doubt the
veracity, or even the existence of the various Communicators from whom the Peace
messages purported to come.”
Mr. Lethem is also able to refer to one medium, Mrs. Helen Spiers, "who has for
months predicted that war would come," and also to an astrologer, Mr. Charles E.
Mitchell of Halifax, who, in his book "Foretold by the Stars," declared that war would
break out between August, 1939, and March, 1940, though this pronouncement was
firmly discredited by a reviewer in another Spiritualist organ, The Two Worlds.
196
Certain it is that Spiritualists as a body were definitely committed to the belief,
founded on a great number of supposed communications from the Beyond, that the
war which threatened would be averted. Even in America a well-known English
adherent of the cause broadcast, about a month ago, the announcement that: "The
Spiritualists in England, who are about one and a half million in number, all believe
that there will be no more war. Spirit friends on the Other Side are constantly
bringing us this message." I very much doubt the statement that there are anything
like a million and a half Spiritualists in this country,(1) and the fact that. the number is
limited of those who are active supporters of the movement (as opposed to mere
dabblers who occasionally visit a medium or attend a platform demonstration out of
curiosity) is, for more than one reason, a source of satisfaction.
Prominent leaders like Sir Oliver Lodge and Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, quite a long
time ago, used to be assured by communicators from the Beyond that in ten years or
so all the population would be professing Spiritualism. The prediction has certainly
not been fulfilled. If it had, the Spiritualist persuasion that no war was imminent
would surely have frustrated the unanimous action of all political parties in spending
vast sums over our preparations to meet the emergency. We should have been left as
naked victims for Hitler to work his will upon. It is lucky indeed that the Spiritualists
are neither numerous nor influential among us.
Psychic News, which claims the largest circulation of any Spiritualist newspaper,
has spoken with extraordinary frankness of the dismay caused by the shattering of
beliefs so widely held. I have dealt with these utterances elsewhere,(2) but I cannot
omit to quote a sentence or two from an article on the front page of the journal just
named, signed by the editor, Mr. Maurice Barbanell. He begins with the statement:
"Spiritualists are facing their blackest week. This is a time when their faith, founded
on personal experience, is being strained to the uttermost limits of human endurance.
For many months, nearly all the great guides made two definite prophecies.
`There will be no major war in Europe. England will not be involved in war.'’’ He
goes on to point out that "this forecast was not made by one isolated, obscure spirit
guide. It was repeated again and again by all those in whom Spiritualists had placed
their faith for guidance." In conclusion Mr. Barbanell even says: "It may be that in
days to come many of us will have to re-mould part of our philosophy. The belief in
the spirit world's ability to forecast may have to be abandoned." Those who know
anything of the tone of Mr. Barbanell's contributions for several years past to the
periodical which he conducts, or those who have at any time listened to his speeches,
will be surprised- indeed, I might say, edified - by the courage with which he admits
the magnitude of the set-back to the cause he has so ardently espoused.
To provide yet one further illustration of the tone prevalent in Spiritualist circles in
almost the last days of the crisis, I quote from The Two Worlds, a Manchester organ
of the cult. In the issue for August 18th, we find printed in the most conspicuous type,
with a heading in proportionate capitals, the following announcement:
197
“WORLD PEACE NOT TO BE BROKEN
Will there be a World Peace Pact?
While a state of preparedness for war is necessary, and Spiritualists in the main
fully endorse the policy of the Government in their armament programme, yet Spiri-
tualists are in a large measure fully convinced there will be no Great World War. This
fact has been given from our platforms during the last twelve months by scores of
mediums: but there are still the fearful, not only around us but among us, and this
being so (writes the "Londoner"), I make no apology for giving readers of The Two
Worlds three most assuring messages which I have heard given from our platforms
during the last month.”
I may note that in the next issue of the same journal two strong protests were
made, by no means approving endorsement of the Government policy in their arms
programme, but I proceed to quote, by way of specimen, one of the "three most
assuring messages" just spoken of. The two others are of the same character and not
a whit more convincing. Anyway, one medium, speaking to a small circle in London,
stated:
“I am in a large hall. There is a long table in the centre, and seated round are
representatives of all nations. I see our Prime Minister (Mr. Neville Chamberlain) in
the chair; a large Golden Cross is above his head. A document lies on the table in
front of him, and one by one each member present comes forward and signs. It is a
Peace Pact. The Prime Minister fades away and in his seat appears the radiant form
of Jesus, a golden crown upon his head. On either side appear the spirit forms of
Buddha and Confucius representing the East. Then Jesus, followed by Buddha and
Confucius, walked through the lines of the representatives of the nations, while high
up in the hall appeared an angelic choir singing the Hallelujah Chorus.
Interpretation: World Peace Pact, signed with Love for the whole world.”
It must be confessed that the acceptance of this and similar communications as if
they were evidential and "most reassuring," does not give a high impression of the
critical intelligence of the readers of The Two Worlds. Neither is there anything very
satisfactory in the account printed on the front page of the same paper in its next issue
(August 28th), of a message from the late Lord Northcliffe. It is stated that through
"Bert," the control of Mrs. Winifred Ellis, a medium whose name is quite unknown to
me, an assurance came in this form: "Northcliffe says: `tell the people on your side
there will be no great war. It gives the spirit world great joy to give you earth people
this good news.' "
But my main purpose in the present article is to say something of the
communications recorded by a lady, whom a well-known authority in these circles,
Dr. F. W. Wood, describes as "the greatest writing medium in our generation." This is
Miss Geraldine Cummins, an Irishwoman whose reputation has been mainly achieved
by the narratives she has published concerning early Christian history, mostly
belonging to the period covered by the Acts of the Apostles. There can be no question
that upon those readers who are unfamiliar with the problems of automatic writing
198
these "Scripts of Cleophas," and the supplementary volumes, are likely to make a
considerable impression.
Miss Cummins tells us herself that it was contrary to all her tastes and inclinations to
produce a narrative dealing with the religious history of the first century. She says,
for example: "My ignorance is considerable concerning that period. I know neither
Greek, Hebrew nor Latin; and my reading is confined to literature of a modern
character." In particular she affirms that she has never read a word of the
Apocryphal Acts of the Apostles, and that the very name of the Clementines was
unknown to her until after her first Cleophas book was in type. (3) There can, I think,
be no possible reason to doubt these statements, for Miss Cummins had done other
literary work before the Cleophas scripts began, and her friends are familiar with her
personal history.
Moreover, there is something abnormal about the production of these scripts. The
automatist goes into a slight trance and her hand begins to write with a speed which
is quite bewildering. Little short of 2,000 words (that is the equivalent of more than
four pages of THE MONTH) are sometimes written in an hour. Moreover, the literary
style maintained in these narratives is excellent and seems altogether superior to
anything produced by Miss Cummins in her conscious attempts at original
composition. As she herself says:
“In the interests of psychology and psychical research. I have to admit that the
production of these Scripts is quite outside the compass of my conscious creative
powers. Day after day, in the presence of witnesses, I have sat for over a month in a
country house, far from books, with not even a Bible near me, getting this detailed
chronicle with the same abnormal rapidity; the MS. each day being taken away and
not read out to me, to avoid the possibility that my subconscious mind might be
considered to be building in advance upon it. Yet those who have read the first
published instalment will perceive that the narrative maintains an episodic unity.” (4)
My own impression, derived from a perusal of a good deal of these texts, is that
they do not afford much positive material for sceptical criticism. They do not directly
conflict with the narrative or the implications of the New Testament. They introduce
many new episodes and many new names of which nothing is elsewhere on record.
Some of the matter is occasionally extravagant, but not more extravagant than what
we find in the apocryphal Acts of St. Thomas, St. Andrew or St. John, not to speak of
the Clementines. A small committee of divines, mostly, it seems, Presbyterians, were
invited to examine the "Scripts of Cleophas," and we learn that, under the leadership
of the late Dr. Lamond, they arrived at the conclusion that: "If the present record be
in any wise authentic, it is undoubtedly to be regarded as a most momentous
contribution to our knowledge of Apostolic times. It contains much which, on
consideration of the life and mentality of the intermediary, Miss Cummins, seems
quite inexplicable on the supposition of human authorship."
It may be presumed that these divines knew little or nothing of the supposed
"Patience Worth" who, through the lips of the late Mrs. Curran in the United States,
dictated whole novels, one at least of them of a scriptural character, and even with a
rapidity which exceeds that recorded in Miss Cummins's case. Mrs. Curran was a
woman who had no education but what was of a most elementary kind, yet from her
199
lips, or through her hands, flowed correct descriptions of many things which she
could not normally have known anything about. The same is probably true of Dr.
Wood's "Rosemary”; and, to take an example of a quite different character, Sister
Anne Catherine Emmerich, who read nothing, and, according to the testimony of her
amanuensis Clement Brentano, knew extraordinarily little even about the contents of
the Gospels, quoted texts with perfect accuracy in her "Revelations," and was never
betrayed into any direct contradiction with the New Testament narrative. Thus, in
view of the 500,000 words or more recorded in the Cleophas script and its
continuations, it is impossible to deny Miss Cummins's claim to be accounted a
genuine psychic.
Now this lady, besides these amplifications of New Testament history which have
excited so much attention, has also displayed her mediumistic powers in other
directions. She professes, in the first place, to have received a number of messages
from the late F. W. H. Myers, the famous psychic researcher, author of "Human
Personality," and two collections of these have been printed; but, still more recently,
other spirits in the Beyond seem to have sought her out in order to impart messages to
mankind through her hand. One of these is referred to as "the Politician," whose real
name is known to Miss Cummins but not made public. Myers, on March 13, 1938,
declared that he had been talking with "the Politician" who told him that "there will
be no European war, but bloodshed in Austria," a prediction regarding bloodshed
which does not seem to have been justified by any very notable happening occasioned
by the Anschluss. Again, on May 1, 1938, "the Politician," communicating in person,
announced:
“Now, through recent diplomacy, Germany has become isolated and in
consequence there will be no war. Chamberlain has, I think, saved Europe.”
Again, at a sitting on October 10, 1938, another communicator, who is referred to
as "the Financier," declared:
“By delaying and delaying the apparently inevitable war, she [England] gives the
revolting party in Germany a chance to become strong - so strong that, eventually,
they turn on the present regime and attack it openly. I think, therefore, that a great
war can and will be averted. But you go dangerously near it, and only the strength of
your armaments will prevent its outbreak.”
On October 16, 1938, "the Financier" came again and spoke more positively:
“Now as to the future. At the present time, if Germany fought the Allies she would
not be able to maintain a war for more than a month. The reason for this is that she is
nearly bankrupt. . . No, during the next eighteen months, Germany is in no position to
go to war - only the madness of a greater fear, fear of a revolution within, would goad
her rulers into starting a European war. . . Peace for the next eighteen months. Let
that be your motto. I cannot see further than that period.”
The same guide, "the Financier," reiterated his forecast in rather more positive
terms on January 25, 1939.
200
“I have told you before and I repeat it again, there is to be no war during the next
few years. I cannot see further. There is to be no European war in which many
countries will be involved. You will hear of riots and you will hear of horrible deeds
committed in Spain, and in March nations will be faced with a serious crisis. The
majority of people will believe that war is inevitable. This belief is entirely mistaken.”
Later on that same day (January 25th) another communicator gave this
encouraging message:
“Be of good cheer! In this year ye pass through the Valley of the Shadow of Death
but come through unscathed. Peace, hardly retained, will be retained in the coming
year and the year after this one.”
On July 23, 1939, "the Financier" committed himself still more positively in the
following terms:
“Hitler and Mussolini have been making very complete preparations for war in
connexion with the Mediterranean and Danzig. But it is the greatest bluff of all. They
won't fight, but most people will believe they are going to fight in September -
possibly. Remember, no war.”
The italics appear in the script; but the same communicator certainly seemed to
weaken when, on August 22nd, the day of the surprise announcement concerning the
Russo-German pact, he wrote again: "England, France and Poland do not fight the
Axis Powers... I think the tide is turning."
All these messages were collected, about mid-August, in a booklet called "The
European Crises," for which Miss E. B. Gibbes, Miss Cummins's friend and secretary,
furnished a commentary. (5) Miss Gibbes is apparently much impressed by the
intuition shown by the communicators in respect of the events which have occurred
during the two years previous to the declaration of war. I confess I find many mis-
takes in the record, and no more trace of a gift of prevision than I should expect to
meet with in any journalist who kept abreast of contemporary developments. What is
certain is that the war has come in spite of the mass of Spiritualistic predictions to the
contrary.
Further, with this fact before our eyes, I find it impossible to put any faith in those
retrospective visions of early Christian history recorded by Miss Cummins which
purport to come from Cleophas and other disciples of the period. I admit that they do
seem to reflect the spirit of the times. It is even possible that some incidents recorded
are veridical, but we do not know how they came into Miss Cummins's subconscious
mind. Anne Catherine Emmerich described in great detail a six weeks' visit of our
Lord to Cyprus during the period of His public life. It is beyond question that a great
deal of what this ignorant Westphalian girl tells us regarding the geography,
industries and mythology of the island in the first century is perfectly correct. No
explanation seems possible of the source of her information, but few will venture to
say that her disclosures are a revelation of heavenly origin and, consequently, have a
claim upon anyone's serious belief.
201
Perhaps one final word may not be out of place. I am not writing hastily or in
ignorance. During the past twenty years and more, I have spent, possibly wasted, a
great deal of time in examining and comparing the messages which purport to
emanate from the other world, but nothing has occurred to alter or relieve my
profound distrust of the information so obtained. The accounts furnished of life in the
spheres by such communicators as Raymond, Pheneas, Ballou, Claude Bamber, and
scores of others, contradict each other at every turn. It is rare enough to find them
agreeing about any feature whatsoever. There could be no stronger warning against
putting faith in their guidance than the fact that on the one occasion on which they
seemed to be unanimous in the information they gave, their conclusions have proved
to be definitely wrong.
HERBERT THURSTON.
----------------------------------------------------------
(1) What seems to me conclusive proof of the numerical weakness of Spiritualists in
England is a study of their weekly newspapers. Not an advertisement appears in their
attenuated pages but of mediumistic services, instruction courses, the paraphernalia
used on such occasions, and other things which, practically speaking, concern
Spiritualists only. Grocers, furniture dealers, haberdashers, etc., send their
advertisements to journals which they know have at least a moderately large
circulation. They extend such patronage to papers like the Anglican Church Times or
the Catholic Universe, but not to Psychic News. Moreover, from time to time, two at
least of these Spiritualist journals make an appeal for contributions to a "sustentation
fund."
(2) See The Tablet for September 16, 1939.
VOL. CLXXIV.
(3) See "Concerning the Cleophas Scripts," by Geraldine Cummins, PP. 4 and 7.
(4) "Concerning the Cleophas Scripts," p.6.
(5) The last message only appears in a second and later edition of the "Crises."
………………………………………………………………………………….
The closing remarks of this article in particular seem to me to show that although
Thurston believed in survival, and in some communication, he was more sceptical
than nearly all Spiritualists in his beliefs about the phenomena, while his religious
beliefs generally were those of an educated English Jesuit. But because his numerous
papers on psychic matters are scholarly and sympathetic, they can still today be read
with profit by students of whatever views. LP
202
ROGUES AND VAGABONDS
Modern Spiritualism since its onset and its growing popularity in England in the
early-mid 1850’s was potentially at risk from its mediums being arrested for simply
being a medium; an offence which carried little or no defence under the 1824
Vagrancy Act.
In 1876, Henry Slade and Francis Monck were arrested and charged under this same
Vagrancy Act, Slade’s trial began on October 1st
, venued at Bow Street Police Court,
London, with Monck being charged on the 11th
November, at Huddersfield, York;
both were sentenced to three months hard labour; Slade escaped his sentence on a
technicality and duly left England.
Slade and Monck were possibly the first Spiritualist mediums to be charged under this
vagrancy act, Francis Ward Monck being the first to serve a prison sentence as a
Spiritualist medium in 1877.( see John L. Randall “ Francis Ward Monck and the
problem of physical mediumship “ JSPR October 2003, p.243-259 “ with reply by
Michael Coleman in JSPR April 2004. )
I have printed below, only the conviction portion of the Judgment against Monck due
to space: This is taken from the ‘Report of Deputation from The Spiritualist National
Union to the Home Office 27th
July, 1943’. Published by the S.N.U. 1944. The Monck
Judgement was originally printed in ‘The Spiritualist’ Jan. 26, 1877.
Judgment in case of
MONCK v. HILTON,
6th February, 1877.
High Court of Justice. Exchequer Division
(Before Barons Cleasby & Pollock).
Rogue and Vagabond-Spiritualism-Palmistry or otherwise,
5 Geo. 4, C. 83, S. 4.
The appellant was convicted by justices under 5 Geo. 4, C.83, S.4., which makes
punishable as a rogue and vagabond "every person . . . . using any subtle craft,
means, or devices by Palmistry or otherwise to deceive and impose on any of His
Majesty's subjects." In a case stated for this Court, the justices found as a fact that the
appellant attempted to deceive and impose upon certain persons by falsely pretending
to have the supernatural faculty of obtaining from invisible agents and the spirits of
the dead answers, messages and manifestations of power, namely, noises, raps, and
the winding up of a musical box:-
Held that the means used by the appellant came within the words "by palmistry or
otherwise," and that the conviction was right.
Case stated by justices under 20 and 21 Vict. C.43.
203
1. At a Petty Sessions for the Borough of Huddersfield, in the County of York, on
the 11th November, 1876, Francis Ward Monck, the appellant, was charged by the
Respondent, under s .4. Of 5 Geo. 4, C.83, with having, on the 23rd October, 1876, at
Huddersfield, unlawfully used certain subtle craft, means, and devices, by palmistry
and otherwise, to deceive and impose on certain of Her Majesty's subjects, to wit',
Hepplestone, Bedford, Lodge, and others, contrary to the statute. The charge was
heard, and the appellant was convicted of the said offence and adjudged as a rogue
and vagabond, to be committed to the House of Correction at Wakefield to hard
labour for three calendar months….
It may appear that rebellion by spiritualists against this Vagrancy Act, and a need to
petition against it to protect their mediums may have started with the Matthews case
in 1880, some three years after Monck’s imprisonment.
Mr. F.O. Matthews a clairvoyant and trance test medium was jailed at Wakefield
prison under the 1824 Vagrancy Act. A statement appeared in Spiritual Notes.
May, 1880. p. 292-3. Vol.1.-no. XXIII.
"ROGUES AND VAGABONDS"
WHILE we write Mr. F. 0. Matthews is lying in common jail at Wakefield, whither he
has been committed by the magistrates assembled at the Keighley petty sessions for
three months' hard labour as a Rogue and a Vagabond, having, because he exercised
his gifts as a clairvoyant, been charged under 5 Geo. IV., cap. 83, sec. 4, with using
"subtle means or device, by palmistry or otherwise, to deceive or impose on" Her
Majesty's subjects. Mr. Matthews has fallen a victim to the iniquitous law from the
vengeance of which-or rather of his ignorant prosecutors-Dr. Slade so narrowly but
happily escaped. Mr. Matthews has our hearty sympathy; the cruel and unjust law,
and the cruel and unjust men who set it in motion against him, have at once our pity
and our indignation.
A "Rogue" and a "Vagabond" forsooth! A medium who professes to have
clairvoyant powers, of an abnormal condition, may possibly be a rogue, of course.
There are, we are sorry to know, dishonest and dishonourable mediums; but there are
also dishonest and dishonourable men in every grade of life. The iniquity lies here -
that, while bigoted men refuse to believe because they have refused to inquire, every
medium, whether he be honest or not, is accounted a rogue and an impostor without
proof. If a man only professes to exercise a gift, of the existence of which prejudiced
men know nothing, it is assumed at once that he is necessarily guilty of imposition and
deception; he is branded as a rogue and a vagabond; and is committed to jail without
mercy. And all this injustice is perpetrated under the shadow of a law which was
enacted before modern Spiritualism was heard of; in which, therefore, it was never
intended that Spiritualist mediums should be of necessity included; and the main
purpose of which was, obviously enough, the suppression of the swindling of
dishonest and disorderly vagrants, by whom, when the law was passed, the country
was notoriously infested. Had this act been intended from the first to include every
assumption of spiritual gifts, and the exercise of every "subtle means or device" which
was beyond the comprehension of average humanity, how is it that the Church has
escaped the consequence of pretending to confer the gift of the Holy Ghost by the
204
laying on of hands? The Church escapes because it is assumed that the Church is
honest, and that, even if it has not the power which it professes, it sincerely believes
that it has, and therefore is guiltless of any intentional deception or imposture. But in
the case of a Spiritualist medium, who can offer better proof of his gifts than any
priest or bishop has ever done, the law has no leniency whatever; establish the fact of
his profession and that suffices; away with him; three months hard labour; the fellow
is a Rogue and a Vagabond beyond a doubt!
What, then, is to be done? Are we to fold our hands quietly and submit? Plainly
not. There was a time when Spiritualists would have had no choice but to meekly
endure- not scoffings and revilings merely- but any pains and penalties which
ignorance and bigotry might inflict. Once they were a "feeble folk," and had to suffer
for the sin of weakness, as many men now suffer for the crime of being poor. But times
have changed since then. Year by year Spiritualists have been growing to be a power
in the land - they are now strong enough to protest; and if the protest is not listened to
they will soon be strong enough to fight. Within their ranks are now included men of
the highest culture and the greatest learning ; men of eminence for their scientific
attainments; men whose good sense, and whose honour and probity cannot be
doubted; men whose voice - when once they are constrained to speak out - it will be
impossible to disregard. And they will be expected to speak out; nay, more, not to
speak only, but to unite in one solid phalanx in doing battle for the right.
We are pleased to learn that already many memorials have been very numerously
signed calling upon the Home Secretary to release Mr. Matthews from his
imprisonment without delay. As a matter of fact, so far as we have the means of
judging, the Home Secretary will have no power, as he will have no ground, to grant
the prayer of the memorialists. The prisoner has been convicted according to law, and
has accepted his conviction without notice of appeal; but the memorials will at least
serve the very excellent purpose of a protest against the law itself, and against the
interpretation that has been placed upon it. It is the law, however, that must be
attacked; and that, too, with vigour and persistency, till honest mediums are relieved
from its operation. The whole question, we are glad to see, has been promptly taken in
hand by the British National Association; and we have no doubt that the Association
will do its work wisely and well. Of course we do not know at present what steps it
will be deemed best to adopt; but we have reason to believe that it will take legal
advice on the subject, and shape its course accordingly. To ourselves it seems obvious
that -whatever else may be done - the method of procedure should include an
influential deputation to a leading member of the new ministry, the presentation of
petitions to both Houses of Parliament, and the forwarding of copies of these petitions
to every member of the legislature, to all the judges, and to the chairmen of quarter
sessions throughout the country. And this should be done again and again, if
necessary, till public opinion has been enlightened, and the importunity has been
rewarded by the desired success.
No body of men in the kingdom can do this work so efficiently as the B.N.A.S.,
because there is none which has so much influence at its command. But in the pursuit
of its purpose it must be well sustained. The object cannot be achieved without a
considerable expenditure of money, and friends everywhere should join the
Association at once, and thus increase its power, and replenish its funds. Some
provincial Spiritualists have occasionally questioned the value of a central
205
association like the B.N.A.S.; but they have now a proof of its real worth, and we trust
that they will give abundant evidence of their own sympathy and sincerity by a prompt
and generous assistance.
………………………………………………….
The British National Association of Spiritualists, meeting of council on the 13th
May
1880 under the presidency of Alexander Calder recorded in their proceedings:
THE LAW AS AFFECTING MEDIUMS.
Mr. Dawson Rogers called attention to the recent conviction of a medium at
Keighley, in Yorkshire, and his sentence to three months imprisonment, under a
charge of having used "subtle means or device to deceive and impose" on Her
Majesty's subjects. It was useless, he said, to discuss the question whether the medium
was honestly and conscientiously exercising the gift of clairvoyance, because it was
manifest, under the existing state of the law, and of ignorant prejudice against
Spiritualism, that he would have been equally convicted whether he was honest or
not. Something must be done to remedy such an obvious injustice to conscientious
mediums, and he would therefore move the following resolution:-
That whereas by 5 Geo. IV., cap. 83, sec. 4, it is enacted that every person using
any “subtle means or device, by palmistry or otherwise, to deceive and impose on"
any of Her Majesty's subjects, shall, on conviction, be deemed a rogue and vagabond,
and may be committed to the House of Correction, there to be kept to hard labour for
any time not exceeding three months; and whereas this enactment has been held to be
applicable to Spiritualist mediums without evidence that they have intentionally
resorted to deception and imposture; this Council is strongly of opinion that
immediate steps should be taken to secure to honest and conscientious mediums a
relief from the said penalties, and requests the General Purposes Committee to adopt
such measures as they may deem best calculated for the accomplishment of this
purpose.
Miss HOUGHTON seconded the resolution.
Mr. STAINTON MOSES supported the proposal. While it was extremely desirable
that the Association should in no way, directly or indirectly, commit itself to the
defence of anything that was not perfectly straightforward and bona fide, and so that
it should move with caution, there could be no doubt that it was its bounden duty to
defend mediums from unjust persecution. This it had always been foremost in doing.
Witness its action in Dr. Slade's case. This it would do when ever opportunity offered.
He was the more glad that this resolution had been brought forward because an
American paper, remarkable only for the scurrilous language in which it phrased its
criticisms, and for the frequent absurdity of its suggestions, had lately charged the
Association with a desire to persecute medium s- (Laughter) and had printed some
most abusive articles on the subject. These were beneath notice save by the practical
reply which this resolution afforded. The Association desired at all times to defend
honest mediumship, and would do that the more effectually by declining to support
any medium who was not willing to sit under circumstances that precluded suspicion.
206
The motion was then put and carried unanimously.
Mr. F. O. Matthews was well supported by various Spiritualist societies, well known
speakers and mediums like J.J. Morse: as was published below in Spiritual Notes for
June 1880:
SPIRITUALISM IN THE PROVINCES.
THE most noticeable fact in the events of the past month has been the condemnation
of Mr. F. 0. Matthews to three months' hard labour by the magistrates of the Keighley
Petty Sessions. Mr. Matthews was prosecuted at the instance of Mr. Ireland, a
superintendent of police, for exercising his mediumship as a clairvoyant. That Mr.
Matthews is a clairvoyant of striking powers there is abundant testimony, and that his
mediumship is true and genuine plenty of evidence is forthcoming. Hence it can only
be understood that the convicting justices must either be ignorant of the facts of
clairvoyance, or have ignored their existence.
In either case it is the duty of Spiritualists to move in such cases as these, and
strive to get either all such convictions quashed, or the law so amended that the just
and honest exercise of psychological talents shall be as legitimate as the exercise of
any other "gift" or "genius" of our natures.
It is with feelings of no little pleasure I record the fact that the Newcastle-on-Tyne
Spiritual Evidence Society has issued a petition which has been extensively circulated
throughout the kingdom praying the authorities to remit the remainder pf Mr.
Matthews's sentence. The Newcastle Society has thus earned the gratitude of all
mediums and workers, who have the satisfaction of knowing that the local friends are
neither afraid nor ashamed to stand by those who have served the cause when
persecuting bigotry endeavours to overthrow them. It is another evidence of the value
of the "consolidation of co-operation," as a petition from a representative body is an
evidence that we exist as a power, and demand that our rights shall be respected.
But some of our would-be "men of light and leading" have unwisely attempted to
reflect discourteously upon Mr. Matthews, and by the aid of cheap sentiment and
masked attack not only cast reflections upon him personally but upon all professional
mediums and speakers as well, who are termed "hirelings," "hangers on," &c. Well,
that no mediums means no Spiritualism is pretty evident. Then, of course, no papers,
editors, institutions, associations, or aught else. I Sincerely hope Mr. Matthews may
obtain the remission of the rest of his sentence, and that our people will set on foot an
agitation that will result in the law being so far amended that honest mediums may be
as free to exercise their gifts for pay as are writers, singers, lecturers, and the rest.
J.J. MORSE.
The medium Mr. F.O. Matthews was liberated from Wakefield prison on July 1st
1880, where a grand reception awaited him.
Although we know of petitioning to legalise mediumship being made to parliament
and the then home secretary on behalf of Matthews and other mediums, it was not
207
successful. Indeed not until July 1930, some fifty years later, did a formal deputation,
led by Arthur Conan Doyle, provided ‘progress’ with its initial stages. It was yet
another twenty one years until the amendment of the Vagrancy Act was completed,
giving mediums freedom to work legally.
PJG.
…………………………………………..
[We continue with the letters of J. J. Morse’s Australia / New Zealand trip between
the periods of September 1902 to June 1903. This 5th letter is sent from Dunedin,
New Zealand as published in ‘Light’ March 7th
1903]
LETTERS FROM MR. J. J. MORSE.
V.
SOME REMARKABLE SEANCES.
Since my previous communication I have voyaged 1,400 miles across the Southern
Pacific Ocean, and am now, for the first time, upon New Zealand soil. I reached
Dunedin on January 7th. The local work is in the hands of the Dunedin Psychological
Society, and it is fortunate in being directed by two gentlemen, brothers, the Messrs.
Stables, as secretary and president respectively, both of them exceedingly capable
men. On the 9th the society tendered me a public reception, which was a very
enjoyable and pleasant occasion, nearly all the members of the body being present.
On Sunday, January 11th, I commenced the public lectures, in the handsome Victoria
Hall, which was completely filled. The opening meeting was most successful. Each
meeting was fully reported on the following day by the two papers `The Otago Daily
Times' and `The Evening Star'; indeed, the Press, so far, here has been very
considerate of my work-quite different from the way in which the Cause was treated
thirty years ago. The society has been fortunate in the past in having the assistance of
an excellent trance speaker, a Mr. Rough, and that, combined with the visits of Dr.
Peebles, and Mrs. Brigham lately, has no doubt done much to educate public opinion
in our direction. I remain in this city until the first week in February, then going on to
Christchurch and Wellington, and possibly to New Plymouth, the two latter places
being on the North Island; this city is on the South Island. I have now had the honour
of representing our Cause in the two cities furthest down in the Southern Hemisphere,
for the South Pole is the next point! So far, my impressions of New Zealand are
decidedly agreeable. Dunedin was originally a Scotch settlement, and is still largely
Gaelic as to its inhabitants, and, evidently, the sturdy Scots' character has played an
important and successful part in establishing a sound commercial and social
community. The city is well built, and bears all the outward indications of prosperity.
Now allow me a brief mention of the seances to which I referred in the closing
lines of my previous letter.
Through a mutual friend I was introduced to Mr. T. W. Stanford, a wealthy citizen
of Melbourne, and the brother of the late Servitor Leland Stanford, of California, the
208
millionaire, and founder of the Columbia University in that State. The seances are
held twice weekly, on the evenings of Monday and Friday, in Mr. Stanford's office, in
the centre of the city. The incidents are so remarkable, the mediumship so singular,
that I will simply state the case as I found it, and, while I have my own convictions, I
will leave my readers to form theirs from a simple statement of my own observations.
The medium is a Mr. Charles Bailey, who, Mr. Stanford assures me, has never
been outside Australia, in which country he was born. He is apparently about thirty
years of age, a quite ordinary man, somewhat like a decent mechanic in manner and
appearance. His private conversation does not display any marks of education or
culture. The phenomena occurring in his presence are two-fold, physical and mental.
First let me describe the phenomenal portions of the manifestations. Occasionally
luminous `hands' appear, and these write short messages to various sitters. The
apports include the bringing to the circle of `tablets'-clay and terra cotta-bearing
`Assyrian' inscriptions, figures, and portraits, the inscriptions being in the cuneiform
characters; also Arabic manuscripts, and Egyptian papyri, copies of Greek MSS. of
remote periods, and by ancient copyists; numerous ancient coins, `Assyrian, Arabic,
Egyptian, Roman and Grecian.' There have also been brought `African fetish' articles;
live snakes, and birds, and flowers, and flower-seeds from India'; large bunches of
dripping wet sea-weed from the adjacent bay; and quantities of sand from the shore
and the mines in the interior of Australia. All the articles that I have described I have
seen, for Mr. Stanford possesses an extensive collection obtained at the séances. As to
the genuine nature of the articles there is no question.
Regarding the mental phenomena the controls are remarkable. These include `Dr.
E. Robinson,' who passed away in 1864, and who during his life filled the chair of
Syro Chaldaic literature in the Theological Seminary of New York, and was well
known as the discoverer of what was named, in his honour, `Robinson's Arch,' at
Jerusalem; `Dr. Whitcombe,' a former resident of Melbourne; also the 'Rev. Mr.
White,' of the same city, and `Rev. Professor Julian Woods,' of Adelaide, S. A. There
are also an Italian, Signor Valleti, and a Londoner, of the coster type, calling himself
`Mr. Brooks'; while two Hindoos, `Abdul' and `Selim,' and a Persian, whose name I
do not now recall (with others occasionally), are the controls usually in evidence.
I was able to attend four of the meetings, and also had a private interview with one
of the controls, at his special request-'Dr. Robinson,' who is a most striking
personality. He talks fluently, and in a most cultured fashion, concerning ancient
history; and his familiarity with Assyria, Persia, and Egypt is no superficial chatter,
but rests, to all appearance, upon actual knowledge, and is accompanied with a wealth
of detail most remarkable in itself. Indeed, under the control of these influences the
medium changes into a man of culture, with the manners of a gentleman, and the
inflections of education. The broken English of the `Italian' sounds exactly as it would
if used by such a native, and the peculiarities of the 'Hindoos' are all equally marked
and vivid; while `Mr. Brooks' is just a vulgar cockney, who I found, on questioning
him, was quite familiar with London and its shady side of life. Indeed, he was one of
the old-time bird fanciers of Seven Dials, which he knew quite well, and he had 'done
time,' as he expressed it. In no case was there any mixing of identities, and each
control was at all times perfectly distinct from any other. Two actors also control, 'Mr.
C. Creswick' and `Mr. G. V. Brookes,' but it was not my fortune to hear them.
209
In my possession are two of the `tablets,' one with a portrait upon it, which is said
to be that of `Tiglath Pilesir,' the other, `Nimrod' in the act of slaying an Assyrian bull.
A third `tablet' has been brought for me since I left Melbourne. I also have a sprig cut
from a plant grown in the circle-from a mango seed, I think it was. This plant was
manipulated by 'Abdul,' the `Hindoo' control, whom I heard hold a conversation in
Hindustani with a linguist who was present on the occasion.
Now a few words as to the conditions under which the seances are held and the
phenomena produced. In the first place, all present are there in every case by Mr.
Stanford's sole invitation, and no one pays anything; indeed, money will not under
any circumstances secure admission, while the medium is not permitted to invite
anyone, nor bring any friend or acquaintance with him, under any pretext whatever.
The medium is entirely paid for his attendance by Mr. Stanford. Each evening Mr.
Stanford thoroughly searches Mr. Bailey, as I know from personal observation; so it is
impossible that the articles brought are concealed on the person of the medium. Prior
to the commencement of the sitting Mr. Bailey rarely speaks to anyone present; as a
rule he simply comes in and takes his seat at the table immediately before the
proceedings continence. The apports come in the dark, but the facts of the searching
must be set against the darkness, as well as the nature of the articles which come. The
alternatives are, collusion among the sitters, or with Mr. Stanford. As the medium
does not know who will be present, the first issue can be dismissed; while Mr.
Stanford's position in society, and the fact that he is the sole support of the seances,
disposes of the second suggestion. And, most important, the nature of the apports is
such that they could not be bought anywhere in the Colonies, nor could the `tablets' be
forged therein.Such, briefly put, are the facts as they have come under my own
personal observation. The large number of articles which Mr. Stanford has
accumulated is testimony to either the most remarkable fraud, or to the most
wonderful evidences of spirit power that the annals of mediumship record. My
opinion is that the phenomena are genuine.
During my visits I found the company included many notable people. I met there,
for instance, Ex-Judge Casey, a retired Melbourne judge; Mrs. Millar, president of the
Woman's Suffrage League; Mr. Clement Wragge, the Government astronomer,
besides other professional and commercial risen of standing in the city. The popular
minister, the Rev. Dr. Strong, has also attended, and all testify to the remarkable
character of the mediumship of Mr. Bailey. I dined at the house of a well-known
Melbourne lawyer, and there met at dinner Mr. James Smith, one of the oldest and
ablest journalist litterateurs in the Colonies, who has written on these phenomena, and
he is profoundly convinced of their genuineness. However, I have said enough and
must now leave the matter to the judgment t of my readers.
Dunedin, New Zealand.
January 20th, 1903.
…………………………………………….
For more information on Charles Bailey and apports in Australia: see Psypioneer-
Newsletter Volume 1. No 4. August 2004.
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/Leslie_Price_PP4.pdf
210
How to obtain this Newsletter
The Psypioneer newsletter is at present available, complete with all back issues
on the web site http://www.woodlandway.org and we are greatly indebted to our
Australian friends for hosting and posting this Newsletter. You can obtain it free
and direct by sending an e-mail entitled “Subscribe” to psypioneersub@aol.com or
“Unsubscribe” to discontinue.
To contact Psypioneer please e-mail. psypioneer@aol.com
Paul J. Gaunt
211
