{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/psypioneer.iapsop.com\/psypioneer_v2_n10_oct_2006.pdf","mytitle":"Psypioneer V2 N10 Oct 2006","mylang":"de"}
PSYPIONEER
Founded by Leslie Price Editor Paul J. Gaunt
Volume 2, No 10; October 2006
Available as an Electronic Newsletter
Highlights of this issue:
Mrs. Hayden’s visit to England in 1852-3. 212
Nobility and Folly. 231
Letters from Mr. J.J. Morse. VI 232
How to obtain this Newsletter by email. 234
………………………………………………
MRS. HAYDEN’S VISIT TO ENGLAND IN 1852-3
AND
THE CONVERSION OF
ROBERT OWEN
……………..
A visit by Mr. and Mrs. W.R. Hayden in October 1852 is shown in published
accounts of early Modern Spiritualism in England. Mrs. Hayden introduced the
American system of mediumship to London, the form of communicating with the spirit
world through the calling of the alphabet and rappings; that is spirit telegraphy.
The calling of the alphabet was first introduced at Hydesville by William Duesler,
followed by David Fox to secure the peddler’s name. This process then became
dormant until it was resurrected later that year by Isaac Post. The process being
famously used by the Fox sisters led them to be known as the ‘Rochester Rappers’ (1)
Mr. & Mrs. Hayden were accompanied on their visit to England by her business
agent, an English mesmerist, Mr G.W. Stone, whose interests lay in Electrobiology (2).
He was so impressed with Mrs. Hayden’s mediumship as witnessed in America, that
he brought the Haydens back to England on a professional tour. Stone was to
undertake the management of Mrs. Hayden’s séances which were held at Stone’s
house in Cavendish Square, London.
While Mrs. Hayden was in London, Stone edited, and republished with his own
introduction, Adin Ballou’s book (3) ‘Spirit Manifestations’ published in London and
Dublin, previously published by Bela Marsh: Boston of the same year 1852. (4)
212
Shortly after the Haydens visit another medium arrived in England from America,
Miss. Emma Frances Jay. Emma Jay’s mediumship was on a different level to that of
Maria Hayden and would not have the immediate effect as Hayden’s physical
objective phenomena on the British public. Miss. Jay was a trance medium. Emma
Hardinge Britten in ‘Nineteenth Century Miracles’ published by her husband in 1884
says this about her on pages 137-8:
Miss Emma Frances Jay, a young lady who had quite recently become developed as a
trance medium in America, in fact the first phenomena of this kind that had as yet
appeared upon the public rostrum. Miss Jay’s mediumship consisted of speaking with
extraordinary eloquence on metaphysical subjects. She also concluded her address by
singing; both words and music being improvisations of remarkable beauty and
sweetness.
These exhibitions, although singularly interesting, did not furnish the indisputable
proof of a Spiritual origin for which the sceptics of the time were seeking, the
wonderful improvisations poured forth by this gifted young sybil, might have
convinced any experienced psychologist, that she was controlled by some power far
transcending her normal capacity.
Upon her return to America she married and became Mrs. Bullene, a well known
speaker from the American rostrum.
One of Maria Hayden’s achievements from her visit was the conversion of Robert
Owen. He had called upon Mrs. Hayden only to purchase a book by his friend Adin
Ballou. This was around February 1853. Although there are many references to his
conversion, much of the material printed is snippeted. In fact the whole of Maria
Hayden’s visit is generally poorly represented in Spiritualist reference and general
text books, considering its high impact on the British press and its implications.
Although there were no British Spiritualistic journals then, Spiritualism had made
considerable progress in America. One of the major weekly periodicals ‘Spiritual
Telegraph’ was founded by S.B. Brittan and ran from 1852 until it merged in 1860
into the ‘Herald of Progress’ founded by Andrew Jackson Davis. The publishers of
the ‘Spiritual Telegraph’ Partridge & Brittan felt that preservation of important and
reliable records held in their weekly periodicals should be made into an indexed book
of reference to be published quarterly. The first bound volume edited by Brittan,
contained selections from May to August, 1853. These were entitled ‘The Telegraph
Papers’.
In this 465 page first volume I found two valuable letters sent by Mr. W.R. Hayden to
Samuel Byron Brittan (c1815-1883) reporting on their progress in England; one letter
sent anonymously regarding the Haydens, and possibly the first testimony by Robert
Owen, expressed in a letter to Brittan a few weeks after his first meeting with Mrs.
Hayden in London.
These are printed below in full, in the order as printed in ‘The Telegraph Papers’:
…………………………………………………
213
TELEGRAPH PAPERS. Page 19
THE MANIFESTATIONS IN ENGLAND
AN intelligent gentleman, who was for some time connected with the Boston press,
and whose lady is a spiritual medium, has been in London during the past winter,
with the view of inviting the attention of the English public to the mystical phenomena
so prevalent in this country. We extract a portion of a letter recently received, from
which the reader will discover that a number of eminent persons, some distinguished
for hereditary titles and honors, and others for intellectual powers and acquirements,
are beginning to regard the subject with interest.
ED.
22 QUEEN ANNE STREET, CAVENDISH SQUARE,
LONDON, Feb. 4, 1853.
Dear Sir- I think I promised, before leaving New York, in September last, to write
to you and let you know how we succeeded in England, and I should have done so
long ere this, but for a press of business and perplexities in introducing the Spiritual
phenomena to the people of this country, who I find much more material than
spiritual. Yet there is sufficient good soil to admit of sowing the seed, which I trust
will take root and grow in good time.
In regard to the manifestations, Mrs. H. has been very successful, even more so, if
any thing, than she was at home. Thus far we have had much opposition to contend
against, but have met with a remarkable few failures. The worst was that of two of
Dickens' friends, who paid Mrs. H. a visit a few days after her arrival. They evidently
came with the intention of having every thing wrong, and they nearly succeeded to
their mind. You have probably seen the article in the "Household Words," giving an
account of their visit to the "Rappers, or the Ghost of the Cock-lane Ghost," in which
they say the whole thing has been exploded in the "States.”
We shall try hard to overcome the prejudices of the people, and to awaken an
interest in the subject; already have quite a number of the first families taken the
trouble to investigate the phenomena; I will simply name a few of them: the Earl of
Eglinton and the Countess, Lord and Lady Naars, the Marchioness of Stafford, Sir
Edward Bulwer Lytton, Mrs. Crowe, Miss Anna Blackwell, Dr. Elliottson, Dr.
Ashburner, and many others, who have expressed great satisfaction, and a full belief
in its truth and reality.
Dr. Elliottson is the editor of the Zoist. He, as also Dr. Ashburner, are greatly
interested, and have received extraordinary proofs. But a most distinguished man has
at length consented to investigate, and to give the result of his labors to the world,
without fear or favor. I am not at present at liberty to mention his name. He occupies
a high professional position in Edinburgh; you probably understand who it is. I hope
to be able to write something in a few weeks that will be of interest both to you and
your readers.
Believe me, yours truly,
W. R. H.
214
TELEGRAPH PAPERS Page 91
PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM IN ENGLAND
An intelligent gentleman, who has recently arrived from England, has favored us
with the following interesting account of affairs in that country.
EDITOR SPIRITUAL TELEGRAPH:
ALTHOUGH there is, perhaps, no country in the world where new theories are
received with greater hesitation than in England, or where even truth itself makes
slower progress, owing the sluggish and material character of the people, the results
that have followed the introduction of the phenomena known under the title of
"Spiritual Manifestations" have exceeded the most sanguine expectations that could
have been formed of them. Having been an attentive and interested observer of the
impression made on the English mind, as it passed through the different phases of
incredulity, indignation, and, ultimately, of reluctant conviction, I can the more
readily comply with the request that has been made me, that I should give a correct
and unexaggerated account of the reception which the doctrine of Spiritualism has
met with in English society. When I speak of English society, you must not understand
the phrase as applied to that aggregate of popular prejudices and bigoted opinions
which is reflected by the press. No. I allude to that more elevated and intellectual
class which dares to think and inquire for itself, and which, in reality, gives the tone
to the public mind.
It is among this class that all questions that have an important bearing upon the
interests and happiness of society are thoroughly sifted and examined; and when it
has pronounced its fiat, it is wonderful with what facility the press modifies or
renounces its previously - formed convictions. It is by following, and not leading, as is
erroneously supposed, the sentiments of this class, that the Times has acquired its
enormous influence. It represents the mind of England, while the other journals only
represent sectional interests too unimportant to establish their claim to direct public
opinion.
It was necessary for me to preface my remarks by this explanation, in order that
your readers may understand the silence observed by one portion of the English
press, and the violently aggressive part taken by the other, with respect to the
Spiritual Manifestations. When Mrs. Hayden, to whom the honor of leading what was
considered a forlorn hope, first announced her arrival in England and the object of
her mission, she was assailed by a storm of invective, than which nothing could have
been coarser or more brutal. To the credit of the religious portion of the press, be it
observed, that it took little or no part in this demonstration.
It was confined principally to a few journals that-hoped to make character out of
this chivalrous onslaught upon the reputation and motives of a defenseless woman. As
is usual in such cases, these unmanly attacks produced just the contrary effect to that
which was intended. The very fury of the assault led candid minds to inquire whether
this "puddle in a storm" had not been raised from interested motives. The love of fair
play in some, the spirit of curiosity in others, soon directed the attention of the
educated classes to an investigation of the facts. The result might have been easily
foreseen. The objects which Mr. Dickens, and Mr. Lewes, of the Leader, proposed to
215
themselves, were completely defeated by the excess of their zeal. The house of the
Medium became thronged with visitors, and some of the highest names in England,
both in hereditary and acquired rank, were to be found inscribed in the call-book of
the daughter of an humble American farmer.
And now, before I proceed further, let me say a few words respecting Mrs. Hayden
herself. Young, intelligent, but at the same time simple and candid in her manners, no
one could have been more admirably adapted than this lady for the difficult and
invidious task which she had undertaken. She disarmed suspicion by the unaffected
artlessness of her address, and many who came to amuse themselves at her expense,
were shamed into respect and even cordiality by the patience and good temper which
she displayed. The impression invariably left by an interview with her was, that if, as
Mr. Dickens contended, the phenomena developed by her were attributable to art, she
herself was the most perfect artist, as far as acting went, that had ever presented
herself before the public.
In a work lately published in England by Mr. Henry Spicer, entitled "Sights and
Sounds," and containing the fullest account that has as yet been published of the
Spiritual Manifestations, the author, in alluding to Mrs. Hayden, does not render her
that justice to which she is entitled. His book has, however, been composed under
such an evident anxiety to compromise between his convictions and his fear of
ridicule, that we even pardon him for not having sufficient strength of mind to give
expression to the opinion which he really entertains of her excellence as a Medium.
Had her success been as certain as it is now, when the paragraph to which I refer had
been written, he would not, perhaps, have hesitated to support her more warmly. He
might have staked the convictions of his book on the results produced by her. The
woman who had convinced such men as Brougham, Ashburner, and Owen, deserved
better treatment at his hands. Apropos of Robert Owen. It was the good fortune of the
writer of this article to meet this interesting old man almost daily at the house of the
Medium, during the period when his mind was progressing from absolute unbelief to
the most perfect conviction. The man who had assailed and founded so many systems
could with difficulty be brought to comprehend a but partially-developed theory,
which went to upset all his preconceived notions. His mind was too logical and un-
prejudiced, however, not to admit the force of the evidence that was laid before him.
During the first three sittings he could obtain no satisfactory result, but in the fourth
he was overwhelmed with proofs. He became from that moment a firm believer in the
doctrine of Spiritual consciousness after death.
Although, as I have already stated, the press, with a few exceptions, were afraid to
approach the subject, lest it should affect their circulation, it did not prevent the
members of it individually from investigating it. Robert Chambers, of Edinburgh,
devoted several sittings to the inquiry, and, it is said, obtained some extraordinary
results. The French and German press had also their representatives at the soirees of
Mrs. Hayden, and some original and ingenious speculations were published in the
Paris and Berlin papers on the reports which they forwarded. The subject suits the
mystical tendency of the German mind, and has led to eager inquiry there.
There is a work in preparation on this subject which will exert a good deal of
curiosity. It is from the pen of a Protestant Clergyman and a graduate of Cambridge.
216
This gentleman has been attentively investigating the phenomena, and writes with
settled convictions as to their Spiritual origin.
In the mean time, Media are starting up in all directions. The Marchioness of H.
and Dr. A. have become writing Media; and in a communication received a short time
since from Sir Charles I., he announces that he has succeeded in establishing a
Communication with the Spirit of a deceased friend.
I understand that several other American Media are expected in London. Mr.
Cohen, of Boston, has already started.
Are you aware that during the latter years of the life of a celebrated literary
countess, at whose charming residence, in the neighborhood of London, the present
Emperor of France was in the habit of visiting, circles were occasionally formed at
her evening receptions, for the purpose of investigating certain extraordinary
phenomena of a Spiritual character, which had been developed through the medium
of inanimate substances? Louis Napoleon was an eager attendant at those soirees,
and is now almost the only one that survives of all that took part in them.
……………………………………………………………..
TELEGRAPH PAPERS Page 110
ROBERT OWEN AND SPIRITUALISM
PEACE, CHARITY, LOVE, UNION, AND PROGRESS, TO ALL THE INHABITANTS
OF THE EARTH
A GREAT moral revolution is about to be effected for the human race, and by an
apparent miracle.
Strange and incredible as it will at first appear, communications, most important
and gratifying, have been made to great numbers in America, and to many in this
country, through manifestations by invisible but audible powers, purporting to be
from departed spirits, and to me especially from President Jefferson, Benjamin
Franklin, His Royal Highness the late Duke of Kent, Grace Fletcher, my first and
most enlightened disciple, and many members of my own family, Welsh and Scotch.
No one who knows me will attribute superstition to me, or want of moral courage to
investigate truth, and to follow it wherever it may lead.
I have honestly and fearlessly applied my best faculties to examine the religions,
laws, governments, institutions, and classifications of all nations and peoples, and I
have found them all to be based upon a fundamental principle of error, which
pervades the whole, and which, in consequence, produces in each of these divisions of
society, evil instead of good. I have applied all my powers of mind as honestly and
fearlessly to investigate these new manifestations, said to be made by departed spirits,
from another advanced state of our existence.
217
Until the commencement of this investigation, a few weeks since, I believed that all
things are eternal, but that there is a constant change in combinations and their
results, and that there was no personal or conscious existence after death.
By investigating the history of these manifestations in America, and subsequently,
as will be narrated, through the proceedings of an American medium, by whose
peculiar organization manifestations are obtained, I have been compelled, contrary to
my previous strong convictions, to believe in a future conscious state of life, existing
in a refined material, or what is called a Spiritual state. And that, from the natural
progress of creation, these departed spirits have attained the power to communicate
their feelings and knowledge to us living upon the earth, by various means.
From the communications which have been made to me, through the aid of this
American medium, from Jefferson, Franklin, Grace Fletcher, and the father of our
present sovereign, I am informed that these new manifestations, or revelations, from
the Spiritual, or, more truly, the refined material world, are made for the purpose of
changing the present false, disunited, and miserable state of human existence, for a
true, united, and happy state, to arise from a new universal education, or formation of
character, from birth, to be based on truth, and conducted in accordance with the
established laws of human nature.
A change which, with the concurrence of the existing authorities in Europe and
America, disregarding all old prejudices, may now be easily effected, to the lasting
benefit of all upon earth.
To delay the public announcement of these all-important truths, now that they are
known to me, would be to delay unnecessarily the change from ignorance to
knowledge, from poverty to wealth, from disunion to union, from falsehood to truth,
from deception to honesty, from evil to good, and from general misery to universal
happiness. The means to effect this change in all countries are known.
The means by which the evils enumerated are created have become obvious.
The means by which the good may be secured, can be now peacefully, and with
wise foresight, introduced and gradually extended over the whole world.
The obstacles to be removed to prepare the way for these changes are the errors of
all religions, and the uncharitable feelings which each necessarily creates against the
members of all other religions.
And the error of all existing governments, respecting the fundamental principle
which can alone cultivate and stimulate the natural faculties of man to unity, charity,
truth, love, or real goodness among the human race, from the birth to the death of
each.
These obstacles are to be now removed, not by violence, or abusive language, or in
an unkind spirit, but with patience, forbearance, perseverance, and love for mankind,
regardless of color, clime, country, class, sect, or party, or difference of race and
condition.
218
All are to be made happy, or none can be made to be substantially and
permanently so.
The means by which to effect this, the greatest of all changes in human existence, are,
like all the operations of nature to attain general important results, simple in
principle and easy in practice.
All that is requisite is, to supersede, without violence, the false fundamental
principle on which alone human affairs have been until now constructed and
governed, and the characters of all have been cultivated and formed from birth. And,
in practice, to abandon the evil course of creating inferior and injurious conditions,
now universal throughout all countries, necessarily making those within them inferior
and injurious to themselves and others. And, instead of these evil proceedings, to
commence the practice of creating good and superior conditions only, in which from
birth to place all of the human race. And then, from necessity, all will become good
and superior, and gradually, by this new education, very good and very superior.
Were it not for these new and most extraordinary manifestations, there would arise
a conflict between the evil spirits of democracy and aristocracy, which would deluge
the world with blood, and would create universal violence and slaughter among all
nations. But these manifestations appear to be made at this period to prepare the
world for universal peace, and to infuse into all the spirit of charity, forbearance, and
love.
These new and extraordinary manifestations have not changed my confidence in
the truth of the principles which I have so long advocated, nor my assurance of the
benefits to be derived from their universal application to practice. On the contrary,
the certainty of the immense permanent advantages to be insured by the adoption of
this system by the human race, has been confirmed to me by the spirits of Jefferson,
Benjamin Franklin, the Duke of Kent, and Grace Fletcher.
Those who are wise, and who are not opposed to the universal happiness of
mankind, will mark, learn, and inwardly digest these things. ROBERT OWEN.
London, March 30, 1853.
……………………………
THE NARRATIVE
Many would-be-philosophers, and some who forget their own difficulties in their
first attempts to introduce a knowledge of electricity, magnetism, mesmerism, and
clairvoyance as well as those of others in introducing any new great improvements-
who do not know what has been attained and proved in other countries, and who have
not calmly and perseveringly investigated the facts long since ascertained as
undeniable - will hastily decide that these new manifestations, although apparently
mere extensions of animal magnetism, are cunningly devised deceptions.
Against any such crude and premature conclusions I strongly protest, knowing
how long these same objectors have opposed the introduction of the system which I
have for half a century advocated - a system based solely on self-evident facts, and
219
built up of self-evident deductions from those facts - a system having in view solely
the permanent good of all from birth to death -a system, and the only system,
calculated to compel all from their birth to become gradually as good, wise, and
happy, as their organization, given to them by the Great Creating Power of the
Universe, or God, will admit.
I protest against the conclusions of these would-be-thought wise philosophers,
because I have patiently, with first impressions strongly against the truthfulness of
these manifestations, investigated their history and the proceedings connected with
them in the United States; have read the most authenticated works for and against
them, with much desire to disbelieve those in their favor; and, although against strong
evidence, I long continued to doubt, and thought the whole a delusion (but in many
cases I was obliged to admit it must be an honest delusion). I have been compelled to
come to a very different conclusion.
While in doubt upon this subject, I heard of the media in this country, and was
casually introduced to Mrs. Hayden, an American medium, without having any
intention to ask a question respecting the Spirits; my object being to purchase a book
which Mrs. Hayden had for sale, written by a valued and most truthful friend of mine
in America, Adin Ballou, who has written a plain, practical, common-sense history of
this new revelation to the human race.
While conversing with Mrs. Hayden, and while we were both standing before the
fire, and talking of our mutual friends suddenly raps were heard on a table at some
distance from us, no one being near to it. I was surprised; and as the raps continued
and appeared to indicate a strong desire to attract attention, I asked what was the
meaning of the sounds. Mrs. Hayden said they were spirits anxious to communicate
with some one, and she would inquire who they were. They replied to her, by the
alphabet, that they were friends of mine who were desirous to communicate with me.
Mrs. Hayden then gave me the alphabet and pencil, and I found, according to their
own statements, that the spirits were those of my mother and father. I tested their
truth by various questions, and their answers, all correct, surprised me exceedingly. I
have since had twelve seances, some of long continuance, and during which, with one
exception, I have had prompt and true answers so far as the past and, present, and
very rational replies as to the future, but these last have to be tested by time. The
exception was my own afterward-discovered error.
In mixed societies, with conflicting minds, I have seen very confused answers
given, but I believe, in all these cases, the errors have arisen from the state of mind of
the inquirer.
……………………………………………
Editorial comment on page 187:
ROBERT OWEN AND SPIRITUALISM.-Robert Owen is universally known as the
author, and, for many years, the zealous propagator of a theory of Social Reform.
Whatever of unphilosophical extravagance may have been incorporated with his
views, it must be acknowledged that the productions of his pen have, in general,
manifested a degree of practical common sense, and a power of observation and
deduction, not likely to be imposed upon by any shallow system of fraud or delusive
220
trickery. Until lately, Mr. Owen was a confirmed disbeliever in the immortality of the
soul; but, like hundreds of others of the skeptical class, he has experienced an entire
revolution in his views in consequence of witnessing unmistakable manifestations of
power and intelligence from the Spirits of the departed. The manifesto of his present
convictions and hopes, together with the narrative of the experiences by which he
attained them.
………………………………
Finally, there came a further report from Hayden.
TELEGRAPH PAPERS. Page 367
SPIRITUALISM IN ENGLAND
LONDON, June 10, 1853.
My DEAR BRITTAN:
Accept my warmest thanks for the first number of THE SPIRITUAL TELEGRAPH,
Vol. II., which you were so very kind as to send me. It makes a very beautiful
appearance, and is all that could be desired in every respect, and reflects much credit
upon the taste and enterprise of its publishers. All who have seen it here speak in the
highest terms of praise, both in regard to its contents and general appearance. Ere
long you may look for quite an increase to your subscription list from this side of the
Atlantic.
The Spiritual work has fairly begun here, and is quietly progressing among the
higher classes, although at times since our arrival, the clouds have looked black and
threatening; but in the darkest moments, when the heart was the saddest, a gleam of
sunshine has suddenly burst upon us, and our hope and courage have been renewed,
and we have pressed on with brighter prospects. How true the saying, "That which
was against us to-day, may be for us to-morrow," and we have often found this to be
the case since we came here.
When we first arrived in London, Dickens' Household Words (5) came to the fight
against us, and, in its egotism, it flattered itself that it had entirely demolished the
whole structure, foundation, and all of modern Spiritualism; that its humble
instruments would be compelled at once to fly England; yet here we are hard at work,
and doing better than ever, thanks for its advertisement.
Next came forth the valiant G. H. Lewes,(6) the literary hero of the Leader, who
vainly flatters himself that he is the cleverest man in Great Britain (English clever),
but his attempts to explain the phenomena disagreed with Dickens and Mrs. Oliver's
"Toeology," showing very conclusively that there must be a decided error somewhere.
He vainly endeavored to make the world believe that he had discovered, in a single
hour, what his betters, and far more able men had failed to do after four or five years
of patient and careful investigation. He asserted that he had devised and set a very
cunning trap for the medium, by which he ascertained that "Hamlet's father had
seventeen noses" (wonderful discovery!)-that "Mrs. Hayden was an impostor," and
221
we have no doubt if he had continued his inquiries they would have told him that they
were in the habit of answering a "fool according to his folly." However, all that is left
in that remarkable trap is the remains of Mr. G. H. Lewes. For a brief period after his
expose there was great rejoicing in the ranks of the skeptics, and their giant champion
was greatly extolled; but, in the very face and eyes of all this, the great work went
steadily on increasing as though Mr. G. H. Lewes had never been. At this he was
much amazed, and wondered exceedingly that people could not see with his eyes, or
as he did. For a little time after this there was a calm upon the troubled sea-short,
however, in its duration, and, to transpose the words of the great poet, "After every-
calm comes a tempest;" for there were mighty influences at work gathering up all
their forces to crush, with one tremendous blow, the "RAPPERS." At last the storm
came, and burst upon us in all its relentless fury, and the Zoist poured forth its
volumes of fire and smoke (more smoke than any thing else).
The hero of a thousand hard-fought battles in the cause of mesmerism and
materialism - the redoubtable Dr. John Elliotson, whose organ of self-esteem, to use
the words of a learned phrenologist, is twice seven, or larger than any other
professional man in England -this person, evidently piqued that he had not been the
first called upon in this country to investigate the phenomena, determined to be
revenged for the fancied slight. Accordingly, Mrs. Hayden received an invitation to
give a seance, for a party of eight persons, at the house of a gentleman in the vicinity
of Hyde Park. Not one of the persons was she acquainted with, or had ever seen
before. Among the rest was Dr. Elliotson, incog., and who remained so until near the
close of the sitting, when, by an inadvertency, one member of the party addressed him
by name. At the close of the seance, which was one of the most successful Mrs.
Hayden has ever given in this country, the doctor expressed himself highly gratified
and fully convinced of the phenomena, and the entire good faith of the medium. At
parting, Mrs. Hayden politely invited him to call on her at her residence, and
investigate still further, of which courtesy he availed himself, and also brought with
him a friend, and so the matter rested until the appearance of the April number of the
Zoist, in which she received, as a return for her kindness, the most outrageous abuse
and falsehood.
Again were the skeptics in ecstasies, and, raising high their voices, they shouted
with exceeding great joy. Several of the weekly journals copied the article. Among the
rest the London Examiner, endorsing it with remarks of its own. Not one of the papers
that did so would have considered the authority of the Zoist worth a single farthing on
any other subject than the "Rappings." The article referred to was illustrated with
woodcuts, showing how the thing might be done, or was done, and wound up by
stigmatizing the whole thing as a transparent humbug. Many of the friends of
Elliotson are exceedingly vexed at the foolish and absurd course which he has
pursued, both in regard to the subject and to Mrs. Hayden, justly fearing that it will
injure the usefulness of the Zoist in the cause of mesmerism.
At the present time the opposition seems a little paralyzed, and the skeptics are
anxiously looking round for another champion to fight their battles with more
success. The table-movings, which are now of daily occurrence in almost every family
in Europe, has confounded the unbelievers for a time.
222
I presume that, long before this, you have read Robert Owen's manifesto in regard
to the Spiritual manifestations. He is one of Nature's noblemen, who, when once
convinced of a truth, fears not to speak out his convictions to the world, heedless alike
of their opinion, and what they may say of him. It is, indeed, a pity that there were not
many more such men.
Not least among the good friends of the cause is Dr. John Ashburner, a very talented
and scientific man, translator of Baron Von Reichenbach's work, and author of the
notes to the same. He takes the ground that the manifestations which are classed
under the heads of rapping, writing, etc., are produced by a Spiritual agency. Dr.
Ashburner has a large circle of influential friends to whom he has endeared himself
by his universal kindness, great knowledge, and goodness of heart. It is well known
that for a long time he has contributed to the columns of the Zoist, and, in fact, has
been its life; but, his large, expansive, and liberal views were too much so for its
present narrow-minded conductor, and so he has withdrawn from it altogether.
The Rev. Charles Beecher's pamphlet on Spirit-manifestations has reached here.
From a hasty perusal of its contents I am inclined to say to him, as was said to Paul,
"Much learning hath made thee mad." All that I have conversed with, who have read
it, pronounce it a very insipid affair, as they were prepared to look for something of a
higher order from his pen, but it is an undeniable fact, that all who have written
against the Spiritual phenomena, however talented, have utterly failed to make out
even a plausible argument; in fact, not one of the writers of any note who have done
so, but would be quite ashamed to acknowledge their articles, if written half as
stupidly on any other subject.
Do you possess any knowledge in regard to a man who styles himself the Rev. H.
Mattison, and who professes to be the author of a slanderous book on what are
denominated the Spiritualists of the present day, entitled, "Spirit Rappings
Unvailed?" Having been shown a copy of his libelous trash and bombast, I thought I
would just ask the question for information, never having heard of the great gun
before.
He professes to be a Methodist clergyman, and I should judge him to be so from
his insane rantings. I observe that you come in for a pretty liberal share of his abuse,
and also the Rev. Adin Ballou, a man whose old shoes he is not worthy to wear - a
man who is universally respected for his goodness and many virtues. However, I do
not think you have any cause to fear being annihilated by a million of such fanatics.
He plainly shows his willful ignorance of facts by denying the existence of the whole
phenomenon, and his charity by denominating all the mediums as vile impostors, and
the believers as dupes and cheats. In a note to his book he offers five hundred dollars
to see a table moved without artificial or known agency. Now, if he will only step this
way we will guarantee to introduce him to any number of as respectable families as
any that belong to his Church (that is, if they do not at once object to making such a
questionable acquaintance), where he can see the tables move to his heart's content,
in the way he professes to desire.
It is only necessary to make allusion to a few passages in his book to show the
inconsistency and hypocrisy of this individual. He calls loudly on all to avoid ghost
papers and books as they would the "wrath to come." Yet he publishes a book partly
223
made up from extracts from these same ghost books and papers, as he is pleased to
term them, and a compilation of all the libels against the Spiritualists that have ever
appeared in print; and, what is far worse, and not to be found in any of the
publications complained of, a number of revolting wood-cuts of a fanciful devil, with
huge head, horns, tail, and a cloven foot, with which the sentinels of the Church have
been in the habit for ages past of frightening silly old women, weak-minded men, and
little children into a belief of their particular creed. But this scarecrow is getting to be
altogether too old, and wont answer the purpose much longer, for the people are
getting their eyes open to the light of truth and reason.
In his wailings about the rappings making people insane, he probably forgets the
thousands who have been driven mad through the rantings of such as he is; for it is a
well-known and established fact, that religion, as it is called, has been the cause of
more insanity than any one other cause; and in the United States, the clergymen of no
denomination have done so large a share of the work as the Methodists. To prove this
assertion, it is only necessary to visit a Methodist camp meeting or church, during
what is termed one of their revivals, and witness the mad antics and frightful ravings
of this class of religionists.
How will the skeptics reconcile the two above-mentioned books. For a few weeks
past they have been founding their salvation on Rogers' Book, but that will not last
them long. The mediums are daily increasing here, and there are several very good
ones in the families of some of the nobility, but I am not at liberty at present to
mention names. I will endeavor to write you a more interesting letter soon, until
which time, believe me, as ever.
Yours, etc.,
W. R. H.
…………………………………………..
William Hayden’s first letter to Samuel Britten does show the earlier interests of some
well known people that I have not previously seen associated with Maria Hayden, for
example, Edward Bulwer Lytton and Miss. Anna Blackwell. Bulwer Lytton (1803-
1873) a novelist, playwright and politician who coined a number of popular phrases
for example: “The pen is mightier than the sword.” His private interest in psychical
phenomena is usually shown in his associations and friendship with D.D. Home two
years later; this is what Samuel B. Britten wrote in the Telegraph Papers on page 197:
Sir Edward's conversion to Spiritualism has been rumored for months past, and only
a day or two since the London correspondent of the N. York Times, announced it as a
settled fact. A writer in one of the British Reviews, says Bulwer has been for a long
time engaged in writing a book in which his Spiritual ideas will be set forth. We have
refrained from comment upon this intelligence, until doubt should be set at rest. The
conversion of the distinguished novelist is not remarkable to those who have studied
the deep veins of his utterance in "Zanoni,"(7) and other of his popular works. It is,
however, remarkable to those who can by no means be made to feel that there is any
value in a persecuted Spiritual faith, equal to the social sacrifice such a man as
Bulwer must make, to enjoy that faith, openly and undisguisedly.
224
These must have been difficult times for public figures like Lytton, who was
Conservative M.P., for Hertfordshire, (1852-1866). This New York weekly
newspaper reported again on page 197:
ANOTHER CONVERT.-We may laugh as much as we please at what we fancy to be
absurdity of the new doctrines of "Spiritual Manifestations," but there is a sufficient
array of intelligence and learning on that side of the question, to make us pause and
examine before we become too confident. We do not believe in it, but almost every day
we hear of converts whose reputation, as men of knowledge and genius, has made
their names familiar to us. The last distinguished conversion we have seen recorded,
is that of Sir EDWARD BULWER LYTTON, the novelist. Niagara Democrat.
Anna Blackwell (1816-1900) was a journalist and translator, who wrote weekly
columns for numerous newspapers under the pseudonym “Fidelitas”. In 1869
Blackwell gave evidence to the committee of the London Dialectical Society, (Report
on spiritualism), also submitting a paper explaining ‘Spiritual Phenomena’ dated July
7th
1870. Her work also includes the translation of Allan Kardec’s., ‘The spirits’
book’ (1875) and ‘The mediums book’ (1876).
In Mr. Hayden’s first letter it seems asserted that Dr. John Elliotson (1791-1868)
accepted the ‘spirits’ hypothesis e.g., Dr. Elliottson, Dr. Ashburner, and many others,
who have expressed great satisfaction, and a full belief in its truth and reality. In
Hayden’s second letter we note that this assertion was premature of Elliotson’s views,
(note the different spelling of the name). The skeptical article referred to by William
Hayden in Zoist (8) was ‘The Departed Spirits’ attributing everything to Mrs. Hayden.
Dr. Elliotson’s views changed in favour of Spiritualism after his experiences with
D.D. Home.
I conclude with an article by Dr. John Ashburner taken again from the Telegraph
Papers of his experiences with Mrs. Hayden:
TELEGRAPH PAPERS Page 388
DR. ASHBURNER AND SPIRITUALISM
The following article from Dr. Ashburner recently appeared in an English journal,
and has been republished by the Tribune and other papers in this country. We are
happy to inform our readers that Dr. A. will, in future, correspond with the
TELEGRAPH, and keep them informed respecting the progress of the cause in
Europe.
………………….
I HAD the misfortune to lose my father fifty-five years ago. Although I was but a
child, I have a vivid remembrance of him. By the natives of Bombay he was more than
respected. He was venerated for his high talents and for his great goodness. Is it
nothing to feel that such an intelligence is able to make his ideas clear to his son? But
you will ask, "What proof have you of the identities of these persons?" This brings me
to narrate to you the events of the first evening I spent with the spirits in the presence
of Mrs. Hayden.
225
I had always regarded the class of phenomena relating to ghosts and spirits as
matter too occult for the present state of our knowledge. I had not facts enough for
any hypothesis but that which engaged for them a place among optical phantoms,
connected in some way with the poetical creations of our organs of ideality and
wonder, and my hope and expectations always pointed to the direction of phrenology
for the solution of all the difficulties connected with the subject. As to the rappings, I
had witnessed enough to be aware that those who were not deceiving others were
deceiving themselves; and there really exist on our planet a number of persons who
are subject to the double failing of character. Having been invited by a friend to his
house in Manchester Square, in order to witness the Spirit-manifestations in the
presence of Mrs. Hayden, my good friend can testify that I went expecting to witness
the same class of transparent absurdities I had previously witnessed with other
persons described to me as media.
I went in any but a credulous frame of mind; and having, while a gentleman was
receiving a long communication from his wife, whom he had lost under melancholy
circumstances of childbed some years ago, watched Mrs. Hayden most attentively and
with the severest scrutiny, and having finally satisfied himself that the raps were not
produced by her, for the indicated letters of the alphabet, which, written down in
succession, constituted words, forming a deeply interesting letter, couched in tender
and touching terms, respecting the boy to which that eloquent mother had given birth
when she departed from this world. If Mrs. Hayden could have had any share in the
production of that charming and elegant epistle, she must be a most marvelous
woman, for during a good part of the time that the raps were indicating to the
gentleman the letters of the communication, I was purposely engaging her in
conversation. The gentleman would not himself point to the letters of the alphabet,
lest his mind should in any way interfere with the result; and therefore he requested
the lady of the house to point to the letters for him, while her husband, seated at
another part of the table, wrote down each letter indicated by the raps on a piece of
paper.
I was now kindly requested to take my turn at the table, and having successively
placed myself in various chairs, in order that I might narrowly watch Mrs. Hayden in
all her proceedings, I at last seated myself, relatively to her, in such a position as to
feel convinced that I could not be deceived; and, in fact, I was at last obliged to
conclude that it was weakness or folly to suspect her of any fraud or trickery.
There are some people who think themselves uncommonly clever and astute when
they suspect their neighbors of fraud and delinquency. As for Mrs. Hayden, I have so
strong a conviction of her perfect honesty, that I marvel at any one who could
deliberately accuse her of fraud.
In order to obtain an experience of the phenomena in the fairest manner, I asked
Mrs. Hayden to inform me whether it was requisite to think of one particular spirit
with whom I wished to converse. "Yes." “Well, I am now thinking of one." It was the
spirit of my father whom I wished to enlighten me. No raps on the table. I had
anticipated an immediate reply, but there was for a while none.
Mrs. Hayden asked if there was "any spirit who knows Dr. Ashburner?”
226
Immediately, close to my elbow, on the table, there were two distinct and separate
successions of gentle rapping sounds.
The next question was, "Was the spirit he wished to converse with present?”
“No."
"Was there any one present who would endeavor to bring it?"
"Yes."
"Are the spirits who rap near Dr. Ashburner friends of whom he is thinking?"
“No. "
"Will they give their names?"
"Yes."
These replies were signified by rappings to questions put, some audibly, some
mentally. Mrs. Hayden suggested that I should take up the alphabet, which was
printed on a card. I took the card into my hand, and pointed at each individual letter
with the end of a porcupine quill -my friend, Mr. Hoyland, the gentleman of the house,
kindly undertaking to put down on paper for me the letters distinguished by the raps.
When I arrived at a letter which the spirit desired to indicate, a rapping took place;
but at all the other letters there was a complete silence. In this manner I obtained the
letters successively, Ann Hurry, the name of one of the most beautiful and
accomplished, as well as pious and excellent, persons I had ever known. I had not
seen her since 1812. She married two years after, and died in 1815. My father, and
most of the members of my family, had been on terms of the greatest intimacy with
several branches of the Hurry family, and I had, in youth and childhood, known Ann
and her cousins as companions and playfellows. By the aid of the telegraphic signals
I have endeavored to describe, I conversed for some time with the charming
companion of my early years, and learned very interesting particulars relating to her
happy abode in the Spirit-world.
My curiosity had been excited by the different sounds produced by rappings that I
heard close to those made by my friend Ann. I asked for the name of the spirit that
they represented. The name which came out by the letters indicated on the alphabet
was Elizabeth Maurice, another companion of the childhood of myself and my brother
and sister- another almost angelic being while on earth, but now, with her cousin
Ann, an inhabitant of the third sphere in Paradise. The authoress of the "Invalid's
Book," and some other works testifying to a pure, gentle, and refined taste, conversed
with me a while; and at last a louder and more decided signal was made to me from
the middle of the table. The name I obtained by the telegraphic raps was that of my
father. I asked him to communicate to me the date on which he quitted this world for
the spirit-home, and the raps indicated "7th September, 1798." I asked where the
event took place, and I obtained the answer, "At Bombay." I asked his age at the time,
with many other questions, the replies to which were all quite correct. I kept up
227
mentally a long conversation with him on subjects deeply interesting, and it was pro-
ductive of a communication from him, which I subjoin:
My dear Son-I am delighted to have this privilege of communicating with you,
hoping to dispel some of those wrong impressions which now hover around you in
regard to this Spiritual being. Allow a spirit who inhabits one of the higher circles to
decide for you on a most important subject, to try to remove from your mind the
doubts which perplex you, and to establish in their stead a firm faith in the Creator of
heaven and earth. It is he who permits us to make these manifestations, through
certain constituted persons, in order to impress mankind with the fact that the spirit
shall live in a future state, in a more bright and blissful home. What proof can I give
you of the truth of this? You have only to name it, and it shall be granted to you from
your father, who has ever watched over you with the care of an angel. Do not doubt
what I now say. Your affectionate father,
WILLIAM ASHBURNER.
I am giving you a short narrative of the first part of my course of experience of the
Spirit Manifestations. It is important not to be too diffuse. I am desirous of showing
that if the subject be investigated in a calm and bold state of mind, there is no danger
of the bad tendencies which have been so fiercely deprecated. I may not be able to
prove to you, and to such as yourself, that there is a sufficient amount of facts to
satisfy you of the existence of intelligences absent from the immediate sphere of our
own cognizances, but I have at all events been able to adduce to you a number of
curious facts; and if these, and more such, be tied together in bundles, so placed as to
effect the phrenological organs of a vast number of brains with the attractive force of
agreeable conviction, many of the ideas advocated by the Reasoner will have a
chance of being displaced and forced into the category of negative existence. To take
up the impossibility of future existence is to deny that we are beings of limited
capacities, and to arrogate to ourselves the power of finality. No weakness is so
ridiculous as that of fancying that we are arbiters of events; that our will, exercised
by organs that soon shall rot, is to determine the future fate of a holy truth. How
ardently does the bigot fancy he is right! Sincerity may be his merit, if ignorance be
the cause of pardon for a foolish sincerity. A new truth, a new event, which,
established into a fact, is a new light, makes the antecedent idea pale, and it vanishes
before the force of new conviction. I can not express to you the influence on my mind,
produced by the facts rapped out by alphabetical signals, that my spirit-friends, Ann
and Elizabeth, knew of their cousins Hannah and Isabella having called a few days
before at my house, at twelve o'clock, and that they knew I was going from Mr.
Hoyland's house to No. 17 Palace Gardens, Kensington. They knew the persons I
should see there; and on being asked if they were acquainted with any other persons
residing in Palace Gardens, Ann replied to me that her cousin, Henry Goodeve, lived
at No. 2 - a house he had not long before purchased.
If these be not facts demonstrative of- a future existence, in which friends of former
days are now cognizant of the events occurring here, I do not know what will be
sufficient to force your mind to a conviction. But these are only a small part of the
numerous proofs I have had of the identity of persons with whom I had been
acquainted years ago. I have, in subsequent seances, had many opportunities of
holding intercourse with a score of other persons now in the upper magnetic regions
of space surrounding this earth- intelligences, some of whom were friends here, and
228
some of whom were individuals of whom I had been desired to learn facts that turned
out to be marvelously true.
Had I been inclined, I could have made an equally absurd affair of this serious
inquiry, as some have succeeded in doing. My taste does not lean in that direction.
When I am convinced that I have a good grip of a bold and sacred truth, it is not an
easy matter to shake me from it. 1 have tested the fact of the Spiritual Manifestations
most minutely and carefully, and I grieve for those who have concluded against it
from a touchy disposition not to accept a truth simply because it does not originate
from self, or on account of any other weak and personal consideration. It is easy to go
to simpletons and say, Your neighbor is a credulous fool, and the simpletons believe
it; because, perhaps, they never saw a mesmerized somnambule, under the influence
of a magnetic impulse, from the finger, on the organ of self-esteem, obliged to utter
the same class of words. You, in your article on "Those Rapping Spirits," were
influenced to trot in a groove on the point of dignity. Some infallible judges of dignity
there are who can not perceive in mankind any other high qualities but those of
cunning and acquisitiveness. Man is a strange compound, and to the philosopher it is
a curious subject of reflection how very trifling in themselves are the motives which
make the wisest rush into the most foolish and illiberal courses. It is unnecessary,
after the notices of the Spirit Manifestations in subsequent numbers of your
periodical, to dilate on the deficiencies of philosophical taste that have characterized
some of the would-be-considered investigators of the subject. I may say that when I
have been impelled by the lower feelings of our nature to feel desirous of attacking
them, it has happened invariably of late that I have had affectionate warnings from
the Spheres not to be guilty of the error of hurting unnecessarily the feelings of my
friends. You will acknowledge that if the tendencies of Spiritualism are to make men
more tender toward the feelings of their neighbors, and more mindful of the
obligations they owe to kindness and friendship, those tendencies can not be very
dangerous, or evil, or pernicious.
With every good wish, I remain, my dear Mr. Holyoake,
Yours, truly, JOHN ASHBURNER.
No. 40 YORK PLACE, May 20, 1853.
……………………………………………
1) What is known of the Hydesville peddler? Psypioneer Volume 1 No 9 January
2005. See:
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/Leslie_Price_PP9.pdf
2) Electrobiology: A mode of inducing hypnotism by the subject looking steadily at
metallic discs. This would have been in some respects breaking away from the
traditional mesmeric procedures. The subject would need to concentrate and was
given verbal suggestion. Stone would have been an early demonstrator of this system
that arrived in Britain in 1851-2 from America. See: ‘A History of Hypnotism’ by
Alan Gauld. Cambridge University Press 1992, ISBN 0-521-30675-2. See page 231
Electrobiology and related matters.
229
3) The full title of Adin Ballou’s book is: ‘An Exposition of Views Respecting the
Principle Facts, Causes and Peculiarities Involved in Spirit Manifestations’, there is a
reprint available at http://www.elibron.com at $15.99. Adin Ballou, (Universalist
minister), was an early convert to the propagation of Christian Spiritualism through
his Hopedale community, Massachusetts. See Adin Ballou article by Peter Hughes:
http://www.uua.org/uuhs/duub/articles/adinballou.html See also: Spiritualism, an article by
John Buescher. http://www.uua.org/uuhs/duub/articles/spiritualism.html
A fine book covering this period and growth of early Spiritualism, and its close
associations in its history in the early converts of ‘Universalist Ministers’ like Adin
Ballou, Samuel B. Brittan, James Peebles is ‘The Other Side of Salvation’ by John B.
Buescher. Skinner House Books, Boston ISBN 1-55896-448-7.
4) Psypioneer has republished the G.W. Stone introduction together with the
séance costs and ‘Rules to be observed at the Séances’ while sitting with Mrs.
Hayden: “Spiritualism reaches London”, Psypioneer Volume 1 No 11 March
2005. See: http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/Leslie_Price_PP11.pdf
5) Household Worlds was a weekly journal, established by Charles Dickens
(1812-1870) this ran into 19 volumes and was in publication between 1850-59.
See: http://www.victorianweb.org/periodicals/hw.html
6) George Henry Lewes (1817-78) with Thornton Leigh Hunt founded ‘The
Leader’ in 1850 a weekly left-wing newspaper which continued until 1854,
Lewes a literary critic and author did participate in some experiments in
‘Clairvoyance’ through mesmerism prior to Mrs. Hayden’s visit and was
serialised in ‘The Leader’:
http://www.deadline.demon.co.uk/wilkie/etext/magnetictext.htm There is a
letter from Lewes in the correspondence section of the Report on Spiritualism
of the London Dialectical Society dated December 21st 1869.
7) ‘Zanoni’ first published in 1842 was an occult story of love and Rosicrucians;
A free download of the book is available:
http://www.gutenberg.org/etext/2664
8) The Zoist founded by Elliotson in 1843 which was subtitled: A Journal of
Cerebral Physiology and Mesmerism, and their Applications to Human
Welfare. This journal was considered the most important single source of
information about British mesmerism of its time. The journal was jointly edited
by Dr. John Elliotson and Dr. W.C. Engledue (1813-1858) and continued until 1856
PJG
………………………………………………..
230
NOBILITY AND FOLLY
In the study of the pioneers, the publication of a book with significant new data is a
rare pleasure. But this was the case with John Buescher’s 2004 study” The Other Side
of Salvation” which explored the considerable Unitarian/Universalist role in the early
days of Modern Spiritualism. Dr Buescher had already placed us all greatly in his debt
with www.spirithistory.com, an unequalled on line resource about American
Spiritualism.
Now John Buescher has produced an outstanding biography of one of those pioneers
who featured briefly in his earlier work. “The Remarkable Life of John Murray Spear:
Agitator for the Spirit Land “University of Notre Dame Press, 2006) has an
importance beyond its accuracy, readability and use of rare sources. (Dr Buescher’s
books are available in the UK through Amazon.)
Though Spear (1804-1887).often appears in the literature of early Spiritualism, he is
little known today. The most convenient short account is Dr Buescher’s own
contribution to the invaluable on line Dictionary of Unitarian and Universalist
Biography at http://www.uua.org/uuhs/duub/articles/johnmurrayspear.html. This
dictionary entry also gives a bibliographical note.(In the full length biography, there
are 56 pages of notes, so it is well-referenced indeed, but unfortunately there is no
bibliography.)
Let us recall why Spear is important. On the one hand he embodied the noble
reformist impulse, often found in Spiritualist pioneers, which led many philanthropists
to associate themselves with the Movement - though some left after a time. Spear was
a campaigner for such causes as the abolition of slavery, the ending of capital
punishment, and the rights of women. On the other hand, he was the medium for spirit
communications which sent his colleagues on wild goose chases for buried treasure,
the design of Heath Robinson machines, secret societies that dissolved in scandal, and
Free Love.
Anyone interested in the work of Emma Hardinge Britten should study this
biography, because she regarded him as a leading spokesperson for the Free Love
agitation, which made such a big contribution to the collapse of American
Spiritualism.
Despite persistent poverty, Spear and his second wife made several visits to England.
These are well documented in Dr Buescher’s biography, the couple were befriended
by Georgiana Houghton, the spirit painter and for a time moved in the same circles as
the Howitts, Garth Wilkinson and Alfred Russel Wallace. In 1869, the Spears set up a
short lived Spirit Institute in London which sold books. In general, however, Spear
was not seriously regarded in the Movement in England. Too many of his schemes
had already come to naught.
Like John Wesley, John Spear had a brother Charles (1803-63) who also served for a
time as a Universalist minister. Charles devoted his life to penal reform, and features
often in this book. (Dr Buescher summarised his work at
http://www.uua.org/uuhs/duub/articles/charlesspear.html.) The work of Charles was
damaged by association with his brother John, who had so prodigally destroyed his
231
own reputation. The life of John Murray Spear is a cautionary tale, important to all
students of mediumship, and showing what happens when the spirits are inadequately
tested.
L.P
………………………………………………….
[We continue with the letters of J. J. Morse’s Australia / New Zealand trip
between the periods of September 1902 to June 1903. This 6th letter is sent from
Wellington, New Zealand as published in ‘Light’ May 16th
1903]
LETTERS FROM J.J. MORSE
VI
Further acquaintance with New Zealand serves to increase the first favourable
impressions of the country. Politically and socially it is without doubt one of the most,
if not the most, progressive of the British Colonies. The climate is agreeable; in the
southern portion it is somewhat similar to the North of England, while the mid and
northern portions of the islands are temperate and sub-tropical. But before entering
into a statement of the material conditions which prevail, let me deal with those
matters more nearly pertaining to my mission in the Southern seas.
My last letter was sent from Dunedin, on the South Island, and a very good city,
too. It was originally intended that my labours should cover only four weeks, but the
work was so successful that the time was, at the desire of the friends, extended to six
weeks. Alike on Sundays and week nights the audiences were uniformly excellent,
and the two local daily papers published long reports of the meetings. The lectures
given by 'Tien' stirred up considerable interest, and awoke a theological Rip Van
Winkle from a twenty-four years' sleep! That particular individual is one Matthew M.
Green, who calls himself a 'Christian minister,' and is the head of a small sect, 'The
Disciples of Christ.' He was a member of the House of Representatives, for one term,
but was hopelessly beaten when offering himself for a second election. He is the man
who 'debated' with Thomas Walker, in Melbourne, in about 1876, and who lectured
against Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, when she was in Dunedin, in 1879, in which
year he also gave a course of lectures against Spiritualism, and the title he used, 'The
Devil's Sword Blunted,' will afford a fair idea of his calibre. He attended one of our
Sunday night meetings, at which he behaved most offensively, and denounced
Spiritualism as guilty of all the most dreadful things possible! He challenged me to
debate with him, but, acting on the advice of the officers of the society, I took no
notice, for he is known as a man who runs 'amok' at all creeds except his own.
The curious part of his challenge was that he did not specifically prefer it until he
knew I was about to leave the city. He is now re-delivering his `Devil's Sword
Blunted ' lectures, and rehashing his stale insinuations, under the amiable delusion
that our people dare not meet him. He will presently, I expect, be undeceived on that
point, for I have just completed a pamphlet traversing his grounds, and dealing with
his charges against Spiritualism and its teachings. It is likely that the Dunedin
232
Psychological Society will issue it, as I have given them the rights and the MS. free of
cost. When it appears a copy shall reach you in due course.
My stay in Dunedin was very enjoyable, and the local friends did all in their power
to promote my comfort and pleasure, in which they thoroughly succeeded. Mr. J. W.
Stables, the hon. secretary, drove me out to see all of the beautiful harbour and
surrounding country that was possible, the members invited me to their homes, and
my Masonic brethren extended many courtesies to me. Mr. A. W. Stables, the
president, was equally kind, and on my departure he and his wife joined in presenting
me with a handsome travelling rug made in Dunedin, from wool grown and worked in
the Otago district, which is celebrated for its wools. I also saw the beautiful Taieri
plains, at Mosgiel, which is one of the finest agricultural areas in the world, and where
much wool is raised. My labours ended in Dunedin on Sunday, February 15th, and
two days afterwards my pleasant stay terminated.
Sailing on the ss. `Mararoa' on February 17th, I reached Christchurch the next
morning, spending the day with the local friends, one of whom, Mr. Edmonds, drove
me in his carriage to see all the sights of the city and district. In the afternoon several
of the leading Spiritualists met me, and a pleasant time was spent with them, the
'controls' giving them a few words. Our work is not in a very flourishing condition,
though a small meeting is held on Sunday nights, with from forty to sixty present.
Owing to the state of the society's finances it was not able to arrange with Mr. Terry
for my services. In the evening the steamer again sailed, and at eight the next morning
she moored at the wharf and I set foot in Wellington for the first time.
This city is the capital and the seat of Government for New Zealand. It is situated
at the head of a truly splendid harbour, in which the entire British fleet could safely
anchor with room to spare! So far I have visited the Parliament Houses, and the
Government printing office. The first is a fine building; the Chambers are nicely
fitted, and the arrangements for the convenience and comfort of the members are
excellent. There is a splendid library, of which I have been made free. The printing
office is also an extensive affair, and employs several thousands of operatives. My
visit to this was due to the courtesy of Captain Hennah, brother-in-law to the Right
Hon. H. J. Seddon, the Premier. Mrs. Hennah attends our meetings, as does Mr. J. W.
Poynton, the public Trustee, and other public men also. Other Government officials
and institutions I am yet to see.
Our meetings are held in `the New Century Hall,' which has been built and is
owned by `The Wellington Association of Spiritualists' (registered). It is a very
prettily decorated and well-appointed building, seating three hundred people. It is
lighted by electricity, and in at good part of the city. Since the hall was built it, as a
property, has trebled in value '. On Sunday nights my audiences have filled it, and as
an admission fee of one shilling is charged, that fact can testify to the success of my
visit. Indeed, my stay has again here been extended from four to six weeks. I have
meetings on Wednesday nights, to which an admission fee of sixpence is charged, and
we have an audience of from one hundred to one hundred and fifty. The leading
speaker here has been Mrs. Harris, who is most pleasing in manner, interesting as a
speaker, and greatly beloved by all who know her. Some day she anticipates visiting
the United States and Great Britain, where, without doubt, she would make hosts of
friends.
233
During my stay I am visiting Levin, Otaki, and Masterton, all pretty towns in
picturesque localities, so I shall see some of the country, the bush, and, possibly, meet
some of the natives, the Maories, who are very mediumistic, I am told. My departure
on my return to Melbourne is fixed for April 3rd, and I expect to rejoin my family a
week later. Miss Morse has been lecturing in Melbourne since January 11th, to large
audiences, and, as Mr. Terry informs me, with gratifying success. It is likely she will
revisit New Zealand before leaving Australasia, as Dunedin wishes her to go there,
and the friends here desire her to pay there a return visit. Both Mrs. and Miss Morse
are well, but they have found the excessive heat of Melbourne very trying, for the
thermometer during the past two months has frequently stood at 164.1, which is a
trying heat indeed, when lasting a week at a time.
I must leave over for another letter my impressions of New Zealand, and a fuller
account of the work being done here; meanwhile I conclude with greetings to all
friends at home, where, in due course, we all hope to meet them once again.
Wellington, New Zealand.
March 12th, 1903.
………………………………………………………………….
How to obtain this Newsletter
The Psypioneer newsletter is at present available, complete with all back issues
on the web site http://www.woodlandway.org and we are greatly indebted to our
Australian friends for hosting and posting this Newsletter. You can obtain it free
and direct by sending an e-mail entitled “Subscribe” to psypioneersub@aol.com
or “Unsubscribe” to discontinue.
To contact Psypioneer please e-mail. psypioneer@aol.com
Paul J. Gaunt
234
