{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/psypioneer.iapsop.com\/psypioneer_v2_n11_nov_2006.pdf","mytitle":"Psypioneer V2 N11 Nov 2006","mylang":"de"}
PSYPIONEER
Founded by Leslie Price Editor Paul J. Gaunt
Volume 2, No 11; November 2006
Available as an Electronic Newsletter
Highlights of this issue:
Early spiritualism in England continued…… 235
Dead Men’s Embers: Gerald O’Hara. 238
Was Serjeant Cox a Spiritualist? 242
On the use of the term Parapsychology. 248
Emma Hardinge Britten: Nineteenth Century Miracles. 250
Letters from Mr. J.J. Morse. VII 254
Passing of Mr. W.C. Nation. 257
How to obtain this Newsletter by email. 259
=========================================
Psypioneer would like to extend its best wishes to all its readers and contributors for the
festive season and the coming New Year.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
EARLY SPIRITUALISM IN ENGLAND
CONTINUED….
After the Haydens’ returned to America in 1853, as featured in the last newsletter, this
article was to show the early introduction of Modern Spiritualism in England. I quote:
“Mrs. Hayden introduced the American system of mediumship to London, the form of
communicating with the spirit world through the calling of the alphabet and rappings; that
is spirit telegraphy”.
The spiritualist ‘scene’ was quite uneventful as regards to Spiritualistic Phenomena as
demonstrated by Maria Hayden, until the entrance of Daniel Dunglas Home (1833-1886)
in London, spring 1855. Like Hayden, Home ‘performed’ for the esteemed gentry, this
could be argued that they would have the far greater influence and means to promote the
Modern Spiritual Manifestations, as was shown with Robert Owen, Dr. John Ashburner
and later by Anna Blackwell (1816-1900) in her evidence (1869) and report on
spiritualism, ‘Spiritual Phenomena’ dated July 7th
1870 to the London Dialectical
Society.
235
However, there was earnest preparation of public awareness in progress to describe the
truth and expose the errors contained in the physical, physiological, and psychological
phenomena designated “Modern Spiritual Manifestations”. One such early pioneer in the
North of England was Thomas Pallister Barkas (1) in his book ‘Modern Spiritualism’ (2)
1862; Barkas introduces us to his early works. I quote:
Taken from pages 1-4
EARLY HISTORY AND LETTERS
================================
The subject of Modern Spiritualism was first brought prominently before the public in
the North of England by the publication in January, 1854, of two letters in the columns of
the Newcastle Chronicle. The letters were headed "Supposed Conversation with
Inhabitants of the Spiritual World," and excited considerable attention. No further steps
were taken for openly bringing the question before the northern public until October and
November, 1855, when I addressed six letters to the Editor of the North of England News
and Advertiser. These letters called forth a large amount of criticism, and had the effect
of directing general attention to the subject of spiritualism. They consisted for the most
part of records of proceedings which took place in the presence of a personal friend in a
distant part of the country. The concluding remark in this series of letters was, "If asked
what produces these phenomena, I reply, I do not known any MATERIAL LAWS which
will account for them."
With the exception of three or four lectures by myself in and near Newcastle, and an
occasional negative article in the pages of the newspapers, no special excitement on the
subject of modern spiritualism existed in the northern counties until November, 1860,
when I commenced a series of twenty letters to the Editor of the North of England News
and Advertiser. These letters appeared weekly; they drew forth eight leading articles
from the editor of the paper, forty-three letters from correspondents, the majority being
on the negative side, and five poetical effusions, burlesquing the enquiry, and ridiculing
the enquirers. I shall best bring before my readers the course of enquiry I pursued, the
nature of the defence I set up, and the conclusions to which I had arrived at the time of
writing the letters referred to, by quoting the principal parts of the communications, only
omitting such portions as had special reference to letters of opponents, which were mere
interruptions to the stream of communications I forwarded, and which would not be
understood unless the opposition letters were also published.
LETTER I
To the Editor of the North of England Advertiser
SIRS,
Deliberately, in the face of sneering, contempt, risk of reputation, dogmatism, and
prejudice, and supported by a small number of candid inquirers, sincere believers, and
conviction of truth, I profess myself a believer in the phenomena and facts of spiritualism.
236
In other words, I believe that the phenomena, commonly called spiritual manifestations,
occur; that they are produced in a great majority of cases without trick, collusion, or
mechanical contrivance, that the higher phenomena cannot be produced by mechanical
contrivance; and that such phenomena are produced by some uncorporeal, intelligent,
and invisible agent or agents.
Let it not be understood that I assert all manifestations, palmed off as spiritual, are
genuine, nor, that all the teachings by means of table-tipping, mysterious knockings,
automatic or spirit writings, are reliable; I believe no such thing, and have no wish to
defend such a position. I am only responsible for, and prepared to defend, what I
personally assert to be true in relation to physical manifestations, and in reference to the
personality and teachings of spirits.
With these preliminary remarks let us proceed to the explanation of the subject.
In the Old and New Testament records we have frequent reference to, and illustrations
of, spiritual appearances and teachings. To all, therefore, who believe the scriptures, the
possibility of spiritual manifestations, and of direct and indirect spirit teaching, is
indisputable. I may refer to Adam, Abraham, Belshazzar, Hagar, Isaac, Lot, Moses, Saul,
Mary, Christ, Peter, and John; angel at sepulchre, apostle liberated from prison, &c.,
&c. Indeed from the first chapter in Genesis to the last in Revelations, the Bible is almost
one continuous record of spiritual manifestations. To those who do not believe the Bible,
or who do not believe the miracles in the Bible, these recent spiritual phenomena come as
demonstrative evidence of the possibility of spiritual interference, and, in numerous
instances, persons who for years have been sceptical as to the truthfulness of the
miracles, and of the spiritual visitations recorded in the Bible, have become sincere
believers in both.
In almost every century since the introduction of Christianity into the world, there
have been remarkable, and apparently well authenticated, cases of spiritual visitations,
and apparational appearances. I need scarcely inform your readers that so materialistic
had the philosophy of the world become, that none but the most credulous, or those who
had personally observed apparitions, believed in their existence; and so strong is the
prejudice now, that thousands of persons who have seen apparitions, and could bear
testimony to the reality and truthfulness of these spiritual appearances, dare not, because
of their fear of ridicule.
A few years ago everything was ascribed to natural, material laws, and no forces but
mechanical and muscular forces were supposed to be possible in our present state of
existence. Hence the blind unreasoning prejudice with which modern spiritual
manifestations have been met, and the absence of that candour and severe love of truth
and fair play which characterise the majority of intelligent men when anything is testified
to, which does not come across their strong prejudices. I am far from asserting that we
ought to devote ourselves to the investigation of every scheme and supposed discovery
propounded by every hair-brained fanatic; but when we have remarkable, and apparently
impossible phenomena, testified to by hundreds of respectable men and women, many of
237
whom occupy high educational positions, and none of whom have anything but scorn and
contempt to gain if their testimony prove false, it then becomes our duty to investigate, or,
at least, to refrain from expressing an opinion, until we have investigated. Confident of
the result, a fair and open inquiry is all spiritualists solicit.
Psypioneer will continue in Early Spiritualism in England… in the New Year, 2007.
------------------------
1) Barkas will be looked at in the New Year; he became a significant investigator with
two of the best-known materialisation mediums out side London.
2) The full title of Thomas P. Barkas book is: Outlines of Ten Years’ Investigations into
the Phenomena of Modern spiritualism, Embracing Letters, lectures, &c.
London: Frederick Pitman, Paternoster Row. Newcastle: T.P. Barkas, 1862.
PJG
…………………………………………………………………………….
DEAD MEN’S EMBERS
-----------------
[A new book is now available in the U.K., authored by Gerald O’Hara B.Sc. ‘Dead
Men’s Embers’. This is available direct from Gerald O’Hara 62, Nunnery Lane, York,
Y023 1AJ. U.K. The cost of this book is £15.99 + £2.50 pp within the U.K.]
To contact Gerald, his e-mail address is: cargillohara@talk21.com
Below is printed the introduction of ‘Dead Men’s Embers’, Psypioneer will be reviewing
this new contribution to early spiritualistic history in the January issue:
An Introduction
As serendipity would have it, in the mid-1990’s, into my hands came three rather tatty
Minute books for the St. Saviourgate Spiritualist Society of Spen Lane, York. These books
which have ten years of records in each, from 1899-1929 were in the legible handwriting
of the secretary, William Frank. I have some background in the history of Spiritualism,
having for sometime been a journalist on psychic matters and as I have a deep love of
history it quickly became apparent to me, in reading the minute books, that these dusty
tomes were a gold mine of social and religious history.
Also, there came with them an album of 90 psychic or `spirit' photographs by William
(Billy) Hope that provided a gallery of images of the people about whom I was reading. It
was as if the minute books came to life and from out of the faded pages their faces took
on a familiar aspect and much of their lives were replayed before me. From these
238
coincidences the idea of a portrait of the community, as a book, was born. The title of this
book is adapted from Robert Graves who wrote, "Blow on a dead man's ember and a fire
will start" From looking over the embers of their lives, those embers became this book.
Having been educated in Sociology to degree level, the trusted "compare and contrast"
approach to studying and research naturally created a formula whereby the national and
the local experience could complement and reflect one another. In my approach the local
becomes the model for the illustration of the national picture, this book is as much a
national history of Spiritualism as it a local history. My research took three years and
produced a wealth of previously unpublished items from a seam of history that is still
relatively new and under explored. Given the richness of the material the end result is, I
hope, a genuine contribution to the understanding of religious experience and social
history.
If, as L. P Hartley said, "The Past is a foreign country: they do things differently there,"
it is nevertheless a country to which we have access. Through our efforts understanding
the values, motives and experiences of another age we gain entry to that world. With each
age that passes the effort at understanding the past needs to renewed according to the
precepts of the day. The study of the past is then not a static thing it is rather a stream of
meaning that is passed from age to age and reinterpreted in each new age.
Of central concern to me in writing this book is what meaning and values did `players'
of this book give to their life experiences? I interpret those meanings in to which were
familiar to the characters themselves. Therefore this book is written with an eye to being
a biography, albeit a biography of a group of people whom together formed and ran a
society. As a biography / social history this book is about people and the lives that they
lived.
I have taken this approach, as the people of these pages were involved with a range of
phenomena, which the non-Spiritualist world would have considered to be paranormal.
In order to appreciate the value of their lives, I have adopted the view that what they said
occurred, and was to them evidence of what they experienced. The object then is to
understand the subjects of this biography in their own terms. I believe that this approach
is fundamental to the biographical process.
My challenge is to interpret the past, in terms that were familiar to the chief Players
and I hope thereby to enlarge our experience by appreciating what they considered were
the salient events and experiences of their lives.
Where I am able to present a balanced view by demonstrating contrary or
complementary witness statements, I do present that testimony, as such contributions
enhance and enrich our understanding. What I do not do is follow some that argue that
"paranormal" events cannot occur and therefore do not occur, and any that say
supernatural events do happen are fools. Such scepticism on my part would devalue the
biographical process. The Spiritualists of these pages would have argued after Sir
William Crookes "I do not say that these things are possible, I say that these occur". In
239
saying that supernatural events did occur, the Spiritualists were making statements of
what the fundamental value of that experience was to them.
By extension, the Spiritualists would also have argued after Carl Jung, "I know that
God exists", in that their experience of the supernatural was of paramount importance in
generating the conviction of God's and the Spirit World's existence. What they believed to
be causing the occurrences at a séance was of secondary importance to what they were
experiencing and the various explanations of phenomena were widely debated.
Metaphorically the Spiritualists of York would have argued that faith may indeed move
mountains but they were witness to having seen the mountains move. Faith was then
second hand and the Spiritualists held no doctrines, taught no dogmas and espoused no
creeds.
The local society of Spiritualists were demonstrating the ancient maxim of St. Paul
"try the spirits to see if they be of God". In so doing they were reviled; physically and
verbally abused by the faith-based religions. This book is centrally concerned to under-
stand what the meaning of that experience was to the local Spiritualists. In so doing I
hope to illumine a little further the value of human experience.
The people of these pages were highly sociable with numerous activities devoted
wholly to the provision of food and entertainment. Their private seance activities and
what they were saying amongst themselves as to what they experienced proved to be a
rich vein in religious history that had never before been tapped. There are many extant
accounts of mediumship but here over a thirty year period was an in depth look at what
could be experienced on a regular basis by a dedicated group of people.
I hope that this work will further broaden the area of debate about what constitutes
the Spiritualist's past. Traditionally writers on Spiritualist history have focused upon
national histories of the movement as a whole. My contribution to that debate is to
present much new material, in Chapter One, on the early history of British Spiritualism.
There is new evidence for the craze of Mesmerism, which created the climate for the
acceptance of the later Spiritualist movement and this has been added in Appendix 2.
Modern researchers have developed newer areas of research that debate specific topics
within Spiritualist history. These newer writers have considerably broadened the debate
of what constitutes Spiritualist history. I believe an important area of research has almost
entirely been missed from the narratives, that is the experience of local Spiritualism. As a
new area of research, its capacity to reflect the National experience has previously not
been appreciated.
With regard to the specific researchers I am, as are others, indebted to Logie Barrow
in his book `Independent Spirits' for developing the conceptual model of `Plebeian at
Spiritualism'. This proposes as a tool of study, that Spiritualist supporters were drawn
from those classes of society who could be independent of thought enough to support,
what was widely regarded as a disreputable movement and a movement that was seen as
being in defiance of authority. The model suggests that the earliest supporters were
drawn from amongst the ranks of the politically radical, socially progressive and from
240
the supporters of dissenting religious groups. This model has been used before by other
researchers and throughout this book I will use this model as a tool to assess the material
that I have assembled through my own research.
Chapter One is slightly at variance with the rest of the book in that it is concerned
with the origins of British Spiritualism in the north of England. Its link to York is in that
the origins of the movement in the North of England influenced some of the people of
York to start their own society. It is especially biographical in that it looks at the life of
David Richmond, who is rightly regarded as the pioneer of Spiritualism in the Great
Britain of the 1850's. Richmond's life fulfils the terms of Logie Barrow's model that the
earliest supporters were self-educated, self-reliant in matters of religion and politics.
This chapter is concerned with origins and beginnings and we have conclusive evidence
that the first Spiritualist "church" at Keighley was not established as a church at all but
as a "Brotherhood" that met in a "Temple" and remained so until at least 1907.
It is in Chapter Two that York enters the story and we deal with the origins of the
local society. Chapter Two assesses the impact of the seance upon the witnesses and
looks at the variety of mediumship they experienced, how they organised such events and
assessed the suitability of the mediums to give private seances at York. It takes an in-
depth look at the mediumship of a hither-to forgotten Physical Medium, Michael
Chambers, with whom the York Society was to have an association of over ten years.
Alex Owen in her landmark book, `The Darkened Room' pinpointed another important
area of research, that of the extent to which Spiritualism, as a movement, empowered
women, in a society that politically, socially and in religion, disenfranchised women.
Chapter Three of this book is devoted to addressing many of the issues raised by Alex
Owen et al. as to what extent women were empowered as religious speakers, mediums,
and as members of the local and national societies. Here I present a number of short
biographies of the women mediums, whose lives are illustrative of some of the problems
faced by women at the turn of the 19th century. I address the issue of did women give up
the development of Physical Mediumship after 1879 (as has been suggested). The issue of
women's roles in local and national Spiritualism is central to this book as a whole and
here we take time to analyse women's participation in the society and look at new
material on the role of women as speakers and mediums. Such analysis has never before
been conducted.
A local society can be seen as a model for the development of grass roots Spiritualism
as a national movement. The national psychic press conducted a wide ranging debate on
social issues throughout this whole period and issues that affected the movement
nationally can be judged by how they impacted (or not) on the local society so Chapter
Four looks at the impact that World War I had on the local Society and addresses the
issue of involvement in socially progressive causes.
In presenting the "Portraits of the Community" in Chapter Five we look at what is
known of the lives of the leading players whose photographs are presented throughout
the book. The capacity of local experience to act as a mirror for the national issues and
241
concerns is also balanced by research showing the manner in which the local society
operated. The affiliated society existed within a national union and we assess the
participation the local society could make to the debates of their day. What services were
offered to the Spiritualist public is also looked at in Chapter Five and can be seen as a
model of what was occurring throughout the Spiritualist movement as a whole.
Finally, in the last chapter we look at some of the male physical mediums who visited
York; with special regard to the relations of William (Billy) Hope to the York church, and
examine in detail the work that he did and the legacy of testimony to it left behind by the
York Spiritualists.
Some of the illustrations I have included have no direct link to the text but they are
there to indicate the breadth of participation in the phenomena about which so much has
been forgotten. I make no apology for using those of Florence Cook and Katie King who
are not part of our story. Because so few photographs of materialised spirits were taken,
or have survived, I have used those well known ones, taken by one of our most eminent
scientists of the time, to portray what our players in this portion of the drama of life may
have experienced at their seances.
You will find in this book that as E.M. Forster said, "Death is nothing, if one can
approach it as such"; I believe that was the approach taken by the people of these pages.
……………………………………………………………….
EDWARD WILLIAM COX
Sergeant-at-Law
(1809-1879)
WAS SERJEANT COX A SPIRITUALIST?
Sergeant Cox was a critical observer of physical phenomena in the days preceding the
formation of the SPR. He accepted that some spiritualistic phenomena were genuine as in
the case of D.D. Home. He did not however, publicly accept the ‘Spirit Hypothesis’ as an
explanation for the phenomena he witnessed.
While working and assisting William Crookes in his 1871 experiments with D.D. Home,
Cox introduced the term ‘Psycic Force,’ (i.e., nervous atmosphere enveloping the human
structure).
In 1875 he founded the Psychological Society for Great Britain. After his death however,
it was promptly dissolved on the 31st
December 1879.
In the notes and letter pages of the December edition of ‘Spiritual Notes’ Vol.1. No.
XVIII 1879, I noted his obituary, and a question raised of the British psychical researcher
242
Sergeant-at-Law Edward William Cox: The question was, ‘did Sergeant Cox in the last
few years of his life accept the Spiritualist Hypothesis, which during his investigations he
strongly did not accept’? ‘Was Sergeant Cox a Spiritualist?’
Printed below is from Spiritual Notes.
December, 1879. Page 235:-
MR. SERJEANT COX passed from earth-life very suddenly on Monday night,
November 24th, at his residence at Mill Hill, Hendon, in his 71st year, having been busily
at work and apparently in excellent health to the very last. As our readers know, the
learned Serjeant was the author of several works on mental and psychological subjects,
and was the founder and president of the Psychological Society. Now that he is gone, the
question is being asked, with more emphasis than ever - Was he a Spiritualist? If we
judged from his public utterances, we should say No. In place of spirit he put psychic
force. He would not "give in" to spirit, as Sir David Brewster said. But in his private
experiences we have strong reasons for believing he was a Spiritualist of Spiritualists.
We do not for one moment accuse the late Serjeant of insincerity; but we do think that,
for reasons which might be wise, and which no doubt satisfied his own conscience, he
understated his belief in public.
His theory would not cover all the facts with which he himself was familiar; and now
that he is gone - not to the realm of psychic force - but to the spiritual world, the psychic
theory will not long survive.
January 1880, edition of Spiritual Notes on page 242 brings a letter from the physical
medium William Eglinton. (1857-1933):-
WAS SERJEANT COX A SPIRITUALIST?
To the Editor
SIR,-In your issue of the 1st December, in referring to the lamented death of the late Mr.
Serjeant Cox, you ask the question, Was he a Spiritualist'? I am in a position to say, from
words which fell from his own lips, at the house of Mrs. Macdougall Gregory, (1) that he
was. It was after a dinner there; and when he was closely pressed by Mrs. Gregory, in the
presence of Sir Jocelyn Coyghill and others, he remarked, "If I am not a Spiritualist now,
I never shall be;" and when asked for his definition of Spiritualism, he replied, "I mean I
believe most fully that my daughter Florence has returned to me this evening as a spirit."
As a medium, I am glad to be able to pay my tribute to the kindness, courtesy, and
friendship which characterised him in his connection with me and others in his
investigations. Yours truly,
W. EGLINTON.
32, Fopstone-road, Earl's Court, S.W.,
Nov. 3oth.
243
In the same January issue page 244 of Spiritual Notes an editorial article featuring Mr.
Munton. (It fell upon Mr. F.K. Munton the former hon. secretary of ‘The Psychological
Society’, which was founded and presided by Sergeant Cox until his death; to collect the
assets and discharge the obligations of the said society):-
“DOUBTING DOUBT”
------------------------------
WITH the death of Serjeant Cox and the consequent disruption of the Psychological
Society, a somewhat irrelevant question has been raised as to whether the late serjeant
was a Spiritualist or not. Mr. Munton is anxious to put it on record that he was not. That
he did not wish the Psychological Society to become a Spiritualistic society is quite
another matter; but that Mr. Serjeant Cox was some time before his departure a
Spiritualistic in the most complete and exhaustive sense of the term is capable of being
proved from his own words.
We have the testimony of Mr. Eglinton to the fact that the late serjeant expressed his
firm belief that he had seen and conversed with his departed daughter at a seance held in
the house of Mrs. Makdougal Gregory; and if that does not constitute him a Spiritualist,
we should like to know what evidence would be deemed sufficient. That he held his
judgment in abeyance, and coquetted with psychic force until he found it insufficient to
cover the facts he had accumulated, only proves that, in Tennyson's words, "he forgot his
doubts and gathered strength." Such tardily convinced converts are always better in the
end than those who jump to conclusions, and sometimes leap back from them again just
as nimbly.
There was an interesting letter in the Spectator of December 20th, which, though not
alluding in the least to Spiritualism, bore very clearly on the subject. It was written by
Julia Wedgwood, and headed "Doubting Doubt.'' Its object was to point out the wide
distinction between doubt and denial. Your hard-headed Atheist and dogmatic Evan-
gelical does not doubt. He denies. The bugbear of one is theism in general; of the other
Catholicism in particular. The doubter, as we have said, holds his judgment in suspense,
waiting for fresh evidence. To revert to Serjeant Cox's case, such a mind may rest in such
a theory as psychic force for a time; but when it is proved incommensurate with new
experiences, it is quietly abandoned, or, rather, expanded into something else more
adequate to the explanation. Such men do not feel it necessary to sound a trumpet or to
proclaim their convictions from the housetop. Hence an imperfect observer is apt to
gauge them unfairly. And it is something of the same kind to which the really able letter
in the Spectator refers. The writer says (and no Spiritualist can read her remarks without
interest):-
"I am struck continually by seeing how men of really powerful minds, trained
thoroughly to doubt on their own field of observation, when they come to a region with
which they are unfamiliar, think that if they do not believe any statement, they must
perforce disbelieve it. These seem the intellectual alternatives even to men who give evi-
244
dence of a capacity for that rare and arduous intellectual attitude,-a continued attention,
and a suspended judgment. It is a dangerous error to assume that men have reached this
arduous position, when they have simply slipped into that blank negation which is
testified, not only by the words of such outspoken men as Professor Clifford, but quite as
effectually by many of his fellows, who show in all their words that they account for the
beliefs which they cannot share by assuming hallucination in believers, and not allowing
for the possibility of blindness in unbelievers. I think we thus run the danger of confusing
a condition which every observer of this mysterious world must acknowledge to be a part
of the discipline appointed for us by its ruler, with one which seems, to me, a flat defiance
to our trust in that which is noblest in human beings,-a want of reverence for the thoughts
of men who have profoundly influenced the world, and to whom, in some measure, we all
owe it that we are what we are."
Those words appeared, opportunely enough, on the eve of the day which the Church of
England dedicates to the memory of St. Thomas, the first doubter. As the Church of Free
Thought she treats such doubt as being allowed "for the mere confirmation of the faith;"
and we cannot help thinking that the honestly expressed doubt of men like Serjeant Cox
(and of others we could name) followed in due course by equally honest and outspoken
avowal of convictions, does more for the propagation of right views than the hasty or
otiose assent of persons who are too apt to confound faith with credulity.
In conclusion:
Psychical Researcher and Spiritualist? Edward William Cox made a substantially
significant impact on the annuals of Psychical Research.
Sergeant Cox was quoted recently in Vol. 2 No.8 of Psypioneer-Newsletter in two
articles: The seizure of Mrs. Elgie Corner and; Second Thoughts on the First Psychic.
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP2.8August06..pdf
Sergeant Cox was not a debunker of spiritualistic phenomena, but a critical observer who
had, perhaps become trapped in his own theories as to the causes of Physical Mediumship
which he witnessed on many occasion. Fritz, (2) in his book: ‘Where are the Dead? Or,
Spiritualism Explained’ 3rd
edition 1875, recounts on page 58 a speech given by James
Burns.
Burns speech was delivered in a public debate with Mr. Charles Bradlaugh; Burns
described a séance that was attended by Serjeant Cox and the editor of The spiritualist,
Mr. W.H. Harrison, together with a gentleman who was a master of arts, and was referred
to as M.A., on the 14th
December 1872, at 16, Old Quebec-Street, London. The mediums
were Mr. and Mrs. Holmes and Miss. Cook; I shall record the full report due to its rarity:
245
The following is a description of a dark séance, followed by the more wonderful
phenomena of the visible materialisation of the spirit faces under gaslight. Fritz
----------------------------------------------------
"The mediums were Mr. and Mrs. Holmes and Miss Cook. There were a number of
ladies and gentlemen present; one of whom was a master of arts, who signs himself M.A.,
and who has given an account of certain manifestations in the Liverpool Mercury a few
months ago. Another gentleman was Mr. Serjeant Cox; and another the editor of The
Spiritualist, Mr. Harrison; besides Mr. Cook's family. The first thing done was for a
stranger and a sceptical observer - this master of arts investigating the subject - to
thoroughly tie the medium in such a way that all the knots were recognised; they were
test knots, and were examined by those present. The next thing was for those present to
hold hands, the persons at the ends of the circle passing both hands into the hand of the
person next to them. After the doors were locked and the room was searched the lights
were put out. Then the musical instruments that were upon the table were lifted up and
carried about the room, and were played four or five at once. Then immediately you
heard the medium (who was tied, and sitting two or three yards away) speaking and
breathing.
Then there was a person speaking to you close to your face, touching your hands and
your brow, slapping you, laying instruments upon your head and various parts of the
body. Then another person came. One was a male and the other a female. One called
himself “Richard," and the other called her self "Rosie." Rosie was a little girl, who went
round and kissed everybody. I will tell you what she did to me. She took hold of my ear
with her hand, put her little, soft, moist mouth upon my cheek, and kissed me with an
audible intonation. After these instruments went round, something took the ropes off and
threw them at the man that tied them. Sometimes the lady is tied up by the same power
much more tightly than her visitors can tie her, A visitor was asked to go and hold the
lady's hands. In the first place he was told to be careful to feel all down the arms to see
that there was nothing upon them, and having done so to hold the hands. Well, there were
hoops-a tambourine hoop (with cymbals, so that it could be easily heard when moved), a
wooden hoop with a iron hoop upon it. The visitor felt that those objects were there; then,
holding the medium's hands tightly, that tambourine hoop with an iron hoop upon it came
upon his arm, without his hand being disengaged from hers."
After this, proceeds Mr. Burns:
"We had a light seance, which was arranged in this way: There were two rooms, with
a door leading from one into the other. A temporary door was placed therein, with an
aperture in it. The inner room was thoroughly searched, and then the door was locked.
One candle was allowed to be burning in the room where the company was sitting; a hat
was placed before it to prevent the rays falling upon the aperture. Mr. and Mrs. Holmes
sat at each side of a little table just under the aperture. Miss Cook sat at the table facing
the aperture. We all sat round in a semicircle; Mr. Serjeant Cox immediately behind Miss
Cook and opposite the aperture, and M. A. beside Mr. Sergeant Cox. In a little while a
246
face came to the aperture; M. A. recognised it as the likeness of a departed friend. He
said, 'Are you A. W.?' and the face nodded affirmatively. It went away and came again.
Another face then came - a masculine face with strong features. I recognised it at once; I
had seen it shown in a similar way at two previous seances. After this face went away,
two others were seen imperfectly. Then came another face, with grey hair, and a fine
intelligent expression of countenance. It showed itself with a great deal of clearness. Mr.
Serjeant Cox recognised it as the likeness of his deceased uncle. I do not say it was his
deceased uncle; I say it was his likeness. He said, 'Do you represent Robert Cox?' The
face bowed. It showed itself five or six times, twenty or thirty seconds each time. Then the
door was opened, and Miss Cook and Mr. Holmes went inside beyond the aperture, and
sat for another development of the faces. Then the same head came again, not from below
but from the ceiling, and showed itself a number of times in various positions, so that Mr.
Serjeant Cox was absolutely certain that it represented his deceased uncle. Then in a
short time the hat was taken away so as to allow the light of the candle to fall full upon
the aperture, and there was seen in drapery, able to speak-so that we could talk to it-the
face of a lady, said to be the spirit 'Katey' - so she calls herself-manifested through the
mediumship of Miss Cook. The spirit had to apologise for the fact that because of certain
conditions it could only represent itself in the peculiar features of the lady who was
sitting in trance in a chair at some distance from the opening."
Edward Cox investigated Mrs. Samuel Guppy nee Agnes Nichol and later known after a
second marriage as Guppy-Volckman. Guppy, who I believe was discovered by British
Naturalist and Spiritualist Dr. Alfred Wallace (1823-1913) in around 1866, she was well
known as an apport medium as well as other manifestations.
Emma Hardinge Britten in her ‘Nineteenth Century Miracles’, 1883 on pages 160-161,
records this séance with Cox:
The first whose testimony we cite, is the late eminent jurist, Serjeant Cox, who, in a paper
read before the Psychological Society of Great Britain, relates in very minute detail, how
he one day called at Mrs. Guppy's residence at Highbury, and solicited the favour of her
company at a Spiritual circle, to be held that evening at his own residence. Serjeant Cox
candidly states, that he desired to take Mrs. Guppy unaware of his invitation, and the
lady in her own simple and amiable way, immediately complied with the request
preferred.
It was winter time, and the ground was covered with snow. Mrs. Guppy having
arranged her dress, entered the hired cab which Serjeant Cox had brought, and drove
with him some four miles to his residence. From the time of her arrival at his house, till
the period of the seance, about five hours later, Serjeant Cox or the ladies of his family
never for one moment lost sight of Mrs. Guppy, and yet within three minutes of the time
that the circle had assembled, in a room which had been thoroughly searched, the one
door locked, and the key deposited in Serjeant Cox's pocket, when the light was
extinguished, heavy thuds were heard on the table, the lights were called for by signal,
and the table was found to be covered with heaps of pure white snow. When this
unwelcome freight of matter had been removed, the party re-formed, and the gas
247
extinguished, more deposits were heard falling, fresh signals were made for lights, and
the table was found literally piled up with lovely hothouse flowers, arranged with
exquisite' taste into divers fanciful groups.
Finally, I finish WAS SERJEANT COX A SPIRITUALIST? with a short quote, however
significant in its content from a fellow Barrister-at-Law, Samuel Cater Hall (1800-1889).
Hall, with his wife were well-known authors Mr. Hall founded, (commenced from 15th
February 1839), and edited The Art Journal.
Mr. and Mrs. S.C. Hall were respected spiritualists, Mr. Hall wrote a book on
Spiritualism, The Use of Spiritualism. In 1883, with is wife now deceased he published
‘Retrospect of a Long Life; from 1815-1883’ under the heading of “Recollections of Mrs.
S.C. Hall” as published in The Medium and Daybreak Volume XIV No.668 on June 8th
1883 we find these two quotes:
Mr. Hall regards the late Serjeant Cox as “a Spiritualist in all senses of the term,” but
who, in his published books guarded the expression of his options somewhat, that
prejudice might not “weaken his decisions delivered in a court of justice”.
Hall continued: Moral courage he lacked, or he would have boldly and bravely resigned
his office as junior Judge of Sessions (the salary being no object to him), and have
avowed the options he was known to hold, which in private he did not disavow.” He left a
fortune “of probably £400,000 - gained without wrong-doing certainly”
-----------------------------------------------------------
1) The correct spelling of this name is: Makdougall Gregory. Mrs. Gregory was one of
the Vice Presidents of the ‘British National Association of Spiritualists’ established 1873.
2) Fritz was the pseudonym for Mr. F.A. Binney
PJG
…………………………………………………….
Dr. Carlos S. Alvarado, Chairman of Domestic and International Programs for the
Parapsychology Foundation (http://www.parapsychology.org/) has kindly sent this for the
Psypioneer-Newsletter:
On the Use of the Term Parapsychology in 1887
====================================================
Carlos S. Alvarado
When Max Dessoir’s (1867-1947) creation and use of the term parapsychology to
designate the study of a particular set of phenomena is discussed, writers place his first
published use of the term in 1889 (e.g., Hövelmann, 1987; Thalbourne & Rosenbaum,
248
1986). However, the term was used with a different meaning in 1887 in an unsigned
article in the journal Science (Mental Science, 1887).
In its early years Science carried news and reviews about psychological topics. The
note in question, concerned with psychopathology, appeared in a regular section about
psychological topics called “Mental Science”.
The anonymous author of the note stated that “the term ‘para-psychology’ may be
invented to apply to those weirdly imaginative systems of thought by which some
intellects strive to satisfy their inner longings, and to make the world seem rational” (p.
511). An example of this mental delusion was a case of an architect who went to India to
study “internal truth” and developed a system of symbols, presented in a series of
drawings. There were five stages of evolution in his system, the fifth of which was
described as so ideally spiritual as to entirely surpass our finite conceptions, and only
glimpsed perhaps now and then by a supersensitive clairvoyant” (p. 511). This fifth stage
was said to “require a fourth dimension to do it justice . . .” (p. 511).
This “para-psychological system” was accompanied by “a fanciful application of
arithmetical, geometrical and harmonic progression . . .” (p. 511). The whole project was
described as a “sad spectacle of misused talent (and that can be seen in any insane-
asylum) . . . [that] illustrates the great danger of mono-ideism, and of that unchecked
imagination which has prepared so many victims to the snares of a mad symbolism” (p.
511).
Such early use of “parapsychology” was clearly not meant to designate the field of
study to which the word refers today. Instead it was invented as a label for a delusional
system of thought, something “beside” normal psychology. The frequent use of
“parapsychology” to refer to the systematic study of psychic phenomena had to wait till
later German authors popularized the term (e.g., Oesterreich, 1921), as can be seen in the
title of the Zeitschrift für Parapsychology (since 1926). Later on the term was used in the
United States to designate the experimental approach to the field. But that is another story
(Alvarado, 2006).
References:
Hovelmann, G.H. (1987). Max Dessoir and the origins of the word "parapsychology."
Journal of the Society for Psychical Research, 54, 61-63.
Mental science: Para-psychology. (1887). Science, 9, 510-511.
Oesterreich, T.T. (1921). Grundbegriffe der Parapsychologie. Pfullingen: J. Baum.
Thalbourne, M.A., & Rosenbaum, R.D. (1986) The origin of the word "parapsychology."
Journal of the Society for Psychical Research, 53, 225-229.
Carlos Alvarado discusses the topic here: http://www.pflyceum.org/111.html
249
================================
EMMA HARDINGE BRITTEN
1823-1899
PROBLEMS WITH THE PUBLICATION OF
NINTEENTH CENTURY MIRACLES
--------------------------------------------
It is hard to believe that this famous Spiritualist; pioneering propagandist of early Modern
Spiritualism, medium, author of numerous books, publications, leaflets and one of the
finest inspirational speakers, as well as being accredited with recording many of the
historic events of modern spiritualism; would in fact have some financial difficulty with
the publication of what was to become one of the major reference books on the history
spiritualism! ‘Nineteenth Century Miracles’
In James Burns ‘Medium and Daybreak’ Emma Hardinge Britten has a somewhat
desperate, full page public appeal to help publish ‘Nineteenth Century Miracles’ in her
country of origin, this appeal and its fulfilment is printed below:
Taken from ‘Medium and Daybreak’ Volume. XIV. No. 691 June 29, 1883 page 407.
IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
MRS. EMMA HARDINGE-BRITTEN'S GREAT NEW WORK - THE HISTORY OF
THE MODERN SPIRITUAL MOVEMENT ALL OVER THE EARTH - is completed
and ready for Publication. It will be entitled:-
SPIRITS AND THEIR WORK IN EVERY COUNTRY OF THE EARTH:
OR,
NINETEENTH CENTURY MIRACLES.
A COMPLETE HISTORICAL COMPENDIUM OF THE GREAT MOVEMENT
KNOWN AS "MODERN SPIRITUALISM."
-----------------------
This Work forms a full and exhaustive account of all the MAIN INCIDENTS OF A
SPIRITUALISTIC CHARACTER, which have transpired in EVERY COUNTRY OF THE
EARTH, from the beginning of the nineteenth century to the present time.
The subject matter has been collated from the most authentic printed, written, and
oral sources. The contributors include some of the most learned, scientific, and honoured
personages of the age. Testimony has been gathered up (in many instances by the Author
in person, during her world-wide travels) from every country, and includes the
Spiritualism of all peoples whether savage or civilised. The scenes are world-wide, but
the period of action is strictly limited to THE PRESENT CENTURY.
250
No attempt has been made to touch upon the Spiritualism of ancient and mediaeval
times, so many treatises having already been written on these subjects that they are worn
threadbare; the present Work, therefore, will be devoted exclusively to the spiritual facts
and revealments of the WONDERFUL AGE WE LIVE IN.
Spontaneous manifestations of spirit power dating from the year I800, and the
development of the SPIRITUAL TELEGRAPH, from Mesmerism, Psychology,
Clairvoyance, and Somnambulism, up to Spirit Mediumship, will be traced out step by
step.
THE SPIRITUALIST will find in this work a complete manual of every phenomenon he
wishes to read of, refer to, or describe to others.
THE INVESTIGATOR will obtain a compendium of every work of value he needs to
study.
THE SCEPTIC will be herein answered, and THE OPPONENT refuted at every point.
The Author has spent nearly a quarter of a century in collecting her materials, and
has spared no expense in verifying and strictly authenticating her facts.
To every student of Psychology, Spiritual Science, Religious Reform, Mesmerism,
Spiritualism, and Occultism, the Author - in deep earnestness of purpose, and in the name
of the wise controlling spirits, who have commanded her work and assisted unceasingly
to aid in its execution - ventures to affirm that, both for this and many succeeding genera-
tions, this volume will prove a COMPLETE LIBRARY of the subjects dealt with, and a
manual of incalculable value.
FOR ALL TIME: PUBLISHED IN ENGLAND
It now only remains for the author to question whether this most important work shall
be carried hence to distant lands, or wait for the enterprise of future generations to
redeem from neglect and obscurity. A glance at the Table of Contents will afford but a
faint idea of the astounding matter with which this work abounds.
It must be added with deep regret and some sense of humiliation, that whilst the
itinerant trickster and pretended exposer of the GREAT SPIRITUAL OUTPOURING, or
the charlatan who makes capital by exhibiting the most trivial and insignificant items of
psychical power, can command the "moral support" of the highest in the land, and reap
overflowing financial rewards by reviling the most sacred of truths, the toiling labourers
of the Spiritual Vineyard are crippled and fettered in their efforts to put forth the sublime
facts and philosophy of the Movement for lack of the smallest need of adequate support.
Shall THIS DISGRACE continue to attach to the ranks of those who have been blessed
with the glorious light of Spiritual Life and Communion?
251
Shall the Spiritual journalist continue to beg, and the Authors to plead, for the petty
sums necessary to give this grand Cause publicity, or retreat into ignoble silence and
obscurity, leaving the light of the age to die out for want of the fuel to sustain it?
The Author of this vast record being merely "a working woman," CANNOT, and
therefore does not propose to attempt its publication in Europe, unless there is some
guarantee of a fund adequate to cover the cost of the first 1,000 volumes.
The Work will consist of from 500 to 700 pages. To present it in any manner worthy of
its deep importance, the lowest price at which it can be issued is 12s. 6d. per copy: a sum
which will only meet the inevitable outlay, without leaving any present prospect of
remuneration for the Author.
To ascertain how far this volume can be published in England, Mrs. Hardinge-Britten
appeals to those who may sympathise with her undertaking to aid her by PROMISES OF
SUBSCRIPTIONS OR DONATIONS, to the amount of a certain number of copies,-
responses to this proposition being earnestly solicited during THE ENSUING MONTH.
If at the end of that time a sufficient number of subscriptions are guaranteed to
warrant the Author in sending her Work to press, it will be ISSUED IMMEDIATELY.
Should this appeal prove unsuccessful in the above named respect, Mrs. Hardinge-
Britten must in duty to the large interests involved in her undertaking seek in other lands
for more cordial but necessary support.
The earliest possible response is kindly solicited, addressed to:-
MRS. HARDINGE-BRITTEN, THE LIMES, HUMPHREY STREET, CHEETHAM HILL,
MANCHESTER.
Recorded in the same journal on the August 24th
edition, page 543:
NINETEENTH CENTURY MIRACLES;
OR,
SPIRITS AND THEIR WORK IN EVERY COUNTRY OF THE EARTH.
BY
EMMA HARDINGE BRITTEN.
To the few Friends - whose promised Subscriptions to the above-named Work, and kind
cheering letters have already been received - the Author begs to tender her sincere and
heartfelt thanks. At present, however, the Subscriptions do not reach more than one half
the necessary expenses of publication.
At the urgent request of a few interested parties, especially from the wholesouled
Spiritualist Societies of the North, the period open to Subscribers has been extended to
September: before which time, those who desire that a complete and exhaustive
252
HISTORY OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM shall be issued from an European Press, are
earnestly solicited to aid the work by speedy and liberal promises of support.
The Work will consist of from 500-600 pages, royal 8vo., and to
SUBSCRIBERS ONLY
We will note that the title has been reversed, and the maximum pages have dropped from
700, to 600. By October 5th
the paper’s editor James Burns informs us that the book is at
the press.
The reader is also advised, that since the first announcement of its publication, ‘a fine
collection of portraits of illustrious spiritualists has been added. For subscribers only
single copies 12s. 6d,. Five copies £2.10’.
Then in the Medium and Daybreak December 28th
1883, on page 827 an advertisement
announces that the book is ‘now ready’; is published by William Britten, Manchester;
E.W. Allen, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C., and states, that this volume contains nearly
600 pages, royal octavo, fine thinned paper, handsomely bound in cloth. A limited
number will be issued, splendidly illustrated with fac-similes of Spirit Writing, Art, &c.,
&c., and over Forty Portraits of Illustrious and Celebrated Spiritualists and Mediums.
The price is again recorded giving perhaps some confusion as previously quoted: “a fine
collection of portraits of illustrious spiritualists has been added. For subscribers only
single copies 12s. 6d,. Five copies £2.10.,” as the eventual published price was 15s for
illustrated copies and 12s. 6d. for a non-illustrated copy.
I myself have two first edition? copies and they each contain 556 pages, with around 34
photographs some of which are actual photographs affixed to the pages, others are prints.
I would be interested to know if there are different early editions so far as the plates are
concerned, if any readers have a copy of this book with more than 556 pages or over
Forty Portraits of Illustrious and Celebrated Spiritualists and Mediums as was
announced I would be most interested to hear from you.
PJG
…………………………………………………………….
253
We continue with the letters of J. J. Morse’s Australia / New Zealand trip between
the periods of September 1902 to June 1903. This 7th letter is sent from Melbourne,
Australia, as published in ‘Light’ June 6th
1903.
LETTERS FROM MR. J. J. MORSE
=================
VII
Ten months have sped since last my feet trod English soil, and leave was taken of the
dear friends in the Homeland, now so many leagues away. Two months hence we shall
start to climb up the world on our homeward way across the broad Pacific to the Golden
Gate, and thence across the Rockies and many a broad plain and prairie down to the
Atlantic shores, on reaching which we shall feel that England is but just across the way,
for the final three thousand miles of our nearly thirty thousand miles of journeyings will
seem a mere bagatelle, Australasia has treated us most kindly; we have made hosts of
friends, and had a pleasant time while under the Southern Cross; yet our hearts remain
true to those we love in our island home up in the Northern seas.
When my previous letter was written I was in New Zealand, since which time my
labours in that colony have ended, and once more I am in 'marvellous Melbourne,' as
Victorians delight to describe the capital of this State. My experiences in Wellington, New
Zealand, were more than pleasant; indeed my experience of New Zealand will long
remain bright in my recollection. In the first place our cause there occupies about the
best position in any place so far visited. The Wellington Spiritualists' Association is a
legally incorporated body, and is registered by the State. The law is quite strict, and
compels the officers to subject their accounts to the Government auditor for examination
and certification, and should any malfeasance occur stringent penalties are imposed,
some years since the association purchased a plot of ground in an excellent part of the
city, and thereon erected a substantial hall capable of seating nearly five hundred people.
The main hall is well-arranged, handsomely decorated, and the entire building is lighted
by electricity. In addition there is a commodious social hall, which is used for suppers,
small assemblies, and circles. The appliances are ample for providing refreshments; the
retiring rooms are commodious and furnished with all the necessary accommodations. So
popular is the building that it is in constant request for wedding breakfasts, private
receptions, balls, and other public functions. It is the only hall in all Australasia that is
owned by our brethren, and is a monument to the energy and determination of the Spirit-
ualists of the capital city of New Zealand.
The business of the association is conducted by a capable committee under the able
presidency of Mr. William McLean, J.P., a former member of the New Zealand
Parliament. This gentleman negotiated the purchase of the land, drew the plans of the
building, and supervised its erection, and for over twenty years has been the mainspring
of the local work. I am under many obligations to Mr. McLean for innumerable
courtesies during my stay, for in every possible manner he contributed to my personal
pleasure, and the great success attending my public labours.
254
My stay was originally arranged to cover four weeks, but 'Tien's' abilities proved so
satisfactory that the period was extended to six weeks, during which fifteen meetings were
held. The audiences on all occasions were most satisfactory in number and character,
and, as an admission fee of one shilling was charged on Sunday nights, that fact, of itself,
is sufficient testimony to the popularity of the work done. On two week evenings I gave
lantern lectures illustrating the growth of the cause in America and in Great Britain; the
various views of our English halls, and the portraits of our home workers, being
enthusiastically greeted by the crowded audiences present on each occasion. The pictures
referring to our Lyceums, and various phases of spirit phenomena, elicited the utmost
interest.
My labours in Wellington were preceded by a magnificent welcome meeting, and they
terminated with an equally pleasing farewell assembly. To my surprise and gratification,
the members of the association made me several handsome presentations in testimony of
their appreciation and esteem, consisting of a magnificent travelling rug, made of the
skin of the Tasmanian opossum, a beautiful fountain pen, and a pretty solid silver toilet
pin case for Mrs. Morse. Other friends presented me with some Maori curios, and
various views of the Wonderland of the Maoris. Many complimentary speeches were
delivered, and the hope was expressed that at some time in the no distant future I might
be induced to visit New Zealand again. The day following I sailed from my warm-hearted
friends, and on the ss. 'Victoria' voyaged across the Tasman sea to Sydney, New South
Wales.
My stay in Wellington was varied by a short trip 'up country' to a typical new 'Bush'
town, called Levin, fifty-nine miles north of the capital. The ride is over the Wellington
and Manawatu Railway, through a pretty country, the ocean on one side. The town of
Levin is only some nine years old, but there is an air of prosperity and progress about it
which augurs well for its future success. A very large and comfortable hotel, numerous
excellent stores, many well-built residences, end broad streets, are striking features,
showing the determination of the citizens to make their city all that can be desired. There
is also a fine sheet of water, called Lake Horowhenua, which is the possession of the
local Maori tribe, and on the shores of which, and upon two artificial islands in the midst
of the water, many sanguinary battles were fought in former times, a particularly
bloodthirsty massacre occurring on the islands. But islands and shore have long since
been deserted, though many sensitives have seen the ghostly forms of former Maori
warriors who still appear to lurk near the scene of their former strife. Kevin possess an
up-to-date weekly newspaper, 'The Manawatu Farmer,' owned, published, and edited by
Mr. W. C. Nation, who is also a J.P., a councillor, and holds other official positions, and
is the leading Spiritualist of the city and district. In the evening, Mr. Nation assembled
the local friends in his drawing room and we held an impromptu meeting, ,'Tien' and
`The Strolling Player ' contributing to the instruction and enjoyment of the occasion.
Early the next morning, my good friend, Mr. T. J. O. Volkman (to whom I was indebted
for this most enjoyable little holiday, and of whom mention has previously been made),
and myself, with a local spiritual medium, and started on a twenty miles drive down to
Otaki, through a lovely stretch of country. On our way we saw numbers of Maori men,
255
women, and children, and passing some Maori meeting houses my camera was brought
into operation, for native buildings are rapidly becoming things of the past. The visit to
Otaki was undertaken for the purpose of inspecting the Maori Church there, but to our
disappointment we found that the original edifice had given place to an ordinary church
building, and only the interior presented the Maori form of decoration. The lighting not
being suitable, a photograph could not be taken of the interior, so I had to be content
with a 'shot ' at the exterior, but was fortunate in securing a good picture of a beautiful
tomb of a departed native, with a long inscription in Maori upon it. We reached
Wellington the same evening, travelling the rest of the journey by train. Last November,
Miss Morse also visited Levin, and held two very successful meetings in the Court House.
My impressions of New Zealand are decidedly favourable. The laws are advanced in
character. Universal suffrage prevails, and men and women have the franchise equally.
Old age pensions and Government life assurances are in operation; a Government public
trustee provides a safe means for administering wills, estates, and trust money. The
Temperance party has local option, and prohibition has been in operation for some time
in various places. There is a low crime rate, comparatively little drunkenness or vice, and
capital crimes are very few in numbers. Early closing is compulsory by law; all shops
must close one half-day in each week, and, excepting restaurants and one or two other
trades, must close at 6 p.m., save on Saturdays, when the hour is 10 p.m. If paid
assistants are kept working after hours a fine is imposed, but the proprietor and his
family may themselves run the business every day up to 10 p.m., providing it is not a
factory within the meaning of the Act. Factory legislation regulates the hours of work,
and wages boards are empowered to fix a minimum wage; but while that appears an
advantage to the workers, it is not so in reality, for the artificial maintaining of wages
raises the cost of production, so that if more is earned, more is expended for the
necessaries of life. Later, and in another form, it is my intention to deal more fully with
the conditions of life in New Zealand, and as I have in my possession a large amount of
official statistics, it will be possible to say something really useful to many at home who
pay think that the colony in question is really a workers' paradise.
During my stay in Wellington it was a pleasure to meet and take lunch with Sir Robert
Stout, K.C.M.G., the Chief Justice of the colony. He is a fine man in every respect, keenly
interested in freethought matters, and well acquainted with all the prominent writers on
that side in Europe and the United States. Having heard that he was also a Spiritualist, I
put the question to him, and his reply was in the negative; he had seen much, he added,
but not sufficient to convince him that the evidence for communication between the two
worlds had been established.
I reached Melbourne again on Good Friday, and on Sunday last commenced my final
month's work in the city. A large and enthusiastic audience was in attendance to welcome
me back. On the 12th prox. Mrs. Morse and myself will bid adieu to the State of Victoria
and sail for Brisbane, Queensland, where I am to give a course of twelve lectures, and
from there on to Auckland for a flying visit, en route to San Francisco, which will be
reached during July.
256
During the past three months Miss Morse has been lecturing here for the Victorian
Association of Spiritualists, to large audiences and with pronounced success. Last night
the association tendered her a farewell, many nice things being said of her personally
and regarding her work, and a handsome gold and opal brooch being presented to her as
a souvenir of her visit. To-morrow she sails for New Zealand, where she lectures in
Dunedin during May, and then on to Auckland for several lectures, and at that port we
shall pick her up for the trip across the Pacific Ocean. My next letter will be from
Brisbane, where my Australasian tour will end.
Melbourne, Australia,
April 21st, 1903.
J.J. Morse gives mention to W.C. Nation, his work for Spiritualism continued for another
27 years.
Taken from ‘The Two Worlds’ July 11, 1930
PASSING OF MR. W. C. NATION
………………………………………………..
NEW ZEALAND'S TORCHBEARER.
………………………………………
A MEMOIR.
……….
SPIRITUALISTS throughout the world will hear with regret of the transition of Mr.
William Charles Nation the torchbearer of Spiritualism in New Zealand, whose
promotion to the higher life we have to announce this week. Mr. Nation, who passed
away on May 29th last, was truly a veteran. He was in his 9lst year.
From a very early age, Mr. Nation felt the call of the spirit world upon his services.
He was born in Sydney, New South Wales, in 1840, where he received a high school
education. When 17 he moved with his family to New Zealand, where his father had
commenced publishing a newspaper, printed in Nelson. He was prominently connected
then with the Sunday school, Band of Hope and other juvenile movements, and it was,
indeed, whilst attending the local Sunday school that he first met the daughter of an
English cloth manufacturer, a Miss Webley, whom he was later destined to marry and to
enjoy the comradeship of for 59 years. Mr. Nation has described this period of his life as
"one long courtship."
Mr. Nation had a large heart and an ever-open hand, and it was this disposition which
probably led him to commence rescue work amongst the destitute. He and his wife were
257
the means of obtaining the admittance of fifteen young women into the Anglican Rescue
Home. Mr. Nation was then still connected with the Orthodox Church.
Some years afterwards, however, he and his family began to amuse themselves with
table-tilting, and the surprising phenomena which subsequently took place upset all Mr.
Nation's orthodoxy. Night after night they obtained trance speaking, automatic writing,
raps and even a type of slate writing. On one occasion several influential native Maori
chiefs paid a visit to his home, and were considerably startled when one of their number
suddenly assumed control and gave evidence of the presence and identity of another
chief's "dead" grandfather.
The Nation family were soon to learn what religious persecution was, however. In
business Mr. Nation began to be looked upon as one who was "in league with the devil."
One evening he asked a spirit friend why he was to be the butt of so much censure. The
reply was that the phenomena would not always continue in the family; that after a time
the children would not be used so much, but that he himself would have to carry on the
work, a prophecy which has since been fulfilled.
Since that time Mr. Nation travelled extensively in his country, proclaiming the truths
of Spiritualism. He became a fearless and vigorous champion, and it was not long before
he astonished the locality by publishing a local Spiritualistic newspaper. It numbered
eight pages and was called "More Light." In days to come he sold the publication, and
planted another in a town where no such paper existed. The new journal, "The
Messenger of Life," is now in its twenty-sixth year of publication, and may be described
as the organ of New Zealand Spiritualism. Year after year Mr. Nation has both edited the
paper and set the type for each publication, whilst his wife folded up the copies when
printed, and got them ready for posting. Her death in 1923 was a great blow to the old
Spiritualist, but his convictions stood him in good stead, and up to the time of his passing
he had his hand to the plough.
The paper, "More Light," ran only for three years after Mr. Nation had relinquished
the Editorship, and ceased publication in 1890.
For eleven consecutive years Mr. Nation was President of the National Association of
New Zealand Spiritualists, and only resigned the post because of his great age. He did
not, however, sever his distinguished connection with the organisation and remained a
member of the Executive Committee. In 1927 he and his daughter-in-law toured the
whole of the South Island, lecturing on Spiritualism.
Mr. Nation celebrated his 90th birthday on March 1st
, 1930. We often overhear the
statement that Spiritualism and mediumship do not promote good health and old age.
"I've not an ache nor a pain, nor a corn on my feet," said Mr. Nation on this anniversary.
"My eyesight and general health are good, though I feel that I am near the end of my
journey." So confident was he, indeed, of this, that he had already made arrangements
for the future of his paper, "The Messenger of Life," and the book depot, which he had
established for the sale and spread of Spiritualistic literature.
258
Mr. Nation might be described as a "model Spiritualist". His life has been one of effort
and service, and constitutes a noble testimonial to the cause. Spiritualism in New Zealand
will lose much by his passing, but from the other side of life he will no doubt continue his
mission, and be a source or inspiration to the workers who fall into his place.-J.L.
==================================
How to obtain this Newsletter
The Psypioneer newsletter is at present available, complete with all back issues on
the web site http://www.woodlandway.org and we are greatly indebted to our
Australian friends for hosting and posting this Newsletter. You can obtain it free
and direct by sending an e-mail entitled “Subscribe” to psypioneersub@aol.com or
“Unsubscribe” to discontinue.
To contact Psypioneer please e-mail. psypioneer@aol.com
Paul J. Gaunt
259
