{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/psypioneer.iapsop.com\/psypioneer_v2_n12_dec_2006.pdf","mytitle":"Psypioneer V2 N12 Dec 2006","mylang":"de"}
PSYPIONEER
Founded by Leslie Price Editor Paul J. Gaunt
Volume 2, No 12; December 2006
Available as an Electronic Newsletter
Highlights of this issue:
The story of the Marylebone Spiritualist Association 1872-1928. 260
Elise Van Calcar 1822-1904. 277
Letters from Mr. J.J. Morse VIII. 279
How to obtain this Newsletter by email. 282
=========================================
The Marylebone Spiritualist Association
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
‘The Marylebone Spiritualist Association’ (M.S.A.) London, was founded in 1872 being
one of the earliest societies in London. On March 4th
1955 a contract was signed (72-
year-lease at a cost of £24,500 (1)) for new premises situated at 33, Belgrave Square,
London. S.W.1X 8QB. On February 24th
, 1960 the M.S.A., changed its name to the
‘Spiritualist Association of Great Britain’ (S.A.G.B.) see for details:
http://www.sagb.org.uk/ .
The main item in this issue of Psypioneer is the full text of the 25 paged booklet ‘The
Story of the Marylebone Spiritualist Association, Its Works & Workers’, by Leigh Hunt
which begins overleaf.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1 (+44 207
51)
260
: 020 7245 9706 (+44 207 245 9706)
THE STORY OF THE
MARYLEBONE SPIRITUALIST
ASSOCIATION,
ITS WORK & WORKERS.
(1872—1928.)
BY
LEIGH HUNT.
(Past President)
PRICE: ONE SHILLING.
MARYLEBONE SPIRITUALIST ASSOCIATION LTD.
4 & 5, TAVISTOCK SQUARE, W.C.1
COPYRIGHT, 1928
=========
INTRODUCTION
When it was suggested that the Association should publish a short narrative of its
activities during the past 56 years, the Council naturally turned to Mr. Leigh Hunt, a Past
President, than whom no one could have written with more intimate knowledge of the
facts.
With his usual willingness to serve the Association of which he and Mrs. Leigh Hunt
have been almost life-long supporters, he has freely and generously given unstinted
labour to fulfil the commission. Once more he has earned our grateful thanks, and no
other reward was either expected or desired.
It was manifestly impossible, in the short space available, even to enumerate more
than a few of the devoted and unselfish workers of the past whose efforts laid the founda-
tions upon which the Association has been built. To have attempted to do so would have
involved a lengthy chronicle not likely to have been of interest to present-day readers.
In the earlier years when, more than once, the flag of Marylebone was only kept flying
by a small family group, and when no one else could be found to conduct the Sunday
services, carry on the secretarial work and even act as printers (unpaid), the same faithful
few, relying on Spirit guidance, carried on; but at what expense and personal fatigues
such service was given, Mr. Leigh Hunt could no doubt have told us much more than he
has done.
261
Such courage and determination deserved to succeed as indeed it has done. Mr. Leigh
Hunt and those pioneer workers with whom he was connected now have the satisfaction
of seeing the Association for which they have laboured so long more than ever firmly
established, with a large and continually increasing membership.
This growing membership, however, calls for more workers, more mediums and ever
more service in the cause of Spirit against materialism and indifference. It is with the
hope that it will stimulate fresh volunteers to come forward and bear a hand in the work
that the Council commends this narrative to its readers.
August, 1928.
FOREWORD
On my way home from a Sunday evening meeting at Aeolian Hall in the early part of
this year (1928), my mind was filled with memories of the old days of the Marylebone
Association: the troubles and trials its pioneers had to encounter and overcome, the many
"ups and downs," the bitter opposition and prejudice arising from the colossal ignorance
of psychic matters, so prevalent in those early years. And then my thoughts suddenly
reverted to the meeting I had just left. Over five hundred people present, an eloquent
address followed by some remarkable clairvoyance; a service well conducted throughout;
an atmosphere of goodwill everywhere apparent. "Surely," said I to myself, "here are the
very elements of what Mr. Hannen Swaffer would call a good `story.' "
I thought no more about it at the time, but at the meeting on the following Sunday Mr.
F. W. Hawken, the present Honorary Secretary, intimated to me that that story was re-
quired. "Would I write it? The Council hoped I would," etc.In a moment of enthusiasm I
consented, and then when thinking it over-I repented, for such a story is worthy of a
better pen than mine. But, on further consideration, I did not voice my repentance, as I
am acquainted with the history of the Association more intimately, perhaps, than anyone
else can be, for it was started in my home at the suggestion of my father, Mr. C. I. Hunt.
So, soliciting my readers' goodwill in forgiving the shortcomings of a writer whose
task, although a happy one, has been rendered not a little embarrassing by the almost
imperative necessity of writing frequently in the first person singular, I venture to
endeavour to place upon record
THE STORY OF THE MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION
On February 7th, 1872, about a dozen friends met together at 16. David Street,
Marylebone (on the site of which now stands Portman Mansions), and discussed the
question of forming a Spiritualistic Society. It was then decided that a few informal
meetings be arranged, and one of these took place at Mr. James Burns's Progressive
Library, 15, Southampton Row, W.C. Mr. Burns, Editor of The Medium and Daybreak (a
spiritualistic journal long since defunct) and others, spoke at this meeting. Further
262
meetings were held at the Hall of Progress, Church Street, Marylebone. But it was not
until July 10th of the same year that the Marylebone Association came into being as an
organised body. My father had been doing most of the clerical and other work entailed
during the period between February 7th and July 10th, but from the latter date the
following officers were appointed: -President: Mr. W. Cowper; Hon. Treasurer: Mr. C. I.
Hunt; Hon. Secretary: Mr. C. White; and Hon. Librarian Mr. W. Maynard.
Meetings were held during the next few years at various halls. Sometimes the
Association went as far as Notting Hill before being able to find a meeting place, for
opposition was met with everywhere, especially from proprietors of halls, etc.-this `thing'
called Spiritualism was taboo to so many folk in those days! So great was the prejudice
then existing that even the name of the Association had to be changed (unofficially, of
course) at times, so that a hall might be hired. (It was for a considerable period known as
"The Spiritual Evidence Society.") One day, however-it was in 1879-after a long period
of uphill work and intermittent and oft-times noisy meetings,
QUEBEC HALL, GREAT QUEBEC STREET, MARYLEBONE,
was obtained, and here took place many quite notable meetings, and some remarkable
seances with several then well-known physical mediums, including Mr. Cecil Husk, Mr.
and Mrs. Frank Herne and Mr. Charles Williams.
Mr. William Towns, the celebrated water-diviner of after years, was conspicuously
successful at this hall as a clairvoyant and psychometrist. He was also a good physical
medium, and did much other useful propaganda work.
Despite the many troubles and other set-backs-the Materialists on the one hand and
bigoted Churchmen on the other had both to be put up with, and at times tackled in a very
real sense of that word-the work went steadily on. The year 1886, however, found the
Association depleted in numbers; Quebec Hall had to be vacated, money was scarce and
the workers few. Nevertheless, encouraged by our unseen friends, my father and one or
two other members did not despair, and during the next few years, meetings were held in
a carpenter's workshop in Harcourt Street, Marylebone. (This place had to be more or less
cleared for each meeting, and an audience of forty was a `crowded house!') In 1889 there
was still a lack of active workers and the membership roll had only about 30 names upon
it. "What can be done?" said my father to the few workers assembled at tea at his
residence, one afternoon. At the suggestion of the ladies then present, (Mrs. Bell, Mrs.
Brinkley, and my mother) a tea meeting was arranged, and an encouraging gathering
resulted. More tea meetings, etc., took place, and the good work began to progress again.
Tea meetings were popular in those days!
It is necessary here to state that during the early years of the Association the names of
several friends who spoke from its platform, and who occupied prominent posts as
workers, are not mentioned in my father's diaries (from which books I have obtained
much needed information). From personal knowledge, I can say that such names were
often left unrecorded by the special desire of those concerned, for, to be then known as a
263
Spiritualist was to risk one's business, as well as social, position. Even notes of
proceedings in Committee, etc., of those times were not kept for any period beyond what
was absolutely necessary. But from 1890 things were a little better in this respect.
Then came upon the scene those great friends of the Cause, Mr. and Mrs. Thomas
Everitt.
The remarkable mediumship of Mrs. Everitt, who so fully and freely gave numerous
seances to very many inquirers, brought a great acquisition of new members. Mr. W. T.
Cooper, whose advent as a worker dates from this time (1890), now joined with Mr. and
Mrs. Everitt and other friends, with the result that the movement in Marylebone was
placed upon an established footing, and its successful progress was more than ever
apparent.
Mr. Charles White having retired from the post of Hon. Secretary-in 1891, Mr. W. T.
Cooper took up the work temporarily in this connection. Shortly afterwards I was elected
to that office, and I look back upon the thirteen years which followed with feelings of
great satisfaction that I was privileged to work throughout that time as Hon. Secretary,
with Mr. Everitt as President, Mr. W. T. Cooper (who was then Vice-President), and the
many other workers who so nobly and unflinchingly supported the Association during
those years. Indeed, I now more than ever realise that during my thirty years of active
work in the Association, my lot was cast in happy places in being associated with so
many splendid workers. But to continue:-
In November, 1891, a place which had formerly been a Police Court, and which was at
the rear of a shop in High Street, Marylebone, was obtained. After several weeks-day and
night-spent in refitting and redecorating (Mr. Cooper and his son, Harry, did most of the
work), this Hall was opened by Miss Florence Marryat, the well-known novelist. The
occasion is for ever stamped upon the memories of those present on that Sunday evening
(December 20th, 1891). The Hall was crowded, the enthusiasm was great, and Miss
Marryat's eloquent address held the audience enthralled throughout. She took for her text
the words from the 55th Chapter of Isaiah: "Ho! Everyone that thirsteth," and for nearly
an hour her hearers were treated to an exposition of Spiritualism which left a deep and
lasting impression upon their minds. It was a splendid example of the propaganda spirit
which was so marked in all the utterances of this great worker for Spiritualism.
The Association had now made another decided step forward towards that success
which had been so repeatedly prophesied by its unseen helpers.
The recorder must here be briefer than he wishes; many are the incidents that could be
recalled which would serve to convey to the reader some idea of the circumstances in
which the work had to be carried on for the next three years at the Hall in High Street.
But if this were done, it is felt that continuity of the history might suffer, and so,
relegating some of these incidents to the closing pages of this `story,' I will now carry my
readers to the year 1894 when
264
CAVENDISH ROOMS, 51, MORTIMER STREET, W. were hired.
Thanks largely to an anonymous donor of fifty pounds, this commodious meeting
place was secured, and on Sunday evening, September 30th, 1894, the world-famous
Spiritualist Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, delivered the opening address. The Hall was so
crowded that there was scarcely room enough left for Mrs. Britten on the platform. Her
address on the progress of Modern Spiritualism was one of great merit and interest,
although she was then a lady much advanced in years.
The Association now entered upon a long period of activity and usefulness. Meetings
were held every Sunday evening in the main Hall, and, during the week, in the room
beneath, whereat several social gatherings also took place. The best speakers and
mediums from town and country were obtained, membership increased, and, despite the
rancour shewn by certain sections of the Press and Public, the careful management by the
Council, and the co-operation of members and friends resulted in the Association
obtaining a position which placed it on a footing with the most successful Spiritualist
societies then existent. Indeed, it is not too much to say that the Marylebone Association
can look back upon the seventeen years' tenancy of Cavendish Rooms as the period when
its work was so consolidated and enhanced that it came to rank as one of the most
prominent centres of activity in the whole movement of Spiritualism-a position which has
ever since been so worthily maintained.
It was during-the occupancy of Cavendish Rooms that the Association was registered
under the Companies Acts, as a Limited Company-Limited by Guarantee, and not having
a Capital divided into Shares, therefore not as a profit-making concern. By this
registration the Association became recognised by Law as a corporate body. Anyone
acquainted with such matters will realise the amount of work which this registration
entailed.
In 1912 Cavendish Rooms had to be vacated, as the premises were shortly coming
down to make room for the offices, etc., which now occupy this site. The Sunday
meetings were therefore transferred to Shearn's Restaurant, Tottenham Court Road, for
just over a year, and week-night meetings to Percy Hall, Percy Street, W. After this, for
another year, the Association found an abiding place at The Arts Centre, Mortimer Street,
W. (now known as Mortimer Halls), where both Sunday and week-night meetings were
held. Additional week-night meetings took place at this time in a basement room in
Mortimer Street, W., and the Delphic Club, then in Jermyn Street, W., was also hired for
meetings as opportunities offered.
In 1914, Steinway Hall was engaged for the Sunday Evening meetings, but after a year
of successful work, the people holding Sunday morning meetings there required it for
evening meetings as well, so once again "fresh woods and pastures new” had to be
sought.
A Hall in the neighbourhood of Paddington Street, W., became the next place of
meeting, but a clergyman connected with the people from whom the hall was hired,
265
arrived just before the third meeting (on October 17th, 1915) and, acting in a decidedly
vehement and precipitate manner, prohibited this and any subsequent meetings of the
Association from being held at this Hall! Mr. Robert King, who was to have been the
speaker for that evening, will doubtless remember this lively episode; certainly the
workers then present will not easily forget it! Thereby hangs a tale which the then
Honorary Secretary, perhaps, could best tell, but this record must leave it at that.
The situation thus created caused a break in the holding of consecutive Sunday
meetings of the Association-a thing which had not happened for many years; it was,
however, of short duration, for a fortnight later (October 31 st) the Sunday meetings were
resumed-this time at a Hall at 77, New Oxford Street, where week-night meetings had
already been held.
The work was now getting more than ever difficult; it was War time, helpers were few
and anxieties many, but the splendid efforts of the Honorary Secretary (he does not wish
his name recorded), coupled with those of other zealous sup- porters, brought satisfactory
results. After a year's labour at 77, New Oxford Street, Steinway Hall was once again
obtained for Sunday meetings, and on November 5th, 1916, the Services were resumed
there, a memorable address by the inspirers of Mr. J. J. Morse marking the opening
meeting.
For five more years the Association continued its Sunday meetings at this Hall-years
marked by a steady increase in all branches of the work.
During this period week-night meetings were held at Denison House, Vauxhall Bridge
Road, and one or two other places, but rooms were subsequently procured at Nos. 4 and
5, Tavistock Square, whereat the ever-increasing official and clerical work of the
Association is now carried on, and where an excellent Institute and Library for members
is already well established. The week-night meetings, seances, etc., in fact all the various
activities except the Sunday meetings, are held at this address, which is the Registered
Office of the Association.
After the five years' work at Steinway Hall already referred to, a great forward move
was made; the Aeolian Hall, New Bond Street, was taken for the Sunday services, and on
September 25th, 1921, the first meeting at this central and well-appointed Hall was held.
Mrs. M. H. Wallis was the speaker and an impressive discourse was delivered by this
distinguished inspirational medium. From that date up to the present time the meetings
have continued with unabating success. The best speakers and mediums available are
engaged for the platform and a splendid company of honorary workers are always at hand
to carry out the manifold duties entailed, with the result that the popularity of these
meetings has so increased that scarcely a Sunday passes without this commodious Hall
being filled to its utmost capacity.
On the death of Mr. W. T. Cooper in January, 1920, I was elected President, but
retired through ill-health in the following July, after which Mr. George Craze became
President. Mr. Craze had already done yeoman service as Honorary Secretary for
266
upwards of three years. Like former secretaries he was happy in having some most
efficient co-workers; his wife, Mrs. Alice Craze, to whom special reference is made
elsewhere in this record, was one of these. Mr. Edwin Haviland will long be remembered
as amongst the ablest and most enthusiastic workers at this time. Mr. Haviland passed
away in January, 1920, as did also Mr. A. Clegg, who was organist at the Steinway Hall
meetings.
Mr. Clegg was succeeded by Captain F. C. E. Dimmick as organist, who, in addition
to much other work for the Association, has accomplished the difficult task of compiling
a Hymn Book, Carols of Spiritual Life, which is now in regular use at the services of the
Association at Aeolian Hall, and is also used by kindred societies. Added to this work,
Captain Dimmick has also compiled Musical Settings to these hymns (several of which
are his own composition), and thus has completed a most able and meritorious effort that
has met with the full measure of appreciation it so eminently deserves.
As President, Mr. Craze added to his self-denying labours that efficient service which
has done so much to promote the success of the work during recent years. His ability
skewed itself not only on the platform, but in the general government of the Association.
He concluded his first term of office as President in 1924, (the President is now
elected for a term of three years). In the following year Mrs. Alice Craze was elected
President, but, on account of her severe illness, was seldom able to officiate. Mr. Craze
officiated on her behalf. On the death of Mrs. Craze, Mr. Craze was unanimously elected
President for a further term of three years. Surely the best tribute to his able leadership is
the fact that throughout his two terms of office, the increasing success of the Association
in every branch of its work, was most marked.
And now (May, 1928) Mr. Tom Groom, who succeeds Mr. Craze as President, brings
to that office an experience of many years of active public work, and, as an ardent
Spiritualist, he enjoys the confidence and comradeship of all with whom he is associated.
During the first years of Mr. Craze's presidency, Mr. Fred Brittain was Honorary
Secretary. Mr. Brittain brought to his work an experience of the Spiritualist movement
which enabled him not only to discharge the special duties of his office in a most efficient
manner, but also earned for him the grateful appreciation of all friends for his ever-ready
advice and assistance.
It was during Mr. Brittain's time as Hon. Secretary that the Institute at 4 and 5,
Tavistock Square, became firmly established. The promoter of the Institute was Mrs.
Alice Craze. Enthusiastic support and assistance were given to Mrs. Craze in this new
venture, by her husband and the many workers concerned, amongst whom were Mrs.
Fisher, Mr. and Mrs. Brittain and Mr. and Mrs. Waller (Mr. Waller was a Vice-President
of the Association.)
It is particularly worthy of note that the M.S.A. is the parent of many other societies,
both within the Metropolis, the environs of London, and also farther afield. Marylebone
267
members who from time to time have removed to other parts, have in several instances,
started societies in their particular districts, and some of these organisations are now
powers in the Spiritualistic world.
The Association now occupies the proud position of not only being one of the oldest
societies in Great Britain, but also one of the best known.
Visitors from the Continent, from our dominions overseas, indeed from most parts of
the globe, have rendered service from its platforms. And stalwarts of Spiritualism, such
as Dr. J. M. Peebles, Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, Mr. W. J. Colville, Dr. Ellis Powell,
etc., not to mention the many other distinguished Spiritualists of our own country, have
spoken at the meetings in times past. Coming to the present day, such names as those of
the Duchess of Hamilton and Brandon, Miss Lind-af-Hageby, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle
(who is an Honorary Vice-President of the Association), the Reverend G. Vale Owen,
Mr. Hannen Swaffer and Mr. Ernest Hunt, will readily occur to readers of this record as
being amongst the many prominent Spiritualists who deliver addresses at Aeolian Hall
from time to time.
I venture here to express the hope that every reader who is not already a supporter of
the M.S.A. will speedily become one and thus help on the good work which has been so
remarkably sustained and furthered for upwards of half a century.
With what satisfaction must the workers of the past look upon the fruits of their
labours, and with what increasing thankfulness can the workers of the present time look
upon the continued success of their untiring and unselfish efforts to promote the truths
they love so well.
-------------------------------
It is felt that no record of this kind would be in any way complete without special
mention being made of at least a few of the most conspicuous workers who in times past
toiled so unremittingly for the welfare of Spiritualism in Marylebone. Any attempt at an
exhaustive treatment of this portion of the story is impossible, but the following are
amongst the many workers who have `made history' by their successful efforts to
promote what was in their time a most unpopular cause, a cause which called for, and
received at their hands, a plenitude of self-denying work of which any cause might well
be proud.
The transition to the higher life of MR. THOMAS EVERITT on August 5th, 1905
(aged 81), removed from the ranks of Spiritualism one of the greatest of its many
supporters, and the Marylebone Association-then at Cavendish Rooms will ever
remember his splendid work during the sixteen years he was President. Although well
advanced in years, Mr. Everitt was active in every branch of the work. He not only
presided at all meetings, carrying out in full the duties of his office, but, assisted by the
remarkable mediumship of Mrs. Everitt, he was the means by which the Association was
enabled to obtain the support of many people whose services in the social as well as the
268
religious sections of the work were of the greatest benefit at the time, and the financial
side correspondingly benefitted. Mrs. Everitt gave innumerable seances with Mr. Everitt
as leader, and from these came very many converts to Spiritualism who became members
of the Marylebone Association, and who from time to time augmented the funds by
donations which `saved the situation' when money was short and liabilities were many.
[The present writer attended over a hundred seances with Mrs. Everitt, who always gave
her services. without fee or recompense, and he can testify that in an experience
extending over forty years, he has never witnessed more astounding and convincing
phenomena than those which occurred in the presence of this lady.]
MR. W. T. COOPER followed Mr. Everitt as President after being Senior Vice-
President throughout Mr. Everitt's term of office. Such work as Mr. Cooper's, no pen-
least of all my own-could record in any adequate fashion. As President he was the life
and soul of the Association. He took an active part in all the work with an ability and self-
effacement which won for him the admiration and friendship of his fellow-workers, and
the respect of all with whom he came into contact. He was President for fifteen years.
Mr. W. T. Cooper kept practically open house at his residence for members and
friends of the Association for over twenty years. The official work was there carried on;
there also a well-trained choir, with Mrs. C. Amy Cooper as choirmistress, met weekly
for several years, and numbers of seances were held there. Mr. Cooper's wonderful work
in these directions alone went far in placing the cause in Marylebone upon a sound
financial as well as social basis throughout this long period.
MRS. LEIGH HUNT (daughter of Mr. W. T. Cooper) held the post of Librarian for
eighteen years. The recorder must here be excused from fully expressing his estimation of
Mrs. Hunt's work-it is embarrassing enough to have to `personalise,' as he has been bound
to do, in endeavouring to present a faithful record of the progress of Spiritualism in
Marylebone-but it is necessary to say that Mrs. Hunt not only won the admiration of all
concerned by her official work, but, by her other efforts, gained very many adherents to
the Cause she served (and is still serving) so well.
MR. STANLEY J. WATTS followed myself as Hon. Secretary in 1901, and for eight
years he laboured with unceasing success in this capacity. He was ably assisted by his
wife, Mrs. R. E. M. Watts, and the good work accomplished by these friends of the Cause
is still fresh in the memory of many Spiritualists. Mr. and Mrs. Watts took over the
proprietorship of Florence House Hotel, Osnaburgh Street, N.W., from Mr. and Mrs.
Morse in 1902, and both there, and afterwards at Hunstanton House, Endsleigh Gardens,
W.C., they were the means of giving many an impetus to the work in Marylebone.
The work of MR. W. H. LORD as Hon. Treasurer during the latter part of Mr.
Cooper's Presidency was most conspicuous, not only for the marked business ability
shewn by him, but also by his earnestness of purpose.
MR. GEORGE SPRIGGS, who passed to spirit life in 1912, and whose remarkable
mediumship forms part of the history of Modern Spiritualism, was an enthusiastic worker
269
for the Association for many years. As Vice-President he assisted in conducting the
meetings at Cavendish Rooms. His work under the guidance of his spirit doctor (Dr.
Jenkins) was alone of very great value to Marylebone friends, as it was to all who, from
near and far, sought his aid, which was always freely given. His brother, MR. FRED
SPRIGGS, also assisted as Vice-President for several years.
Miss ROWAN VINCENT'S work for Marylebone was as able as it was welcome. Her
mediumistic gifts were ever at the call of the Association, and for several years she gave
addresses and clairvoyance at Cavendish Rooms without fee or recompense.
MR., MRS. and Miss FLORENCE MORSE also did excellent service for Marylebone
Spiritualism in its earlier years. The addresses given through the late Mr. J. J. Morse at
Cavendish Rooms and Steinway Hall rank high amongst the most brilliant and useful
discourses ever given from a Spiritualist platform-I had almost written from any platform,
for the noble teachings, coupled with fluent utterance and erudite knowledge which
characterised these lectures, will long be remembered. Several of the hundreds of lectures
so delivered have been placed on record by Mr. David Gow, the present able editor of
Light, whose interest in the Marylebone Association has ever earned for him the grateful
appreciation of its workers. (How many Spiritualists the world over can also bear
testimony to Mr. Gow's ever ready help and advice? Their number is legion.)
For many years the Association had the services of MR. E. W. and MRS. M. H.
WALLIS, two workers for Spiritualism who by their platform and literary efforts have
gained the esteem and appreciation of Spiritualists throughout the world. Mrs. Wallis's
work, both as speaker and clairvoyant, stands out with that of her husband as amongst the
most distinguished services which the Association has received from its many supporters
in this connection.
Mr. Wallis passed away in 1914. Mrs. Wallis, after over fifty years of platform work,
has now retired, but her interest in the Cause she loves continues unabated. She has the
affection and respect of all who know her, amongst whom are numerous Marylebone
workers.
MR. A. J. SUTTON, with his wife, who was a daughter of Mrs. Everitt, were helpers
to which the Association were much indebted in the years gone by.
The trance addresses of MR. G. H. BIBBINGS at Cavendish Rooms, and those of
MR. PERCY R. STREET, are also specially worthy of note.
Amongst the most conspicuous of the many clairvoyant platform workers in the early
years of the Association were MISS S. W. McCREADIE and Mr. A. VOUT PETERS.
Miss McCreadie, who passed to spirit life on April 21st, 1927, was for upwards of
thirty years closely identified with the work in Marylebone, and throughout this long
period her mediumship gained very many adherents to the cause at large. Her platform
work alone, as clairvoyant, was one of the chief mainstays of the Association, particularly
270
at Cavendish Rooms and Steinway Hall. The many striking evidences of spirit return
given at the Sunday meetings by this distinguished medium and good friend of the
Association are still fresh in the memories of her numerous coworkers in the movement
which she so faithfully served and so fittingly adorned.
Mr. Peters is still with us and is as able and energetic as ever, and his remarkable work
both as speaker and clairvoyant is too well known to need any lengthy reference here. His
interest in the Marylebone Association dates from his first appearance on Cavendish
Rooms platform-now over thirty years ago. I well remember how encouraging to him was
his success on that occasion (June 5th, 1898), and how happy we all felt at meeting with
such a splendid medium as our loyal friend and co-worker speedily proved himself to be.
MRS. E. A. CANNOCK, MRS. ANNIE BRITTAIN, MRS. MARY DAVIES and
MRS. PLACE VEARY were also amongst the several clairvoyant mediums to whom the
Marylebone Association are much indebted for services in the past, not to mention
several others who visited London from the provinces at frequent intervals.
MR. HORACE LEAF can remember some early Marylebone meetings whereat his
addresses and his mediumship were as keenly appreciated as is the case to-day. In this
connection it is also pleasing to record that Mrs. Cannock, Mrs. Brittain and Miss
Florence Morse are still with us, engaged as much as ever in the work which their efforts
continue to enhance.
Nor can the valuable assistance in the general work of the Association at Cavendish
Rooms and Steinway Hall of such friends as Mrs. Ada Atkinson, Mrs. Bell, Mrs.
Brinkley, Miss Cockram, Mrs. Tregale, Mr. W. S. Doyle, Mr. Henry Hawkins, and that of
many others too numerous to mention here, be easily forgotten.
Coming to more recent years, MRS. ALICE CRAZE'S work for the Association was
indeed meritorious. Her mediumistic gifts alone gained a great number of new members.
She never spared herself in all her varied activities. Freely and fully did this splendid
worker give of her best to all with whom she came into contact-and they were many. She
worked untiringly for the Institute on week-days, and every Sunday found her
discharging onerous duties at the meetings.
Right up to the time of her severe illness which ended in her translation to the higher
life on January 3rd, 1925, Mrs. Craze's enthusiasm for the Cause she loved so well was
only equalled by her eagerness to help all who sought her aid. She was elected President
shortly before her death as an additional indication of the esteem in which she was held.
At this later period the self-denying work of MRS. FISHER as Assistant Secretary-
particularly in connection with the then newly formed Institute at 4, Tavistock Square-
calls also for special mention. With Mrs. Alice Craze and the other workers, she was
chiefly instrumental in placing the Institute on a sound financial and social basis. Mrs.
Fisher added to her business capabilities a tactfulness and discretion which, while never
dimming her enthusiasm, enabled her to carry out her duties in a manner that earned for
271
her the friendship and goodwill of her fellow-workers; and when, through change of
residence, she was compelled to relinquish her work (as were also Mr. and Mrs. Waller),
the Association keenly felt the loss of such valuable aid.
The present workers, with becoming modesty, desire that if any appreciation of their
labours be deemed necessary, it had better be left to future chroniclers to record. The
present writer therefore consoles himself with the knowledge that the success they have
already achieved is so apparent as to constitute a special record of itself. Mention must be
made, however, of Mr. F. W. Hawken, who, as Hon. Secretary, is not only a remarkably
able and distinguished successor to those who in the past have held the position he now
occupies, but is one whose almost incomparable efforts have gained for him a name
honoured throughout the movement. He is splendidly supported by officers and a Council
whose names I append: -
MR. Tom Groom, President. Mr. A. W. Challis, Treasurer. Mr. G. Craze. Capt. F. C. E.
Dimmick, Vice-President, Organist. Mr. F. W. Hawken, Vice-President, General
Secretary. Mrs. Hawken. Mrs. V. Lennox Kay, Editor of "Service." Mrs. C. Lawrance,
Assistant Treasurer. Capt. C. Mills. Dr. J. V. Rees Roberts. Mrs. Saunders. Mr. H.
Stevens. Mr. S. Treloar, Members' Secretary. Mrs. Treloar. Mr. A. Timbrell.
This record can but make bare mention of the fact that in early years (as is the case to-
day) the many social gatherings, concerts and similar meetings held from time to time
played a most important part in the success of the whole work of the Association. The
many friends who assisted in these connections-their names are far too numerous to
record here-gained the lasting gratitude of all concerned for their splendid efforts which
contributed so much to the well-being of the Cause in Marylebone.
The Monthly Leaflet, "Service" constitutes a record of all the activities of the
Association, with also notices of forthcoming events, etc. This little paper, so ably edited
in an honorary capacity by Mrs. Lennox Kay, is issued free of charge, and its interesting
contents are well calculated to arrest the attention of even the most casual inquirer; it is
an excellent means of bringing the work of the Association before the public from month
to month, and is indeed of great assistance to the Association in its efforts to fittingly
propagate the truths of Spiritualism.
----------------------------------------
It will be readily understood that during such a long period as this little history covers,
there were many incidents which cannot easily be forgotten. The few related below will, I
think, help also to suggest some of the difficulties and drawbacks of the time in which
each occurred.
A HUMOROUS INTERLUDE.
In 1891, when Miss Florence Marryat opened the Hall in High Street, so crowded was
the passage leading to the Hall that Miss Marryat herself could hardly get in. With great
272
good humour she managed to do this, with the Hon. Secretary trying hard-and failing-to
pilot her through the narrow passage. Miss Marryat's remark when she got in was
indicative of her genial disposition. "Well, I got away from the Hunt and here I am, but
there is no `death.'" I felt bound to add "nor any Fox present" (referring, of course, to the
Fox sisters of Hydesville), a point which Miss Marryat quickly took.
THE SEARCH FOR HALLS.
Many a tale could be told of the difficulty of obtaining halls or, for the matter of that,
even a single room in which to hold meetings. For days at a time did some of the workers
tramp London in the hope of finding suitable accommodation, and often, when a likely
place was found, the mere mention of the word "psychic" finished the negotiations. To
say "Spiritualism" was to get short shrift indeed.
"NO SPOOKS FOR ME."
On one occasion Mr. Cooper and myself had come across what looked like a suitable
hall. In an unguarded moment I let fall that blessed word "Spiritualism." That was
enough! The proprietor overheard me. "Spirits, is it?" said he, "No spooks for me! I can't
have any ghosts here." And so we had to tramp it once again. The getting of "spirits,
spooks, and ghosts thrust at one in such quick time, indelibly stamped this little incident
on my memory.
-------------------------------------
That is only one example out of many that could be given of the state of mind of the
public at large in the early' nineties. Even now such prejudice is not entirely dead, as
present workers can testify. Yet what an advance has been made! The great meetings
recently held at the Albert Hall and also at the Queen's Hall bear eloquent witness of the
changed attitude of the public mind. (What strenuous work these meetings entailed!)
A DOGGEREL DIVERSION.
Anything like detailed portrayal of the conditions in which the work sometimes had to
be carried on in early years has not been attempted in this record. `Lively' though such
conditions were, at certain times, any account of them might become dull enough to dim
their importance in the eyes of the reader who had not experienced them. But to give
some idea of the surroundings of the hall in High Street, Marylebone, during the years
1891 to 1894, the following doggerel sent to a Mr. Petersilea who gave readings, etc.,
thereat, is here inserted-with due apologies.
The Hall is a good one, but the sheeps' heads look queer In the shop by the side, Mr.
Petersilea!
There's pork and there's sausages ready to fry,
And a salesman outside with his sweet "buy and buy!"
The passage is long and is blood-stained and greasy,
273
The odour is strong, but don't be uneasy,
We use Sanitas, that great disinfectant.
If the management's good you may be expectant,
When you hire our small Hall, it will pay you right well.
You won't mind the sheeps' heads, the pork or the smell!
Several other places of meeting had similar uncongenial surroundings, but they had
best be left to the imagination of the reader after recovery from the effects of the
`effusion' just quoted. I must add, however, that the conditions portrayed in those lines
were correct in every particular.
ALMOST A CATASTROPHE.
Prior to the opening of the Hall just referred to there was a good deal of clerical
"hustle" work that had to be done; for, only five days before, it was found that the place
could be got ready earlier than at first anticipated. So, after having obtained Miss
Marryat's promise to attend, I printed the handbills on my own private printing press, and
Mr. J. J. Smith, our then Hon. Treasurer, agreed to copy a circular letter to members, etc.,
on a duplicating machine. I had finished the handbills at a late hour one evening when in
came Mr. Smith with a `proof' of the letter. He had reversed the inking process so that the
paper was black and the writing white! There was nothing for it but to set to work then
and there and print the circular letter myself. I completed the job by 3 o'clock on the
following morning! However, all went well after this, and the opening of the Hall was, as
already recorded, a pronounced success.
----------------------------------------
A "STICKY" INCIDENT.
The week before the first meeting at Cavendish Rooms (September, 1894) Mr. Harry
Cooper and myself went about Marylebone one evening, and stuck posters announcing
the meeting, on any hoarding or wall space we could. Harry did the "sticking up," and I
"scouted" so as to give warning when any policeman came in sight! It was an exciting
time, as the reader may imagine, but it saved expense and was a good advertisement.
AN EMBARRASSING VENTURE.
One Sunday meeting at Cavendish Rooms will not easily be forgotten by the workers
of that period.
A child of thirteen had been brought to London by Mr. Everitt, who had heard her give
remarkable clairvoyance in the Provinces, and it had been arranged for her to give
clairvoyance on two successive Sundays. At the first meeting it was all too apparent that
274
her language and method of giving descriptions was lamentably unsuited to a London
audience. During her first description she gave a titled lady much detail about her general
health, but this advice (and much other to various people present) was given in such well-
rustic language and accompanied by so many deplorable platform mannerisms that, on
the following day, we paid her fees and expenses, and those of her mother, who had aided
(?) her on the platform, and sent her back home.
This child had a wonderful gift of clairvoyance, but without going into further detail
here-the Association never risked such a contretemps again!
However, out of this ordeal came great good, for Miss Rowan Vincent, who had
hitherto refused to display her remarkable gifts from the public platform, stepped into the
breach, and on the following Sunday her clairvoyance was indeed a convincing and
educational effort. Miss Vincent was persuaded to continue her public work, and thus it
came to pass that the Marylebone Association was privileged in having the services of
this beloved and able worker on many later occasions.
----------------------------------------------
And so I could go on to relate many other incidents which marked the different
periods of stress and strain passed through by the "stalwarts of Marylebone," as Mr.
David Gow has several times, in the pages of Light, called the old workers. But I must
specially withhold my pen in this connection, for many of the incidents might appear too
personal for narration here, yet, as the most important incident of all was the founding of
the Association, and as my father was
THE FIRST MEMBER AND WORKER,
I feel that before concluding this record I must mention that his determined and sustained
work from 1872 up to a few years before his death in 1906, was indeed a great asset to
the Cause in Marylebone. My mother and family energetically assisted him, particularly
during the first ten years, when workers were few and it meant almost social ostracism to
be known as a Spiritualist.
He first became a Spiritualist in 1870. He was a Parish Officer, respected and
esteemed for his mental acumen, his judgment and his fearless advocacy of what he
deemed the true point of view in all the work that fell to his lot to perform. So that it can
be readily understood his conversion to Spiritualism from blank Materialism was not an
easy matter. But once convinced, his grim determination and, I must add, ability,
considerably helped the Association through years of anxiety, of disappointment, and of
uphill work, the like of which Spiritualists of the present day can hardly imagine.
And when, in his 83rd year, he passed to the Higher Life, it was in the full
consciousness that his work had not been in vain. A week before his transition-he passed
on in his sleep-he said to me, "I'll come to you from the other side and help on the good
work." He has, oftentimes.
275
And now the story is-no-not concluded, for it is being continued in the glorious work
which the Marylebone Association is at the present time carrying out.
One word in conclusion.
The Marylebone workers never forget that spirit people are real human beings like
themselves, and so, while they fully realise that becoming reverence is due to the arisen
friends who are in higher estate, they treat these friends also as active participators in the
great work of propagating the truths of Spiritualism, and not, as seems to be the case too
often to-day, as some kind of entities (or emanations!) that are blindly drawn to earth by
so-called scientific methods, and who can be dismissed at will by their self-styled
investigators.
-----------------------------------------------
"Floreat Marylebone."
-----------------------------------------------
1) This information has been taken from 'One Hundred Years Of spiritualism' by Roy
Stemman, published by 'The Spiritualist Association of Great Britain' in 1972.
Incidentally this book was written to commemorate the centenary of the M.S.A.-
S.A.G.B.
I have printed below the full quote; this is printed with the permission of its author Roy
Stemman:
Since the late 1940s its Council had been searching for new premises after it was learned
that the British Museum needed their Russell Square property as an extension.
Eventually, after many visits to buildings that proved unsuitable or were taken by other
buyers before the MSA's decision was reached, the Association learned that 33 Belgrave
Square was on the market. They viewed it in December, 1954, and in January made a
successful £24,500 offer for a 72-year-lease. The contract was signed on March 4, 1955,
and it was described in "Service" as "the biggest event in the 83 years history of our
Association". On August 20, the big day arrived and Air Chief Marshal Lord Dowding
declared the magnificent building open. Lord Dowding also took part in one of a number
of "At Homes" in order to raise money for the MSA's new headquarters. Roy Stemman.
Roy Stemman has a new website: Paranormal Review:
http://www.paranormalreview.com/
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
In next month’s issue of Psypioneer ( January 2007) our attention will be focused on the
president (1890-1905) of the ‘The Marylebone Spiritualist Association’ Mr. Thomas
Everitt, who with his wife contributed greatly to the early growth of Spiritualist societies
in London.
276
Early Spiritualism in Holland
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Elise Van Calcar
1822-1904
Firstly some back ground history of Spiritualism in Holland,
much of this information has been summarized from Emma Hardinge Britten’s,
‘Nineteenth Century Miracles’ ( 1883).
Spiritualism was introduced to Holland by Mr. J. N. T. Marthese. A Dutchman by birth,
Marthese brought with him D.D. Home circa 1858. After Home’s departure from The
Hague, circles were formed, mediums developed, and associations began establishing
themselves. One such society was formed by Major J Revius, a friend of Marthese and
called ‘Oromase’ (or Ormuzd (1)). Many distinguished persons made up its membership
and the society was inaugurated at The Hague on December 2nd
1859. The association
was for the study of the phenomena and the laws of their production and no attempt was
made to deal with religion. Revius was president until his death in 1871. On February
25th 1876, ‘The Oromase Society’ celebrated its three hundredth meeting. At this time
‘Oromase’ held a splendid library of the principal works on Spiritualism in different
languages, complete with a collection of English, American, French, German etc,
journals devoted to Spiritualism, Mesmerism and Psychology.
Another of the numerous Dutch societies was started in 1869 in Amsterdam and called
‘Veritas.’ With much of the phenomena produced in Holland being of the physical nature,
with the exception of materialisations, ‘Veritas’ cultivated trance speaking and
communication with spirits through writing mediums; however, unlike ‘Oromase’ their
doctrines advocated re-incarnation as taught by Allan Kardec, whereas ‘Oromase’
members were more concerned with scientific and inductive methods which of course
caused a diversity of opinion.
The focus of this short article however, is on Madame Elise Van Calcar, who chiefly
defends the study of Spiritualism on biblical and religious grounds. Emma Hardinge
Britten in her ‘Nineteenth Century Miracles’ (1883) p.347 draws our attention to this
lady:-
Madame Elise Von Calcar (2), well-known and highly esteemed throughout Holland, not
only for her literary labours, but also for the high and spotless reputation which she has
so fearlessly devoted to the service of Spiritualism.
This lady, whose name and fame is calculated to shed lustre on any cause, has given
her best endowments for many years to Spiritualism. One of her ablest novels has
embodied the current ideas of the movement in terse yet eloquent language, and in the
shape of a fictional work, entitled, in translation, " Children of the Age," she has enlisted
the minds of her readers in the interests of Spiritualism far more forcibly than she could
have done by any abstract essays.
277
Another, and a still more valuable contribution to the literature of Spiritualism, is the
well-known journal conducted by Madame Von Calcar, namely, a monthly organ (large
book size) of over thirty-two pages, called "Op de Grenzen van twee Werelden," "On the
Boundaries of Two Worlds."
This fine periodical has been published during the five past years, and its completed
volumes contain a mass of literature of the most important character, including
descriptions of Spiritual manifestations in every country of the earth. The seers of every
age, from Apollonius of Tyana to Andrew Jackson Davis; from Hermes Trismegistus to
Jacob the Zouave, are described with graphic force and pleasing ideality. This lady's
residence too on Willemstraat, the Hague, where with her husband she receives the best
literary and Spiritualistic society of the day, forms a rallying point for those in sympathy
with her peculiar views, and promotes that friction of mind with mind, which is so
valuable a result of well organized social reunions.
An interesting piece on this lady printed in full below, is taken from LIGHT January 14,
1922 page 21:-
"A PIONEER OF SPIRITUALISM IN
HOLLAND."
----------------------
A NOTE ON MME. ELISE VAN CALCAR
Under this title we briefly noticed in LIGHT of the 10th ult., a big volume in Dutch
giving a very full account of the life and work of Mine. Elise van Calcar-Schiotling -a
remarkable woman who, in the course of her long and active career, did much to
familiarise her countrymen with the facts and philosophy of Spiritualism. Being ignorant
of Dutch we were compelled to rely on a friend who possesses some acquaintance with
the language for a general idea of the contents of the work. The author Mr. J. H.
Sikemeier, has, however, since kindly furnished us with further interesting particulars
from which we learn that Mme. van Calcar was a prominent supporter by voice and pen
of the women's rights movement in Holland, and a great advocate of educational reform,
the introduction of the Froebel method of education into the children's schools of the
country being largely due to her untiring efforts. Her clear intelligence and lofty
character eminently fitted her to undertake an unbiassed investigation of the phenomena
of Spiritualism.
In her youth she had studied Lavater, Jung-stilling, Kerner, Oettinger and Oberlin.
Frederica Hauffe, the "seeress of Prevorst," made a deep impression on her. The year
1858 found her corresponding on psychical phenomena with theologians, amongst them
Dr. Ramvenhoff, afterwards Professor at Leyden University, who expressed the opinion
that " later on a new field of study will be opened for science by this study." In the same
year she first met D. D. Home, and in 1873 she brought the subject prominently before
278
the public in her fine novel, "Children of the Age," in which she described the light and
shadow sides of Occultism.
Henry Slade, the slate-writing medium, gave a successful seance at her residence at
the Hague. In 1877 she started her monthly paper "On the Borders of Two Worlds,"
which was continued to her death in 1904. She was strongly hostile to the doctrine of
reincarnation, and consequently rejected the theosophical system of Mine. Blavatsky.
Lack of understanding of the mediumistic gift in humanity, she looked upon as the
principal cause of the rise of different religious sects, especially of the Irvingites, the
voices of spirits being ignorantly regarded as the voice of God and therefore infallible. At
the same time she held that the knowledge acquired by the study of psychical phenomena
would ultimately revive religion.
She was a member of societies devoted respectively to the study of psychology,
harmonial philosophy, and magnetism, and was in correspondence with the great
magnetists of the French School. Altogether Dutch Spiritualists do well to keep her name
in grateful remembrance.
1) Ormuzd. Emma Hardinge Britten gives no significance to this alternative
word/meaning?
2) Elise Von Calcar. In an earlier chapter Emma Hardinge Britten reefers to Calcar as
Van Calcar, but in the quote she uses Von Calcar. This confusion continues on the
various websites, it is my understanding that the correct name is Elise Van Calcar.
Paul J. Gaunt
…………………………………………………………….
We continue with the letters of J. J. Morse’s Australia / New Zealand trip between
the periods of September 1902 to June 1903. This 8th letter is sent from Brisbane,
Q., Australia, as published in ‘Light’ July 18th
1903.
---------------------------------------
In the same edition of Light appeared a note that gives some indication as to the style of
Morse’s delivery:
Mr. J.J. Morse.-‘The Brisbane Courier,’ of May 21st
, in a report of an address by Mr. J.J.
Morse, said: ‘Oratorically considered, possibly nothing finer than Mr. Morse’s
deliverance last night has been heard in Brisbane. Occasionally a murmur of applause
was manifest; but this only accentuated the death-like silence maintained foe an hour and
twenty minute s- a silence which was the most eloquent kind of appreciation possible. Mr.
Morse, who spoke throughout with closed eyes, showed a most polished style, and a
wonderful command of the English language.’
279
LETTERS FROM MR. J.J. MORSE
=================
VIII
Since despatching the previous letter of this series from Melbourne, my labours have
terminated in that city, and the present communication is written in the city of Brisbane,
in sub-tropical Queensland, some eleven hundred miles north of the capital of Victoria. A
brief resume of the closing incidents of my engagement under the Victorian Association
of Spiritualists may possibly interest the readers of the present letter.
The concluding work included four lectures on the Sunday evenings of April 19th and
26th, and May 3rd and 10th, held, as all the previous ones were, in the Masonic Hall.
The attendances on each occasion were most gratifying in point of numbers, culminating
on the final evening in an audience of between five and six hundred persons. Considering
that the city was in the throes of the great strike of the Government railway employes,
and that all transit beyond the radius of the tram lines was entirely suspended, we were
greatly surprised at the size of the assembly. Modesty precludes the recital of the many
commendatory things said concerning the closing course, or of the final lecture in
particular, but the 'Harbinger of Light' bears full testimony regarding the matter, so no
more need be said here on this point. On the following evening, after the last lecture, the
Victorian Association tendered me a 'Farewell' in its rooms, which were crowded with
the members and friends. Mr. Terry, the president, made a highly eulogistic speech
regarding the work accomplished during my labours for the Association, and in closing
presented me with an address, bound in book form, in which is set out the sentiments of
appreciation entertained by the committee and members of the body. Vocal and musical
exercises, brief speeches from several of the officers of the Association, and the usual
amenities of each occasions, constituted a gratifying and satisfactory conclusion of an
important engagement, during which many ties of friendship have been established, to the
eminent satisfaction of all the parties concerned.
Visits were paid to two of the three Melbourne Lyceums, and as flashlight
photographs were taken on each occasion, and copies subsequently were presented to
me, interesting souvenirs of the progress of that phase of spiritualistic work in Melbourne
are now included in my collection of mementos associated with my visit to Australasia.
It was also my fortune to attend again a few of the Bailey seances, and thereat witness
some more interesting phenomena. I have a splendid set of photo reproductions of the
'bricks' which Mr. Stanford has received, but as I intend publishing a book on my return,
and as a full account of the phenomena referral to in a previous letter, with the results of
competent opinion as to the 'bricks,' will appear therein, the matter can wait until the
publication of the intended work.
On Wednesday, May 13th, accompanied by Mrs. Morse, I sailed from Melbourne in
the ss. 'Peregrine' for this city, via Sydney, which port was reached on the morning of the
following Friday. We had a cold, squally, and unpleasant trip. Sydney we found a
280
splendid city, busy, full of energy, well built, and in all respects a credit to the oldest
colony. The one thing on which Sydyneyites pride themselves is the harbour. On all sides
the stranger is greeted with the ever-recurring question: 'What do you think of our
harbour?' Undeniably it is a splendid natural feature. It has innumerable bays, on the
shores of which are numerous surburban districts. With hills and slopes, verdure and
tree-clad to the water's edge, with ships of all nations and dimensions on its waters,
Sydney Harbour is well worth coming from afar to see. The towns about it are easily
reached by steamer, train, or tram, and for a very small sum a day's excursion can be
readily enjoyed. We remained some thirty hours, and just prior to sailing it was a
pleasure to receive a visit from the Rev. George Walters, of the Australian Church in
Sydney. Cultured, able, and progressive, this gentleman has done much valuable service
during his residence in the metropolis of New South Wales. He has placed his church at
my disposal for Sunday, June 14th, and I am to appear on the morning and evening of
that date.
Resuming our voyage we rapidly entered into fine weather and the remainder of the trip
was as pleasant as could be desired. Moreton Bay was reached early on the Monday
morning of May 18th, and at 8 a.m. we came to rest at the wharf on the Brisbane river,
some fifty miles inland from the Heads. A cool breeze, a cloudless sky, and the sun
shining brilliantly, were the physical welcomes we received in the capital of sub-tropical
Queensland. But the personal welcome accorded us exceeded in heartiness and cordiality
anything of the kind previously experienced in Australia. Regarding my work here I must
speak in my next letter, suffice it to say just now that it has been the most successful of
any place hitherto visited.
We leave here on June 10th, and the day after my labours in Sydney, as mentioned
above, Mrs. Morse and myself sail in the ss. 'Sonora,' en route for San Francisco, via
Auckland, New Zealand. Arrangements have been made for me to hold meetings at
Auckland and Thames, which necessitates 'laying over' for the next following steamer;
consequently we finally bid adieu to Australasia on July 10th, and are due in San
Franciso on the 27th of the same month. The voyage is the commencement of our
homeward journey, though many leagues remain to be covered, after reaching the States,
before we set foot on British soil again.
Miss Morse is in New Zealand, where, during this month, she has been speaking to
crowded audiences in Dunedin. She will go on to Auckland for more lectures, and we
shall join her there on our arrival. She is well, and is meeting with warm commendations
at all places in which she works.
In looking this letter over it reads as mainly personal. For this I crave the indulgence
of my readers, but under the circumstances the defect, if such it be, is unavoidable. How-
ever, permit me a word which will interest your readers in Newcastle-on-Tyne, and in the
counties of Durham and Northumberland, without doubt. It is that we met here an old-
time Northern worker, Mr. Harry Burton, formerly of Newcastle. It is nineteen years
since we last met, since which time my old friend has had a great variety of experiences,
including the ruination of his estate on the Maroochi River by the disastrous flood of
281
1893, as it is known in local history. This city was feet deep in water on that occasion,
small steamers running in the main streets, and a gunboat being afloat in the Botanical
Gardens! Mr. Burton holds the post of city inspector, and is as ardent a Spiritualist as
ever, and has, among other things, been a well-known lecturer, editor, and Press
correspondent. Prior to leaving his native town the 'Strolling Player' told him he would
meet him again in this city, and that, in the middle of the year after his (Mr. Burton's)
arrival, his wife would bear him a son. Both predictions have been literally fulfilled,
though the last one was at the time deemed most improbable.
We are in the midst of 'winter ' here, but the heat in the sun is uncomfortable! Flowers
abound, the foliage is luxuriant and verdant, and but for chilly nights and mornings you
could imaging it almost summer at home! We like Queensland immensely, and are
charmed with Brisbane, while publicly the meetings are only limited in size by the
accommodations of the hall, and the city Press has been pronounced in its appreciative
reports of the addresses; therefore we have every reason to be gratified with our
experiences up here, in spite of the reports we had down South that the climate was too
awful for a white man! Strange that sectional prejudices should so warp the judgment,
and cause people to misrepresent plain facts. However, enough for this time, and with
greetings to all my readers and friends I lay down my pen.
Brisbane, Q., Australia.
May 29th, 1903.
==================================
How to obtain this Newsletter
The Psypioneer newsletter is at present available, complete with all back issues on
the web site http://www.woodlandway.org and we are greatly indebted to our Australian
friends for hosting and posting this Newsletter. You can obtain it free and direct by
sending an e-mail entitled “Subscribe” to psypioneersub@aol.com or “Unsubscribe” to
discontinue.
To contact Psypioneer please e-mail. psypioneer@aol.com
Paul J. Gaunt
282
