{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/psypioneer.iapsop.com\/psypioneer_v3_n2_feb_2007.pdf","mytitle":"Psypioneer V3 N2 Feb 2007","mylang":"de"}
PSYPIONEER
Founded by Leslie Price Editor Paul J. Gaunt
Volume 3, No 2; February 2007
Available as an Electronic Newsletter
Highlights of this issue:
Search for Emma intensifies. Leslie Price. 23
Funeral of Emma Hardinge Britten. 28
On the spiritual frontier in America – W.V. Rauscher’s new book 32
Religio-Philosophical Journal. 34
Helen Duncan - Malcolm Gaskill responds 42
Letters from Mr. J.J. Morse, letter X. 43
How to obtain this Newsletter by email. 47
=========================================
SEARCH FOR EMMA INTENSIFIES
A lost book by Emma Hardinge Britten came tantalisingly into view recently- only to
recede again.
In Psypioneer December 20061
, we drew attention to the biography of Elise Van Calcar,
the pioneer Dutch Spiritualist. An American reader pointed out that this biography
mentioned the book by Emma on world pioneers featured in Psypioneer January 20072
,
which she was seeking funds to publish.
The Editor obtained a copy of this Dutch biography3
and duly found the reference to
Emma’s book on world pioneers. Alas, another American reader realised that this was a
reference to Elise contributing an article to Emma; intended for the world pioneer book.
The biographer had wrongly footnoted it, as if the pioneer book already existed. A Dutch
subscriber confirmed this interpretation.
But perhaps Emma’s manuscript survived? Duncan Gascoyne, SNU president and curator
of the Britten Museum commented: -
1
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP2.12December06..pdf
2
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.1January07..pdf
3
Elise Van Calcar-Schiotling by J.H. Sikemeier. Published: - H.D. Tjeenk Willink & Zoon, Haarlem 1921.
23
This is the first I have heard about such a publication. There is definitely no mention of it
in the scant records I have in the Britten Memorial Museum.
I would imagine that on Emma's death, all her papers etc were passed on to her sister
Margaret. Where Emma's papers went to after Margaret's death I do not know. There
must have been a beneficiary somewhere. Maybe either Emma or Margaret left wills, but
to date have not come across them. Margaret always claimed that she was the last
surviving relative of Emma, but in recent times this has been questioned
As reported in Psypioneer September 20044
, the SNU president had already found
evidence of early trance work by Emma before her first visit to America. Recently he has
been able to throw new light on both the early and later years of her life. He told
Psypioneer: -
In my research on Emma I think I have now found who I believe to be the mysterious Dr.
Hardinge. He appears to be a medical botanist, maybe of Irish descent, but to change his
Christian name from time to time.
I have been unable to ascertain any continuity for him, either in previous or subsequent
censuses.
By kind permission of Duncan Gascoyne, we are attaching his Further Information
checklist of the outlines of Emma’s family at present. Readers are cautioned that there is
still uncertainty on some points. We also acknowledge the important groundbreaking
monograph by Robert Mathiesen “The Unseen Worlds of Emma Hardinge Britten”
(2001) available from http://www.theohistory.org/occas.html
EMMA HARDINGE BRITTEN
Further Information collated by Duncan Gascoyne (as at February 2007)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Will dated 16th
March 1776 for Ebenezer Floyd, Mariner of Minehead, Somerset.
Catalogue Ref PROB 11/1017.
1819
Marriage of Ebenezer Floyd to Ann Sophia Bromfield took place on 9th
December 1819
at Misterton, Somerset
1823
Emma Floyd born 2nd
May 1823. Christened 28th
May 1823 at St Matthew, Bethnal
Green, London
4
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/Leslie_Price_PP5.pdf
24
1830
Margaret Floyd born 20th
March 1830. Christened 20th
April 1830 at St Michaels,
Bristol, Glos.
1841 England Census shows the following at Great Billing, Northamptonshire:-
Edward Britten 1791
Susannah Britten 1786
Charles Britten 1811
Abigail Britten 1821
William Britten 1821
1844
Actresses listed at the Adelphi Theatre from 1806 to 1900 shows that an Emma Hardinge
worked there annually from 1844 to 1853.
Emma was not using her maiden name of Floyd.
1851
England Census for that year shows living at 11 Tufton Street, Westminster are:-
Mrs A Sophia Floyd, Head, Widow aged 50, born Liverpool
Emma Floyd, Daughter aged 23, born London.
1851
England Census for that year shows living at 6 Buckingham Place, Westminster were:-
Edwd Alfred Hardinge Head 39 Medical Botanist b. St Margarets
Elizth Hardinge Wife 36 “ “ “ b. St Pancras
Emily Hardinge Dau 13 Scholar b. St Anns
Victoria Hardinge Dau 9 Scholar b. St James
Edward Hardinge Son 2 b. St Anns
(There could be a change of names for Edwd Alfred Hardinge as research has shown that
a Samuel Elijah Harding married an Elizabeth Whitaker on 13th
February 1832 at St
Annes, Soho, Westminster, London.
They had a daughter Emily Sarah Harding born 1st
August 1837, christened 19th
August
at St Anne Soho, Westminster.
They also had another daughter Victoria Louisa Matilda Harding born 9th
January 1842,
christened on 15th
May at St Anne’s, Soho.)
1855
New York Passenger Lists Record shows that a Mrs Harding aged 45 and a Miss
Harding aged 25 left Liverpool on the ship Pacific and arrived at New York on 22nd
August 1855.
Emma had been booked to appear as Mrs Bracebridge in the Broadway play “The
Tragedy Queen”
25
1857
Margaret Floyd married a Gilbert Wilkinson at Manchester. Vol 8d Page 152
1860
United States Federal Census Record shows the following as living in Ward 15,
District 1, New York:-
A S Harding aged 66
Emma Harding aged 29.
No occupations shown. Both born in England.
1870
Emma married William Britten on Tuesday 11th
Oct at Grace Church Rectory, Jersey
City, by the Rev. J. Rice. (To date I have not found confirmation of this in US records.)
(This could be the William Britten, son of an Edward and Susannah Britten as stated
on 1841 Census.)
1871
England Census shows the following living at 6 Vassal Terrace, Kensington:-
Ann S Floyd Head 78 Annuitant b Liverpool
Emma Britten Dau 38 Actress b Middx
Margaret Wilkinson Dau 30 Actress b Bistol
William Britten SinL 40 Annuitant b Bristol
Gilbert Wilkinson SinL 48 Secretary b Lincolnshire
1881
England Census for that year shows the following living at 97 Clarendon Street,
Crumpsall, Manchester:-
Gilbert Wilkinson Head 55 Cashier b Glentham, Lincs
Margaret Wilkinson Wife 50 b Bristol
Annie S Floyd MinL 88 Annuitant b Liverpool
William Britten Visitor 60 Gunsmith b Northampton
Emma Britten Visitor 55 b London
1886
Ann Sophia Floyd died 31st
March 1886 aged 93
1891
Not found in Census Returns as yet
1894
William Britten died 24th
November aged 73
1899
Emma Britten died 2nd
October aged 76
26
1906
Gilbert Wilkinson died aged 81 on 17th
May
1912
Margaret Wilkinson died 82 on 24th
October
(All the above 5 persons are buried at the Manchester General Cemetery, Harpurhey. On
entering the main driveway of the Cemetery the grave is about 150 yards down on the
right, eight graves in the row. Grave No 2111).
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Paul J. Gaunt adds:
Duncan Gascoyne ends with the Manchester General Cemetery, Harpurhey. The
‘Autobiography of Emma Hardinge Britten’ edited and published by Margaret Wilkinson
in 1900, gives a short coverage of the funeral in the appendix. The funeral of Emma
Hardinge Britten was probably still the largest to date for a Spiritualist medium,
reportedly numbering about two thousand mourners at Manchester cemetery. I have
found another report of the funeral of Mrs. Britten which gives a much wider picture
printed below in full.
Returning briefly to the research on Emma’s family and the hopeful possibility that
Emma’s unpublished book ‘The Spiritualist Encyclopaedia or the World’s Pioneers of
the New Spiritual Reformation’ and papers have survived, it is worth considering here
that Emma and Margaret had a sister and brother. We know that their brother Tom died
when only 16 years old in 1846, however we know nothing of their sister, not even her
name. There may be reasons why Emma did not, as far as I know, mention this other
sister in her writings, (except for the brief mention in her Autobiography), but these
omissions do not detract from a closeness of sisters which may well have been the case. I
found it interesting that in Walter Howell’s5
speech (as printed below) he concludes: -
Now her soul had been emancipated by kindly death, and she had entered the land of the
free where mother, brother, father, and husband, and hosts of others had given her glad
welcome. One wonders why one member of her immediate family was omitted, unless of
course she was still alive.
It is also interesting to observe that at the end of the Howell speech it is remarked: -
Telegrams from sympathetic friends poured in during the day, and floral tributes were
sent from relatives, friends……. The relatives may have been from Mr. Wilkinson’s
family, but this tribute was to Emma. Could these relatives be her other, sister and
family? According to Margaret Wilkinson however, she was Emma’s sole surviving
relative!
5
Walter Howell was a trance medium, he was born blind but after some surgery, limited
sight was restored with the aid of strong spectacles. Howell was an active speaker in
America and in the U.K., from around 1879.
27
Taken from ‘Light’ October 14th
1899 page 484-5: -
EMMA HARDINGE BRITTEN
__________
In the passing away of Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten the cause of Spiritualism has lost
one of its foremost and most eloquent advocates. She was attracted to the subject almost
half a century ago, and readily responded to the impending power. As medium and
advocate she led thousands of people into the knowledge of the truth of spirit intercourse,
and scattered seeds of thought which are coming to fruition in the spirit that moves this
age.
Her experiences were many and varied. Herself a strongly marked individuality, she
had wonderful power, when under spiritual inspiration, and swayed huge audiences by
her burning and fervid oratory. In fact, when in her prime she had the force and fluency,
the impassioned, intellectual acumen of the masculine mind added to the winning power,
sympathy, intuition, and spiritual grace of the true woman; and it was no wonder that in
America, Australia, and in Great Britain her peerless eloquence charmed all hearts and
won for her the affectionate regard - aye, the love - of hosts of people.
The announcement of her ascension had been expected, and it was the signal for an
outburst of loyalty and a manifestation of loving regard and appreciation that have been
unequalled in the history of our movement. We know that in these latter days she has
sometimes felt weary and sad at heart, as if she stood alone and had been forsaken, but
was only so in seeming, for in the hearts of all Spiritualists who knew her the feelings of
personal regard and affection were unchanged; and she must have felt this to be true
since her entrance into the life where thoughts and feelings are more palpable to the
spiritual consciousness than here.
On Saturday last a select company of friends assembled at No. 2, Winfield-terrace,
Manchester, including Mrs Hammarbom and Mr. H. A. Kersey of Newcastle, Mr. and
Mrs. A. Smedley of Belper, Mr. J. J. Morse, and Mr. and Mrs. E. W. Wallis, of London,
Mrs. Morgan, Mr. J. Chapman, Mr. W. Howell, and Mr. J. Lamont, of Liverpool, Mrs. E.
Green, Mr. R. Fitton, Mr. arid Mrs. W. Phillips and Mr. A. W. Orr, of Manchester. A
brief impressive service was conducted by the veteran and warm friend of Mrs. Britten,
Mr. John Lamont, who, in a voice broken by deep emotion, referred to the fact that thirty
years ago he heard Mrs. Britten speak in Hope Hall, Liverpool, when she dealt with six
subjects chosen by the audience. Being sceptical at the time, he admitted that she was a
most extraordinary woman, but put aside the claim that she was inspired by spirits. Since
then he had had many opportunities of judging, both from public and private experiences,
and all quibbles had been set aside, as they had been for thousands of people during the
years in which Mrs. Britten had so bravely carried the unsullied flag of reform and
spiritual progress. He felt that it was a joyful occasion, for our sister had been released
from the mortal form which had been failing and fading away. She had entered into life,
28
free from the pains and troubles of earth - and what a joyful meeting it must have been to
again join the hundreds of fellow workers and relatives who doubtless welcomed her with
the spirit of the words, `Well done, good and faithful one,' He made bold to say that such
a welcome had seldom been accorded to any one as that with which our illustrious
spiritual worker was received `over there.' Emma Hardinge Britten was not the woman to
remain idle, and he was confident that she would still be found working for the truth she
held so dear. After reading and interpreting some passages of Scripture, taken from 2nd
Corinthians, - Mr. Lamont was suddenly controlled, and in a beautiful and affecting
speech addressed the ascended one, congratulating her upon her entrance into life and
liberty and expressing the hope that many might be inspired to follow her noble example.
Mr. J. J. Morse, in a very eloquent and earnest address, such as he is so well able to
give upon such occasions, esteemed it a honour and a privilege to be allowed to add to
the testimony of Mr. Lamont. He felt that earth had been enriched by the life and labours
of Mrs. Britten, and the spirit life had been made dearer by her entrance there.
Thousands had had their souls' longing satisfied and the doubting spirit had been
convinced by the burning eloquence of her inspired utterances. He treasured as a
beautiful memory the recollection of the fact that as a young man he was stirred to a
nobler sense of duty and of right, and encouraged by her sympathy and heartfelt `God
speed' to persevere in the work. Let them remember her life and labour as a perpetual
incentive and inspiration. She fainted not nor spared herself in her devoted service to the
angels and humanity. In the humble cot or in the palace her voice was ever raised for the
truth as she saw it, and no one had done more than she to rationalise, strengthen, and
beautify Spiritualism. She is with us to-day, a living presence; and the spirit of her life
will be a source of strength and cheer as long as memory retains her power. In
remembering her life, and the good that she had achieved, and the golden love links that
can never be severed, let us remember her devoted sister, who has to live on without the
personal presence of her beloved one. It was natural that tears should flow at such a
time—blessed tears that are a baptism - and he concluded with a fervent prayer that God
would bless the sister whom we loved and honoured.
Mr. Walter Howell, of Liverpool, said he could hardly add anything to what had
already been said. We all feel that our meeting to-day is not one of mourners, for we
rejoice with our emancipated sister and fellow-worker in her freedom, and although tears
will come and the darkness of earthly sorrow will hide the light, yet we know that behind
the cloud, the sunlight of the world of spirit shines, and that she whom we loved is there
in that glory, glimpses of which pierce through the rifts and cause the rainbow of promise
to shine in the mist of our tears, bespeaking the time when all tears shall be wiped from
all faces by angel hands. The recollections of such a life of consecration and service as
Mrs. Britten's are refreshing to us. He well remembered when first he listened to and was
moved by her wonderful oratory, and in many places in America he had heard glowing
tributes of appreciation of her work there when she pleaded for the liberation of the
slaves - both black and white - from physical and spiritual bondage. Now her soul had
been emancipated by kindly death, and she had entered the land of the free where mother,
brother, father, and husband, and hosts of others had given her glad welcome.
29
Telegrams from sympathetic friends poured in during the day, and floral tributes were
sent from relatives, friends, societies and lyceums from all parts of the country, including
wreaths from Mr. and Mrs. T. Everitt, Mrs. Hammarbom and Mrs. Green, Mr. and Mrs.
Butterworth, Mrs. Duke, Mr. Orr, Mrs. Hyde and Mr. and Mrs. Arundale, 'LIGHT' and
the London Spiritualist Alliance,- and from the directors of the 'Two Worlds,' and a
beautiful floral harp from the Salford Spiritual Church, of which Mrs. Britten was an
honorary life member and in which her last public service took place, when she unveiled
the stained glass window. Upwards of twenty carriages conveyed the relatives and
friends to the cemetery, where Lyceum children lined the carriage drive, and a large
concourse of people gathered around the grave, among whom we noticed Spiritualists
from almost all of the Lancashire and Yorkshire and Midland centres of spiritual labour.
The National Federation was represented by Mr. J. J. Morse, President elect of the
Conference, Mr. W. Harrison (Burnley), Secretary, and Mr. J. Swindlehurst, Organiser.
The Lyceum Union was also represented by Mr. Morse, President, and Mr. A. Kitson,
Secretary. The Yorkshire Union was represented by Mr. J Burchell, President, and a
number of its officers. ‘LIGHT’ and the London Spiritualist Alliance were represented by
Mr. E. W. Wallis, and the 'Two Worlds' Publishing Company, Limited, by Mr. F.
Tomlinson, Chairman, the directors, and the Editor of the 'Two Worlds,' Mr. W. Phillips.
A large number of public speakers and mediums were present.
The coffin having been lowered, Mr. Lamont gave out a hymn which was sung by the
Lyceum children, led by Mr. A. Rocke, and taken up by the whole of the people, number-
ing about two thousand Mr. J. J. Morse then offered a fervent and impressive invocation,
and Mr. Lamont, in a few well chosen words, committed the body to the care of 'mother
earth' and bore sincere testimony to the worth and work and nobility of Mrs. Britten. The
children then walked past the grave dropping flowers upon the casket until it was almost
hidden from view. After another hymn had been sung, Mr. Lamont called upon the
secretary of the London Spiritualist Alliance, Mr. E. W. Wallis, who in a few earnest
words referred to the unique personality and generous spirit of Mrs. Britten. He thought
no other occasion could have called together the large and truly representative
concourse of Spiritualists, who, prompted by love, had assembled from all parts of the
land to show their affectionate regard for their brave and loyal teacher and friend. 'For
her the day has indeed dawned and for us this spot is sacred ground. Here,' said the
speaker, 'the two worlds meet and we join with the angels in congratulating our sister
upon the completion of her work and her entrance into the light and liberty of the spirit
life. Such occasions as the present should teach us the necessity for greater sympathy,
tolerance and kindliness. Mrs. Britten always stood forth firmly and consistently for
Spiritualism, as an education, as a reform, and as a religion. Let us remember her
statement of principles: "The Fatherhood of God, the brotherhood of man, the
immortality of the soul, inter-communion between the two worlds and the path of eternal
progress open to every soul who wills to tread therein"; and let her example and fidelity
be an impetus to us all to continue the work to which she so fully and faithfully devoted
her life.' With the singing of another hymn the proceedings terminated. Mr. A. W. Orr
and Mr. W. Phillips kindly rendered every assistance possible to Mrs. Wilkinson and the
relatives in carrying out the necessary arrangements, and the bright sunshine of the
30
autumn day fitly symbolised the spiritual brightness following the close of the autumn
time of physical life and the sunshine of the spiritual day.
Continued in the same edition of ‘Light’: -
On Tuesday last a mass meeting in commemoration of the life and work of Mrs.
Britten was held in the Co-operative Hall, Downing-street, Manchester, when there was a
large and representative audience. The hall was tastefully decorated with mottoes and
flowers. The chair was occupied by Mr. J. J. Morse (president of the National Federation
Conference) who was supported by a number of veteran workers and mediums. In
opening the meeting the chairman gave an exhaustive review of the life-work and career
of Mrs. Britten, and Mr. Johnson, of Hyde, one of the earliest lecturers, moved a
resolution of loving sympathy with Mrs. M. Wilkinson, and of recognition of her faithful
sisterly devotion to Mrs. Britten.
Mrs. M. H. Wallis, in a feeling and touching address, seconded the motion, and Mrs.
Ellen Green very earnestly supported the motion.
Mr. James B. Tetlow moved a eulogistic resolution in recognition of the life-long
international services so ardently rendered to the cause of Spiritualism and humanity by
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten - not the least of which was the promoting of the
Spiritualists' National Federation of Great Britain. Mr. Tetlow narrated many interesting
incidents connected with his association with our departed friend.
The resolution was very ably and eloquently seconded by Walter Howell in an earnest
speech, his remarks eliciting the heartiest approval. He was followed by Mr. S. S.
Chiswell, whose ringing remarks caused great enthusiasm. He referred particularly to
the Lyceum work, in which Mrs. Britten entertained the liveliest interest. Both resolutions
were unanimously adopted by a 'rising vote.' The meeting was in every way a great
success and the recognition of Mrs. Britten's life and work was all that could possibly be
desired.
Margaret Wilkinson’s letter to ‘Light’ (same edition)
SIR, Allow me, through the medium of your valuable paper, to return to the many
friends and to all the societies (in every direction) the true and heartfelt thanks of my
spirit sister and myself for the universal kindness and loving sympathy they have
manifested in their appreciation of the vast work she (Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten) has
accomplished.
Though she is now no longer in our midst visibly, she unites with me in the sentiments
expressed above; and she prays that all Spiritualists, in every land throughout the world,
may join in unity of purpose to spread the cause she so dearly loves, and which she has
spent the greater portion of her life in trying to elevate and uphold. She desires that
dissensions shall cease, and that all shall unanimously join in aiding to the utmost of
their power the grand work of spreading the glad tidings of immortality.
31
She says, "Let there be UNITY, not DIVISION, peace not strife, in the camp, and then
the great truths of Spiritualism will take deeper root and become a spreading tree, which
will extend its branches everywhere.'
Again, I thank you, Mr. Editor, and also all the kind friends, for your loving messages
to me in the time of trial and grief. MARGARET WILKINSON.
2, Winfield-terrace, Chester-road,
Old Trafford.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Book Review by Leslie Price:
ON THE SPIRITUAL FRONTIER IN AMERICA
For forty years, Canon William V. Rauscher has been a leading Christian
parapsychologist in America, and also a member of the Churches’ Fellowship for
Psychical and Spiritual Studies (CFPSS) in England. This ought to make him a national
treasure for the Episcopal Church there, similar to Canon Michael Perry of Durham, who
was awarded a Lambeth doctorate by the Archbishop of Canterbury specifically for his
work in this field... In fact it makes him marginalised.
There is nothing like CFPSS in the States. Spiritual Frontiers Fellowship, which began
with this example, faded into the New Age. There is no real equivalent to the London
Society for Psychical Research either, as the American SPR is now also a wraith.
Rauscher was however encouraged in his early investigations by Eileen Garrett and the
Parapsychology Foundation in New York, who made it possible for him to travel to meet
European psychical researchers. Another deep influence was the troubled medium Arthur
Ford, mentor to the SFF pioneers.
So why is Rauscher significant? He was president of SFF when it had 6000 members in
the late 1960s, and knew many of the mediums, healers and researchers then active. One
can only compare his wide acquaintance with that of Maurice Barbanell here - and he
knew him too.
Rauscher’s attitude to the paranormal is critical but not negative .He is an experienced
stage magician, and writer on the history of magic. Again, it is difficult for magicians,
accustomed as they are to deception, to avoid the hubris of rejecting psi. But Rauscher is
among a surprising number who have accepted the reality of some phenomena. He is also
one of the few psychical researchers proficient in magic.
32
If the best understanding of the puzzles of mediumship comes from observing its stars,
then Rauscher’s long acquaintance with Ford qualifies him. He has the unusual
distinction of collaborating in one of the most profound mediumistic biographies (“Arthur
Ford: the man who talked with the dead”) and also in a shocking exposure of Spiritualist
fraud ( ” The Psychic Mafia.” ) .
From 1957 to retirement in 1996, Rauscher was in parish ministry. This is important.
Even the most dramatic paranormal manifestations which he witnessed had as
background the supernatural routine of the church’s year. Rauscher did not wander off to
India, start his own religion, or promote heresy. He demonstrated stability, ministered to
the people, amassed a considerable library which is already a boon to scholars, and wrote
books ranging from a pastoral treatment of suicide (informed by awareness of psychic
realms) to an essential monograph on the Houdini test message claimed by Ford.
Rauscher’s recent books have been issued through his own Mystic Light Press. The
present work is the most substantial of these, which are physically characterised by a high
standard of production and numerous illustrations. The chapters deal with his many-
faceted life as a priest, psychical researcher and magician, and recall some of the
outstanding sensitives and scholars whom he knew. Many of the personalities are
American, nationally known but unfamiliar to a British audience.
After some illuminating general biographical sections, the remainder of the 800 pages
and 70 chapters deal with psychic and spiritual matters, roughly arranged in categories
such as ghosts, magic or pioneers. Some of the best of these draw on either the author’s
magical knowledge ( “ such as “ The Davenport Brothers: Spirit Conjurors” ) or his
personal acquaintance with the subject ( such as “ Robert H. Ashby”, felled early by a
brain tumour and still remembered in admiration by at least two London CPS co-
workers.)
The chapters on Spiritual Frontiers Fellowship, especially ch. 7 are important
contributions to the (as yet unwritten) history of this once influential body. Why did it
fail, the historian, will wonder, when its UK equivalent succeeded? Geography played a
part, North America being so vast, as did religious pluralism. In the absence of creedal
bars, anyone could join SFF, and move it away from its original mission to the Churches.
Other problems centred on Arthur Ford, whose enigma is further explored in this book.
While he did not found SFF or control SFF, he did have an inspirational role, some way
between that of Madame Blavatsky in the Theosophical Society and Martin Israel in the
1980s CFPSS.
As befits an Episcopalian, Rauscher gives considerable attention to English matters. In a
chapter about Stainton Moses, there is a photo of him standing at the grave of Stainton
Moses in Bedford Cemetery in 1974. He is the only living person ever to have visited that
grave. Also memorable was Rauscher’s meeting with CFPSS patron Dean Matthews in
1966, when the Dean recalled how a group of cathedral workers prayed that St. Paul’s
would survive the Nazi Blitz. This one of many reminders in the book that there is not
33
only a psychic but also a spiritual dimension. Another is the recognition that the Devil
has role to play in the psyche; a third is the value given to Worship. It is difficult for a
reviewer to know when to stop drawing attention to the valuable material in this book.
The chapter on suicide, for example, which explains how he came to write his ground-
breaking book on that subject. Or the one on alcoholism, which has been so great a
problem to mediums and clergy among others. The chapter “Religion and Masonry” is a
significant apologia for the craft. But the book ends with a Dali cross “The Light of
Christ” which also appears on the cover,
Canon Rauscher explains “It is a fitting way to conclude this journey with the cross as my
guide, because it is in Christ that we find the meaning of the cross and hold it high in all
our endeavors. At least that has been my motivation in all my pathways of Religion,
Magic, and the Supernatural” (p.837).
Because of the light it throws on these pathways this book should not only be in big
psychic libraries, but also read by all who are concerned with the wider implications of
the paranormal.
* Religion, Magic and the Supernatural; the autobiography, reflections and essays of an
Episcopal Priest” (Woodbury, New Jersey, Mystic Light Press, 2006). Limited to 375
copies. (Available from S. S. Adams, LLC - P.O. Box 850 -Neptune, New Jersey 07754
@$50.00 $20.00 International Postage) Email: david@ssadams.com)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
RELIGIO-PHILOSOPHICAL JOURNAL
1865-1905
A weekly journal founded in 1865, by Stevens Sanborn.
Jones,
The first edition was printed on August 26 1865.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
In the last issue of Psypioneer http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.1January07..pdf p13,
readers may recall it was said of Moses Hull In 1864 he founded the Progressive Age.
This paper he sold to S. S. Jones and it became a nucleus for the Religio-Philosophical
Journal. (1)
Founder Stevens S. Jones published the Religio-Philosophical Journal in Chicago until
his murder on 15th March, 1877. He died instantly from two pistol wounds in his office,
in room 16 in the Religio Philosophical Publishing House Building, No. 394, Dearborn
34
Street, Chicago6
, just after mid-day. The killer, William C. Pike surrendered himself almost
immediately after the fatal shooting to Harrison Street Police Station. Satisfied the law
would take its natural course; the Jones family wanted the death penalty impeded; it is
however, unknown to me if the families’ wishes were upheld.
The funeral of Stevens J. Jones took place on Saturday March 17th
one of the two
officiating ministers being Mrs. Cora Richmond. A fuller account of this can be
found in Nineteenth Century Miracles by Emma Hardinge Britten 1883 p. 447. The
tragic event was reported in the Banner of Light on the 31st March, 1877.
Some insight into the life of Mr. Jones is given below in this biographical sketch by
Emma Hardinge Britten in her Nineteenth Century Miracles 1883 p448-9.
"BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF THE DECEASED
"Stevens S. Jones, the editor and proprietor of the Religio Philosophical Journal, a
weekly newspaper devoted to the promulgation of Liberalism and Modern Spiritualism,
and the Little Bouquet, a monthly magazine adapted to the minds of children and youth,
promulgating the same doctrine, was born in Barre, Vt., on July 22nd, 1813. His parents
were intelligent, liberal-minded people. His father was a farmer in moderate circum-
stances.
"At the age of nineteen Mr. Jones entered upon the study of the law, and was admitted
to practice at the November term of Court. He entered upon a successful practice of his
profession in Hyde Park soon after he was admitted, and remained there until his
removal to St. Charles, Ill., in the spring of 1838.
"For many years Mr. Jones confined himself to his profession, and ranked high as a
lawyer. He was twice elected Judge of the Kane County Court, and discharged the duties
of the office to the general satisfaction of the public.
"At an early day in the history of railroads of the Northwest, Mr. Jones was actively
engaged as a railroad man.
"Mr. Jones always belonged to the Liberal school in religion. His parents were
Universalists, and he, for many years after arriving at manhood, was an active member
of that sect. He was generally the presiding officer at the State conventions, associations,
and representative gatherings of the order during the first fifteen years of their history in
the State of Illinois.
6
There is also another address given as the scene of the murder by the jury, Religio Philosophical
Publishing House Building, No. 127 4th
Avenue, Chicago. See Emma Hardinge Britten in her Nineteenth
Century Miracles 1883 p447-8.
35
"He dates his conversion to Modern Spiritualism mainly to the perusal of that remarkable
work given through the early mediumship of Andrew Jackson Davis, called ‘Nature's
Divine Revelations, and a Voice to Mankind.’
"The perusal of that work soon after its publication prepared his mind for the reception
of the truth of spirit communion as given through the mediumship of the 'Fox girls.'
"Once having been convinced of the truth of spirit communion, he fearlessly proclaimed
it on all proper occasions, never obtruding his views, however, upon unwilling ears.
"Often was he heard to speak incidentally of the assurance given him by communicating
spirits that he would, at no remote time, be as deeply engrossed in promulgating the
truths of spirit intercourse, and the philosophy of life, as he was then in his professional
business. But not until the spring of 1865 did he fully realise the truth of that oftrepeated
assurance. Then it was that he found himself fully committed to the work of promulgating
the philosophy of life through the columns of the Religio Philosophical Journal.
"Mr. Jones's publishing house was entirely consumed in the great Chicago fire of Oct.
9th, 1871, His loss was very heavy, and he received nothing from insurance companies.
Some small sums were loaned him, but all was refunded within six months afterwards.
"Most vigorously did he go to work to restore his publishing business. His paper for the
week of the fire, fortunately, was mailed, and on its way to the subscribers, when the 'fire-
fiend' did its work. While the fire was yet raging he wrote the matter for a new issue-
smaller in size-and had it printed and mailed in advance of time, assuring his subscribers
that, although burned out clean, the Religio Philosophical Journal would be continued
without unnecessary delay.
"He then went directly to New York and purchased an entire new outfit, and in five weeks
had the Religio Philosophical Journal, full size, in the United States mails on its way to
its subscribers. In the meantime, between the fire and the printing of the paper in its new
dress-full size - he every week greeted his subscribers with the Religio Philosophical
Journal, small in size, that they might not be in the dark as to the progress being made by
him to reinstate his publishing house. None of the publishers in Chicago on that
memorable occasion excelled him in enterprise.
"Mr. Jones, although his locks were whitened with age, was in full vigour of manhood
and devoted his whole time to conducting his business financially and editorially.”
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
36
The control of the Religio-Philosophical Journal was assumed on Mr. Jones's death by
his son-in-law and former business manager Colonel Bundy.
JOHN CURTIS BUNDY
1841-1892
A sketch of the life and eminent services on behalf of Spiritualism by Mr. Bundy was
prepared by Sara A. Underwood and published in the Religio-Philosophical Journal
on August 20th, 1892. It was afterward re-produced in the Carrier Dove with a portrait,
under the date of Jan. 1893. Due to space I have reprinted an abridged copy of the
account, published in Light Vol. XII No. 610, September 17th
1892: -
John Curtis Bundy, late Editor and publisher of "The Journal," was born at St.
Charles, Kane Co., Ill., about thirty-five miles from the city of which he, a native son of
Illinois, was ever loyally proud and whence on August 6th he was born into the higher
life.
He was ushered into earth-life on February 16th, 1841, the eldest son of Asahel and
Betsey Bundy. As a youth he, though genial tempered, was quite serious-minded and of
studious habits. After leaving the common school of St. Charles he was sent at thirteen
years of age for better instruction to the Brimmer school in Boston, Mass. Later he
attended Phillips Academy at Andover, Mass., to prepare to enter Yale College, but his
health gave way, and he returned to his Western home. It was while at Andover that he
formed an acquaintance with the eminent writer of psychical stories, Elizabeth Stuart
Phelps Ward, for whom he ever cherished an ardent admiration.
Although at the breaking out of the war of the rebellion, but a youth barely twenty
years of age, yet filled with patriotic ardour he at once offered his services in behalf of
the Union. Soon after his enlistment he was given the rank of Second Lieutenant in
Dodson's Independent Cavalry Company, Later he was promoted to a Lieut. -
Colonelship. His military ardour, however, was greater than his physical strength, and in
1863 he was forced to leave the army in order to recuperate his health.
While yet in the service on August 19th, 1862, he married Miss Mary E. Jones, of St.
Charles.
Soon after his retirement from army life Mr. Bundy took up the study of law, which he
gave up to assist his wife's father, Mr. S. S. Jones, the founder of "The Religio-
Philosophical Journal," in the conduct of this paper.
Mr. Bundy was brought up in the Methodist faith, but desirous always of finding the
truth, and with a mind open to conviction, he began very early that life of investigation
and probing for facts for which he was conspicuous, and his search after proof of
continued existence was rewarded by evidences which were to his mind indubitable that
personality survives the dissolution of the physical form, and that which men name death
is but a re-birth into a higher phase of existence. Among the most convincing proofs of
37
this he considered some that were given to him soon after the transition of his only and
idolised son, but these were too sacred to be spoken of.
In 1877 when by the death of his father-in-law, 'Mr. Bundy, assisted by Mrs. Bundy, was
called upon to take charge of "The Journal," he was well fitted both by conviction and
experience to carry on the work of spiritual enlightenment and of scientific investigation
demonstrative of psychical truths, to which he was thus called, and as Professor Coues
says, to him it is mainly due that here in America at the World's Columbian Exposition
there will be presented through that Psychical Congress of which Mr. Bundy was
chairman, a dignified presentation of the scientific proofs for belief in immortal life by
cultured and scholarly scientific Spiritualists, aided by the investigators of the Societies
for Psychical Research. This in itself is something worthy of being born into this life for.
Of the good work done for Spiritualism by Mr. Bundy since he took charge of the paper
the files of "The Journal " give ample evidence, and we leave these to speak for him in
any future history of Spiritualism in this and in all countries.
When Mr. Bundy returned from the National Editorial Convention held in San
Francisco in May, where he had been sent as a delegate from the Chicago Press Club, he
was far from well, but he kept about until seven weeks before his transition, when he
entered his office for the last time Saturday, June 18th, saying he was going to St.
Charles with Mrs. Bundy for a little visit, but would be back on Monday. A week or two
later Mr. and Mrs. Bundy were anticipating a trip to Ann Arbor, Mich., to be present at
the graduation of their daughter from Michigan University. After that event it had been
arranged that they all should take a brief trip to Europe to give the daughter a taste of
the world's pleasure after her years of study.
But alas! every bright anticipation was doomed to non-fulfilment. On the same evening
that he went to St. Charles Mr. Bundy was taken suddenly ill with pleurisy. After ten days
of illness at St. Charles it was deemed best to bring him to his own home in Chicago
where he could be attended by his long-time friend and trusted family physician, Dr. J. H.
Boynton. Everything that skill and love could suggest was done to save him, but the fiat
had gone forth, and seven weeks to a day from the first attack of decided pain he passed
away from earthly cares.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
During the Bundy Editorship he took a hard line against; Fraudulent Mediumship. Its
motto was: -“Truth wears no mask, bows at no human shrine, seeks neither place nor
applause; she only asks a hearing.”
A specialty of the Religio Philosophical Journal has been its editor’s fearless exposure of
the frauds practiced in the name of spiritualism and the resolute protection which he has
extended not only to genuine mediums, but also to earnest investigators by his unsparing
denunciation of sham manifestations, and attempts to simulate genuine spirit mediumship.
38
Mrs Britten gave evidence of this (Nineteenth Century Miracles p.450).
We have now before us some printed sheets issued from the Religio-Philosophical
Journal office, which broadly define the general tone, aim, and purpose of that excellent
periodical: -
"Such frauds we have opposed, and shall continue to do so, and our course has not
only been approved by a majority of the best Spiritualists, but by a goodly number of
the best and most reliable mediums, as their testimonials in our columns during the
past year show.
"Care, accuracy, and truthfulness are indispensable in the investigation of spirit
manifestations. We have, therefore, urged that good mediums should at times submit
to thorough, yet fair, test conditions, asked and granted in a spirit of mutual good faith
and goodwill, and such as many of our best mediums have most willingly granted; and
this not only for the satisfaction of inquirers, but for the good repute of mediums.
"The cry that we are an enemy of mediums is of no consequence to us, and will not turn
us a hair's breadth from our course. We shall go on in the exposure of all persistent
fraud, and in the effort to uphold and befriend real mediumship and good mediums.
"While, no doubt, persons not of high moral qualities may sometimes be good
instruments for spirits to use, yet sincerity lies at the base of the finest spiritual gifts.
Without willingness to give test-conditions, we can hope for little respect from others,
and for little success in convincing careful investigators.
"We feel and are earnestly assured by thousands that our timely exposures of fraud
have helped to save the great and precious Spiritual Movement from peril and
degradation, and shall go on, if necessary, in that part of our work, trusting to gain in
uncompromising fidelity and 'in malice toward none and charity to all.'"
F.W.H. Myers also paid tribute to Colonel Bundy in JSPR October 1892: -The lamented
decease of Colonel Bundy, of Chicago, the indefatigable Editor of the “Religio-
Philosophical Journal,” represents a serious loss to the small group of those who are
endeavouring to deal with "psychical phenomena” at once with open minds and with
proper caution. On one side of our work we had no more energetic or useful
ally…………………” (JSPR and Proceedings SPR are available on line to SPR members.)
This is what one influential Chicago daily newspaper of the time said, on the death of
John Bundy:-
Taken in full from ‘Light’ Vol XII No. 608 page 427 September 3rd
, 1892.
39
“Inter-Ocean” Chicago August 9th
1892 (1872-1914 then became Record-Herald)
The cause of Spiritualism has lost one of its truest friends in the death of Mr. C. Bundy,
Editor of the “Religio-Philosophical Journal.” While Mr. Bundy believed in the
communion of saints and the visitations of angels as a veritable fact, he had no sympathy
with the pretences to Spiritualism of those mountebanks who used this belief as a cloak
for trickery and humbug. He was one of the keenest and coolest investigators of the
phenomena of spiritual existence, and no disbeliever in Spiritualism was more feared by
the tricksters who professed to be mediums than this man who frankly acknowledged
himself a believer. He had no sympathy with fraud in any guise, and was ever on the alert
for those who sought to use his belief regarding the future state for deception. The
journalistic profession also loses one who held no mean place in its ranks.
It would seem probable that at the birth of the Religio-Philosophical Journal it was
originally meant to be the organ for the Religio-Philosophical Society. At the formation
of the Religio-Philosophical Society in 1864, Stevens Sanborn Jones was its chairman
and a founder member see: - Religio-Philosophical Journal November 11th
1865
‘Formation of the Religio-Philosophical Society’, 1864.7
The formation of the society
refers to ‘First National Convention of Spiritualists’, Chicago August 9-15, 1864; Stevens
S Jones was its president see: - The Chicago Tribune8
The Religio-Philosophical Journal did change and re-organise its name at different
periods in its history. In 1886, under the Bundy’s editorship for instance, it was referred
to as ‘The Religio-Philosophical Journal and weekly occult news’ In William Thomas
Stead’s Borderland volume II No. IX July 1895 page 198 Stead records this rather light
hearted note: -
“Our old friend the Religio-Philosophical Journal has curtailed its name and its inches.
It is now the Philosophical Journal, and of much more convenient proportions than
formerly. We wish it continued success, and would suggest to its new publisher that more
efficient separation between the text and the advertisements would contribute to that end
from the point of view of the reader, to whom it is disturbing to be interrupted, say in the
course of an article on The Bankruptcy of Science, to have his attention called to a cure
for baldness”
At this period the journal was under the editorship of Benjamin Franklin Underwood.
In the ‘Light of Truth’, Album issued by The Light of Truth Publishing Company
Columbus, Ohio 1897 we read this about the Underwoods: -
B. F. Underwood
One of the most prominent lecturers, debaters, and writers of the Free Thought cause,
was Mr. Underwood, at his time. Besides this he is a journalist of high rank. He was
born in New York City, July 6, 1839, and in 1857 already contributed articles to first -
7
http://www.spirithistory.com/64relig.html
8
http://www.spirithistory.com/64chicg.html
40
class journals. He served as lieutenant in the Union army. At the close of the war he re-
entered the lecture field, and was late editor of the Boston Index and Chicago Open
Court. Few men have ever received such editorial deference by the press as Mr. Under-
wood. For several years he was editorial writer for the Religio Philosophical Journal, on
scientific, religious, and moral subjects, and for about two years he himself conducted the
paper along the lines and in the interest of the Psychical Research Society. Mrs. Un-
derwood associated with him, writing directly in support of Spiritualism, citing in proof
her own personal experiences. As a young man Mr. Underwood was inclined to
materialism, but latterly he has lectured on Spiritualism - having made its phenomena a
subject of careful investigation. He has also contributed articles to the Arena and Journal
of Psychic Research anent his observations in relation to this subject. He was also
secretary of the Psychical Science Congress held in connection with the World's Fair, co-
operating with many other prominent men in contributing to the success of those
important meetings.
Mrs. Sarah A. Underwood.
Until her eighteenth year, Mrs. Underwood was a Methodist, but shortly after reasoned
herself out of orthodoxy into liberalism. About this time the writings of Mr. B. F.
Underwood also came to her notice, which resulted in correspondence and eventually
marriage in 1862. She then became identified with the reform movement, though longing
all the while for a higher light and some definite evidence of immortality. But upon
reading the results of investigations made by Professors Sidgwick, Lodge, and James, she
remembered some youthful experiences with the planchette, and determined privately to
experiment in automatic writing. The results proved that "spirits" were the agency, as
described in her book entitled "Automatic Spirit Writing." Her present address is 2653
Evanston avenue, Chicago, Ill.
Numerous pages on Mr. Benjamin Underwood and Sarah Underwood’s mediumship are
available on line for members of the ‘Society for Psychical Research’: -
http://www.spr.ac.uk/ a free trial is now available!
Editors of the journal - draft dates
Stevens S. Jones: - August 26 1865 – April 28 1877.
John Bundy: - May 5 1877 – August 20 1892.
Mary Elizabeth Jones Bundy: - August 27 1892 – December 9 1893.
Benjamin Franklin Underwood (1839 – 1914): - December 16 1893 – December 7
1895.
Thomas Gabriel Newman 1833-1903): - December 14 1895 - February 28 1903.
J. Munsell Chase: – March 7 1903 – February 6 1904.
W. Tudor Jones (1865-1946): - February 13 1904 – April 15 1905.
The journal was superseded by the Mountain Pine 1906-1908.
41
Publication: -
August 26 1865 – May 9 1896 published in Chicago.
May 16 1896 – December 28 1896 published in San Diego.
January 2 1897 – April 15 1905 published in San Francisco.
[It has not yet been possible to confirm the complete reliability of all these dates.},
1) The Other Side of Salvation: Spiritualism and the Nineteenth-Century Religious
Experience by John B. Buescher published by Skinner House Books Boston ISBN 1-
55896-448-7 2004. This book looks at in some detail at the foundation of the Religio-
Philosophical Journal and Religio-Philosophical Society. Though not quoted in this
paper, it has been frequently consulted. It will be seen that we differ from one
statement (p159) - In 1863, Brown moved to Chicago and worked with spiritualist
Moses Hull, first in editing The Religio-Philosophical Journal (before it was sold to
Stevens Jones) and then in editing The Spiritual Republic. [Brown is Hannah Frances
Brown].
I believe this statement to be incorrect, as has already been stated; the first edition of
‘The Religio-Philosophical Journal’ was published by Stevens Jones on August 26
1865. 1863, as quoted above, pre-dates Moses Hull’s ‘Progressive Age’ founded in 1864?
Paul J. Gaunt
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Dear Leslie,
I've just seen your remarks about myself and my book Hellish Nell in Psypioneer (June
2006)9
. I wasn't quite sure what you were implying, but perhaps it would help if I were to
be more explicit.
Contrary to what is commonly said, and what has been repeated recently in the national
press, there is not a shred of reliable evidence to suggest that Winston Churchill visited
Helen Duncan in Holloway, still less that he enjoyed a private seance with her. The
Churchill Archives, while not a complete documentary record of Churchill's life, contain
no papers that even mention Helen Duncan or her trial.
I regret that the tone of Hellish Nell seems hostile to you. I am a historian, not a psychical
researcher, and I deal in the scholarly interpretation of archival sources. Inevitably, this
requires me to make judgements, with which not everyone will agree.
Please feel free to publish this letter if you think it would be of interest to your readers.
9
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP2.6June06.pdf
42
Best wishes,
Malcolm Gaskill
[We hope to report further on the problem of false statements by the BBC and others
about Mrs Duncan, in which Dr Gaskill’s cordial interest is acknowledged.]
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
We continue with the letters of J. J. Morse’s Australia / New Zealand trip between the
periods of September 1902 to June 1903. This 10th letter is sent from San Francisco, Cal.,
U.S., as published in ‘Light’ September 5th
1903.
---------------------------------------
LETTERS FROM MR. J.J. MORSE
=============================================
X.
In the closing paragraph of my previous letter the promise was made that my readers
should be told of my final experiences during my late visit to Australasia. Let me then
first address myself to that end.
My Visit to Sydney
Accompanied by Mrs. Morse, I reached Sydney, the capital of the State of New South
Wales, on Friday, June 12th, our friend, Miss A. J. Mallet Renouf, meeting us on our
arrival. At one time it seemed improbable that I should lecture in the above-named city,
for, though the possibility was several times considered by the local societies, no
satisfactory arrangement could be made, either with Mr. Terry, or myself. Miss Renouf,
however, interested herself in the matter, and communicated with the Rev. George
Walters, pastor of the Australian Church, and the result was that that gentleman
generously placed his church at my disposal for the Sunday, and organised a reception to
us, which was held in the Queen's Hall on the evening of our arrival, and was attended by
a large and enthusiastic company, including members of the church, the various
Spiritualist societies, and other liberal bodies. Mr. Walters presided, and his speech, and
those of other friends, were more than generous in tone, and made us feel we were indeed
among friends. I met quite a number of our people who knew and heard me lecture in
England upwards of twenty-five years ago, in the Midlands, Lancashire, Yorkshire, and
other counties. Among those was Mr. J. N. Greenwell, at one time hon. secretary to the
meetings held in the old Goswell Hall, London. He is well, and successful in business,
and was more than delighted to meet us both.
The Rev. Mr. Waiters' church meets in the handsome and capacious hall of the
Oddfellows' Temple, located in the centre of the city. He is a Unitarian Spiritualist, and
has an excellent society and congregation. He occupies a prominent position alike as a
43
preacher, orator, and poet, and is the author of at least, two remarkable dramas. Able,
fearless, and eloquent, it is small wonder that he attracts a particularly intelligent
company every Sunday to listen to him My meetings were held in the morning and the
evening. The first was attended by nearly four hundred people, while at night the large
hall was literally packed, many being denied admission for lack of room to accommodate
them. If hearty applause, and unstinted congratulations from the friends, are a criterion,
then t can be truly said the meetings were a conspicuous success. Indeed, universal
regrets were expressed at my inability to remain for at least a month, and the hope was
freely manifested that at some future time it would be possible for me to return. A
pleasing feature was that the local Spiritualist societies closed their evening meetings so
as to support me; and the Unitarian church did the same with their regular morning
service, evidences of fraternal fellowship which we all fully appreciated.
Farewell to Australia.
The following day, Monday, we said goodbye to Australia, as at 1.20 p.m., the ss.
'Sonoma' bore us away to New Zealand, thus commencing our homeward journeyings. A
large number of friends came down to wish us 'bon voyage,' and amid congratulations on
the success of my visit, and regrets at its brevity, we parted with the friends, whose faces
were soon dimmed in the distance. The sail down the wonderful bay of Sydney is a sight
to be remembered, for the Sydyneyites are justly proud of their beautiful and picturesque
harbour, with s innumerable enchanting coves and verdure-clad coast lines. Britain's
power was symbolised by sundry grim men-of-war, and the commerce of the world was
represented by numerous flags of all nations. Gradually these were left behind, and,
presently, emerging from the silent majesty of the rocky Heads, we took deep water and
were afloat on the bosom of the Pacific Ocean, with Auckland, our objective, twelve
hundred miles before us. The Australian coast line gradually sunk lower and lower, and
finally vanished from our sight. My actual stay in Australia embraced the period between
September 4th, 1902, and June 15th, 1903, virtually nine months and a half, though some
four months of the time were devoted to New Zealand. We made many friends, received
much kindness, the work done was thoroughly appreciated, and, though the conditions of
the cause were not altogether satisfactory, the assurance was expressed on all sides that
my labours had done an immense amount of good. On that point I am old-fashioned
enough to ascribe the merits to ' Tien' and his able coadjutors, who, as ever, laboured
nobly and devotedly. I am not too proud, nor am I ashamed, to acknowledge the help and
work of the unseen in all my public missions.
My Second Visit to New Zealand
Four days after leaving Sydney we entered the spacious harbour of Auckland, after a
smooth and rapid passage. At that time there were four or five cases of small-pox at
Dunedin, some seven hundred miles away, on the South Island, but so scared were the
port medical authorities that we were subject to a rigid and tiresome medical
examination before the steamer was permitted to ‘tie up' at the wharf; while, as Sydney
was an ‘infected’ port, owing to recent cases of bubonic plague, that was a further reason
for the careful scrutiny of the passengers, officers and crew. As we were declared clear of
44
disease a clean bill of health was accorded us. The only casualty we had was the death of
a child from intestinal consumption, the grief of the mother being most distressing. The
little body was buried at sea after the steamer sailed.
Prominent upon the wharf we saw Miss Florence Morse awaiting us, for she had been
lecturing on the islands for over three months, and had almost completed her labours in
Auckland. With her was her host, Mr. Robb, and it was our united good fortune to be
entertained by him and Mrs. Robb during our short, but happy, stay in the port. Mr. Robb
holds the position of the Ferry Master of the important Northcote Ferry Company, and
was consequently able to render us valuable assistance in landing our baggage, and
passing it through the Customs, each a proverbially tiresome affair. In the evening a
large number of the members of the Spiritual Church came to the home of our host, and
we received a charming informal welcome which gladdened us all three. Indeed the
friends had treated Miss Morse in the most kindly fashion, for they not only esteemed her
highly, but a positive affection was felt and manifested towards her. Her meetings had
been crowded to the doors, and her lectures and clairvoyance had greatly astonished all.
Lectures at an Oldtime Mining Centre
The search for gold is an absorbing passion with the Australasians. Scientific mining,
dredging, and deep lode exploration have displaced surface, placer, and pan-and-cradle
methods. Mining companies abound; mining exchanges gamble in stocks and shares, and
it is to be feared that many an investor has reason to regret ever dabbling in mine shares.
At one time the town of Thames, forty odd miles from Auckland, at the head of the
Hauraki Gulf, was a flourishing mining centre. Now, owing to the easily accessible
'levels' being exhausted, it is somewhat under a cloud commercially, large numbers of the
miners having left for other fields. Experimental deep borings are being made, and it is
confidently anticipated that gold will again be found, and the prosperity of the town re-
established. Three meetings were held in the Oddfellows' Hall; the attendances, while not
large, were satisfactory, and the daily paper reported the lectures satisfactorily. Miss
Morse also held two meetings, which afforded great pleasure to the local friends. We
were the guests of Mr. T. E. Hansen, as mentioned in my previous letter, and as his home
is some three hundred feet up the mountain side, and the view simply beautiful, we
thoroughly enjoyed our brief visit to our hospitable entertainers.
A Volcanic Wonderland
Undoubtedly the North and South islands of New Zealand were originally joined, and,
with Steward Island, constituted one land. The latter, and smaller island, is in the south,
and but a few miles from the mainland. But the two main divisions are separated by Cook
Strait, a channel some thirty miles across at the narrowest part. The costal contour of the
North island especially discloses plain evidence of volcanic action in the long ago, and
occasional 'tremblers' show that the subterranean forces have not yet entirely spent their
energies. Indeed a seventy seconds' 'quake,' while I was in Wellington, left no doubt in my
mind on that point! However, it is in the middle of the North Island that the real
evidences of volcanic action are to be found. The locality is some hundred and seventy
45
miles south of Auckland, and covers an area of about fifty square miles. The principal
portion is the township of Rotorua, and the region includes the famous volcano
Tarawera, which erupted so disastrously some seventeen years ago, destroying the
famous formation known as the `pink' and `white' 'terraces,' overwhelming Maori
villages, and killing large numbers of the Maoris, who were smothered under floods of
lava and boiling mud.
The township mentioned is now a Government sanatorium, with natural sulphur, mud,
and hot mineral water baths. The waters rise from the earth, from springs and geysers, of
which latter several are constantly spouting in the public grounds of the establishment.
To watch the steam and water shooting up into the air is a sight to be remembered. As we
were told we should not leave the country without visiting the ‘Wonder land of New
Zealand,' acting on this advice we made the trip, and were well repaid for so doing.
Staying for two nights, we had one clear day to see just a few of the wonders of the town
itself, the native Pa, or village, and a trip to Whakarewarewa, The Dative Pa is called
Ohinemutu; it consists of a fairly numerous collection of wharves and houses, the most of
which were dirty-looking shanties. There is a mission church, and a remarkable native
monument erected to commemorate the Jubilee of Queen Victoria, whose bust adorns the
interior of the curious structure. The decoration is purely Maori, as is the carved work,
while the colouring is crude in form and weird in effect. At every few feet steam, and
sulphur fumes, rose from cracks in the earth, while occasionally one had to step aside
from small hot springs, in which dinners, enclosed in 'kits,' were being cooked!
The male population was evidently away at work, for women, children, dogs, and cats
made up the visible inhabitants. A short distance away from the Pa is a series of small
hot lakes, the water being too hot to hold a finger in for more than a second at a time.
Pathways around these lakes have been made, but one steps gingerly, for signs are
posted warning visitors not to leave the paths, for to do so is to run the risk of sinking
through the thin crust of volcanic soil, which would mean being boiled to death! Three
miles by coach and Whakarewarewa is reached. In this township there are condensed
about as much hair-raising sensations as is desirable for one day, at least; spouting
geysers which throw boiling water from fifty to three hundred feet up into the air;
bottomless holes in which mud of varying colours and consistencies bubbles and boils
amid sickening noises-in one case like nothing so much as the grunting of pigs; sulphur
fumes emitted through rifts in the rocks and encrusting the formation with a brilliant
yellow deposit; caves and mounds made ages ago when the crater was active, and
everywhere a haunting sense of insecurity owing to the trembling of the crust as we
wended our way round under the careful guidance of 'Maggie,' the renowned Maori
guide who piloted the Duke and Duchess of York on the occasion of their visit. Through
the `reserve,' for the district is under Government control, a picturesque stream winds its
way, the water being quite cold, and abounding in trout. At one place, right at the side,
with barely fifteen inches between it and the river, is a small pool of boiling water. The
natives catch the fish with one hand from the stream, and then, with the other, drop it into
the pool, where it is soon beautifully cooked! We returned to our hotel beside the lovely
lake, and the island of Mokoia, tired with much sight-seeing, and the next morning
started for Auckland, the `express' (?) occupying some seven and three-quarter hours for
46
the 170 miles. I reserve the account of my final labours in, and departure from,
Australasia until my next communication, merely adding, as the closing item, that we all
arrived in this city in safety on Monday, July 27th, glad to be that much nearer home.
San Francisco, Cal., U.S.,
August 7th
, 1903.
==================================
How to obtain this Newsletter
The Psypioneer newsletter is at present available, complete with all back issues on
the web site http://www.woodlandway.org and we are greatly indebted to our Australian
friends for hosting and posting this Newsletter. You can obtain it free and direct by
sending an e-mail entitled “Subscribe” to psypioneersub@aol.com or “Unsubscribe” to
discontinue.
To contact Psypioneer please e-mail psypioneer@aol.com
Paul J. Gaunt
47
