{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1847__newman___philosophy_of_charming.pdf","mytitle":"Philosophy Of Charming","mylang":"de"}
FA SCI NAT I 0N,
oa ,.••
l•HJLOSOPHY OF CHARM lNG
ILLVURATI•e
THE PRINCil'Lgs OF LIPB
Dl CONJCECTION '11'11'8
SPIRIT AND MATTER.
BY JOHN B. NEW.l\IAN, M.D•
•urruoa OJ' YAiilO"'JB \VORIS ON NATURAL RIITOBT. 820
T E N T H T H 0 U S A N D.
NEW YORK:
FOWLER &: WELLS CO., PUBLISHERS,
775 BaoADWAY.
Digitized by Coogle
Entered, accorcUDg to Act of Cougreee, In tbe year lStf,
Br FOWLERS & WELLS,
la t.be Clerk'• otllee of t.be District Court of t.be Sout.bern Dtatrtct of
New York.
Be-But.ered, according to Act of COIIgreall, In t.be year 18'11,
BY 8. R. WELLS & CO.,
Ia tbe <>alee of tbe IJbrarlan of Congreee, Wuh!DpoD, D.C.·
Digitized by Coogle
PIEFACI
lr II related 1f Epimenidee, one of the IB8"' :f antiquity, that be W
llleep iDa cave and remaiued ill that etate IIOIDe 'ean. Wbeu be awoke,
everythillg wu altered arooud him, aoo he IICIU'OIIIy !mew where be wu
During hie abeence be afBrmed that be bad familiar illtercoune with epU..
Ita, and obtained the gift of prophecy, etc. He- reported able to die-
mlee hie eoul from hie body, and recall it at pleuure. So high wu bil
reputation for 18Dctity, that duriDg a plague iD Attica, 696 B. C., the
.&theulane ant for him to perform a luetratlon; iD oouequt111ce of which
tbe plague ceued.
8ome Oermau atudenta iD the 1ut ceutury, wiebiug to raiee the dfrril,
earried a pau of bumillg charcoal iDto a oiOM room, and throwillg m 11
ftrioaa preecribed eubstaocea, danoed around it, chanting a magic form:Jla
Obe of them fell dead, and the reet, upon -iog hie fate, tied with diS!
ealty ; the iDcaotatiou, they thought, bad eridently been too powerful
A profeeeor iu the eame ouivereity accounted for th• facta by the poieoll
- lolueoce of llxed air (carbonic acid gu) ~t~~~erated by the f.coited
llU'boo; and oAred to produce the gu at pi~. He - m.taatly
--.1 from thie of baYing illtercoune with famDiar epirite.
8cieoce bee long Iince eodoreed the prof-'• eolution, and to doullt fa
at the ~t day would betray groa ignorance. Not eo fortaoate, how·
ever, - Epimenidee, Cor it ie oaly In our own timet that bill claime have
been acknowledged; and from the want of more exteaded illformatioo, .
many are eveu now iocreduiOUL Increuing light will induce belief, and
It ie my 8IU'I1ftll wieh that the following peges may tend to that result.
111m beeidet eoul and matter, Jli*C- an illtermediate principle cU.
tmct from and between both, called the life power: or iD the words of
Bonard, "be Ia an intelligtlllce ee"ed by orgme"-tbeee organs beiDg th•
1181'YUII of the life power, by which it operatet upon the material world,
and ie ill tum operated upon by it. A proper knowledge of the life power
Ia a key to explaiD all the phenomena of!Ucination ; and thie it ie the ob
lect of the preeent work to cemmunicate. A very conciee bot perfectiJ
lear idM of pbys:ology ie given, and >D thie the foundation Ia 1ald.
Digitized bvGoogle
fl
The Delpblo prfeetea lnbaled fixed air lo act oil the life powl:ll' la 100.
a ~er aa lo 08018 the 'Plrittlal in the eyetem lo prept1nderate oyer
lbe ..w.rial, that the might the better give her reapon18L In eome caaet
eo great waa the preponderance aa to 08018 death; the prieete. ebarin(l
the ate of the German etndent (who acoompliahed hie deeil'fl), and by tbe
eamo me&DI. When the wiebed-for change il induced, new powers or
inetinota, previoualy dormant, become euddeuly developed; and like the
lower animala, who, when eick, run and devour the herb 11uited 1o their
- · a like facnlty of properly preecribing remediee ia perceived-the
epiritnal world ia often beheld, and ita denizene eometimee give the aleep
wakera information of eventa that will ehortlyllappen. History teU. ue
that the coming of Cortez, and hie conqaeet of their nation, had been
told the Mexicane long before a Spaniard waa ever heani of; and the
journal.a of the miaeionariee etationed at the Pacific ialee will p-t eimi-
lar facta.
We oan now- why the brazier waa Ol8d in the incantation or the
etudent, and the probability of Epimenidee undergoing a change upon en-
tering a certain cavern (likely by accident the first time) wherein fixed
air wu generated. Hia pow:ers ofcnring disease, having interco-urae with
epirita, and predicting events, are thua explained. It should be remark•
ed here, that none bat those prediapoeed lo the change, can experience
It; all artificial eflbrta 1o iodnce it. except in anch, resulting in almoet
certain insanity or death.
Like many others in my profeeaion, I waa a bitter eaemy to r..oination
till accidentally led lo examine it; bot having done eo, found the ph•
oomena it p,._nted, though new and etartling, in etrict acoordance with
the laws of life. In explaining my viewe, I ha\·e written fot; the people,
entirely diapeneing with technical term• except in one or two inetance..
That their perusal may clear up in the minds of otbere u many obecure
and myeteriODI pointe u they did in hia own. and thuiUbllerYe the inter
.. of truth ia the eincere deeire or tbe
AC'IHOJL
Digitized by Coogle
•
CONTENTS
CONVERSATIO:t-
CJUJUIIMO
fopclar news on fucination-lbftuence or the imagillatlon-li.
pun of Jllllieu to the French Academy-Recordt of the exiatence
of !Uoinatiou for three tbouADd yean-Proceea of fucinatiOD-
Cbooaing the name-Snake charming-Anecdote&-Man charming-
Anecdotes-Rationale of fucinstion-NervotU vapor-Charming of
men-Man can fascinate man-Man can fascinate the lower animat.-
The lowoqo animals can fascinate man-The lower animala can !Uoi-
llllte one another-Young pei'IODB eleeping with old-King DP.vid-
~-te~vage nationa-Lower animala-Poe&ry, 11..(
CONVERSATION II.
DISCOVERY OP PASCIMA.TION.
Adam acquainted with fascination-The town of Manaoul bnllt bJ
King Sbaddai in the oonntry of Universe-Its privileges, and their
forfeiture-Locality of heaven-Material world contained in the .pa..
ltnal-Encampment of angele-Stephen-Eiiaba and bia servant-
Idolatry-DPcovery of tiucination after the deluge-Worship of S..
tan-Headlen magi the first tiucinatora, and their apotheosis-Mer-
cary and hia caducetU-Prieats of India-our Saviour accnaed of
ttealing aecrets from Egypt-Caaea of corea-Priests of Egypt-
Life principl-Matter governed by lawa oC ila own-Vepcable
~ . •·•
CONVERSATION DL
PHYSIOLOGY.
'1'llel t1111D ' - two Hvea may be ceducoo from the lllll'fttift al hill
.....,m 8- propertiea of the living principle expltined-W
Digitized by Coogle
CONTBI!f'l'S.
tion of ill8tinct-lllustratione--Human onderatanding-Hooae of the
eool-lllode1Jing of bone-Anecdote-Men taller in the morning than
at night-Two hundred. and forty-eight bones, and five hundred di.-
"inct muaclee in the humar; body-Caterpillars-Elephaut-Embryc
-DigK:5ve proceu-Storuach and gastric joice-Liver and bil-
Pancreas and theirjuice-Chyle, and ita passage through the lactealJ
and meaentericglande--Wheel5 of life moving on iron nxi-IIeart
pumps through it two hogsheads of blood per hour-Qne hundred
and forty gallons of air Wed per hour in respiration-Nervooa sys-
lem-Gadfty without feeling-Transmigration of the human em
DI'JO, ...
CONVERSATION IV.
DOUBLB LIFE OF MAN.
NeM'el ofanimal and \"egetable life-Henrt inaensible--BeparatioD
of the two liv-Anecdotes-John HtlDter-Colonel Townshend-
Wesclotr-Ganglion of the understanding-Phrenology-Seat of the
soul-Two brains-Organs of animal life double-Insanity-Bleep-
Sight without the eye-Hearing without the ear-Nervous vapor the
fluid used in fascillation-Physicians mould in all cases operate, or
snperintend the operation-Six stages of fascination-First stsge-
ldioeyucruy-Anecdot~-Danger of slighting the warnings ofantip-
athy-Second and third stagee--Mr. Braid, of Manchester-Fourth,
fifth, and sixth stages-What are small causes-Egyptian prieeta-
Jrigen-Apollooios Tyanneue--Pythagoras-Hippocrates, 63-7•
CONVERSATION V.
SPIRITUAL STATBS.
Trance of William Tennant-'-Delirium tremens a kind of traa.,.,
8eM'ont of Elisha-King Saul and the witch of Endor-Naaman IIDd
Elisha-Power of the Jews to cast out devile--Solomon'e knowledge
IUid channs-F.Ieazar cnstil out a devil in tho presence of Vespuian
IUid Joaephue--Sons of Sceva-Robert Cochran's method of impart.
lng the Holy Ghn•t-!\lonnoni•m cxpo11ed-Pretentled miracl-
8wedeubnrg nntl his theory-Value of dead phyaiology-Rejectioa
of the Trinity-F.pistil'; w•t tu he rnaltreatetl-Cluil-voynnce of 9we-
dcnborg. nntl hi• communication with the spiritual worl<I-Shnp6 11
the lifo puw••r-Atnputntt,.J lirnl•.
•-Calvin's entrance to the spiritual
WorJoJ- S<•ert'SM 0~ f'r<"'""r<l-• fit•IU:tr·kaftJ,. ftoy, • • 8o-fl
Digitized by Coogle
CONV.ERSA.TION VL
STAGES IN DYING.
Dea:h is the sixth atage of faacination-No pain in dying- mo..
ntiooa-Dr. Adam Clark-Account of hanging-Decompoeition
3le only eure mark of death-Premature interments--Resuscitation-
Tbeepoeios of Soli-Methodist commWlion-Dr. David N'<3lson, and
bia Ca1188 and Cure of Infidelity-Theories in regard to tbe brain-
• Matenalism-Deatb-bed scenes-Opening of the spiritual eight-
Difference between really dying and only thinking ourselves dying-
nlUitrative cases-The Infidel-The Christian-Different cl- of
&mciea belong to different individuals according to their belief, If· 101
CONVERSATION VII
OPERATION OF MEDICIIU.
Worma on the rae-Purifying the blood-Constaolel in tbe
\)o.Jy-Briny peaches-Self-moving porter-houses-Spontaneous com-
bqation-Anatomy-Physiology-Pathology-Operation of medicine
wellknown-Vis Medicatrix Naturm-Natural history of the do~~o
moo-Experiments upon it-Exampl" of the conservative power
on the human ayotem~l\fedicinea-Arsenic-How to discover alte~~o
atio111 in the life power-Illustration-Active plan of treatment-
F.xpectant plan of treatment--Faacination inducing diseaee-Expl.-
nation of the water cu~Hom<eopathy-Hannehman a fascinatoz--
Why is Hom<eopathy patronized-Action ofsalt on· the blood in yel·
~w fnez--Tranofusion of blood-Our bodies change every seven
reu-VIIlCiination-True church of phyaiciana, Uo-116
CONVERSATION VIII.
PREVISION.
r.culty of prevision-Organic prevision-Revealed prevtatoo-
Otganio prevtaion ohown in the lower animala-Anecdotea-MedJ.
cal practice derived !Tom brutes-Cue of Pierre Cazot--Caee of &o.
ratee-The philosopher Cazotte's l&mous prediction-P-ges in tbe
life of Joan of Arc atteoting prevision-Experience of the stateamiUl
Beiuricb Zacb >kke illuatrath~ of revealcJ prcvi"iou--Anecdote, 124-1411
Digitized by Coogle
I
CONVERSATION IX.
80Xl'UJIBtl'Ll8X•
PbDoeophy ofmyatery-Bomnambuliam-Anecdo~l mOr.
lieu-·&urce of life-Pain necellllll'y in aurgical Oferatioa.-Soato
aambulism reecuea faacination from the imputations of torcery aad
the black art -Dendy considen meemeriam true-Pixey and fairy-
Tailor's gwu-dian angel-Marcua-Anecdotee-Performing J~
Mr. Koggenbach-Btory of Profe110r Upham-Captab Brown-Mr.
John Wise-8omnambuliam induced by diseue-Aoecdotee-Som-
IIIUDbuliem induced by medicinal agenta-Anecdotea-O.Wcee of
witches true, and nature of the ingredieuta thrown by them in the
010uldron-Anecdotea- Townshend's sleep-waking-8omnambnlio
maaic for the flute-Cataleptic phenomena, • · 144-1M
CONVERSATION X.
HISTORY OF F.lSCIN.lTIOif.
History of Faacination-Bt. Martin-St. Anthony-Royalty of
France-James of England-Charles of France-Battle of Ja~
Van Helmont-Valentine Greatraka-Gaaaner-Meamer-Puaeygv
-Perkins' tracton-United StatN-Faacination a key to the varioaa
JUpentitions of the world-George Bush-Dilemma of Bwedenbol'l
·-Directions for operating in faacination-Alarming aymptomaaboulll
not diaconcert the operator-Illuatratione-ll'he object of f'uoinatioD
CIUllltive not experime~~tai-Newnbam-Delenze-CollclUiioa, 11J-UI
APPENDIX.
LBTTER FROM RBV. W. H. BIBOBD,
Au.tiog, by his ;,wn experience, without &.DY pre.- bJwl.
Jdge of the subject, d!e reality of the influence of' r.cinatloa, ,...
~-mena of previlic :. clairvoyanr:e, eto., • 11'1-lff
Digitized by Coogle
F A S C I N A 'f I 0 N
CONVERSATION I.
LAn. My dear doctor, I can never sufficiently thacll
· you for the relief you have afforded me by your treat
ment. I h9.d been for years on the verge of the grave,
and without the expectation of ever being, even for one
:lay, free from pain. The first time you fascinated me
I experienced an incredible change-my pains ceased
the heart beat regularly, and my appetite returned, and
what is better still, my improvement has been rapio
and thorough since th~n. I confess this freely, as it
will preface what I am afraid will give you some pain.
My friends attribute my recovery to imagination, and
seem to think 1 was not really ill, but only nervous;
and they suppose that a sufficient degree of irritatiou
would make me as bad as I was at first.
DocToR. They meDtioned, no doubt, many wonderful
cas~ of the effects of imagination on the body.
J.Anv. Yes, and some as strange as my own The
eases that had the most effect on my mind were that of
1oe, the Scottish drover, who was persuaded to believe
bimself sick, and in consequence really became so-and
would have died had not the joke been discovered to
~Pro--end that of the criminal whom the phyaiciarur
Digitized by Coogle
12 IHAGlNA!'lOl'f.
pretended to bleed to death. and who actually dted trom
the fancied loss of blood.
DoCToR. That imagination exercises a powerful in·
fluence upon our bodies, is an undoubted fact; but it ia
equally a fact that it has full credit for all it performs.
J ussieu, one of the commissioners appointed to examine
d1is subject by the French Ar.ademy in 1784, states, as
the result of a series of assiduous and attentive investi·
gations, that he had observed some facts that admitted
of physiological explanations ; others which seemed to
militate against animal magnetism ; a third seriu of
facts which he attributed to the imagination ; and.
lastly, those which could lead to no other conclusilnt
than that of admitting a particular agent in their pro-
duction.
LADY. I had no idea the subject was known as far
back as 1784 ; I thought it a new discovery of the
present day.
Doc'J'oa. We have authentic records showing its
existence for upward of three thousand years. I have
been examining some authorities, and, if you are suf·
ficiently interested in the matter, will take considerable
pleasure in submitting the result of my labors to you;
and also explaining the connection of fascination with
the laws of life.
LADY. I am very much obliged to you for the oJfer,
and will hold you to your promise. To tell the truth, I
was on the point many times of asking the same thing;
f\)r I find it to be the universal opinion of every one J
am acquainted with, that, if true, it is something allied to
witchcraft, 8J,d if not true, the greatest humbug of the
age; and, despite my own experience, I -:-ften feel \'el')
untnsy about it.
Digitized by Coogle
VA&IOUS JIIA.MI& lS
UoOToa. • do not wonder at your feelings ; but, in
relation to its effect on the imagination, I would ask f
you believed in fascination before I saw you 1
f,ADY. I had never heard anything abou it. Or.e
day, when you came in and found the medicine had as
usual produced no effect, after some conversation on
ordinary matters, you directed me to sit down and look
attentively in your eyes, at the same time taking hold of
my hands. In a little time a rather uneasy feeling stole
over me, whieh soon became pleasant and exhilarating;
before long I felt sleepy, a dreamy and triumphant
'Jensation succeeded, and my eyelids closed without the
power to open them. My pains vanished, and when
you opened my eyes, I felt better than I had done for
years ; and to the surprise of all my acquaintances, who
predicted a speedy relapse, my recovery has been rapid
md permanent.
DoCToR. Well, then, your case cannot surely be
'lttributed to imagination.
LADY. I never thought it could; but why do you
name your new science Fascination 1 Others call it
Mesmerism, or Animal Magnetism.
DoCToR. You are mistaken in supposing it to be a
separate science ; it is only a part of medicine. And
besides the names you have mentioned, Mental Elec-
tricity, Neurology, Pathetism, Sychodunamy, and many
others, are in tum used to signify it. The forces of
life, as I shall explam in another place, brook no inter·
ference from those of Chemistry or Mechanics, so that
auch terms as Magnetism and Electricityare inapplicable.
Mesmer did not discover anything new. Neurology
treats only of the nerves. Pathetism is a term derived
from the Greek, meaning suffer~ and SychodunamJ
2
Digitized by Coogle
.....
•• I!IIUKB CSA&IrUfC',
is another word from the same language, meanmg the
force of the sou). Now, as we have a word in our
language already expressive o. the power in the lower
animals, I saw no necessity to add another, especially
as Fascination is universally acknowledged.
LADY. You surely do not mean the charming of
snakes 1
DoCToa. You have exactly expressed my idea ; for
the power in man and the lower animals is exert&!
through the same medium, and produces, to a certar1
extent, the same results. Do you remember any case 1
of the fascination of snakes?
LADY. Quite a number. Professor Silliman mentlor 1
that in June, 1823, he crossed the Hudson at Cattskill, i l
company with a friend, and was proceeding in a ca
riage by the river along the road, which is there ver ,
n~trrow, with the water on one side, and a steep bani,
covered by bushes, on the other. His attention at that
place was arrested by observing the number of small
birds, of different specieil, flying across the road and
then back again, and turning and wheeling in manifold
gyrations, and with much chirping, yet making no
progress from the particular place over which they
fluttered. His own and his friend's curiosity was much
excited, but WB.I!I soon satisfied by observing a black
snake of considerable size, partly coiled and partly erect
from the ground, with the appearance of great anima-
tion, his eyes brilliant, and his tongue rapidly and inces-
santly brandishing. This reptile they perceived to be
the ca•Jse and centre of the wild motions of the birds.
The excitement, however, ceased as soon na the snake
alarmed by the approach of the carriage, retired into
the bushes ; tbto birds did not escape, but, aliAhting upoa
Digitized by Coogle
IffAltB CBA&JilffO. ..
the neighboring branches, probably awaited the re-ap
pearance of their cruel tormentor and enemy
I have read of a man residing in Pennsylvania. who
returning from a ride in warm weather, espied a black·
bird, and a large blacksnake viewing the bird. The
latter was describing circles, gradually growing smaller
aroWl.d the snake, and uttering cries of distress. The
bird had almost reached the jaws of its enemy, when
the man with his whip drove off the snake, and the bird
changed his note to a song of joy.
A gentleman himself told me that while travelling
one day, by' the side of a creek, he saw a ground-squir·
rei running to and fro between the creek and a great
tree a few yards distant. The squirrel's hair looked
very rough, which showed he was much frightened;
and his returns being shorter and shorter, my friend
stood to observe the cause, and soon discovered the
head and neck of a rattlesnake pointing directly at the
squirrel through a hole of the great tree, which was
hollow. The squirrel at length gave over running, and
laid himself quietly down, with his head close to the
anake's. The snake then opened his mouth wide, and
took in the squirrel's head, when a cut of the whip
across his neck caused him to draw in his head, which
action, of course, released the squirrel, who quickly ran
into the creek.
.DoCToR. Dr. Good mentions the curious fascinating
powet the rattlesnake, in particular, has over vru:ioua
1mall animals, as birds, squirrels, and leverets, which.
incapable of turning off their own eyes from those ot
the serpent-enchanter, and overpowered with terror anca
amazement, seem to struggle to get away, and yet pro
creeaively approach him. as though urged fhrward ()'
Digitized by Coogle
l6 8JfAK& OJiAllllHQ.
attracted by a power superior to that ofnatura. instinct
till at length they enter, apparently without foreiga
iorce, into the serpent's mouth, which had all along been
open to receive them, and are instantly devoured. The
larger kind11 of various snakes have undoubtedly a simi·
Jar power. Dr. Barrow, in his Travels into the interior
of South America; asserts this to be a fact, well known
to almost every peasant in that quarter of the world;
and Vailhmt, in his Travels into Africa, affirms that, at
a place called Swortland, beholding a shrike in the very
act of fascination by a large serpent at a distance, the
fiery eyes and open mouth of which it was gradually
approaching, with convulsive tremblings, and the most
piteous shrieks of distress, he shot the serpent before
the bird had reached it ; still, however, the bird did not
tty, and on taking it up, it was already dead, being killed
either by fear or the fascinating influence of the ser-
pent, although, upon measuring the ground, he found
the space between them to be no less than three feet
and a half. There is a case, much in point, inserted in
nne of the early volumes of the Philosophical Transac-
tions, which states that a ~ouse, put by way of experi·
ment into a cage in which a female viper was confined,
appeared at first greatly agitated, and v·as afterward
Jeen to Jraw near to the viper gradually, which con-
tinued motionless, but with fixed eyes and distended
mouth, and at length entered into its jaws, and waa
devoured.
LADY. If any of the lower a.aimals could be fasei
nated by mnn, I shQuld think that would be a certain
proof, not only of the reality of the power, but that i.a
did not exert Its influen::e through the i~agination.
DocroL Animals of ate days have been frequentlJ
Digitized by Coogle
IIBN OB.AUIINCJ. 11
fucinated for purposes of experiment, and a universa~
rigidity of the muscles produced to such au extent as to
cause them to resemble pieces of statuary, so that tho
animal could be taken up and its whole weight 11upported
by one foot.....:.atld this state produced and continued at
pleasure. Mr. Bruce, the gre~Jt African traveller. dia·
tinctly states, from minute personal observation, that all
the blacks in the kingdom of Sennaar, whether Funge
or Nuba, are perfectly armed by nature against the bite
of either scorpion or viper. They take the horned aer·
pents in their hands at all times, put them into their
bosoms, and throw them nt one another, as children do
apples or bells; during which sport the serpents are seJ
dom irritated to bite, and when they do bite, no mischief
ensues from the wound. The influence exerted upon
them is so great that they are scarcely ever able to
attempt any resistance, even when eaten up alive, aa
\Jruce assures us he has seen them, from tail to head,
.1ke a carrot. He also positively affirms that they con-
•tantly sicken the moment they are laid hold of, and are
aometimes so exhausted by this invisible power or fasci·
nation, as to perish as effectually, though not as quickly,
as though struck by lightning. "I constantly observed,"
aays he, "that, however lively the viper was before,
upon being seized by any of these barbarians, he seemed
as if taken with sickness and feebleness, frequently s!&u&
•u eyes, and never turned his mouth toward the arm of
the person that held him."
1'his power is often used by man to disarm the fury
of the most enraged or vicious quadrupeds. This i~
peculiarly seen at times in the case of watchdogs over
whom some house-breakers have found out the secret of
"''erci•ing so seduc.tive anJ quieting a power as to ~ee~
2•
Digitized bvGoogle
I
j
I
I'
II MaN OBARIIIJ.O.
•hem 'n a profound silence while the burglary is com
mtttea. Linde~rantz, of Sweden, tells us that the na..
.ives of Laplnnd and Dalarne are in possession of thia
secret generally, insomuch that they can instantly dis-
llrm the most furious dog, and ob.ige him to fty from
them, with all his usual signs of fear, such as dropping
the tail, and becoming suddenly silenL
Grooms are sometimes found possessed of a similar
power over horses. Mr. Townsend gives a str.king
anecdote to this effect in his account of James Sullivan.
The man-an awkward, ignorant rustic of the lowest
class-was by profession a horse-breaker, and generally
nicknamed the whisperer, from ita being vulgarly sup-
posed that he obtained his influence over unruly horses
by whispering to them. The actual secret of his fasci-
nating power, it is very likely, was unknown to himself
for it di~d with him, his son, who was in the same oceu.
pation, knowing nothing of iL It was well known to
every one that, however unbroken or vicious a horse OJ
8\'en a mule might be when brought to him, in the short
epace of half nn hour he became altogether passive
undt.'r his inllu~nce, and was not only entirely gentle
and tractable, but in a very considerable degree contin-
ued so, though somewhat more submissive to himself
Jum to others. There was a little mystery in his plan,
bvt unquestionably no deceiL When sent tor to tame an
unruly horse, he ordered the stnble-door to be shut upon
himself nnd the a.nim:l) atone, and not to be opened
until a !o!i'·<'n si~nal. This singular intercourse usuallv
la~tt'tl f,,r a.h.•ut half an h,•ur; no bustle was he.vd, or
violt'll''" !llc'\'lllllH:ly had tt"''''urse to: but when the door
wu o~~ned. ''n th~ pr•'l"'r $i).!'ll being ~l"e.n, the hone
was alway~ lf'<'ll I~ in:.; ' ...., atlll the iascinator by hit
Digitized by Coogle
NEaVOUB VAPOl. 11
lide, playing with him familiarly i.S a child with a
puppy. Mr. Townsend once saw nis s.Kill trie:l on a
horse that could never be brought to stand for a smith
to shoe him. The day after Sullivan's half-hour lecture.
he went, not without some incredulity, to the smith'a
&hop with many other curious spectators, who were eye-
witnesses of the complete success of his art. This, too,
had been a troop horse, and it was supposed, not with-
out reason, that after regimental discipline had failed, no
other would be found availing. He observed the ani-
mal seemed afraid whenever Sullivan either spoke to
or looked at him. In common cases, the mysterio011
preparation of a private interview was not necessary,
the animal becoming tame at once.
LADY. Has no person ever attempted to explain thi1
wonderful influence 1 for the facts seem to have heeD
known a considerable time.
DocToR. Yes, though some have doubted the facts,
for, as Dr. Good remarks, in the marvellous it is alway•
far more easy to doubt than to determine. By faT the
best explanation, and one with which I entirely coincide,
is thai of Major A. Gordon, of South Carolina, the
rationale of which I will enter upon after a little time.
In a paper of his, he attributes the fascinating power
supposed to be possessed by serpents, to a vapor which
they secrete, and can· throw around them to a certaiD
distance at pleasure. He advances various facts ia
eupport of this opinion, and ob11erves that the vapor
produces a sickening and stupefying effect; and rJludet
to a negro wln, from a peculiar acuteness of smell,
could discover a rattlesnake at a distance of two hun·
dred feet, when in the exercise of this power, from hi1
11111U being effected by it, and who, on fo.lowing 1ucf.
• Digitized by Coogle
.....
MEN CHARMED.
indication, a.ways found some animal drawn withm ita
vortex, and struggling with its influence.
LADY. Does man possess the power of throwing of
a similar vapor 1
DocToR. Undoubtedly; the instruments in both are
the same, and these instruments I wiT! take occasion to
tfescribe to you, and explain their mode of operation.
LADY. I should think it possible, in that case, for
animals, in some instances, to fascinate man.
DocToa. We have well-attested instances of their do-
ing so. I remember reading, some time since, of a man
walking out in his garden, who accidentally saw a anake
·,n the bushes, and, observing the eyes gleam in a pecu·
liar manner, watched it closely, but soon found himself
unable to draw his own eyes off. The snake, it appeared.
to him, soon began to increase immensely in size, and
assume, in rapid succession, a mixture of brilliant colora
He grew dizzy, and would have fallen in the direction
..,f the snake, to which he felt himself irresistibly im-
pelled, had not his wife come up, and, throwing her arms
around him, dispelled the charm, thus saving him from
certain destruction. There are too many of these sto-
ries to mention a tithe of them; so I will conclude with
but one more that is very generally known. Two men
in Maryland were walking together, when one found
fault with his companion because he stopped to look at
something by the road-side. Perceiving he did not heed
him, he returned to draw him along, when he perceived
the other's eyes were fixed upon a rattlesnake, which
had its head raised and eyes glaring at him. The poor
1ellow was leaning toward the snake, and crying pite-
()Usly, in a feeble t ne, "He will bite me I he will bise
JWte." "Sure enou...~ he will," said his friend, "if JOIG
I:ING DA'lliD. 21
io not run off. What are you staying here for 1" Find·
ing him Jumb to all entreaties, he struck down the
anake with a limb of a tree, and pulled his companion
violently away. The man, whose life was thus provi-
dentially saved, found himself very sick for some hours
after his enchantmenL
LADY. I must express my astonishment at the new
light in whtch you have presented the whole subject to
my mind. There can possibly be no cavilling·at any of
the positions you have assumed.
DocToa. I give you the result of my own conclu-
sions, after considerable study, and, from what has been
ehown, I think we may prove four things:-
First : That man can fascinate man.
Second : That man can fascinate the lower animals.
Third : That the lower animals cnn fascinate one
another.
Fourth: That the lower animds can fascinate man.
Townsend remarks, that if we wish to seek for a
general instance of the power one human being possesses
over ano!her, with regard to the influence of fascination,
we have only to look at the effects produced when
young persons sleep with old. It is recorded of tqe
Psalmist, King David, that, when he became very old,
he got a young damsel to sleep with him, that, from her
vigorous life, he might obtain a supply to lengthen out
his days. Some painful instances of this kind came un-
der his own observation--one in which the future well-
being of a person very dear to him was compromised ;
and he was acquainted with an infirm old lady, who was
10 perfectly aware of the benefit she derived from sleep-
mg wtth young persons, that, with a sort of holl'id vam
pireiam, she alw1ys obliged her maid to •bare the 181111
Digitized by Google
8AVAGil IIAQ1tJ1AN8.
bed with •.er ; thus successively destroying the health
of several attendants.
The celebrated German physiologist, Hufeland, has
remarked the longevity of schoolmasters, and attribut~!
it to their living so cvnstantly amid the healthy emana-
tions of young persons.
It may be well to mention, in this connection, the fact
that savage nations, generally, practice fascination.
They rub or pat one another when fatigued, and it
refreshes. The wife of one of the Sandwid1 Island
missionaries, on a visit to this country, some years since,
exclaimed, on returning from a long and tiresome walk.
that had completely exhausted 11er strength: " Ifl was
home, the native women, by patting me, would soon
give me complete relief from this weariness, and make
<ne feel as lively as ever." The rites and gestures of
1avage magicians, the medicine-men of the wilds, over
heir patients, which so much alarm travellers, are
1othing more than fascinating passes to cure disease-a
method, too, that very generally succeeds.
Even among animals, it has been found that the
young cannot be too closely associated with the old
without suftering detriment. Young horses, standing in
a stable beside old ones, become less healthy, and, in
tirre, weak and sickly.
LADY. And you say these wonders can all be ex-
plained, in accordance with what is already known of
the laws of life 7
Dooroa. With the utmost certainty.
LADY. But do you really think it possible that I can
ever understand them f I am fearful that I have not
ltreogtb enough of mind to pry into such mysleries.
Dlam>J. The tubie-~t is not difficult, by any me~~t~
Digitized by Coogle
SUBJECT B.U'f.
and a moderate degree of perseverance is only necea
aary to master the whole. If you like, we will spend a
:ittle time to-morrow in its examination, nnd, in the
meanwhile, I will leave you Mrs. Abdy's lines on fasci•
nation, which prove, in a pleasing enough manner, thai
tbere can be some poetry in the subject :-
He atanda before a gathered throng, atrange knowledge to unf'olc1,
Channing the dazzled fancy like the fairy-talee of old ;
Yet moat he brook the idle jest, the cold and doubting aneer,
Hct b&th 110 beaten petll to tread, no pi'IICtilcd cour~~e to ateer.
The wondro1111 ~eienlle that be etrivee to bring to life and light,
Ia aoftly, faintly breaking from the misty abadea of night;
And acoffing prejudice upbraids the pure and genial ray,
Because it doth not burst at once to bright and beaming day.
He tell• the healing benefits tbat through this power arise;
How sweet and soothing sleep may eeal the weary mourner'• eyea
How raging madneu may be checked; bow anlferera may obtain
The boon of deep oblivion from tho keenest throba of pain.
Anon be dwells on lof'tier themes, and ahows bow mind may claba
An empire independent of the atill and alumboring frame.
Can ye doubt the proofs, ye careiC811 throng, anbmitted to your Yiew
Can ye hold them in derision, because yet untried add new l
i[now tbat improvements ever wend a tardy couree on earth 1
And though Wiadom's mighty goddeu gained perfection at her ...
Her children reach by slow degrees the vigor of their prime,
for the wiadom of this lower world reqniree the growth of time.
None wish ye on the atatementa of a mngle Yoice to reet;
The marvela ye have witneued ye are urged to proYe and tellI
Baney them in their varied foi'IIUI-inquire-obaerve-inepeot-
Watch-editate-compere-delay-do all thinga but neglect'
It ye '-r in mind the leaaona that to-day ye have been tangbt,
, Ye need not lack materials for intense and stirring thoughtI
W my mmple lay can Ji•tlA atd on <>rator'• di.scolll'l8t
.. pted with the euer~ :I iutellect·~al fo~
Digitized by Coogle
POJrr&Y.
But r uk ye if your cheril.:OeJ ones sharp anguish should tmd1ae
Which lhe stated arts of medicine had in vain e888yed t..• curet
Would it not grieve ye to reflect ye might !hose panga allay,
Bllt that, jestingly and mockingly, ye cast that me'llls away r
Mistake me not-I prize not aoght, however great or wise,
If held not in aubjectio1;1 to the God who rules the sk.i~s;
To me all knowledge would be poor, all splendor would be cH.a
All boona nnsafe, all joys ontrue. onlesa derived from Him.
And if eagerly this wondrous power I witnesa and approve,
lt is becall86 I know no bounds to Heaven'• amazing loYe.
ADd 1cannot, by the pedant rulee of critic caation. 8CIUl
1'1le depth~ ci tJao. ubauiU.. pta Hie mon:J poara OD -
Digitized by Coogle
CONVERSATION II.
DISCOVERY OF FASCINATION.
DOCToa. I wish to prove, in our conversation to-day
that Adam was perfectly' aware of the power of fasci·
nation,together with clairvoyance, and those other mys-
teries that astonish so mur.h the people of the F•.:sen
day.
LADY. Why did he not r.ommunir.ate tms knowledge
t-> his descendantt;,SO that the matter might becomP
universal and undoubted 1
DocToR. I cannot answer better than in the words
of that veritable historian, John Bunyan, who tells us
that King Shaddai, in the sixth day of the year one, built
in the country of Universe a fair a11c.i ci~::.icate town,
called Mansoul, and endowed it with corporate priVI·
leges-a town for building so curious, for situation so
~tdvantageous, that there was not its equal on the face
of the whole world. Yea, it was so goodly, when first
built, that the gods, at the setting up of it, came down
to sing for joy. It was so mighty as to have dominion
over all the country round about it; for all were requirefi
to acknowledge it for their metropolitan, and do it
homage. It had commission and power from the king
to demand service of all, and also subdue those who in
any way opposed it.
There were certain gates in Mansoul, by which access
could be gained to the celestial country round about it;
end commun·on held with th~ 'llessf'ngers who were
3
Digitized by Coogle
TOW!! :JI MAlfSODi.
constantly coming and going from the court of Shaddai
The inhabitants took full advantage of all their glorioua
privileges, and conversed with the gods freely, so that.
nil the tin:te they continued under the dominion of its
builder, nothing but sounds of joy and praise wer.e
heard; but when, as is well known, they rebelled
against his government, and swore allegiance to Diabo-
lus, his enemy, a dreadful change came over them, and;
among the other enjoyments of which they were bereft.
the gates were closed that opened to the celestial coun-
try, and no communication through them, unless under
extraordinary circumstances, ever allowed. As the
gates became disused, they were gradually forgotten by
the many, and, for thousands of years, all remembrance
of them losL
LAov. Wliy, you do not surely think that heaven is
around us, and that, if we could see through those gates,
we would behold its glories at once 1 I have always
entertained the idea that the celestial country was an
· nmense distance off, and, when we died, there was a
ong journey to travel before it could be reached.
DooToR. That the material world is contained in the
spiritual, admits of direct proof, and a little reftectio11
will convince us at once of the fact. You know we are
told, that the angels thai encamp round about them that
fear the Lord, do always behold the face of our Father
which is in heaven. And were our senses not holden
until the .ime when we shall be caught up to meet the
J...ord in the air, we might see the cloud of witnesses
sllrveying our heavenward ra('(', and behold, as Stephen
did when he was martyred. heaven opened, anc. Jeaua
J!tting at the right hand of God.
LADY. J must confess it would please me beuer 110
Digitized by Coogle
CELESTIAL GAT...
ind some certain proof of this in the Bible, and also of
tome one who had seen it, that woul:i be immediately
~onvincing.
-DocToB.. You will be surprised, then, by an attentive
aamination of the sixth chapter of 2 Kings. When
gJisha's servant perr:eived his master's house surround-
t-1 by the warriors of the king of Syria, who evidently
eame with a hostile intent, he was extremely frightened.
tnd cried, "Alas, my master I how shall we do?" And
Elisha answered and said, "Fear not;' for they that be
with us are more than they that be with them." Bu; as
this did not quiet him, Elisha prayed, and said, "Lord. I
pray thee, open his eyes, that he may see." .A:ncl the
Lord opened the eyes of the young man, and he saw;
md, behold, the mountain was full of horses and chariots
.>f fire round about Elisha.
LADY. I am satisfied, but cannot help expressing my
'lstonishment at the clearness of all the proofs you brin!
fo~ard to sustain your positions. Do you suppose thol
practised fascination before the deluge 1
DocToR. Though they might be aware of the exint-
ence of the r.elestial gates, yet that the mode of openina
them, and also producing curative influence, was known
before the flood, it is, of course, out of our power to
determine ; but that it was soon manifest after that pe
riod, is undoubted.
Though the immediate descendant• of Noah were
aware of the being, and some of the attributes, of
Jehovah, yet their knowledge, handed down to posterity
only by tradition, became corrupt, and the invisible and
eternal One was lost sight of in the homage paid to
things of wood and stone ; the charge of which, involv
ing, as it did in their eyes, communion with superio•
Digitized by Coogle
BBATH&N WOitBHIP.
powers, was the most important office in the nation, and
one, too, which it was the earnest endeavor of all to
obtain. · Now, who so likely to obtain it as those who
pretended to be especial favorites of the gods them-
selves, proving their assertions in the most satisfactory
manner by the cure of diseases. Accordingly, we fino
the heathen priests were the first fascinators.
LADY. But how did they discover the mode of doing
it 1
DoCToR. An .attentive examination of the subject has
brought me to a conclusion that, most likely, will very
much surprise you. I think the requisite knowledge was
imparted by Satan himself, either in a direct manner, or
by prompting the mind to a series of experiments that
led to the discovery. He did this to increase his influ-
ence, so that n chosen few, on whom he could depend,
mtght guide the many in the ways of destruction
Proof of this, I think, can be found in the fact, naturally
abhorrent to humanity-for man has been defined to be a
religious animal-that all barbarous nations pay ·more
homage to the Spirit of Evil than they do to the Spirit
of Good. And, as a matter of course, their rites of wor-
ehip are of the most revolting and blood-thirsty descrip
tion ; extreme licentiousness characterizing their devo
tions, as well as suspension by hooks, etc., and the mur
der of infants and adults.
LADY. If fascination is a power i.nparted by Satan
why is it not sinful to have recourse to it 1
DoCToR. He did not impart the power, but merely
showed the fact of its existenl'e. It is a gift from Jeho
vah, and, as such, with all thankfulness, we make use of
it to subserve his honor and glory The Lord maket
lie wrath of man to I raise h:an as wei as the wrath o(
Digitized by Coogle
•
GODS o• Jl'fDJA,
Satan, who will no doubt find it in the end, like manJ
other of his projects. one of the most efficient means of
!lis overthrow.
Uniting, as the heathen magi did, tte offices of priest
and physician, as well as king, (which last office they
afterwarda voluntarily separated, though they kept it
aubordinate to their own,) lllld the number of known
..emedies being then very few, they were mostly com•
pelled to rely on fascination for giving relief in sickness.
Some of them possessed this power in so extraordina-
ry a degree, and had their fame so widely extended,
as to be deified after death; having idol statues shaped
in their likenesses, to which divine honors were paid,
the qualities for which they were thus honored being
symbolized by an additional number of arms. Proofs
of this may be seen at the present day in the images of
the gods of India; Vichenow, Chiven, Parachiven, ~tg.
vcnna, and many others, have four, six, and twelve
arms, all presenting the hands open, with the palms
inclining downwards, the fingers being in the most ap,
proved fascinating positions of the present day.
It is probable that the immediate application of th•
hands was reserved for special purposes, curiously-
shaped rods of various kinds being mostly used to direct
the influences ; thus the caduceus of Mercury, it waa
aupposed, had the power of putting any one whom it
touched to sleep; with it he deepened the slumbers of
Argus, after lulling him to a gentle repose by the sound
of his lyre, preparatory to cutting off his head. That
he sometimes dispensed with its use is evident from a .
fMUsage in Plautus, which makes him say of Sosia •
"What if I stroke him gently with th~ hand so as to put
him to sleep 1" May no ~he regal sceptre have be-o
~·
Digitized by Coogle
aGYPTJAN IIIAGl.
!lied, before the separation of priest and king, for the
aame purposes as the caduceus of Mercury, and be,
!LB well as the royal touch for the cure of scrofula, the
last remains of the former union of offices 1
J.AnY. Nothing can be more probable in this view o1
the subject.
DoCToR. The magi, or wise men of India, the most
ancient fascinators of whom profane history gives any
account, practised mostly gl!stures and manipulations in
curing disease, though they often prescribed herbs.
L11nv. Is any particular ac:count given of their curing
by fa 1cination 1
Do n-oa. Philostratus mentions the case of a yoWl#(
man, whom a lion had injured in the knee to such au
extenl as to keep him in constant agony, and who went
to the magi to obtain relief. They rubbed him gently
with their hands at intervals during a few days, wheu
he returned home perfectly cured.
Next come the priests of Egypt, who took the great
est possible advantage of the secret, and made the
knowledge of it the last and holiest rite of their ancient
magic, in the initiation of candidates. So celebrated
were they, that many persons, taking advantage of our
Saviour's temporary residence in Egypt, professed to
account for his miracles, by accusing him, according to
Arnobius, of being a magician ; of making things by
secret means ; and of stealing, from the sanctuary of the
Egyptian priests, thr names of the powerful angels, and
their occult discipline~t.
Patients flocked to these Egyptians from all parts of
the world. Their mode of proceeding was to pre\·iously
prepare them by means of fasting and prayer, a.\.i thea
wrap the~r. up in goat skiM. After the prott.U ol
Digitized by Coogle
CUllATlV& UVBLATIONS. .
tucina~ion . .bey were left to wait for sleep und pro
phetic visions ; in some instances these did not occur
b~:t to provide for the emergency, tliere was a company ol
priests who slept for them, and revealed the dreams.· A
1ecord of each case, telling the name of the person, the ·
eisease and the remedy, was engraved on the temple;
and these inscriptions, we are told, were, for a long while,
the sole record of practical medicine. Five of these
have been translated, the following two of which will
give an idea of what they were:
The god, in a nocturnal apparition, ordered the son ol
Lucius, who was att)lcked with a hopeless pleurisy, to
take from the altar some cinders, and, mixing them with
wine, make an application to the affected side. He was
1nved; he thanked the god, and the people wished him
happiness.
A blind soldier named Valerius, after consulting tho
god, received for answer : "Go in the temple, mix thu
blood of a white fowl with honey, and wash your eye!~
with it during three days." He recovered his sight,.and
thanked the god before the people.
LAov. What does it mean when it says they waited
for visions t
DocToa. I muat take a rather circuitous mode of
answering your question. We must now study a little
physiology, and, as I will avoid all hard names, and en•
deavor to simplify as much as possible, you will not find
it difficult to follow me in the explanations.
Man has three perfectly distinct elements in his com
position-Matter, the Life Principle, and the Soul 01
Immortal part.
J.Anv. I thought life resulted from the union of aD
the different organs, and that their being placed ;a
Digitized by Coogle ""
LIF.B WITHOUT IQUL.
1ust such relations made the machine work harmom
ously.
DooToa. That has been, and even now is, the opinioQ
of a great many, but when the system is growing, and
ruso in disease, some parts are always out of relation to
the rest, and the proportion and balance thus utterly
destroyed ; and did life only result from the union of all,
it must cease in such cases at once to exist. The in·
ductive and only true method of reasoning refers 'the
various operations going on within the body to a com.
mon cause, which source of action is called the life or
vital principle.
LADY. But how is this cause discovered 1
DoCToR. By the phenomena it presents to us ; we
can perceive these phenomena only through the agency
of Matter, for which purpose alone, it would seem, mat·
ter was created.
LADY. As matte~ is governed by laws of its own, it
llppears to me that, in experimenting upon it, you would
only be finding out those laws.
DoCToR. The laws of matter, which are known as
the chemical and mechanical forces, differ entirely from
those manifested by it when organized.
LADY. Still I have not a clear idea of the vital prin·
ciple. When I would separate it from the soul and mat·
ter, the two last continually force themselves upon my
mind, and make the whole subject very confused. If it
was only possible to observe the vital principle acting
with matter alone, without the soul's interference, I
could easily understand it.
DoCToR. Your wish can at once be gratified, by
looking at the geranium on your windo~ sill. Veget-
•biCJ ~ave only the vital t'"inciple and matter; but
Digitized by 00gle
LII'B IN PLANTS. aa
lJerhaptl 1 cannot do better than refer you to u article
on this subject prepared by myself for a literary maga·
zine some years ago. Will you read it aloud 1
LADY It was remarked by a philosopher, some years
ago, that it was scarcely possible to tell the differ·
ence betw~en a dog and a rose. This statement, to the
greater number of my 1caders who have not reflected
on the subject. will apvear hardly probable. Anecdotes
of the sagacity and faithfulness of dogs are known to
all ; and I doubt not many of them in our city are pos
tessed of more knowledge and practical information,
and are better members of society, than the swarms of
&die and vicious youth who crowd our streets. How
then, with such f.'lcts before him, could Bonnet make
Auch an assertion 1 I will tell you. Our ideas ot the
intelligence of animals arc derived from the proofs of
design we see them exhibit. Having a certain end in
view, they will choose, with the most astonishing dis·
·~rimination, out of a number of means, the ones beat
adapted to their purposes, and contrive to use these in
such a way as to be almost uniformly successful. Nat·
ural history is made up of facts in support of this po-
sition. Our next inquiry will be to find out whethet
plants ever show such instances of choice and foresight
and a little examination will prove that moat unqu~tion·
!lbly they do.
Strawberries, planted on moist ground, give out no
runners ; but, on placing them in a dry soil with water
at some distan~e. we find runners travelling around un-
til they discover it, and then remaining-a living aque-
duct-to supply the plant. If these runners are moved
round to the-.pther side, they will soon regain their
origtnal po11tion with unerring certainty If you tunt
Digitized by Coogle
IHITINC'l' OP PL..llf'l'l.
\be under surface of a rose-leaf upward, it will, in a
little while, commence a return movement, gently twist•
ing, with a kjnq of effort, on its peduncle, as on a sort
of pivot. The .Abbe Martin tranaplanted a rose-tree
from one part of his garden to anvther, for the purpoee
of experimenL To the right of the new position, the
aoil was hard, dry, and sterile; to the left, moist, rich,
and tender. The roots, at first, radiated alike to the
right and left. But he soon discovered that the roots,
which had ativauced to the right, bent backward toward
the fertile and mellow earth, as if diYining that their
t}ompanions at the left had found better pasture. To pre-
vent their intercepting nourishment intended for other
plants, he dug a ditch to stop the farther advancement
of the roots. Arrived at the ditch, they plunged per-
pendicularly below its bottom, ran around and advanced
anew toward the point whence they had discovered
the rich soil.
Instances of their foresight in guarding against es
cessive heat, wind, and rain, are equally numerous
In France, the peasants train the carlina by their doon.
to serve as a barometer ; its open flowers show clear
weather-but closed, an abundance of rain. The shep-
herd's weather-glass has the same property. If it does
not show its face to greet the sun on his ascension, the
sheep remain in the fold on that day. The four-o'clock
opens its flowers regularly every afternoon at that hour,
to show the laborer that, if he cannot afford a watch,
nature will provide him with the means of knowing the
hour without expeua>e. Such examples certainly prove
a faculty of jooging according to the sense in plants.
And now the inquirer asks, " What js the natun
of this ormciole, and in what does it differ from chem
Digitized by 00gle
VaGBTABLJI ......
•
ica1 affinity or attraction 1" A perfect exemplifit.ation
of this difference is given in the history of its creation.
\ .
'And God made every plant of the field before it waa in
the earth, and every herb of the field before it grew.
Dry land and seas, by this time, were divided, and the
forces of the inorganic world in operation. These forces
are called pullers-down of nature. Exposed to theii
influence, mountain and hill crumble to dust ; and it ia
owing to their agency that volcanoes and earthquakes de-
stroy cities and swallow up nations. This is due, proba-
bly, to the shape of the ultimate atoms, which, fitting into
each other in different W4J.ys, occasion perpetual change.
But on the third day, a controlling influence, a new
set of powers, the builders-up of nature, appear--ere
ated, in kind and degree, different from matter, yet
only manifesting their presence to us in connectior
with it. So far from allowing these atoms to unite
according to their affinities, which would sopn destroy
nature, they exercise the most despotic sway, controJ..
ing them to the last. The chemical forces are in per·
feet subjection while life remains ; but the moment it
departs, dust returns to dust, the work of destruction
begins, and the body vanishes into ail
A beautiful example of this opposition is shown by
seeds, which are the simplest independent forms of the
union of the life power with matter. Take two of these,
and, having destroyed the vitality of one of them by pas•
ng an electric spark through it, place both in warm and
moist earth. The dead seed, surrounded by all the con.
ditions favorable to its decomposition, is speedily resolved
into its native elements, while the living one makes slaves
of its enemies, rapidly sprouts up amid the surrounding
desolation and hangs out its flowerv bannerq M to'ken1
Digitized by Coogle
QEII.MliUTlOif.
"f victory. Seeds etain life, almost any length of
time. I noticed, this week, an account of an abundant
harvc:st reaped from the growth of seeds found in au
Hgyptian mummy, over two thousand years old.
A seed, finding itself in a warm moist place, suddenly
becomes aware that it has work to do, and sets about it
without delay. The seed-case bursts, a stalk and leave•
appear above, while the root, sending off filaments.
remains below ; at the end of each of these little fila-
ments is a spongiole, or bundle of leech-like mouths.
These suck from the soil whatever they require, and
then act the part of a stomach in instantly digesting iL
A series of ascending vessels, or veins, are ready to
carry it to the leaves, to be further elaborated; when it
arrives there, its oxygen is given off, and a supply of
carbonic acirl, obtained from the air, is combined with
it; and the pure blood, or sap, is carried by the arteries
to every part, to supply its necessities and form com·
pounus.
l'l:mt::~ are manufacturing establishments ; some make
the essential oils--as the cinnamon, sassafras, and rose;
others salts-as the sorrel, oxalic acid ; the Peruvian
l·.•rk-tree, quinine; and the willow, salacine. 1\'Iany e
d, llised shrub has powers more deadly and dangerou1
that; a powder magazine; the laurel and peach yield
prusl> · acid, one drop of which will destroy life ; and
travell, 1 1! tell us that the atmosphere of the upas-tree is
fatal for miles around it.
The vital principle of each plant, being separate and
mdependent in itself, explains the reason why two of
them-the one a virulent poison, the other a table vege-
table-will grow side by side, and draw their nourith
ment froiT' the aame source. It also shows \he error of
•
Digitized by Coogle
tfi!IIS 0,- PLAN'!'a.
Qur modem agricultu.ists, who treat these hvmg exist.
ences, endowed with a power of choice and foresight.
as if they were tubes, imbibing whatever was placed
near them by capillary attraction.
Man resembles a torch, in requiring oxygen to keep
him burning or alive; in return for this he throws out
carbonic acid, which to him is a virulent poisoD. Now
what prevents this gas accumulating in the air, and des•
troying the animal kingdom ; and from what source
shall the supply of oxygen be derived to answer our
continual demand1 Only from the respiration of plants ;
which we may now see not only supply us with food,
but are absolutely necessw·y for our daily existence.
When the new Custom House and Merchant's Ex
change were erecting, they were the daily resort of
thousands who flocked to witness their gradual progress;
yet how much more wonderful is the building of a
•regetable palace I Unseen workmen are urging it for-
ward with untiring industry ; column after column
forms ; story after story rises ; staircase and hall and
gallery are soon fixed in their positions. We think it a
great thing to have the Croton water brought into our
houses ; yet in every d/11of these little chambers, there
are pipes to carry food and water and take away the
residue. The vegetable house is made of the finest
wood, is elastic, and capable of bending to the breeze ;
and, to defend it from the rain, covered either with wa•
ter-proof varnish, or stuccoed over with the rares por-
celain. And all this time the spectator is not dis! urbed
by noise or dust, the greater part of the work being car·
ried on under ground.
When all is completed, no monarch on earth could ob-
lain su<'h a residence. The very paint ofits walls, though
4
Digitized by Coogle
aosroauot.\Jii~
exposed to all kinds of impurity, is of such rare quality
that the king's stateliest robes cannot match it. "Con•
aider the lilies of the field ; they toil not, neither do they
spin; )·et Solomon, in all his glory, was not arrayed like
unto one of these." Nay, kings are even glad to obtain
'ts essences at second hand, to perfume themselves.
The name of the inhabitant who owns the bouse il
written on a broad door-plate of surpassing beauty, so
that we can tell one from another. Books have been
written on the language of these door-plates or flowers,
and it is said that angels, by their means, write myste-
rious truths on hill and field. The poet, from the ear·
.iest ages, has held the most sweet and loving converse
with them. But to the physician, the priest of nature.
they speak in a higher and more exalted strain. In
them he reads the success of his mission. By their
means he can conquer the most obstinate diseases.
That nothing has ever been formed for show alone, the
truly useful will always be the truly beautiful. That
when their uses are perfectly understood, the fond dreaat
of the Rosicrucian shall not want verification : tht
bone shall continue firm and the muscle strong ; the eye
of youth retain its lustre ; and .century after century
passes away, the lapse of time shall but witness our
triumph over the pullers-down of nature, and our in-
crease in wisdom and love. These happy children of
Flora, that have retained undimmed the influence of
their Creator's smile, when first he pronounced his work
good in Eden, shall receive added radiance and more
dazzling glory as they again behold His face in tiM
dawning morn of the millenium
Digitized by Coogle
•ouaB OP TBB 80U1. ..
UONV E RSA TION Ill.
l'HSYIOLOGY.
Docro1 The body is the bouse of the soul : in 8D
w,>per story, confined to an inner chamber, close..y im.
vrisoned, and having no communication with the exter·
nal world, except through the medium of the life prin·
r.iple, resides our immortal being.
LADY. But there is no mention of a double life in the
account of man's creation. Genesis ii, 7, says that the
Lord God formed man out of the dust of the ground,
and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life ; and
man become a living soul.
DocToa. The Hebrew word, in that passage, for life,
is used in the plural ; so that your objection but con-
firms the physiological view. It should read, breathed
into his nostrils the breath of lives.
LADY. Is the life principle immortal as well as the
soul?
Docroa. I believe it is, but only in consequence of
1ts connection with the soul, to which it is subservienL
It is an intermediate between spirit and matter, present·
ing to us certain phenomena, by which \~e are enabled
t' rec-ognize its possession of seven distinct propertiet;
the~e are:-
VITAL APPfiiiiT\
VIVIFICATION.
MoBILITY.
Jaa•TABILITY.
Digitized by Coogle
10
fliSTIJICT,
SYMPATHY•
. SENSIBILITY.
The first five are common to all animated natwe-
pl:mts as well as animals ; the last two, in consequence
of requiring a nervous system for their development.
be"ong only to animals.
Vital affinity and vivification are used in the organiza
tion of matter. Mobility is the power of originating
motion, as shown in the circulation of the sap and
shrinking of the mimosa. Irritability, or excitability, is
the power of giving and receiving impressions-of act-
ing upon matter, and of being, in turn, acted upon by
it-nnd is one ofthe most important of all. The instinct·
ive property of plants has been already mentioned ; that
of animals needs no illustration. Sympathy and sensi·
bility possess names sufficiently explanatory of their
powers.
LADY. But have not animals a separate principle of
instinct besides a life power 1
DocToR. They have not. Coleridge, who is the best
authority on this subject, remarks that instinct is the
power of selecting and adapting means to proximau
entb; and illustrates the point by taking the stomach of
a caterpillar, which, he observes, has the power of
selecting the appropriate means (that is, the assimilable
part of the vegetable congesta) to the proximate end-
which is, the growth or reproduction of the insect's
body. It docs this by the vital power of the stomach.
From the power of the stomach, he passes to thu
power exerted by the whole animal; traces. it, wander·
ing from spot to spot, and plant to plant, till it finds the
appropriate vegetable ; and again. on this ~~hosen vel&
Digitized by Google
f!IISTINOTIVK NTBLLlOENOL 41
lable he marks it seeking out and fixing on the part of
the vmt, bark, leaf, or petal, suited to its nourishment-
or (should the animal have assumed the butterfly form}
to the proper place of depositing its eggs, and making
provision for the sustenance of the little animals that
shall emerge from them. The power, thus exhibited, of
•electing and adapting means to proximate ends, accord·
ing to circumstances, he conaiders as a higher specie•
of adaptive power, and calls it Instinct.
Then, citing anecdotes from the writings of zoolo-
. gists, he proves in the lower animals a power of select-
ing and adapting the proper means to the proximate
ends, according to varying circumstances ; and this yet
higher species of adaptive power he calls Instinctive
~ntelligence. .
In addition to thes11, he says that he finds one other
character common to the highest and lowest; namely,
that the purposes are all manifestly pred~termined by
the peculiar organization of the animals, and both actions
and purposes are in a necessitated reference to the
preservation and continuance of the particular animal.
ur the progeny. There is selection, but not choice;
volition, rather than will.
LADY. I suppose wild men have their instinctive
faculties best developed, and that man, in proportion as
he becomes civilized, or under the dominion of reason.
loses those powers.
DocToR. You must remember that tke manifestations
of instinct depend on the peculiar organization of the
animal. Man is not fitted to live ·'l a wild state, for
then he is, of all animals, the most helpless. But Cole-
ridge speaks directly on this point, and I will give you
hiJ wurds, premising that he defines understanding at
...
Digitized by Coogle
VNDBBSTANDING.
the acuity that judges by the senses. He aay1, bat il
we suppose the adaptive power, in its highest sta\.8,
(instinctive intelligence) to co-exist with reason, free-will
and self-consciousness, it instantly becomes understand
ing ; in other words, that understanding differs, indeed
from the noblest form of mstinct-not 'n itself. m ia Ill
OtDn esaential propertiu, but in consequence of its eo-
existence with far higher powers, of a diverse kind, in
one and the same subject. Instinct, in a rational, re-
apocsible, and self-conscious animal, is understanding.
Having now reviewed the characters of the servanta
n the house of the soul, we will glance at their offices
in the building, and at the building itself. In comparing
the human frame to a self-moving house, the bones and
muscles should be represented as beams and pillars ; the
stomach as the kitchen; the lungs as the ventilator, etc.
etc. The house must be furnished with bells and wires
to convey news, receive messages, and connect all the
parts together into a common whole ; such offices are
performed by the senses•
. The skeleton of the human body is composed of two
hundred and forty-eight bones; each of which is mod ·
elled with the utmost care for the various offices it baa
to perform ; and so close a relation does one bone bear to
another, that an anatomist can tell from seeing one, or
in some cases, even a part of one, with the utmost cor
tainty, the general form and habits of the animal te
which it belonged. A happy illustration of this fact
was shown some years since in England, by 1\fr. Con•
nybear, a philosopher of considerable eminence. Hav
ing found a few bones of an extinct species of animal
he set himselfto work to construct the perfect skeleton
Little attention was paid to his perf<,nnan~e at tiJ~ time
Digitized by Coogle
BONES. 43
out some years afterward, a complete skeleton of that
singular animal. the Plesiosaurius, was 'discovered, and
found almost exaetly to correspond with Mr. Conny•
Dear's drawing I
La •· apma column
topped by the ikull ; r
r, ribs connected by gria·
de (cartilage,) to the
breast bone, ~; 1 y, col-
lar bones (clavicles); b,
the anu bone (hamer·
ua) ; c, the elbow ; d,
tho radius; e, the ulna;
J, tho wriat joiat (com-
poaed of 8 small bones,
in two rows); g, the
• finger bones (phalanges,
19 bones); • '• hips or
pelvic bones, joiaing "'•
tbe aacrum ; i, the thigh
bone Wlited to the trunks
of the body by the joint
6: I, the kaee-pau (pa·
tella); It, the kl!ee; -.
the tibia, and •· the fib-
ala, both email bones of
the leg ; o, aucle, com·
JX*'d of 1 honea ; p,
toe bones(phalengoe, 19
bonea)]
BONY IKELETON.
The back bone and skull arc by far the most impon:--
ant amo.>ng the Lones; they a¥e the casket11 in which:
•re deposited the spinal marrow nnd br&in-indeed. t•·
DigitizedbyGoogle m
IIAClt BONL
protect the ncrvoue systerr· from injury seems, in evetJ
instance, the first intention of the formation of a skele-
ton.
1'h£. spine, or buek bone, is composed of twenty-four
amaller bones, between the most o( which is a layer of
gristle, so that while the indispensable conditicn of great
strength is preserved, a degree of motion is allowed.
The weight of the upper parts d the body, presses
down this gristle during the day, thus accounting for
the singular fact that persons are always shorter at
night than in the morning soon after getting up. The
loss in height in different individuals varies from half an
inch to one or two inches.
LADY. I know a gentleman who habitually loses m
height from one-half to. three-quarters of an inch every
day; and, while speaking on the subject, told me an •
anecdote relative to the practice pursued by British re·
cruiting sergeants, who, when they found a man willing
to enlist, not more than half an inch under the requisite
height, made him lie in bed and fed him well for two or
three days, by which time his gristle became well swelled
out, and he was almost invariably sure to pass muster
when immediately presented at the station house.
DoCToR. Every little protuberance and ridge we see on
bones give origin or hold to muscles, which attach them•
selves to them by means of strings or tendons. There are
nearly five hundred distinct muscles named by anato-
mists in the human body. This is probably underrating
the real number, for a caterpillar has over four thousand
muscles, and there arc one thousand in the proboscis of
en elephant. Muscles are composed of layers of ccllu·
lar tissue, the compressioti nt' wlti.-11 n.t the ends forms ton·
~QD5; while the cells iu tl:•· n•iddle arc filled with fibrin
Digitized by Coogle
JiUBCLU.
MtitiCULAR 81tAUTOJr.
(/I.the ltemo maatoid; ita Cl'ntraction makes the need approacb ..
Illest1 i i i, abdomilllll mtla(llce, to retain the parte in their places, auill
rMpiration, etc.; A, muscles on the chest, to move the arm toward it; I
IIXtenda the arm on a level with the shoulder; k is the muscle to raise the
I:Jro.ann; a moves the fingers; b, the fo~leg; and t: is the tailor'• m•
.:le, by which he il enabled to CI'OIIII hillega.)
The mode in which the nerves act on the mobility
of muscles, so as to cause them to thicken or contract,
ia well shown in this cut. One part of the muscle is at·
&ached tCI the fore-arm, and the othet to the head of the
Digitized by Google•E••
utoilsrl()tf.
arm; as it gradually contracts and ahortena on rleeJf, the
tmnd approaches the head
.t.lUl.
tThe figure represents the honea of the arm and hand, ha\;ng al the
11oft parta di~~~eeted oft", excE>pt one muacle, 0 B 1 of which the function
ia to bend the arm ; 0, the origin of the mnacle ; B, the belly ; I, the
insertion; T T, the tendons; S, the shoulder-joint; E, the elbow. Wheo
the belly contracts, the lower extremity of the muscle I ia brought nearer
to the origin or fixed point, 0, and by thus bending the arm at the elbow
Joint, rai8811 up the weight, W, placed in the hand.]
When the human germ or embryo is first excited to
action, it is not as large as a pin's head, yet, even small
as it is, the life power is in vigorous exercise ; it stationa
deputations of its properties in the proper places to form
their own instruments of action out of the minute pulp.
In a short time the heart and blood-vessels are formed
to carry nutriment to every part, and the bones, mul-
cles, and other organs appear in succession. Its fint
eare is to perfect all the arrangements that are necessary
for purposes of nutrition, which arrangements you will
understand better in the adult than in the infant, in :whom
the parts are out of proportion.
When food is taken in the mouth, the saliva is poured
out from manufactories of that substance ; it mixes with
the food, not only softening it, but also affecting on it au
actual change, which is the first real act of digestion.
When this f.uid i• deficient, its want ia imperfectly aupo
Digitized by Coogle
•
t'I'OHACB.
,.,
plied in the other processes of assimilation. This cause
alone would account for the dyspepsia, so prevalent
amoug tobacco chewers and smokers, who wantonly
exhaust a supply intended for other purposes than the
filthy use to which they apply iL ·
The second act is performed by the stomach,into which
the food descends from the mouth by means ofa long tube
•••ophap) composed of a series of muscular rioga
TBJI IITO~OJI.
[Tbe atomach ia capable ofcontaining, generally,!-om OM to two qaar,.
!If liquid;·cue• occur, however-by want on the oae aide, and glnttouy
Gil the other-in which thi• proportion is either much diminished or
lncreued. It baa two openiuga-the cardiac, C, (!'rom cardittfll, the heart,
n being noar that organ) and the pyloric, P, !'rom the Greek for gate-
11eeper, becauae it will not let anything bot chyme paa1 it. B S, and B,
are arteriea mrronnding it, tn give it a good 111pply of blood for ~
the gutrie joice.)
which, by contracting constantly above, push it before
them. Whf"n there, the gastric fluid is poured out on it,
completely dissolving the whole, and changing it into
a greyish-looking fluid called chyme. The stomach then
contracts, llosing un the opening by which it entered C
Digitized by Coogle
,.
INTB8TINB8,
lUI intestinal tube, from the mouth to ita finRl tenninabon, u Oftl
dlirty feet long. After leaving the stomach, it ie divided into large mel
1111811 in•.,.tines. R S S S S T, are the latter, which end at T into the
J&rge, which are marked U U U W ; and the termination X y ia callecl
the rectum, cl811ping which last are the strong muscle, Z Z, joining iD •
aontinut:'lS circular band below. M 1.\1 M, show• the stomach; A A A.
.. lhw,aod ita depoeitory of bile, B, the gall-bladclalq
Digitized by Coogle
V1SC2&A,
nn1 LITIIll, a~BL.&ODE&, PANORE.olo.S, A~ll KIDNEYS.
l f, is the livl'r, turned up to show iL• nuder surfncl'; G, the gall-bllld·
fer; P, the pRncre88; K. the ki.Jnevs, which 8l'crete urine from the blood
which they empty into the hlndt!er, II, by mean• of the tuheo called
ureters U; S is the spleen. an nr!:un at the present day consitleretl merely
a reservoir of blood for the •tomac·h. The rectum. R. runs behind the
~!ladder towanl its IP.rminating l'··iut: V j,, '"" great vt•in curTyinl_.: up th•
r..tlue bloocl to ho purili,•tl; A " •I••· arto·•·y returning the I!UIIIe bhod
purified, to meet the wuuts of''"' ')-l•·u>.j
r.
Digitized by Coogle
,
MESENTERIC QLAHDS.
md thus forcing it out through the other orifice P. Sooo
after entering the intestines, a fluid is poured out through
a tube. This fluid is composed of the secretion of the
iiver (bile), and another secretion from the pancreaa
(sweet breads) ; each sending a tube trom itself, the
tubes uniting into a common duct before opening into tha
inte»tines. The liver has a repository for bile, called
the gall-bladder, so that it is capable of performing ita
part in digestion at any moment. It is supposed by
many that the juice from the pancreas merely dilute•
the bile. but this is not very probable. This juice, when
XEBENTER!C GLANDS.
[I I I I, portion• of intestine; L,lacteals, which empty into the-
tary gl11nda M G; T D, thoracic duct, which conveys the elaborated ftuiil
(which ie, at thi• point, of a pale pinkish color) into the reservoir Ia dae
-k The 1pine, 8, ia shown in the back-ground. The mesentery
glanda exercise a very important part in digeoti)n; they are eometime~
dilea8ed in children, a fact which may be known by feeling on their bel-
liela 011mber of little hard knoto; in •nl'lt ca8t'e, the child, if not r.ured-
DO mattor what the nonri•hmcnt ;,._repiclly Wb8tea away and dills. Dr
Edlon, tbe living akeletou lat~>ly exhihitl"d at the American mueeum, died
In c:l-cruencP. of d;,...&•'-' cJo,ing the thoracic duct, and thna preventiot
"'1 8C)()ell o( nourishment to his •y•tem.}
Digitized by Coogle
BII.•UT. 61
poured on tl a chyme, separates it it o two parts .he
chyle and ex.!rement. The chyle, a this stage, so much
resembles milk, as to take its name from a Greek word
meaning that article : it is instantly sucked up by mil·
lions of little leech-like vessels, called milk carriers,
(la~teals from /actus, milk,) which convey it to themes·
enteric glands to be further elaborated ; leaving them,
it is carried to 11 duct and finally mixed with a reservoir
of venous blood in the neck, from whence it enters the
upper cavity of the right heart, is thrown into the lower
cavity, u.d then taken to the lungs to receive the lut
•tage of purification.
(Man p - twr: hearts, which are only placed together lOr tbe .U.
al convenieooe. Each heart has two cavitiett, an upper and a lower ooer
tho upper cavity ia called an auricle, from ita reeembling, in ebape, c
11Dimal'1 ear; the lower cavity is called a ventricle, from ita ehape, .._.
bli~J~a belly. The sodden eX{IBD&ion of the receiving chamber. or auaW't
Digitized by Coogle ..
'ft HEELS OF LJF&
' tbe right heart, 11, produces a vacuum, which is directly filled by tlM
nixture of elaborated food and veinons blood from varioll8 sourcee, o, p q,
ll instantly contract.! and empties this blood into the distr:':)uting chamber,
or ventricle below; the \'entricle b contracts upon itself, and ecnda the
blood into the pulmonary artery, k, to be carried to the Junge, ll; after
receiving a supply of oxygen, and throwing oft' its carbonic acid, it
returuo [( the left heart by four pulmonary ,·eins, two of which are ahowu
at m m; the left auricle, r, expands, produces a vacuum, becomes filled,
oontracl•, and sends tho blood into tb., left \"entricle, a, which also COD·
tracts in turn, aud throws the fluid into the aorta, c e, from whence it i.l
carried through all parts of the system. If the time that elapses betweeu
the contractions of the heart bo divided into four parts, three of th-
parts will represent the period of the heart's activity, and one that of ita
repose; it thus re>ts one·quarter of the time, or six hours in every twenty·
.four; it doe• this (in common with every part of the body that baa
been exhausting its strent:th in working) to recruit. The artery that
supplies tho heart with bloud is called the coronal, •· Each cavity of the
heart holds two ounces; it commonly contracts se\"euty times a minute,
80 that over TWO twosHt:ADs of blood are pumped through our beerl!
ev<'ry hour! That the irritation of the blood does not cau.'l6 the heart tc
contmct, and that it p.ossesses an inherent power of action in itself, are
ehown by the fact that, when taken out of the body (of course, a very
short time after appar<:nt death) and pricked, its first mntion is to expand
1'013 henri of n sturgeon was bung up to dry, and continued in motion 81
lno,g that ita rwtling could Le heard in auy part of the house.]
Arrived at the lungs; it throws out carbonic acid and
wke!' in a supply of oxygen; it is then thrown into the
upper ca\'ity of the left heart, which contracts, sends
it into the lower cavity, from whence the aorta receives
it, and it then makes its rounds in the system to supply
the wants of every part. Chemists tell us that an atom
of pure blood is composed of eighteen different elements;
and also that the atoms resemble a spangle in shape,
being thin and circular with a dot of iron in the middle.
c>ccusioning Dr. Good's remark that the wheels of liff'
ran on 'ron axles.
The uteries subdivide to an excessively minute de-
gree, and the extreme hranches terminate in little blad
,.,.ra Each vf these lit~ll bladders nr globular cells haa
Digitized by GoogIe
LUROA.
TBa l.tiN08.
I The windpipe. a, gives paaaage to the air; it ramifies into exceeding.,.
minute branches, e e e, which t.lrminate in little cella, the muee• of
which, in three distinct lubes, are shown at c c c: this is only on the
right aide of the body; on the left side there are but two lobes, the apac~
required fur the third being filled by the heart. By means of the muscle•
rurrounding the cheat, the lungs a:-o alternately <'IXpanded and contracted.
It~ been found that we req•1ire one hundred and forty gallons per hour
of pure air for respiration. It ia an error that the carbonic acid given out
&om the lunge poisons the atmosphere in crowded usemblies. Such
oir baa been analyzed, and fiouud to oontain as mncb oxygeu as that in a
~Jreet; the ill effects are prxluced from pent-up human exhalation•.]
three· openings, one for the artery, one for a vein, and
one for an absorbent. When an atom of blood arrive•
ill one of them, the absorbent takes from it what is re-
quired, <tnd works it up to suit its own purposes; what it
•ft is imtllediatt>ly sucked up by the vein and earned l)ff
:;•
Digitized by Google
to be again mixed with the elaborated fooJ, and puaed
through the lungs. ·
You will remember my mentioning, when speaking o
&he development of the embryo, the fact of deputation•
of the life power being stationeL in different places to
form their own instruments of action ; these instrumcntl
.,_ called gland!! and their offit>e is to lier.rete from the
Digitized by Coogle
GLANDS. 66
olood the different ftu1ds required in the system; .be'
are merely a greater or less number of bundles of attle
bladders, acting in the mode I have just mentioned, and
endowed with specific properties to make certain sub-
stances. Thus the liver secretes bile; the la?hrymaJ
gland, tears; and the salivary gland, spittle; and tht
inside coat of the stomach, the gastric juice. Here is a
cmt showing the mode in which the blood-vessel11 ramify
1 wish you to carefully examine these cuts and the a.c
companying descriptions, as too much minutenes• iJt
desc~ribing the anatomy of the organs, while explaining
the functions, would have made the subject very difficult
of ':omprehension.
I~ADY. I think I understand the nutritive function~
now, and I am glad to think that nothing but the nervous
eystem remains between us and the sleepers in the
Egyptian temples, to whom I am impatient to return;
but I should likt> to know, if anything injurious should
fDter in the channels of the circulation, how the bloot.'
would get ri<l of it,
Digitized by Googl
NI!:BVU.
DoL'Toa. Bt means Jf the dkin, kidneys, and lungt
which are all excreting glar.ds, or organs, that throw
off cffending matters. Bu~, to purs•te our subject, we
...YOUI IDHK.
must examine the nervous system. This cut of it will
give you an idea ofthe ramifications of the nerves over
die aurface of the system. The nerves, like every other
Digitized by Coogle
CE&EB&O· SPINAL AXIS.
part of our system when fot:ming, begin a•. .nc C:.tc..o,.
lerenee, ani grow toward the centre &.~ ~twwr. he"'e ·-
Cll!Uoii&O·IPIN.&L .&XII
l View of the bue of the brain, front portion of the 1pinal marrow, ani
••enl atta.:bed nerves: a, cerebrum (large bntin); l>, cerebellum (little
OJ'II!.o. which illower and poeterior than the other); c, spinal marrow; l
medulla oblongata, the so-called bulging ~pinal marrow which swells out
u it enters the brain, I, the nerves of smell ; 2, nerves of eight; 3, (. 5,
8, oervee going to different porta of the bead, of no particular interest ia
thil place; 7 ie related to the nenee of Maring; 8, 9, nerve~ coing t.o lht
lllllpe aad pllet. etiD.J '
Digitized by Coogle
68 MOTiON A.Nb Ai:NsATtoH.
Those of the lower extremitiP.s, k k, unite in distindl
bwtdles before entenng the spir.e ; proceeding upward,
we find nerve after nerve running into the back-bone,
through holes bored for their reception, as n, c, l, g, t,
show the nerves as they come from the superior extrem·
ities, or arms ; m, those of the neck, etc. The spinal
canal is already filled when the nerves enter it by two
kinds of nervous matter, the white and the grey; the
latter is supposed to be the origin of sensation and mo-
tion, as we invariably find, by tracing the nerves to
their terminations, that they end in it; and we know the
.terves are nothing more than communicating media.
LADY. By your course of reason, I would conclude
that cutting the nerve of a part, before it entered
the grey matter, would destroy all sensibility in that
part.
DoCToa. And motion as well. All distinct masses
of the grey matter in the body are termed ganglia~
the spinal cord, from its lowest part till some distance
upward in the neck, is composed of two ganglia, sensa~
tion and motion. With regard to cutting the nerves.
that haR been done so often, and so invariably with the
same result, that it has become an established point in
science, of no sensation of any kind existing, except as
connected with a superior essence. Sensation in the
lower animal seems even on a par with their intelli·
gence. The gadfly, Dr. Good remarks, when it fat~tena
on the hand, can be cut to pieces without its experienciog
any appa1cnt pain; and the idea of Shakespeare hu
been long ago exploded-that
- " the puor worm thou n-l'.c cna,
Ill corporeal miTering. feels a pt~ng u croa&
As wben a giant die~~.
Digitized by Coogle
1:!1-'iS.\L CORIJ. 59
The nerve of ~nsation, and that of motion, are bound
in the same &h4ath, till within a short distance of the
apinal cord ; •hey then separate, and each enters ita
awn gaug)ira(l. This cut shows a front section of the
•fiir..,' "'4r4 md ner\"'es :-
IPOI'.&.L OOBD 4lm na..a.
A represents the spinal cord ; B, the united nerve• i
C, the branch for motion, travelling alone; D, that of
sensation, which always thickens into a. knot in itl
progress before entering its ganglion.
At the upper part of the spinal marrow, we find a
selies of ganglia in pairs, one set behind the other, in
regular order, and always found in the same relations to
their parts ; these are the ganglia of the special sensu.
So much has observation been directed to these points,
and so true and unvarying is nature, that, by examining
the size of the ganglia of the animal, we can tell the
degree of perfection the several senses have attained.
ln the eagle, we find the opt1c ganglion large ; in the
hound, the olfactory; in the rabbit, the auditory; and il
all inttances, the samt1 re<>n t 1oldR.
Digitized by Goog e
.....
BillE VIEW OF THE BllAJ!f.
The nerves supplying the teeth come from the \harq
oranch of the five pair marked in the side view 5 '..
lTbe numeral. correspond to thore iu the cut of 'be cerebro-apioa.
.U.. The tree-like and braneby appeanmoe of the cerebeUum, or ~
bniu, ia well shown.]
Many of the lower animals have only two ganglia.
sensation and motion ; as we ascend the scale, and find
animals possessed of special senses, so do we find the
corresponding ganglia present; still ascending, we find
a new pair of ganglia, which I will denominate those of
IJfSTIMCTIVJil • INTELLIGENCE; for, in proportion as the
animal exhibits marks of intelligence, do these ganglia
increase in size, and the enlargement gives shape to the .
skull. So small is this in some animals, that they have
a perfectly flat skull on a line with the spine. As we
ltm ascend the scale, it continually enlargea, and tht
---· Digitized by Google
TRA ~S.IIIGRATION.
••
U.ull protrudes above the spinal colun.n, as may be &eel
in the dog and horse.
In man, the ganglia of instinctive intelligence-or
nccording to Coleridge, of understanding-is out of aU
proportion, as regards size, to the others ; it coven
them all, its bulging in front forming the forehead.
• LADY. One might find some excuse, in what you are
saying, for the eastern ideas of transmigration; a con-
stant and perfect ascent from the very lowest germ of
life to man would give rise to some ideas of its being
one identical spirit-an immortal being undergoing its
education for eternity, and, in the highest and last stage
of material maturity, preparing for its future spiritual
existence.
DoCToa. You will be much surprised to find that the
brain of the child before birth is not the miniature brain
of the man ; but, on the contrary, rises, as you have just
guessed, from the lowest to the highest, passing through
the grades of animated existence till it arrives at ita
present state in man, and even then continues growing
if cultivated, as many well-attested cases have fully
·demonstrated. The head of Napoleon, after he became
emperor, was much larger than it was some years pre-
vious; a fact shown by two busts of him, now at Paris,
taken at different periods.
A Scotch gentleman once informed me that the eldest
son among the aristocracy of Great Britain is titled
from birth, and, at the death of his father, receives the
honors of the deceased without any delay; but tha•
with the heir to the throne it was entirely different-he
must be made a knight, a baron, an earl, etc. ; gratiual
and successive steps giving him rank-the Jaws, unless
these preliminaries are observed, ieclnring him without
6
Digitized by Coogle
TRANSMlGRAT. ll't
any. I ha,·e never made inqUtry to know whether tlu•
matter was so or not, but, at any rate, it illustrates
the stages of the lords of creation, as they style t.oem·
selves.
LADY. You have destroyed transmigration, as there
eould be oo occasion of tetracing the stepa if on :e MODI
...,.
Digitized by Coogle
CONV E RSA TJ ON IV.
IIO'l'JBLB LIFE OP JLUf,
~... You will remember tbe care of the life
power, when 6rtt excited, to complete all the arrange-
ments required in nutrition. These arrangements are
called by anatomists the organs of vegetable or organic
life: such are the stomach, liver, heart, arteries, veins,
kidneys, etc. Another set is required for the soul : the
organs composing it are called the organs of animal
life: auch are the brain and voluntary muscles.
LAolt'. To recall your former comparison, every thing
that relates to keeping the house in good order, and feed-
ing ita iamates, would belong to the vegetable organs,
while the animal are devoted to obeying the commands
of the soul.
Docroll. You comprehend my meaning. The appa-
ratus in aDimals that pertains to nutrition, though indi·
rectly inftuenced by the brain, is a system within itself,
,having ita own set of nerves and ganglia. Its ganglia
differ from thoae of animal llfe, in being of a reddish
grey color, and lying among the soft parts; they are
distributed from tbe orbit of the eye to the lower part
of the back bone, and have a grand centre or brain,
called the aemi-lunar ganglion, which lies behind the
etomach.
So sparsely are the nerves of sensation given to the
organs of vegetable life, that, in surgical operations
U~tr~ is little or no pai~ felt after the skin is cut. ~~~
Digitized by Coogle
84 SEPAI.ATJON OF LIVES.
vey, tne ~emonstrator of the circulation of the blood
was acquainted with a young nobleman who, from dis•
ease, had the heart so exposed that it could even be
bandied while beating: he tound, to his astonishment,
that unless his fingers came in contact with the outer
1kin, the young man was altogether unconscious of the
heart being touched.
The cut on page 65 ·shows the ganglionic system of
organic life. A A A A is the semi-lunar ganglion, or
brain of the system ; the letters and numerals name the
different ganglia from the organs they superintend.
need not mention all these, my object being only to give
a general idea of the two lives, vegetable (organic)
and animal, that belong to our system.
LADY. Has a distinct separation ever taken place be-
tween the two sets of organs, so that one acted while
the other was quiescent 1
DocToa. Yes; and quite enough to prove that the
body and the mind can exist independently of each
other. In concussion of the brain, sensation, tht~ught,
and locomotion, the functions of animal life, are entirely
passive, while the organic continue with the usual ac-
tivity and regularity. Sleep, which l will refer to again
in a short time, affords a less striking instance.
Dr. Good remarks that in cases of suspended anima·
tion, by hanging, drowning, or catalepsy the vital prin·
~iple continues attached to the body after all the vital
functions cease to act, often for half an hour, and SOillf'l-
times for hours. In the year 1769, Mr. John Hunter
being then forty-one years of age, of a sound constitu·
tion, and subject to no disease except a casual fit of the
gout, was suddenly attacked with a pain in the stomach,
•hir.h was shortly succeeded bv a total suspension of
Digitized by Coogle
8ANOLIONIC SYST&M.
Digitized by Google
VOLUNTARY T&ANOL
. the action of the heart and lungs. By the fOWet of the
will, or rather by violent striving, he occasionally in
Bated the lungs, but over the heart he had no contro
whatever; nor, though he was attended by four of the
• chief physicians of London from the first, could the aa-
tion of either be restored by medicine. In about three-
quarters of an hour, however, the vital actions began to
return of their own accord, and in two hours he was
perfectly recovered. Sir Everard Home observed that
in the attack there· was a suspen$ion of the most mate-
rial involuntary actions; even invo.mtary breathing
was stopped, while sensation, with its consequences, as
thinking and acting, with the will, were perfect, and all
the voluntary actions were as strong as ever.
Dendy mentions cases in which this power of discon·
nection was voluntary. Colonel Townsend's case W8.11
one of undoubted authority. That officer was able to
suspend the action of both his heart and lungs, aft~r
which he became motionless, icy cold, and rigid, a glassy
film overspreading his eyes. As there was nc b..eathing,
the glass held over his mouth showed no apparent mois·
ture. Though all consciousness would pass away, yet
the colonel could re-animate himself when he chose.
Dr. Cleghorn relates the case of a man who could stop
the pulse at his wrist, and reduce himself to the condi·
tion of fainting by his will.
Though it is only in rare cases that the will bas any
power over the nutritive organism, yet the emottont
always exercise a very consiJerable influence. Every
one has experienced the manner in which ill news spoils
the appetite. Some cases of the effects of imagination,
in producing fear, and thus exciting disease, we have
already reviewed, but a few more will not be out of
Digitized by Coogle
FATAL BPP.80'N OP ..JO~.
place here. Platerue tells Ul of 1<. me girls p.aying neat
a gibbet, when one of them threw stones at a eriu.ina.
auspended on it. .Being violently struck, the body
awung, and the girl, believing it was alive, and was de-
acending from the gibuet, fell into violent convulsion~
and died.
Weaeloff was detained as a hostag~ by the Kalmuce,
and was carried along with them in the memorable
ftight to China. His widowed.mother had mourned him
as dead, and on his sudden return, the excess ofJOY was
fatal instantaneously. In the year 1544, the Jewish
.pirate, Sinamus Taffurus, was lying in a port of the Red
Sea called Orsenoe, and was preparing. for war, being
then at variance with the Portuguese. While he wu
there, he received the unexpected intelligence that hia
son (who, in the seige of Tunis, had been made prisone1
by Barbarossa, and by him doomed to slavery,) waa
suddenly ransomed and coming to his aid with seven
ahips well armed. He was immediately struck as if
with apoplexy, and expired on the spot. The same.
effect was produced upon the door-keeper of Congresa
during the revolution, who, on hearing the news of a vic·
tory won by his countrymen, fell back and expired in
ecstacy.
LADY. I suppose it is in the ganglion of the under·
atanding that phrenologists map the seats of the vari001
properties of the mind.
DoCToa. It is : they say that if there are separate
ganglia for the !!pecial senses, which are, after all, but
mere modifications of general sensibility, why should
not the same plan hold good in locating the different
properties of the mind, which may be called the special
lellles of the understanding; and the anatomiCP-1 anaJo-
Digitized by Coogle
68
gtes fa~ or this view. It had been said, bt ore phrenoJ.
ogy was known, that the faculty by which the astrono-
mer calculated eclipses WM as distinct in his mind, and
ereserved its individuality as much, as the eye in hi1
body.
LADY. It would also account for the influence of
habit, our constant pursuit of one object fostering the
germ of an organ to maturity. What is the bram .
made of?
DocToR. Its chemical constitution is principally a).
bumen. It is formed of an immense number of arteries,
vei11s, and nerves. Dr. Gall was the first to completely
tmravel its complex web, which he was enable!!! to do
11ftcr hardening its substance by long-continued boiling
in oil.
LADY. The ancients must have been aware, as WP.ll
as ourselves, that the height and prominence of the
forehead were the distinguishing traits of a high degree
of intelligence, when they made the foreheads of the
gods bulg13 out beyond au angle of ninety degrees.
DocToR. They were as close observers as ourselves,
and I am inclined to think knew almost as much.
Nearly in the centre of the brain is a substance, eom·
rnonly about the size of a pea, called the pineal body
which Galen considered to be the seat of the soul : an
idea that has been much ridiculed. But an attentive
study of the brain has convinced me of the truth of
Galen's supposition ; for it has communic:,tion, by means
of nerves, with the most important ganglia. And I
think it reasonable to suppose the soul occupying a
superior and independent position, overlooking and gov•
erning the inferior powers ; and precisely such a poai·
tion would be obtained )y a rcsiJencc in the pinea
Digitized by Coogle
..
1.4'1' OP TBB .ao&..
body; this opinion is confirmed by the fact, that in idiota
ita means of communication are mostly cut oft' and
iDjured.
LADY. Can disease of the body injure the soul?
DoCToa. Ot.~y by acting bn its means of communica
tion with the external world. We have considered the
soul to resemble a man shut up in a dark and central
chamber of his house; he hns servants stationed at the
windows who tell him what they see; an apparatus,
also superintended by servants, is fixed on each side of
hia house, to collect sounds, which are then reported;
and the other senses communicate in the same manner.
Cut off from all personal observation, he can only judge
of the outward world from his messengers; when these
are true to their office, and the full growth of the brain
is attained, man is in complete possession of all his fac-
ulties ; if he does not become emiDent then, he neve1
will. For many years his messengers have been im·
parting news, and the time has come when they should
work up and mentally digest all this material. Know}.
l!dge digested becomes wisdom. For this purpose, the
nvenues gradually close ; the servants become old and
inactive; and at last-" sans hearing, sight, and taste"-
his communications with the external world are at
an end ; he then moves around-a walking vegetable-.
Where nature's laws are allowed free operation, we
never find abrupt transitions ; all rises by a gradually
ascending scale ; and as man bids adieu to this world,
aMther begins opening to his view, and the soul be.
eomes gradually accustomed to its future mode of
existence.
LADY. WinJe on this subject, I would like to know U
We have WO brains 1
Digitized by Coogle a
TBBC&'r OF lNSAtfri'~
))oC"&·oa. Yea. Dr. Wigans has lately wr·tten aVer)
interesting book on the subjeet: he argues that u we
nave duplicates or all the organs of animal life--iiucll
as the eyes, ears, etc.--aDd as each of theose produces a
distinct and separate impression on the orain, and were
so made tbe better to render us able to judge of, and
correct, erroneous impressions, by comparing the eft'ect
ofeacb, so the duality of the brain was intended for the
same purpose.
LADY. I cu easily coDCeive why the senses shoul<.
be doable, as I have seen persons who were deaf in one
ear, and from that cauae could not tell the direction
from whence the sounds they heard proceeded. The
experimeat, citeci by Abercrombie, of placing a cent on
the edge of a table, and standing at the extreme distance
"rom the table to be enabled to knor.k it off with ease.
with both eyes opeD, by means of the finger when the
arm is stretched out-and the certain failure attending
:he eftOrt when one eye is closed-would prove the ne-
~ssity of two optical organs.
DoCToa. Dr. Wigans argues, in relation to the brain,
in a similar manner, and thus accounts very ingeniously
for all stages of insanity. He says, that as there are
two brains, and each receives from its nerves a distinct
impression, both, provided tMy are lr.e4lthy, will convey
a correct and single report to the soul ; but if diseased,
a very different and conflicting account reaches it, and
acting first on one, and then on the other, produce•
msanity, more :>r less complete in accordance with
the amoUDt of disease. He makes a madman, in this
sense, most truly, a "man beside himselr'-who holdl
eeries of conversations with himself, which, if the sep-
arate trains we:e followed out, we should find consisten1
Digitized by Coogle
ILBB~. ,.
a themseh·es. Let us ailow the seat of the soul to be
the pineal body, and the theory of Dr. Wigans will be
verified.
LADY. Insanity, then, might be considered, in this
light, as a squiAting of the brains!
DoCToa. I am glad to perceive you understand the
llustrations. We are now very near to our sick devo-
ees in the Egyptian temples. But I must first make a
few remarks on the functions of the brain. The office
of this organ is to secrete the nervous fluid, by means of
'!hich the mind holds communication with, and directs,
all the parts to which it is connected by nerves. Though
the organs of vegetable life have a ganglionic and ner-
vous system of their own, still many fibres from the
orain and spinal marrow are sent to them, and, as in
he case of the emotions, a powerful though indirect
nfluence is exerted upon them. So long as we have
1\ supply of the nervous fluid, sensation, thought, and
locomotion (the functions of animal life), are in vigorous
exercise ; but the moment the supply becomes deficient
or ceases, a partial or total failure of these powers,
depending on the quantity, is the direct result, and
slumber succeeds, to allow more of the necessary arti-
cle to be secreted. Whatever acts on the irritability
of the brain, so as to change or alter the nervous se-
cretion, acts in a corresponding manner on all the
parts to which the changed fluid is carried by the
nerves.
The optic and auditory nerves are the principal ser-
vants that wait on the mind in conveying news. The
eye and ear resemble each other in being instruments
for the purpose of condensing "ibrations, to make them
ufticiently intense to produce imprersions on their .epo
Digitized by Coogle .....
72 SUCIAL SENSES DISPENSED Wlr&.
arate nerves, so that messages can be carrioo to the
inner chamher.
LADY. Is light produced by vibration,, as well u
IOWld 1 I have always considered it to be composed
af particles of matter.
DoCToa. It is now proved to be merely the vibra-
tions of an ether existing throughout all space, and
C'apable of being excited by luminous bodies.
LADY. If the optic nerve were uncovered, then we
might do without the eye, as the vibrations of light
would alone suffice to produce distinct images.
DoCToR. We need not have recourse to so violent a·
mode of reaching the special senses, which even then
would require something more to insure success. The
material in ordinary life has the preponderance ; but Wf
are so formed that the spiritual in certain cases may ob-
tnin the balance of power; in proportion as the latter
gains the ascendency do the servants become mort•
active and easily impressible, till at length a point i•
reached where the apparatus for condensation can be en·
ttrely dispensed with. In this state, the vibrations of
light that strike on the bony covering of the head wil!
find the nervous matter behind it sensitive enough to
convey impressions to the sensorium. This state is com·
mon:y termed that of clairvoyance.
LADY. Can we, in any case, ever hear sounds without
the ear 1
Dot!Toa. Easily ; and it does not require any prepa-
raticn to proquce that effect. Hold your watch in such
a manner inside the mouth that nothing is touchf'd, and
no sound will be heard ; but by closing the teeth on it a
loud ticking can be instantly perceived. The soun~
\ravels thtou~h the bony structure to the au 1itory nervet
Digitized by Coogle
IUlllVOVI FLVIDo
LADY. You certainly present proof sufficient; it ia u
fOU say. This reminds me of a story I 1ead some yeara
.lgO about a merchant in Holland, who had not heard a
10und for years, till ont'e, while smoking, the end of his
pipe accidentally touched a harpsichord, on which hia
daughter was playing; to his astonishment, he was con-
scious of the music even to the lowest tones, and he
afterwards found that he could converse with any of hi1
family through the medium of a stick supported by the
teeth of each.
DoCToa. As nature does nothing abruptly, the ascen-
sion of the spiritual over the material is gradual. The
influence that produces it in fascination is the Nnvova
FLUID or vapor thrown oft' from the person operating.
This vapor acts upon the irritability of the patient ; by
sympathy it is transmitted to the brain; the secretion of
that organ is changed ; and the altered nervous fluid it is
making when sent to the various parts over which it hu
influence by the nerves, produces a series of resultl
called fascinating phenomena.
LADY. Does not the loss of this fluid injure the fasci-
nator 1
DocToR.. In some cases it does, but tht're are many
so gifted as to impart it without danger. A sensation
of weakness ensues, which soon vanishes by a new sup-
ply of fluid from the continued secretion of the brain.
It is the patient that runs the greatest risk, for many per-
sons take the office upon themselves without any ability
to du:charge its duties properly, and much trouble often
ensues in consequence. So well is this understood, that
in Prussia it is a criminal offence for any but physicians
to Opt'rate. Cases have occurred, under my notice, in
which the chellt has been raralyzed; in others, incessaut
7
Digitized by Coogle
'14 I'IUT STA8L
vumiting produced, and convulsions ha~e been ver1
common. Its true mode of action should be thoroughly
cmderstood before it is practised, and then only by tbe
order and in the presence of the physician himselt:
LADY. It is divided bto stages, is it not 1
DocToR. Yes, into six, each of which are again aub-
divided into six others, making thirty-six in all.
I The first stage seems a mere quickening of the senses;
it is characterized by a sensation of coolness, and a fee}.
ing of more wakefulness than before. In your own case,
at this point, you felt, I remember, rather more uneasy
than before I commenced ; but, in another instance, I
was told by the patient that it was impossible to operate
?n him, so much was his mind filled with the idea of a
necessity of going to sleep in being fascinated. I had
doubted his susceptibility up to the moment he spoke,
but I was then convinced I was affecting hir•\; and, in
fact, he was soon insensible. The quickening of the
senses is often shown without the agency of fascination,
as in fever, when the slightest noise will disturb a man,
whom, in health, the explosion of a cannon would not
move.
LADY. I have often felt so. Last week I had a severe
headache, and coull not endure any motion whatever
around me, and, if I was touched by accident, wu in
absolute pain.
DocToR. An extraordinary class of ph'iMlomenaowesitt
existence to a peculiar development of this susceptibility
I mean what is commonly called idiosyncracies, or pecu·
harities. I have heard Professor Revere speak of a
ludv who Jived in a state of agony during the ftowe1·ing
1eason f)f plants ; the pollen floating in the atmosphere
tctcJ npon her irritat>ility in such <\ ffla~ner as ~o pro-
Digitized by Coogle
miOIYJifCR.\STo
duce serious disease, realizing in her own experience
Pope's idea of
•Quick effluvia darting through the bnun,
Die of a rose in aromatic pain;"
,
.and, strange to say, his lines on more refined sensibility
tnd its consequences, have all been verified in this stage.
Some men cannot endure the presence, or even proxi
mity, of a cat; others abhor cheese. Stepping into a
friend's store one evening, while his clerk was ab~ent, to
procure some ipecac, I was requested to weigh it out
myself, and repl.-tce the bottle on the shelf; should he do
it, he said, it would cause him a week's illness. And
this seems, too, an instinctive precaution, warning the
system against unseen evil, and to disregard which
would be dangerous. The friends of a young lady hav·
ing tried in vain to induce her to eat cheese, enclosed a
very small quantity in some cake, which she swallowed
without suspicion ; an alarming and long continued ill·
ness was the result.
The sense of ch11lness, felt in the first, stage in•
creases, and the pulse begins to rise rapidly; the
aecond stage continues but a short time, and finally
ushers in the third, which is denoted by a dreamy and
triumphant state of feeling. If any pain exists it now
eeases, and the eyes close beyond the power of the will '
to open. The clnsure of the eyelids ·s, beyond doubt, '
enusetl by fixing the eyes so steadily on an object as to 1
exhaust their nervous power. 1\fr. Braid, of Manches·
ter, England, has proved this fact ; he considers that it
wil! aceount for all the phenomena of fascination. His
writings, however, demonstrate exhaust:on in a most
incontestible manner, but they most assuredly do nothing
,Ise; it was labor lost the f.'lcts being well knowa 1on&
Digitized by Coogle
'' FOVJlTB AND FJPTU STAGU.
before, and never doubted. Your personal experience
only reaches this stage.
LAov. Is it possible to .Produce curative effects with
out reaching the third stage 1
Do<:Toa. The second and even first, when thus arti&-
cially induced, will often have a beneficial influence
) But it is a difficult matter to mark out and separate theae
/ stages, closure of the eye not bei.Bg sufficient evidence,
' for it may not q_ccur at all. I heard this morning of a
man who had three teeth drawn while in one of these
stages, and was shown the teeth. The fascinator, after
trying several times to close his eyes without success,
undertook to draw the teeth. Though at other timea
exceedingly sensitive, the man from whom they were
drawn did not experience the slightest pain.
As the fourth stage is approached, rigidity of the mu&o
cles can be induced; the body and limbs may be fixed
in the most strange and painful attitudes without causing
any pain, and thus continue any length of time. Ar-
rived at the fourth, sensation totally ceases; and a cata··
leptic state intervenes. Surgical operations can now be
performed without pain, or the knowledge of the patient.
The nervous system undergoes a remarkable change ;
Pither the white matter is not capable of carrying, or the
grey of receiving, ordinary impressions.
The fourth is the highest state that man can induce
by artificial means ; but some persons are so peculiarly
constituted as to continue ascending. As they near
the fifth, clairvoyance becomes fully manifest. Pass•
mg the fifth, the spiritual obtains the entire predomi•
nance, and the things of the invisible world are displayed
with mor? oc· le~s d•' :'.l'll(~ss. in proportion as they verge
,.., the sixth whic:h is clc·ath.
Digitized by Coogle
ANGEL or DEATL
LAnY. 1-,asc.nation seems to me to be a separation
between our animal and vegetable lives. As tho ties
that bind the animal to earth are loosening, it gains
vigor and power; and qualities, the germ of which we
have only been enabled faintly to discern 'Jelow, ex·
pand to their full proportion, giving rich promise of
future capability. -
DoCToa. True ; and at the sixth, the separation of
soul and body is completed, and the corruptible puts on
incorruption, and the mortal immortality.
LADY. Then perhaps the final separation of soul and
body is accomplished by an angel fascinating us, and
death's cold dart be, after all, a pass from a superior
being. As I review the wonders I have just heard, it
appears to me exceeding strange that so minute a cause
as a pass in fascination should produce such astonishing
results. ·
DoCToa. It is a very difficult matter to tell what small
causes are. A little yeast, mixed with a thousand gal-
lons of malt infusion, will make the whole ferment. A
grain of calomel will sometimes alter the irritability of
the whole system. Why, then, should not the most
highly organized product in our bodies, acting, too, with
every advantage on the most sensitive powers of anoth·
er, produce a strange effect 1
But to return to our patients ift the goat skins ; you
will have no trouble now, I presume, in understanding
how it was that they had peculiar visions ; for, if my
aupposition of Satan first moving men to the discovery
of fascination be true, nothing can oe more rational than
to suppose he also appeared, or some of t.is demons,
assuming the form of Esculapius, and prescribing the
proper remedies for diseases. Though it must hav•
?•
Digitized by Coogle
.........
EMPEROR JULIAjf.
causeJ him considerable chagrin to reliove }-'lin, and in
~my way promote human happiness, still it had the ad•
vantage of increasing the faith of his de\'otees, and the
number of his followers. That Satan exercised a direct
i.11fluence on the mind of t~e emperor Julian is evident,
by his deadly hatred of all that pertained to our Saviour,
and his mad attempt to refute his prediction in relation
to the Jewish temple. Indeed, Julian himself tells us
that, when sick, he had often been cured by Esculapiu~
pointing out the proper remedies as he slept in that god"s
temple:
It would be an easy matter to fill volumes with proofs
taken from the early history of the ancient nations;
proofs, too, which show, in the most convincing mannet
that fascination was univenmlly known and practised by
· the priests of the temple11 ; and that it was principally
in this way they were enabled to retain their power and
influence over the people. Even Origen tells us that in
his day vast multitudes flocked to the temples of Escu•
lapius for relief from infirmities ; and distinctly intimates
that many remarkable cures were re111ly performed. A
few instances from these early times are all we can con•
aider at present.
Charles Radclyffe Hall gives to Apollonius Tyanneua
the palm as a mesmerizer. He seems to have been a
man of prodigious fascinating power, and was not only
famous tor curing diseases, and his powers of clairvoy·
ance, but also in foretelling events. While delivermg a
p~blic lecture at Ephesus, in the midst of a large assern·
bly, he saw the emperor Domitian being murdered at
Rome; apd it was proved, to the sa.:isf.'lction of all, that
while the murder was performing, he described every
:ir~umstance ~ttending it to the <~rowd, and announced
... ..
Digitized by Coogle
•he ve1y instant in which the tyrant was slain. It i
recorded, that so great was his nervous influence, that
his mere presence, without uttering a single word, wat
sufficient to quell popular tumults.
Pythagoras, also, ranks high, and not undeservedly.
1\fter receiving his education in Egypt,. he ever after
assumed the dress of a priest of Isis. It is related of
him that he r.ould give relief from any pain cr disease;
his method consisted in passing the hacds slowly over
the body, beginning with the head, retaining them for
some time at a little distance from the place oi disease.
In c.ommon with the philosophers of his day, he veiled
the real means of relief under the form of an incanta
tion; for, while fascinating, he kept cont!nual!y uttering
.nagical words. His power over the lower animala
must also have been considerable; he is said to have
tamed a furious bear, prevented an ox from eating
beans, and stopped an eagle in its flight.
Hippocrates, the father of medicine, was n•)t himself
entirely free from the wish to keep this means of cure
secret. He informs us that there are two distinct
parts in the practice of medicin&-the common, such
as young herLs. and the secret; which latter must only
be divulged to particular persons, who are'! in favor
with superior powers. He m~ntions, that when the
eyes are closed, there are times in which tbe soul can
discern diseases in the body; and also that the light we
derive from dren.na is a g1 eat help in our proRrell ta
wisdom.
Digitized by Coogle
OONV ERSATIOlf V.
IIPDUTU.lL STATU.
LADY. 1 am glad to see you this rr <in iog, Doc.:to1
1 wanted to ask you if cases ever occut red, in our day
of persons seeing the spiritual world I remembez
;our remark of the celestial gates, in Mansoul, being
.olosed, but they were not tak,.en away; why, then,
should they not be occasionally opened in the nineteenth
~entury, as well as the first 1
DocTOR. A little research will convince you that
'luch cases are anything but uncommon: that of William
Tennant, a Presbyterian clergyman, of Brunswick, New
Jersey, is well known, and of undoubted truth.
He tells us, that while conversing with his brother on
the state of his soul, and the fears he entertained for his
future welfare, he found himself, in an instant, in another
state of existence, under the direction of a superior
Being, who ordered him to follow. He was imme-
diately wafted along, he knew not how, till he beheld,
at a distance, an ineffable glory, the impression of
which he found it impossible to communicate to mortal
man. "I immediately reflected on my happy change,
eud thought, Well, blessed be God I I am safe at last,
notwithstanding all my fears. I saw an innumerable
host of happy beings, surrounding the inexpressible
glory, in nets of adoration and joyous worship; but I
did not see any bodily shape or representation in the
&if>rioua appearance. I heard things unutterable.
Digitized by Coogle
T&ANCE 01' TENNAII'I'o
beard their songs and hallelujahs of thanksgiving and
praise, with unspeakable rapture. I felt joy unutterable
aad full of glory. I then applied to my conductor. and
requested leave to join the happy throng; on which he
tapped me on the shoulder, and said, 'You must return
to earth.' This seemed like a sword through my heart.
In an instant, I recollect to have seen my brother dis-
puting with the doctor. The three days during which
I had appeared lifeless, seem~d to be of not more than
ten or twenty minutes. The idea of returning to this
world of sorrow and trouble gave me such a shock that
I fainted repeatedly. Sooh was the effect on my mind
of what I had seen and heard, that if it be possible for
~. human being to live entirely above the world and the
things of it, for some time afterward I was that person.
The ravishing sound of the songs and hallelujahs that I
heard, and the very words that were uttered, were not
out o"f my ears for at least three years. All the king-
.Joms of the earth were, in my sight, as nothing and
vanity; and so great were my ideas of heavenly glory,
that nothing which did not, in some measure, relate to
tt, could command my serious attention."
So numerous are the cases of this kind of experience,
that time would not be profitably occupied in consider-
ing them; but it will be well to dwell a moment on
another class, of opposite character, which is not lesa
frequent.
I have often seen men who, after a prolonged indu}.
gcnce in every species of wickedness and blasphemy,
have suddenly experienced a change, which gave the
rpiritual, in their system, the predominating influence.
At such times they become awnre of the presence of
.hu devils, who h acting upon the corruptions of theu
Digitized by Google
D&LI&IOIII T&£.111&118.
nearta, have been successfully enga.ged ill temptiDa
them to sin.
More heart-rending pictures than these, of agony aitJ
distress, are seldom or never witnessed. They have
many times described to me the shapes and gesturea of
their tormentors, and the unholy thoughts they were
endeavoring to instil into their minds. While speaking
to me, they would often be seized with a frenzy of fear,
and would close the eyelids, and cover them with their
hands, in a vain attempt to shut out the horrible spec-
tacle. An urgent desire to commit suicide in some
violent manner is generally felt, and m•my find it im
pnssihlc to re~ist the temptation. l\[ultitudes, in this
way, are lost every year. I should remark, here, tha
delirium tremens can be produced in many ways with-
out the use of alcohol, as by tobacco and opium.
We are thus enabled to trace, in a measure, the deal
ings of heaven with our fallen race. The good man
worn down by disease and grief, as was Tennant, is not
allowed to despair ; his heart is cheered, and he is en·
couraged to persevere by a view of the mansions pre-
pared for him when his toils and troubles are ended
below. The bad man is sudd('nly arrested in his career
of wickedness, by withdrawing the veil th~t covers
invisible things, and is thus shown his prompters in
vice, and the future companions he must assoc :ate with
in eternity whose torments he must share if he continues
in the way of destruction. Happily, in some a change
is produced. I know one to whom the warning sufficed,
and who, at the present time, is serving under the ban-
ners of the 11 rinc<. )f Peace.
LADY. And this aceounts exactly for the manner in
ffhich. Elisha's sen·ant, t 1at you mcntinne,J some timt
Digitized by Coogle
BEATUEN FASCJNA'l'O&S.
Iince, had h1s eyes opened. When Elisha prayed.
"Lord, I pray thee, open his eyes," he must hale meant
the spiritual oMs ; for the others could discen: the sur•
rounding danger. I suppose the Saviour and 1is apoa.
ties and prophets performed the miracles recorded m
Scripture by means of great e1.dowments of iascinating
power.
DoCToR. On the contrary, there is so b::-oad a line
of distinction drawn between the power of performing
miracles, and that of fascinating, that it seems impioua
to confound the two.
The difference between the heathen fasdnators and
the priests of Jehovah was well shown when they finally
failed to compete with Moses in showing wonders, and
were forced at the last to exclaim, "This :~ the finger
of God."
Passing Balaam and the prophets cf Bani, who com·
peted with Elijah, let us examine the witch of Endor.
Artificially inducing clain·oyanee, an:l thus holding in·
tercourse with familiar spirits, was pnniaiaaHe by death
in Israel.
LADY. I would ask if you think the wom'Ll fascinateo
Saul?
DoCToR~ By no means; the whole scene in the 19th
chapter of Samuel has its counterpart in m&i1Y a similar
transaction of the present day. A friend of mine once
wishing to obtain intelligence of a son whv had been
:feaJ about three years, went to the house of a clairvoy·
n!lt. At his request I was present. The husband of
the clninoyant put her to sleep, and, i!l a lit•Je time sne
announced the fact of her '1piritual state, an~ soon after•
wards found the gentleman's son. Messages were given
and received by both parent and chile.• through the me
Digitized by Coogle
........
WlTCB 01 BHDOL
dium of the clairvoyant. and my .friend departed n..'»
tied : although I still felt incredulous.
When Saul entered the woman of Endor's house, the
latter was evidently unaware t ...fhis character; and it wu
only upon a strong pledge she consented to employ her
art. The moment she entered the clairvoyant state,
however, she was at once aware of the rank of her
guest, and exceedingly frightened at the consequences.
Our translation reads as if she was scared at Samuel, but
this was evidently not the case--witness the cry, "Wh)
hast thou deceived me 1 for thou art Saul." When
after he had succeeded in tranquilizing her personal
fears, she gave the description of her spiritual visitant,
Saul perceived that it was Samuel, and bowed himself
to the ground. The conversation occurred through thP
woman, who, on being awakened when it was finished
had so little recollection of all the occurrences as to be
totally unaware of his rank, and persuade him to eat iD
her house and recover his exhausted strength.
The manner in ~hich the magicians were enabled
o foretell events is graphically shown in the 22nd
chapter of the first book of Kings: "I saw the Lord
sitting on his throne, and all the host of heaven standing
by him on his right hand and on his left. And the Lord
said, Who shall persuade Ahab, that he may go up and
fall at Ramoth-Gilead 1 And one said in this manner
and another said in that manner. And there came forth
a spirit and stood before the Lord, and said, I will per·
auade him. And the Lord said unto him, Wherewith 1
Aud he said, I will go tOrth, and I will be n lying spirit
.in the mouth of all his prophets. And he said, Thou
ahalt periuade him, and prevail also : go forth and
clo tO."
Digitized by Coogle
•AAIIIAN AND BLUI8A. 81
Of course, then, when the king, rejecting the adv ce of
Jehovah's minister, sought counsel of his own seersJ
they gave him the revelations of the false familiar.
And it was not the only time evil befell man, when, "aa
the sons qf God cal'f!e to present themselves before the
Loao, Satan came also amongst them."
When Naaman came to Elisha to be healed from hi1
leprosy, it was evidently with the expectation of visiting
a more 'Powerful fascinator than any in his own country.
Elisha, to render him aware of his error, would not let
him enter the house, but as soon as the horses and cha·
riot stopped at his door, sent out a messenger, saying
" Go and wash in Jordan seven times, and thy flesh
shall come again to thee, and thou shalt be clean." But
Naaman was wroth, and went away and said: "Behold.
I thought, he will surely come out to me, and stand and
call on the name of the Lord his God, and strike hu
lutnd over the place, (in the context it reads, move lu
hand up and down over the place), and recover the
lf'per.''
LADY. I have always been struck with th narrative
myself, but your view explains the whole matter to my
tmtire satisfaction, and I do not wonder at the effect it
produced on Naaman's mind, to cause him to renounce
his idolatry, when he retumed cured out of the river,
after his servants persuaded him to obey tlw\ prophet's
:njunction.
DoCToR. These instances will show how totally out ot
the power of all physiological explanations were the mir-
acles I have before mentioned the accusation brought
against our Saviour of having gained his wonderful
powers hy stealing magic secrets from the Egyptian
'emples Had those who preferred the charge been u
Digitized by Coogle
'AIITING OUT PBVIL8.
open to conviction as the idolator Naautan, but little
observation would have convinced them of its ground·
lessness.
LADY. Did the magicians ever pretend to cast ou1
devils? · ·
D.>croa. Our Saviour presumes that power in com·
mon use amongst them when he says, (Matt. xii., 27,)
in answer to their remark of his casting out devi'11 by
the power of Beelzebub: "And if I by Beelzebub cast
oui; devils, by whom do your children cast them out ?"
Josephus accounts for this power in speaking of Solo·
mon, whose sagacity and wisdom he pronounces to ex·
.:eed those of the ancients ; "insomuch that he was in
10 way inferior to the Egyptians, who .are said to have
?een beyond all men in understanding; nay, indeed it
was very evident that their sagacity was very much
•tferior to that of the king's." .. God also enabled him
1 >learn that skill which expels demons, which is a use-
l .11 science to men. He composed such incantations,
a lso, by which distempers are alleviated ; and left be·
Ilind him the manner of using exorcisms, by which theJ
drive away demons, so that they never return ; and
this method of cure is of !""eat force until this day.
For I have seen a certain man of my own country,
whose name was Eleazar, releasing the people that were
demoniacal in the presence of Vespasian, and his sons,
and his captains, and the multitude of his soldiers ; and
the manner of the cure was this : he put a rin~, that had
a root of one of those sorts mentioned by Solomon, to
the nostrils of the demoniac, after which he drew out
the demon through his nostrils ; and when the man fell
down, he adjured him to return unto him no more, mak
._
'Jigetill mention of So'omon, and reciting the itean'-
Digitized by Coogle
FASCINATION LAWFUl.. 8'
lions which he composed And when Eleazar would
demonstrate to the spectators that he had such a power,
he set a little way off a cup or basin full of water, and
commanded the demon as he went out of the man to
overturn it; and thereby let the spectators know that
he had left the man. And, when this was done, the skill
and-wisdom of Solomon were shown very clearly."
LADY. After all, the practice of divination was forbid·
den by the Jewish law, and the penalty was death. It
it deserved so severe a punishment in those days, how
can it be harmless in our own 1
DoCToa. In former times, the higher powers of fas-
cination were universally abused, and made to subserve
idolatry. Those who practised it, sedulously kept the
people in perfect ignorance as to its real nature. Even
when fascinating, the priests· continually chanted magic
verses, to which all the curative powers were ascribed.
Still it appears to have been lawful to use it for benevo-
lent purposes, as the physicians did not scruple to em-
ploy its inJluence for king David.
LADY. Casting out devils, from an account given in
Acts xix, 13, was not always attended with safety:
' Then certain o£ the vagabond Jews, exorcists, took
11pon themselves to call over them which had evil spi-
rits the name of the Lord Jesus, saying, We adjure you
by Jesus, whom Paul preacheth. And there were seven
tons of one Sceva, a Jew, and chief of the priests, which
did so; and the evil spirit answered and said, Jesus I
know, and Paul I know, but who are ye 1 And the man
in whom the evil spirit was, leaped on thnm and over-
eame them, and prevailed against them, ao that they
lied out of that house naked and wounded."
Dortoa. It was not 0nly among tht! ancients t~
o;gitizedbyGoogle J
18 llOBE&1 COCHUX,
false religions, based on assumptions and suppo1tcd bJ
the pretended miracles of fascination, exi>ted ; there il
':Juite as much of this kind of imposture prevalent iD
modern times.
Some years ago, in the town of ~aco, in Maine, lived
Robert Cochran, a man who, by pretending to a more
than ordinary share of inspiration-working wondel"',
curing diseases by the laying on of hands, and other
apparent miracles--created a schism in the church to
which he belonged, drawing after him a CJowd of
zealous followers. Upon his death, as his mantle did
uot descend to another, the society declined in numben.
until. finally, nothing more was heard of the schismatics
for a long period. Some time afterward, when the sect
had nearly been forgotten, a man-who, it was known,
had many years before embraced Cochran's tenets, and
had, since then, lived a life of perfect seclusion-entered
_the town on business. Passing by a lawyer's office, hil
attention was attracted by a gentleman in it fascinating
the lawyer's son. He stood, transfixed with astonish-
ment, before the door, until the process was completed
and the boy asleep; when he exclaimed aloud, "My
God I that is the way in which Robert Cochran used to
give the Holy Ghost."
The Mormons rest their claims of being the true
church on the same basis: "Is any sick among you, let
him send for the elders of the church, and let them pray
over him, anointing hi'll with oil in the name of the
Lord, and the prayer of faith shall save the sick man."
It is a notorious fact that the exhibition of this proof, as
they wish it to be supposed, of apostolic power, has been
the means of converting the majority of that deluded
&eet. Some three years since, I attended a Mormon
Digitized by Coogle
MOlMONlSM R9
lady, who ha.i diseaa<. of the heart, with n1arket\ sue·
cess. One day, while operating, an elder of the faith.
who stood by, remarked that I possessed the gift of lay·
ing on of hands. I paid very little attention to his
remark at the time; but some weeks afterward, while
visiting a friend one evening, I heard a lady explaining
the tenets of Mormonism, and triumphantly quoting her
own case as an illustration of the fact of their possess-
ing apostolic power, mare especially the gift of healing
by laying on of hands; she had frequent attacks of
tic doloreux, and nothing except that rite of the Mormon
church had ever sufficed, for one moment, to alleviate
the pain. .
She was speaking with considerable animation, anu
had prodt.:ed a powerful impression on the minds of
those present, but was suddenly arrested, in the midst
of her interesting and Wlthusiastic discourse, by an
attack of that horrid disease. Finding that she wat
suffering the most exquisite agony, I rose rather hea;.
tatingly-for I dislike scenes--and offered to relieva
her, giving her the assurance that one of the Mormon
elders had pronounced me in possession of the gift. The
drowning will catch at a stra\v; and my proposition
was assented to, but evidently without any hope of
1uecess on the part of the sufferer. In less than a
minute-for her system had been prepared by repeated
fuscinations-she was powerfully under my influence,
and •he relief was immeasurably greater thdn it had
ever been before. After awaking the lady, I explained
the whole matter to those present; and it is very prob-
able that but few of my hearers ever undertook a pil·
grimage to the holy city of Nauvoo.
In clnasifying the fanntir.al sects, the Swedenborgiana
s•
o;gitizedbyGoogle "'
8W&D&NBOJlG.
follow the Mormons Their name is deriveti from
Emmanuel Swedenborg, a Swedish philosopher who
became clairvoyant in the fifty-third year of his age, in
1743. The ascendancy of the spiritual over the mate-
rial occurred naturally in him, probably owing to some
defect in the constitution; for intense study and a
sedentary life paved the way for this change. Sweden-
borg rejected faith-that is, would not believe any·
thing which c.ould not be demonstrated to the under
standing-the faculty that judges according to the
1enses----and of course would not receive any religion,
the doctrines of which he could not perfectiy compre-
hend.
He ardently desired a knewledge of the soul, and the
method he took to procure this knowledge gives a good
Illustration of his character. He tried to obtain biG
Nish by confining his experi1!lents to the dead body
ro give his own words: "The body being her (tht•
:oul's) resemblance, image, and type, for this purpose I
tm resolved to study her whole anatomy, from top to
~oe." Had he but studied the laws of life in their living
operation, he would have escaped the errors he after-
ward blundered into.
LADY. Such a mode of operation seems to me about
as rational as going into a printer's office when he 11
out, and trying to form an idea of his countenance from
an examination of the type lying around ; or inspecting
n worn-out and cast-off steam-engine, with an idea to
mvest1gate the properties of steam: life ir. the one case,
knd vapor in the other, (the only things that cnn give
the required information.) being equally absent.
DocToR. Swedenborg, not finding his own obse"a.
i~ns l'ery satisfartory, calls t:- his aid the observations
Digitized by Coogle
.litATEIUALISM.
ur others, and professes, on this subject, to have obo
taiued the greater part of his knowledge from books,
and those written by men who, like himself, from the
shape of fibre and spiracle, endeavored to diagnose the
functions and mode of operation of each organ. His
philosophical works are filled with such nonsense u
~his, and, as he proceeds, there is a gradual and legiti-
mate degeneration into downright materialism of a
modified character ; he proclaimed all life to consist in
an influx from Deity, and that a plant, a dog, and a man,
differ, in reality, orly in the shape of their receptacles.
You will easily understand how he gained this idea, by
r.onsidering the brains of different animals, and consid-
ering that of man as only a little more powerful and
complicated than his inferiors in the animated scale.
The study of living nature would have taught him the
lifference between the faculty, judging by sense, and
.hat in which reason, free-will, and self-consciousness
existed. Knowledge, on such a sub~ect, gained from
. the dead body, is only such
--" aa putrefaction breeds
In fly-blown flesh, whereon the maggot feeds,
Shines in the dark; but, uahered into day,
The atench remain11-tbe luatre dies away."
' Swedenborg was a moralist. His pride dispensed
with a crucified Saviour, and consequently a Trinity.
"The h uth is, that the division of God, or of the Divine
et~senee, mto three persons, each of which by himself, or
singly, is God. leads to the denial of God." "It is as if
there should be Unity and Trinity painted as a man
with three heads upon one body, or with three bodiet
under one head, which is the form of a monster. ~f
ny one $/Jould enter heaven 1rith suc·h an idea, he wtn~ld
Digitized by Coogle
... LAST JUDGJIBNT
eerta&11.ly be cast out headlong, although he &"ould 14)
that the head or heads signified ess£11.ce, and tl~.e body fJI
bodiu distinct properties."
LADY. Do you not think that a person who is really
nonest in an erroneous opinion will be saved 1
DocToa. I do not believe that erroneous opinions of
the doctrines of salvation can be honestly entertained.
Our Saviour tells us: "He that doeth the will of my
Father shall know him that sent me." He has promised
his Spirit to guide us into all truth. Consequently, if
we really want instruction, by the perusal of the Scrip-
tures, and prayer, with an active, watchful life, we can
obtain all we wish from Him who giveth wisdom to all
men liberally, and upbraideth not.
Following the example of many others who preceded
him, Swedenborg allegorized the. Scriptures, with the
exception of the Epistles, which, sturdily resisting aU
such attempts, he pronounced wanting in an internal
sense. He fortifks the dogmas of his system by direct
consultation with, and advice from, the celestial powerr.
Finally, buoyed up beyond measure, he declared that
the second coming of Christ was manifested in his per·
son, and that his illumination (clairvoyance) ushered in
the last judgment. which took place, not on earth, but
in the spiritual world. Among other interesting mat·
ters, we are informed, by him, that in the interior of
Africa exists a race of spiritual believers (the term he
applied to his disciples) : that marriages take place in
heaven as well as upon earth, our Saviour's words oa
that subject being figurative; that God resembles a maa
in shape, his body forming the universe, each atom be-
:Og a solar system ; that a man consists of five spirit•
one contained within the other, like a nest of ai'Otho
Digitized by Coogle
Qt ~BN or 8W£DBH. 93
cary's pill-boxes; man i11 not naturally aware of hie
only he (Swedenborg) being permitted to see and
reveal the mystery ; that there is a purgatory of thirty
years; that in heaven there are separate places for dif.
ferent nations; that, in heaven, God is seen by the
angels, with the right eye as a sun, with the left eye u
a moon ; that there are lower animals in the spiritual
world ; sickness exists there, etc., etc.
Several well-attested cases ofSwedenborg's clairvoy.
ant powers are recorded. Once, while dining with a
friend, at a place many miles distant from his own town.
he suddenly rose and walked out in the open air, seem·
ingly in great agitation. At length he entered the house,
apparently composed, and informed the company present
that there was a great conflagration near his own resi·
dence, and that he had been fearful for its safety; but it
had just been quenched within one door of his house.
The next post brought a full and perfect confirmation of
all he had said.
At another time, when the queen of Sweden was jest-
ing with Swedenborg on account of his pretensions to
intercourse with the spiritual world, he offered to con·
vince her of the fact by any proof she could propote
She told him that the late king, her husband, at the mo-
ment of death, when she was alone with him, had whis-
pered something important to her, and if he (Sweden-
borg) could tell her what it was, she would be satisfied
that he had spiritual communication. The next after-
noon, Swedenborg called on her, mentioned that he had
aeen her husband, and had been infQrmed by him what
lfere his last words, which he then told the queen. Her
majesty immediately swooned away, aud, on recover•
ing, expressed her astonishmert: declaring that she
Digitized by Coogle
SPllllTUAL SJUPB,
had no tonger any doubt relative to the pniloto<•pher'a
power.
Swetlenborg taught that the spirit g.ves shape to the
oody, and if any member (as a leg) is lost, still the per
feet spiritual shape is preserved. Some persons confirm
this view by instancing cases where pain remains in the
toes after the limb to which tho~e toes belonged has been
cut off.
LADY. Do such cases ever occur 1
DoCToR. Very frequently. The next day, and some•
times for months after amputation, considerable pain is
felt in the excised member. After the nerves have Dll·
bituated themselves to their new relations, it cease.c.
Physiologists account for this singular matter in variot a
ways ; but many consider the spiritual solution the bes •
He also taught that after death, as the body remained i 1
exactly the same shape, it was very difficult, from the
preconceived notions of that state, for the deceased tu
really believe they were in another world. He seems
to entertain much dishke to Calvin, whQse entrance to
the spiritual world he thus describes: "I have heard
(from the angels) that when he first came into the spi·
ritual world, he believed no otherwise than that he was
still in the world where he was born ; and, although he
heard from the angels who were associated with him at
his first entrance, that he was now in their world, and
not in his former world, he said, •I have the same body,
the same hands, and the like senses.' But the angels
instructed him that he was now in a substantial body.
and that before he was not only in the same, but in a
material bofly, which invested the substantial; and that
the material body had been cast off and the substantial
temained, which is man. This, a~ first, he understood
Digitized by Coogle
IEBRESS OJ' P.ll&VOUT. 91
out the next day, et(}." As we have spent sufficient
Lime on Swedenborg, I must conclude by mentioning
that his religion was evidently formed before his illu·
mination, and that, clairvoyant only in a low degree,
his philosophy every where chimes in with his revela·
tiona.
LADY. Have others ever given to the world any
similar experience 1
DocToa. Many have done so; of whom the seeress
of Prevorst is an instance. In 183-, in the upper part
of our city, a boy resided in whom this anomaly ex-
isted. A Methodist minister lived in the same house
and being much interested in the boy, would often take
him as a companion while visiting his charge. The Lo.t
would often cross the street to avoid the proximity af
some one passing ; and, upon being asked the reasons
lor his conduct, would reply, "that the person was
wi~ked, and had given evil spirits power over him, and
he ~ould see them flocking round, filling his mind with
t~vil suggestions." Some time after this, two young
ladies passed a night in attendance upon a poor woman
who was dying; her children, a boy and two girls, w&re
m the room. Just before her death, she called the bo)
to her, and, after a little conversation, they heard her
remark, " Is that all?" While his mother was dying,
the boy fell upon the floor in a convulsive fit, in which
he ~ontinued, despite of all assistance, some ten minutes;
but at last rose, exclaiming," Mother is happy, and I am
satisfied !" and was perfectly calm afterwards. The
tadies seized a chance, afforded by the temporary ab-
sence of the boy, to ask the girls what all this meant;
they replied, that their brother could see spirits, and their
mother. wishing to find out what some dark form.
Digitized by Coogle
PROPHETS IN ISRAEL.
around her bed were saying, he told her they metel)
came to carry her off, when she rE;p!ed, " Is that a!lt'
On inquiry, they found it was the same boy with wtoiP
the Methodist mini.<~ter was acquainted.
It is probable that the prophets in Israel, in ancient
times, had the powers of the inner man developca.
This change in the system seems to have been the test
Elijah gave Elisha, whether his request would be grantea.
"And it came to pass, when the Lord would take up
Elijah into heaven by a whirlwind, that Elijah went
with Elisha from Gilgal," etc. ''And it came to pass,
when they were gone over, that Elijah said unto Elisha,
-\.sk what I shall do for thee before I am taken from
thP.e. And Elisha said, I pray thee, let a double portion
of thy spirit be upon me. And he said, Thou hast asked
a hard thing; nevertheless, if thou see me when I am
taken from thee, it shall be so unto thee," etc. "And it
came to pass, as they still went on and talked, that behold
there came a chariot of fire, and horses of fire, and
pa1 ted them both asunder ; and Elijah went up br 1
whirlwind into heaven, and Elisha .,..., it." etc.
Digitized by Coogle
CONVERSATION VI.
BTAGBB IN DYil'IG. •
Docrot. ..\..s wo have considered the nnoua at~
I){ fascinatltM, from a me1e quickening of the senses to
death, it will he welt to conaider this last a little more m
detail; as, in do~g so, we shall in a measure review the
.1thers. ·
Wl'Y. Does the dying penon pass through the si•
stages in regular st1ccession1
DoCToR. I believe that is geuerally the case.
LADY. But ~ow then do you account for the extreme
pain that is often felt in dying 1 The stages of fascina·
t10n soothe pnin-they do not cause it.
DoCToR. That is very true ; and when these stages
really commence there is no longer any pain ; but up
o the first stage the fatal disease exe\ ts unlimited sway
After the fourth commences, bodily insensibility is an
nevitable consequence; the violent convulsions of the
muscles do not cause suffering in the mind. Dr. Adam
Clarke, when relating his recovering from drowning,
stated to Dr. Lettsom that, during the period of his ap-
parent unconsciousness, he felt a new kind of life. He
says," Now I aver, I st. That, in being drowned, I felt
no pain. 2d. That I did not, for a sing)~ moment, lose
my consciousness. 3d. I felt indescribably happy; and
though dead, as to the t~tal suspension of all the func-
tions of life, yet I felt no pain in dying ; SPd I taie i' i>J
Jr&nted, from this CiTCQMI'tal\<'4. tboM WhC die bJ
g
Digitized by Coogle
NO PAIN IN IJYING.
drowning feel Dr> pain, and that probably it is the easiest
of all deaths. 4th. That I felt no pain till once more
exposed to the action of the atmospheric air ; and then
I felt great anguish and pain in returning to life, which
anguish, had I continued under water, I never should
have experienced," etc.
Dr. Moore cites Mr. Green, who, in his diary, men·
txons a person who had been hung and cut down on a
reprieve, who, being asked what were his sensations
stated that the preRarations were dreadful beyond ex·
pression, but that, on being dropped, he instantly found
himself amidst fields al}d rivers of blood, which gradu·
Ally acquired a greenish tinge. Imagining that if he
could reach a certain spot he should be easy, he seemed
to himself to struggle forcibly to attain it, and then he
relt no more. Schiller, when dying, was asked how he
felt. "Calmer and calmer," he replied. Dr. Moore
11ays that when the vital flame flickered, almost extin-
guished, the heart faltering with every pulse, and every
breath a convulsion, he said to a dying believer, who
had not long before been talking of undying love, " Are
you in pain 7" and the reply, with apparently the last
breath, was, "It is delightful !" In another person, in
whom a gradual disease had so nearly exhausted the
physical powers that the darkness of death had already
produced blindness, the sense of God's love was so
overpowering, that every expression, for many hou;'B,
referred to it in rapturous words, such as, " This is life-
this is heaven-God is life-!need not faith-I have tlul
promtse r'
LADY. I would ask if there is any certain sign by
which we may recognize dead· so as to prevent bury·
ing alive 1 ·
Digitized by Coogle
rEST OF .DBATB.
Docroa Only one, and that is putrefactio.t. Dendy
ettes several cases of prematu1e interment, some of
which I will mention :
On the exhumation of the Cimetiere des Innocents at
Paris, during the Napoleon dynasty, the skeletons were
many of them discovered in attitudes struggling to get
free ; indeed some, we are assured, were partly out of
their coffins. So noted was this matter in Germany, aa
to gi\·e rise to a custom .of placing a bell-rope in the
hand of a corpse for twenty-four hours before burial.
Miss C. and her brother were the subjects of typhoid
fever. She seemed to die, and her bier was placed in
the family vault. In a week her brother died also, and
when he was taken to the tomb, the lady was found
ritting in lte1· grave-clothes on the steps of the vault.
having, after her waking from the trance, died of terror
or exhaustion.
A girl, after repeated faintings, was apparently dead
and taken as a subject into a dissecting room in Paris.
During the night, faint groans were heard in the room;
but no search was made. In the morning it was appa
rent that the girl had attempted to disengage llerse?ffrcm
tile winding-sheet, one leg being thrust o:f from the tret
sels, and an arm resting on an adjoining table.
The emperor Zeno was prematurely buried; ami
when the body was soon after casually discovered, it
was found that he had, to satisfy acute hunger, r.aten
rome.flesh from off his arm.
LADY. Have there not been cases in which recovery
has t3ken place 1
DocToJt. None that bear any proportion tt. the pre-
mature interments. A romantic story is told of a younP.
French lady at Paris, who ·was condemned by her fathe1
Digitized by Coogle
too IUJlYING ALIVL
to a hated marriage, while her heart was devoted to
another. She fell into a trance and was buried. Under
some strange influence her lover opened her grave, and
i!!he was revived and married. Dendy,tells a story of
another strange lady, who was actually the subject of
an anatomist. On the existence of some faint signs of
vitality, he not only restored the lady to life, but united
himself to her in marriage.
Bourgeois tells that a medical man, in 1838, from the
snodcn influence of grief upon the organic system, sunk
into a cataleptic state, but his consciousness never left
\Jim. The lamentations of his wife, the condolence of
friends, and the arrangements regarding his funeral,
were all distinctly heard. Perfectly aware of all that
was going on around him, he was placed in the coffin,
and carried in solemn procession to the grave. As the
solemn words, "Earth to earth," were uttered, and the
first clod fell upon his coffin lid, so sudden an influence
was produced upon his organic system by terror, as to
neutralize the effect of grief-he shrieked aloud, and waa
saved.
A story is related of a lady who fell into a cataleptic
state after a violent nervous disorder. It seemed to her,
as if in a dream, that she was really dead ; yet she was
perfectly conscious of all that happened around her in
his dreadful state. She distinctly heard her friends
speaking and lamenting her death at the side of her cof·
fin: she felt them pull on her dead clothes, and lay her
in it. This feeling produced a mental anxiety which
was indescribable. She tried to cry, but her soul wa1
without power, and could not act on her body. She
had the contradictory feeling aa if she were in her own
body, and yet not in it at the same time. It was aa
Digitized by Google
a!SUSCl1'A1'10!f. IOJ
equally impossible for her to streten <. ut her arm or to
open her eyes as to cry, although she continually endea•
vored to do so. The internal anguish of her mind waSt
however, at its utmost height when the funeral hymns
were sang, and when the lid of the coffin was about to
be nailed on. The thought that she was to be buried
alive was the first one which gave activity to her soul.
and caused it to operate on ner corporeal frame.
Abbe Menon tells of a cataleptic girl, who was
doomed to dissection; when laid on the table, the first
cut of the knife awoke her and she lived. Less fortu-
nate, says Dendy, was Cardinal Somaglia, who, falling
into syncope from intense grief, it was decided that he
should be opened and embalmed. As the surgeon's
knife punctured the lungs, the heart throbbed, and the ·
cardinal attempted to avert the knife with his hand ; but
the DIE was cast, and he died.
A_ gentleman was apparently seized with apoplexy
while at cards. A vein was opened in both arms, but
no blood flowed. He was placed in a room with two
watchers, who slept, alas I too long ; for, in the mom
ing, the room was deluged with blood from the pone,
tures, and his life was gone.
LADY. Did the persons who recovered relate any
spiritual views 1
DocToR. In some cases ; but the most of them expo.
nenced nothing more than a separation between organic
and nnim:tl life, so complete, indeed, as to deprive them
of the nso of the ~oluntary muscles for a time. A roo
'Yie\V of these facts will justify the conclusion that inter
ment is wrong until putrefaction commences.
Wonderful stories have been related in all ages about
the wonders of trance, or the fifth degree. Moore ~ivet
Digitized by Coogle
TIIF:SPESIOS OF SOLi.
the substance of one from Plutarch : Thespesios of Sol
fell violently on his neck, and was supposed to be dead.
Three days after, however, when about to be interred,
be recovered. From this time, a wonderful thange was
npparent in his conduct ;. for he had been licentious and
prodigal, but ever after was devout, noble, and con•
scientious. On his friends re1uiring the reason of this
strange conversion, he stated that during his apparent
death, his rational soul had experienced marvellous
vicissitudes ; his whole being seemed at first on a sudden
to breathe, and to look about it on every side, as if the
soul had Leen all eye, while, at the same time, he felt as
if gliding gently along, borne upon a stream of light.
'l'hen he seemed to meet a spiritual person of unuttera·
ble loveliness, who conducted him to various parts of
the unseen world, and explained to him the mysteries
of divine government, and showed him the manner in
·vhich wickedness meets its reward. This vision ex-
'rted all the influence of truth upon his mind, and en-
tirely altered his character and conduct.
The Methodist denomination ::~fford many strange
instances of singular exrerience, so well known that it
would be useless to repeat them. We will conclude
the degrees by a chapter from Dr. Nelson, who, in his
CAHSE AND CuRE OF INFIDELITY, (a work published by
the American Tract Society, and which ought to lay on
the shelf of every f.<tmily in the land, with the Bibae
nnd Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress; a work, too, which
no child of mine, able to tell the lepers, should ever fail
o peruse and commit to memory,) mentions several
ca11es of the ,pening of the spiritual eye. The unbd-
liever, at th" point of death, sees the reality of those
things at wh'ch he formerly scoffed ; he comm~nces the
Digitized by Coogle
APPROACHING DEATH. 103
passage of the river (a transition of the stages) with
stoical indifference, but before reachiug the other side
evinces the most terrible despair, and the parting spirit
tids ad1eu in a wail of agony. The follower of the
Man of CalV'ary approaches the brink with fear, but
ere long, the choral music of the seraphim proves a cor•
dial to his fainting spirit, he pants to enter the blessed
abodes he sees opening before him, and the rapturous
exclamation, " Lord, receive my spirit I" announces that
he sleeps in Jesus. You are sufficiently prepared to ap-
preciate the physiological state he describes without fur-
ther explanation.
OBSERVATIONS ON MAN'S DEPARTURE.
"While 11ttending medical lectures at Philadelphia, I beard, &om the
lady with whom I boarded, an account of certa.in individuals who were
dead to all appearance, during the prevalence of the yellow fever in that
~city, aud yet recovered. The fact that they aaw, or fancied they eaw
lbinga in the world of apirita, awakened my curiosity.
"She told me of one, with whom abe waa acquainted, who waa 10
confident of his diacoveries that he had seemingly thought of little eJ.e
afterWRrd, and it had then been twenty-four yeal"l. Theae things ap-
peared philosophically strange to me, ror the following reuona:-
" Fil"lt: Tho11e who, from bleeding or from any other cause, reach a
atate of •ywcope, or the ordinary fainting condition, think not at all, or are
unable to remember any mental action. When they recover, it appean
either that the miod was sn.epended, or they were unable to reoollo!Ct itt
operation.e. There are those who believe on either aide of this qneation.
Some contend for suspension; othel"l deny it, but aay we never can recall
thoughtt formed while the mind il in that state, for reuona not yet
undeniOod.
"Secondly: Thoae who, in approaching death, reach the first atate ol
i~~~eneibility, and recover from it, are unconscious of any mental actiflty.
and have no thoughts which they can recall.
"Thirdly: If thia ia 110, why, then, should those who had travelled far.
ther into the land of death, and had sunk deeper into the condition of
Oodily ina4'tion, when reco,·ered, be conscious nf mental action. aod
remember thoughts more vivid than ever had Hashed acroea their aoul1
!D the health of boyhood, under a vernal sun, and on a plain of ftoweraf
"After thia, I felt IIOmewhRt inclined to watch, when it became my
. . _ yeu after year, to aland by the bed t'i :Ieath. That which I ••
Digitized by Coogle
104 8TAGES IN TRANCI:,
- not calculated to protract and doeren the alumbers of in6delh 1IQt
rather to dispose toward a degree of reetle&~~~ess; or, at leut, to further
-obeervation. [ knew that the circle of stupor, or inseuaibility, draWl!
aronnd life, and through which all either pa88, or seem to pa118, who go
nut of life, wu urged by BOme to prove that the mind conld not exist
ani- it be in connection with organized matter. For the same reuon,
others have contended that our BOals must sleep until the morning of the
reeurrection, when we ehall regain oar bodies. That which I witnessed
lOr my'!elf, paehed me (willing or unwilling) in a different direction.
Before I relate these facta. I must otTer BOmething which may 'llaetrste,
to a certain extent, the thought& toward which they pointed.
"If we were It> stand on the edge of a very deep ditch or golf, on the
diatant verge of which a curtain hangs which obstruct& the view, we
might feel a wish to know what iA beyond it, or whether there ia any
light in that uuaeen land. Suppose we were to let down a ladder, pro-
tracted greatly in ita length, and u)t a bold adventurer to descend and
make discoveries. He goes to the bottom, Blld then returua, telling 111
that there he could see nothing-that all wu total darkneu. We might
very naturally infer the absence of light there; but if we concluded that
hia powers of vision had been annihilated, or that there could surely be
no light in the land beyond the curtain, because, to reach that land, a
v~ dark ravine must be crossed, it would have been weak re&I!Oning;
10 much so, that, if it contented ns, we mnst be euily satisfied. It gave
me pain to notice many-nay, many physiciantt-who on these very
premilles, or on 110metbing equally weak, were quieting themselves in the
deduction that the soul sees no more after death. Suppose thia adven-
turer deecends again, and then tUC~ the other Bide, so near the top that
he can reach the curtain and slightly lift it. When be returns, he tella 11.1
that bia vision had been suspended totally 88 before, but that be Wt'Dt
nearer the distant land, and it was revived again; that, 88 the curtain
waa lifted, he saw brighter light than he had ever aeon before. We
would aay to him: •A certain distauce does suspend; but inaction ia not
lou of sight: only travel on further, and you will see again.' We can
!!nderetand thllt any one might go to the bottnm of that ra>ine a thonaand
•Jmea; he might remain there for days, and, if be went no further, ha
could teU, on biB return, nothiug of the unseen regiona.
"Something like this was illustrated by the fact& noted during many
.,..,., employment in the medical profeasion. A f~w 011881 must be
la&ea Ill examples fr:,m the liot.
"I was called to see 11 female, who departed under an influence wbkh
CIUllO! the pntient to faint aguiu atd ag11in, more and still more profotmdly,
tmtil life is <'Xtinct For the inf• ngati..u of physicians, I mention, it waa
nteriue hemnrrhage from m-.·purahly-attnched placenta. When recoY•
rred from the fir•t condition of oyncnpt•, ohe appt•ured as uuconecioWI, >I' •
•elltitutc of activity of •pirit, 1\8 otht•l'!l usually do. Shu Mnk again aJICI
-..ivf'll: it was still th" 1.1\Jne. ShP f:•iutetl more prol;•llllflly atill; aucl
Digitized by Coogle
A!f80DOTU. 101
when a""ake again, abe appeared ae others usnally io who hue DC
.boughta which they can recall. At length abe appeared entirely goae.
It did eeem aa though the struggle was forever past. Ht~r weeping relao
llvea clasped their banda and exclaimed: •She is dead!' but, unexpeo&
edly, abe waked once more, and, glancing her eyes on one who aa& n_.
exclaimed: •Oh, Sarah, I was at an entirely new place!' and then 8IUik
Co remain inaenaible to the things of th6 place we rive in.
" Why abe, like others in fainting, should have no thongbta which lhe
ooald recall, when no& eo near death ae abe afterward was when abe
bad thought, I could not clearly explain. Why her greatest activity of
mind appeared to happen during her nearest approach to the future
world, and while ao near that, from that stage, scarcely any ever return
who once roach it, seemed somewhat perplexing to me. I remembered
tbat in the case recorded by Dr. Ruah, where the man rewvered who
wa&, to all appearance, entirely dead, his activity of mind was unueual.
He thought he heard and eaw things unutterable. He did no& know
whether be was altog~>ther dead or not. St. Paul eaya be was in a COD•
dition eo near to death, that be could not tell whether be was out of the
body or not, but that he beard things unutterable. I remembered that
Tennant, of New Jersey, and his frienda, could not decide whether or no&
be bad been out of the body; but be appeared to be eo aome daye, and
&bought hia diecoveries .....uerabk. The man who cull bia finger and
f'ainta, recovering speedily, baa no tbougbta, or remembers none: he doea
not approach the distant edge of the ra'rine. Tb- l'acta appeared to
me poorly calc1Jated to advance the philoaophical importance of one
who baa discovered from sleep, or from syncope, that there is no other
existence, because this is all which we have aeen. They appeared to me
rather poorly calculated to promote tbe tranquility of one -king the
comforta of atheism. For my own part, I never did de~~ire the conaola-
tiona of everlaating nothingneaa; I never could covet a plunge beneath
the black wave of eternal forgetfnlneaa, and cannot eay that theee obaer-
vationa, in and of themaelvea, gave me pain; but it waa evident that
thoiii&Dda of the ecieutific were influenced by the weight of a small pt~o­
ble to adopt a creed-provided that creed contradkted Holy Writ. I
bad read aud heard too much of man's depravity, and of his love for dark·
Dell, not to see that it militated against my eyatem of deism, if it abould
appear that the otherwise leamod should neglect to observe, or il
obeervant, should be aotiefied with the most snperficial view, and, eeiaill(l
aome shallow and queationable l'acta, build hastily upon them a fabrio
lOr ewrnity.
" In tho caaee of t11oae who, recover:og from yellow fever, thought
daey bad enjoyed intercourse with the world of apirite, they wera indi-
riduala who bad appeared to be dead.
•Tl:e following fact took place in recent daya. Similar -~
laapreaeed me duriag yean of oh~Wrvotion. In the eity of St. Louis, 1
"-'ale cleperted, who had a rich portion of thr COIJ1forl• of CbriatiaQi~
o;gitizedbyGoogle~
""
106 £NECDOTZL
It waa after some &ind of spasm, that wu strong enougil to !Ia,.J beet
the death.atroggle, that she aaid-in a whiaper, being unable to epealr
aloud-to her young pastor: 'I bad a eight of home, and I aaw my
SaYiourl'
"Tbere were othel'll, who, after wading as far as that which aeewed to
be the middle of the ri,·er, and, retuming, thought they had aeen a d!f
lerent world, atul that they had au antepUllt of hell. But these ~ we
paaa over, and look at fiiCta which poiut ~along till' 88me road we ha1'e
been tra•·elling.
" [ Willi surpri~ed to find that the coll<lition of mind in the case of th.-
wbo were dyiu~. nnd of those !Nho only thoug/U themselves dyiug. dif.
lered very widely. I had supposed that the joy or the grief of death
originated from tho £
·111cy of the patient. (one supposing himself very near
to great happine.., amltho other expecting speedy sullcring,) and resulted
in pleasuro or appr.,hension. My di•covcries seemed to overturn thia
theory. Why •ltonl<l not the profes:10r of religion who believes himAelf
dying, when he really is not, rejoice as readily "" when he;, departing
if his joy is the otlspring of expectatiun T Why should not the alarm of
the ou:ofti·r, who heliev<'s hims<>lf dying and is not, be as uniform and u
deci•ive na when he is in the river, if it comes of fancied evil or cow•
ardly terror• T The same questions I asked myself again and again. I
have no douht that there is some strange reason conuected with our nat-
oral disr..Ii•h for truth, which cause• ao mnny physicians, after 11eeing such
meta •o often, n~ver to ob,..,rve them. During twenty years of observa-
tion, I fimnd the state of the soul belonging to the dying was, uniformly
and matedally. uulike tbat of those who only supposed themseh·es depart-
ing. This is best made plain by noting caBes which occurred.
"1. There wn• a 1111111 who believed himself com·erted, and his friendt,
judging from his wulk, hoped with him. He was seized with disease,
1nd believed himself within a few paces of the gate of futurity. He felt
no joy; his mimi wn• dark, ami his soul clouded. Hi• exercises were
painful, and the opposite of every enjoyment. He was not dying. He
reco,·ert-..1. lie had rwt hcen in the dcath-stn•am. After thia be wu
taken again. lie belit•ve<l him«•If Jyiu:;, and he was not tni.!taken. All
,.... pe'lce, serenity, hopo, triumph.
"2. There WIL!I a man who mocked at holy things. He became
aeriuuoly disr"'"ed, and SUJ'[""'ed himself sinking into the death-slumber.
He was not fric:htrru·d. His fnrtitude and co;nposure were bia pride,
and the• lu>:l't of hi• frit•nd<. The owdnuntt·d tiruuu·•• with which be
could enter futurity was •pnk<'n of exnltin;!ly. It was a mistake. He
wu not in the conditi•m of dis"'•luriun. His •oul nc,·er h.td been on the
ltne b-otween two worlds. After thi• he wu taken ill again. He su,.
po-i, IL8 before, that lie W :L• enh•ring the next Slate, and he real!,
raa; but his 11oul 8t!f'me<l to f,..,[ u ditlereut atm•,.plll'rtJ. Th., horrors •Jf
~ f(:PUt•e huve bN•n oflt.'ll d•·•crihc•d. au.l un• nfit.'ll <Pf'll. l n,...J ...,.
Digitized bvGoogle
·
--
· CASE OJ' JLLUST&.tTJOif JO'i
IIIICLMrtor to picture such a departure here. The on!y difficw;y iu whic!a
I was thrown by such cases was, •Why was he not thus agonized whetl
he thought himself departing f Can it be possible that we can etand 10
precisely on the dividing line, that the gale from both this and the coming
world may blow nvon our cheek f Can we have a taste of the exorci-
o( the next territory before.we enter it 1' When I attempted to account
{or this o>n the simple ground of bravery ancl cowardice, I waa.met by
the two following facta:-
" Fi111t, I have known those I.the t'U8t! are not unfrequent) who were
brave, who bad stood unflinching in battle'9 whirlpool. They bad
resolved never to disgrace their system of unbe.ief by a trembling death.
They had called to Christians in the tone of resolve, 98ying: •I can die
u coolly 118 you cau.' I bad seen those die from whom entire firmn-
might fairly be expected. I hnd heard groans, even if the teeth were
clenched for fear of complnint, such aa I never wish to hear again; and I
nod looked into countenances, puch as I hope never to sec again.
"Again, I had seen cowards die. I had seen those depart who were
oaturally timid, who expected themselvCII to meet death with fright
and alarm. I had heard such, as it were, sing before Jordan was half
forded. I had seen faces where, pallid as they were, I beheld more
celestial triumph than I bad ever witneP9Cd anywhere else. In that voice
there was a aweetne811, and in tbnt eye there w88 a glory, which I never
c:onld have fancied in the death-spasms, if I had not been near.
"The condition of the soul, when the death-stream is entered, 11 no\
the same with that which it becomes (oftentimes) when it is almCMJt
paaa&J. The brave man who steps upon the ladder aci'OII8 the darlr
ravine, with eye undnunted and haughty spirit, changes fearfully, in manJ
cues, when he comes near enough to the curtain to lift it. The Christian
who goes down the ladder, pale and diaconaolate, oftentimes starts witb
exulmtion, and tries to bu111t into a song when ahnost acro88.
"Cue or tLLUSTRATtoN.-A revolutionary officer, wounded at the
battle of Germantown, WBS praised for hie patriotism. Tht> war ended;
but he continned still to fight, in a different way, under the banner of
one whom he called the Captuin of his salvation. The applause of me11
never made him too proud to talk of the Man of Calvary. The harry of
life's <Iriving pur~~uita could not consume all his time, or make him forget
to kneel by the aide of his consort, in t!:Je circle of hie children, lllld
IUlticipnte a hoppy meeting in a more cptiet clime.
"To abbreviate this hiotory, his life waa such that those who knew
llim believed, if any one ever did die happily. thia man would be one
o( that cl888. I anw him when the time arrived. He aaid to th019
around him: • I 11m not 118 happy BS I could wish, or as I had expected.
l CIIUDJt say that I distmst my Savimtr, for I know in whom I have be-
liMed; but I have not that pleusing readinete to depart which I bad
~ked for ' This diatreiN!ed his relnthee boyon4 t'Xp.-iou, H~
Digitized by Coogle
OYlN'a FAHOIB&
CrieD» were greatly J:lllined, fur they had looked fur triumph. Hil ..
parture was \'ery slow, and atill hie language was: ' l have no exhilara
tioo and delightful rendioeu in my travel.' The weeping circle preuecl
IIJ'Ow.d him. Another hour paased. Hia banda and his feet became
entirely cold. The feeliug of heart remained the aame. Anoth"r
boor passes, and his vision bas grown dim, but the state of bia aoul ia
unchanged. His daughter aeemcd u though her body could not 101W.
her anguish of spirit, if her father should crosa the valley before tiM
cloud passed from his sun. She (before bia bearing vaniahed) made 1111
agreement with him, that, at any stage 88 be travelled on, if be had •
discovery of aJvaucing glory, or a foretaste of bea,·enly delight, be
•hnuld give her a certain token with his hand. Hie banda be could still
move, cold as they were. She ant holding his hand, boor after bour. ID
addition to his sight, his hearing at length failed. After a time he ap
peared almn•t unconsciouo of anything, and the obstructed breathing
peculiar to death was advanced near its termination, when be gave the
.oken to his pale but now joyouo d•mghter, and the expresaive flub of
exultation waa seen to spread itself through the otilfeniug muscles of hit
face. When his child asked him to give a signal if he had arty ham
Pitft! of h.ea-cenlglig.~t, with the feelings and opinions I once owned, I
could have asked: 'Do you auppose that the increase of the death-chill
will add to his happineat 1 Are you to expect, that as hia eyeoigbt
leaves, and as his hearing becomes confused, and his breathing convulsed,
and 88 be sinks into that cold, fainting, sickening condition of pallid
dP.ath, that his exultation ia to commence f'
"It did then commence. Then is the time when many, who enter tile
dark valley cheerle;;s, begin to see something that transports; but aome
.,., too low to tell of it, Rnd their friends think they departed under •
cloud, when they really did not. It is at thio otage of the journey that
the enemy of God, who started with look of defi!lllce and worda of pride,
r..ema to meet with that which alters his viewa and expectations; bot be
cannot tell it, for his tongue can no longer move.
" Those who im1uire after and rend the death of the wife of the eel
ebratc!d John 1\ewton, will find a very plain and very interesting in-
•tance. where the S:n·iour se<'med to mt>et with a •roiling countenance
bia dying sen-ant, when she had a•h·anced too far to call back to her sor-
rowful friends, and tell them of the pleasing news.
" My attention was awakt>ned very much hy observing the tlgi., fa.
tiea of the servants of this world, differing with such cbaracteriatie
lin!ularity from the fancies of the departing Christian. It ia no uncoiDo
JDOD thing for those who die, to beli.,ve they toce, or bear, or feel, !hal
which appears only fHilC)' to by-otJultlera. Their friends belie.-e that it II
the o,..ertumin;; n( th<>ir int••ll••ct. Tnm not about tn <'n!cr into the di.
aOMion of tho qn1-~tion, wlw:lter it i", ur i~ nut, a)waya fancy. Some
JtU"t..utC! it to 11ure th:lll fa t , ~·-. : lwt it, 1~11)!1\:h a~, in nlBUJ inAhliH.'t..t. tbl
Digitized by GoogIe
'l'£8T Of DEA'l'H. :roo
IDiDd it deranged while ita habitation is falling into ruU.. around it, and
inasmuch • it is the common belief that it is only imagination of which
I am writing, we will look at it under the name of fancy.
" The fanciful views of the dying servants of sin, and the deYoted
mends of Christ, were llra•gely different, aa far aa my observation
extended. One who had been an entire sensualist and a mocker at reo
ligion, while dying, appeared in his aeu8e8 in all but one thing. 'Talr.e
that black man from the room,' said be. He waa IUI8wered that there
W88 none in the roum. He replied: ' There be il, standing near the
window. His presence is very irksome to me-take him out.' After a
time, again and again, his r.all waa: •Will no oue remove him 1 There
he ia-.urely 10me oue will take him away!'
" I was mentioning to another physician my aurprise that he Bbonld
bave been so much distreaaed if there bad beeu many blacks in the room,
fi>r he had been waited on by thero, day and night, for many years; also
that the miod had not been diseaaed in some other reepect: when be
told me the names of two others (his patienta)-men of aimilar liv-
who were tormented with the same fancy, and in the same way, while
~~ .
" A young female, who called the Man of Calvary her greatest friend,
waa, when dying, in her senses, in all but one particular. • Mother,' abe
would say, pointing in a certain direction, •do you see those beautiful
creaturee ?' Hor mother would llDBWer: 'No, there is no one there, my
dear.' She would reply: • Well. that is strange. 1 never saw auch
countenances and ancb attire. My f!!Ye never rested on anything so
!ovely.' Oh, saya one, this is all imaginati011, and the ROtiOfle of a llritad
w.U..pri11g; wherefore tell of itf My answer is, that I am not about to
cliapute or to deny that it is fancy; but the fancies differ in features and
in texture. Some in their derangement call out: ' Catch me, I am sink
ing-bold me, I am falling.' Others say: ' Do you hear that music ? 0,
were ever netee so celestial!' This kind of notes, and theee claaaea of
faaeka, belonged to different claaaes of individuals; and tc4o tluy tctre,
waa the item which attracted my wonder. Such things are noticed by
few, and remembered by almost none; but I am inclined to believe that,
if notes were kept of 111ch cases, volumes of interest might be formed.
"My laat remark here, reader, is, that we neceaaarily apeak somewblll
Ill the dark of such matters; but yon and I will know more shortly
Bclth of us will see and feel for ourselves, where we cannot be mietalr.en,
a &be course of a very !Lw monthl or years.''
(• ca- lllld Care of ID4dellt7, ' bJ Jle'r. Da'lld II.._Amatcu 'l'na
8oale&J. Papa 1164-478.I
10
~igitized by Coogle ..
CONVERSATION Vlt.
OPERATION OP lllEDICUf.H.
L\or. Here is a box of pills, sent me, th\s monung
by a neighbor, who was in last evening when my sor
entered, and having notic(ld a number of little black
spots on his face, said his blood was in a bad state. and
that these pills would purify it.
DoCToR. Frequently washing the face will remove
the black spots, or worms, as they are commonly called.
You have, no doubt, often noticed an oiiy matter on the
face ; the oil is made by minute glands lying under the
external skin ; these glands send out a tube to carry the
oil to the surface ; sometimes dust will collect oq the
orifice of the tube, and form the black spots your neigh·
bor observed on George ; the oil thus prevented egress,
becomes hardened, and, when squeezed out, resembles a
worm from the shape of the tube.
J.Anv. What is the use of this oil?
DocTOR. To grease or lubricate the external skin, so
ns to prevent irritation either from atmospheric causes,
or the motion of the muscles under it. To return to the
pills, can you tell me of any mode Wwhich they could
gain access t.:> the hlood, to effect such an important
object as purifying it 1
LADY. I have always considered that medicines oper·
ated by changing the nature of the blood ; but I now
see that they caunot approach it; to do so requires 1
•
/
Digitized by Coogle
SALT PEACRBS, 111
passage through the lacteals, mesenteric glands, and
thora<~Lc duct; and you have informed me that even the
pyloric orifice of the stomach will not allow nny~hing to
pass it, except properly-prepared chyme.
DocToR. Allowing, for a moment, the pills entered
lhc blood, what would ensue 1
LADY. They would be instantly taken out of tho cir·
culation either by the lungs or kidneys, which are ex~re­
ting glands, acting, I suppose, as constables to -emove
everything offending and unnecessary•
.Doc·roR. There is a complete system of guards sta•
tioned in our bodies, to prevent the entrance of improper
substances, beginning with the warnings of taste; but
unhealthy agents, by presenting themselves too fre-
quently, will at last accustom the sentinels to their ap-
pearance, and can then enter with impunity, and without
danger of being ejected by the excretory organs.
This fact may sometimes be witnessed in the vegeta-
ble kingdom. The late Dr. Mitchell, of this city, had
once sent to him a basket of saline-tasting peaches
Around the base of the tree upon which they grew, &
quantity of brine had been thrown. The spongioles or
leech-suckers at the roots, at first, refused the salty mat·
ter Rdmittance, but, their excitability (irritability) being
altered by continued contact, at last sucked them up,
t.nd thus a strange phenomenon was the result.
Alcohol has produced the same effect on the human
eystem. A surgeon mentions a case of setting fire to
the blood of a confirmed drunkard, which he had just
drawn, its strong odor tempting the experiment.
L.-\l'Y. That drunkard was not much remo\ ed. J
1hould think, from a state of spontaneous combustion.
Docroa. Probabi.Y not; saturating the system wit•
Digitized by Coogle
12 SPONTANEOUS COMBUS'l'tOa.
alcohol is perhaps one of the first steps in :hat proeeu
Bl)ne is composed of a mixture of phosphoric acid and
lime (plwsphate of lime); as an acid is the union of a base
with a certain amount of oxygen, phosphoric acid is made
of phosphorus and oxygen. When the chemist wishes to
exhibit intense combustion to his audience, he throws a
piece of phosphorus into a jar of oxygen gas, and pro-
duces a blaze rivalling that of the sun. In a healthy
state of the system, the life power controls all the ele·
ments, and, as shown in the vegetable kingdom, only
allows them to unite in a manner that subserves its own
uurposes ; but when lowered and debilitated by excess·
ive stimulus, the power becomes weakened, and finally
lost in death ; the elements then obey their natural
llffinities, and a virulent internal combustion ensues.
LADY. The drunkard, in a double sense, then, is a
self-moving porter-house. Is it not very strange, that,
with all the clear and accurate information known rela·
tive to the organs and their functions, such profound
ignorance on the subject of the operation of medicine
should exist 1
DoCToR. You have -JUOted, almost verbatim, the com•
mon jargon of the day; it is used by those noted for
vague and confused nc>'ions on physiology. I do not
think any man, who cannot give the rationale of the
medicine he prescribes, should be trusted to practice.
So far from being dark and in any way incomprehen
Jible, it is easily explained, and the effects of medicine
capable oi being predicted with almost mathematical
certainty.
The study of the different organs in the system, after
the lift power has rleparted, is called Anatomy. Whea
&Ymg and proper agents stimulate irritability, so as to
........._
Digitized by Google
OO.tSEilVATIV& POW&& 111
produce a healthy action of these organ!, the study i1
ealled Physiology When improper agents or stimur
act on irritability, an alteration of the vilal powers en·
lues, with a corresponding alteration of function, disease
results, and its study is called Pathology. In the latter
c-.ase, how do you imagine the system can become right
again 1
LADY. Only, 1 should think, by the direct interpositior.
"f the Almighty 1
DocToR. After the Croton aqueduct was finished, tho
pipes laid down, and the whole in successful operation,
do you suppose anything more was required 1
LADY. Yes, a company of superintendents and labor·
-,rs, to constantly inspect every part with th«> greatest
tare, and instantly repair whatever breaks in the line, or
other damages might occur. The water-works would
not even be safe without such a precaution.
DocToR. The life power has an exactly similar re-
serve-a distinct anci powerful conservative principle,
c·alled by the older physicians, who were we!J llCquaint-
c!d with it, the Vis Medicatrix Natura. Whenever a
part is injured, it is the office of this principle to come
forward and repair it ; so very intelligent appears its
operation, that some have attributed the effects to a
special interference of the Creator, and others supposed
t was the rational soul.
LADY. The two seeds cited in your article on the
Vegetable Kingdom, to show the difference between the
forces of life and those of chemistry. brought instant
conviction to my mind, and the clear conceptions I then
acquired have proved serviceable since in pursuin~ this
subject. Can you not illustrate the conservati?~ 'riO
tiple in ~ similar manner?
to•
Digitized by Coogle
114 DO&MOUSL
l>?cTOa. Have ycu ever re8.d the natural history uf
the dormouse 1
!.AnY. It is one of the hybernating or winter-sleepo
mg animals; in summer it is very lively and frolic-
some; as autumn approaches, it becomes very fat; and
when cold weather sets in, retires to a concealed nook
to sleep out the winter, but comes forth in the spring
almost fteshless. While in the hybernating state, its
breathing is very slow, and its temperature the same as
that of the surrounding atmosphere.
Do«.-"Ton. If a dormouse is taken from its sheltered
hole, in the midst of winter, and placed in a receiver
surrounded with a freezing mixture, some very curioue
phenomena will be evolved. As the cold increases
and the little portion it had is becoming absorbed, its
breathing will be proportionally slower, and the heart
pulsate more feebly; this state of things continues-tho
animal constantly failing-until a point is reached when,
remaining another moment would destroy life. At this
very point an unseen power presents its workings, a
hidden spring is touched, and an evident change takes
place with extreme rapidity ; the pulse becomes fuller
and faster; a warmth diffuses itself over the surface;
the eyes brighten and limbs contract; finally, in less
than three minutes, the little animal is as hot, and his
pulse as rapid, as in the midst of summer. Take the
dormouse now out of the receiver, and expose him to
the open air, and his torpidity gradually returns; it ia
1hen best to restore him to his former nook. The con-
ferYativc power that preserved the dormouse from
Ieath, we name the Y1s M£oJcATRIX NATuas.
LADY How is this r'lwer developed in the hllmll»
tot\y 1
Digitized by Coogle
TRUE PHYSlOUI'f. IU
DoCToR. Let us suppose a combination of peculiu
circumstances, as the _
poisonous air of a manh (naard
rmasmata), to net on our excitability, an injurious influ·
ence is immediately -exerted upon the system; it sinks
=!llickly, a chill is felt, and this chill increases, lowering
and depressing us, till a point is gained (as in the dor-
mouse experiment), from which we cannot descend with
life; at this point the conservative power awakes ; it acta
on the other powers, more especially on the brain; the
nervous secretion becomes altered and radiated to every
part; a change is induced, fever ensues, and with it a
long 1•ain of other symptoms which finally terminate
in pwluse perspiration, and a restoriition to health.
LADY. Then fever, and the symptoms which are
commonly considered the disease itself, are nothing
more than signals of battle going on within for the pur•
pose of liberating us from injurious influences. If such
be the case, why docs the physician interfere in the mat-
ter at all, and of what use are doctors 1
DocToR. The true physician remains a spectator, or
rather general, watching the battle's progress with a
careful eye ; knowing each separate stage and crisis,
and how far nature can be trusted, he often does nothing
more than to clear the battle-field, (remove injurious in·
ftuences,} and allow her to combat alone.
LADY. Suppose it becomes necessary for him to
interfere 1
DoCTOR. If nature cannot cope successfutly with the
•exiPting form of disease, it is his business to substitute
ano~her form which she can conquer. It is n pathologi
!!al law that there can be but one disease at a time in
.be system; and, acting 011 that law, he brings some
nfluence stronger than tht: original cne to bear on e~
Digitized by Coogle
116 ARSENIC.
eitability ; in other words, he must produce a different __
alteration of the vital powers, which he is certain the
oonservative principle can rectify.
LADY. If it is stronger than the original one, why
should it not be still worse for the vis medicatrix to
combat 1
DoCTOR. Each thing produces an influence peculiar
to itself; and our ideas of strength are only compara•
tive. What will powerfully depress excitability may
give the ~is medicatrix little effort to overcome, and
vice versa.
There is a class of bodies, which, properly pr~
scribed, produce a decided and powerful effect on exci-
tability ; an effect which experience has taught us it is
always in the power of the vis medicatrix to subaue,
and restore the system when laboring under their influ-
ence to health. Such are the medicines, as opium, cam-
phor, arsenic, and quinine.
LADY. Is arsenic a medicine 1
DocTOR. A very useful one. You must not suppose
that its only use was to make stearine candles and Ger·
man silver spoC'ns. Nothing in nature was ever created
for murderous purposes ; it is man who perverts them.
LADY. After the effect is produced on excitability h)
the medicine, the original malady disappears ; the phy·
sician is then treating sickness he has himself induced,
and curing diseases of his own infliction.
DocTOR. Exactly so ; and this shows you what care
and judgment should be exercised in selecting the right
medicine. Cases occur in which, out of a list of twent)
purgatives, one alone is suited to the existing nature of
.he complaint.
I.ADY. But, doctor, how ean you disc~>ver aJl theH
Digitized by Coogle
CASE OP DIBEAS&.
teparate modifications of disease ; how can you poui
bly tell what is going on within the system 1
DoCToa. In the same manner as we discover the ex·
istence of a life principle and its properties-that is, by
observing the phenomena they exhibit.
You will remember that every part of the body has a
separate office to fulfil, that there are two lives, an ani·
mal and vegetable, in action, developing distinct series _
of phenomena, and that the study of all the functions in
health is physiology.
When pernicious influences act, and the whole train
becomes disordered, the physician, previously well ac
quainted with the results produced by healthy actions
observes the changed appearances disease presents to
hi& view, and from these deduces his opinion relative to
the amount of injury, and aets accordingly.
LADY. Will you be kind enough to apply this to a
particular case 1
DocToa. I was sent for, yesterday, to see a man, who
I was told had been ill for two or three days. Oo
entering the room, and observing his countenance
(often a sufficient index by itself to the experienced), its
wild and haggard aspect led me to look for abdominal
disease.
Sitting down by his bed, I inquired the history of the
case, and then proceeded (without his suspecting it) to
at regular examination.
The functions of animal life are sensation, thought,
and locomotion. Everything had acquired a bitter
taste to him, and noise of any kind was agonizing ; hie
mina was wandering ; and, to conclude with anima.
bfe, he was feeble as a child.
Turning to the vegetable svstem. 1 found respiratioa
o;gitizedbyGoogle Q
118 IIY'MPTOM8.
more frequent than in health, but perfeetly fitll, and n•J
pain about the chest; the pulse fast and rather weak.
but steady; this absolved the heart and lungs. Upon
examining the tongue, I found it covered with a thick
yellowish-brown fur, characterizing trouble in the. liver~
and as the lining membrane for nostrils, mouth, stomach,
liver-tube, etc., is one continuous sheet, disease of op&
.part would soon extend along the whole surface by
sympathy, and, reaching the tongue, paint on .ts surface
the cause of trouble for the information of the phy-
sician; the skin had a yellowish tinge, was at times cold
and moist, and at others hot and dry ; the howels and
liver, more especially the stomach, were very sensitive
10 pressure, and vomiting came on every ·ten or fifteen
minutes, at which times he ejected a greenish watery
tluid, etc., etc.
The day of his attack, he had been. eating a very
I early dinner, with some unripe fruit as dessert, and
.nen quickly returned to work (he was a stone-cutter)
'oeneath a hot sun; soon getting sick, he went home
Nhere an old woman, a great doctress of the neigh·
oorhood, had been summoned to attend him; she called
his disease janders, and every hour or two, d_uring the
day, poured down his stomach strong tansy tea.
I concluded that his unwholesome dinner had been
imperfectly digested, and when the chyme wished to
pass the pyloric orifice, the sentinel tightly contracted
his muscular ring, and refused admittance by blocking
up the passage. The hot sun, acting on the brain,
altered t~e nervous secretion, a share of which, being
radiated to the stomach, made matters worse ; and the
rtomach, finding itself utterly incapable, in such cir·
~mm1tances, of re-digestin~ the food, cast it offentirely b~
Digitized by Coogle
VIii MEDICA'l'IUX NATUBA!:. lJA
tllf Jfllophag·1s; the hilt- that was preparec. <-'act on the
chyme being poured out about the time it ought to bt:
there, and finding nothing to act on, altered the excita
b1lity of the sentinel at the pyloric orifice, and gained
admission into the stomach, from whence it was imm&
riiatcly thrown out, sharing the fate of the food. Tc
crown all, the tansy tea, by producing irritation, kept
fp the morbid action, involving all the parts connected
with the lining membrane, as the liver, etc.
I caused him to be removed into a cool and quiet
room; ha.d his feet bathed with mustard and warm
water, to assist the action of a mu~tard plaster on his
1tomach ; and then caused a strong injection to be ad-
.ninistered, leaving a powde'r to be taken at a certain
.ime afterward. The vomiting ceased, the bowels
.noved, n terrible headache (which I forgot to mention
:~l my notice of sensation) disappeared, etc., etc., and
the next morning found him free from all pain, but
I'CJY \\'eak. 1'ltis is called the active plan of treat-
.'l.mt.
Yerv frequently, a mere removal of injurious inftu-
encet:t, l•y allowing the vis medicatrix free scope, will be
suffici,~.1t to cure. This is called the expectant plan of
t7·eatm~"lt.
LAo\·. Nature, after all, has to fight her own battles,
the physician generally d•:ng nothing, except, by re·
moving injurious influences, to show fair play ; the ut-
;nost he can perform is to substitute one morbific cause
for another. If it were not for the vis mcdicatrix, there
would be no science of medicine-we should all die off
18 soon as injured.
DoCToR. I am glad that you understand so well
"bat I have been endeavoring to teach; you have no1t
,
Digitized by Coogle
WATER ct:llL
learnec.l enough of the principles of mt.dicine to purtoe
the study as much as you choose. .
LADY•.Does fascination act by inducing a t.ew W...
case?
DocToa. Most assuredly ; it forms no exception to
the mode of operation of the others, from all of which il
differs, however, by giving the vis medicatrix less effort
to displace its effects. I suppose this fact will make no •
advice needed with regard to fascinating healthy per·
sons, as direct disease is thereby induced.
LADY. Why did I not get well directly after the first
fascination 1
DocToR. From the influe~ce of habit, and the same
:auses still acting that produced your disease in the first
instance. Directly after the effect of each operation
was over, and before the disease again seized upon you,
the Rystem had time to gain strength ; as the intervals
increased, more strength was acquired, until, at length,
your frame was strong enough to resist the injurious
influence, and then your recovery was complete.
LADY. In what manner does the water cure operate f
A friend of mine was very anxious that I should try it;
he thought every case of chronic disease in the conti·
nent of Europe would soon be cured at Graefenberg.
DocTOR. I have very little doubt but that it would
have killed you. You can no more expect one particu-
lar medicine, or plan of treatment, to cure all diseases,
than to find one book which would suit all readers ; or
one coat capable of fitting all men. Wherever life is
present, variety is certain to be found, as well in dis.
ease as in health. In certain cases, fasoination, as a
curative agent, is invaluable ; but, recommend it as 1
1uccedaneum, and it is certain to do much mischief.
Digitized by Coogle
BOM<EOPATRY, 121
Hydropathy, as a curative agent, acts exactly on the
dormouse principle; it depresses until the vis medicatriJ
rises to the rescue. The process you will observe.
has already been gone through with at the first time of
the attack; it says to nature, "You have failed in your
attempt, try again." In many chronic cases of long
.standing it is certainly a valuable remedy; that it is a
new discovery, or that it will supercede all other reme·
dies. are both ridiculous ideas.
LADY. I am aware, doctor, that you have attentively
examineJ homooopathy; and since such a golden oppor-
tunity prt.•sents itself for inquiry, I should be much
obliged if you would tell me what it really is worth ;
many ofmy friends think its cures are almost miraculous 1
DocTOR. Cases of medical treatment under such cir·
cumstances, stand in the same relation to truth as the
tricks of a juggler to the deductions of science ; suc.l-,
reports, in fact, have elicite<l the remark that" medictt'
facts are medical lies." '\\t hatever militates again11~
common sense anrl ex~"it.'lC"l cannot be received ar
evidence.
LADY. Their infinitessimal Jo,•P.s Jeao me to concJud~
that their object is to let m.tu.~e, j._ a.'I cases, take care
of herself. Much harm cannot ~e dctte except by
indu«'ing delay.
DocToR. That alone should cond.. 'llf\ ,be Whole mat·
ter, as no where are "delays so dangerou.·" "" b me<J.
cine, 'llife often turning on an hour of time. My stud~
of Hannehman has led me to consider him possesstt,
of remarkable talent, and that the whole system of ho
mooopathy is nothing more than a disguised recommenda·
tion of fascination. Do you remember how he tests the
1tren~th of hiCJ medicines!
l!
Digitized by Coogle
PASCI!IJATION
LAov. B~ the number of dilutions; t1e greater the
number, the more powerful the medicine.
DoCTOR. That simple fact should have led to the di•
covery of his meaning, the solution of his enigma. He
dir.,cts his medicines to be prepared by hand, and consi-
dCJs them increased in strength proportionally as the
hand is laid upon them: this is nothing more than a
practice, long known, of mesmerixing medicine for pa•
tients.
LADY. Still I should have thought that where 10
much was at stake, he would have given some intima-
l.ion of his secret more plainly than that ; that he would
l}ven in some cases direct them to fascinate.
DQcToa. He has done so: where nature alone will
.:ure, or the expectant plan will suffice, he directs the
minimum doses ; in more serious cases, you must, to use
his own words, " stroke the patient down with the palm
,f the hand till relief be obtained."
His object. in concealing his real sentiments, was
cloubtless to escape the ridicule of the age in which he
lived. If he possessed an acute sense of mirthfulness,
great must have been his merriment to have known that
glass factories, in many countries, were solely employed
blowing his little vials ; thousands of apothecaries en·
gaged in m:wufacturing medi:·ines to fill those vials;
machines inventiug to prepare nis triturations and dilu·
tions; and, finally, hosts of the sons of Esculapius,
CI(Uipped with whole pharmaceutical establishments iJJ
their coat pockets, visiting their patients, and wha, ever
and anon, were drawing forth the organc.n of him upon
whom they looked as more than mortal, to seek fresh
·nstructions regarding the best nathod of dispensins
eugar plums.
Digitized by Coogle
~01\fllfON !IAL'I 123
It is rarely that persons Will take pains to exarr.tne
mto any system of medicine ; the small amount of medi·
cal knowledge out of the pale of the profession, owing
most likely to the small amount within, has given an
idea that the whole subject is nothing more than a sys-
tem of guessing ; and those entertaining this view are
rather pleased with homreopathy, as being a practice in
which wrong guessing cannot produce much detriment.
Another source of injury to the science of medicine
has been various hypotheses started by men who were
not properly versed in the laws of life. During the
prevalence of a certain deadly pestilence in the West
!ndies, the blood was, in all cases in those affected, dark,
..l!most black. A physician, who had been bleeding a
1•ntient, found the dark blood, as soon as it gained the
· 1 '>WI, be<>ome of a bright healthy-looking red; and, upon
( mmining the matter, found the florid appearance Willi
o wmg to some table salt which had been accidentally l~ft
i 1 the bowl ; his sapient brain instantly conceived the
i lea that it was the loss of muriate of soda (common
• ilt) in the blood that caused the fever. This fancind
f,iscovery changed his whole plan of treatment, and his
hfter practice consisted in injecting solutions of salt
rnto the veins, and giving it by the stomach. His fellow
1•hysicians followed his example as soon as the matter
was published. The uniformly fatal termination of all
cases treated in this absurd manner at length obliged
the dor.tors to relinquish the practice ; but the hypothe-
li!l, like the bodies of ancient heroes, was accompanied
to the grave by thousands of victims slaughtered to ita
honor.
LADY. What is the meaning of transfusion of blood f
Docroa. It was discovered that where death wouJd
Digitized by Coogle
124
enaue from the loss of olood, taking a supply from the
vein• of another and directly introducing it into that of
the patient, vtould preserve life in many instances.
The French received it w th open arms, and were eager
to embrace the advantages it offered. Supposing the
aecret of perpetual youth was made known, old age
hastened to fill its veins with the blood ofJUVenescence.
Though the majority who tried the pllm fell victims to
i&a fatal influence, it still continueJ to be the enthusiasm
· of the day till a prince of the blood royal was added tet
the list of victims. The laws immediately made it a
penal offence, and it fell into disuse.
A knowledge of the laws of life would have prevented
• all this victimizing. as it would also correct many popu·
lar prejudices. You wished me, some time since, to
vaccinate your son George, because more than seven
years had elapsed since he had taken the cow-pox, and
I could not then explain the reason why I did not think
it wae necessary.
Our bodies are perpetually changing; they are not
tne same to-morrow as to-day. This fact, which they
could perceive but not explain, puzzled, the ancients:
"To be another, yet the same I" was the astonished ex-
clamation of an old philosopher. By the constant ab-
sorption and deposition of matter, it has been computed
that we undergo a total change every seven years ; and
persons informed of this, think the effect of vaccination
worn off, when every particle of matter that wae
present in the body at the time of the operation is de-
parted. The life pt inciple is entirely forgotten in thit
estimate; impressions made on it are indelible ; every
partiele of mntter it directs to be removed, is replaced
hv an exactly simi:nr particle; thus a depression in the
Digitized by Coogle
PJ.JESTS or N.&TUJ.L 121
•kin, or mark of any kind, often remains for life. When
perfectly vaccinated, the system is forever surely guard-
ed against the attacks of small-pox; but when an'
doubt exists relative to the former effect, it is well to
repeat the operation.
#you must not be surprised to find doctors ·often disa-
greeing with this explanation ; for there are as many sect1
in medicine as in theology. Many of them, perhaps a
majority, consider the human body a vast chemica! Ia•
boratory, imd scoff at the notion of a life power. Some
of these affirm, and others deny, the existence of an im-
mortal soul, by which last, when allowed to remain,
those who believe in it solve all the living problemt
:~hemistry cannot explain.
Since the days of Hippocrates, or rather his aneestol
Esculapius, there has always been a church of faithful
priests of nature, who closely observed her laws and
obeyed her dictates. One after another of these baa
added his quota to the general amount of information,
till, being fully prepared for generalizing, the gre,JWJrin·
ciples of health and disease have been established, which
no doubt will continue in force till this mortal puts on
immortality. These true physicians are known under
the name of VITALISTS, or observers of life.
Our opponents, when they talk of uncertainty and
c-..onfusion, but proclaim the chaos existing in their owa
minds, on which the spirit of truth bad never mond •
eorreet disorder, and impart life and light.
u•
Digitized by Coogle
,..
CONVERSATION Vlh
PREVISION,
UoCToa. The patient. while under the inftuenr..e of
mscination, will, in some cases, often materially assist
the treatment by prescribin~ remedies for himself, his
instinctive faculties undergoing remarkable develop
ments.
This power has been named PREVISION; but I think it
is susceptible of a two-fold distinction-that which re
lates to the organism, and by perceiving " a series of
organic movements, consequent one upon the other,• and
thence foretelling results; and that which is probably thl3
communication of a superior being, in attendance upon
us, and whose revelations are made only for special
purposes.
We will name the first organic, and the second
reoealed, prevision.
LADY. This organic prevision seems to me nothing
more than a development of the vis medicatrix nature.
DocToa. It certainly resembles it in many particu·
Iars, and the fact of its being possessed by the lower
animals to a considerable extent favors your view.
Bruce tells us that the African Arabs secure them-
ae.vea from the mortal consequences attending the bite
of serpents, by chewing a particular root, and washing
themselves with an infusion of certain plants in water;
he gives a particular account of several of these plants,
tome of which seem only capr.ble of acting against tqe
Digitized by Coogle
CURATIVB INSTINCTS. 12"1
power of the serpent ; others, only against that of tht
scorpion; and a third sort, against both ; and aU wil
operate both as an antidote and preventive. Vargus
throws considerable light on the manner in which the
Arabs acquired the knowledge of the11e plants; he was
a gentleman residing at Santa Fe, (S. A.,) who was
a(;customed to venture into the open fields and seize the
largest and most venomous serpents, from whose bite
he was perfectly protected by drinking a small portion
of the juice of the quaco-withy, and inserting some in
punctures made in his hands, breast, and feet. Thfl
name of the plant is derived from the Indian term for
the serpent hawk, who was observed, before attacking
poisonous serpents, to suck its juice, which, when tried
for the same purpose by mankind, proved equally effi
cacious.
An old writer long since remarked that no fact ap-
peared better attested, in the history of human know·
ledge, than that of a proficiency in the art of practical
physic, fiu beyond the scope of their other attainments 1
forming a curious but unfailing trait in the character of
savages. Now, whether that proficiency was attained
b) observations made on the instincts of the lower
antmals, or the result of their own organic prevision in
a fascinated state, it is hard to discover; perhaps it was
compounded of both.
The apes of Abyssinia are reported to have, by trial•
un themselves, first exhibited to men the laxative pro-.
perties of the cassza fistula. A dog having had some
sheep's blood injected into his veins, was observed to
immediately oegin eating grass ; and this was consid·
erea by the transfusers ·sufficient evidence that the na·
ture of each animal resided in the blood, and that the
Digitized by Google ...
a
128 TOAD AND SPIDEll,
dog wou.:l in future partake of the qualities of the
1heep. A gross error ; the org.1nic prevision of the
dog warned him that to prcduce vomitiug was to ob-
tain relief from the pain caused by his cruel tormentors,
hence his conduct; for he is commonly observed, when
•ick, to eat a quantity of prickly grass, an expedien1
that seldom fails to answer the purposes of an emetic.
LADY. I was on'ce called, while in the country, to
witness something of this kind. It was a toad fighting
with a large spider; every time the toad was bitten, it
ran off, and, having eaten some plantain leaves, would
~eturn to the fight. A person present. while the frog
was trying to reach the plantain, covered it up ; he
swelled up immediately, and died in consequence.
I am aware that hogs, aft~r being kept for some time
without salt, refuse food, and greedily devour ashes or
cinders in great quantities. Some time ago, I met with
tlD anecdote of a gentleman who, when sick, never used
medicine; giving, as reason, the example of a monkey
in his possession, that, if ill, would abstain from food
a few days, when he was always sure to recover health
and spirits.
DocToR. But that the fascinated patients of the Egyp-
tian temples remembered their visions, I should have
alassed such cases in organic prevision : as an instance
of the latter faculty, I will quote a case from the report
of the commission of the Royal Academy of Medicine,
tnd vouched for by them.
" Pierre Cazot, twenty yean of age, a working batter, bom of aa
eJ•ileptic mother, bas been subject, from teo yean of age, to attackl al
epilepey, which have recurred five or aix times a week up to the time
when he entered the Hopital de Ia Ch"ritc, in the early part of the
month of August, 1827, He was at once magnetized by M. Foiaaac, wu
_.eel in tl!e magnetic llieef st the third llittin1. &Qd became eomnauabG
Digitized by Google
••
ID at tbe tenth, which took place on the 19th of Angu1t. It wu 011
dlllt day, at nine o'clock in the morning, that be announced, that on tbe
- day, at four o'clock in the afternoon, be should have an attack of
eptlepsy; but that it might be prevented, if be was magnetized a littl•
oef'ore that period. The verification of bia prediction was preferred-
eel, therefore, no precaution wBB taken to prevent the paroxysm; we
contented ouraelvee with observing him, without hia having any suspicion
that we were doing eo. At one o'clock. be WBB seized with a violent
headache ;-at three be wae obliged to go to bed,-and at four o'clock
preciaely the paroxysm attacked him, and IBBted about five minute..
Two days afterwards, Cazot being in somnambulism, M. Fouquier sud
denly thrust a pin, of an inch long, between the thumb and the forefin·
ger of the right band ; with the same pin, he also pierced the lobe of the
ear;-and the eyelids being separated, the white of the eye itself wu
repeatedly struck with the bead of the pin without OCCaAioning the
emal!Nt indication of aeneibility.
"The commioeion met at the Hopital de Ia Charite on the 24th of August,
at nine in the morning, in order to observe the experiments which M.
Fauquier, one of its members, proposed continuing upon this in.valid.
"At this aeance, M. Fouquier took hi• station about eix feet in front of
Cazot: be looked at him firmly-made use of no passes with the bands,-
observed the most perfect silence, and Cazot was B&leep in eight minutea.
At three difl'erent times, a bottle of ammonia wae held under his nose-
-be countenance became flushed-the breathing quickened, but he did
tot awaken. M. Fouql4ier thrust a pin an inch long into the fore-arm;
J\erwards, another pin was thn1at to the depth of two lines, obliquely
mder the cheat ;-a third WBB similarly inserted into the pit of the ato-
aacb; and a fourth WBB throat perpendicularly into the sole of the foot.
M. Gueraent pinched him in the fore-arm so severely 88 to leave a bruiae
IIBrk ;-and M. ltard leaned the· whole weight of his body upon hie
.high.
"We endeavored to tickle him by lightly puaing a little piece rA
paper under the noae, upon the lipe, upon the eyebrows, the eyelaeha.,
the neck, and the soles of the feet-but nothing could awaken him. We
then urged him with questiona. •How many more attacka will yoa
have f' • Doring a year.' • Do you know whether these attaoka will be
near to each other f' • No.' • Will you have one this month f' • I 1ball
have a fit on Monday the 27th, at twenty minutes before three o'clock.
'Wi.l it be a strong one 7' • It will not be half so strong Ill the lBBt.' • Oa
what otlwr d&:f will you have an attack T' After an expre~~~~ion of impe-
liienoe, be an•wered,-' A fortnight hence, that is to my, on the 7th ol
September.' ' At what hour f' 'At ten minutes before six in the morning.'
"The illn01111 of one of his children obliged Cazot to leave Ia Charitll
• that very day, the 24th of August. But it waa agreed that he lboald
l'ltllrl on Monday the 27th, early in tlut morning, in order that abe II
Digitized by Coogle
110 CASE Of CAZO'l'.
which be bad declared to be impending in the afternooa >f that day, •
twenty minutes before three, might be accurately observed
" The eteward, ljaving refused to take him in woen be presented him
eelf for admittance, Cazot repaired to the bouse of M. l'oi888C in order tc
complain of tbia refusal. M. Foi888c, as be afterwards told us; preferred
diesipating this attack by magnetism, to being a solitary witnese to the
occurrence,--and consequently we were unable to establish the exacti-
tude of this prevision. But it still remained for ua to observe the parox
,.m which be had announced for the 7th of September. M. Fauquier
having caused Cazot to re-enter the hospital on the 6th, nuder the pre-
lllxt of paying him some attentiona, which be could not pay out of that
eatabliahmeut, had him magnetized in the course of the day of the 6th
by M. Foiasac, who put him to sleep by the simple act of his will, and
by steadfastly looking at him. In this aleep, Cazot repeated, that the next
day he should bav" an attack at ten miRutea before six in the morning,
and that it might be prevented if be waa magnetized a little before. At
a signal agreed upon, and given by M. Fouquier, M. Foisaac, of wboee
presence Cazot waa ignorant, awakened him in the same way aa be bad
put him to aleep, by the sole act of his will, notwithstanding the qua.
tiona which were addressed to the somnambulist, and which had no
other object than to conceal from him the moment in which he ought to
waken.
" In order to be witnesses of this second attack, the commiasion met
on the 7th of September, at a quarter before six in the morning, in tiM
ward St. Michel, at Ia Cbaritll. There they were informed, that thct
evening before, at eight o'clock, Cazot had been seized with headache,
which had tormented him all night,-tbat this pain bad occaaioned the
eenaation of beating in hie bead, and that he bad had some darting sen..,
tiona in his ears. Ten mint&te1 before li:l: o'clock we witneased the Apileptio
attack, characterized by contraction and stiffness of the limbs,-by the
repeated and forcible toseing of the bead backwards,-by the convullive
closing of the eyelids,-by the retraction of the globe of the eye toward•
the roofof the orbit,-by eighs,-by acreams,-by insensibility to severe
pinching,-and by the biting of the tongue betwet>n the teeth. This eet
of eymptoma laated for about five minutes, during which, he bad two
remission• of some aeconde each, and then a painful relaxation of the
limbs, and aenee of general exhaustion.
''On the lOth of September, at ten o'clock at night, the commillllioa
met again at the house of M. ltard, in order to continue ita inquiriee
upon Cazot: the latter waa in the library, where conveNatinn had beea
carried on with him till hnlf.past eeven, at which time M. Foi88Bc, who
bad arrived since Cazot, and had waited in an ante·chamber separated
from the library by two cloeed doore, ant! a distance of twelve feet, begaa
to magnetize him. Three minutes afterward. Cazot aaid, I tlisk t4al
,,._ N liwl, for 1feel •1•elf OJ~tmcl allcl efl!nblltJ. At tlM
Digitized by Coogle
OASB OP 04ZOT. 13.
aplradoo of eight minutes he was completely uleep. He. wu agaJa
queetioued, aud asanred us, that iri three weeks from that day, that ia,
on the first ot Octobt-r he should have an epi.~ptic paroxysm at teQ
minutes before noon.
"h was tle•iruble to uosen·e with eqaal care, 88 on the 7th of Septelllo
ber, the epileptic attack which he bad predicted for the let of October.
With this view, the commission met together eo that day at balf·pul
eleven, at the bouse of M. Georges, manufacturer of bats, No. 17, RuA
dee Meuotriers, where Cazot lived and worked. We learned from M
Georgns, that be was a \'Cry regular workman, whose conduct W88 ex•
cellcnt,-and that he Wll8, both by tho simplicity of his mind, and by hit
moral principles, absolutely incapable of lending himself to any decep
tioo ; that he had had no attack of epilepsy since the one which the com·
mi!!Siou bad witnessed at Ia Cbarit6 ;-that not feeling himself well thiW
mnrnin!(, ho bad remained in his own chamher, ant! was not at work;-
th~t at ibis moment. theo·e Wll.'l with him an intelligPnt man, whose vera
city and di~~eretion might be relied upon; that this man bad not told him
he had predicted un attack for that day ;-that it appeared that since the
Ttb of September, M. Foissac had had some communication with Cazot,
but without permitting the inference that he hnd in any way recalled to
him his prediction, since, on the ·contrary, M. Foisoac sttncbed the bigbetl
importance to the circuoustuuce, that no ono should speak to the patient
on the subject of what he had announced. At five minutes before twelve
M. Georges went np into a room situated imrncdiutely under that occo
pied by Cuzot, nnd in oue minute Rfrerwar<l• he came to inform ua that
the attack hnd supervened. \Va hastily ran to the sixth story, that ia
MM. Gnersent, Thillaye, Marc, Gncneau de !\-fuo.y, Itard, nod the Re-
porter, where. on our arrival, the watch pointed 1\t onu minute to twelve
by the tnte time. Assembled around the bed of Cnzot, we distinguished
the epileptic paroxysm characterized by the f.ollowing symptoms: tetanic
etitTuess of the body and of the limbs-to§sing of the head, and occasion-
ally of the trunk ol the body backwards,-& c~nvul•ive retraction, aud
up-turuing of the eye, so that tho white of the eye only is visible,-
very remarkahle fullness of the face and neck,-contraction of the jawe,-
partial convulsive movements of the fibres of the mn•des of the right arm
and fi>nHlrm ;-soon afterwards so decided a tetanic attnck, that the trunk
nf the body was so raised as to form the segment of a circle, of which the
only ba9es were formed by the bead and the feet; which movementa
terminated by a sudden collapse. A few moments after this attnck, that
i1, after one minute of relaxation, a new paroxysm, similar to the preced·
in!( "'"'• took place; theo e WP.re ullerPd inarticulate Aouods-his respira
tiou very frequent nnd interrupted,-the larynx being rapidly and vio
lcntly raised ond depre88ed; and the pulse beating from 132 to 160 in r
minnie:-there W&ll no frothing at the mJttth, nor contraction of the
lhnloba to th11 inside l f rue paint tf tho hand. At the end of eix millntet
Digitized by Coogle
13'l 7A8£ OP OAZCT.
lhe paroxyem terminated by deep aigha, by relaxation or the limlM, -
opening of the eyelid.e.
" The invalid fixed an aatooiahed look upon the peraollll preaent, and
;.omplained of being painfully stitf, especially in the right arm.
" Although the cornmillsiou could not doubt the veritable action pro-
d~~eed by magnetism upon Cazot, even without hia knowledge, and at a
Cc!>rt.&io distwlce from him, yet they desired to acquire a new proof of thia
etate;-and as it bad beeu proved at the la11t l!{>ance, that M. Foiii88C had
bad some communication with him, and therefore might have told bim
that he had aunonuced an attack for the lat of October, the commiaaioa
were al80 desirous, while submitting Cazot to some new tria!.J, to lead M.
Foiii88C himself into error aa to the day on which hie epileptic should
have announced R8 the next for tbe retotrn of tho paroxysm. By thia
plan we should shelter ourselves from every species of connivance, even
tll[>pnsing that a man, whom we had always seen honest and upright,
could po!>•ihly have any secret or collusive understanding with a mao
withottt education, without intelligence,-and that in order to deceive
us. We will confess that we did not ourselves do this itijustice, even iu
thought, til either the one or the other; and we feel bound to render the
181lle tcotimony to MM. Dupotet and Chapelain, of whom we have more
lhan once had occasion to speak to you.
•Tho cemmi..ion met again on the 6th of October ·at noon, in the
:ibr"nr"y of M. Bourdnis, at which hour Cazot arrived there with his child,
M. FoisAAc having been invited to come at half.past twelve: he wu exact
his appointment, and remained in the aote·room, without the cogni•
nee (,f Cazot, and without any communication with ua. We sent to
iufot·m him, however, by a •ide door, that Cazot wu seated on a sofa,
placed tP-n feet from the door, which was closed, and that the cornmiaaion
requested he would magnetize, and awaken him also at that distance, be,
M. Foissac, remaining in the ante.room, and Cazot in the library.
" At tweuty·three minutes before o~. while Cazot was occupied with
the conversation which we carried on among oul'liOh•es, or examining the
pictures which adorn the library, M. Foil!88c, placed in the next room,
begun to moguetize him: we remarked that in four minutes Cazot began
alightly to droflp th" eyelids-that he had a restlesa unquiet air-and that
in nine minutes he was asleep. M. Gucrscnt, who bad attended him for
bi• epileptic attacks at the Hopitul des Eufants, Mked him if he remem•
bered him :-be answered affirmatively. M. ltard inquired, when be
ehoold have a paroxysm. He replied that it would be this day four
weeks, (the 3rd of November,) at five minutes after four in the afternoon.
He was then asked when he should have another, tu which be answered,
after apparent reflection and hesitation, thot it wootld be five weeks aftet
tile one which he bad just indicated-the 9th of December, at half pu1
aloe In the morning.
"Tbe proce1 verbti of this ~anoe having been read in the preeeoce of
Digitized by Coogle
CA811 OP CAZO'l'o tas
11. Foieeao 1n order that be might sign it with ue, we wiabed, u it baa
DeOD above relllkrked, to lead him into error: and in reading it to him
befon. presenting it for signature tQ the members of the commieeion, the
reponer read, that the first attack of Cazot would take place on Sunday
the 4th of November, whereas the somnambulist bad fixed Saturday the
lJrd. He practiaed the same deceit with regard to the eecnnd; and ltl
Foi.ac took a memorandum of these erroneous U.dicatinna u if they had
been exact; but having 10me days afterwanle put Cazot into IOmnambu-
liam, u be was accustomed to do, in order to dispel hie headaches, be
learned from him, that it was the 3rd and not the 4th of November, that
he ought to have a return of the fit, and be informed M. ltard of this on
the bt of November, believing that there bad been an error in the pro-
us verbal, of which, nevertbeleu, M. Itard maintained the assumed cor-
rectness.
"Tbe commi88ion again took aH the neceeaary precautions to enable
them to obaerve the attack of the 3rd of November ;-they met at four
o'clock in the afternoon at the houae of M. Georges; they learned from
bim,-from his wife,-and frum one of the work·people, that Cazot had
gone tbrongb hie cuotomary labor all the morning, till two o'cluok in the
kf'ternoon, and that during his dinner, he bad complained of headache;
that nevertbeleee he bad returned to his work, but that the headachl.
increasing, and having felt giddy, be bad retired to hia own room-boo
gone to bed, and to sleep, MM. Bourdoia, Fouquier, and the reporte11
preceded by M. George•, then went up etairs to Cazot'• room: M. Ge<or
gee alone went in, and f<mnd him in a profound aleep, which be begg•d
o( us to observe through tbe door, which was partially open to the atai~
41186. M. G"orgea apoke loudly to him-shook him rather rudely, pullttd
him by the arm without awakening him. Cazot was then seized witla
the painful eymptoma which com1&itute an attack of epilepey, and preci.INv
1imilar to that which we bad formerly observed upon him.
"The aecond attack announced at the sl!ance of the 6th of October, for
the 9th of December, that is, two months beforehand. took place at half
put nine, or a quarter of an hour later than bad been predicted, and wu
characterized by the same precursory phenomena, aJJd by the aame
1ymptome as tho.oe of th<• 7th of September, 1st of October, and the 3nl of
November.
"Lastly, on the 11th of February, 1828, Ca7..ot fixed the period of •
new attack for the 22ud of the following April, at five minutes before
1100n ~ and thia announcement, like the preceding oneo, was verified
within five minutes, that ia, at tt>n minutes bef<>re twelve. This attack
Will remarkable for ita violence, for the species of madne88 with which
Cazot bit hie hand and fore-arm,-ftlr the \-ioleut and repeated ahock1
with which the body was di•torted and f<,r ita having lasted thirty·fi••
minutes, when M. Foiuac., who wae preaent, magnetized him. VWJ
10011, tbia convulliv' eta•.e yielded to the 1tate of magnetic lk>mflambaliP\
)~
Digitized by Coogle
OASB OP CAZOt'.
•aring which Cazot got not of bed, sat down upon a chair, and Aid tW
he was very much fatig•ted ;-that be sh,nl<l have two-more attacu one
of which should be niue weeks fr01n to-morrow (June ~!:lrd,) at three
minutes after !ix. He would no•t fix the second atUtck. because he mua&
think of what wmtlcl take place hef..rehand. (at thi• morn•!llt he sent away
his wife, who wa.• preS<•nt.) and a.Iol•"l, that in about three weeks after
the attack nf the 23nl of June, h" •h..ui.I go mad; that his madness would
la.•t three <h_vs, dotring which ht· should be so mischi.-vous, that he should
attack every h<Kiy ;-that he sho11lrl even ill-treat his '"ife uoul his child ;
that he ought not to be left alone with them ;-aucl tl111t he <lid not know
that he sho11ltl not kill an iwlivirlot<~l withunt intending it. It would be
necessary to bleed him from both feet; 'then.' said he, •l•hn/1 b~ IIJell for
tlu ""'"'" of A.~tg11st ; nnd onee crued, the di.torrler will not relura, tDhtll·
~o~r eircum1llZnrcs mag hnppen to m~ a.fl ent'ards.'
"It Wlll' on tl1" 22nrl of April. that all these pre,·i•ions were announced
to n•, aud two rlays ufterwarols. the 24th. Camt wishing to stop a run-
away borw which haJ got the hit hetween his teeth, was violently thrown
down a!!ain<t the wh.,d of a cahri•>let, which occasioned a fracture of the
left •npra-orhitmy rid ge. awl hrui•e•l him horribly. He was conveyed to
the Hopital llt!anjon, wher" he rli"d on the 13th of May. On inspecting
the body, and opening the head, there were found trace• of recent mem-
1oran'"'" inflarnmati•m.-pnrulent collections under the integuments of the
, kull. an•I Itt the extrPmity of the choroid p!t•xus, a subst;mce externally
'thite, hut ycllowi•h interwtlly, and which containl'tl some small hydatida.
"We see in this history a young man. subjc>ct fi>r yt•a!'!l to attacks of
, pilep•y, fc•r which he had been treated succcssi,·ely al the Hopital det
l:ufants, anol at Saint {,r)uis, nnd in conseqou~nce of which be had been
'xernptc•l fr,,m military service. Magucti;m acted upnn him, although
\Je wa..tt perfectly iguurant of what \\·a8 going on,-nwl he heeame som-
tlllmhuli•t. Tlo" •ymptom!i of his di...,rder were ameliomterl; the par•
oxysms dnnini,hc>d in frt•<pteucy;-bis beatlachc•, his oppression disapo
pcared under tho influence of magnetism ;-he prescribed for himself a
treatment appropriate to the nature of his malady, and from which he
prorniseJ his re•tnradon. Ma~rlt·tized lt!ilhout hi• knnft'lr tlf!f, nud from a
:li•lnnct, he fell into 110mnamhnlism, and wa• aroused frum it with the
ame promptitotde, W! if lu' had heen magnetized close at hand. Finally,
he indicatcJ with extraor•linary preci•ion. one nr two months beforehand,
the Jay nnd the honr of the return of the epil<'ptic attock. Yet MttDitl
tlarcdintr he tM< tluu ~n./olt'ed roilh prrtriaion for altru-kr al 10 greal a dia
lance of time. an-i tt•r.n .for attack• r.hirh u-ould nrver take plotce, h<' di!l
fiOt fnr~•.<el', if11rl in lrrn dtllf• he •hmtf.i mrr-t 1citk a (aflll ncriflrnt.
,;Witlount attempting tn. recoowile all wloid1 at flr•t oi!!ht i• apparently
contradictory in sudt a hi•tory. the commission would dra\V your atteo
eion to the (act thnt the prevision• ,,f C11zot rrlale<l only to hu aUaclra;-
tbat the1are reducible to the knowledge nf organic modificatio~ IQ h'-
Digitized by Coogle
PRBVISoON OF SOC&.\TJIJB. 185
181( which were preparing, and which would arrive aa the ~~~
~t of the i1tterior jtl.etiotu; that theee previaions, although of greater
extent, are really precisely similar to those of certain other epileptics, wbe
recognize by divers premonitory symptoms, such as headache, giddineu, ·
irritability, the aura epileplica, that they shall soon have an attack. Is i1
then surprising, that these aomnambuliota, whose eerlABtions, ae yon have
-u, are extremely acute, should be able to foresee their attacks a 10118
time. previoUBly, according to some symptoms, or interior impre&&iona,
which eecape the notice of wakin~ men f It is in this way, gentlemen,
that we may understand the prevision attested by Areta!us in two part1
ofbia immortal worko,-by Sauvages, who also records oneumple,-and
by Cabania. Let us also add, that the previsign of Cazot, was not abso-
lute, and unalterable, but conditional; since in predicting an attack, be
announced that it would not take place, if be was magnetized, and that
in point of fact, it did not take place :-the prevision is roltollg orgllflic,
wllollg irtterior. Thus we easily understand, why he did not foresee an
event t11lwllg e.:r:ttrior,-that is to say, that aocident led him to meet a run•
away borae,-that he was imprudent enough to try to stop him, and that
be recei•ed a mortal injury. Thus be might foresee 811 attack which waa
not to happen. It is the hanu of a "·atcb, which in a given time, ought
to pus over a certain portion of ita facial circle, and which doea not de-
ICI'ibe that portion, because the watch is broken."
Cases of revealed prevision are quite as common u
those of organic, and have been known a much longer
Qeriod. Socrates presented a remarkablt> instance of
•his kind. He informed his disciples that he possessed
a genius, who told him future events and directed his
conduct, and whom he never failed to obey. He often
warned his friends (by the advice he told them of his
genius,) against certain courses of action, and, in every
case where they refused to profit by his counsel, dis:ts·
trous results followed.
He predicted all the events of any importance in hi1
own life, and lastly, his ~enth and its mode. After sen•
tence was passed on him, .his enemies waited but the
return of a ship to put it into execution. The night be·
fore the vessel was expected in, his disciples were
grieving bittetiy to think that before another evening
Digitized by Coogle
116 P&EVISION :>P CAZO'l'T&
the philosopher would be taken from them ; he informea
the sorrowful group around him that the ship had bee•
injured at sea, and would not return for three days; and
!he event happened as he predicted.
Cazotte's famous prediction was verified, even to tht
-ninutcst point, in the history of the French revolutiou.
Newnham takes it from La Harpe ; you cannot fail to oe
intensely interested in its perusal-its truth is undoubted.
"It appears but as yesterday, and yet, nevertheless. it wu at the begin·
Ding of the year 1788. We were dining with one of onr brethren at the
Academy-a man of considerable wealth and genine. The company wu
ownerone and diversified-courtiers, lawyers, academicians, etc., and,
IICCOrdiog to custom, there had been a magnificent dinner. At d-11,
the wio. of Malvoitio and Constantia added to the gayety of the gna.te
that eon of liberty which it sometimes forgetful of bon ton :-we had
arrived in the world, just at that time when anything waa permitted that
would rai8e a laugh. Chamfort had read to us some of bit impious and
libertine tala., and even the great ladies had listened without baving
reeolll'll8 to their fane. From thia Bl"fl88 a deluge of jests against religion.
One quoted a tirade from the Puelk; another recalled the pbiloeophio
lme. of Diderot-
•D deo boyau: dla dcmler prttre,
Serrez le coa da deraier rol'-
for the sake of applauding them. A third roae, and, holding bit glBM ia
hia band, exclaimed: • Ye1, gentkr~~e11,I am <11 nre tltat there i1 110 Gotl,
"' I- 61<re thai Homer il a fool;' and, in truth, be waa aa sure of the
ooe aa of the other. The conve1'118tion became more serious; much ad·
DJiretion waa expreaaed on the revolution which Voltaire bad effected,
and it waa agreed that it waa his first claim to the reputation he enjoyed.
lie bad given the prevailing tone to bit age, and bad been read in tht
ante-chamber aa well aa in the drawing·room. One of the guesta told oa,
while bursting with laughter, that his bairdre~ser, while powderiAg bi1
llair, bad eaid to him: • Do y(JW ob1er11e, lir, tkal althovgl I am bvt
,-w .Uerabl<! barber, I lt:J.,e "" 1110re religion thma a111 other 1' \V
ooncluded that the revolo1tion mu~t soon be comummated; that it wllf
iadiapenaable that euperatitton and fanatici•m should give place to philoa
opby, and we began to calculate the probability of the period when thia
lhould be, ami which of the pr<'sent company •hould live to see the rnp
tJfretumt. The oldest complained that th"y <'ould scarcely flatter thelll'
~elvca witt. the hope; the younger rejoiced that they might entertabl
. . \'8')' prlbahle expectation; and they congratulated the o\cad_,
Digitized by Coogle
131
lllp8Cially for bmug prepared this 6f'NI -ri, aod for bl.viDI beera the
peat rallyiug point, the centre, and the priQle mover ul the Ubeny .,
thought. ,
" One only of the gueeta had not taken part in all the joyoum- of tbie
convenation, and bad even gently and cheerfully checked oar ~
enthuaium. This wu Cazotte, an amiable and original man, but unhap-
pily infatuated with the reveries of the illuminati. He •poke, and with
tbe ma.t .arioua tone. •Gentlemen,' said he, ' be satiafied ; you will aU
- thia great and sublime revolution, which yoo .a much desire. Yo11
know that I am a little inclined to prophesy; I repeat, yoo will 1e0 it.'
He- &118Wered by the comml'n rejoiuder: •0... uetl• be 11 e~
Ill ue14Gl.' • Be it .a; but perha~ ooe mu.t be a little more than con-
juror for what remains for me to tell you. Do yoo know what will h.
the CODIO<JUence of this revolution-what will be the conaequence to all
or yoo, and what will be the immediate reeolt-the well-eetabli.hed
eftect-·dle thoroughly-recognized conaequeuce to all or you who are
here preeent f' • Ah !' eaid Condorcet, with hi,!' in.alent and balf.eupo
preeeed emile, ' lei u. h~ philoeopher ie not .arry to eneounter a
prophet.' •You, Monsieur de Condorcet-you will yield up yoar lae&
orealh on the floor of a dungeon; you will die from poieon, which yoo
will have taken, in onler to eecape from execution-from poieon which
lu ltaptliu11 of that time will oblige you to carry about your pereon.'
" At first. utonishment wu moet marked ; bot it wu eoou recollect.'ld
that the good Cazotte i.o liable to dreaming, though apparently wid
awake, ~nd a hearty laugh ie the con.aquence. •Monsieur C1110tte, the
relation which you give us ie not .a agreeable u your Diable Amonreux,•
!a novel of Cazotte's.)
"• But what diable hu pot into your bead thi.o prieon, and tbi.o poQ
lllld the.a executioners 1 Whllt can all tbeee have in common with phi-
J0110phy and the reign or rea.an t •This ie exactly what I say to yon; it
le in the name of pbiloeophy-of humanity-of liberty ; it is under the
reign of reaeon that it will happen to you thu. to end your career; and it
will indeed be tl&e reign of retUo~a, for then abe will have her templN,
and indeed, at that time, there will be no other templee in France than
the templee or reason.' 'By my truth,' said Chamfort, with a earcutic
1111ile, •JOfl will not be ene of the prieeta of tho.a templee.' •I do not
bope it; but you, Monsieur de Chamrort, who will be one, and mo.&
worthy to be so, you will open your veins with twenty-two cote or a
razor, and yet you will not die till .ame montbe afterward.' TheJ
looked at each other, and laughed again. • You, Moneieur Vicq d'Aair
JOD wil not open your own vei111, but yon will can.a yoW'IIelf to 1M
bled •ix timea in one day, during a paroxysm of the gout, mordet
tn make more sure of your end, and you will die in the night. Yoa
Koomeur de Nicolai, you will die upon the ecaffold ; you, Monaiear Bailly
-. the -trold; you, Mollllieur de 1\taleeherbee, on ~,. ~.tfold! •All
12•
Digitized bvGoogle J
188 OAZOT'I'..
Ood be thanked,' exclaimed &ueber, ' it aeema tbl.t lloo.elear llu 1111
eye bot for the .dctuk..y; orit be lw jllllt made a terrible execution, aoi
, thank bea¥en •.•• • .' •You! you also will die upon the acalfold.'
Ob, what an admirable guesser,' W811 uttered ou all sides; 'he bas swol1l
.o exterminate ua all.' • No, it is not I who ha,·e sworn it.' 'B11t aball
we, then, be conquered by tho Turks or the Tartars t Yet again •••'
•Not at all; I have ah·e.Wy told you, yo11 will tbeu be governed only by
phi\010pby-only by reason. Tk~y who will thus treat you will be aU
philosophers-will always have upon their lips the self-aame ph~
which yo11 have been putting forth for the IBit hour-will repeot all your
maxims-ami will quote, 88 you ha¥e done, tho verses of Diderut, and
l'rom La Pucelle.' They then whispered among themselves: 'You aee
that he is gone mad;' for be preserved, all this time, the most serious and
solemn manner. ' Do yo11 not see that he is joking, and yo11 know that,
in the character of his jokes, there is always much of the marvello111.'
'YeA,' replied Chamfort, 'but hi• marvello111neu is not cheerful; it ea-
von too much of the gibbet; and when will all this happen I' ' Six
fe81'8 will not p1188 over, before all that I have aaid to you ahall be
•ccompliebed.'
" • Here are some 811toniehing miracles (and, this time, it W811 I my~~elf
who apoke), but you have not iocl11ded llle in your list.' 'B11t you
•ill be there, 811 an equally extraordinary miracle; you will then be a
Christian.'
" Vebement exclamations on all aide-. • Ah.' replied Chamfort, • I am
comforted; if toe shall perish only wbeil La Harpe shall be a Christian,
we are immortal.'
" 'AI for that,' then observed Madame la Docbel8e de Grammont,
' we women, we are happy to be coooted for nothing in theae revolu-
tions: when I say fi•r nothing, it is not that we do not always mix Otll'o
selves up with them a little; but it is 11 received moxim that they take
no notice of us, and of our sex.' ' Your sex, ladies, will not protect yoa
this time; and you had far better meddle with nothing, for you will be
treated eutirely 811 men, without any difference whatever.' 'But what,
then, are you really telling us of. Monsieur Cazotte? You are preaching
to us the end of the world.' •I know nothing on this subject; bot wbaa
[ do know is, that you, Madame Ia Duche880, will be conducted to abe
tcalfold. you and many other ladies with you, in the cart of the ex~
tioner, and with your hands tied behind your backs.' ' Ah! I hor-
that, in that caae, I shall at len•t have a carriage hung in black.' 'No,
madame; higher ladies than yourself will go, lilu yo11, in the comruoo
~ar, with their banda tied behind them.' • Higher ladies! what! the
princeuee of the blood• • •Still more exalted peraouage>~.' Here a
!18usible emotion pervaded the wbote company, and the coootenance of
the boat was dark and 1)Werin0; they began to feel that tte joke W1ll
er,r"""' too eeriou. · · ·· ·
•
Digitized by Coogle
IOAlf 01' AJlO, 13i
'•Madame de Grammont. in order to dissipate the cloud, took no notice
efthe reply, and contented herself with saying in a careless tone: 'Y011
~<~II tlat le all not learJe me n>eJt a conje11or! • No, madame, you d
not have one-neither you, nor any one beside:;. The last victim to
whom this favor will be afforded will be . • • .' He stof'ped for a
moment. • Well! who then will be the happy mortal to whom thia
prerogRtivo will be given?' ' 'Tis the only one which he will baTe
tben retained-and that will be the king of France.'
"The muter of the bouse rose hastily, and every one with him. He
walked up to M. Cnzotte, and athlres•ed him with a tone of deep emo-
tion: • My dear Monsieur Cazotte, this mournful joke has lasted long
eoough. You cart-y it too far-even so far as to tlel"tlgate from the aoci•
ety in which you are, and from your own character.' Cazotte answered
llllt a word, nnd was prepal"ing to ),•ave, when Madame de Grammont,
who always sought to dis:;ipato "·rious thought. and to restore the Ia.&
sayety of the party, approached him, ~~aying: • Monsieur the prophet,
"bo bas foretold us of our good fortune, you have told uo nothing of your
own.' lie remained •ilent for some time, with tluwuca.t eyes. ' Mad·
une, have you ever road the siege of Jcru•ale111 ;,, .Josephus/' 'Yes!
who has not read that! But answer as if I had 1wver read it.' ' Well
hen, madame, durinp the siege, a man, for oeven days in succe.,.ion,
went round the ramparts of the city, in sight of the besie0ers and b&o
aieged, crying unt·eaaingly, with an ominous and thundering voice: Wo
lo JeM<&akm!-and the se,·enth time he cried: Wo to Jeru..alem- to
•y•df! And at that moment an enormous stuuo projected from one of.
lhe machines of the besieging army, and •truck him and destroyed him: '
Joan of Arc's case will appropriately follow that of
Cazotte; it is also a matter of history, and may be
relied on without the slightest hesitation. Like Socrates,
she openly professed herself under the guidance of a
familiar genius, whom she called St. Michael. She at
length fell into the power of the English, by whom she
was (as might be expected from the ignorance of the
~e), regarded as a witch; they tried her as a heretic
and sorceress by a~ ecclesiastical tribunal, and after
condemr.ation, burnt her at Rouen. I will take the ae>
count from N~wnham:
"On tbe 12th of February. 14~8. on which ilie di888troaa battle ~
,.,..vray-Saint·Peni' was fought, Joa!1 <aid toM. Rohert de Baudricourt
•
Digitized by Coogle
140 JOA!f or .u.a.
Go.ernor o( Vaueouleura, that tbe king bad &Ufl'erecl greet 1-beft.l'(i
Orleans, and would experience farther Joe~ea unleu abe were -~ to
bim. The e:uctitude of thia IUlllouncement determinoo Baadrioollrt to
~end her.
"The next day, on her departure, many persona asked JOIUI bow lbe
::ouJd pouibly undertake thia journey, since the whole country wu over-
run with enldiers ; abe answered that she should find the way clear. No
ll«ident happened to her, nor to those who accompanied her, aod evea
very ftlw difficultitl8 during the whole journey, which luted eleYen daya,
through an enemy's country, at the close of winter, over a diatance ofooe
hundred and fifty leagues, and intersected by several deep rivera.
"On the 27th of February, when abe was about to be presented to the
king, a man on horseback, wb<> saw her passing, employed eome blu-
phemoua expresainna. Joan beard him, and, turning her bead, aaid, • Ha,
dost thou blaspheme the name of God, and yet so near to death f' In
about an hour afterwards, this man (.,!!into the water and wasdrowned.
"The following month, Joan infonned the doctors, who were eomaU.
11iooed to examine her at Poictiera,-
" 1. That the English would be beaten; that they would raiae the
teige uf Orleans ; and that thia city would be delivered !'rom the aaid
Enghah; t
"2. That the king would be consecrated at Rheima;
" 3. That the city of Paris would be restored to ita loyalty 1
"4. That the Duke of Orleana would return from England.
"The king, in co~cil, having determined to send Joan to Orlea~~~,
they commissioned her to conduct a convoy of provisiona, of which the
J•lace stood in the greatest need." "It wuobserved to her, that it would
Joe a difficult enterprise, considering ita fortifications, and the Engliah beo
ricgen, who were strong and powerful. • By the help of my God,' an·
1wered she, •we will pot them into Orleans easily, and without any
attempt to prevent ua un the part of the F.ngliah.'"
"The g"nerals of Charles VII.. not daring to take the route which
Joan of Arc pointed out to them, the convoy was obliged to halt at some
lea,auea from Orleans, from the WIIJ\t of water, and from adverse winda.
Everybody was confounded and in grief; but Juan announced tb3t the
wind would Moon change, and that the provisions would be easily thrown
iuto the town, in spite of the English; all which was completely verified.
"The English retained one of the heralds whom Joan bad aeot to
aummon them to surrender;-they even wi~hed to bum him alivl' :-.ad
they wrote to the university of Paris to Cctl!lll!t upon the subject: Joa11
•ured them. that they would do him no harm.
"\Vheo Joan appeared on the redoubt called the boulevard de Ia
Belle-Cro.•ix. to summnn th<'m to rai..- t),., •i,.ge, thf'se loaded her witb
tbu~~e, e1peciully one ,,f tit•· .,ffi,.,.,.,. tu wh"m Joan replied, that •he spoke
&ab•l1 a11d in ~pit.e u th··rn Hll, t\i'')' w••ultls•lCD dep~~.rt; but t4at ll
•
Digitized by Coogle
SOA.IIr OP A.JlC• ltl
..U - - U, and that many of bia people woald be killed. Jn fact
when the fort of Toumellee was taken this ofBcer wished to make bit
IIK&pol by the bridge which eeparated the fort &om the euburbe; bat an
arch gaTe way beneath hie feet, and he, with all his men, were drowned.
" Ha-ring introduced the convoy of proviaiona and ammunition inte
Orleana, Joan foretold to the inhabitants, that in five days not an Englillb
man would remain before their walla.
"On the 6th of May, Joan informed her confeaaor, that on the neJt
day 1he •hould be wounded above the bosom, while before the fort at the
eod of the bridge. And in fact abe received a lance between the neclr
and the shoulder, which paued out nearly half a foot behind the neck.
"On the morning of the 7th, her boat having invitod her to partake of
JOllie fiab which had been brought him, abe desired him to keep it till
night, beca01e llhe would then bring him a stranger who would do hil
part in eating it. She added, that after having taking the Tournellee, abe
would repeee the bridge-. promiee which aeemed impolllrible to any
body; bat which nevertbeleaa wu fulfilled, like all the other impoaaibili-
tiee.
" The irreeolution of the king wu the greateet pnniabment to Joan:-
•I abaU only continue for a year, and a Tery little more,' Mid abe; 11
mnat try to employ;bat year well.'
" The Dncbelll8 d'Alen~n waa greatly alarmed, on eeeing her husband
at the bead of the army;wbich was about to enforce the coronation of
the king, at Rbeima. Joan told her to fear nothing-that ~be would
bring him back aafe and aonnd, and in a better oondition than be wae at
that moment.
"At the attack of Jargean, the Doc d'Alen~on wae attentively recon-
noitering the oatworka of the town, when Joan told him to remove &om
the apot on which be wae standing, or that be would be killed by eeme
warlike mi11ile. The duke removed, and almoet immediately &nerwarda,
• gentleman of Anjra, by the name of M. de Lade, waastrnck in the 'f8r1
plac:e which the duke bad jnat left.
" The Engliah generals, Talbot, Searles, and Falata!F, having anived,
with four tho018Dd men, to the relief of the Caetle of Beaagenie, in order
to raiee the siege of ihat place, Joan predicted that the" Engmh would
not defend themaelvea-wonld be conquered, and that this trinmpb
would be almost bloodle11 on the part of the royal army; and that there
would be •eryJe-not quite to aay ao 01te-killed of the French com-
batants. In troth, they lost bat OM ""'"• and &1moat all the Englilll
were killed or tllken.
"J0811 bad told the king not to fear any want of troopa for the expedi·
....a to Bheime, for that there would be plenty of paraone, and many
wonld follow him; in troth, the army increaeed visibly from day to day
ID'i ll1Uilbered twelve tho018nd men by the end of Jane, 1429.
• Whea the lliD)" had armed before Troyee, that oity ebut i.. pill
Digitized by Coogle
,-
JOAI'f OP AIC.
md refulled to yield. .Uter five days waiting, and uselc!ll efforta orca~
!arion, the majo1rity or the council advised to return to Gien; but JoQ
declared that in leN than tht·ee days· she would introduce the king iDll
the city, by favor or by force. The chancellor aaid that they would eve•
wait six days, if they could be sure of the truth of her promises. 'Doutl
nothing,' enid she-' you will be master of the city to-mMToWt.' Imme-
diately preparations were made for the prujooted assault, which sc
alarmed the inhahitants anti their garri;ou, thnt they capitulated next d11y
" Charles feared that the city of Rheims would oppo~e a long rt'8ist.
ance to his arms, and that it wuuld be difficult to make himself. master
of it, becauae be was deficient in artillery. ' Have no doubt,' oaid Joafl.
'for the (".itizens of tho town of Rhcims will anticipate you. Before you
are close to the city, the inhahi.,mts will surrender.' On the 16th of .Tilly,
the principal inhahitunl.il of the city laid ilil keys nt the feet of the king.
" During her capti,·ity, Joan made the following predictions, on the
lint of March. 1·130. in the presence of fifty-nine witue"e~. whose names
are given f:tithfully by ~1. le Bruu de Charmetles:-• Befim.• seven yean
are pn•t, the Eu~li.<h will nhand"u a larger prize than they ha,·e done be-
fore Orlean•. and will lose everythin:: in France. They will experience
the severest loss they have ever felt in France; and this will be by a
great victory which God will bestow upon the t'rench.'
"Paris was actually retaken by the French, under the command of the
MR1'8hal de Richcmont, nnd the Count de Dunoie, on the 14th of Apnl,
1436.
"As to the gre&t victory which should prove so fatal to the Engliab, M.
le Rrun think• may l}e uJHlerstood either the battle of Tormigny, gained
by the French in 1450. nnd whidt re~11lted in the cnnq11cst of ;\onnandy
or the battle of Ca>tillon, fou11ht in H:i2, in which the renowned Geo
Talbot perished, aud wbi~h completed the submission of la Guienne t.:
France.
"In order to explain the expres•ion, tcillln•e er:rrything in Frmu:f, the
lame author recalls the fitc.t, that the peorle in general restricted the tenD
France to what had ori:,;inally comp,.•etl the immediate dominion of Hugo
Capet and his sncceR!I<Jrs. 8l! !'Isle de France, I'Orli-annai•, le Berri, I•
Touraine, etc. Thus Joun of .\rc, born at Domremy, at the extremity rl
Ia Champagne, said that St. Michael had ordered her to go into France.'
LADY. I have been reading a somewhat similar ao.
count, belonging, I presume, to the same class, in the
"Use of the Body in Relation to the Mind," by Moore;
be says:
"There ia another form of enpen<enouons vision, for the exi~ o1
wbJcb we can IIC!U'Cely di""over ouffi~icnt reuon Wlleea tiU intimate u
Digitized by Coogle
8Br'IIRICB ZBCBOICJ[B. 141
bde'f'eloped f'acnlty, which, in another atate, may ba proP.,r to 1DIID
roe nature and character of thia strange endowment will be bell
e&pre-J in the lang-.111ge of one who believed himself to be poaeeSIIed
of it. Heinrich Zacbokke, a man remarkable for the extent of his honor·
able labon as a stateeman and an author, solenwly writes the followina
pllSIIIlge in hia antobiogrophy: •It baa happened to me sometimee, oo
Illy first meeting with Rtrangers, as I silently listened to their di1100urae,
that their former life, with many trifling circnmstances therewith coo.
nocted, or frequently aome particular scene in that life, has passed quite
involuntanly, and, as it were, dream-like, yet perfectly distinct, before
me. During this time I usually feel so entirely absorbed in the contem•
plotion of the stranger's life, that at Jut I no longer see clearly the face
of the w•known wherein I undeeiguedly read, nor distinctly bear the
voices of the speakere, which before aerved in some meaaure 88 a com
aoeutnry ou the text of their features. For a long time I held such
visions as delusions of the fancy, and the more so as they showed 111"
even the dress and emotions of the actors, rooms, furniture, and other accea
wries.' He was at length astonished to find his dream-pictures inva
riably confirmed as realities, and he relates this instance 88 an uamplo
•f his visionary gift: •One day, in the city of Waldshut, I entered an inD
(the Vine) in company with two young students. We supped with a
numerous company at the table d'hote, where the guests were Dlalring
very merry with the pectliiarities of the Swiss, with Mesmer's magnet.-
ilm, Lavater's physiognomy, etc. One of my companions, whose ontiooal
pride was wounded by their mockery, begged me to make some reply,
p!lrticnlarly to a handsome young man who sat opposite to us, and who
bad allowed himself extrnordiuory license. This mao's life was at that
moment presented to my mint!. I turued to him, and asked whether be
would answer me candidly if I related to him some of the most secret
paaaagea of his life, I knowing as little of him personally as he did of me.
He promised, if I were correct, to admit it frankly. I then related what
my vision hod shown me, and the whole company were made acquainted
with the private history of the young merchant-his school years, bU
youthful errore, and, lastly, with a fault committed in reference to the
atrong-bo& of his principal. I described the uninhabited room with
whitened walls, where, to the right of the brown door, on a table, stood
o black money-box, etc. A dead silence pre,·ailed during the whole
narrati11e, which I alone occasionally interrupted by inquiring whether I
apoke the truth. The startled young man confirmed every particular,
and nen, what I hod scarcely expected, the lBSt mentioned. Touched
b1 bU candor, Iah)Oit banda with him, aud 10id no IIICftl. He il, prob
.Wf, llillli....
Digitized by Coogle
CONVERSATION ll.
IOXJUJIOULJSII, ·
LADY I have been reading Dendy's Phtlosophy of
Mystery, and have marked a number of cases which
eeem to ·bear much resemblance to some of the st.agel
of fascination.
He says that ttomnambulism is the most perfect para-
dox among the phenomena of sleep, as it exhibits actions
without a consciousness of them ; indeed so complete
is suspension of sensibility that contact, nay, intense
inflictions, do not produce that mental consciousness
which is calculated to excite alarm or even attention.
He says that in London, 1833, a man was brought
before Alderman Thorp, who had a parcel cut from hu
arm, although he had strapped it tightly on to prevent
this, as he was often falling asleep during his walk.
Yet, even then, he usually took the parcels to the proper
directions.
The crew of a revenue boat, on the coast of Ireland,
about two o'clock in the morning, picked up a man
twimming In the water. He had, it appeared, left his
house about twelve, and walked two miles over a most
dangerous path. and had swam about one mile. After
he was taken into the boat he could not be persuad.sd
that he was not still in his warm bed at home.
In 1834, Marie Pan was admitted into the hospital at
Boldt'laux, France; her left arm and hand covere« with
Digitized by Coogle
NATURAL BLBEPWAJ:L..O. 1ft
deep and bleeding gashes, its tendons projecting, and the
bones broken. She had, in her sleep, gone into a loft to
cut wood with a hedging bill ; thinking she was cutting
the wood, she.had hacked her forearm and hand until
she fainted away and fell, bathed in her own blood.
She had felt no pain, but merely a sensation, as if the
pnrts were pricked with pins.
In 1832 some fishermen near Brest; in France, were
1nrprised at finding, at two o'clock in the morning, a
boy about twelve years o1d, up to his waist in the sea,
fishing for flounders, of which he drew up five or six.
Their surprise, however, was increased to wonder
when. on approaching him, they found -be was Jut
asleep. He was taken home and put to bed, but wat
.mmediately afterward attacked with a raging fever.
In 18-, says the Augsburg Gazette, Dresden was the
scene of a melancholy spectacle. As early as seven ir.
the morning a female was seen walking on the roof of
one of the loftiest houses in this city, apparently occupied
in preparing some ornaments as a Christmas present.
The house stood as it were alone, being much higher
than those adjoining it, and to draw her from her
perilous situation was impossible. Thousands of spec·
tators had assembled in the streets. It was discovered
to be a handsome girl, nineteen years of age, the
daughter of a master baker, possessing a small independ.
ence, bequeathed to her by her mother. She continued
her terrific promenade for hours, at times sitting on the
parapet and dressing her hair. The police came to the
•pot, and various means of preservation were resorted
to. In a few minutes the street was thickly strewn
with st;aw, and beds were called for from the house,
\Jut the hea.-tless father, influenced by the girl's 1tepo
18
Digitized by Coogle
146 OPPOIITIOR
mother, refused them. Nets were suspended li·om the
balcony of the first floor, and the neighbors fastened
eheets to their windows. All this time the poor girl
was walking in perfect unconsciousness, sometimes
gazing at the sky, and at others singing or talking to
herself. Some persons succeeded in getting on the
r-oof, but dared not approach her for fear of the conse-
quences if they awoke her. Towards eleven o'clock
she approached the very verge of the parapet, leaned
forward and gazed upon the multitude beneath ; every
one felt that the moment of the catastrophe had arrived.
She rose up, however, and returned calmly to the
window by which she had got out. When she saw
Jtere were lights in the room, she uttered a piercing
11hriek, which was re-echoed by thousands below, and
fell dead into the street.
DocToR. You have extracted all that is worth
noticing in the Philosophy of Mystery ; for a man is
certainly unfit to treat on physiology who believes, liko
Dendy, that electricity is the source of life, and who,
driven to confe.~s the fact of the existence of several casu
of apathetic trance p1·oduced by fascination, which he
quotes, says, "It is, I believe, quite true, that they were
unconscious of the operation; but even this is not safe.
Pain is given us as warning against ext1·eme tnj'ury,
that by our complaint o1· suffering, the surgeon's mtnd
may be on its gum·d."
Newnham says that the phenomena of somnambulism
t!re established and recognized by the antagonists of
fascination. And that in fact the knowledge of som-
nambulism rescues many of these nntura. phenomena
from the alledged dominion of son:ery and of the black·
nrt. under which they ha\'t: been classeJ l•y the ignoranl
Digitized by Google
,
P.&IBT BTO&IU.
· and the short-sighted, and rest.bres them to theu proper
position as the natural effects ofnatural causes.
Dendy, continually rushing into dilemmas from which
he cannot extricate himself withont overthrowing his
former positions, remarks." That whatever may be the
influence imparted by tractions, the phenomena of
ercited somnambulism are similar or precisely to thoae
1pontaneously occurring." "In a word, mesmerism is
true in part: it may induce catalepsy, somnambulism,
exalted sensation, apathetic sensibility, suspended circu-
lation, even death. Clairvoyance and prophecy aloM
are the impositions as regards its effects," etc.
In both cases the parties remember nothing whatever
of the recurrences experienced in sleep-waking. The
actions ofmany.natural sleep-wakers explain the origin
of many stories of pixey and fairy, who would enter, ir
some cases, the houses of their friends at night, and do
up all their work for them, and in others cause rnuc·.b
trouble, to whom they bore ill-will, by breaking their
crockery, overturning chairs, etc. A tailor in this city
who worked for a shop which furnished suits made to
order at twenty-four hours notice, had taken a coat to
finish by the next morning, under the expectation of his
wife assisting him. Arrived at horne, his wife was ill,
and unable to do anything to help him beyond sewing
the sleeves. He worked steadily at his task during the
day, but so much did his unusual efforts exhaust him,
that despite himself he went to ~ed with a heavy heart,
for he dreaded, with good reason, the loss of his situation
from the disappointment of his employers. When
roused at an early·h011f the next moming, he hastily pre-
pared to resume his work, when, to his utter astonish·
ment, he found the coat perfe~tly finished, and done too.
Digitized by Coogle
l.S tEilFOilMUIG DllEAMiJ,
be confcauced, in a much better manner than ,t was posei
ble for h1m to do it. Immediately J-erceiving that •
was the deed of his guardian angel, he fell on his kneea
.md gave thanks. He told me that it was the only way
in which the coat could have been made; for, on
account of his exertions the preceding day, he waa
utterly incapable of working, and the next morning coa/4
do /iUle more than stand. He had evidently risen in the
night and finished the coat himself, and must have done
this in complete darkness, for a light would have, in all.
1 probability, (owing to a peculiar state,) awakP.ned his
wife, and they had but one room.
Marcus, the freedman of Pliny, dreamed that a
barber.·sitting on his bed, had shaved him, and awoke
well trimmed; Marcus had uncons~iously shaved him-
self. Dendy mentions that early one morning, at a
farm-house in Sussex, England, an immense number of
foot-prints were observed by the men about J1. gate,
which were not there over night. On their return the
11ervant girl was relating her dream; that she was told
the cows had got into a wrong field, and that she had
gone out, opened the gate, and driven them back. She
had been observed by one of the family performing her
dream. A young gentleman at Brenstein was seen to
rise, get out of his window on the roof, and take a
brood of young magpies from their nest, and wrap them
in his cloak. He then returned quietly to his bed, and
in the morning related his dream to his two brothers.
They had slept with him and witnessed this feat, of
which he would not be persuaded until they showed him
the birds in his cloak.
Dr. Gall relates a case of a Mr. Roggenback, whc
\nformea him, in the presence of many person'J, that 1M
Digitized by Coogle
J94TURAL SLEEP·WAlUNG.
ud beer. a somnambulist from infancy., In thia state
his tutor had made him read, loo.k for places on the
map, (and which he found more readily than. awake,)
and perform many other actions, all of which he per
formed more readily than in his waking mome1:1ts. All
this time his eyes would be open and fixed ; he did no&
move them in the least, but would turn his head to vary
their direction.
A story is credited to Professor Upham of Bowdoin
College, relating to a farmer who rose in his sleer- went
to his barn, and thrashed out five bushels of rye in th4
dark, separating the grain from the straw with great
exactness. Captain Brown, of Portland, Me., while at
sea, became very ill and confined to his berth. Those
on board noticed a peculiar stiffness and rigidity of his
limbs. Though encompassed by timber, and unable to
go on deck, he saw distinctly all that passed aroi.:.'ll
him ; describing many vessels that passed his own,
together with several at a great distance, at anchor;
.1nd told all that took place on board of them. Hi'
descriptions were confirmed in every instance where it
was possible to make inquiry.
The letter of Mr. John Wise, of Lancaster, Pa., will
aptly conclude our cases of natural somnambulism :-
" From the age of teo to fifteen, it Willi almoet a nightly habit with II'.AI
tc gel op from my bed and travel through the whole houee, nnbarring tha
doora and walking lhrough the difFerent apartmeota with the greateet-
in otter darkoeM, 10metimee unlocking the back door, and travelling into
lbe yard and out-ho_., atoppiog at difFerent places, and examining, ap-
penmdy with the nicett precision, aoch articles u happaned to fall in my
way.
" Yet after being awakened, not the slightest recollection remained of
what had happaned. During aome of theee noctorna. excursions, I o.-
ed a dormer win:Jow, and crawled out thence to lhe very apax of tbe
.90ff C'!l oqe of these occuio11•, after gettins on the top of die boule,
l3•
Digitized by Coogle
160 CASE OF JOHN WISB.
tru awakened by a alight shower of rain, and it was with diftll:ulty •
..Ie a eafe deecent by way of the next neighbor's houae, which obliged
•e to rouae the family in uroer to get back to my bed again.
"The m~t singular feat, however, tba ; I performed in the somoamb11
'ic ttate, wae a situation that I gut into, out of which I could not extricate
1 yeelf again in a waking Ptate, neither could I, upon trial, without the
•istance of something tu step on first, get into it again. The ruom ia
thich I slept at this time, had in it 1111 old.fashioued cradle of double
•ngth, made for twin babes. This was placed upon a long narrow keg,
which stood on its ends, so that when standing alongside of it, the aidet
of the cradle c:"me within two inches of my chin, and it waa so poised,
that a 1light p ponderaoce either way would capsize it. Doring one of
my nocturnal .eramhulatious in the middle of the night, by some means I
got into tbia .adle, without the assistance of anything that would enable
me to &tep 1 1, 1111ve 10me strange inexplicable cause. It was a cold win·
ter night, ll!ld I became awakened while in the act of pulling books from
III'OUnd me, which were in the cradle at tho time. After being perfectly
awakened, it required a great deal of caution to support my centre of
1:ravity, until I had called the 888istance of some of the family to enable
me to get down.
" In the somnambulic state, I am told my eyes are wide open, and
have a glassy appearance. Altho11gh I would answer questions, and talk
Creel! JD subjects that were indicated by my conduct, yet it wu next to
1mpoeaible to awaken me by any other procoas than the application of cold
water. After a more advanced age, the&e symptoms have taken adilferenl
form. my nightly perambalatioDB being oonfined to my chamber, and they
~~re more particularly connected with the organs of bearing and vision.
It d0011 appear, that, like the inner vision without the aid of the external
eye, there is also a distinct faculty of bearing, independent of the exterual
ear. This has been experienced by pei'IIODI of my acquaintance. I hne
frequently hastened to the place from whence aonnda appeared to come.
GeneraUy it appears to be the calling of my name, by pei'IIOnl who&e
voice l can recognize; but the moat frequent delusions are through the
eye. These symptoms, from their frequency, although not fearful in them-
eelvee, have been of late a source of annoyance, and tlu.'y always occur in
a half-waking condition. The clearer and smoother the chamber in
which I sleep, the le1111 am I annoyed with these delusiona. Of these
11mptoma and their opemtio01, I have a tolerable distinct recollection
11\erwarda. I generally find myself sitting up in bed, in the act of getting
'P and moving toward• the objecta, which mostly appear to be human
heiog., and often pei'IIOns of my acquaintance. Although this happens te
me in a half-waking condition, still, I Jl088"118 the faculty of reaeoning
within myself upon the oeces•ity of not minding the.., delusions, bol
118ldom become perfectly BRtisfied uutil 1 get up and try to touch the
tWe!:t bill inv,riably get a me on being touched hy IIQOther pel'I!Of\
Digitized by Google
DISEAS&D SLEEP·WAKING. 151
lftBr beiug awakened, it bas often appeared to me tllat ll conf&t W
NeD going on betweeu the material and spiritual fuoctious."
LADY. Is s~mnambulism ever induced by disease t
Doc.."To&. There have been a great number of easel
recorded by the medical protession, in which illneu
developed the faculty, and when restored to health it
would be lost. Many of these cases present all the phe·
nomena of induced prevision, clairvoyance, etc.; and.
what will seem a strange fact regarding the matter
none ever think of doubting them, not even the most
bitter opponents of fascination; yet speak of them in
connection with fascination, and you will but excite their
anger.
We find a rase published by two French gentlemea.
of this character. The patient predicted a detail of the
principal events that sho11ld happen to her in the course
of the following years,-of the maladies to which she
would be subjected,--of the remedies which would be
neccssary,-of the effect of these remetlics,-of the
crisis which she would experience,-and of the precise
~riod of her cure ; all of which were substantially cor
atoct and accomplished.
LADY. Do medicines ever produce symptoms similar
~these 1
DocToR. Quite a large number of cases produced by
1edicinal substance, are also recorded ; the cases vary
rom those of intew;;e mental exaltation and development
·f the intellectual powers, to catalepsy and trance.
Dr. O'Shaughnessy, describing the effects of Indian
.1emp, tells us that in a lad of excellent habits, ten drope
of the tinc!ure induced the most' amusing effects. A
shout of laug!•ter ushered in the symptoms, and a traui·
tion state c;,r ,nt,lf,:plic rixidity, occurred for two or
Digitized by Coogle
152 WITCII CA. JLDI&Ol'f8.
three minutes. He enacted the part of a rajllh gtVlDg
orders to his co Jrtiers ; he could recogni2e none of his
fellow-3tudents or acquaintances ; all to his mind seemed
as altered as his own condition ; he spoke of many
years having passed since his student days; desoribed
his teachers and friends with a piquancy a dramatist
would envy ; detailed the ad·ventures of an imaginary
series of years, his travels and his attainments of wealth
and power ; he entered on discussions of religious, sci-
entific, and political topics with astonishing eloquence,
and disclosed an extent of knowledge, reading, and a
ready apposite wit, which those who knew him best
were altogether unprepared for. Fo.r three hours and
upwards he maintained the character he at first assumed
and with a degree of ease and dignity perfectly becoming
his high assumption.
Similar facts were. known in ancient times. The
Thracians used to intoxicate themselves by casting the
aeeds of certain poisonous plants into a fire made for
the purpose, around which they sat and inspired the
narcotic fumes. Moore says that there can be no
doubt that the incantations of witchcraft and magic
were generally attended with the practice of burning
herbs of a similar kind. The ancients deemed certain
temperaments essential to the reception of the divine
e.Jilatus, and the melancholic was considered the most
suitable, especially when aggravated by rigid absti·
nence and the use of narcotics, (this exactly suits Swe-
denborg, etc.) Pliny informs us that the soothsayers
were accustomed to chew roots supposed to b'e of a
certain species of henbane. The Hindooa employ the
Indian hemp for the same purpose; and in SL Domingo
Jle auppoaed prophets ".hew a plant called cohaba, that
Digitized by Coogle
OIACL£ OF DELPHOS• 153
.hey may be the better able to look int> the unseen
world and perceive the shadows of coming events.
&>phocles called the priestesses of Delphos laurel eaters.
because they were in the habit of chewing the leaves
of that shrub before they mounted the tripod, etc., etc.
Townshend tells us of a sleep-waker who played
beautifully on the flute, and was accustomed o impro-
vise upon that instrument with all the musical genius
he possessed ; but the charming strain, once uttered,
was lost forever. One day, in sleep-waking, being
asked to write down a composition, he instantly seized.
music paper and a pen, and wrote down the air you
observe on this paper. I need not mention that he wu
utterly incapable of such a display of talents in tbe
wakiDg state.
Digitized by Coogle
IIUIIb
POU.!l LA FLU'&
Digitized by Coogle
CAS£ PROM SANDBY.
The following case of
•.icen trom Mr. Sundby.
I'Uthfulness and accuracy.
diseased somnambulism it
It is related with singulllJ'
" It is perfectly true, that our poer friend who bas now been some
awnths wath us, presenta one of those singular and almost incredibh
_. of hysterical or nervous affection, which are at distant interval
llritnewed under the dispensation of the Almighty.
"The overthrow of the regular functions of the :1ervous system. wu
uccasioned by the almost sudden death of her father, to whom she wu
ID08t fondty attached, who was seized with illness, during her absence
from him, and died in a few hours after she retumed to her home. I
'Cannot entet into any Ionget details of the case, which has been attended
with all tho.re varieties, which have long characterized the complaint,
among medi.:11l men as the Protean disorder. The extraordinary powen
communicated \0 the other •cnoe• by the temporary IU1ptn.ri0f& of OM or
tfllo of the:~t, are 11ey01td credibility to all tho1e 11Jho do not 1Ditne11 it; and
I really seldom enter into any of the details, because it would be but
reasonable, that th<>~e who have not uen, should doubt tho reality of
them. All colors ~he can distinguish with the greatest correctness by
night or by day, whe;her presented to her on cloth, silk, muslin, wax, ot
even glase-and this I may safely say, as eMily on any part of the bod'
"' ..;th tM ha11d1, altho.tgh, of cottn<e, the ordinary routine of such an
.,xhibition of power, tak.&s place with the hand~,-the other beiug that
of mere curiosity. Her delicacy of mind, and high tone of religion•
feeling, are such, thnt abo ltas the greatest objection to make that which
•he regards in the light of a heavy affliction from God a matter of show
c.r curiosity to others, although to ourselves, of course, all these unusual
..xtmvngancee u~nervo•ts &\lonsihility, are manifest, for at least twelve out
:>f every twenty.four hours. She can not only read tcitk the greatell
rapidity any writing that is legible to its, music, etc., with the mere
pauing of her jmger• over it, whether in a dark or light room, (for bet
•igiu is fur the most part stupended, when un.Ier the influence of tbe
attack, or paroxysm, ahhongh she is perfectly 8tn•ible,-nay, more anJ/e
and cleJJer tbnn in her natural state,) but within this month past, 11he hat
been able to collect the coutents of any printing or MS., by mere!) layin(!
herband ou the page, without irr.cing the lines or letters ;-ond I MW her
last night ouly, declare the conle•il• of a note ju1t ~rought into the roo•,
in thia way. (when I could not decipher it my.elf without a candle,) aud
with a rapidity with which 1 could not have rea4 it by daylight. I hav&
teen her develop hand·writing by the application of a note to tbe back
cJC her htmd, neck, or foot; and she can do it at any time. There il
nothing UNNATURAL in this, for of cuul'l!e the nervoue eUICeptibilitJ
•x\ends all over the surtitr.e of thr hoclv. hut use and habit CliUUf' ua ..
Digitized by Coogle
I fiG CAl& P&OK BANbSr
limit itl power more to the fingers. Many, even medical men, ta.ke 11~
themaelvee to declare, that ~ are all (her medical attendants aa well)
llllder a ·mere dehwion. We aalr. none to believe anytl:ing, if they pre-
fer not to do eo, and only reply-The cue ia equally marvellous eithet
way ;-either that thia onr poor patient ahonld be tbna afflicted, or that
e!Jhteen or nineteen pei'IIOIIa or my family and friend&, in the daily habit
or .eing her, should fancy abe ia for every twelve hours out of the
twODy-four, doing at intervals, that which she ia not doing. There are
IIIIIDY exhibitions or extravagant powers which she poasessea, tlat w tllll
-J to110 oM: for finding it difficult to acquire credit for leseer things, we
.to not venture on the greater. Her pot«r ce<Uu tM 1110me..: tAe Qt~Mil
,._, o.r. A conaidenble awelling baa at times been viaible at the beck
IJCthe bead, which baa yielded to the treatment.
"It ia certainly a caae which would be an instructive one, in the COD•
licleration of the physiology of the human fnme: but abe, poor thiO« I
II moat avene to experiments being purpo86ly made on her ;-but in her
-..y day life among ua, we baTe no lack of proof for at! we believ• and
·-·
"Between the attacks, abe ia as perfectly in a natural alate, u ever abe
- in her life. There ia but one paradoz in her state; and tlldt ia, that
lhe can at auch times, hear -• eounda and not ollter•, thongh very much
louder,....and 1100 •o•• things, and not otAtr•, though pl~ before her.
lbe could bear a tu•e t~~hi.tled, when abe could not bear a gun &red cloee
to ber. It ia certainly the absorption or aLaence or mi01l that ~
111111 eeft6 to 10me things, though ~ to Dllcre, Jik,. ,..., ...._.
-~ D11 dnw Dr. T-IIXIOIUllll f'o&o k."
Digitized by Coogle
CONTERSATION X.
Docl'oa. We have now reviewed, with "' rap'd
glance, the six stages, curative efFects, and natufaJ COD•
ditions, simulating the phenomena of fascination. To
complete our plan, I have compiled a brief history of
the matter, which, with your permission. I will read.
LADY. I am anxious to hear it. It certainly appeera
strange to me that the matter should have been forgot.
ten through the middle ages, and, until very lately,
remain unknown.
DoCTOR. That it was known and practised is an UD•
doubted fact, but it was, after the Christian era, confined
to convents ; and many a miracle at the tombs and othet
depositories of the relics of saints, may safely be referred
to this agency of fascination. In some instances, the
Esculapean visions, prescriptions, etc., were repeated.
St. Gregory, bishop of Tours, tells of the efficacy of
pilgrimages to the tombs of saints. Says he: .. Any
person filled with faith, coming near the tombe and
praying, will be speedily cured of whatever illness may
befall them. Some affirm that the sainte apJ~ear to
them in the night (of course while sleeping on or near
the tomb), during their dreams, and reveal tho& proper
remedies." For any number of similar instances, see
accounts of St. Martin, Protegene, Moses of Lysbia.
Julianua of Edessa, St. Litard, St. Fortunatus, etc., etc.
Leger quotea George Fabricius, who, in hit Commea
14
Digitized by Coogle
168 ROTAL TOUCHING.
tary I)U Poets, 1720, p. 73, says that he saw, in Padua.
country people who were going to the church of St.
Anthony for the purpose of obtaining salutary visions
during their sleep. "This," says Fabricius, "exactly
resembles the ancient pagan worship. And in truth,
even at the present day, the .churches of saints ar«S
resorted to, to receive the same kind of rev~lations fm
curing disease."
The king of France, from the time of Clovis, was th6
royal fascinator of his day. Laurent tells us that one
of the officers of Clovis was afflicted with scrofula ; the
king felt much concern for him, as the resources of
medicine had been tried in vain. He dreamed, one
night, that if he touched the officer's neck, it would be-
come well ; he arose in the morning and did so; from
that time the power remained in his family.
Marino Cavalli, ambassador from Venice to Frane&
in 1546, thus describes the operation of touching for thf
scrofula. After giving a description of the reigning
monarch, Francis, he says : " Like all the monarchs of
France, he has received from heaven the singular gift
of curing the evil. Even Spaniards flock hither to
profit by this miraculous property. The ceremony
takes place some solemn day, like Easter, or Christmas,
or the festivals of the Virgin; the king first confesses
and receives the sacrament, then makes the sign of the
cross on the sick, saying: 'The king touches, may Go~
cure thee!' If the sick were not restored, they woulo
not, doubtless, flock hither so fllr ; and since the num-
ber augments always, we must believe that God takes
this meth0d to deliver the infirm, and to increase, at the
same time, the dignity of the crown of France." The
power, however, it seems Ollly remained with them
Digitized by Coogle
aUBEN OP NAVABBB. 16t
while virtuous; for the abbot of Nogent tells us thll&
Philip the First, who at first possessed the gift when be
ascended the throne in 1060, lost it by indulgence ·ll .
vice.
Many other monarchs, determined not to be outdone,
auumed the same power, not curing scrofula alone, but
all other diseases; in one instance it was of singulat
benefit to one of the "Lord's anoivted." James, th.s
exiled king of England, engaged himself as a touche.
for s«rofula in the public hospitals of France. Fascina-
tion was also useful, in some cases, to the royal opera-
tors themselves: Tytler, speaking of Charles VI., tells
us that "he once narrowly escaped being burned to
death, and in conttequence was seized with a dreadful
fit of frenzy. To relieve him, they sent for a magician
from Montpellier, and he became somewhat better."
We are told by Beniveni,a Florentine physician, that
he ht.d a young man under his care, who was wounded
in the chest by an arrow, which surgical skill could not
ext.·act. After a time of great pain, this faculty of pre-
vision became developed, and he told the day and hour
when the arrow-head should issue from the wound, and
the time of his perfect cure ; said he would go to Rome,
die there, etc., with many other strange particulars, all
6f which, to the astonishment of the narrator, happened
exactly as he had predicted them.
In the eighty-fourth page of the Life of the Queen of
.Navarre, it tells, while lying at Metz, at the point of
death, in consequence of a severe fever, she described
the battle of Jamac in every minute particular; told
the victory of her son ; his falling to the ground, death
of the prince of Conde, and flight of the enemy; nnd
the information was confirme.1 the next niaht, ~!> tht
Digitized by Coogle
180 CRARLU a. BALL.
utonishment of her attendants, who had thought her
delirious while giving it.
Van Helmont tells us, that "there exists in man 1
certain energy _which can act beyond his person, accord·
iDg to his will or imagination, and impart virtues, and
exercise a durable influence, even on distant objects "
Cardanus at Naples, in 1501, performed extraordinary
cures by fascination. He declared that nature had
endowed him with strange faculties. He could go into
sleep, waking at will, and in that state cure himself of
an occasional attack of the gout, prescribe remedies.
see at a distance, and correctly predict future events.
For all these faculties he was imprisoned, as a sorcerer.
llt Bologna.
A volume might easily be filled with facts similar to
•.he above. But it is unnecessary to recite them all;
when once attention is awakened to the subject, enough
can be found in our every-day reading and observation.
Suffice it to say, that there is an uninterrupted chain of
evidence from the earliest times to the present. I shaUJ
briefly, then, recount a few of the most remarka'hle,
which I will mainly extract from Dr. C. R. Hall, a bit-
ter opponent of fascination, but who, despite himself,
gives such evidence in its favor-even his own expe-
rience proving it-that the perusal of his book, " The
Rise, Progress, Mysteries," etc., etc., will convince any
person of the reality of the subject he tries to injure,
and also of his own silliness in endeavoring to make
ridicule a test of truth.
In the seventeenth century there appeared in England
a gardener, Levret, an Irish gentleman, Valentine Great
raks, and a Dr. Streper; and in Italy, Francisco Bag-
none, etc., all of whom possessed the power of clllinJr
., ,~.
~ ' gitizedbyGoogle
LIFE OF MEBMEL 16
dileues by touching or striking with the hand. The
most celebrated of these. Greatrakt is represented by
the Lord Bishop of Derry, as being a simple, unpre-
tending man, and sincerely pious. The same authority .
informs us, that not only had he 1een, among other
cures, " dimness cleared and deafness cured by his
.ouch, etc:, etc.; running sores of the king's evil dried
ap; and kernels brought to a suppuration by his hand •
grievous sores, of many months' date, in a few days
healed ; obstructions and stGppages removed ;" but
.. even cancerous knots in the brea11t dtl!solved."
Gassner, in 1770, excited much attention in Germany
and performed several miraculous cures. ID 1794, a
Count Thun appeared at Leipsic, professing to cure
gout, palsy, and other complaints, by the imposition of
his hands ; he was of a weak constitution, and his suc-
cess would vary.
Mesmer was born in 1734. He was a severe stu-
dent, and soon became a proficient and able physician.
It has been truly observed ,that from time immemorial
lhe mineral magnet was employed as a remedy in the
cure of burns, and other injuries, but it was not until
lhe sixteenth century, when alchemy was tn its zenith,
that its use as a remedy for internal diseases became
general. At this time there was the earliest specula-
tions on the extensive diffusion of the magnetic principle
which, as in our own day, was made to explain the
motions of the planets and the Jaws of life.
Mesmer fell into the universal error, and commenced
treating the sick by means of magnetized rods, which
be obtais.ed from Father Hell or Holl, a Jesuit, profee-
IOr of Astronomy at Vienna. His great success aston•
11hed himself, and ver: much chagrined the professor
Digitized by Coogle
LlPII OP MEBMEa
the consequence of which was an irreconcilable quam:
between the two. The acuteness of Mesmer soon led
him to perceive th:1t he might dispense with the rods
and that he could produce the same effects by merely
drawing his own hands from above downwards in front
of his patient.
His success in fascination was wonderful ; for a
great number of years nothing like it had been seen in
Europe, and the fame of Mesmer spread rapidly. He
left Vienna, and travelled through various towns and
cities in Europe, met with considerable encouragement
finally returned, and then left for Paris, where we find
him estab1ished in 1778. D'Eslon, one of the court
physieians, was his first convert; others soon followed,
and the majority of the Parisians declared in his favor
He finally surmounted the enmity of all his opponents
and retired with a large fortune, the result of his bene·
volent exertions, after founding a school of pupils,
nearly all of whom became celebrated. The facts in
his experiments were allowed by the French Academy
of Medicine, but the idea of a fluid denied.
The Marquis de Puseygar, one of Mesmer's pupils,
having, in March, 1784, f.<tscinated his gardener, found
that his patient was capable of holding a conversation
while wrapped in induced somnambulism. He found,
moreover, that the patient not only understood the
words, but even the unexpressed thoughts of his mas-
ter, and would answer ·
with equal clearness the intended
question while it was yet a mere sug·gestion of the
mind, as after it had been conveyed to him in language
This was the origin (wrongly so called) of induced
10mnambrIism.
In 1778 Perkins, an Amcrir:m Rlll'geon practtsing iD
Digitized by Coogle
TJU.<JTOU OP PBIUtiNII. usa
London, invented and obtained a patent for his "metal.
lie tractors." The tractors were merely small piecea
of ateel, strongly magnetized, (nothing more than a dif.
ferent form of the magnetized rod.) They were applied
over the affected part, and gently moved about, touch·
ing the skin. Gout, rheumatism, toothache, and palsy,
were a few of the diseases cured by the tractors, etc .
Among those who publicly vouched for the truth of the
wonderful cures performed by means of the tractors.
were eight university professors, four being professors
of medicine; twenty clergymen, ten being D.D.s;
thirty-six medical men, nineteen being M. D.s. ·
To prove the error of these doctors of divinity and
medicine, two men in Bath had precisely similar instru-
ments made of wood, painted and shaped so as exactly
to resemble the real ones. These were publicly tried
with all due solemnity, at first upon five hospita.
patients. Of these four were affected with chronic
rheumatism in the ancle, knee, wrist, and hips. The
fifth had chronic gout. All were much relieved. One
was sure that his knee was warmer, and thought tha•
he could walk across the room. He did so, tlwugh 1u
had previously benl unable to stir. · The following da'
the real metallic tractors were applied, with results pre
cisely similar. Mr. Smith applied the wooden tract!)rt
to a patient with rheumatism of the shoulder, so sever•
as to prevent his raising his hand; in four minutes th,
man wus able to l!ft his hand. In another patient tbt.
fictitious tractors caused so much increase of sutferin@,
!hat he would on no account submit to a repetition ol
the operation. Had these sapient individuals but hal(
the talent of Mesmer, they would soon hav<. discoverec!
Lhe real scurce of action.
Digitized by Coogle
•
,
•
GBifB&AL •&BLIJfG.
Fascination has beell known and practised to •
greater or less extent in the United States since bl
early part of the nineteenth centur) ; at the preaeoi
time we have scores of lecturers traversing the country
The people receive it rather doubtingly; they want
10me show of reasoning to sustain what they consider
!'xperiments against the laws of nature. To show the
feeling I cannot do better than add an editorial from
one of my exchanges. After describing the scene,
performers, and examining committee, to the latter ·of
which he belonged, he says :-
.• The first evening the lady'a eyes were bandaged so that the commit-
lee were •tisfied abe C?<Jnld not aee. On Thursday night more thaa
usual pains were taken. Adhesive plasterw were put over her eyee, and
they did positively adhere so closely to her akin that they were with dif·
ficolty removed. Over these, soft kid gloves were spread, over theM
again, a handkerchief was tied, secured above and below by tape atringa.
"It was an unusual and very aevere teat. Her eyes were, withoal
ioubt, IN TOTAL D.t.RitNJtll-in regard to that, there ia DO poaaib}e mi.
take; but notwithstanding all our precautions in bandaging, SR& DID 11:1:.
She read the names of a ecore of newspapers, and some o( the smaller
print on them-he read writing with a lead pencil-told the time by
aumeroua watches, though aet far from the true hoar, and deecn'becl the
watches. She alao read aeveral bank note&
"She held the papers, etc., over her forehead, at the lower edge of'her
nair. While engaged in her readings 1he wu nry eprightly, 111111
evinced considerable amartne-but we have not room for f'artber
detail.
" In regard to this matter, we can only eay that we do not compreheod
it. .If It be trickery, it ie splendid trickery. The jogglerw of the Eaat
11tound you, but they prepare all the machinery-here you are allowed
UJ prepare the aubject to your own aatisfaction. In regard to the p...,
aumption that arise• in the mind. 1111 soon as we are convinced that abe
cannot see with her eyes, that there ie some aeries of cunningly df!will6d
ad secret signa by which communication• are made to the young I"'Jy,
we have to say, that watches and paperw were given to her that DD eye
taw but our own, and yet ehe told as usual
••Our 1tobborn akefticiml prompts Ul to eay, that though wime.lns
euch bewildering teeta a thoWIBDd time" we would belitve we were e
thousand times deceived, before we WO'l d grant th11t she AW with h•
train, up lhrougb her ekull.''
8Ul't.iB'l'l1'10tl8. lot
LADY. I think there is evidence enough on the sub-
oect of fascination to convince the most incredulous, and
were the matter of our conversation published, no one
would rise from its perusal without leing a thorough
believer.
DocToa. In advancing the various arguments, I have
merely reviewed the substance of the conclusions that
have convinced myself. Some curious phenomena
~identally observed, led me to examine the matter
closely, and the result has been. not .)nly an entire con-
viction of its truth, but an equal conviction that that
truth may be made so plain as to appeal to the common
1ense of all.
My knowledge of the subject has gi~en me a :iue ta
unravel much of the history of superstition in thi1
world. I have found fascination to be a most terrible .
agent of imposture in all ages, as we have before seen
Jehovah punished its practice among the Jews with
death; that is, its practice as regarded the production
of spiritual clairvoyance for purposes of divination : in
other respects it was extensively known and practised
u a curative agent. Witness the case of David, etc.
In our own day, Robert Cochrans, Joseph Smiths,
Swedenborgs, etc., etc., are in turn gaining hosts of fol-
lowers, and all through ignorance on this subjecL
Fascination, however, will most assuredly crush them.
and so well is this fact known, that, perceiving its
onwatd progress, many of them are even now endeav.
oring to wrest its phenomena to support their own
views. Professor Bush says that the "Clairvoyance
of Swedenborg was not induced by human agency."
Granted. "That: unlike the magnetic seers, who are
D a state of internal, but not at the same time of ezm
Digitized bvGoogle
166 SWEDENBORG;S 8UfPOR1'£Jl8.
Jtal consciousness, Swedenborg was in both at once
H11 prerogatit-e was the opening of a SPIRITUAl. 1igltt
whi, h left him still in the enjoyment of !tis NATUJlAI.
1igkt. Hence he could know and distinctly describe i2
his state of external consciousness, what he saw with
his spiritual eyes, and could know with pe1 feet accp.
racy, free from all illusion, what was going on around
him in the natural world, at the same time tnat he per-
ceived what was transpiring in the spiritual world; and
so perfectly was he in the possession of external con-
sciousness while in the exercise of his spiritual per-
ceptions, that on one occasion, when moving in a
funeral procession, he was actually engaged in con-
versation with the spirit of the person whose body he
was following to the grave."
If such be the case, and Swedenborg's supernatural
claims rest on the fact of his seeing and holding com-
munication with both worlds at once, then must a sin-
gle well-authenticated fact, like that of the boy who
possessed a similar power mentioned some pages back.
overthrow all such claims, or indefinitely extend them;
and this, too, without considering that Swcdenborg'11
revelations were a natural sequence to his former philo-
sophical speculations, and but confirmed them. How•
ever, as my object in these conversations was more to
suggest thought than enter into detail, we will now end
them.
LAnv. Will you be kind enough to give me some
directions with regard to the best manner of fasoi-
nating 1 As you think ladie~ 'is well as gentlemen can
practistl it, 1 would like to be able if ever called upon.
DocToR. With pleasure ; an.:l I do it the m\lre readil'
teeause I know your motives in such cases wou·d bo
Digitized by Coogle
MODE OF OPERATING. 161
proper ones. It is certainly one of the mvst rcmarka.
ble facts in the whole matter, that the moral feeling•
exercise an extraordinary influence. Philippe the Firs&
of France has urJt been the only one who lost the
power by ill conduct; for the evil disposed often
become curbed and shorn of their strength in a sur·
prising manner.
Both patient and operator should be comfortably
seated,.so that neither will experience uneasiness in con·
sequence of position. The seat of the operatoc should
be htgher than that of the patient-the apartment
neither too hot nor too cold, and as few witnesses as
possible, but one person always present. Never begin
the process if agitated, but wait until perfectly calm and
self-collected. When all is ready, seat yourself oppo
aite the patient, inclining sideways, and taking his hand•
so that the inside of the thumbs of each press against
lhe other, the hands resting on a knee of each; keep
them in that position a few minutes, until an equal
warmth is felt, gazing, after the first minute, steadily,
1ut not with an effort, into his eyes. Still gazing,
release his hands, and unite your own with the palma
touching each other; then separate them to the right
and left transversely, (remembering that while commu·
nicating the influence, the hands, when passing from the
patient, must always have the back turned to him, and
the ~verse when taking him out of the state,) raise them
to the head, let them rest on it a few moments, slowly
carry them down the side and lower part of the head to
the shoulders ; allow them to rest a few moments there
also, and then gradually pass down the aJms to the end
of the fingers which should be resting on the knees; al'
.his time only the extremity of your own fingers should
Digitized by Coogle
l68 FEEL NO ALA&W.
:OUch, and tha very gently ; at the end of ea..:h pasa
slightly shake your fingers, as if to throw something
from them. You had better contilue the passes, as a
general rule, until the eyes of the patient close. Then
allow your hands to rest two or three minutes on the
head, and keeping your fingers in a crooked position, so
as to directly point to but not touch the parts you
traverse, pass slowly over the eyes and chest to the
stomach, where the \humbs had better remain about
twice as long as they did on the head, the fingers rest-
ing on the sides; thence carry them down to thv hips,
knees, and feet. Do this a few times, and then confine
your passes to the arms and body, without the head.
The sitting may continue from half an hour to two
hours ; but forty minutes I have found a good average
time. Of course, it depends, in a great measure, on the
tmpressibility of the patient, and the degree of relief
given. When it is desirous to terminate it, make two
or three passes from the knees to the feet ; then several
transverse passes before the face and chest in a brisll
manner.
Make up your mind, beforehand, not to be alarmed at
any strange and unexpected symptoms that present
themselves during the operation ; and whatever doea
occur, keep perfectly cool, and betray no agitatioD of
manner; if you let any signs of alarm escape you, your
patient is almost certain to go off into convulsions.
Mrs. W. came into my house, one day, in extreme pain,
vising from a wrist that had bee~. twice sprained ; at
times her agony was dreadful. od opiates, etc., entirely
faded to relieve her. A few passes down the arm and
wrist gave ease, and finallj, by continuing the precess
\he pain ceased: at the end ..<Lf twenty-four hours :L re
./ ....
't o;gitizedbyGoogle
IUIZP PDPZCTL1' OALII.
••
tumed•.and the same results followed the operation
The third ti ne, I proposed putting her to sleep ; after a
while her eyes closed ; she made a violent effort to
open them, and, failing, became much frightened, and
a cold perspiration broke out over her. I instantly
reversed the passes; but it was some time, after awa·
king, before she became calm. She was afterward
courageous enough, went to sleep without trouble, and
became finally cured.
One of the first cases upon whom I ever operated
was a Miss L. After a lapse of some ten minutes, she
declared herself incapable of breathing, and I could nol
discern the pulse at the wrist. Her agitation became
extreme ; she said death would surely ensue, and wished
her cousin, who was present, to call her mother. The
cousin, equally with herself, was frightened; so much
so, mdeed, that she was incapable of_ obeying her re.
quest.. though making great efforts to do so, seeming
like a person with the nightmare. Though dreadfuJJy
agitated, I continued the passes, directing them alto-
gether from tht. knees to the feet, and making some in
in a iransverse direction over the chest. She soon
breathed and the heart beat ; but, ere both actions were
regulariy established, she was insensible. I have rarely
seen a person more benefited by the effects of fascination.
When you can be guided to the seat of pain, keep
your fingers over the spot, and make the passes in that
direction. Toothache, headache, sore-throat, rheumaf..
ism, etc., will vanish under such manipulation, often
with a rapidity that equally astonishes the operator and
the patient.
In operating, husband your strength as much as pol•
sibJe use no nore exertion than just enough t~ tv•
16
Digitized by Coogle
1'70' ft1' flO UI'EJUlii&HTI.
the requisite motion to the hands and arms. You will
lose enough by imparting the nervous fluid, without UU·
necessarily increasing the debility. This is a common
61Ult with young fascinators.
If the operator succeeds in giving relief from pain.
ht: has produced the only phenomena he ought to ex·
pect. Do not allow the skepticism of those about you
to rashly involve you in the mazes of experimenting on
your patients. Point the unbeliever to the results; if
he attributes them to imagination or anything else,
tlon't dispute the matter-let him have his own way,
without your interference. Have patience-bide )'OUI
· time-and your turn will come, and, when it does, will
richly recompense the delay, and satisfy your curiosity
Sv great are the marvels, that our minds must be grad
nally prepared to receive them, or we could not bea
the communication with safety.
Newnham remarks, that the most important and fun
liamental characteristic of a good operator is, on hi"
part, the possession of sound thought and firm will ; hn
must not employ his processes in a thoughtless or care
less nmnner, or the} will be unsuccessful ; but he must
really throw his mind into the duty-must be attentive
to what he is about-must wish to do good-not allow·
ing himself to wander into distant or discrepant scene~
but concentrating his will upon the object before him.
He should be free from impertinent curiosity--a capital
moral blemish in ordinary life, but still more so iD
magnetic pursuits-because the good of the patient is
forgotten, the attention of the operator distracted, nnd
fixed upon any object rather than his patient's health
in such cases, no satisfactory results can be expected
Deleuze speaks of a that may be employ~d
Coogle
SOMA AMBUJ.ISM. 171
w th great advanlage iJL local paini ; this is. to place a
piece of lmen several times folded, or a fragment ot
woollen or cotton cloth upon the suffering part; apply
the mouth above it and breathe through it; it excites a
. lively sensation of heat, and the breath, which. it
charged with the nervous fluid, introduces it into tho
eystem. Then expel the pain by passes.
Somnambulism (says Deleuze) demonstrates the two-
fold existence of the external and internal man in a
aingle individual. It offers a direct proof of the spiritu-
ality of the soul, and an answer to all objections made
against its immortality. It makes evident the truth,
lmown to the ancient sages, that man is an intelligence,
1erved by organs. Never seek to produce it; but when
It comes naturally, profit by it as much as possible. It
is dangerous to try to produce this state by directing
passes to the head; make them equally over the body.
[f nature is disposed .to this crisis, the fluid will. of
itself, be carried to the brain, and the tendency be man-
'fested by the extreme tranquility of the patient. Then1
after passing your fingers, five or six times, at a short
distance before his eyes, ask him whether he sleepa,
and if he answers in the affirmative, you may ask him
regarding the treatment. Don't press questions, if he
mows no disposition to speak: let him alone-it is of
no consequence; it is not your i>bject to render him a
eleep-waker, but to cure him. If such a state wer~
necessary, it would spontaneously develop itself.
IN coNcL :JsiON, I WOULD REMARK, THA1' THE ONLY
OBJECT OF TilE OPERATOR SHOULD BE TO CURE HIS PA·
riEN r; THIS CANNO'r. RE TOO STRONGLY INKISTED UPOJf,
TRY NO EXPERIMES1'S; WAIT PATIENTLTt AND FOLL01t
f8Z TEACHINGS OF NATURE.
Digitized by Coogle
APPENDIX.
"ID October, 1842, on my way to the aynod of Gen_,. I - ' ltl.
~gbt at the bonae of Mr. Hall, at Byron. In the evening l oaW w
llev. Mr. Childa. On entering the room, I found hiaaon, an intellig.-
boy aged ten yean, thea in a cataleptic fit, aitting in hia fatber'a ~
and hia f86t in warm water.
" ID a few momenta be recovered. He frequently had Croua three to
tis fita a day-had received the helot medical attendance in the region;
waa no better-daily worae. He bad !oat entirely the powor of apeech,
for several daya. Great fears were felt that he would never recover
There waa a sore place on the back corner of bia bead, and on the spine,
occaaioned by a fall, some montba previoos. When the fita paaeed otJ
be became hungry, and not at all drowsy; and. during the interval a~
peared preternaturally bright, and engaged in aporia with companione, M
1111181.
" .\fter I had conversed a few minutes, I aaid, •I would have him
magnetized;' to which bia father replied. •I don't believe in it at all,'
1111d the mother added, •If you'll put- to sleep, I'll believe, 1111d DOt
without.' I replied, • I would try it: it may do good, and can do DO
bann.' During tbia conversation, I made a few p811881 in front of tbe
child, cbiefty with one band, and without any particular concentration o(
the mind or will, and mostly with my fllCC toward the mother. ID 1-
tban a minute the father said, •He ia in another fit I llio, be isn't, I de-
clare : I believe be ia aaleep.' Much eurpriaed, (for I had never IDIII
netized one,) I mid, • It eurely caonot be what I have dooe; but if 10 I
can awaken him.' Then, with a few revereod paaaee, be awoke. •Well,
thia ia atrange,' aaid I; •bot I can put him aaleep again, if it ia real.' I
then aeriooaly repeated the paaaea, with both banda, for one or lW:)
minute&, 1111d placed him in the J>erCect meemerie aleep. I then fixed IDJ
.yec on a lady on the oppollite aide of the room, the boy not yet banos
apoken for three daya, and said, •Henry, what do you eee l' in a fnll,
tlecided voice. He replied, •Azobab.' I then looked his mother in tbe
l'ace, saying, • \Vhat do you eee f' He gave a name unknown to me •
I looked to biw father, who rl'plit'<l, •It i• her raqidta IID'IIe.' I thC'n took
noegar into my fliOIIth, om) Mill, ' \Vhnt ! ' ' J'ittegar,' apeak
•fill witb !VCIII l;lrtneas, muoy CO!ItOrtlolll
LZTTEa FROM UV. MR. BEECBEL 111
~ tbe (ace The mother DOW whispered to ODe of the cllildren, Wbe
!ef\ her -t, aud I said, 'Henry, what is abe going forf' 'Sugar, aud I
love it,' he aaawered. She went to the cloaet, aud brought the eui(V. I
put eome ioto my mouth, which seemed to give him the IBme pleuure •
it I bad pot it in his own. I then said, ' What kind of tugar is itt
' MDICOndo.' •What is ita color f' •Well, lir, a kind of light brown.'
A amall gl&M jar, with a large cork, waa now placed in my baud, wh•
Immediately I obee"ed the olfactory ne"ee aft"ected, and the miUIClet
about the note contracted at the eame moment. I said to the girl, •Wh8l
Ia itT' to which the boy aaawered, • Hartshorn.' •How do you lmowf'
•1 ameli it.' I myeelf neither knew nor amelt. I then took out the cork
IJlCi applied it to my own note, when he ioatently placed hi• fingera oa
that part of the noee next the forehead, aud aid, •I feel it bere,'-ju&
where I myeelf experienced the burning tenaation.
" During all these experiments he tat on his father'• knee, with bll
bead down on his breut, and reclining againet his fether.
" I now uked him, •What is the matter with you f' • My bnin lr
eore.' •Wbere1' 'At the bottom of it.' 'Where it joioa the apinal
marrow,' (-tltll/4 obW.falal) •Yee.' •Whatoccuioneditf' •Ifel,
&om the great beam in the barn.' His mother here uked him, •Why
did you not tell 01 before f' • I feared you would not let me play thero.'
•Cau Doct. A - core yon I' •No.' • Why not?' 'He. don't kno"'
auything about it,' ('·ery decidedly.) •Can Doct. C--f' • No.'
'Why1' •He don't undentaod it.' 'Will the medicine you now 11.,.
do you goodf' •No' •Of what ia it compoaed' •There is turl'entiu.w
In it.' •Doee the Ductor give it yon for tape-worm f' •Yes.' Han
you auy f' • No.' 'Would yon like to walk 1' •Yea.' 'Well, wallt.'
He arote promptly, atepped between the chain, and laid, •Well, air,
where ahaU I go f' • From the wall to the door, aud back.' This 1..
did, avoiding every obstruction; and, at my direction, returned and eat
agaio with his father. I now, without notice to auy one, placed my fiA·
fier on the organ of Benevolence, thinking at the moment it· performed
th' ofBce of Veneration, and said, • Would you like to pray l' With 101114
4ghtn-, he said • No.' Some qoeetiona were uked, by his mother and
myself, about the Bible, eto.; but no Veoeration appeared. I then reool-
lected the true office of the organ, and said, • Have yon anything in yau
pocket1' He took out a knife. •Give it to me for my little boy,-
which he did promptly. I removed my baud. •Have yon auythint
elee f' •I have a pencil.' • Will yon give me that for my other boy f'
It baa no head f' • Never mind; give it-won't yon f' •I shouldn't
like to. • Well, but you will!' •I couldn't come it!' (fllit4 ptetMt.
~., Azubab said, • Ask him where the head of the pencil it.
Whereiait, Henryf' •Well, air, in the parlor.' •Wberef' •On tbr
wbldow.' A..mbah eaid, • Why, I picked it up and put it there to-Gay I
(N, ~f lid t101 how tAU.) I then eaid 'Henry, oallJOIG pt IU
u•.
Digitized by Coogle
l
ON MAGNETISM
He aroae, and went into the parlor in the dark. and took the bead r4 th•
pencil-cue from the window, to the very great aurpriae of na aU. In
deed, we were all 80 astonished, that it seemed a dream. lJunng theee
and aubeequent proceedings, be spoke with a promptneM, boldnesa.
and propriety, in advance of his yeal"ll, and beyond himaelf in bia natnra'
alate; and 80 pcrfootly evident was it that he was in a 80mnambu\ic state
daat no skeptic, I verily believe, cowltl have doubted.
" At my request he returned to his seat. I touched Benevolence, and
lnatantly he handed me the pendl-case. • For my boyf' •Yea, air.' l
then silently, and without any wilhng, and with a feeling of curiosity tr.
- and test the matter, touched Reverence. His couuten11nce at once
INUmed a sof'tened and solemn aspect. • Henry, would you like to pray Z'
•Vee, sir.' • You may.' He then commenced praying inaudibly. 'You
may pray aloud.' He then prayed in a low, audible voice. On touching
Tune, be Mng a tune, though not in the habit of singing. On touching
Combativeness and DestructiveneS!I, he raised his clenched fist to strike
me. He was ignorant of Phrenology, and also of my intention to to·;ch
any particular orgnn; nor did I, in any cnse, tl'il/the acth·ity of the orgnn.
1 now took out my watch, and holding the dial towards my~elf, ami ubove
the line of his visiun, his eyes being closed, and his bend bowed forward,
and my hand alw being between him and the watch, I nsked him,
'Henry, what time is it 1' • Eight o'clock, sir,'-which wl\8 exactly th.,
time by the watch, though by the clock in the room it wns fifteen minutes
faater. 'Henry, how long ought you to slcepf' •Well, sir, I must sleep
two hours and five minutes.' • Will you then awake f' 'Yc•, sir.' 'Very
well.' This I did for the purpooe of testing his knowledge of time, u
stated by Townshend, an English clergyman, wh08e work on this aub-
ject I bad read.
"I then Mid, • Will you go with me to Mr. Hall's f' •Yes.' •Well,
now we are there-now we are in the parlor: who io hero 7' • Mr. and
Nn. Hall; Mr. and Mn. Bardwell.' •Who elso ?' He did not gfve
lheir names, but intimated thnt they wero strangers. He described the
room and position of things, all of which I found correct, on going to lhe
boutoe shortly after. Tbeoe pei"IIOns were not in the hnhit of being there
In the evening, but company having come in, they were all together at
that moment. As tbia was in his own town, I did not doom it proof, and
10 said,' Will you go to Batavia?' •Yea.' •Well, now we are tbere-
aow we are at my hou~~e-now we will gn into my room: what do yoo
_,, ' I ..._.. a large table cm•ered with black cloth, and with books and
,-pan scnttered over it.' • How large is it f' • It is about five feet long.'
' How m1111y bonk-e&llesT' •Three, air.' • What IOI't of a stove f' H'
0011hl not or did not dtlacrib- Ji., for it w11• o qtteer a thing as not to be
euily dHCribcd. Nor did I pr him, for all hi n wen bad been pe~
fee y cou.,ct, nad I w aufficiently bad never ecen
...,. ab1dy; awl no other ble, (llve fee•
J.itTTEa FROM. UV. Ma. IIEECHEL Jn
., t.aree Uld a half',) or baa left it in 10Gb cOIIfiuion u mine , . at da
lllO-t
" l may here ay that, daring the whole period of bia eleep, he c.oald
bear the qaeation1 of others pat to him, and would answer them, if I
were willing; bat if I willed otberwi.ee, or forbade him to speak, ul
often did, be then would auawer no one bat myself, aot even father or
mother; nor ouald be 11..- their ouaYeration with me, nor with eacla
other.
"I ao•left blm for an hour, and· went back to Mr. Hall'a, giving him
leaft to conYerse only with b!a father. On m:r retnru, I found him ba
the laDle atate. He utterly refused to apeak to any one but bia father,
alld told him that he abonld not have another ftt till the following &b-
htb, (thia wu Monday evening,) wbicb proYed true; bat when that day
eame, be had llll'ff!ral.
" At nine o'clock and three minutes, holding my wafcb a beft>re, mJ
atauding eigbt or nine feet from him, I uked the rime. He g&'fe •aiDe
o'clock and fiye minute~.' • Look sharp,' aid I. •Obi three minutes,'
aid be. We were now carious to see if he would awake himself at the
two boun and five minutea, and u be did not awake when the clock ia
the room reached that time, I said, • Henry, did you mean by my watch,
or by the clock f' • By your watch, air.' •Very well' At the euo&
moment be opened bia eyea and looked around, and this without any 811&
or willing ormine; and what Will very affecting and cori'fincing, be ooaJd
DO longer 1peak at all, aud WM unconecio01 of all that be bad afd 01'
dooe.
" I have said that be had no return of &te till the l'ollowing &bbath
One day after that Sabbath, he came in to bia mother, much agitated, and
apparently going into a &t; and making the peuee, he eolicited hia
mother to do it,-who, merely to pacify him, paeaed her &ngen OYer him;
and eooa be fell into the mesmeric aleep, and eacaped the fit. After th111.
be wu 10 highly charged by bia aiater, that when abe wu in the next
room, in the closet, be would inataudy ta»te anything abe tuted, •t wha&
lbe ate, etc.
"Iri ten daya I retnrued, and magnetized him again, and went thf0118b
eeveral or the abo'fe experimentl. He alwaya, while ID the m-n.
ltate, dedared that it benefited him, relieved all pain, and woald oare
ldm.
" After I left, at my enggeatioa, be WM daDy magnetized: Ida ftte left
blm, hie voic.-e returned, the eore apote on hie head and back W8N
temoYed, and be recovered rapidly, till tbe family conld no longer-.
merize him. A man in tbe VIllage wu fonnd, who could and d811y did,
dll'be appeared entirely well On omitting it be bad a fit or two, and it
- l"ettWDed 1 and when I lut aaw the !'ather, be informed me that tb117
eaaeldered the child cared.
"I -1 add, I baYe Iince cared toothache ptly relleftd do dnloreu
Digitized by Coogle
.,. Olif MAGiif81'hUt•
.... remo•rd other pains and ewelliag8, u weB u headaclle. I - .,,
~we'fllr, a fall belieftr in all wbioh i• afBrmed or olairroyanta--....
- and .h,j~.,, I belie•e. In l"'lllpeot to many weU..uthenticated r.ote, I
Jlfri~r alllrm nor deny. That there are many cuee uf grou de.ption
and impoeitioa, I fUlly belieYe. On lOCh a 10bjeot, it can hardly bt
otberwiee. Tbia, howeYer, it a reuon why men of character and intelU
pnoe lhoold '-*IIIU it, rather than otherwile. • Bot it it deception.
Well, then, let 01 ex~ it by a liair trial. • Bot it it the work o( die
~eru .• How do you know f What it the ll'fideooe1 What harm hal
it done 1 •Oh, bad men han Died it f'or bad eodeI' And what it there
In the world that hal not been 10 Died f If' it it the work of the deru,
daeo we are not to be ignorant of hit de'fioee, and mould make the elWIIi·
uaion for out~'• eelf; for ignorant and bad meo will not ex~ hit de
rioN. From experiment and obeerntion, I have no doabt tat, u a
remedial agent, m-rilm it yet to .coamplilh mach good; and •
- . aa ..-It from it, ezcept, like all other ble.inge, it be ablllled.
"•n.LIAJrf H. BUCBia.
Digitized by Coogle
