{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1847__noyes___the_berean.pdf","mytitle":"The Berean","mylang":"de"}
THE BEREAN:
A MAIVUAL
FOR THE HELP OF THOSE WHO SEEK THE FAITH OF THE
PRIMITIVE CHURCH.
BY JOHN H. NOYES.
THE BEREANS RECEIVED THt WORD OF THE APOSTLES WITH ALL READINESS OF MlND, ANi?
SEARCHED THE SCRIPTURES DAILY, WHETHER THOSE THINGS WERE SO. ActS 17: 11.
PUBLISHED AT THE OFFICE OF THE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE^
PUTNEY, VT.
184T.
£-7-75-
LEONARD AND COMPANY, PEINTEBS.
CONTENTS
Preface, . - . - -
IV CONTENTS.
Outline of all Experience, - -
, .
The Way into the Holiest, -
Christian Faith, . - . .
Settlement with the Past,
Second Coming of Christ,
Stuart on Romans 13: 11,
The Man of Sin,
Robinson on Matt. 24: 29—31,
' Mistake of the Apostles,'
Date of the Apocalypse, - - -
Scope of the Apocalypse,
Dispensation of the Fullness of Times,
Tlie Millennium, - - ''
The Two Witnesses,
The First Resurrection,
Bush on the Resurrection,
The Keys of Hell and of Death,
Objections to the Foregoing Views of the Resurrection,
Review of Ballon on the Resurrection,
Connection of Regeneration with the Resurrection,
Second Advent to the Soul,
Throne of David,
Birthright of Israel, -^ - . - ,
The Sabbath, .
- -
Baptism,
Marriage, .• -
Apostolical Succession,
Puritan Puseyism,
Unity of the Kingdom of God,
Peace Principles,
The Primary Reform, -
Leadings of the Spirit,
Doctrine of Disunity, -
Fiery Darts Quenched,
Love of Life, (^'
V"-/ •'
h-
'
Abolition of Death,vi^
'
{^4-*f^}^
Condensation of Life, -
Principalities and Powers,
Our Relations to the Primitive Church,
PREFACE
The articles contained in this book were originally published sepafatelj^
md at distant intervals, in several periodicals with which the author was
connected, either as contributor or editor, in the period between the years
1834 and 1846. They are presented here with few alterations, excepting
those which were made necessary by the progress of time, and the difference
between the proprieties of a periodical and a book. The principal labor in
editing the present publication, has been that of selecting, curtailing and
arranging,
A book thus compiled will naturally lack formal coherency. But this loss
will perhaps be compensated in common minds, by the superior attractiveness
of short articles, and definite treatment of definite subjects. Moreover, if the
believing reader finds in such a mass of broken materials a substratum of
consistency and unity, which shall help him to a comprehensive system of
truth, he will have the satisfaction of ascribing it more to the power and care
of God, than to the logical art and forecast of the author.
It is fair that a preface should make known summarily what readers may
expect in the book before them. We present therefore here, the following
frank synopsis of the leading doctrines of this book, as they are distinguished
from the doctrines of the most popular sects.
1. In relation to the Godhead^ we agree with Trinitarians on the one hand,
that Jesus Christ is a divine person, co-eternal with the Father, and was his
agent in the work of Creation. But we agree with Unitarians, on the other
hand, that the Father is greater than he, and that the Holy Spirit is not a
distinct person, but an emanation from the Father and the Son, We believe,
not in the Trinity, nor in the Unity, but in the Duality of the Godhead ; and
that Duality in our view, is imaged in the twofold personality of the first man,
who was made ' male and female.' Gen. 1: 27. As Adam was to Eve, so
is the Father to the Son ; i. e. he is the same in nature, but greater in power
and glory.
2. In relation to the divine decrees^ election^ and reprolation, we agree
Avith Calvinists, that God from the beginning fore-ordained all that comes to
pass in heaven and earth ; and that this fore-ordination includes the election
of the saved and the reprobation of the lost. But we agree with anti-Calvin-^
ists that God did not by decree, choice, or permission, give birth to evil.
We hold that the '
wicked one,' who is the father of all evil, did not originata
I
Vi PREFACE.
in heaven or earth, but existed from eternity ; and that his existence and
wickedness, like the existence and goodness of the Father and the Son, is not
a subject, but an antecedent, of the divine decrees ; that the fore-ordination
of God, so far as it relates to evil events, such as the sin and reprobation of
the wicked, is predicated upon and necessitated by pre-existent evil; and con-
sequently that all the odium which justly attaches to the fore-ordination of such
events, is due to the devil. God fore-ordained the admission of sin and evil
into creation, not arbitrarily, but because the judgment and destruction of
the uncreated evil one required that measure ; he decreed the reprobation of
a part of mankind, because he foreknew that as the seed of the evil one they
would be incorrigible sinners ; and he elected the other part to salvation,
because he foreknew that as the seed of the Son of man they would have
* honest and good hearts.'
3. In relation to human depravity^ we agree with the orthodox that in
consequence of Adam's . transgression, all men are born under the spiritual
power of Satan, or, in scripture language, that the ' whole world iieth in the
wicked one^ (see 1 John 5: 19, in the original,) and that in this sense hu-
man depravity is total. We hold also that a part of mankind are not only
born under the power of the wicked one, but are of his seed, (1 John 3: 12,)
and consequently that their depravity is in every sense total. But on the
other hand, we agree with Pelagians, Socinians, &c., in relation to another
part of mankind, that their depravity is not originally inherent in their indi-
vidual souls, but is superinduced by extraneous spiritual influence, and in this
sense is not total ; that their hearts are so far ' honest and good,' that the
word of God when it comes to them, finds in them an ear of sympathy.
4. In relation to the atonement^ we agree with the orthodox in the general
truth that reconciliation between God and man was effected by the incarnation
and death of the second person of the Godhead. But we differ from them in
regard to the mode of the reconciliation. Their atonement is primarily legal :
ours is primarily qnritual. They say that Christ died, that he might satisfy
the demands of the law in the place of sinners. AVe say that the object of
Christ's death was, 1, that he might perfect himself in all human sympathies,
and so make himself a complete spiritual mediator between God and all men
—the living and the dead ;
(Heb. 2: 17, Rom. 14: 9 ;) 2, that he might,
through death, destroy the spiritual power of the devil, in whom all men, by
nature, are held captives ;
(Heb. 2: 14 ;) 3, that he might (to use a mili-
tary expression) outflank the law which is ' the strength of sin,' by passmg
beyond its precincts into the life of the resurrection, and there presenting
himself to mankind as the rallying point of faith, the head of a spiritual body
which is free from tlie law, because it belongs to a world on which the law
has no claim. Rom. 7: 4. Col. 2: 11—20. The case may be briefly stated
in other words thus : The reconciliation of man to God required that there
PREFACE. 71t
should be, first, a union of the Father to the Mediator ; and secondly, a union
of the Mediator to man. The first union was involved in the divine nature
of the Mediator, and existed from eternity. Of course it only remained to
bring about a union between the Mediator and man. The first step toward
this object was the incarnation of the Mediator. Then it was necessary, first,
that the incarnate Mediator should descend into the lowest depths of human
sufiering, that, by spiritual sympathy, he might reach all men ; secondly, that
he should break the power of the devil by whom men are alienated from the
life of God ; and thirdly, that he should remove those whom he had thus
reached and released, from under the condemning and sin-occasioning power
of the law. All this was necessary to effect a stable junction between the
Mediator and man : and all this was accomphshed by the death of Christ.
This is the atonement. As to the extent of its bearing, it is obvious from its
nature, that it opens the door of salvation to all. The incarnation of Christ
placed him in sympathy with human nature as a whole. His death acquainted
him with all human suffering. His overthrow of Satan's power shattered the
prison house of the race. His resurrection gave an accessible refuge from
the law to all. If any are not saved it is not because the atonement is limited,
hvi because they have no will to avail themselves of it—no ear for the gospel
which proclaims it.
5. In relation to regeneration, we agree with the new school men and legal-
ists generally, that the motives of the law and a change of purpose in the
creature, are necessary preparations to the second birth. But we agree with
the antinomians and spirituahsts generally, that the substance of the second
birth itself, is a change effected only by the Spirit of God—a change,, not of
purpose or acts, but of spiritual condition—a divorce of the human spirit from
the powder of Satan, and a junction with the Spirit of God. We agree with
the Quakers that regeneration is a progressive work, including the outward
cleansing effected by external moral and spiritual influences, and the inward
quickening communicated by the life of Christ through faith.
6. In relation to the holiness of behevcTS, we agree with the most ultra
class of Perfectionists, that whoever is born of God is altogether free from sin.
But we hold that the second birth is not attained till the atonement is spirit-
ually apprehended—till the perfect will of Christ crucified is received into the
heart, his victory over the devil perceived and realized, and his freedom from
law by the resurrection appropriated. This spiritual apprehension of the
atonement, is not attained (ordinarily at least) in the first stages of disciple-
ship.^ Hence we hold with imperfectionists generally, that there was in the
primitive, church, and is now, a class properly called believers or disciples,
(not sons of (Jod,) who, though not free from sin, are yet; in an important
sense followers of Christ, and members of his church.
Vlll PREFACE.
7. In relation to the perseverance of the saints, we agree with Calvlnlsts
that whoever is born of God will infallibly persevere in holiness, unto salva-
tion. But we hold with Methodists that the relation of sinful disciples to God
IS not in its nature perpetual ; that the promises to them are conditional
and that they are liable to fall away to perdition.
8. In relation to the judgment, we agree with the Universalists that the
second coming of Christ took place in connection with the destruction of
Jerusalem. But we differ from them in regard to the nature of that event
believing that Christ hterally came in the spiritual world at the time predicted
in Matt. 24, and sat in. judgment on that, part of mankind, both quick and
dead, who previous to that time had been ripened for the harvest of destiny,
by the influences of the Jewish dispensation and the gospel of Christ and the
apostles. "VYe also differ from Universalists and certain classes of Perfection-
ists, and agree with most other sects, in believing that the final judgment of
miankind is yet future—that it will take place at the end of the ' times of the
Gentiles,' as the judgment of the second coming took place at the end of the
times of the Jews.
9. In relation to future retribution, we agree with Calvinists that they who
sow to the flesh will reap eternal punishment. But we concede to Universal-
ists that, if the Calvinistic theory of the divine origin of the devil, and of the
unnecessitated fore-ordination of human wickedness, were true, the doctrine
of universal salvation would be justly inferred from the benevolence and
omnipotence of God.
'As Bereans, we have sought out these conclusions. To help Bereans, we
have written from time to time ; and to the study of Bereans we now com-
mend this collection ; desiring for it only that it may be a servant of the
Bible, and for its readers that '
with all readiness of mind they may receive
the word, and search the scriptures daily whether these things are so.'
THE BEREAN
§1. THE BIBLE.
As the Bible is tlie record of God's past communications with men, and
especially of his manifestation of himself in Christ and in the primitive church,
so it is the most valuable external conductor of his continued communica-
tions, and his appointed means of making known to all generations the work
of his Son. The continuation of the primitive gospel—that by which the
communication with God, opened by the atonement, is hept open to the world
—is not a church, or a set of ordinances, or a line of successors to the apos-
tles, but it is the Bible. By the ^gible, Christ and the apostles utter their
proclamation across the ages that have past since the destruction of Jerusa-
lem. By it they yet live and speak on earth. Christ promised that '
the
gates of hell should not prevail against his church.' Thus far the only church
which has had a clear right to be called his, is that which was in immediate
personal communication with him, which completed the Bible, and which
passed within the veil at the end of the apostolic age. But let no man say
that the '
gates of hell' have prevailed against that church, even in this
world, till the voice of the New Testament has been silenced—till the Bible
has sunk in obUvion. Papists and Puseyites need not thrust forward their
line of priests to save the promise. It is safe without them.
The Bible, being thus the representative and organ of Christ's kingdom in
the world, has, of course, been the centre of conflict between the powers of
good and evil. Heaven has protected it and cheered it omvard in its mission.
Hell has struggled to destroy its influence and its integrity.
The Jews were God's first secretary, and kept his records till the advent
of Christ. But at that time they revolted against him, and refused to take
charge of the New Testament. He cashiered them, and gave their oflice to
the Gentile church.
The new secretary, when he had grown gi'cat, and put on the crown of
Popery, became the instrument of the same diabolical enmity against the
word of God which had comipted the Jews, and turned the power of his
office against the trust committed to him. He kept the Bible safely, but he
' kept it laid up in a napkin' instead of putting it to the exchangers, and so
proved to be an evil servant. He too was turned out of office. The Refor-
mation gave the Bible into the hands of the Protestant churches ; and at the
1
10 Tnji: ciCLE*
same time the invention of the art of printing scattered it far and Avide, and
made its suppression thenceforth impossible.
It must be acknowlcdp;ed to the honor of the third secretary, that he haa
tlnis far discharged liis office with a good degree of fidcUty. The leading
Protestant churches, whatever else may be laid to their charge, have not es-
sentially mutilated or suppressed the Bible. They have indeed loaded it
with perverting commentaries, and drawn it to and fro in their sectarian dif-
ferences ; but -it may be considered as a fair oftset for this, that they have
cherished a zeal for biblical investigation, and have scattered the word, with-
out comment, over a great part of the earth. We freely and gratefully ac-
knowledge our indebtedness to the influences of the Congregational church,
and to the lal)ors of such men as Stuart and Robinson, for many incentives
and facilities to biblical study.
But the war Avhich Satan of old waged against the testimony of God, has
not ceased. It has assumed a new form. The enemy, finding it hnpossilde
either to exclude a part of the Bible astlie Jews would have done, or to su])-
press the whole, as the Papists attempted to do, has set himself to resist its
invading influences by discrediting its authority. Infidelity, hi various forms,
is, in modern times, the most active assailant of the scriptures.
The infidels of the last century were open and bold in tlicir hostility, giving
no quarter to any part of the Bible, and seeking to destroy it by main force
of scofting and blasphemy. The French Revolution was in part, to say the
least, the fruit of their labor ; and its horrors w^ere such that a strong re-
action against the principles of the blasphemers and in favor of the Bible,
took place. The event and the result may well be described in the language
of the Revelator concerning the two witnesses :
'
There was a great earth-
quake, and the tenth part of the city fell, and in tlie earthrjuake vere slain
of men seven thousand ; and the remnant tvere affri(jhted, and gave glory
to the G-od of heaven.'' Rev. 11: 13.
The hifidel spirit, in its second attack on the Bible, which is now in pro-
gress, has adopted a new and more prudent system of tactics. The fashion
is to discriminate between certain parts of the Bible and others. It has been
found impossible to destroy the entire credit of the sacred writers by summary
scoffing, and the next method is to separate them and cut them up in detail,
by speaking respectfully of some of them to save appearances, while the
war is carried on against the rest. Some of those who are employed by the
spiiit of infidelity in this way, profess to honor the New Testament, but
speak slightingly of the Old ; othei-s adhere to the four gospels, but des})ise
the writings of the apostles. They generally agree in conceding to public
sentiment that Jesus was a great and good man, and that those books of
scripture which relate directly to him have some sort of divine authority
but '
as for this Moses,' say some of them, '
we wot not what has become
of hhn ;'-^as for Paul^^ say others, '
who made him a ruler and a judge
over us V This is the kind of infidelity which, according to our observation,
is creeping in at every opening, especially among '
refonncrs,' and scceders
from the churches. We meet it thus
The credit of the Bible, as a whole, is identified with the credit of Jesus
THE BIELE. 11
Ckrlsfc. The Olil Testament, as it is at this day, existed when he was on
earth, and he endorsed it, by assuming it as the basis of his own reUgious
system. The New Testament is the work of his accredited agents, and ho
is responsilde fn* its sentiments, as the President of the United States is re-
S[)onsible for the sentiments of his official organ. The Bible therefore will
stand or fall with Christ, and Christ will stand or fall with the Bible. Who-
ever discredits one, discredits both. Whoever honors one, honors both.—
Whoever loves Christ, and knows the power of his grace, loves the Bible as
a whole, and knows that it is a vehicle of spiritual light and life. These
propositions we proceed to defend.
L CiiiirsT E.Yi>ORSED THE Old TESTAMENT. It was liis Constant praxjtice
to ([uote the Jewish scriptures as authorities in his discourses. He cited or
referred to all the i)rincipal books in the Old Testanient. The reader may
examine at his leisure the following list of endorsements. Christ cites from
the book of Genesis, in Matt. 19: 4, 5, 24: 37, Luke 17: 29. From IJi-o^
das, in Matt. 5: 21, 27, 38, 38, 15: 4, 19: 18, 19, 22: 32. From Leviticus,
in Matt. 5: 43, John 7: 22. From Namhers, in Matt. 12: 5, John 3: 14.
From Deideronomt./, in Matt. 4: 4, 7, 10, 5: 31, 19: 7, 8, John 8: 17.
From Samml, hi Matt. 12: 3. From Kings, in Matt. 12: 42, Luke 4: 25
2i3, 27. From Chronicles, in Matt. 23: 3o. From Psalms, in Matt. 5: 5,
21: 16, 42, 22: 43, 27: 4(3, John 7: 42, 10: 34, 13: 18, 15: 25. From
Proverbs, hi Luke 14: 8. From Isaiah, in Matt. 13: 14, 15: 8, Mark 9:
44, Luke 4: 18, 19, 22: 37, 23: 30.
'
From Jeremiah, in Matt. 21; 13.
From Daniel, in M;itt. 24: 15. From Ilosea, in Matt. 9: 13, Luke 23: 30.
From Jonah, in Matt. 12: 40, 16: 4. From Micah, in Matt. 10: 35, 36.
From Zechariah, in Matt. 26: 31. From 3£alachi, in Matt. 11: 10, 14.
The following passages, in which the Old Testament is designated by the
various expressions, ''the law and the prophets,^ 'the scriptures,^ &c., show
Christ's ordinary manner of testifying his respect for the sacred books.
Matt. 5: 17, 18. 'Think not that I am come to destroy the law or the pro-
])hct3 : I am not come to destroy, but to fulfil. For verily I say unto you,
till heaven and eartli pass, one jot or one tittle shall in no wise pass from the
law, till all be fulfilled. 7: 12. 'All things wliatsoevcr ye would that men
sliould do to you, do ye even so to them : for this is the law and the prophets.'
22: 37—10. 'Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with
all tliy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first
and great commandment. And the second is like unto it. Thou shalt love
thy neighljor as thyself. On these two commandments hang all the law and
the prophets.' Luke 24: 25—27. '
He said unto them, f<x)ls, and slow
of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken ! Ought not Christ to
have suffered these tilings, and to have entered into his glory? And begin-
ning at Moses, and all tlie prophets, he expoumled unto them in all the scrip-
tures the things concerning himself.' Ver. 44. '
He said unto them. These
are the words which I spake unto you, Avhile I was yet with you, tliat all
things must be fulfilled which were written in the law of Moses, and in the
prophets, and in the Psalini, concerning me.' John 5: 39. '
Search th9
sci'iptares ; for in them ye think yo have eternal fife : and they are they
12 THE BIBLE. '
wlilch testify of mc' Vcr. 46, 47. '
Had ye believed Moses, ye would have
believed me : for he wrote of me. But if ye believe not his writings, how
shall ye believe my words V John 10: 35. ' The scripture cannot be broken.
Christ never sjioke disrespectfully or doubtingly of the Old Q'estament.
He lal)orcd, not to unsettle, but to confirm the confidence of the Jews in
their scrijitures. Some of the precepts of Moses were obviously accommo-
dated to the darkne?:, of the ai;e in which he lived, and Christ changed them.
(Sec Matt, n: 21—18, 19: 8.) But he prefaced his alterations with the
most solemn declai-ation that he '
came not to destroy the law or the prophets,
but to fulfil ;'
(Matt, o: 17 ;) in the same discoui-se he honored the law and
tlic prophets by declaring their essence to be the ' golden rule ;' (Matt. 7:
12 ;) he gave a reason for the imperfection of the Jewish law Avhich implied
no ^^•ong ui Moses; (Matt. 19: 8 ;) and instead of setting himself against
Moses, he appealed to the predictions of Moses for his authority as the ulti-
mate lawgiver. (See John 5: 45—47, and compare Acts 3: 22.) He pre-
pared the way for the abolishment of the ritual institutions of Closes ;
but in
the meantime, till tlie full period allotted them was finished, he scrupulously
respected the authority of those who 'satin Moses' seat.' (See Matt. 23: 2,
and 8: 4.) Finally, the manifestation of Moses and Elijah with him in glory
on the Mount, signally sealed his alliance with the law and the prophets.
From all this it is evident that they who lightly esteem the Old Testament
arc not followci-s or sincere friends of Jesus, however they may think it expe-
dient to say many fine things about him. In fact their position implies one
of two slanderous charges against him, viz : that he was imposed upon by
Moses and the prophets, or that he practised imposition on others.
II. The apostles were the official representatives of christ, and
HIS CREDIT IS IDENTIFIED WITH THE CREDIT OF THEIR AVRITINGS. In the
first place, as Christ wrote nothing himself, all we know about him comes
from his apostles and their assistants. If the four gospels are not true accounts
of Chiist, we have no true account of him—the whole basis of his credit
vanishes, and we are left m the absurdity of honoring a man of whom we
know nothing except that he had not undei-standing or benevolence enough
to make, or provide for making, a true record of his life and principles. Even
the scmi-infidels, therefore, who speak well of Christ, but despise the apostles,
are forced to accept that part of the writings of the apostles which relates
directly to Christ.
Assuming then the tnith of the gospels, we inquire of them what authority
Christ gave the apostles. Their answer is contained in the following passa-
je^cs :
' H( that rcrclvrth you^ receiveth me ; andhe that receiveth ine, recdveth
him that io-nt mp,.' Matt. 10: 40. The parallel passage in Luke is stronger
''Ue thMharcth you, hearcth me; and he that desjnseth you, despiseth me;
and h£ tJuit despineth me, despiseth him that sent me.' 10: 16. These dec-
laratioag were made when Christ first empowered the twelve to preach and
work miracles, but they cover the whole period of the apostles' mission, even
to the Second Coming, as is evident from the whole tenor of the 10th of
JIattliew, and especially from the 23d verse. A good reason for the honor
thus pat upon them, is given in vcr. 19, 20—' But when they deliver you up,
THE BIBLE. a^
take no thoiiglit how or what yc shall speak ; for it shall be f^ivcii you in tliafc
same hour what ye shall speak. For it is not ye that speak, hut the Spirit
of your Father that speaketh in you.^ If the Spirit of the Father sp)oke in
them it is reasonable to conclude that it also wrote by them. The penalty
for despising their words is stated in ver. 14, 15,—' Whosoever shall not
receive you, nor hear your words, when ye depart out of that house or city,
shake off the dust of your feet. Verily I say unto you, it shall be more
tolerable for the land of Sodom and Gomorrah in the day of judgment, than
for that city.' This tremendous penalty will certainly take effect on those
Avho despise their written word. Christ, in his last conversation with the
apostles, promised that the Spirit of truth should come upon them and should
'
teach them all things and bring all things to their remembrance, which he
had said to them,' and '
lead them into all truth.' He also promised that
they should do the works which he did, and even greater. In his final pray-
er for them he said
—'/ have manifested thy 7iame unto the men which thou
gavest me out of the world: thine they were, and thou gavest them me; and
they have kept thy word. Now they have known that all things whatsoever
thou hast given me, are of thee. For I have given unto them the words
which thou gavest me ; and they have received them 1 have given
them thy word; and the world hath hated them, because they are not of the
world, even as I am not of the world.' John 17: 6—8, 14. Thus having
secured their qualification to be his substitutes, he declares the nature of
their mission in these emphatic words : ''As thou hast sent me into the ivorld^
even so have I also sent them into theivorld.'* Ver. 18. So again after he
had risen from the dead, he said to them—'Peace he unto you : as my Fa-
ther hath sent me, even so send 1 you. And ivhen he had said this, he
breathed on them, and saitJi unto them, Receive ye the Holy Ghost. Whose
soever sins ye remit, they are remitted unto them ; and whose soever sins ye
retain, they are retained.'' John 20: 21—23.
In the commission which Christ gave his apostles just before his ascension,
he made them his plenipotentiaries, thus :
'
Go ye into all the world, and
preach the gospel to every creature. Hethatbelieveth, and is baptized, shall
be saved; but lie that believeth not, shall he damned. And these signs shall
follow them that believe : m my name shall they cast out devils ; they shall
speak with new tongues ; they shall take up sei'pents ; and if they drink any
deadly thing, it shall not hurt them ; they shall lay hands on the sick, and
they shall recover. So then after the Lord liad spoken unto them, he w^is
received up into heaven, and sat on the right hand of God. And they went
forth, and preached everywhere, the Lord working with them, and confirm-
ing the word with signs following.' Mark 16: 15—20.
Let the reader further consider the follomng passages :
'
I say unto thee,
that thou art Peter ; and upon this rock I will build my church ; and the
gates of hell shall not prevail against it. And I will give unto thee the keys
of the kingdom of heaven ; and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth, shall be
loosed in heaven.' Matt. 16: 18, 19. '
Jesas said unto them. Verily I say
unto you, that ye which have followed me, in the regeneration, when the Son
of man shall sit in the throne of his glory, ye also shall sit upon twchc thrones,
14 TlIK lilBLE.
jud.^in;,' the twelve tn}>es of Israel/ 10: 28. ' I appoint unto you a kingdom,
a-i mv Fatlior hatli a])iw»iiite(l miUi mc : that ye may cat and drink at my ta^
hie in mv kingdom, and sit on thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel.'
Luke 22: '2\K '10. Comiiarc Kph. 2: 20, and Rev. 21: 14.
In all this there is ahundant evidence that Christ endorsed the doings, say-
ings and writings of the apostles in advance. Every gift of the Spirit whicli
they afterward received, and every miracle which they performed, renewed
Ills en<lorsement. His credit is inseparable from theirs.
It may be said tliat Paid, not being one of the original twelve, did not
come under this endoi-sement. We reply, Paul professed to have scon Jesus
Christ in the spiritual woiid, and to have received from him a plenary apos-
tolic connnission ; and for the truth of his profession we have, besides the
assurance arising from his own character as a witness, two sufhcient vouchers,^
viz., the numerous and miglity miracles which he wrought in the name of
Jesus, and the recoixled acknowledgment of Peter. By this latter voucher
he is fully brought in with the other apostles under the endorsement of Christ.
Peter wiis the fii-st officer in the cabinet of Christ ; and he not only acknow-
ledged PauPs commission as an apostle co-ordinate with himself, (see Gal.
2: 9,) but expressly recognized his epistles as part of the word of God.
See 2 Pet. 3:16.
The New Testament is just what we might expect it to be, on the suppo-
sition that Chnst delegated to his officei-s authority to expound his principles
and works to the world. In order to the full exhibition of Christianity it was
necessary that there should be, 1, a history of the life of Christ ; 2, a sketch
of what followed his resurrection, viz., the advent of the Spirit and the first
progress of his kingdom under the administration of his heutenants ; 3, a
systematic ex])osition of the theory of redemption founded on the death and
resurrection of Christ ; 4, a code of morality, with suitable injunctions and
warnings against erroi-s ; 5, an exhibition of the mature results of Christian
faith ; G, a sketch of the futurity of Christ's administration. The first we
have in the evangelists ; the second, hi the book of Acts ; the third, in the
epistles of Paul ; the fourth, in the whole New Testament ; the fifth, in the
1st epistle of John ; and the sixth, hi the book of Revelations. If Christ
did not ])rovide f<jr an authentic and permanent expose of his kingdom, of this
Icind, it is impossible to defend his wisdom or goodness. If he did, we have
that crpose in the New Testament ; for it can be found no where else.
If a deist will admit that Jesus was a wise and good man, ho can be com-
pelled to ailmit that the New TesUiment was written by inspiration. For
1. A wise and good man, in undertiiking the reformation of mankhid, would
fin*t of all t{ike pains to insure a correct and incorruptible record of his life
and principles. 2. But Jesus did not personally/ make any record of the
kind.^ He must therefore have had an assurance that his followers would be
//itallfied for the task. 3. But his followers, as iminsjnred men, were 7iot
-qualified, and he as a wine man must have known it. 4. Therefore his assu-
rance that they would be <iu;dified, must have been an assurance that they
would be insiplrcd. Or the argument may be stated in another form, thus :
1. A wise and good man, undcrtakuig the reformation of mankind, would
TUB BIBLE. 15
Buffer no record of his principles to be pu])lislicd \Nith his im])lic(l pennission
and aiitliority, unless he had himself superintended the U'ritlnij of it. 2. But
the New Testament was published by his permission and autliority, implied
in the fact that it was published by his, representatives, and that he made no
other record of his principles. 3. Therefore he must have superintended the
writing of the New Testament ; and as he was not visibly present at the
writing of it, he must have superintended it by inspiration.
The connection between Christ and the apostles is a vital one, and cannot
be severed without breaking the line of communication between God and man.
If he is the head, they are the neck of that spiritual body which is the ve-
hicle of salvation to the world. A blow aimed at the neck is as deadly to
the body as one aimed at the head. If he '
sent them even as the Father
sent him,' their work was as necessary as his ; and contempt of their wri-
tings is as antichristian as contempt of his words. Accordingly the apostle
John sets forth a twofold test of the spirit of antichrist. '
Beloved,' says he,
' believe not every spirit, but try the spirits whether they be of God ; because
many false prophets are gone out into the world. Hereby know ye the spirit
of God ; ever^ spirit that confesseth that Jesus Christ is come in the fleshy
is of God ; and every spirit that confesseth not that Jesus Christ is come in
the fleshy is not of God. [This is the first criterion, and it relates to the
first link in the chain of union between God and man. The apostle proceeds,]
And this is that spirit of antichrist, whereof ye have heard that it should
come ; and even now already is it in the world. Ye are of God, Uttle chil-
dren, and have overcome them ; because greater is he that is in you than he
that is in the world. They are of the world ; therefore speak they of the
world, and the world heareth them. We are of God : he that knotveth God,
heareth vs ; he that is not of God, heareth not us : hereby hnoiv zue the sp>irit
of truth and the spirit of error."* Here is the second criterion, relating to
the second link of the chain. Antichrist attacks Christianity on two vital
points. He strikes first at Christ's incarnation ; and secondly, at the credit
of the apostles. The first point most needed defense in the primitive age ;
for it was long before the adversary allowed the advent of the Son of God to
to become a fixed fact. The principal conflict at the present day seems to
be gathering about the second point. The incarnation of Christ has estab-
lished itself in popular belief; but it is quite a fashionable and spreading cus-
tom to doubt and deny the authority of Christ's lieutenants.
It appears from the preceding argument, that the Bible as a w^hole is un-
der the protection of Christ's endorsement, and can only be assailed by as-
sailing him. The books of the Old and New Testaments are not to bear the
brunt of the infidel onset, but Christ who stands in the midst of them,
staking his credit for theirs, and challenging the hosts of hell to strike him,
if they wish to strike them. They who sneer at Moses and Paul, while they
pretend to honor Christ, will find, when they understand the relation which
Christ bears to Moses and Paul, that they have mistaken their policy.
Concessions in favor of Christ and the four gospels, give behevers a stand-
point, from which they can sally both ways, and rout with case and certainty
all adversaries both of the Old and New Testaments. The semi-infidels may
16 INFIDELITY AMOXG REFORMERS.
'
«3 well return, first as last, to the war-cry of A^oltairc 'Crush tJienrctchP
—for they can novor crush any part of the Bible-phalanx till they crush
Christ.
§ 2. INFIDELITY AMONG REFORMERS.
The spirit of infideUty, when it works under the cover of reform, and
with professions of respect for some portions of the Bible, is more captiva-
ting and dangerous than when it stands forth in honest nakedness. Thus
disguised, it infects not merely open despisers of religion, but many who
were once sober and devout. Having given some attention to this particular
disease, we propose to present our views of its nature, and of its rise and
progi-ess among reformers in this country.
I. The nature of the disease. Infidelity in general, is a state of
mind, in which the moral affection, called by phrenologists, Veneration, is
overborne and neutralized by some stronger aifection. As '
the fear of the
Lord is the beginning of wisdom,' so casting off the fear of the Lord is the
beginning of skeptical folly. Reverence for God is the protecting rampart
of the Bible. "Whoever fears his Maker will handle carefully the book which
professes to be his word, and search diligently, before he rejects it. This
reverent cautiousness is all that the Bible or its Author demands from those
who have not yet ascertained its truth by rational investigation. The Bible
asks no favors of mere marvelousness. Infidels will be condemned in the
day of account, not for refusing to swalloAV all the absurd marvels which
priestcraft offered them, nor even for hesitating to believe all the contents of
the Bible : but because they had not humility and reverence enough to sus-
pend judgment until they had given the message of God a fair trial ; because
they ' spoke evil of things which they understood not ;'
because they Avould
not take the trouble to discriminate between a true revelation and the im-
postures of fanatics, but condemned the innocent with the guilty, in lynch-
law recklessness.
Probably in most cases of infidelity. Veneration is overborne by Self-esteem
in combination with Causality and Combativeness. Men are too proud and
confident in the sufficiency of their reason, to give the Bible a reverent ex-
amination. But in the particular form of the disease of which w^e are
treating, there is reason to believe that Bc7ievolence, in many cases, is the
usurping affection which prostrates Veneration. The enthusiasm of refonn
which has burst forth within a few years, has made many exceedingly fierce
for doing good. Their zeal has been too fervent to wait on the slow move-
ments, by which God and the Bible are working out redemption for man.
They have devised more summary processes ; and then, by little and Httle,
casting off conservative reverence, they have learned at last to trample on
the Bible boldly, whenever they conceive that it crosses the path of their
favorite enterprises for human improvement.
INFIDELITY AMONG REFORMERS. ' 17
Persons wlio have been beguiled into this course, may flatter themselves
that a sentiment so lovely and virtuous as benevolence, cannot lead to any
great mischief ; that the fervor of their philanthropy will excuse them for
stifling veneration, and thrusting aside the word of God. But we are sure
that any amount of good which they can do without the Bible, will be ac-
counted in the day of judgment as but dust in the balance, against the mis-
chief effected by discrediting God's main instrument of redemption. We are
sure that nothing can excuse ignorance or forgetfulness of the truth that the
fear of the Lord is a higher duty than philanthropy ; that the rights of God
are immeasurably superior to *
human rights.' Incontinent, misdirected be-
nevolence is not less—perhaps more—destructive in its ultimate efiects, than
any lust of human nature. And it must be considered, that the evil of any
usurpation is incurable in proportion to the apparent virtue, and consequent
popularity of the usurper.
^
Let pohtical and religious Jacobins rail at the abuses of subordination, with
•which this priest-and-king-ridden world abounds, as they may; they can never
erase the inscription which the finger of God has written on the scroll of
nature, as well as revelation ; assigning the throne of all human aflections to
Veneration. The organ of that sentiment is literally '
the cro^vn of the head'
'
—the top-stone of the cerebral temple—the center, around w^hich all the
other moral affections cluster as constituents. Accordingly, reverence for '^
parents is the beauty of childhood ; and the fear of the Lord is the glory of
manhood. The dethronement of Veneration, therefore, can never be a
trivial disorder, even though Benevolence heads the msurrection.
II. The rise and progress of infidelity among modern reformers.
Phrenologists say (we think with reason) that the atmosphere of the repub-
lican principles and leveling tendencies of this country, is unfavorable to the
due development of Veneration. A people whose pohtical and social insti-
tutions constantly teach them that independence is their chief glory, and
that subordination is disgrace, will naturally have but a stinted growth of -
reverence toward man ; and it would be strange if the deficiency did not
extend, in some degree, to the kindred and almost identical sentmient of
reverence toward God. Bigoted democrats certainly can have but little
B3rmpathy with the pruiciples of that kingdom described and predicted by
the Bible, in which one man (viz., Jesus Christ) is appointed, not by the
people, but by God, the absolute monarch of all ; and claims as his first
tribute from all his subjects, unconditional loyalty and subordination.
The divisions of Protestant Christendom have generated another influence,
tenduig especially to weaken reverence for the Bible. As sect after sect has
arisen, conflicting commentaries have been multiplied, until men have accus-
tomed themselves to regard the Bible, not as an authoritative judge of con-
troversy, but as a pliable witness that may be brought by a skillful lawyer to
favor any side of any question. Such a witness cannot be held in much re-
spect.
Such were the predisposing influences in operation, when the enthusiasm
of reform which has characterized the last sixteen years, commenced *its ca-
reer. In the Temperance cause, benevolence first essayed the usurping
2
W tifViDBLitX AMO^fQ ilEf'OIlMEllS'.
J)rocc53, by wliich veneration has since been subverted. In hiirlrying' on ih^
triumphs of total abstinence, it was found necessary to remove certain ob^
structions placed in the way by the Bible. These obstructions might have
been removed without injiny to' the Bible, if the leaders in the cause had
choseti to defend total abstinence as an expedient, not of intrinsic and per-
manent cbligation, but adapted to the exigency of the times, and adopted on
the principle which justifies fastmg, and which Paul sanctioned when he said,
* If meat make ray brother to offend, I will not eat meat w bile the world
standoth.' Birt to press the BiMe into the service of total abstinence, by
denying that the writers of the Old and New Testaments, with Jesus Christ
at their head, countenanced the drinking of wine ; or by assei-ting that Bible
wines were not intoxicating, m a violence which no man, under the influence
of due respect for the Bible, w^ould undertake. The language of such art
attempt is
—' The Bible is too sacred to be contradicted ; but we will evade
its force by dexterous colnmentary.^ Yet this attempt was made ; and that
too, by such men as Stuart, Beecher, and Hewitt. The '
mighty men' of
the popular churches planted the noxious genn, which, in the apostate and
blaspheming ultraists of later time^f, has 'gone to seed.^
Next came Anti-slavery. The nature of this enterprise, harmonizing and
co-opetating with the liberty-spirit of our political institutions, inevitably in-
creased the atmospheric predisposition to me'rge veneration in benevolence.
It was soon found in this as in the Temperance cause, that the Bible stood
hi the way of the extreme ttltraism^ sugge^ed by enthusiastic zeal. The
doctrine that slave-holding is neceggarily sinful, and that immediate abolition
B in all cases a matter of religious obligation, coitld not be maintained without
forcing a new construction on many things in the writings of Moses and Paul.
Theodore D. Weld had learned in the Temperance service the importance
of wresting the Bible out of the hands of the adversaries of reform. With
lawyer-Hke shrewdness, in his '
Bible Argumelit' against slavery he cross^
questioned the opposing witness, till he apparently made that witness his
Own. As it was the favorite position of Temperance men that Bible-wines
tverd not intoxicating, so Weld boldly averred and plausibly proved that
!Bible-fllayery was not slavery. The argument w^as as good in one case as in
the other ; and no better. Thus the Bible was the second time placed oti
the rack of reform, and benevolence prevailed over veneration.
* Woman's Rights' was the next topic of agitation. In both the previous
cases, the language of the Bible adverse to the views of the reformers, had
been bo far dubious, as to admit of favorable construction ; and veneration
had not yet been so prostrated, a^ to permit a direct attack. The collisioJi
was oblique ; and the Bible, though dishonored, was not mutilated. But now
the time had come for open hostilities. Many influences conspired to bring
on this issue* A new baptism of the spirit of irreverence had come upon
the reformers, by the accession to their ranks of those Perfectionists who had
learned from T. R. Gates to blaspheme Paul. The Quaker, Unitarian, Uni-
versalist and Transcendental elements in the spiritual compound engaged in
the reforming enterprises, had begun to prevail against the more conserva-
tivo influencoa of orthodoxy : and the '
Evangelicals' were preparing to with-
INFIDELITY AMONG REFORMERS. 19
draw. Above all it was manifest, that tke theory of Woman's Rights which
^affirmed the entire equality of the sexes, and repudiated all subordination of
woman to man, was in point-blank antagonism to tlie testimony of Paul.
There was no possibility of compromise or evasion. In tliis crisis the Misses
Grimke, who led the van of the Woman's Rights reform, declared indepen-
dence of the authority of Paul. Thus a third public injury was inflicted on
the Bible by the spirit of reform. And it is worthy of notice that as T, D.
Weld was accessory to the first, and the principal actor in the second, «o he
made himself accessory to the third, by publicly connecting himself—and
that, too, in avowed allegiance to the theory of the equality of the sexes
with Angelina Grimke.
. Finally, Non-resistance became the prominent subject of hen«volent ^en-
thusiasm. And once more the Bible stood in the way. The wars of Moses,
and much of the morality of the Old Testament, seemed hideously repugnant
to the ultra peace-principles. Some were prudent and patient enough to for-
bear railing, and seek a reconciliation of the morality of the Old Testament
with that of the New, But others had chafed against the Bible in the previ-
ous reforms, till they were irritated, and veneration gave place to oombative-
ness. When the angel of the Lord with a drawn sword had confronted Balaam
three times, and his ass had crushed his foot against the wall, the prophet**
anger was kindled. Moses was the object of hostility in this reform, as Paul
had been in its predecessor. Thus the bulwarks of the Old ^nd New Testa-
ments were assailed.
The last of the series of Radical Conventions which w^re held in Boston ia
1841—2, gave utterance to the growing spiiit of infideUty. The attempt
was made to place the Bible in the same category mth the Sabbath, Church,
and Ministry ; and although the movement was apparently a failure, many
were emboldened in their irreverence. Since then, a considerable class have
gradually receded from their allegiance to the Bible, until they now lack
little or nothing of the ordinary characteristics of downright infidehty.
We believe this is a true account of the disorder now prevailing among
ultraists ; and we present It with unceremonious and perhaps offensive plain-
ness ; not because we are opposed to the objects of the several reforms con-
cerned—for all our predilections are in their favor ; nor because we bear any
malice against such men as T. D. Weld—for we have long been accustomed
to regard him with respect, and even affection ; but because we reverence
God more than all ultraisms and ultraists together, and are determined, at
all hazards, so far as in us lies, to expose the machinations of the devil agaijist
the Bible,
^ii^^-^s;
§ 3. THE MORAL CHARACTER OF UNBELIEF.
The following remark, taken from an article which was published in the
Herald of Freedom in 1843, (N. P. Rogers, editor,) presents one of thd
most popular apologies current among unbeHevers :
•'The Clergy charg-e infidelity upon abolitionists. I, for one, reply that I regard it as
no accusation. If it were true, it is not any lliinif that calls for defense, or needs any
vindication. It is neither afault nor a virtue, in itself. Belief or disbelief are, of course,
mere results of evidence, or of the lack of it."
The avowal of a sentiment so gi'ossly unscriptural, and awfi-scriptural, as
that contained in the sentences which we have italicized, is good evidence
that the writer is actually an infidel of the most foolish sort. His doctrine,
if it w^ere true, would utterly stultify and condemn Jesus Chiist. If ' belief
or disbelief are mere results of evidence, or of the lack of it,' having no
moral meiit or demerit, Christ miserably abused his disciples when he ' tip-
braided them with their unbelief and hardness of heart, because they believed
not them which had seen him after he was risen.'' Mark 16: 14. According
to Mr. Rogers, they might justly have repelled these upbraidings, and as-
gerted their innocence, on the ground that their disbelief of the report of
Christ's resurrection was an inevitable misfortune—the ' mere result of the
lack of evidence !' Nothing in all the records of the evangehsts stands out
in bolder prominence, than the truth that Christ treated unbelief as the worst
of moral abominations, and offered all the premiums of his administration in
this world and the world to come to those who should believe in his mission
and doctrine. '
Go ye (said he to his disciples) into all the world, and preach
the gospel to every creature : he that believeth [that gospel] shall be saved
hut he that believeth not shall be damned.'' Mark 16: 15, 16. Here is sal-
vation and damnation suspended on acts of the mind, which Mr. Rogers says
are neither '
faults nor virtues,' but mere mechanical effects of evidence, or
the lack of it ! It is needless to multiply citations. Every one who is fa-
miliar "with the Bible can see without much study, that Mr. Rogers' principle
aims a blow at the heart of Christianity. We are safe in assuming that he
is an infidel in the worst sense of the Avord. Having then to deal with one
who does not receive the Bible as a judge of controversy, but '
tramples it
under his feet' (as he says in another article of the same paper) if it crosses
his notions of right and wrong, we will leave the Bible argument, and try
the dogma which he has propounded, in the court of common sense.
Mr. Rogers' position obviously is, that praise and blame attach only to acts
that are voluntary^ and that belief and disbelief are involuntary—the '
meke
results of evidence or of the lack of it,' and of course, are not deserving of
praise or blame. On the other hand, our position is, that behef and disbeUef
are, in many cases, voluntary. We do not say that there are not cases in
which evidence compels belief. In the clear simpUcity of mathematics, or
in the spiritual brightness of the eternal world, there may be such a thing as
involuntary belief. But in such a world as this, where evidence is often
MORAL CIIAEACTER OF UNBELIEF. ^1^. 21
deficient, or apparently contradictory, and especially in subjects so deep, and
to worldly eyes so cloudy, as those of which the Bible treats, men have an
opportunity, nay, are compelled to exercise their wills in forming their opin-
ions.
We will advert particularly to only one of the many ways in which volition
is concerned in belief and disbelief. Evidence tliat is actually conclusive,
does not necessarily insure that the conclusion will he draum in the mind of
him to whom that evidence is presented. A man may take two steps in a
sound syllogism, and yet refuse to take the third. For example, suppose it
is demonstrated to a slaveholder, first, that '
all men are created free and
equal ;'
and secondly, that negroes are men ; the necessary conclusion from
these premises, if any conclusion is draw7i^ is, that negroes are of right
free and equal with the Avhites. But the drawing of this conclusion is an
act of the mind, separate from and independent of the perception of the
premises on which it is founded, and the slaveholder has the power to stop
the action of his mind even at the point where the evidence is complete and
admitted, and turn from that evidence to some more agreeable subject, with-
out ever drawing the conclusion. In such a case (and ten thousand such
cases occur daily) the unbelief of the man in respect to the rightful freedom
and equality of negroes will remain—not for lack of evidence, but because
he voluntarihj refused to look beyond the evidence to the truth evinced.
The general principle which we affirm, is, that in all cases Avhere truth is
reached, not by instantaneous clairvoyance, but by a seiies of steps, man has
the power of arresting his mind at any stage of the process ; and belief is not
the mere inevitable result of evidence perceived, but depends on a continuity
of thought which he has power to choose or refuse. The lack of this conti-
nuity of thought, which we may call unfaithfulness of mind, is a very gen-
eral cause of unbelief in respect to the advanced truths which are propounded
from time to time in science, philanthropy and religion. Multitudes habit-
ually act as a judge would do, who, after hearing the evidence in a suit, should
dismiss the case without judgment.
Universal consciousness is an unanswerable witness to the fact, that the
transition from evidence to conclusion—' the making up of the mind'—in a
word, the act of believing, is in many cases heroically voluntary. When
apparent self-interest clashes with the conclusion to be formed, however per-
emptory may be the evidence, it requires effort, self-denial, courage to be-
lieve. No man has ever made any valuable progress in wisdom, who has
not again and again summoned all the energies of his soul to the work of
decisive judgment upon evidence. And when a conclusion has been once
attained by the clearest demonstration, if it is unfamiliar and offensive, or
if the evidence of it is concatenated, and not easily perceivable, every body
knows that it costs many a struggle of the will to keep it in the mind, and
make it a permanent element of thought and action.
The Bible is not alone in making belief and unbehef the criterion of char*
acter and destiny. The grand difference between man and man in the esti-
mation of human society, lies in the different degrees of wisdom in worldly
matters which each possesses ; and wisdom is the result of faithfully and
v-"'
22 HORAL CHARACTER OF UNBELIEF. t^
heroically pursuing evidence to its conclusions : indeed, it is but another
name for the belief of truth. Common sense, the world over, gives its high-
est praise and rewards to mental faithfulness, and awards blame and con-
tempt to mental cowardice and imbecility. And in this matter abolitionists
are by no means behind the rest of the world. They have a creed,—^not
religious, but social,—a creed on the subject of slavery ; and there is not a
church or clergy in the world who blame unbehef and persecute heresy (with
the tongue and pen) more unsparingly than the church and clergy of aboli-
tionism.
Does N. P. Rogers account the imperviousness of the South to antislavery
sentiments, its unbelief in respect to the expediency of immediate abolition,
the 'mere result of the lack of evidence'? Or does he think there is no
^ fault' in the belief of the popular clergy that he and his compeers are evil
doers ? If so, his treatment of them strangely belies his opinions.
We allude thus to abohtionists, not in the way of reproach, but that we
may carry our appeal against the dogma of Mr. Rogers in regard to the in-
different nature of belief and unbelief, into his and their own consciousness.
The truth is, when a man is certain that he has laid hold of a new and im-
portant principle in any department of truth, it is right and good that he
should make it a part of his '
creed,' and endeavor to promulgate it ; and
when he has established his position by substantial proof in the sight of men,
he has a right to their belief, and may justly censure them if they believe
not. Abolitionists know that there is something more and worse than the
'*mere lack of evidence' at the bottom of Southern unbelief; and they are
right in blaming it. Health Reformers, Phrenologists, Neurologists, the
advocates of every new system of truth, hnow that there is something wrong
in the cold repellant obtuseness with which the world meets their efforts to
enlighten it. So also, as believers in the divine origin of the Bible, and of
the doctrines which it teaches, we hnow (Mr. Rogers' dictum to the con-
trary notwithstanding) that infidelity is the result of something more and
worse than *
mere lack of evidence'—that there is voluntary mental unfaith-
fulness, moral perverseness of the most radical and pernicious kind, where
the Son of God is denied.
The gospel of Jesus Ohrist is peculiarly a system of central truth. It is
the constitution of that universal government in which the principles of all
other systems, whether scientific or moral, are but by-laws. It relates to
the soul and to eternal existence. It is properly called the truth, in dis-
tinction from mere truth in general. Such a system ought to be investigated
first of all, and with principal interest and perseverance by every rational
being. Whoever has thus investigated it, has found evidence enough of its
truthfulness and divinity ; and to such a person, the fact that a man is an
infidel, is sufficient proof that he is not a central thinker, not a constitivtional
patriot—that he has never turned his mind with steady,* persevering gaze,
toward the spiritual, the infinite, the eternal. In other words, believers
know that infidelity is the offspring and evidence of superficiality. An infidel
teacher is a quack in matters of infinite moment ; of course he is infinitely
mischievous. 31 ^ro unavoidable ignorance is a misfortune; but superfi-
MOKAt CHARACTBR OP UNBELIEF. ^^
Ciality and quackery are universally condemned as voluntary oifensesv
If we go back of supei-ficiality, we find all its antecedents of a voluntary^
blamable nature. Mental laziness is a very common cause of superficial
thinking. It is easier to employ the mind about matters on the surface of
existence, and give up one's self to impressions from things visible, than to
seek wisdom in the far depths of spiritual, central truth. Sensualky is an-
other cause of superficiality. The same inversion of right order which lead*
men to attend more to the enjoyments of their bodies than of their souls,
disposes them also to employ their thoughts about things physical rather than
things spiritual ; and propels them as by centrifugal force, evermore farther
and farther from the internal light of the universe toward the darkness of
mere materialism. Worldliness, which is only a wiser kind of sensuality,
i«, we may safely say, always in some form at the bottom of that inattention
and aversion to things spiritual and infinite, which is the ground of all infi-
delity. '
The cares of this world, and the deceitfulness of riches, and the
lusts of other things, entering in, choke the \rord.' A mind full of worldly
business of any kind has no time, and can have no taste for the investigation
of central truth ; and the most convenient refuge for it, is infidelity.
These remarks may be applied to a larger class than that of avowed infi-
dels. A lazy-minded, sensual, worldly '
Christian,' will as certainly be su-
perficial, and centrifugal in his habits of mind, as the open blasphemer of
the Bible. He has within him all the essential elements of infidelity, and is
actually an mfidel with reference to the internal truths of the Bible ; thougla
not with reference to the Bible itself. We might properly extend the mean-
ing of the word infidel to all who turn away from the spiritual knowledge of
God and his Son; and then divide them into two classes—the pro-Bible and
the anti-Bible infidels. The gi-oundAvork of character is the same in both ;
viz., unfaithfulness and Superficiality of mind, originating in laziness, sensu-
ality and worldliness.
The infidelity which has infested abolition and other kindred reforms, can
be traced beyond 'mere lack of evidence.' Though it is apparently pecu-
liar, we have no hesitation in attributing it to the same general causes, as in
other cases. If the charge of laziness and sensuality, as the ground of su-
perficiality of mind, may be denied, with reference to the Reformers, still
We affirm that they are drawn away from central truth by worldliness.—
Their worldliness, it is true, is of a peculiar—we might say of a very subli-
mated sort. It is not the *
deceitfulness of riches,' nor the '
cares of this
world,' in the usual sense of the expression, which chokes the word in them
but it is the '
lust of other things' than the spiritual knowledge of God,
The objects which they have set their hearts upon, viz., the abolition of
slavery and war, physical and social reform, are as truly worldly objects as
Wealth or political power. They relate primarily to the bodies and temporal
interests of men. The fact that they are somewhat nobler objects than those
which ordinary worldhngs seek, cannot redeem them from the charge we
bring against them. They are not within the circle of central, constitutional
truth. They are not the leading objects of the Bible. A man may seek
them all without ever thinkmg of God, or of his Son, of the spiritual world,
24 HARMONY OF MOSES AND CHRIST. ^.
or of eternity. [Moreover thoy are objects which, when pursued In a spirit
of ultraism, sucli as abounds among modern reformers, lead naturally and
almost necessarily to irritatin<; collisions with the Bible, resulting in gTadual
abandonment of it, and finall y^ in enmity against it. The infidelity or semi-
infidelity of modern reformei*s, as we have shown in the preceding article,
is the result of lustful benevokiuce, the love of liberty as the summum honumy
and lack of veneration,—not of the ' mere lack of evidence.*
§ 4. THE HARMONY OF MOSES AND CHRIST.
The most plausible of all the usual allegations against the Bible, is, that
the New Testament contradicts the Old. The ultra-benevolent semi-infidels
are fond of arraj^ng the principles of Christ against those of Moses. We
will examine one of the worst of the stumbling blocks thus laid in the way of
Bible-believers, as a specimen of the whole.
Moses said —" If men strive, and hurt a woman with child, so that her fruit depart
from her; and yet no mischief follow ; he shall he surely punished, according- as tlie
woman's husband shall lay upon him ; and he shall pay as the judges determine. And
if any mischief follow, then thou shalt give life for life, eye for eye, tooth for tooth,
hand for hand, foot for foot, burning for burning, wound for wound, strips for stripe."
Exodus 21: 22-25.
Christ said —" Ye have heard that it hath been said. An eye for an eye, and a tooth
for a tooth : but I say unto you, that ye resist not evil ; but whosoever shall smite thee
on thy right cheek, turn to him the other also. And if any man will sue thee at the
law, and take away thy coat, let him have thy cloak also." Matt. 5: 38-40.
The scorner says that in one of these passages Jesus Christ forbade what
Moses commanded in the other, and thereby proved his infidelity to a portion
of the Bible and showed conclusively that he did not consider it the word of
-God, Let us see if this is true.
1. The mere language which Christ uses in substituting his rule for Moses'
in this case, indicates no condemnation or disrespect of Moses' rule. For in
the context immediately preceding he uses the same forai of speech in regard
to several precepts of the decalogue —' Ye have heard that it was said by
them of old time. Thou shalt not kill,' &c. Ver. 21. '
Ye have heard that
it was said by them of old time, Thou shalt not commit adultery,' &c. Ver. 27.
No one will argue against the righteousness or the divinity of the Mosaic
precepts against murder and adultery, because Christ deemed them insuffi-
cient for the purposes of his spiritual kingdom, and substituted other rules
in their place. He supplanted them, not because they were evil in them-
:8elves, but because the nature of his dispensation called for larger principles,
^he same may be said of his dealing with Exodus 21: 24, for aught that
appears in his language to the contrary.
2. Christ constantly taught that Grod's ultimate reckoning with men will
proceed according to Moses' rule—'An eye for an eye, and a tooth for a
tooth.' Let us glance at som'B of his insti-uctions on this point. ' The Son
HARMONY OF MOSES AND CHRIST. 25
of man ghall come m the glory of his Father, with hig angels, and tTien he
shall reward every man according to Ms worJcs.^ Matt. 16: 27. "What is
here meant bj '
rewarding every man according to Ids works,' may be seen
by consulting such passages as Matt. 13: 41—43, 25: 31—46. The rule
of judgment according to these passages, is that they who work evil shall be
rewarded with destruction ; and that is equivalent to the rule of Moses. In
the parable of the cruel creditor, (Matt. 18: 23—35,) the circumstances
stated are these : A king, on the entreaty of his servant, forgave him his
debt. The servant, having an account against a fellow servant in similar
circumstances, would not forgive him, but cast him into prison. The king,
being informed of the fact, called the oppressor to account, and dehvered
him to the tormentors. Thereupon Christ says, 'So likewise shall my heav-
enly Father do also unto you^ if ye from your hearts forgive not every one
his brother their trespasses ;' which is as much as to say, they that show no
mercy shall have no mercy, but shall be dealt with according to the rule
'An eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth. Even in the sermon on the
mount—the very discourse in which the Mosaic rule of retribution is dis-
placed,—Christ points his disciples forward to a time when that rule shall be
enforced. 'With what judgment ye judge^^ he say&, 'ye shall he judged;-
and with what ineasure ye mete, it shall be measured to you again.^ Matt.
7: 2. This is as strong as if he had said in so many words—^God will reckon
with you at last by Moses' rule. An eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth.'
It appears therefore that if there is any inherent wmng in the principle of
exact retribution, Christ is as deeply imphcated in the guilt of approving
and promulgating it as Moses, and is moreover guilty of fastening the wrong
upon God. We have then, not merely Christ pitted agamst Moses, but
Christ against Christ. We need not go out of the book of Matthew—not
even out of the sermon on the mount—to convict the Bible ofself-antagonism,
if there is any real antagonism between Matthew 5: 38—40 and Exodus 21:
22—25. This is carrying the matter too far.
3. The simple truth about the matter is, that the relation between Moses'
rule and Christ's, is Just the relation between justice and mercy, and both
are good and worthy of God, though they are appropriate to different times
and different circumstances. The rule—'An eye for an eye and a tooth for
a tooth'—is the rule of exact justice. Common sense approves of it. It is
the counterpart of the golden rule—' Whatsoever ye would that men should
do unto you, do ye even so to them.' The selfish passions of individuals
ought not to be trusted with the administration of such a rule ; and accord-
ingly it should be borne in mind that Moses enacted it, not as a principle of
private action, but as the law to be administered in courts of justice, '
as the
judges shall determine ;' and the same rule, in different forms, governs courts
of justice in all civilized lands. It is by no means certain that Christ, if he
had been legislating as Moses was, for the affairs of a visible kingdom, would
not have made the essence of Moses' rule the basis of the administration of
justice between man and man. Rather it is certain that he would have done
so, since, as we have seen, he declared that rule to be the ultimate measure
of awards in God's eternal kingdom. But he gave his disciples another rule,
3
M HARMONTf OP M0SB9 A5fl> CHRIST*/
for reasons 'which grew out of the nature of his mission as an agent not of
justice but of mercy. Previous to judgment God interposes a dispensation
of forbearance and forgiveness. The rule of justice is suspended ; God
waves his rights, and returns good for e^^l, so long a& there is hope of saving
men. Christ appeared in the world as the agent of this intei-mediate dispen-
sation, and called on his followers to co-operate with him, by enlarging their
hearts beyond the rule of justice, to tho fulness of the measure of God's
mercy, who for tho present '
maketh his sun to rise on the evil and on the
good, and sondeth rain on the just and on the unjust.' In all this there was
no condemnation of the rule of justice. It Was perfectly consistent with
Christ's position to affirm (as he virtually did affirm by his endorsement of
the law and the prophets in Matt. 5: 17) that Moses gave that rule by divhie
authority, for he expressly declared it to be a rule which God would even
yell enforce in its proper time. He only taught his disciples that the rule of
mercy was better for the time then present—i. e., more appropriate to his
and their mission of love. Eoth rules were good. The same God might use-
both. Suppose A owes B a just debt, which he is able to pay. B may ex-
act the payment of that debt in perfect righteousness- In that case he acts
by the rule of justice. On the other hand he may in perfect righteousness
forgire the debt. In that case he acts by the rule of mercy. Under certain-
circumstances it might be best that he should exact payment, and under
others that he should forgive ;• and his acting by a different rule in different
cases would be no infraction of his consistency or uprightness. Indeed in
the parable of the cruel debtor we have a complete illustration of God's ad-
ministration of both rules. The king first forgives the servant his debt, ac-
cording to the rule of mercy^ Afterward^ on finduig him to be unforgiving
toward his fellow servant, he delivers him to the tormentors ' till he should
pay all that was due unto him.' Thus he enforces the rule of justice. 'So
likewise,^ says Christ, *
shall my heavenly Father do unto you.'' There is
no inconsistency between the different proceedings in this case ; and there is
no more inconsistency between tlie rule of Moses and that of Christ. God
commissioned Moses to institute a municipal law, which contained the ele-
monts, and was a miniature, of the rule of eternal judgment. He sent Christ
into tlie world to administer the fulness of his intermediate mercy. The pre-
cepts of both, in their appropriate times and circumstances, were entirely
consistent with each other. The allegation of Christ's opposition to Moses
in this case, and indeed most of the plausibihties of Universalism, Non-
resistance, and semi-infidelities in general, emanate from that shallowness
and confusion of mind, which disallows altogether the principle of divine
justice, and raises an entire and immutable theory of morality for God and
man on tho sole foundation of divine mercy^
t;^fff:'^'^'^^^ ('v <- ''H^i^'
§ 5. THE ULTIMATE GROUND OF FAITH.
There are several kinds of belief, which may be distinguished thus:
1. There is a belief of the imagination. When a person believes his own
thoughts Avithout reference to their agreement with external objects, his belief
is imaginative. The romance-writer produces thoughts that have no founda-
tion in external facts. Every person has the faculty of doing the same thing
to a greater or less extent. Ordinarily imaginative thoughts are treated as
such, and iK)t believed to be true. But sometimes men suffer the distinction
between imaginative and true thoughts to be confounded in their minds, and
come to believe whatever they think, without comparing their thoughts with
objective reaUties. Devoted novel-readers not unfrequently fall into this
confusion of mind ; and it is the special distinction of insane persons.
2. There is a belief of testimony ; i. e., of thoughts which are supposed to
tigree with objective realities, because they are confirmed by the report of
others. 3. There is a belief of the reason; i. e., of thoughts that are con-
firmed by a process of reasoning. 4. There is a belief of the semei ; i. e.,
of thoughts that are confirmed by the impressions of the senses.
The three latter kinds of belief are chiefly concerned in the formation of
the opinions of sane persons in ordinary life. Tlie two latter are principally
relied on by those w^ho are considered wise in their generation. The beUef
of the senses distinguishes ^\q practical wise man ; and the belief of the reason
the philosophical wise man. In proportion as a person leaves the guidance
of his senses and reason, and relies on testimony and imagination, he ap-
proaches credulous folly and insanity. ^
Besides all these, there is a fifth kind, which maybe called Byiritual belief.
One spirit can present itself to the perceptions of another and communicate
thoughts and persuasions, without the intervention of any verbal testimony,
any process of reasoning, or any impression of the senses. This is proved
by the phenomena of Mesmerism, and is recognized as an established truth
throughout the Bible. When a man believes thoughts thus caused or con- ,^
firmed, his belief is spiritual.
This kind of behef is liable to be confounded by superficial observers
with imaginative belief. It ascertains the truth of its thoughts by none of
the processes ordinarily used. It appeals to no external testimony, no train
of argument, no sensual evidence. To ordinary apprehension its resources,
like those of imaginative belief, are wholly subjective. Doubtless too, in
many cases, pretenders to spiritual behef have mistaken their imaginations
for spiritual impressions, and so have been really imaginative behevers,
having nothing in common with spiritual believers but the negative charac-
teristic of having left the region of sense, reason, and external testimony.
But in its essential nature, spiritual belief is no more alhed to imaginative
than either of the three kinds that are accepted by the world as rational. It
most resembles belief of the senses and testimony. It is, in fact, belief of
the internal senses and of testimony conveyed not by words, but by spiritual
28 ULTIMATE GROUND OF FAITH.
impressions. It 13 not altogether subjective. Its source of evidence is froiit
without the circle of its own thoughts—as truly so as verbal testimony. A
man who behoves spiritual impressions^ is no more properly chargeable with
behoving his own imaginations than one Who beHeves his neighbor's word.
He is hable, however, to be deceived. There are f^lse spirits, as there
are lying men ; and he who behoves the impressions of all sorts of spirits,
will be as miserably misled as he who behoves every report that he hears.
And in the infancy of spirituahsm there is perhaps more danger of running
into this indiscriminate credulity, than there is in ordinary life ; because the
novice naturally imagines that every impression he receives comes from God,
and his veneration binds him to behove without questioning.
But assummg that a spiritualist has learned to discriminate between true
and false spirits as wisely as persons of common sense discriminate between
true and false men, there is no more folly in his belief, founded on spiritual
impressions, than there is in theirs founded on verbal testimony. And if he
is in communication with God, the source of all truth, his belief is altogether
more trustworthy than even the behef of the senses or of reason ; for God is
less likely to persuade hun of falsehood than his own eyes or his own intellect.
This is the nature of true faith. It is not a belief of imaginations, though
it may easily be mistaken for that. It is no.t a belief of human report. It
is not a belief of any process of reasoning. It is not a belief of the external
senses. It is not an indiscriminate belief of spiritual impressions. But it is
a behef of the persuasions of God's spirit. The faith of the prophets in their
own predictions must necessarily have been a confidence in divine impressions.
So faith in prayer, (which is a kind of prophesying,) must be an anticipa-
tive persuasion wrought by the spiiit of God. So also all hopes of salvation
that are authentic and sure, are of the nature of prophecy, and must be
caused and sustained by the spiritual power of him who '
seeth the end from
the beginning.'
Now while we recognize and duly value all the lower evidences which may
be set ui array for the defence of Bible-religion against infidelity, it is still to
be borne in mind that the belief which is caused by these evidences is but
the precursor and auxiliary of spiritual faith. Here is the advantage which
the true believer may claim over all other disciples of truth. From all the
sophistries of ' the disputers of this world,' he can appeal to the testimony of
his o^yn internal perceptions. While he can say '
I have seen, and therefore
behove,' the infidel can only reply, '
I have not seen and therefore believe
not ;' and a mere negative of this kind in one man's mouth, has properly no
force against the positive knowledge of another.—We will illustrate the fore-
going positions by a sketch of the grounds, both proximate and ultunate, on
which rests the behef of the existence of God.
The evidence that there is a God is of two sorts direct and indirect. It
is manifest that God Inmself has evidence of his own existence, independently
of any testimony of his works—the evidence of co7isciousness. So they who
stand in his presence or are joined to his spirit, whether angels or saints,
know his existence by immediate ferception. This we call direct evidence.
On the other hand the whole creation is full of the tohns of his '
invisible
UtTiMAl'B GROUND Ot FAITIt. 29
J^ower and Godhead.' So that a thoughtful and honest observer, howevfei*
remote from his immediate presence, could not fail to infer his existence.
This we call mdirect evidence.
The following is a sketch of the most comprehensive argument for the ex-
istence of God, from indireet evidence : 1. Mere matter has no power in
itself. All motion must be the effect, and of course the evidence of life.
But all visible matter is in motion. Therefore all visible matter demonstrates
the existence of life. The unity of that life is proved by the unity of all the
treat movements of matter ; and its omnipotence by their immensity.
. Order is not the effect of chance or of a blind will* All orderly motion
is evidence of intelligence. But all visible matter is in orderly motion.
Therefore all visible matter demonstrates the existence of intelligence. The
immense extent and ingenuity of the order of the universe, proves that intel-
ligence to be omniscience. 3. All orderly motion tending to produce hapj^i-
ness, is evidence of benevolence. But all visible matter is in orderly motion
tending to produce happiness. All visible matter therefore demonstrates
that the inteUigent life which moves it, is benevolent. Thus the universe
testifies of an invisible being, whose elements are infinite life, light, and
LOVE. Such a being we may safely worship as GOD.
Arguments of this kind show how much proof of the existence of God
man onight have found by the light of nature, had he been an honest and
diligent observer. Of course, they show that all, even the heathen, are
under the obligations and responsibihties of the divine government. But
they by no means indicate the process by which men do actually come to the
knowledge of the true God. Human perverseness has been found proof
against the testimony of creation ; and all valuable knowledge of God has
come by means supplied by an economy of special revelation. That economy
employs, as its chief and final powder of proof, direct spiritual evidence
making all indirect testimony only introductory and subordinate.
The process by which believers generally arrive at a solid practical assu-
rance of the existence of God, is tliis : First, they hear of him from their
parents and teachers ;
(and it has been God's care from the beginning of the
world to provide this first means of instruction ;) thus their minds are pre-
occupied with a persuasion of his existence. Then they read the book which
contains the records of his past manifestations to mankind, and gives them
directions for approaching him. Finally, they follow those directions, and
ascertaui that there is a God by actual communion with him. In other w^ords,
they first believe the report of men and books, so far as to seek God ; and
when they have found him, they believe the evidence of their own spiritual
senses.
This method of coming to rest in the conclusion that there is a God, how-
ever it may be derided by skeptics, is by no means irrational. An illustra-
tion will set it ui its true light. Suppose the case of a man bom in a remote
province of some great empire. He is a subject of a king whom he has
never seen. In order that he may be a good subject, he must have a sure
beUef in the existence of his king. By what process may he most readily
assure hunself of the truth which he thus needs to know ? He hears the
•BO 6UIDE OF INTERPREtATION.
testimony of common report ; he sees the administration of government aromid
him ; he has a copy of the statutes of the empire ; he has conversed with
some who profess to have seen the king. With these gromids of behef, he
may sm-cly, without exposing himself to any fair charge of creduhty, incjuire
his way to the king's presence, and so convert the persuasion that comes by
report into the certainty that comes by personal knowledge. Ever after-
ward, his answer to those who ask why he behoves in the existence of the
king, will be ''Because I have seen him^^ So, to the question, ' Why do
you believe in the existence of a God V the spiritual man ^answers—' I did
beUevc at first because I heard reports ef him, and saw his works ; but I
iioto believe because my spirit perceives him,''
By a similar process the believer's heart attains immovable confidence in
the Bible as the word of God. At first he is persuaded to respect and read
it by the testimony of men. Afterward perhaps his understanding is satisfied
by historical evidences, by the miracles and fulfilments of prophecy which
attest its divinity, and by his own perceptions of its intrinsic goodness and
grandeur. But all these vouchers, external and internal, though sufficient
to condemn infidelity, are but the harbingers of that ' full assurance of faith'
which rests on the spiritual testimony of God. The man who assures him-
self of the existence of his king by seeking his presence, will also at the same
time verify, by pereonal inquiry, the authenticity of the statute-book which
bears the king's name. To the question, ' Why do you believe the Bible V
the best of all answers is •'
Because God endorses it in his communications
with my heart, and m all his discipline of me, owns it, as the auxiliary of his
Spirit.'
^ 6. THE GUIDE OF INTERPRETATION.
Having ascertained that the Bible is the word of God, and of course our
text-book of doctrine, the question now arises. Who shall he our instructor
in that text-hook P The Catholic answers '
The Churchy hy its traditions
and the teaching of its p)riests.'' The Protestant answers—' We need 7io in-
structor ; the Bihle itself is the only sufficient rule of faith and practice,^
But we may reply to the Protestant, except it be interpreted it is no rule at
all; and mterpretation implies something beside and ahove the Bible, viz.,
judgment or ophiion. Still then we ask, Who shall direct our judgment 9
—who shall govern our opinion in determining the meaning of the Bihle ?
In the nature of the case, we need an interpreter with the Bible, as truly
as the infant scholar needs a schoolmaster with his spelling-book. And in
fact, Protestants have yielded to the necessity of the case. Their laity re-
ceive their rule of faith and practice from the clergy ; the clergy in turn
receive it from the schools ; and the schools receive it partly from tradition,
and partly from human, and even infidel learning. }3ut even if the Pro-
GUIDE OP INTERPRETATION. 8t
{estant theory could be carried out, and private judgment actually take the
place of tradition and human learning, it would still be true that the Bible of
itself is not the rule ; for then private judgment would be the schoolmaster,
and the Bible only its text-book ; and in- this, as in all other cases, the school-
master would be above the book..
Seeing then we must have a guide, whom shall we choose ? We answer,
THE HOLY GHOST. It should be presumed that God, if he has given the
world a book, has also provided an interpreter. Accordingly we find the
Bible itself plainly directs us to its author, the Spirit of truth^ as the ultimate
guide of faith. The great promise of the Old Testament is, that '
all shall
he taugU of God: (See Isa. 54; 13, Jer. 31: 34.) And the New Testa-
ment records the fulfilment of this promise, in the outpouring of the Holy
Ghost on the primitive Christian church. Christ did not rely even on his
own verbal instructions to his disciples, (though we may presume they were
as perfect as those of the scriptures,) but referred them to the Comforter,
as their ultimate and effectual instructor. (See John 14: 26, 28.) Paul
prayed that the Ephesians, whom he had taught abundantly by Avord of
mouth, might have '
the spirit of wisdom and revelation.'^ Eph. 1: 17. John
thus describes the church of the new covenant: ' Ye have an unction from
the Holy One^ and ye know all things ; I have not written unto you because
ye know not the truth. * * * The anointing which ye have received of
him abideth in you^ and ye need not that any man teach you : hut as the same
anointing teacheth you of all things^ and is truth, and is no lie, and eveji as
it hath taught you, ye shall abide in him.'' 1 John 2: 20—27. Thus we
have the authority of the Bible itself for regarding the Holy Ghost as the
superior oracle, not contradicting or superceding the Bible, but interpreting
and applying it.
Eor the sake of developing our views on this point more fully, we will here
present and discuss at some length the principles of the anti-spiritual school.
One of the text-books at Andover is Ernesti on Inte^yretation, translated
from the German and pubhshed with notes by Moses Stuart. The conclu-
ding part of the book is a chapter from Keil, a German critic, ' on the quali-
fications of an interpreter.' Prof. Stuart commends it as a '
well digested
summary.' That our readers may have a fair view of the German and
Andoverian equipments, we subjoin the substance of Keil's chapter
^ 1. He who desires to understand and interpret the books of the New Testament,
mnsi, first of all, acquire some historic knowledge of the author of each book ; of the
state of things existing- when it was written ; of the body or collection of the New
Testament books J
of the particular history of its ancient versions, editions, and parts
in which it was written ; and other things of this nature. To this must be added a
knowledge of the principles of criticism, in respect to the text of the New Testament.
$ 2. Of the second kind of knowledge, preparatory to the understanding and interpretation
of the Neu) Testament.
(1) The interpreter must understand the language in which the hooks are written. As the
diction is not pure classic Greek, but the Hebrew idiom here and there intermixed with
classic Greek, and as vestiges of the Chaldee, Syriac, Rabbinic and Latin languages
occur; it follows, of course, that the interpreter should not only be acquainted with
pure Greek, but with its various dialects, specially the Alexandrine. Above all, ho
ought to be well versed in the Hebrew, Chaldee, Syriac, Rabbinic, and Latin idioms.
(2) The interpreter must possess a knowledge of the things respecting tchich the book treats.
These are partly historical, and partly doctrinal. The explanation of them must be
32 GUIDE OF INTERPRETATION.
sought, primarily, froin the books themselves; and secondarily, from those writing's of
more reectit authors, which may be subsidiary to tiie attainment of this knowledge.
^ 3. As to the liistorie matter of these books. It is of g-reat importance to the interpreter
to be well versed in sacred g-eography, chronology, civil history, and archtT?ology ; i. e.,
to understand those things which respect the sitijation and climate of the countries
where the events referred to h&ppcned ; as well as those which serve to define the times
when they happened ; and also the history of the nation among whom they took place,
and of other nations mentioned in this history, with their condition, manners,, and cus-
toms.
(1) Geographical knowledge. The geography of Palestine and the neighboring coun-
tries should be well understood, as also their natural productions. To this must be
added a knowledge of many countries in Asia, and of some in Europe; also the Roman
empire, as it then existed,, divided into provinces.
(2) Chronology. The interpreter should have not only a knowledge of technlcaf chro-
nology, but of the Roman mode of reckoning ab urbe condita, and of the Greek Olympi-
ads, on which subjects he may study authors well deserving of credit;) but in respect
to historical chronology, he should know in what order of time the events related in the
Old Testament happened ; when and where the first Roman emperors, the various kings
and princes that sprung from the house of Herod the Great, the Roman consuls at the
beginning of the empire of the Cesars,^ the Jewish high priests (and the number of them)
in our Savior's time, and the Roman magistrates, speeially in the provinces of Syria
and Judea, succeeded each other.
(3) History civil and political. In regard to the history of events among the nations
mentioned in the sacred books, and also their forms of government, it is important for
the interpreter to make himself acquainted, first, with the ancient history ot the Jews.^
In studying this, he is not to confine himself merely to the Old Testament; he must
also consult the traditionary accounts which were extant in the time of Christ and the
apostles. Secondly, he must study the history of the Jews under the Herods, and that
ot these princes. Thirdly, the condition and circumstances of the Jews in Palestine,
while under the dominion of the Romans; and also of the Jews living in other coun-
tries. P'inally, the history of the Roman emperors at that period, and of the Roman
prefects over the Asiatic provinces.
(4) Manners and customs. In regard to these, a knowledge of Hebrew antiquities ii*
general is necessary. A considerable knowledge of the Greek and Roman antiquities.
A knowledge of the ecclesiastical rites and customs of the primitive churches; both;
those which they received from the Hebrews, and others which were introduced by
Christians themselves.
§ 4. Doctrinal contents of the sacred books. That part of the New Testament which is
directly concerned with faith and practice, will be rightly understood when the interppe-
ter rightly understands what each particular writer has inculcated. As there are many
passages which relate to the Jews ; and as the writers of the New Testament and their
first readers were of Jewish extraction ; it will be important,
(1) To know the sentiments of the Jews of that period, in regard to religion; spe-
cially of those who used the Hebrew-Greek dialect, and of the three great sects among:
which the Jews were divided, viz., the Pharisees, Sadducees, and Essenes.
(2) Thcjrrecepts of the Christian religion. What was adopted from the Jewish religion^
what rejected, and what was added anew to Christianity, must be understood in order
to explain the New Testament properly. But knowledge of this nature, that is certain,
can be drawn only fiom the sacred writings themselves.
(3) The doctrines of heretical sects. It is important to know the opinions of early here-
tics, because, it is probable, some passages of the New Testament have a special
reference to them.
^ 5. In enumerating the qualifications of an interpreter, wemust not omit a knowledge
of grammar, rhetoric, and philosophy.
(1) Gramviar. Not only a general knowledge of its principles is necessajy, but also
especial technical knowledge of both etymology and syntax. The interpreter must be
acquainted with the various forms of words, and understand how the significations are
connected with the forms ; he must understand the manner in which words are con-
nected in a sentence; the use of the particles; and also of the grammatical figures, asr
they are called, such as ellipsis and pleonasm.
(2) Rhetoric. A knowledge of this is necessary, not so much to judge of rhetorical
figures, as to find out the meaning of them, or the sentiment they are designed to convey*
(3) A knoicledge of philosophy. Not that of some particular school or sect merely, but
that which pertains to the cultivation of the mental powers, and to nice psychological
GtJIDH OV I^TERPRBTATIO!^, S^
dlscrlmliifttlon. Such a knovvleflge is requisite, in order to form clear conceptions in
the mind, and accurately to define our ideas; to discern what is similar in diflerenl
thing-s, and what is distinct ; to judge of the connexion of thought and argument; and
finallj'', to qualify one perspicuously to represent the opinions of an author to otliers.
Great caution however is necessary here, lest the interpreter intrude upon his author
his own particular philosophy. Erncsti, p. 120-124.
The remarkable thing about this ^ summary' is its entire omission of all
spiritual qualifications for biblical interpretation. Every one of Keil's requi-
sites are as attainable by a studious infidel as by a disciple of Christ. The
teachings of the Holy Ghost and a knowledge of the mysteries of the spirit-
ual world have no place in his account.
It may be said however, in extenuation of this omission, that it was not
Keil's intention to describe the «w6;'e<?twe qualifications, of an interpreter, but
only to enumerate the departments oi objective knowledge mth which a bibli-
cal critic must be conversant. If this is true, the title of the chapter is too
general. It should have been—' The ohjecfive qualiiications of an interpre-
ter.' And even then there would have been no excuse for not mentioning a
knowledge of the topography and history of the spiritual world, as equally
necessary with a knowledge of the topography and history of Palestine, the
Roman empire, &c. Ouranography is certainly as important an element as
geography in the interpretation of the Bible.
But we are not left in any doubt as to the place which the German theo-
logians and Pi'of. Stuart assign to spiritual wisdom among the qualifications
of an interpreter. In the former part of the work to which the above sum-
mary is appended, we have a delineation of the subjective characteristics of
a good biblical critic. We copy the text without Prof Stuart's notes
Requisites of a good interpreter. The act of interpretation implies two things ; viz., a
right perception of the meaning of words, and a proper explanation of that meaning.
Hence a good interpreter must possess a sovnd understandings snd be skillful in explana-
tion. A sound understanding is exhibited in two ways ; first^ in discerning whether we
really understand a passage or not, and, provided we do not, in discovering the diffi-
culties that lie in the way of rightly understanding it, and the grounds of those difficul-
ties; secondly, in finding out^ by a proper method of investigation, the sense of those
passages which are difficult.
Means hy^ lohich difficulties and their causes are detected. A good degree of talent or capac-
ity is requisite for this; for men of small capacity frequently assent to thing'^ which
seem to be taught, without any good reasons for so doing; and often believe themselves
to understand what they do not understand. To a good degree of talent must be joined
n careful habit of distinguishing ideas of things from mere words or sounds ; for we
ought always to inquire, in respect to any word,, whether we have a distinct perceptica
of the thing or idea which it is meant «o designate,^ and not to regard merely tlie sound
of the word.
Means of removing these difficulties. The first means is a just and accurate knowledge
of languages. The next, an acquaintance with the principles of interpretation. Not
that no one can interpret at all, without a scientific knowledge of these principles ; but
because they assist men of moderate talents, and guide them as it were in the right
way, so that they are not left to depend on chance i-ather than reason. Besides, they
are, in this way, supplied with a common rule for judging in controverted cases.
Finally, as in detecting difficulties, exercise and habit are important, so here, they are
of so much consequence that all other advantages will be of little use without them.
Exercises and habits adapted ta overcome the difficulties of interpretation. First, we should
attend the instructions of a good interpreter; next, we should read those works where
exegetical knowledge is displayed in the best manner, and reflect much upon them, for
in this way we may be led to the imitation of them; and lastly, those books which we
desire to interpret must be assiduously and constantly perused.
Skill in Gxplanation, This is exhibited by expressing the sense of an author, either in
4
t^ords of the same langnias-e which are more perspicuous than hU, or by trahsltiiitig
into another laiig-nacre, and explaining- by arg-nment and illustration. In addition to afi
accurate knowledg-e ofthe lang-uage which we translate, skill in explaining re qu'wes that
we sliould exhibit purity of diction } still preserving", so far as may be, the teatufes of
the orig-inal, lest the morZc of reasoning- should be obscured, which sometimes depends
on the form of the words. Enicsti, p. 2-5.
Here again is no mention of spiritual illumination, no allusion to the Holy
Spirit as the guide or even the auxiliary of a sound understanding. Good
talents, good habits of thought and study, good human instructors, and good
models, are required ; but that spiritual discernment which comes by personal
acquaintance with God and with the imier world, is not hinted at. The sub-
jective qualifications of an interpreter of the Bible, according to Emesti and
Stuart, are just those which are requisite in an interpreter of Homer and
Blackstone,—nothing more. Indeed this is distinctly avowed ift a stibsequeiit
section of the book. Ernesti says
The principles of interpretation ate common to sacred and profane wAtinggi Ofcoiirse, the
scriptures are to he investigated by the same rules as other books. Those fanatic9y
therefore, are not to be reg-arded, who, despising literature and the study of the la»-
g-uages, refer every thing- merely to (he influence of the ypirit. Not that We doubt the
influence of the Spirit? or that men truly pious and desirous of knowing the truth, ar6
assisted by it in their researches, specially in those things that pertain to faith and
practice, p. 15.
In a note on this, Prof. Stuart says-—
If the scriptures be a revelation to men, then are they to be read and understood bjr
men. If the same laws of language are not observed in this retelation, as are common
to men, then they have no guide to the right understanding of the scriptures : and an
inZer/weter needs inspim^ion as much as the original writer. It follows, of course, that
the scriptures would be no revelation in themselves; nor of any use, except to those who
are inspired. But stich a book the scriptures are not ; and nothing is more evident than
that ' lohen God has spoken to men^ he has spoken in the language of men, for he has spoken
by men, andfor men.' p, 15.
This is all we find in the book on the Subject of divine influence as a help
to understanding and interpreting the scriptures. Emesti pioudy admits
that there is such a thing as the influence of the Spirit ; and that it assists
men somewhat in their biblical researches ; but he evidently considers this
assistance not important enough to deserve a separate notice in liis enumera-
tion of the requisites of an interpreter. Indeed one would judge that he
regarded it as sometiling so inexplicable and unappreciable, that the science
of hermeneutics has nothing to ao with it, except to put men on their guard
against thinking too highly of it. And Stuart, wholly passing by Ernesti'a
concession m favor of the Spirit, heartily chimes in with his assertion that
the Bible is on a level with other books, and needs no help from heaven for
its interpretation.
We are not among those " fanatics, -who, despising literature and the study
of the languages, refer every thing merely to the influence of the Spirit."
We highly appreciate all tlie qualifications, objective and subjective, which
are enumerated by Keil and Ernesti ; and we have quoted at large their de-
lineations of a good interpreter, partly for the purpose of commending them
to our readers' attention, as useful suggestions, so far as they go. It is as
true of the interpreter of the Bible as of any other professional man, that
the more real knowledge of every kind he has, the better. He should by all
means avoid smothering his spiritual life under the aimor of his learning ; but
OUIDB 01" INTERPRISTATION* S5
lie filiould certainly have at command all the resources of philology, archseol*
ogy, &c. Yet knowing as we do, by the testimony of the Bible itself, as well
as by every other mode of demonstration, that divine illumination and spirit-
ual experience are by far the most essential of all qualifications for interpre-
ting the word of God, we look upon the disregard of these qualifications, and
Mie imphed contempt of them which we have noticed in the preceding extracts
'from Keil, Ernesti and Stuart, with that kind of indignation which is due to
blasphemy ; and We enter our protest before heaven and earth agauist the
system of hermeneutics which puts human learning in the place of the Holy
Ghost.
The reasoning on which the anti-spiritual th«eory of hermeneutics is based,
is brought to view in Prof. Stuart's note—the last of th-e above quotations.
That reasoning may be condensed into the follo^nng syllogism : 1, a reve-
lation to men must be intelligible without inspiration ; 2, the Bible is such a
revelation ; 8, therefore inspiration is not necessary to the interpretation of
the Bible. If the first of these propositions is true, it must be assumed that
a revelation from God to men which can be understood only by the help of
iaspiration, is an absurdity, and was an absurdity in Bible-times ; and that
God never sent such messages, and never inspired mon for the purpose of
enabling them to interpret Ms messages. We take issue with Prof. Stuart
on the question of fact involved in these assumptions. Our present concern
is not with the philosophy of the matter. We do not undertake now to say
why and how far the interpretation of the Bibie requires inspiration, or
whether the reason of its requiring inspiration lies in the peculiarity of its
ilaws of language, or of its subjects. These will be matters for after-conside-
ration. The question now before us is whether God has or has not in past
times inspired men for the purpose of enabling them to interpret his verbal
messages,—whether the idea of a secondary inspiration employed to inter-
pret primary revelations, is or is not <m absurdity. The Bible shall be our
witness.
1. In the case of the disciples^ the Koly Gho^ was certainly eent upon
them especially for the purpose of ennabling them to interpret the verbal in-
structions which Christ gave them while in the world. 'These things have
I spoken unto you being yet present ^rith you ;
£this was the primary reve-
lation ;] but the Gomforter, which is the Holy Grhost, whom the Father "vvill
send in my name, he shall teach you all things, and bring all things to your
remembrance whatsoever i have said unto you ;' {this was the secondary
revelation, ond was indispensable to the efficacy of the primary.] John 14:
25, 26. See also 16: 1%,
2. The book of Daniel is full of instances of revelations interpreted by
inspiration. Daniel constantly looked to God, not only for the text, but for
the commentary. See Dan. 7: 15, 16, 8: 15—19, 10: 21.
3. The * interpretation of tongues' in the primitive church, which was in
effect commentary on the efiiisions of inspiration, was one of the gifts of the
Spirit. 1 Cor. 12: 10.
If it is said that in all these cases the primary communications were not
^to'^^ly revelationsJ
since they were not expected or intended to be intelilir
B6 GtJIDB OF INTERPRETATION.
gible till they should he explained by subsequent communications, wc reply,
it may be found that the Bible itself, or at least a large portion of it, is, in
tlie same sense, not a revelation. The personal instructions of Christ, the
symbolical visions of Daniel, and the effusions of those who spoke with
tongues, certainly came from God, and in that sense were revelations. They
were sealed caskets of truth, which could only be opened by him who gave
them. It may be that He who chose to teach men in these instances by the
double gift of text and commentary, has chosen to teach men in all genera-
tions by the same means. It may be that there are many caskets of truth
in his written word unsealed to this day, which none but hin-iself can open.
Our instances sufficiently prove that interpretation of inspired messages by
inspiration, is not an absurdity.
Again, we may reply, if a communication which needs to be explained iB
not a revelation, then the substance of the Bible, even as viewed by Prof*
Stuart and his German colleagues, is no revelation to the mass of mankind J
for these critics insist that it needs an immense amount of scientific explanar
tion, and they require, as we have seen, many and large qualifications in ita^
interpreters. If God has left it in such a state of obscurity that it needs the
commentaries of men, why may he not have left it also m need of the eluci-
dations of his own Spirit ? If the treasure-house of truth is to be left locked
at all, surely God may as well keep the key himself as give it to the literatim
The sophism of Prof. Stuart's argument lies- in the indefiniteness of the
expression—' a revelation to men'—with which he begins his syllogism. '
If
the scriptures (he says) be a revelation to men,, then are they to be read
and understood by men.' The scriptures are indeed a 'revelation to men,'
but to what kind of men ? Not to all men. The illiterate cannot receive
them at all, except through the mediation of translators ; and Prof. Stuart
will be the last to admit that they are to be ' read and understood' fully by
any body that has not the whole armor of philology. Then on liis own prin^
ciples they are in themselves, without explanation ah extra, a revelation only
to a small class of men. Why may we not carry the principle a little farther^
and say that the scriptures are in the full sense of the word a revelation only
to that class of men who have the key of inspiration ? Prof. Stuart gain*
nothing for his position that inspiration is not necessary to interpretation, by
saying that the Bible is a ' revelation to men,' unless he means that it is s^
revelation to uninspired men. We deny that this proposition without quali'
fication is true. To assume it, is to beg the whole question.
A great part of the scriptures, especially of the New Testament, was cer-
tainly addressed originally to inspired men. For example, John's epistles-
were addressed to persons of whom he said '
Ye have an unction from the*
Holy One, and ye know all things. * * * The anointing which ye have re^
ceived of him abideth in you,, and ye need not that any man teach you ; but
as the same anointing teacheth you of all things, and is truth, and is no lie,^
and even as it hath taught you, ye^ shall abide in him.' 1 John 2: 20, 27
These beUcvers, though laymen, manifestly had that same Comforter which
Christ promised to his immediate followers. They were inspired. So the
churches to whom Paul wroto wero enriched with the various gifts of the?
t t
'GtJiDE 01* iNTERPilE'fAttOJTi S7
Bpirlt, and abounded in prophecies, revelations, and all the fruits of inspira^
tion. It is safe to say that the whole New Testament was written for the
church, and not for the world ; and for a church too that was confessedly
filled with supernatural illumination. What right then has Prof. Stuart to
assert roundly that '
the scriptures are a revelation to men,' meaning as he
Inanifestly does that thcy are designed and adapted as a whole to be read
ftnd understood by men without spiritual illumination ? Are all sorts of men
on a level with the spirituahsts of the priuiitive church ? Did the Holy
Ghost give those spiritualists no advantage over the worldj in respect to
understanding the scriptures addressed to them ? If they had any special
clairvoyance, is it to be supposed that the epistles written to them were
constructed without reference to that clairvoyance ^ and were leveled to the
intelligence of ordinary men ? If the apostles wrote appropriately for in-
spired men, as it is to be presumed they did, then it is certain that their
writings transcend the understandings of uninspired men, and require the help
of inspiration for their interpretation. It is ridiculous arrogance for mere
intellectualists, however expert in criticism, to pretend that they are Compe-
tent to judge and interpret writmgs addressed and adapted to men filled witb
the Holy Ghost.
It is plain that the Bible is not ' in itself a revelation to men.' It caiitiot
reach the human mind at all without help from without itself. At the low-
est, it requires in those who are to be instructed by it, a previous knowledge
of letters. To men who cannot read, (and they are probably a majority of
the human race,) it is no revelation.
The principle being admitted then that it is a revelation only to iiien in a
certain advanced stage of inteUigence, the question arises. What degree of
intelHgence is necessary to a full understanding of it ? Does it unfold all
its treasures to those who are merely able to read ? Certainly not. Many
of its narratives and some of its simpler doctrines and precepts are doubtless
intelligible to this class,^—enough to give them an introduction to the school
of heavenly truth. But we are safe in assuming that, in the view of the
learned men whose anti-spiritual theories We are combating, the Bible as a^
whole is constructed for a far higher degree of intelligence than that implied
in the mere ability to read. An acquaintance with its original languages^
with oriental life, with the laws of interpretation, and with the commentaries
of learned men, unlocks vast stores of truth which are inaccessible to ordi'
nary readers. Thus far then, the apocalyptical power of the Bible increases
as the intelligence of its readers increase. /
But the scale of possible human intelligence ranges from the mere ability
to read, to the perfect clairvoyance of inspiration. The intelligence of the
literati is only midway between these extremes. Now^ must we believe thair
tiie apocalyptical power of the Bible ceases to increase, at the highest poinfe
of literary intelhgence ? Are its treasures all open to those who have atr
command the apparatus of criticism ? Has it no mysteries to disclose pe-
culiarly to those who have attained that higher intelligence which comes by
inspiration ? Assuredly God has provided in his revelation, for all readers
ibeir seasonable food ; milk for babes, and strong meat for men j simple thing*
?S GUiDiS 01? INilKRPfeETA'tlO:^.
for the ignorant ; deeper truths for the learned ; and still deeper mystericS
for the inspired. The Bible is no revelation to those who cannot read ; it is
t, revelation of certain introductory truths to those who can only read ; it is a
revelation of much curioits wisdom to those who can read with the help of
himian learning ; and it is a revelation of the deep things of God to those
who can read with the help of the Spirit of truth* This is the sense, and
the only sense in w'hich the Bible is a 'revelation to mens*
the supposition that it is merely a revelation to uninspired iii6n, and has
n6 peculiar disclosures for any class above the literati, is utterly incongruous
"with the circumstances of its origui^ The reader will recollect that Keil
says—" He who desires to understand and interpret the books of the New
Testament, must, first of all, acquire some historic knowledge of the authof*
'of the book, and of the state of things existing when it was written." We
Accept the rule^ but We propose an application of it which the learned writer
probably did not contemplate. Who is the niothor qf the Bible? If ' all
Scripture is given by inspiration,' (which will not be denied by those with
"whom we are dealing,) then God is the author, of whom some ' historic
knowledge' must be acquired by one who wishes to form a correct idea of the
Bible. The question which stands '
first of all' is not, What kind of a book
would Matthew or Paul write ? but, What kind of a book would God dictate ?
Is it to be presumed that the whole of a revelation, emanating from such a
person as we know God to be, would be levol to the intelhgenc^ of mere
literary amateurs ? Let Paul answer. *
What man (says he) knoweth the
things of a man save the spirit of man which is in him •? Even so the things
of God knoweth no man, but the Spirit of God. * * * The natural man fe^
Ceiveth not the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness unto him^
neither can he know them, because they are spiritually discerned-.' Our
^ historic' or even intuitive knowledge of the author of the Bible would lead
us to expect mysteries in it beyond the depth of uninspired men.
Let us now apply the second requirement of Keil's rule. " He who de--
ftireS to understand and interpret the books of the New Testament, must ao*
quire some historic knowledge * * * of the state of things existing when tJiei/
were written.^ ^ What then was the state of things when the New Testa-
toient was written ? We have already suggested that the church of God, to
\vhich the New Testament was addressed, was in the full glory of the Pente*
tjostal baptism'—flooded with spiritual illmnination. And wo aver that of all
^ecifications concerning ' the state of things' at that time, this is the most im-
portant. By this fact we must estimate the profundity of the New Testa*
talent, and the degree aiid nature of the intelligence necessary to its interpre-
tation. Yet we are not aware that this fact is taken into account at all by
literary commentators. It certainly cannot have any great weight with those
who hold with Stuart that inspiration is not a necessary qualification of an in-
terpreter. Here we have a book which was confessedly dictated by God, and
addressed to men filled with the Holy Ghost ; and yet the learned professors
•of Germany and Andover teach their young theologues to grapple with it, as
though it were merely written from men to men ! We cannot conceive of a
ttioro outrageous violation of Keil's leading precept.
GUIDE OE DJTEKPBETATIOS, W
The Bible was written by men to men ; but thia is not all that is true of it.
This describes its bod^. As to its soul it was a communication from God,
specially (though not exclusively) addressed and adapted to an inspired
church. Jesus Christ as to his body was born of a woman, and appeared aa
a man among men. But had he no higher nature than that which was thus
identified with humanity ? Would a man be in a fit position to understand
and interpret him, who should recognize in him nothing but the earthly part
of his being ? The Bible as well as Jesus Christ is called the ' word of God,*
and in an important sense it is true]of the Bible as it is of Jesus Christ, that
in it human and divine elements are blended. As Jesus Christ by his incar-
nation opened communication between the Father and the lowest regions of
humanity, so the Bible, in its scope of truth, extends from the highest myste-
ries of heaven to the simplest earthly truths. An interpreter equipped only
with the qualifications prescribed by Keil, Ernesti and Stuart, may be able to
expound much that belongs to the human element of the Bible ; but one who
will handle its divinity^ must have higher qualifications—as much higher as the
Boul is above the body, or rather as the eternal Son of God is above the human
fbrm that was bom of Mary.
Another precept of Keil is that " the interpreter must possess a knowledge
of the things respecting which the booh treats^ What are the most impor-
tant things of which the Bible treats ? Surely not those with which a man
may become acquainted by studying philology, geography, chronology, civil
history, and archaeology. The human element of the Bible may be illustra-
ted by these sciences. But the things which chiefly occupy that book and
distinguish it as a divine revelation, are of a spiritual nature. It treats of
supernatural powers, of the operations of the Holy Ghost, of prophetical
illuminations, of regeneration, of localities and transactions in the spiritual
world. A man can be but a very superficial interpreter of the Bible, how-
ever learned he may be in the usual way, if he has not an extensive and fa-
miliar acquaintance with these things. Suppose a professor of Mesmerism
should write a manual for a class of pupils already initiated by his own per-
sonal labors into an experimental acquaintance with the elements of the sci-
ence. Would any one be fit to translate that book from a foreign language,
and interpret it, without any practical acquaintance with the phenomena and
philosophy of Mesmerism ? However minutely he might be versed in the
topography and history of the wter's birth place, and m the philology of his
language, he would still lack the most important of all qualifications of an ex-
positor. But the Bible is a manual dictated by God, addressed to the pupils
of the Holy Ghost, and treating of spiritual phenomena. Then no man ia
competent to interpret it, who is not a pupil of the Holy Ghost, and practi-
cally versed in spiritual science.
Mental sympathy with the writers and original readers of the scriptures is
an essential qualification of a good interpreter. Even the critics of Germa-
ny and Andover insist that we must place ourselves back in Bible times, and
€is far as possible in the exact position of those who wrote and read the origi-
nal scriptures, in order to understand and expound them. But how can an
unspiritual man sympathize with the writers and original readers of such spir-
40 GUIDE OP INTEJIPRBTATION.
itual communications as, for instance, the epistles of Paul ? How can an un-
rcgenerate man be fit to expound the discourses of Christ and John on regen-
eration ? And if regeneration is necessary as a qualification for interpreting
fully the scriptures relating to regeneration, then inspiration is necessary ;
for regeneration is the efiect of the infusion of the Holy Ghost, and that is
inspiration.
A mere inspection of the -Writings of the prophets—the apocalypse, for in-
stance—is sufficient to convince any sober man that the things with which one
must be acquauitcd, in order to interpret them, are beyond the ken of human
learnmg. The ignorance and incredulity of the natural man in regard to the
tilings of the invisible world, is the manifest cause of the miserable perplexity
in which the learned w^orld is groping to this day, about the very plainest
prophecies in the Bible—those relating to the Second Coming of Christ.
And this ignorance and incredulity can be removed only by inspiration. Men
will never be able to understand and interpret that large portion of the pro-
phecies which Isolates to the inner mansions of the universe, till they have-
spiritual access to those mansions by the baptism of the Holy Ghost.
Nor does the difficulty of interpreting the prophecies, which makes inspi-
ration necessary, lie wholly in the nature of the subjects treated of. The
Holy Ghost has certainly taken the liberty of using language ui ways peculiar
to itself. For instance, God said by Malachi~^J will send you Elijah the
projjhet before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord.' Now
who would have ever dared, on the strength of any ordiiaary law of language,
to have appUed this prediction to John the Baptist ? John himself did not
so apply it. (John 1: 21.) But Christ saw and declared that 'this was the-
Ehas which was to come V The expression 'Elijah the projphef means lit-
erally the person who ascended to heaven m a chariot of fire. But John the
Baptist certainly was not that person. Shall we say then that expression is.
to be understood figuratively—that the meaning is, '
I will send you a pro-
phet like Elijah?' The language of the prediction is too simple and positive
to allow such a construction. Christ did not say that John was like Elijah^
but that he w<zs Elijah. (Matt. 11: 14.) The Hteral and the figurative
senses then are both excluded ; and these are the only senses recognized in
the ^lsus loquendl of the world. Yet it is evident to any one who knowa
enough of spiritual philosophy to perceive that the spirit of one person may;
he revealed in another, that the prediction of Malachi and the declaration of
its fulfilment by Christ were strictly true, not literally, nor figuratively, but
spiritually, John the Baptist came ' in the spirit and power of Ehjah/
(Luke 1: 17,) i. e., he was identical with Elijah not in person but in spirit..
Elijah was manifested, not personally, nor yet in any figm^ative unreal sense,
but as a spirit actuating the person of John the Baptist. This is the only
method of reconciling the fulfilment with the prediction without doing vio-
lence ; and it is a satisfactory method ; but it is a method that introduces a
new element into the science of language. We learn from it that the Holy
Ghost uses words in a sense that may be called spiritual^ and is distinct from
the literal and the figurative senses. Tliis example is but a specimen of aa
extensive usage in the Bible.
GUIDE OP INTERPRETATION. 41
The truth is that the Bible brings to view things and relations for which
no human language was constructed. It must therefore of necessity use the
language of men in new ways. It is written 'not in words which man's wis-
dom teacheth, but in words which the Holy Ghost teacheth.' We must look
therefore to the GivcF of it, and not to lexicons and laws of language, as the
ultimate guide of interpretation. Prof. Stuart saj^s
—' If the same laws of
language are not observed in this revelation as are common to men, then
they have no guide to the right understanding of the scriptures.' He means
that they have no guide in their own independent wisdom ; for he adds
'and an interp-eter needs inspiration as much as the original writer.' This
is just what we insist upon ; and we see no very alarming consequences that
are to result from it. What good would come from men's being independent
of God in respect to the understanding of his word, we are at a loss to per-
ceive. But we can see that there may be a very great benefit in their being
placed under a necessity of seeking the help of the Holy Spirit in solving the
interesting problems which the Bible lays before them.
It is worthy of the consideration of those who think that the interpretation
of inspired writings by inspiration is an absurdity or a foolish superfluity, that
they themselves, in receivuig the New Testament interpretations of Old Tes-
tament predictions, lay at the very foundation of their views of prophecy, in-
spired interpretations of inspired writings. Christ and Peter and Paul are
our leaders in the interpretation of the prophets. We are absolutely depen-
dent on their guidance in determining the sense of many of the most inter-
esting passages of the Old Testament. For instance, who would undertake,
without their assistance, to determine which of the Psalms are Messianic ?
But these men were inspired ; and their interpretations are appealed to even
by the learned as inspired interpretations. We may ask Prof. Stuart, then,
whether their inspiration was or was not necessary to qualify them to inter-
pret the prophecies which they handled ? If it was, then those prophecies,
according to his reasoning, were '
no revelations.' According to our view,
they were no revelation to uninspired men, and were not designed to be.
And we believe that this is true of a large portion of the rest of the Bible ;
and of course that inspiration is now, as it manifestly was in the times of the
New Testament, an essential quahfication of a finished biblical interpreter. y/
Prof. Stuart lays down the following rule for the interpretation of t^pes :
" If it be asked, How far are we to consider the Old Testament as typical? 1 should
answer without any hesitation ; Just so much of it is to be regarded as typical, as the
New Testament affirms to be so; and no more. The fact, that any thing or event under
the Old Testament di^;pensation was designed to prefigure something under the new,
can be known to us only by revelation; and of course, all that is not designated by di-
vine authority as typical, can never be made so, by any authority less than that which
guided the writers of the scriptures." Ernesti, p. 17.
Now types may be regarded as prophecies expressed by things, instead of
words. There is no reason why typical prophecies may not be understood
and interpreted as easily as verbal. Yet in regard to the former Prof.
Stuart insists that we must have inspired interpretations, and allows no au-
thority to any other ; while ui regard to the latter, he gives no place to v^
inspiration as one of the necessary qualifications of an mterpreter
5
4ii GUIDE 9P INTERPRETATION.
^The ftnti-spiritual theory of hermcneutics la based on two fundamental er-
rors. The first relates to the design of the Bible. It is assumed by Prof*
Stuart that the Bible is designed to be a revelation in itself^ and in fact the
onli/ revelation from God to man. Whereas we learn from that book itself
that God's principal medium of communication with the church, under the
Christian dispensation, is the Holy Ghost. The Bible is to be regarded as a
text-book, designed, not to supersede^ but to assist the personal instructions
of the Paraclete. Prof. Stuart pubhshes Ernesti's manual of interpretation,
and places it in the hands of his exegetical class. Does he mean thereby to
8upei*sede his own lectures ? Suppose his pupils should say—' You have
given us a manual ; we have therefore no further need of your instructions
if this book needs to be expounded and illustrated by you, it is no manual at
all.* Would he not say to them '
I placed that book in your hands merely
as all auxiliary to my lectures. If you are to convert it into a substitute for
my personal instructions, and turn me out of the lecture-room, you would do
better to bum the book at once.' So, to make the Bible a substitute for the
teachings of the Spirit of truth, or to account it the principle medium of
divuie instruction, and the Spirit only secondary, or to use it in any way
other than as a text-book auxihary to the personal instructions of God, is to
pervert it from its true design, and grossly to abuse the Giver of it.
The second error relates to the normal condition of man. It is assumed
ty the anti-spirituahsts that meii, properly so called, and even Christian men
are not to expect the direct teachings of the Spirit. Inspiration is consider-
ed an anomalous condition of humanity, restricted to a favored few in ancient
times, not accessible to all, and therefore not to be regarded as the appropri-
ate condition of those who are to receive the scriptures. But to ns it is evi-
dent, that a state of personal spiritual communication with God (which is in
fact a state of inspiration) was the state of Adam in Eden, will he the state
of the redeemed in heaven, and is the state of Christians in this w^orld. We
consider this therefore as the natural, healthy condition of the race-—that for
which human nature was designed, and with a view to which it was construc-
ted ; and the uninspired state as a diseased abnormal condition. To us there*
fore it seems perfectly reasonable that the Bible—at least in all its deeper
parts—should be adapted to men more or less advanced in a state of
inspiration.
It is not to be understood from what we have said that we deny the abihty
of uninspired men to interpret those parts of the Bible which may be said to
belong to its humanity ; or that we undervalue philology and other resources
of ordinary criticism. We hold simply that miinspired men, with all their
resources, are utterly incompetent to interpret those parts of scripture which
&re concerned with the ' deep things of God ;' and that the Paraclete, in-
stead of the church as the Papists hold, or the philologists as Protestants
liold) ia the ultimate arbiter of bibhcal interpretation*
§ 7. OBJECTIONS OF ANTI-SPIRITUALISTS.
It will be objected against the views presented in several preceding arti.
cles, that the idea of open communication with God as the ultimate ground
of faith and source of interpretation, is the very charter of all fanaticism.
To this general charge, we may oppose the general reply, that the doctrine
of the existence of God, (which is back of the idea of communication with him)
is the more radical germ of all fanaticism ; and yet that doctrine is not the
less credible and wholesome. Or we may appeal to the undeniable fact, that,
belief in immediate access to God has been honored by patriarchs, prophets,
and apostles, as much as it has been disgraced by fanatics and impostors.
But this sweeping objection often assumes more specific forms. We find
men bold enough to affirm that sensible communication with the spirit of God
is impossible, and of course that all pretensions to it are delusive, and all as^
pirations after it presumptuous. The following extract from Coleridge's
^^Lids to Reflection' is a specimen of the reasoning and assertion to which we
refer, and on which we wish to remark
" Were it my task to form the mind ofa young' man desirons to establish his ophiionx
and belief on solid principles, and in the light of distinct understand i^ig-, I would com^
mence his theological studies, or, at least, the most important part of them respecting
the aids which religion promises in our attempts to realize the ideas of morality, by
bringing together all the passages scattered throughout the writings of Swift and But^
ler, that bear on enthusir.sm, spiritual operations, and pretenses to the gifts of th^
Spirit, vyith the whol.e train of new lights, raptures, experiences, and the like. For all
that the richest wit, in intimate union with profbund sense and steady observation, can
«!upply on these topics, is to be found in the works of these satirists ; though unhappily
alloyed with much that can only tend to pollute the imagination.
Without stopping to estimate the degree of carricature in the portraits sketched by
these bold masters, and without attempting to determine in how many of the enthusiasts
brought forward by them in proof of the influence of false doctrines, a constitutional
insanity that would probably have shown itself in some other Ibrm, w^ould be the truer
solution, I would direct my pupil's attention to one feature common to the whole group
—the pretence, namely, of possessing, or & belief and expectation grounded on other
men's assurances of their possessing, an immediate consciovsness, a sensible experience of
the Spirit, in and during its operation on the soul. It is not enough that you grant them a
consciousness of the gifts and graces infused, or an assurance of the spiritual origin of
the same, grounded on their correspondence to the scripture promises, and their conv
formity to the idea of the divine giver. No I they all alike, it will be tbuqd, lay clain)
(or at least Ipok forward) to an inioard perception of the Spirit, and of its operating.
Whatever must be misrepresented in order to be ridiculed, is in fact not ridiculed ;
but the thing substituted for it. It is a satire on something else, coupled with a lie on
the part of the sqitirist, who knowing, or having the means of knowing the truth, cl>080
to call one thing by the name of another. The pretensions to the supernatural, pillorie4
by Butler, sent to bedlam by Swift, and (on their re-appearance in public) gibbeted by
Warburton, and anatomized by Bishop Laving(on, one and all have this fortli^ir esseur
tial character, that the Spirit is made the immediate object of sense or sensation. Whether
the spiritual presence and agency are supposed cognizable by indescribable feeling or
unimaginable vision by some specific visual energy; whether seen or heard, or touched,
smelt, and lasted —for in those vast storehouses of fanatical assertion, the Vjoluroes of
ecclesiastical history and auto-biography, instances are qpt wanting of the Ihree latter
extravagances, —this variety in the mode may render the several pretensions more or
less offensive to the taste; but with the same absurdity for the reason, this beingr dep-
rived from a contradiction in terms common and radical to them all alike, the assumpr
tion of a something essentially supersensiial, that is neyerl.hele^s the object of seijsg^
that is, not supersensual." jp. Jig,
44 OBJECTIONS OF ANTI-SPIRITUALISTS.
The enthusiasts alluded to, ought not to be charged with a ' contradiction
iw terms,'* for they certainly never use the terms ascribed to them by Cole-
ridge. Who ever heard of an enthusiast, who first defined the spirit as some-
thing '
essentially supersensual,' and then affirmed that it is an object of
sense ? The definition belongs to Coleridge, not to the enthusiasts ; and the
contradiction is between their doctrine and his definition, not between the
terms of their doctruie. Coleridge assumes, that the spirit is ' essentially
supersensual,' and then assumes that every body admits his assumption—the
enthusiasts of whom he is speaking among the rest—and so lays the founda-
tion of his charge of self-contradiction, in a twofold assumption of his own !
We are not disposed to admit that the spirit is ' essentially supersensual,*
in the sense which Coleridge attaches to that expression. We agree that it
is not cognizable by the five bodily senses. But this does not satisfy Cole-
ridge. He denies that the spirit is immediately cognizable by any 'inward
perception,' by '
consciousness or any sensible experience,' by spiritual ' feel-
ing or vision ;'
and this is what he means by the word supersensual. He
would have expressed himself more accurately, if he had used some such term
a$ super-perceptible, which excludes every mode of cognizance, spiritual as
well as sensual. We object to calling all possible modes of direct perception,
sensual, for that word has commonly been used in connection with the corpo-
real senses, in contrast to the word spiritual, and so has contracted a con-
temptible meaning. We believe that the Spirit is super-sensual, in the ^^rop-
er meaning of that word, i. e. that it is above the cognizance of the corporeal
senses, but we do not believe that it is super-perceptible.
It is certauily too much to assume that the five bodily senses are the only
modes of direct perception, and call all other supposed modes, ' indescriba-
ble' and ' imimaginable,' as though they were chimerical. By which of the
five senses does a man perceive his own thoughts ? He certainly neither
sees, nor hears, nor touches, nor smells, nor tastes them, and yet he per-
ceives them, and that not merely by their effects, but directly. In fact, the
mode of perception by which a man takes cognizance of his own thoughts,
or which is the same thing, of his own spirit, is the most direct conceivable ;
for whereas in all external perception the perceiving power acts through
material organs, which are to it as the telescope to the eye, in reflection or
consciousness, the perceiving power acts without any intervening organ ; the
man perceives liis own thoughts, or his own spirit, as it were, with the naked
eye. If it is admitted (as w^e suppose it is) that the five senses are only
five modes by which one p)erceiving power, called the mind or spirit, takes
cognizance of the outward- world, is it reasonable to suppose that that one
perceiving power has no 'visual energy' in its naked independent state, and
with relation to objects in immediate contact with, and homogeneous to itself?
As well might we say, that a man in a room with five windows, has no visual
power but that which he employs in looking abroad. Whereas, in fact, his
perception of things within the room is more direct and naked, than any
possible perception of things outside tlie windows. So it is when spirit looks
on spirit.
Consciousness is admitted to be the very highest kind of evidence ; more
OBJECTIONS OF ANTI-SPIRITUALISTS. 45
8ui*e than that of the senses ; and consciousness is nothing but self-percep-
tion, i. e. spirit looking at spirit. There is nothing in the nature of things
so far as we can judge abstractly, which should preclude a man's spirit from
perceiving any other spirit as well as his own. If a man can perceive by
direct sensation, his own thoughts, (as he does in memory,) why may we not
suppose, that under favorable circumstances, by a great increase of spiritual
energy, or by special intimacy of spiritual fellowship, he might in the same
way perceive the thoughts of others? There is abundant evidence that this
actually takes place in the case of the subjects of animal magnetism. It is
said of Jesus that he 'perceived tlie thoughts* of the people around him
and the power of 'discerning spirits' was one of the gifts of the primitive
church. Spirits in general, then, are not super-perceptible ; and we have
no reason to believe that the Spirit of God is an exception to this principle.
The metaphysical argument on this subject, so far as it goes, would lead us to
presume that men in a suitable state of spirituality, may perceive the Spirit
of God, even more sensibly and nakedly than any material object.
We will now appeal more directly to the Bible for evidence on the point
in question. And in the first place, we would ask those who, like Locke and
Coleridge, still maintain the sensual maxim of the heathen logician nihil in
intellectu quod nan prius in sensu^ [nothing was ever in the intellect, which
was not first in the sense, i. e. in the corporeal senses,] by which of the five
senses men perceived those spiritual thuigs, which were manifested in the
visions which abound in the records of scripture ? For instance, when Paul
was caught up to the third heaven, and hnew not whether he tvas in the body
or out, which of his corporeal senses perceived the things which he reports
himself to have seen and heard ? or are we to beheve that his report is a
muthos or fable, and that he actually perceived nothing but the phantoms
of his imagination, which originally entered his mind by his corporeal senses ?
In a word, are angels, disembodied souls, and all celestial things, as well as
the Spirit, supersensual in the sense of super-percep)tible ? If they are per-
ceptible, and yet not by the corporeal senses, is it not certain that man is
capable of an ' inward visual energy,^ adapted to the perception of spiritual
substances ?
Again, if the operations of the Spirit are cognizable only by the '
gifts
and graces infused' by it, how shall we explain the process of inspiration f
When the ' word of the Lord' came to the prophets, it was certainly the
' immediate object' of a sense of some kuid. So when '
the Spirit bade*
Peter go to Cornelius, (Acts 10: 19,) who can doubt that he heard in some
way, the words which are reported ? The sound as of a mighty rushing
wind, which came from heaven on the day of Pentecost, was certainly pro-
duced by the Holy Ghost, and as certainly was an object of sensation.
The Spirit is represented ui scripture, as a life given to men, and by their
faith received into their life. Is it conceivable that the soul should receive
life and not feel it, or perceive it in any way but by its objective results ?
External observers may uideed know its presence only by its fruits : but
shall we beheve that the soul itself, in naked union with the vital energy of
God, has no way of perceiving the presence of that energy but by observa^
46 OBJECTIONS OP ANTI-SPIRITUALISTS.
tion of its effects, and by inference ? The following language evidently rep-
resents the presence of God by his Spirit in the soul, as a matter of direct
perception :
" I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another Comforter, that he
may abide with you forever ; even the Spirit of truth, whom the world can
not receive, because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him : but ye know him ;
for he dwelleth with you, and shall be in you. I will not leave you com-
fortless : I will come to you. Yet a little while, and the world seeth me no
more ; but ye see me; because I live, ye shall live also. At that day ye
shall know that I am in my Father, and ye in me, and I in you. He that
hath my commandments, and keepeth them, he it is that loveth me ; and he
that loveth me shall be loved of my Father ; and I w^ill love him, and will
mawfent myself to him. Judas saith unto him, (not Iscariot,) Lord, how
is it that thou wilt manifest thyself unto us, and not unto the world ? Jesus
answered and said mito him. If a man love me, he Avill keep my w^ords : and
my Father will love him, and we will come unto him, and make our abode
with him." John 14: 16—23.
' He that is joined unto the Lord is one spirit,' i. e., one spirit with the
Lord, as they that are married are one. (See 1 Cor. 6: 17, and context.)
This being true, if a Christian can feel his own spirit, he can feel the Spirit
of the Lord; for they twain are one. Thus consciousness itself, the most
direct mode of perception possible, may be brought to bear on the Spirit of
God. Li fact the faith of salvation is not our own, but ' the faith of the
Son of G-odi! and yet we feel it. How ? Most clearly by unity with his
Spirit, and by fellowship with his consciousness. Li the same way also, Hhe
Spirit heareth witness tvith our spirit^ that we are the children of God.'
But the Spirit of God works not only in the soul, but in the body. By the
Spirit Jesus healed diseases, cast out devils, raised the dead, &c. Is it
probable that an agent that wrought such mighty visible effects, was itself
altogether imperceptible ? When '
Jesus perceived that virtue was gone
out of him,'' we doubt not that the woman perceived that the same virtue
had entered into her blood. It is said '
the fountain of her blood was dried
up ; and she felt in her body that she was healed of that plague.* '
If the
Spirit of him that raised up Jesus from the dead, dwell in you, he that raised
up Christ from the dead shall also quicken your mortal bodies, by his Spirit
that dwelleth in you.' Rom.- 8: 11. Can the body be quickened, without
feeling that which quickens it ?
We see that according to Coleridge's test, the Bible itself is a ' vast store-
liouse of fanatical assertion ;' and its ' pretensions to the supernatural,' are
of the same sort with those which were ' pilloried by Butler, sent to bedlam
hy Swift, gibbeted by Warburton, and anatomized by Bishop Lavington,'
M
^8. THE FAITH ONCE DELIVERED TO THE SAINTS.
It is apparent to the most superficial inspection of the scriptures, that the
Ireligion even of the Old Testament saints, and much more that of the prim-
itive church, was one which placed man in direct communication with God.
Not a saint can be found among all whose names are enrolled on the inspired
record—from Abel to the last of the apostles—whose biography does not
savor strongly of that marvelousness which necessarily waits upon the open
manifestations of Divinity. Dreams, visions, oracles, angelic visitations,
conversations with God, inspirations, infusions of superhuman power, &c.,
are profusely scattered through the history of Judaism. And yet the glory
of New Testament Christianity as far exceeds that of the preceding dispen-
sation, in respect to all these and many other manifestations of God's pres-
ence, as sun-light exceeds star-light.*
* Phrenologists define hiarX'elousness to be ' c'reduIity--disposition to believe Vvhat is
not proved, or what are considered supernatural manifestations.' (Fowler (^' Kirkham^
p. 141.) Spurzheira says it is '
a tendency to believe in inspirations, presentiments,
phantoms.' &o. Combe says the org-an of marvelousness *
is uniformly large in fanat-
ics. It predominates in the Rev. Edward Irving, and in all his followers whom I have
seen.' (Combe s Phrenology, p. 79.) By the marvelousness of the Bible, v^'e mean that
characteristic of the Bible which requires 'marvelousness' in those who receive it. The
following statistics give the result of a running examination of the whole Bible with
reference to this point
MARVELOUS EVENTS RECORDED IN THE BIBLE.
Supernatural omens, - - • - - 14
SigniHcant dreams, - - - - 23
Appearances of angels and other supernatural beings, - - 51
Supernatural visions^ - - - - 66
Miracles specifically mentioned, (not including the vast number alluded to in
Matt. 8: 16, and like passages,) ... 175
Inspired prophecies, revelations, and other direct communications from the Lord, 449
Total, 778
The items here enumerated, by no means embrace all the matter in the Bible that
might be classed under the head of marvelousness. Special providences, religious ex-
ercises like those described in many of the psalms, and in short every recognition of the
presence and direct agency of God or any other invisible being, might be placed in the
same category. But the statistics already given are suflicient for our purpose. It is
manifest that marvelousness is a very prominent characteristic of the Bible; and any
one who will take the trouble to examine, may see that it pervades every part, we might
almost say, every page of the book. It is not confined to those portions which were
written in the earlier and darker ages of Judaism. Modern philosophy teaches that
supernatural wonders diminish, as light increases. But we find the contrary of this
true of the Bible. The character and history of Jesus Christ is surrounded with more
of the materials of marvelousness, than that of Moses and the prophets. The new
dispensation which he ir.troduced, with all its increase of light, was accompanied by
dreams, visions, appearances of angels, miracles, revelations and wonders of every
kind, in greater abundance than ever was known before. The New Testament begins
with the record of the supernatural conception of Jesus Christ, and ends with a gorgeous
vision of the spiritual world.
Thus it is manifest that the Bible is fitted to feed and perpetuate what the sages of
these philosophical times caW fanaticism. A book, filled with excellent stories of special
providences, miraculous deliverances, angelic visions, spiritual ecstasies, &c. &c.,—
and especially a book which is so implicitly credited as the Bible—cannot be generally
read without begetting in many minds the image of its own spirit. Such men as Swe-
48 THB FAITH ONCE DELIVERED TO THE SAINTS.
The main difference between the two dispensations, was this : In accord-
ance with the general character of the introductory dispensation, God mani-
fested himself to the Jewish saints in an external mamier ; i. e., by visions,
vocal oracles, angels, or at the most by tnbse external influences of the
Spirit which affect, as it ^vere, only the outer surface of the soul, as in the
case of prophetic inspiration. Whereas he manifested himself to Christian
behevers in the deep sanctuary of their hearts, making them radically new
creatures, taking away their sins, and giving them full and permanent fel-
lowship with his own vitality. The indwelling of God was a mystery w^hich
was '
hid from the ages and generations' of Judaism, but was manifested to
the primitive church. There was also this further difference. God manifes-
ted himself, even externally, only to a few under the Jewish dispensation.
Whereas the promise of Christianity was, '
I will pour out my spirit upon
all flesh : and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, and your young
men shall see visions, and your old men shall dream dreams.' This promise
was fulfilled. The special manifestations which had before been confined to
a few individuals in every age, were given, on the day of Pentecost and
afterwards, to the w^hole church of God.
These differences, however, do not destroy the identity of faith under the
two dispensations. The religion of both—i. e. the religion of the whole Bible
—was based on immediate communication with God. The later manifesta-
tions were more complete, spiritual and universal, and of course produced
greater changes of character, than the earlier ; but the faith which invited
and apprehended those manifestations, was the same in all ages. Hence
Paul, in the 11th of Hebrews, traces the history of one and the same faith,
by a continuous line, from the beginning of the world till the advent of per-
fection by Christianity. The generic element in all the instances of faith
which he adduces—and in the faith of Christianity as well as Judaism,—is an
apprehension of, and confidence in the living God, as actually present, man-
ifesting himself by signs and wonders, communicating superhuman wisdom
and power, overrulmg, for the believer's comfort and protection, the powers
of the spiritual and natural worlds.
We must distinctly mark the difference between tliis faith, and several
counterfeits which have been extensively substituted for it.
1. Many talk about 'contending earnestly for the faith once delivered to
the saints,' as though this were to be referred to theological controversy^
and as though the faith of the saints were belief in a mere scheme of doc-
trine. But was it by belief in an orthodox creed that the saints '
stopped the
denborg- and Irving', however false and pernicious may have been their views in other
respects, were certainly more nearly in spiritual concord with the Bible, in respect to
marvelousness, than the philosophers and theolog-ians who deride them. And while
marvelonsne&s remains a part of human nature, and the Bible is allowed to feed it, we
may assuredly look for the nppearance of such 'fanatics' adinfinitum. Those conserv-
ators therefore, of the public morals, whose business it is to put down 'pestilent
heresies,' must either return to the policy of Popery, and forbid the reading of the Bible
by any but the clergy, (and even then some cicricaZ enthusiast like Luther will break
forth,) or they must give up their business, and seek the welfare of mankind by en-
deavoring to enlighten and purify the fanatical propensities, which they can neither
Bnnother nor control.
THE FAITH ONCE DELIVERED TO THE SAINTS. 49
mouths of lions, quenched the violence of fire, escaped the edge of the
sword, out of weakness were made strong V Nothing can he plainer than
that '
the faith once delivered to the saints,' as exemplified by Paul in the
11th of Hebrews, was directed, not toward doctrines, but toward the living
Qod.
2. Philosophers and poets have an apprehension of God as manifested in
the ' tlie ivorks of nature^^
which they call faith. But this implies no personal
acquaintance with God. Believers of this kind sustain no nearer relation
to God than one man would to another, in case the parties had never seen
each other, or had any communication—but only had seen each other's pro-
ductions. Whereas the faith exhibited in the Bible, manifestly introduced
the saints to personal fellowship with God, so that they walked with him, con-
versed with him, received messages and messengers from him, and lived un-
der his immediate protection and superintendence.
3. The faith of many religious persons consists in receiving the Bible as the
word of God. They apprehend God as revealed through the scriptures.—
This kind of faith is like that last mentioned—only the believer in this case-
has not merely seen the works of the unknown being, but has received a letter
from him, which he reveres and believes. The letter however is not address-
ed to him individually, but is a circular sent '
to all whom it may concern.'
So that there is still no personal acquaintance.
4. Another class of religionists, a little in advance of the former, by syste-
matizing the legal developments of the Bible, build up in their minds what
they call a moral government, and place God at the head of it as king over
moral beings. Their faith apprehends God in his official capacity. The re-
lation between him and them is that of king and subject. Their king, like
the kings of this world, is high and lifted up, far above his common subjectSy
distant and reserved. They see him only through his laws and state trans-
actions. In all this there is no personal acquaintance, no vital union. God
thus apprehended, is not in the believer, ruling by spiritual power, but over
him' ruling by written laws. This is not ' the faith once delivered to the saints.*
5. Many of those already mentioned, and others, go so far as to admit
certain measures of God's j^ersonal influence. They conceive of him not on-
ly as manifested through his works, his word, and his moral government, but
as operating by his spirit on the mind. But they are careful to disclaim any
thing like revelation, inspiration, and supernatural power. They regard the
operations of the Spirit as only imperceptible auxiliaries to the truth, influ-
ences which never manifest themselves directly to the consciousness, or in
any other way ; and which never would be recognized at all, if the Bible did
not testify of their existence. This is the worst counterfeit of all ; for while
it appropriates to itself much of the language of the ancient saints, and so
makes itself the most respectable substitute for Bible faith, it as effectually
excludes the living God from his proper place in the heart, and in the church,
as any of the grosser forms of unbelief. It is this kind of faith which, while
pretending to honor the spiritual poAver of God as the chief agent of salvation,
yet dares not trust it, but thrus* the law into its place as^the great presiding
influence ; and makes the Spirit its secondary adjunct. It is this kind of
6
60 THH FAITH OXCE BELITERKD TO TH12 SAINTS,
faith which daubs over the apostasy of Christendom from the standard of the*
primitive saints, by teaching that 'the age of mirades is past'—an assumptiony
or rather a presumptuoias falsehood, ^vhich is better fitted to destroy the legit-
imate influence of the Bible than all the enactments of Popery ; since the
Bible relates only to an age of miracles-^-its entire religion and morality is«
indissolubly mterwoven with supernatural manifestations : it is therefore adap-
ted only to an age of miracles, and if it were time that the age of miracles 19^
p^ist, men of the present day would have little more practical interest in it
than they have in the Arabian Nights' Entertainment. It is this kind of
faith, whicli, while it loudly praises the prophets and apostles, derides as vis-
ionary enthusiasm every approach toward that direct communication with God
wliich was the glory of prophets and apostles ; and thus covertly, but really
casts infamy on the entire religion of the Bible, and on all the saints of God^
The true faith, of which the foregoing are counterfeits, while it recognizes
the reflection of divine radiance in the works of nature, in the Bible, and in
the moral government of the universe, still turns with chief interest to the
direct manifestations of God by his Spirit ; and it limits not the Holy One to
imperceptible and dubious influences, but gives him room to reveal himself
now, as in past ages, by all the appropriate operations of his infinite energy^
There is an intrinsic and palpable absurdity in the idea of admitting the
Spirit of God into the world, and yet curtailing its appropriate and formerly
actual manifestations, under the plea that the age of miracles is past. The
age of miracles cert'\inly is not past with God. He is as mighty as ever ;
and wherever his Spirit comes at all, there is superhuman, i. e., miraculous
power ; and if miraculous power is admitted into the world in the smallest
degree, it cannot be said that the age of miracles is past with reference to
man ; and the w^ay is therefore open for all the primitive manifestations of
divine power. And then, how irrational it is to suppose that the same agent
which once gave to man gifts of superhuman wisdom and powder, is still
present, but only as a latent auxiliary of the clergy ! What a blasphemous
descent is this, from the subhme to the ridiculous ! As well might a purbhnd
dotard say that the sun still shines, but the age of daylight is past, and only
one of the seven colors Avhich were the elements of ancient sunlight,—and
that the dimmest—is now given to the world
We repeat it—the great central idea of ' the faith once delivered to the
saints,' was that of tlie living God present in individual believers and in
the church, and manifest by manifold tokens of superhuman wisdom and
power. And let it be observed that the relation between God and man which
this idea involves, is not, as unbelief would suggest, uimatural, and foreign
from the original design of man's constitution. God made man in his own
image, with the very intent that this relation should exist between them
that man should be the temple, or, we may say, the complement of God.
Adam at the beginning lived in open companionship with his Maker. As
"Woman was married to man, so man was married to God. And it was to
restore this union, which sin had severed, that the Son of God was made
flesh, and suftered death. The renewal ana everlasting confirmation of the
at-one-ment which eijdsted between God and the first Adam, was the great
THE FAITH ONCE ©ELIVEEBD TO THE SAINTS. k^
achievement of the second Adam. Moreover, it is plainly predicted in scrip-
ture that tlio human race in its final glory, shall return to open companionship
with God—that ' his tabernacle shall be with men, and he shall dwell with
them, and shall be their God.' A relation which existed at the beginning
which Christ came and died to estabhsh—which will exist in the final state of
man, cannot be unnatural. On the contrary, the present ordinary condition
of mankind, hving without God, is unnatural—at variance utterly with their
-original constitution. Man without his original spiritual Head, is as mucli
out of the order of nature, as woman without a husband. The apostasy is
ifche widowhood of the human race.
As the manifest indwelling of God is the essence of Bible religion, so it is
the corner stone of Bible morality, education, social order, and physical well-
being. All schemes of reform and improvement for soul and body, which
have not this for their starting point and their end, however popular and
promising they may be, are as certainly impostures as the Bible is a book of
truth, and man was made to be the temple of his Maker. Who but a
madman can expect to check the spiritual and physical disorders of social
life, and restore mankind to harmony and happiness, while the first great
wheel of the Avhole machinery by which the result is to be attained, is want-
ing ? Trees without roots will as soon bud and blossom and bring forth fruit,
as man will attain holiness of heart, virtue of action, wisdom of thought and
health of body, without the indwelling of God.
The true reason why the great Reformation by Luther has failed, is that
it turned the faith of the world to the Bible, rather than to God. Protes-
tants are learning by sore experience that the Bible is not a '
sufficient rule
©f faith and practice.' Tiie numberless and still multiplying schisms of the
reformed churches, are making it more and more manifest that the balance-
wheel of original Christianity is not yet recovered—that the Bible, without
inspiration as the regulator of interpretation, is but an '
apple of discord.'
In like manner all the subordinate reforms of more recent date which have
any thing but the living God for their centre and propelling power, will
sooner or later fail.
On the other hand, let the foundation of Bible faith be laid,—let God be
invited by believing hearts to make his tabernacle with men, and reveal all
the glory of his wisdom and power as he revealed it to the primitive church
let Him be installed and acknowledged as the ever-present and presiding
Genius of Reform, and speedily sin and death will flee away, and the earth
become as Eden.
Let all, then, w^ho seek salvation for themselves, or long for the regener-
ation of the world—' contend earnestly/ for the faith ONCE deliveeed to
§ 9. THE AGE OF SPIRITUALISM.
The whole world seems to be looking for a Revolution. Some expect an
orthodox Millennium ; others, a golden age of phrenology ; others still, a
physiological regeneration of the human race ; and not a few are awaiting,
in anxious or hopeful suspense, the trump of the Second Advent, and the day
of judgment. AVe also are looking for a Revolution ; and we will endeavor
to set forth our idea of the form in which we expect it will appear.
Dividing human nature into four departments, viz., the physical, moral,
INTELLECTUAL, and SPIRITUAL, WO hold that man can be truly regenerated
only by the paramount development of his spiritual nature. Accordingly
we beheve that the great change w^hich is coming, will be an outburst of
spiritual knowledge and power—a conversion of the world from sensuality,
from carnal morality, and from brain-philosophy, to spiritual wisdom and life.
It has been said that the Bible was not designed to teach any of the natural
sciences. But the time will come when that book will be acknowledged as
the great repository of the facts and principles of a science which rightfully
takes precedence of all others, viz., spiritual philosophy—the science
which treats of the nature, power, attraction, repulsion, and fellowship of
spirits ; which refers health, wdsdom, and righteousness, to the energy of
God ; and disease, fatuity and sin, to the power of the devil ; which thus
points out, as the only means of radical reformation, the expulsion of the
spirit of evil on the one hand, and spiritual union with God on the other.
This is the science which in the phenomena of its practical application,
gleamed out from time to time along the whole course of the Jewish dispen-
sation ; which blazed up and for a little space lighted the whole earth in the
time of Christ and the apostles ; and which is destined, notAvithstanding all
the attempts of unbehef to quench it, by covering it with the infamy of
mysticism, to break forth again, consume the partition between heaven and
earth, and become the judgment-fire of the world.
We have come to the belief that such a Revolution is approaching, by
several distinct lines of argument, which we will briefly trace.
I. If our fourfold division of human nature is correct, we may expect to
find in the growth and education of the race of man, under the superinten-
dence of God, a progression from the physical to the moral, from the moral
to the intellectual, and from the intellectual to the spiritual. Accordingly,
the past history of the world may be legitimately divided into three distinct
periods, corresponding to three of these departments. The first extends from
Adam to Moses, and may be called, the period of pliydcal development
the only account we have of it, represents it as a period of physical longevity
and sensuality : it certainly was not a period of either moral or intellectual
discipline. The second extends from Moses to Christ, and may be called
the period of moral development, as it was distinguished by the administra-
tion of the Mosaic law, and the special moral training of the Jewish nation.
The tlurd estQuds from Christ to the present time, and may be called, the
THE AGE OF SPIRITUALISM. 53
period of intellectual development. The Gentiles, who took the place of the
Jews in the school of God after the destruction of Jerusalem, have never
equalled them in moral strength, but have far exceeded them in intellectual
attainments. 'The (rreA seek after wisdom ;' (ICor. 1: 22 ;) and Greek
and Latin wisdom has been the predominant element of Gentile Christianity.
Scholarship, rather than moral power, has been, and is, the test of eminence
among the clergy. The harvest of this third period has been a wonderful
advance of '
science' in every direction.
Three periods, then, of the education of the world are past. The fourth,
i. e., the period of spiritual development, is that which is approaching.
II. By a more particular survey of the history of the Jewish and Gentile
churches, we shall come again to the same conclusion. During the first
thousand years of the Mosaic dispensation, i. e., down to the last Babylonish
captivity, God instructed and disciplined the Jews, chiefly by ceremonies,
providential and miraculous manifestations, and occasional inspiration of
individuals. The mass of the nation were ignorant of letters ; and for a long
time the only copy of the law in existence, was that deposited in the ark of
the covenant. The employment of the Bible as a means of general instruc-
tion, dates from the period of Ezra, after the return from Babylon. At
that time copies of the WTitings of Moses and the prophets began to be mul-
tiplied and circulated, synagogues were built, and the Jews as a nation came
under the influence of the letter of the word of God. This we may call the
first reformation of the Jewish church.
After several centuries, when the way had been prepared by the letter,
the Spirit of the word of God was given. The Holy Ghost was poured upon
the primitive church—not merely on a few favored individuals, but on all
who believed—and wrought in them, and by them, not only all manner of
signs and wonders, but righteousness and salvation. All were taught of
God. All were admitted to personal acquaintance with the Father. This
we may call the second reformation of the Jewish church.
Passing now to the Gentile church which succeeded the primitive, we find
that the process just described was, in the course of a few centuries, com-
pletely reversed. As the Jewish church received first the letter, and then
the Spirit ; so the Gentile church, descending by the same steps which the
Jewish church had ascended, lost first the Spirit, and then the letter of the
word of God. The ministers of the primitive church aspired to be only the
servants of the Holy Spirit. It was their business not so much to teach the
people themselves, as to introduce them to the great invisible teacher, the
Spirit of truth. But the time soon came when the bishops enlarged their
office, and became the principal teachers of the people. Of course they
crowded the Spirit out of the world. This w^as the first step of apostasy from
the word of God.
In process of time, the bishops began to be jealous of the Bible also, as
being a teacher that in part superseded their office. Accordingly they took
upon them to forbid the common use of it. The people were cut off" from the
letter^ as well as the Spirit of the word of God. This was the second step of
the apostasy ; aud it consigned the Gentile chuixh to the dungeon of the dark
bi THE AGE OF SPIRITUALISM.
ages. There it lay a thousand years. Then commenced another reforma-
tion.
We are prepared by our previous observations to anticipate the nature and
process of this return to the word of God. As the Jewish church ascended^
and the Gentile church descended, each by two steps, so we naturally look
for two steps in the re-ascension of the Gentiles. As the Jews received first
the letter and then the Spirit, and the Gentiles lost first the Spirit and then
the letter, we may presume that in returning from their apostasy the Gen-
tiles A\dll recover first the Bible and then the Holy Ghost.
This presumption exactly accords with the actual history of the Gentile
reformation, so far as it has yet advanced. The great achievment of Wick-
liffe, Huss, Luther and Calvin, was the rescue of the Bible from its imprison-
ment. The motto of Protestantism is 'The Bible is the only and sufficienit
rule of faith and practice.'' In the translation and universal circulation of
the scriptures, which has been accomplished within the last few centuries, we
recognize the first reformation of the Gentile church, corresponding to the
work of Ezra and the fathers of the Jewish sjniagogue. But the second
reformation is yet to come. The letter of the word of God has been recov-
ered, but the Spirit remains yet to be won. The labors of Luther and Cal-
vin have not restored to the Gentile church the inspiration and divine power
of the day of Pentecost. Protestantism has no more of the spiritual glory
which cro^vned the primitive church, than Popery ; in fact it is an accepted
proverb through all reformed Christendom, that ' the age of miracles is past;'
and by that is meant, that the age of the manifestation of the power-and glory
of the Holy Spirit is past, never to return ; that all pretensions to inspiration,
and spiritual power, such as attended the morning of Christianity, are out of
date and under sentence of infamy.
The first reformation, then, has not restored original Christianity, and the
•analogy of past history clearly instructs us to expect a second reformation,
:as much more glorious than the first, as the day of Pentecost was more glo-
irious than Ezra's feast of tabernacles.
III. The signs of the times indicate that God is making ready for a great
^spiritual manifestation. In the midst of the idolatrous enthusiasm of the day
ifor physical improvement, legal morality, and scientific discovery, there is a
^visible movement of the public mind toward spiritual truth. Germany, the
ipioneer-land of the Reformation, the emporium of human wisdom, notwith-
i-standing its '
rationalism,' is teeming with psychological theories, which our
iphlegmatic intellectualists call '
mysticisms ;' but which in fact are approxi-
miations to the Spiritual Philosophy of the Bible. From Germany the leaven
(has gone forth into England and this country. Men of note in the learned
.•and religious world, are not ashamed to indulge in speculations, which once
would have been classed with the hallucinations of Swedenborg and Ann
Lee. Nor is the spiritualizing leaven confined to those upper classes whose
ileisure and cultivation, allow them to philosophize. '
Mysticism' has assumed
a visible and popular form in the phenomena of Mesmerism, and has gone
•out into the ' highways and hedges,' compelling men, high and low, to believe
ihat spirits are actusd and potent substances ; tliat life can dwell in life, and
SPIRITUAL NATURE OF MAN. 55
Will actuate will. We know, that both these movements—the philosophical
and popular—are only approximations to the development of true Spiritual
Philosophy, and that they are associated more or less with unbelief and
worldly motives in their advocates. Yet we regard them as influences, sent
and directed by heaven, to turn the minds of men toward the invisible world
—premonitory symptoms of the approaching spiritual Revolution.
As the mariner, when he has taken an observation, and ascertained his
place on the chart, knows how to trim his sails and set his helm, so we, with
these views of the position of the world, and of the counsels of God, find our
pathway clearly marked out. Our business is to be co-workers with God in
ushering in the last period of man's education—the second Reformation
the victory and reign of spiritual wisdom and poiver. In devoting ourselves
to this object, we have the satisfaction of knowing that we are not acting
under the influence of blind and therefore impotent benevolence ; that w^e
'run not as uncertainly, and fight not as one that beateth the air.' The
direction of our course is parallel with the visible current of human destiny,
and with the manifest movements and purposes of God.
The views which have been presented, also direct us to the means by
which we may most effectually co-operate with God in the spiritual regenera-
tion of mankind. As the Bible is the great manual of Spiritual Philosophy,
our main business as co-workers with him, is to serve as door-keepers to the
Bible—to do what we can to make all men '
meditate therein day and night
;'
and especially to bring forth into due prominence the spiritual doctrmes of
the Bible,
§ 10. THE SPIRITUAL NATURE OF MAN.
I. What is a spirit ? The dictionaries answer ^An immaterial sub-
stance;^ which is the same as to say, ' It is not matter I' —a definition too
negative to give any valuable information. We answer—It is Sb fluid; having
many of the properties of caloric, light, electricity, galvanism and magnet-
ism ; and, in addition to these, having powers of assimilation, growth, and
self-originated motion, being susceptible of personality, feehng, inteUigence,
and will.
If any object to our calling spirit a fluid, we appeal for authority to the
Bible. On almost every page of that book, the language commonly used
with reference to the nature and operations of air, water, and other fluids,,
is applied to spirits. For examples, see Matt. 3: 11, John 7: 38, 39, and
20: 22, Acts 2: 2, and 10: 44, 45, 1 Cor. 12: 13, Eph. 5: 18.
If it is still objected that it savors of materialism, to say that spirits have
many of the properties of caloric, hght, electricity, &c., we appeal again to
the Bible. Without adverting particularly to the representations in scrip-
ture, of powers in spirits analogous to the pervading quality of caloric, th^
56 SPIRITUAL NATmiE OF MAN.
radiation of light, &c., it is sufficient for our present purpose to refer tlie
reader to a few passages in which one of the special characteristics of elec-
tricity—its poAver of passing from one point to another by material conductors
—^is attributed to the spiritual fluid. See Luke 8 : 43—46. Acts 8 : 17,
18, and 19 : 12.
Our definition should not be accused of materialism, till it is settled, that
caloric, hght, electricity, galvanism and magnetism, are material substances.
Turner, in the hitroduction to his Chemistry, (p. 15) says that the imponder-
able fluids are ' agents of so diffiisible and subtle a nature, that the common
attributes of matter cannot be perceived in them. They are altogether
destitute of weight ; at least, if they possess any, it cannot be discovered by
our most dehcate balances. They cannot be confined and exhibited in mass
like ordinary bodies ; they can be collected only through the intervention of
other substances. Their title to be considered material is therefore question-
able.'
But admitting that these fluids are material, still it will be seen that our
definition assigns to the spiritual fluid only a part of their properties, and
places it in a category beyond them, by attributing to it vital powers. Turner
says— ' Matter, though susceptible of motion, has no power either to move
itself, or to arrest its progress when an impulse is once communicated to it.'
(p. 13.) This is the true point of distinction between matter and spirit.
The one has power of action in itself; the other has none. Our definition,
therefore, by superadding to the properties of caloric, hght, electricity, &c.,
the power of self-originated motion^ as one of the attributes of spirit, places
spirit beyond the boundaries of matter.
We freely confess that we are so far materialists, that we believe there is
no such vast chasm between spirit and matter as is generally imagined, but
that the two touch each other, and have properties in common—that caloric,
light, electricity, galvanism and magnetism, are in some sense, connecting
links between the material and spiritual worlds—that spirit is in many res-
pects like these fluids, and is as truty substantial as they. We do not ascribe
to spirit 'length, breadth and thickness,' in the common acceptation of those
words, because the nature of all fluids precludes those properties. Who ever
thinks of attributing length, breadth and thickness to the sunlight ? One
would not know how to measure or which w^ay to go in taking the dimensions
of such a substance. Yet if a specific portion of any fluid is separated from the
mass and confined in a solid vessel, that portion of fluid assumes the length,
breadth and thickness of the vessel. So if a specific portion of spirit or life
is confined in an animal form, that life assumes the length, breadth and thick-
ness of that form. In this sense we believe that spirits have length, breadth
and thickness.
Materialism is not the only error men are liable to fall into in their specula-
tions on spiritual science. Every extreme has its opposite. There is a vast
amount of morbid «?ifMnaterialism among religionists and metaphysicians.
When the notion that spirit is an '
immaterial substance,' is carried so far as
to deny all substantial qualities to spiritual beings, we call it etherialism, or
ht/joer-spiritualisnif and regard it as an errpr quite as pernicious as materiahsm.
SPIRITUAL NATURE OV MAN. 67
II. What is a soul ? We will seek an answer to this question, by
examining the account which the Bible gives of the original creation of man.
'
The Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground, and breathed into
his nostrils the breath of life, and man became a living soul.' Gen. 2:7.
Man then was compounded primarily of only two substances—the dust of the
ground, and the breath of life—matter and spirit. There was no third sub-
stance—no soul, as distinguished from the body on the one hand, and from
spirit on the other.
Adam's soul certainly was not made of the dust of the ground ; and yet
all that God made, in forming him, was made of dust. The other element
was not made, but existed before in God himself, and was breathed into that
which was made. Was it Adam's soul then that was breathed into the dust
which God formed ? If so, there is no distinction between soul and spirit;
for the language used plainly indicates that the substance which God infused
into the body of Adam was the vital fluid, or spirit, as we have defined that
term on a former page. Moreover, if it was Adam's soul that God breathed
into his body, it is evident that no beginning can be predicated of that soul
'
—since it was not formed with his body, but previously existed in God. This
theory will land us in the doctrine of human pre-existenee and metempsychosis*
Besides, Paul expressly distinguishes between soul and spirit, as broadly as
between soul and body, where he says, ' I pray God that your whole spi7it
and soul and body be preserved blameless,' &c. 1 Thes. 5 : 23. •
y/
We are shut up then to the conclusion that Adam's soul was neither formed
of the dust of the ground, nor breathed into him from God, but was pro-
duced by the union of the dust of the ground and the breath of God. The
two primary substances compounded, produced a third.
A soul, then, is a modification of spirit, produced by union with a material
body. What is the nature of that modification, which distinguishes a soul
from mere spirit ? We answer :
—1. When the vital fluid from God entered
into combination with Adam's body, that fluid took the form of that body.
It certainly animated every part of it ; of course it existed in every part,
was as large as all the parts, and had the form of the whole. A soul then
is distinguished from mere spirit in this respect—viz., the former, like the
body, has a definite shape ; while the latter, hke air and other fluids, has ,/"
none. 2. The spirit which God breathed into Adam's body, by its intimate
union with every part of that body, and by its consequent intercourse mth
various material substances, as food, air, &c., necessarily received into itself
some of the properties of matter. As Ac^im's body was spiritualized matter,
so conversely Adam's soul was materialized spirit. This modification places
the soul in a middle position between mere spirit and matter ; and, in con-
junction with the first mentioned modification, accounts for the fact that souls,
according to the representations of scripture, even in a state of separation
from bodies, have the forms and functions of bodies, and are definite visible
substances to spiritual eyes. (See Luke 16: 22, 23, &c. Rev. 6: 9.) The
spirit which God breathed into Adam's form, was a mere fluid without defi-
nite form, and without material cohesiveness. If it had been instantly with-
drawn, before a permanent union of it with matter was formed, it would ^
7
58 SPIRITUAL NATURE OF MAN.
doubtless have remained an incoheslve fluid—an undistinguished part of the
whole spirit of life. But as soon as it entered into combination with the
dust-formed body, it received the shape and cohesiveness of that body
became partially indurated or congealed ; so that it ever afterward retained
a definite sliape, and of course an identity separate from that of the univer-
sal spirit of life. If this were not so—^if the soul were a mere fluid spirit,
when the body dies that spirit would return into the abyss of hfe from
whence it came, and lose its identity ;
just as a portion of water, taken from
tlie ocean, when its vessel is broken, returns and is distinguished no more.
Our doctrine then, is, that the soul is spirit in a materialized or partially
indurated state—that every man's soul is of the same size and form as his
body. Paul's distinction of the several departments of human nature into
body, soul, and spirit, we expound thus : the body is the material organiza-
tion ; the soul is the corresponding spiritual organization which animates the
body ; and the spirit is the vital fluid which radiates from body and soul
combined.
But it may be asked, ' If the soul is nothing but the life of the body, what
is the difierence between man and brute ?—why may it not be said that ani-
mals, as well as men, have souls ?' We reply, it is not true, and we have
not said, that man's soul is nothing hut the life of his hody. It is this, and
something more. The breath of God has in it the whole nature of God.
That breath, in combining with Adam's body, became as to its outer surface
-^its point of contact with matter—the animating principle of that body,
and assunilated to it. But, as to its inner being, it was still in communica-
tion -with God, and assimilated to him. Beside the hfe of the body, there
was a reasoning moral nature, resembling God's. The animation of the body
is only one of the functions of the soul. We shall speak of other powers
the heart, understanding, &c.,—hereafter. The mere fact therefore that
brutes have bodily life—one of the soul's manifestations—does not prove that
they have souls like those of men.
We have no objection however to allowing that brutes have souls in a cer-
tain sense. They certainly have something distinct from matter that animates
their bodies. The difierence between man and brutes, as we gather from
the account of creation, is this ; God caused the water and the earth to bring
forth all the animals below man. (See Gen. 1 : 20, 24.) Their life there-
fore was not received directly from God, but came to them through an
intermediate material conductor. At the beginning ' the spirit of God moved
[or brooded] upon the face of the waters.' (Gen. 1 : 2.) Thus life was
infused into the chaos of matter, and the earth became semi-animate. Then
God caused the caith to bring forth animals—their bodies and spirits. The
life they received was of course previously materialized. They were but the
children of the semi-animate mass of matter. Whereas when God created
man he made only his body of the dust of the ground, and breathed hfe into
it directly out of his own essence. Adam's life was not materialized before
he received it. He was the immediate offspring of God.
We Avill here note down some of the results which are deducible from the
foregoing theory of the souL
SPIRITUAL NATURE OF MAN, S6
1. The prime element of the soul being not a created suhstance, but an
-eternal spirit, is in its nature indestructible. Nevertheless the union of that
spirit with the body, and the consequences of that union, which we have seen
are the formation of the soul as distinguished from mere spirit, and the esta]>
lishment of individual consciousness, are not necessarily eternal. Man will
owe the immortality of his consciousness, and of his union with a corporeal
organization, to the resurrection.
2. The soul, being the animating principle of the body, growing mth it,
having its size and form, will retain its peculiarities when the body dies.
We see therefore the folly of those who teach that there is no distinction of
sex in heaven.
3. With these views we see also the error of those who make a wide
distinction between the soul and the life of the body, as though these were
separate and independent principles, to be managed and medicated in totally
different ways. We have no account of Adam's receiving an '
animal' or
* physical' life, in addition to the spirit of life which became his soul. The
life of the body is manifestly a part of the life that constitutes the soul ; not
the whole of it, for then, the death of the body would be the death of the
soul. ' Except a corn of wheat fall into the ground and die, it abideth alone ;
but if it die, it bringeth forth much fruit' It does not however die entirely.
The inner germ lives and shoots forth into a new plant. The outer coating
dies. But the life of the inner germ and of the outer coating is the same.
So the life. of the soul and the body is the same. Yet the body may die, and
the soul still live, and renew its strength. Doctors, physiologists, and all
those theologians and philosophers who treat physical life as though it were
altogether independent of the soul, would do weU to study Moses' ac<Jomit of
the creation of man.
4. We see what Christ m.eant when he said ' he that believeth on me shall
•never die.' He did not divide man's life into two parts, calling one the life
of the body, and the other the life of the soul; but \^ewing the life of the
body and soul as one, he affirmed as he meant, that in the case of believers
that one life should never cease its consciousness and growth. Even though
the body should be destroyed, its animating principle should live on.
5. We see in our theory a foundation for the confident expectation of final
victory over death, as predicted in Isaiah 25: 8, 1 Cor. 15: 51, &c. If
the soul is the life of the body, it is manifest that as faith grows strong, and
the life of Cod abounds and prevails in the soul, the effect will be felt in the
body. A long and general warfare may be required, before the souls of
believers will acquire energy enough to resist victoriously all the deadly
influences which now crowd upon their bodies, and to convert them into spir-
itual bodies ; but every increment of faith and spiritual life in the whole body
of Christ is directly tending to this consummation.
Our doctrine has these two advantages over the common cloudy notions
about the soul ; viz. 1. It is simple. It relieves us of the perplexing and
false distinctions between the soul and the life of the body. It reduces the
primury elements of human nature to two—matter and life ; or, in their com-
pound state, to three—one body, one soul, and one life common to both.
60 SPIRITUAL NATURE OP MAN.
2. It represents the soul as a substantial existence, that can be thought of
and reasoned about ; and not, hke the common theories, as an inconceivable
something, half-way between real substance and nonentity.
III. The NATURE AND LOCATION OF THE HEART. We know by the
familiar phenomena of our corporeal organizations, that the power of perceiv-
ing, feeling, and wilUng, exist ; and as there is no activity in mere matter,
we know that these powers, though manifested through the bodily organs,
belong to the soul. The eye does not see, but the soul sees through the eye ;
the hand does not feel, but the soul feels through the hand ; the muscles do
not will, but the soul wills through the muscles. The soul, then, is a per-
ceiving, feeling, and wilhng, substance.
But we have seen that the essence of Adam's soul was a spiritual fluid
the breath of God. It was not a complex organization, having separate
departments, like those of the body, appropriated to the separate powers of
perceiving, feeling, and willing. It was a simple substance, without form,
till it took the form of the vessel into which it was breathed. It is one and
the same substance, then, that sees, feels, and wills. '
There are diversities
of operations, but it is one spirit that worketh all in all,' in the organizations
of individuals, as well as in the body of Christ. (1 Cor. 12 : 6.) All the
faculties which manifest themselves through the senses, muscles, nerves, brain,
&c., actually reside in the one life which animates the whole man. The
power of perceiving which manifests itself through the eye, actually exists in
the hand ; though it does not ordinarily manifest itself there, because it has
there no appropriate organ. So the powers of willing and feeling actually
exist wherever life exists, i. e. throughout the whole body; though they
manifest themselves ordinarily only where special organs are prepared for
them.
Now it is a matter of course that the one life which thus distributes itself
as mto branches through all the organs of the body, should have somewhere
a point of unity—a centre where aU the branches meet. In the Bible this
spiritual centre is called the heart. As it is a matter of some consequence
to determine the location of the seat of government in such a kingdom as
human nature, we will examine the evidence on this point.
Phrenologists, neurologists, and physiologists, generally teach with much
show of certainty, that the brain is the seat, not only of perception, but of
sensibility, passion, and volition—the centre from which the spirit emanates
—'
the organ of the mind'—' the palace of the soul.' We join issue with these
philosophers, and aflBrm that the spiritual centre is an invisible organ., situ-
ated in the middle of the lower ])art of the breast.
To forestall any objection that may arise from the fact that the organ of
which we speak, is not discoverable by dissection, we here remark, that all
the most radical and potent agencies of the universe, are invisible. God
himself, who is the spiritual centre of all things, is not discoverable by teles-
cope or microscope. If man is compounded of matter and spirit, a part of
his nature is visible, and a part invisible. Our doctrine is that the visible
and invisible elements touch each other primarily not in the brainj but in the
middle of the lower part of the breast.
SPIRITUAL NATURE OF MAN. 61
In support of our position we first appeal to the testimony of nature. Ask
any simple minded person, where he thinks^ and he may point to his head
but ask him where ]iq feels such emotions as love, jealousy, remorse, joy, and
sorrow, and he will assuredly lay his hand on his breast. If he has ever ex-
amined attentively liis own consciousness, he will have no hesitation in testify-
ing also that the energy of his will is not in his brain, but in something which
he calls '
heart;' meaning not the fleshly organ on the left side, but something
which he feels (however anatomists may fail to find it) in the central part
of his body.
Let any one inquire of his own conscio\:fsness, where fear makes its im-
pression. The brain doubtless is the organ of intelligence, through which (as
through the eye or any other outward sense) information of danger is con-
veyed to the spiritual center ; but the ultimate sensation of terror, every body
knows, is a fainting, death-like feeling at the place called the pit of the
stomach.
This testimony of universal consciousness is confirmed by sound views of
physiology. The two principal departments in the corporeal nature of man,
are those of the nerves and the hlood. The centre of the nervous system is
in the head ; and the centre of the blood, or sanguineous system, is in the
chest. Now if the spirit is primarily connected with the nerves, its central
seat is in the head ; but if it is primarily connected with the blood, its cen-
tral seat is in the chest. It is a fair and necessary presumption of common
sense, that the spirit is primarily connected with that one of the two systems
which takes precedence of the other in order of growth, and importance. It
would be unnatural to suppose that the last link of the visible part, that which
touches the invisible, is a link of secondary and dependent rank. But it is
acknowledged by physiologists that the brain and nervous system are secon-
dary to, and dependent on the blood. The sanguineous system lies at the
foundation of every other department in the physical economy. We thence
infer that it is the residence of the spirit ; and then it follows that the cen-
tral seat of the spirit is in the chest.
AVe will quote the opinions of some distinguished physiologists on the rel-
ative importance of the nervous and sanguineous systems. The writer of the
article on Physiology in the Edinburgh Encyclopedia, says :
"Although the animal functions act, as it were, in a circle, and are so
intimately connected together that the intermission of any one of them is
followed by some disturbance in the system, yet the circulation of the hlood
seems to he that from which all the rest derive their origin^ and which is the
work essential to the well being of the whole. This is, in respect of time,
the first function which we are capable of observing in the young animal
during its foetal existence. Haller informs us that he was distinctly able to
trace the rudiments of the future heart in the chicken during incubation, for
some time before he could clearly observe either the brain or the lungs.*
With respect to the relative importance of the heart and the brain, it may be
* We might safely infer that the organs of the sanguineous system are first developed
in other animals, from the situation of the wTnii^icaZ core?. The life of the foetus mani-
festly enters by the belly, and not by the brain.
62 SPIRITUAL NATURE OF MAN.
remarked, that although both of them are necessary for the functions of tho
most perfect ammals, yet we can easily conceive that simple existence may
for some time be sustained without the intervention of any of the faculties
which originate from the nervous system, but that the nervous system cannot
act for the shortest hiterval without a due supply of blood from the heart, or
some analogous organ. Upon the whole therefore^ we are to regard the heart
as the centre of the animal frame, which seems to unite the various functions,
however different in their nature and operations, into one connected vital
system." Vol. xv. p. 634.
In the great dispute among physiologists of the last century on the question
whether the nerves are necessarily concerned in muscidar co^itraction,
"Haller adduced cases of acephalous foetuses, which had yet grown to their
full size, and seemed to possess the various vital functions in a perfect state ;
so that they must have enjoyed muscular contractility, although totally des-
titute of a brain. He also referred to the fact that the heart is a muscular
organ in perpetual motion, and capable of strong contraction, yet scantily
furnished with nerves, and almost destitute of feeling. It was also advanced
as a strong proof that muscular contraction may be independent of the nerves
and brain, that muscular parts remain contractile for a considerable time
after they are removed from the body, and of course when their communica-
tion with the brain is destroyed: and this is particularly the case tvith the
heart itself, which in many of the amphibia and cold blooded animals, re-
mains susceptible of the impression of stimulants for some hours after its
separation from the body." p. 630.
" Dr. W. Philip showed by a series of elaborate experiments that muscu-
lar parts, and in particular the heart, can continue to contract for an indefi-
nite period after the complete destruction of both the brain and spinal cord/'
p. 631.
After viewing the whole discussion, the writer of the article in the En-
cyclopedia says—" We conceive it to be. clearly proved by Dr. Philip, that
there are a large class of muscular parts which have but little connection
with the nervous system, or are only occasionally under its influence. This
is the case, with the parts which are not under the control of the will, and
-especially with the organs which are concerned in those functions, wiiich, in
their ordinary healthy action, do not produce perception," i. e., all the organs
'that are concerned in the formation and circulation of the blood.
The whole of this testimony goes to show that the sanguineous system is
primary, and the nervous system secondary ; and consequently the spiritual
power which moves the first wheel in the whole corporeal machinery, must
have its place at the centre of the sanguineous system, i. e., in the middle
region of the trunk.
Dr. Hunter came to the borders of this very theory, by a course of reas-
'oning in relation to the coagulation of the blood, the details of which we need
-not here present. " He supposed that the blood is not merely the substance
which gives life to the animal, by carrying to all parts what is necessary for
their support and preservation, but that it is itself a living, organizedhodyj
and even the peculiar seat in which the vitality of the whole system resides,'''*
SPIRITUAL NATURE OF MAN.. 6^
We are now prepared to hear the testimony of the Bible on this subject
Crod is certainly the best of all witnesses, in questions relating to his own
workmanship ; and we conceive that he has testified on the point under dis-
cussion, very distinctly and peremptorily. The doctrine that the blood is
the vehicle of life, or in the language of Dr. Hunter, is '
the pecuhar seat
of the vitahty of the whole system,' is so plainly taught in the following
passages, that we cannot but wonder that any difference of opinion should
have ever existed among professedly Christian physiologists.
" Whatsoever man there be of the house of Israel or of the strangers that
sojourn among you, that eateth any manner of blood, I will even set my face
against that soul that eateth blood, and will cut him off from among his peo-
ple. For the life of the flesh is in the blood: and I have given it to you up-
on the altar, to make an atonement for your souls ; for it is the blood that mar
keth an atonement for the soul. Therefore I said unto the children of Israel,
No soul of you shall eat blood, neither shall any stranger that sojourneth
among you eat blood. And whatsoever man there be of the children of Israel,
or of the stranger that sojourneth among you, which hunteth and catcheth any
beast, or fowl that may be eaten, he shall even pour out the blood thereof, and
cover it with dust. For it is the life of all flesh ; the blood of it is for the
life thereof: Therefore I said unto the children of Israel, ye shall eat the
blood of no manner of flesh : for the life of all flesh is the blood thereofJ^
Lev. IT: 10—14.
That the life of man is in his blood, and of course that the spiritual centre
is not in the brain, but in the middle region of the body, will appear if we
consider the process of his original creation. '
The Lord God formed man
©f the dust of the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life ;
and man became a living soul.' Gen, 2: 7. We perceive by this account
that the original elements of human nature were simply '
the dust of the
ground,' and '
the breath of life ;' or, in other words, spirit and matter.—
Our question is—Whereabouts in the body of Adam, did these two sub-
stances come together ? The account clearly points to the answer. ' The
Lord God breathed into his nostrils the breath of life.' The nostrils are the
channel, not to the brain, but to the lungs, and through them to the blood.
' The breath of life,' then, first entered the blood ; and the point of junction
was within the thorax.
It does not necessarily follow from what has been said, that the fleshly
organ on the left side of the body, commonly called the heart, is the seat of
the spirit. That organ is only one among several agents that are employed
in the preparation and distribution of the blood. All the great viscera as
truly belong to the sanguineous system, as the heart. The stomxach, the
liver, the pancreas, and the lungs, are the real generators of the blood.
The ofiice of the heart is chiefly mechanical. In determining the location
of the spirit, we should naturally have regard to the whole apparatus over
which it specially presides. As it is the vital energy that moves the internal
organs and impregnates the blood, its appropriate seat is at the central point
of the lower part of the thorax, in the midst of all the several departments
of the sanguineous system.
64 SPIRITUAL NATURE OP MAN.
The correctness of this exact result, is established not only, as we have
insisted, by the testimony of universal consciousness, but by the plain inti-
mations of scripture. It may be seen by consulting a concordance, that the
word hearty as used in the Bible, almost universally refers to the spiritual
centre, not to the fleshly <:>rgan on the left side. We find but three instan-
ces in which the several writers apply the word to any part of the body, viz.,
Ex. 28: 29, 30, 2 Sam. 18: 14, and 2 Kings, 9: 24. In the two latter
instances, neither the language or circumstances absolutely determine the
exact part of the body referred to. But all the probable e^ddence that can
be found in either, leads to the conclusion that the writers use the word lieart
to designate the middle of the person^ in the same manner as it designates
the middle of the earth, heaven, and sea, in Matt. 12: 40, Deut. 4: 11,
Ex. 15: 8, &c. But the first of the three instances happily furnishes con-
clusive evidence, and that directly from God himself, in regard to the cor-
poreal location of the heart, as that word is used in the Bible. We will
quote the passage.
"Aaron shall bear the names of the children of Israel in the breast-plate of
judgment upon Us hearty when he goeth into the holy place, for a memorial
before the Lord continually. And thou shalt put in the breast-plate of judg-
ment the Urim and Thummim ; and they shall be upon Aaron^s heart when
he goeth in before the Lord ; and Aaron shall bear the judgment of the
chMreii of Isvsiel upon his heart hehvQ the Lord continually." Ex. 28:
29, 30.
To satisfy any one who may doubt about the actual position of the breast-
plate on the person of Aaron, we quote the following passage from Josephus'
account of the priest's vestments:—"The High Priest put on a garment
called the Ephod. Its make was after this manner : it was woven to the
depth of a cubit, of several colors, with gold intermixed, and embroidered ;
but it left THE MIDDLE OF THE BREAST Uncovered. It was made with sleeves
also ; nor did it appear at all differently made from a short coat. But in the
void place of this garment, there was inserted a piece, of the bigness of a
span, embroidered with gold and the other colors of the Ephod, and called
THE BREAST-PLATE. Thispiece exactly/ filledup the voidplace in the Ephod'^
Ant. b. iii., chap, viii., §5.
Thus, in obedience to God's command that Aaron should put the breast-
plate on his heart, he put it on the middle of his breast. The Urim and the
Thummim, the instruments by which God revealed his will, the symbols of
his spiritual manifestation, stood over the spot which true physiology and
universal consciousness point out as the special dwelhng place of the soul.
(For other Bible hints on this subject, see Dan. 7: 15, John 7: 38.)
The heart, being the centre-point of all the faculties of body and soul, is
the special seat of personal consciousness—the thing commonly signified by
the pronoun * I.' It is the collecting and distributmg office of the whole
man. As we have seen that the powers of perceiving, feeling and willing
pertaui to the whole Hfe, so they are especially concentrated in this radiating
point. In fact it is from this point that all the growth and manifestations of
life originally proceed, as the stalk and branches of a plant proceed from
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 65-
the germ. Of course all the powers that manifest themselves in the senses,
nerves, brain, muscles, &c., were first in the heart. Accordingly the Bible
applies to the heart almost every form of language commonly appropriated to
the senses, and other specific faculties. It is represented as seeing, hearing,
understanding, reasoning, beheving, speaking, &c.
The heart, then, is distinguished from the soul, thus : The soul is the
whole life of man, as it exists in combination Avith the whole body. The
heart is the centre-point of that life, situated in the middle of the body,
having no material organ of manifestation, but acting upon the other depart-
ments of life as the mainspring on the wheels and hands of a watch, or as
the Executive on his subordinate officers in a national government. IMark
7: 21, 22.
§ 11. ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
V
This curious science, (also called Mesmerism,) which was condemned and
executed in France fifty or sixty years ago, by a report of Franklin and other
scientific commissioners appointed by the government to sit in judgment upon
it, has risen from the dead, and is now exciting as much interest in this coun-
try, as was excited a few years ago by Phrenology. Nor is it a subject of
mere curiosity and ridicule. It claims and compels the attention of sober
and learned men, and is evidently fast winning its way to general credence
and respectability. Its principles seem to be as yet not fully settled. It.
breaks forth from time to time in new forms, each more wonderful than any
that have gone before it. Its principal advocates are yet engaged, rather in
exploring its mysteries, each in a separate direction, than in bringing together
their discoveries into a harmonious system. We believe that its facts (how-
ever crude and discordant may be the speculations of its professors) are over-
coming materialistic skepticism, and opening a passage from the highest
point of physical science, into spiritual philosophy. It is in our view the con-
necting link between the sciences which treat of those subtler powers of na-
ture, called electricity, galvanism, magnetism, &c., and the science of life,
animal and eternal. As such we introduce it to our readers. A view of its /
facts and elementary principles will help to complete our view of the Spiritual "^
Nature of Man.
The primary idea of the science, in which all its advocates agree, is that there
is a subtle fluid in the human body, in some respects like electricity, which
may be transmitted in divers ways, from one to another, and under certain
circumstances, may produce astonishing and beneficial effects of various kinds.
The following is a brief synopsis of the most lucid and satisfactory exhi])ition
of the subject which we have met with. It is an abstract of two lectures
given by L. H. Whiting, in Putney, Vt., in connexion with a great variety of
illustrative experiments
8
66 AmUAL MAGNBTISJf.
t. Tlie agont of motion, sensation, &c., i. c. the substance 'wliicli is im^
mediately in communication with the mind, and which conve^^s its mandate*
to the muscles and transmits to it the impressions of the senses, is a subtle
fluid, resembling, electricity or galvanism. This is proved by such facts as
that a dead body may be made to perform muscular motions and exhibit va-
rious phenomena of life by the application of galvanism.
2. This subtle agent, called the nervous fiuid, is evolved by the apparatus-
of hfe in all animals, and radiates from them constantly, surrounding them with
an atmosphere of greater or less extent, hke the atmosphere of animal heai
which emanates from them.
8. The developement of nervous fluid is greater in amount and power ia
gome persons than in others, as some electrical machines generate the elec^
trie fluid more abundantly than others.
4. The passage of the nervous fluid from one person to another, takes'
place under the familiar law of nature by which all fluids tend to an equilib'
rium. As water seeks the level of the ocean—as clouds, unequally charged
with electricity, send forth lightnings to each other-—as a warm body imparts-
its heat to a colder,—so by contact, or under other favorable conditions, the
nervous fluid of a person whose vital powers are strong, may pass into and
possess, more or less perfectly, the body of one whose vital powers are weaker,
5. The senses and muscular powers of a person thus charged with the ner^
vous fluid of another, are shut off' more or less perfectly from the medium of
their ordinary action, \dz. their own nervous fluid, and must act, if at all, iJt
and by the nervous fluid of the magnetizer. Hence the subject sleeps, be-
comes insensible to the causes of sound, smell, taste, and pain, so far as they
are apphed directly to his own body; and sees, hears, tastes, smells, feels, &c.,
only as the nervous fluid of the magnetizer is affected by the causes of sensation
applied to Ms body.
6. It is an ultimate indisputable fact that mind does control matter in cer-*
tain circumstances. Within our own bodies our minds have power to set in
motion the nervous fluid, so as to produce the various motions of our limbs.
But in tho case of magnetic possession, the nervous fluid of the magnetizer
comes into a relation to the senses and faculties of another person, similar ta
that which it ordinarily sustams to his OYm. Hence his mind can set in mo-
tion his nervous fluid so as to produce motions, sensations, and thoughts, in
that other person. There is no more mystery in the idea of the mind's oper*
ating beyond the limits of the body, than in the idea of its operating in ther
fingers' ends. The mystery is how mind can operate on matter at all ; and
this mystery attends not merely the facts of animal magnetism, but every
motion of our bodies.
These principles account for all the most common phenomena of the mag*
netic state, viz. those which result from sympathy between the magnetizer
and the subject. Clairvoyance involves other principles, of which we shall
eay something hereafter.
Whether this philosophy is true or not, the facts which it professes to ac-
comit for are too certain and abundant to be disposed of as the tricks ofjug-
glera. In Mr. Whiting'a experiments, (which we ourselves attended,) mwb
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, 6?
I&ains was taken to preclade the possibility of collusion between tlie operator
:»nd the subject ; and we are very certain that every intelligent person who
witnessed them, was satisfied that they were performed in good faith. The
following are some of the phenomena which w^ere exhibited : —The pulse of
ithe subject was raised instantly by the will of the magnetizer, accompanied
by a motion of his hand without contact, from 72 to 90 beats per minute.
This fact Avas ascertained and attested by a disinterested physician. The
subject with his eyes closed and without any visible communication with any
'One, named and described accurately a great variety of articles, such as pen-
knives, coins, pencils, surgeon's instruments, &c., which were held heJiindJds
head by indifferent spectators. Under the same conditions, he read letters
:and words from a book, and told the time by several watches set differently,
and in each case accurately even to the fraction of a minute. In all these ca-
ges the magnetizer simply fixed his own attention on the object presented, and
iminediately his perception was communicated by sympathy to the subject.
So, pain caused by the spectators in any part of the body of the operator,
was manifestly felt in the corresponding part by the subject ; though the prick
of a pin in his own body produced no evidence of sensation. In the same
jnanner tastes and smells were transferred from one to the other. The sub-
ject was compelled to raise his arm, drop it, bend it in various directions, to
•stand up, sit down, &c. &c.,by the silent will and corresponding motions of
the magnetizer standing behind him. And the possibihty of collusion was
precluded by the fact that the magnetizer allowed one of the spectators to
dictate, by moving his own arm, the motions to be performed by the subject.
In addition to all this, a great variety of experiments in phreno-mesmerism
were performed, by which it was manifest that the magnetizer could control
.and vary the thoughts and feelings of the subject as easily as a musician calls
-forth the various tones of an organ.
For further illustrations of this subject, we avail ourselves of the following
^extract from a pamphlet published some years ago by Charles Poyen :
« It i« a fact well established by the daily observation ofat! magnetizers, both
in Europe and America, that from the moment a person is put in somnambulism^
he becomes capable of appreciating correctly and seizing the thoughts, the will,
and feelings, not only of his magnetizer, but also of those who are put in close
communication with him. This surprising and very interesting mode of knowU
edge is doubtless imparted to the somnambulist through an emanation of some
liind, (call it if you please, the spirit, the magnetic or vital fluid) which springs
from the brain of the two parties and thus forms about them a peculiar atmos-
phere, the fluctuations or movements of which vary according to the direction
^ven by the organ from which the fluid originates. The brain of the magneti-
zer or of the person placed in communication, is the active instrument or appa-
ratus, every operation of which necessarily impresses a new movement and di-
rection to the fluid, which is more clearly felt by the corresponding analogous
organ, viz. the brain of the somnambulist, and thus creates herein the samo
iBodifications as those which exist in the organ of the other party. Such modi*
fications constitute what we call thought, reasoning, &c. &c.
« I will quote here a few lines from a distinguished author whose name can but
have a great weight in the mind of every well informed man. After de.scril)ing
the manner in which the nervous atmosphere is formed, Dr. Rostan (see his Es-
68 ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
say on Animal Magnetism, in the eighth volume of the Dictionnaire de Medecine,)
continues thus :
—< The active nervous atmosphere of the magnetizer mingles
with the passive nervous atmosphere of the magnetized person ; this one is, there-
by, influenced in such a manner that his power of attention is momentarily abol-
ished; and both the impressions which h© receives inwardly, and those that are
transmitted to him by the magnetizer, resort to his brain through another
channel.'
" The nervous agent possesses, like caloric, the faculty of penetrating through
solid bodies ; a faculty which is doubtless limited ; but can satisfactorily explain
how somnambulists may be influenced through partitions, walls, doors, &c., also
it accounts for their perceptions of the savorous and odorous qualities through
certain bodies, which in the natural state cannot be penetrated by those particles.
The innumerable facts which prove in an indisputable manner that the magnetic
action can be exercised through solid bodies, and that the presence of those bodies
does not prevent clairvoyance, compel us to admit that the nervous or magnetical
agent must pass through them. This is no more astonishing than light passing
through diaphane or transparent substances, electricity passing through the con»
ductive bodies, and caloric penetrating all sorts of bodies. The mingling of the
two nervous atmospheres affords a very clear explanation of the communication
of the wish and will, even of the thoughts of the magnetizer to the magnetized
person. The wish and will, being ' actions of the brain, this organ transmits them
to the circumference of the body through the channel of the nerves, and when the
two nervous atmospheres happen to meet each other, they are so much identified
as to form but one ; both individuals become one only ; they feel and think to-
gether ; but one of them (the somnambulist) is constantly under the dependence
of the other, while in the magnetic state.'
" In the natural state we are not capable of feeling the fluid above mentioned
and cAperiencing its various movements, so as to become conscious of it : it is
surely because in the natural state the vital energy is thrown too much out-
wardly ; the life of relation is then predominant, and constantly keeps our power
of attention and feeling upon external objects. But through the profound change
determined in the functions of the nervous system, during the state of somnam-
bulism, catalepsy, or ecstasy, we are enabled to hold, with a being organized as
we are, a communication more or less perfect ; according, of course, to the re-
spective inward organic dispositions and capacity of the two parties. Indeed
somnambulism and ecstacy are particularly characterized by a suspension, for
the time being, of the life of relation, whereas an inward sense, derived frpm
a great concentration of the vital energy, seems to be developed.
"I hold it to be a well authenticated fact, that the will and thought can be
communicated without the aid of language or sign, whatever the medium of that
communication may be ; out of fifty somnambulists, you will find upward of forty
who will present this order of phenomena to a certain degree. I have seen,
produced and read innumerable instances of it, and believe it as much as my own
existence : I believe it, also, because I can account for it through philosophical
principles, as I have above briefly stated. On the contrary, the faculty of seeing
things that are transpiring at a great distance, ^ in cities, for instance, where the
somnambulist never was in his life, the situation and peculiar distribution of which
he does not know, and perhaps never read about^ is wholly incomprehensible, and
is not, indeed, substantiated by good authority ; I have never observed nor ever
read any instance of it in the scientific authors who have a\ ritten on animal
magnetism and somnambulism. I easily conceive and am willing to admit, that
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 69
certain somnambulists and ecstatic persons have been able to see objects at a
distance ; but it was in places where they had been, and the exact situation of
which they previously knew : they had thus the means of directing their faculty
of vision through the country, and taking cognizance of things and persons more
or less accurately, according to the extent of this power in them. But it is
totally inconceivable, that they can see equally well in places about which they
have no previous correct impression in their mind ! Suppose yourself a som-
nambulist, gifted with a high degree of clairvoyance. How could you distin-
guish one particular house or street out of the variety of streets and houses
which form the cities of Paris, London, New York, (Sec, if you have never been
in those places, or acquired by reading a perfect idea of them ?
" I will quote a few instances of communication of thought and of the influ-
ence of the will, which are very well calculated to illustrate the correctness of
my views,—and are not less wonderful and conclusive than those described in
your narrative.
"The phenomena of the communication of thought and of the influence of
the will were the first that were observed by the Marquis of Puysegur, when he
discovered the state of somnambulism. In the very interesting letter written by
him to some friends of his, immediately after witnessing those singular effects in
the first somnambulist he had, he says—' I obliged him to move a great deal on
his chair, as though he was dancing by a tune, which by singing mentally only,
I caused him to repeat aloud.'
" Fournler, in his Essay on the probabilities of Magnetic Somnambulism,
dwells principally on this phenomenon, as being the most common and important.
He says, page 48, that * he saw a somnambulist, whom he willed to get up and
take a hat lying on the table in the entry, and to put it on the head of a certain
person in the company.' I did not speak a word, says he, but only made a sign
which traced out the line which I wished the somnambulist to follow. I must
observe that he had a bandage oyer his eyes all the time ; he rose from the chair,
followed the direction indicated by my finger, approached the table and took the
hat which was lying on it, among many other objects, and . . . put it on the
head of the vevy person I meant.
" I might quote a large number of such facts from foreign authors on Magnet-
ism, of undoubted veracity and merit ; but I prefer to refer to some of the same
description, which have occurred in this country, as being probably the more in-
teresting and trustworthy to the Aratrican reader.
" At one of my exhibitions in Pawtucket, some nine months ago, a medical
gentleman from Providence handed to me a bit of paper, upon which this sentence
vi^as written : < Ask mentally to the somnambulist how far it is from Pawtucket to
Providence.' I put the question to her, vt^ithout either a sign made or a word
spoken : she answered distinctly, ' four miles from one bridge to the other,' which
is the correct distance.
" At another exhibition in Boston, I was requested by an eminent gentleman
then present, to will the somnambulist to rise from the sofa upon which she was
sitting, and go and take another seat ; I stood about twelve feet from her, and
mentally put her the command. She shook her head negatively, as though she
was refusing to do something. I then asked her why she shook her head so :
* You want me to move from my seat ; I don't want to.' In reference to this fact,
Mr William Jenks of Boston, who witnessed it, says in an article inserted by
him in the Recorder of Feb. 17, 1837, 'Farther and more strange to our expe-
rience, while the eye& of the somnambule continue closely shut, (the experiments
^0 ANIMAL magnetism/
have been tried too with bandaged eyes,) and while no gesture or sound is used,
I saw the magnetiser ask the magnetised a question, (suggested on the spot, anA
*>ecretly by a bystander,) and heard the patient answer audibly and correctly.*
" A scientific gentlemen, who attended the experiments pertbrmed in Paw-
tucket by Rev. Daniel Greene, told me that at his written request Mr. Greene
willed that a piece of apple, which he held in his hand, would become a chestnut
burr for the somnambulist. He, in consequence, handed it to her ; and immedi-
ately she began to scratch her hand and complain that it was full of prickles.
* What is the cause of it 7' * Why,' said she, *you gave me a chestnut burr.'
Mr. Greene, it is well known, has made himself celebrated in Rhode Island for
the wonderful power which he exercises by his will only upon his patients.
^ Mr. George Wellmarth of Taunton, related to me the following admirable
instance of communication of thought that occurred under his own operation.
He was requested by a witness to will his somnambulist to quote Byron's well
known song, the ' Isles of Greece.' Mr. Wellmarth mentally pronounced the
first verse, and Mr. Andros, the somnambulist, starting from the last words re-
peated by the magnetizer, recited the whole song. Mr. Wellmarth willed him
again to recite another passage ; he said he did not know it by heart, but that
he knew where it was in the book, and would shov7 it to him. Indeed, the sorn-
»nambulist got up, walked toward the library, with his eyes perfectly shut, took
the volume, and after looking over it awhile, pointed out the precise verses that
had been indicated to him.
*• Innumerable instances of the same kind might be offered. I will mention a
few more ; the two following took place last night, in presence of forty ef the
'most respectable citizens of Salem, Mass. A young lady of the place was put
into the magnetic sleep by a member of my class. Dr. Fisk, a surgeon dentist.
A tumbler of water was presented to the operator, with the * written request that
he would turn the liquid into brandy for the somnambulist.' The tumbler was
in consequence handed to her ; she drank some of it ; and being asked what it
was, siie exclaimed apparently in divspleasure, ^Itisrum.^ A moment afterward,
the magnetizer was again requested to spill a little of the water upon her hand,
willing it to be hot rum. So he did, and immediately the somnambulist began t©
move her hands and wipe them against her gown. Being asked what was the
matter, she said that some hot rum had been dropped on her hands.
" A person under my care, being in the magnetic sleep, a medical genfleman
passed me ten or twelve grains of aloes, contained in a paper, and requested me
hy writing to < will it to be sugar for the somnambulist.' Aloes is known to be
'B. bitter drastic. The somnambulist tasted it, and exclaimed, * it is beautiful.^
i asked her what it was. * Confectionary sugar,' said she, and then swallowed a
tongue full of it, apparently with much pleasure. But soon the medicine acted
'on her stomach, and she became quite sick.
On another evening, her eyes being blindfolded, a bunch of white grapes was
^eld over her forehead by a gentleman of the company, I asked her what it was,
-<It is a bunch of white fruit,' said she. « Well, v.^hat is the name of it ?' * I do
'not know ; I cannot remember it.' Then I looked at her, and mentally articu-
lated the word grape^ willing her to repeat it. Instantly she shook her head
• signifying that she understood me, and repeated aloud, '
It is a bunch of grapes.'
The faculty of understanding the thoughts and will of those who came in
^communication with them, was likewise remarkably developed in the ecstatic
somnambulists,—the * possessed nuns', of Loudun, the French Prophets or
Shakers of the Ceveunes, the Convulsionnaries de St. Medard, &;c. This phe-
ANIMAL MAGITETISM. Tl
Homcnon was so common and striking, that it was considered as the first proof
of the reality of the possession, in the case of the ecstatic nuns of Loudun.
*They could reveal the most secret thoughts,'' These are the very words used in
the Juridic information concerning that celebrated aftair. Even some of the
possessed persons had the extraordinary gift of understanding all languages.
Although ignorant, they could answer correctly, questions in Latin, Greek, Ger-
man, and even in the dialect of some tribe, which one of the visitors had learned
during a residence in America. This last fact proves indisputably, that during
the very peculiar state of the nervous system, caused by religious exaltation, or
the magnetic operation, the human brain acquires the power of comprehending
the thoughts, and will, in whatever language it may be expressed,"
It is hardly necessary to say that we dissent from Mr. Poyen in regard to
the seat of spiritual Hfe. We believe as he teaches that a spirit emanates
from the brain ; but we hold that the ultimate centre of vital emanation is
the heart: by which we mean, as we have before explained, not the fleshly
organ on the left side of the thorax, but a spiritual organ, not discoverable
by dissection, situated in the middle of the breast. In the present state of
the Magnetic philosophy, (i. e. w^hile the brain is the grand centre of inves-
tigation and experiment,) its professors can do but little directly for the
benefit of the souls of men ; and even their operations on men's bodies can
rise to no higher rank than that of auxiliaries to the art of ordinary physi-
cians. They may obtain information about diseases, and they may produce
some superficial quieting efiect on irritable nerves ; but the vital centre is
beyond their scope of operations. They may give men the fruit of the tr§e
of knowledge, but not of the tree of life. When their philosophy and ex-
periments shall be transferred from the brain to the heart, and their science
shall enlarge itself till it becomes Spiritual Magnetism, they will penetrate
beyond the body and the senses, to the affections, and find out the old Bible
secret of combining lives ; of joining God to man ; of producing righteous-
ness, unity, and health.
We dissent from Mr. Poyen also on another point. He makes a distinc-
tion between cases that can be explained by reference to the sympathy of
human spirits, and those which cannot be so explained, such as those in
which the somnambulists have the faculty of seeing or visiting places at a
great distance, places unknown to themselves and those with whom they are
in apparent communication. Poyen doubts the reality of these latter cases.
We are well persuaded of their reality. Facts are reported from time to
time, on evidence that cannot be questioned, showing that the power of
clairvoyanee in some cases far surpasses all the limits that can reasonably be
assigned to mere human intelligence. We do not consider such facts inex-
plicable, as Poyen does. We explain them by supposing that the clairvoyant
is in communication with invisible superior intelligences. To decide whether
the invisible auxiliary in any ^ven case, is a good or e\dl being, w^e must
* try the spirits^ by scripture tests. When the object of the wonders per-
formed is evidently to pamper curiosity, to exalt the creature, to gratify
covetousness ; in short Avhen the affair has a Simon Magus aspect, we are
bound to recognize the agency of the devil. On these principles we cannot
72 AXIMAL MAGNETISM.
doubt that many of the works which the world is wondering after, are prop-
erly to be classed with the ' signs and lying wonders' of the Man of sin.
The operations of niagnetizers were formerly confined chiefly to producing
the magnetic sleep, and clairvoyance^ or the power of seeing with the spirit,
distant and hidden objects, and to healing certain bodily disorders. But
latterly, by a miion with Phrenology, Animal Magnetism has assumed a more
intellectual aspect, and the sphere of its operations has been greatly en-
larged and dignified. The most curious development of this Phrenological
Mesmerism which we have seen, was made by I)r. Buchanan, of Kentucky,
in 1842. We extract the following description of some of liis experiments
from an article first pubhshed in the N. Y. Evening Post. The writer of the
article is Robert Dale Owen—certainly a credible witness, so far as freedom
from superstition and credulity can make a witness credible in such a sus-
picious case. X
EXPERIMENTS OP DE. BUCHANAN. •
"iVezo Harmony, Indiana, June, 1842.
"The most valid objection which has been urged against the claim of Phrenol-
ogy to a place among the exact sciences, is the fact, that the observations on
character, on which it depends to demonstrate the functions of a particular organ,
are of a very general nature ; and even in their aggregation, are necessarily con-
tingent and inferential, rather than absolutely demonstrative. It is to obviate
this objection, that Dr. Buchanan's researches have been, for years past, chiefly
directed.
"It occurred to him, that if the diflerent portions or organs of the brain could
be excited, so a?, to manifest on the instant, and i)i a striking manner, their pecu-
liar function, then, what was before only inference and probability, might become
certainty and demonstration.
" Following up this idea, Dr Buchanan arrived by actual experiments, at vari-
ous results which bid fair to solve at last the great problem that has divided the
scientific world, ever since the days of Hippocrates and his 'animal spirits,' down
through the disquisitions of Des Cartes, to the present day ; when some physicians
(Aberneth)'-, I believe, among the rest,) appear inclined to recognize a subtile
fluid analogous to electricity as the prime agent in sensation. Some subtile
agent, for which Dr. Buchanan has retained, as most appropriate, the name of
* nervous fluid,' appears, according to Dr. B.'s discovery, to pass, by contact, or
through the medium of a metalhc or other conductor, from one person to another.
Experiments further prove, that some temperaments are more capable of receiv-
ing its impressions, others of communicating them. Dr. B. found the liability
to excitement, or, as he phrases it, the impressibility, in some persons so feeble,
that hardly any effect could by ordinary means, be produced ; while in others,
usually of a nervous temperament, the effects were so powerful, that great caro
was necessary in conducting his experiments.
" The number of those whose brains are thus easily excited, he found to be
comparatively small ;
yet in every society of u few hundred persons, he has been
able to meet with some impressible subjects. They may usually be thus detected.
Let the operator grasp firmly in his hand any metallic conductor, a bar of steel
for example, and the subject receive it loosely in his band, placed at rest, and re-
maining without muscular effort ; if a benumbing, tingling, sometimes paintul
sensation, occasionally accompanied by a feeling of heat, be experienced in the
arm, often running up to the shoulder, the subject is commonly impressible.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 70
** Dr. Buchanan has found several such among us. The most easily impressed
was a young man, T C——, about nineteen, of a quick, excitable temper-
ament, but in good health. I have known him from his infancy. He is of one
of the most respf-.ctable families in this place, originally from Virginia, once
neighbors of Thomas Jefferson, with whom T 's father was well acquainted.
He himself is of quick parts, good common education, and irreproachable char-
acter. The idea of simulation or wilful deception on his part (even had the ex-
periments been of a nature to permit the possibility of such arts) is, among us
who know him, out of the question. But the character of many of the effects
produced was, even to a dispassionate stranger, such as to stamp conviction of
their reality.
" The first experiments were made in public : and the operator wrote on a black
board behind the subject, the faculty or emotion which he proposed to excite.
"The results produced were, for a time, chiefly of a pathognomonic character,
indicated by sudden change of countenance, gesture and attitude. Those were
striking and unequivocal.
" The organs giving playfulness and good humor, were excited ; and the sub-
ject, who had seemed somewhat embarrassed by the novelty of his situation, bent
forward, smiled, his arms relaxed, his embarrasment was gone, and his whole air
was that of ease and mirthful sympathy. The effect was infectious ; and the
audience indulged in laughter, in which, with much apparent zest, he himself
joined. Suddenly the operator raised his hand, and placed it on the organ of
self esteem. An enchanter's wand could not have produced a transformation
more sudden and complete. Every expression of mirth or playfulness vanished
at the touch ; the body was thrown back, even beyond the perpendicular ; the
chin elevated ; the legs crossed consequentially ; the relaxed arms drawn up, one
hand placed on the breast, the other akimbo ; a sidelong glance of the most
supercilious contempt, cast on the audience, convulsed them with laughter, The
subject of their mirth, however, remained utterly unmoved ; not a muscle of the
face relaxed, and the expression of proud scorn seemed to harden on his counte-
nance. To the questions of the operator he either disdained to answer, or replied
in the brief language of self-sufficient impatience. * What do you think of the
audience?' A look more expressive than words was the only reply. The ques-
tion was repeated, and at last he said : ' They look very mean,' Dr. B.—' What
are they laughing at V T. —* That is nothing to me.'
" His attitude was so theatrical, that some one, (knowing that his memory was
very retentive, and that he was fond of dramatical reading) suggested that he
should recite something. * Will you recite something for the audience V < No,
I dont care to do it.' * Perhaps you dont know any thing by heart V I could if
I would,' The organs of memory, language and imitation being excited, and it
having been suggested to him that he should select something from the play of
Damon and Pythias, at last he rose, and, with a tone, and look, and gesture, that
Kean himself might have envied—such scornful and withering contempt did they
express—he recited the passage commencing :
'Are all content? A nation's rights betrayed,
And all content ? Oh slaves ! oh parricides I
Oh by the best hope that a just man has,
I blush to look around, and call ye men.*
<* Afler the recitation, he remained standing in the loftiest attitude of sarcastic
scorn, and could hardly be persuaded to sit down. The chair seemed too small for
his greatness. At last the operator touched the antagonistic organs : and look,
tone, manner, gesture— all changed again on the instant, so as to imitate humble,
T4 ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
almost childish good humor. Another experiment was of a more extraor(Jlnary
character. After writinn; that he would excite his memory of past events, prd-
hably in early infancy, Dr. Buchanan touched the corresponding organ. In-
stantly the attitude and expression became that of deep and absent thought ; the
body slightly advanced, the eyes somewhat raised, mild and melancholy, and fixed
on vacancy. So classic and truthful was the whole expression, that several a-
round me involuntarily exclaimed : ' A study for a painter!'
"In this almost trance-like frame of mind, he appeared disinclined to converse;
but when the question was repeated ' what he was thinking of?' he replied 'Oh,
of things that happened long ago.' * What things ?' * Of coming down the Ohio
when we cane here.' * How old were you then?' 'Between two and three/
* What do you remember about your voyage V T. then related many particulars,
which his father afterward admitted were correct to the letter ; corroborating
the assertion that he was not three years old at the time. Dr. B. then said
* What do you expect to occupy yourself about tomorrow?' '1 don't know/
* Have not you thought about it V * No.' ' Well, think about it and let me know.'
No answer. 'Have you thought about it ?' ' No, I'd rather not.' * What busi.
ness would you like to follow ?' (Impatiently) *
I know nothing about it ; I can^t
tell.' ' But you can tell what happened when you came down the Ohio?' * Oh
yes.' And the tranquil and rapt expression, which this conversation had disturb-
ed, returned again, and he repeated several additional particulars. Suddenly he
stopped, would answer no questions, burst into a fit of tears, and his emotion
seemed so great and uncontrollable, that the audience became alarmed, and Dr.
B. hastened to calm the excitement : and touching the mirthful organs, T., with
his tears yet wet upon his cheek, laughed as gaily as if no sad reminiscences
had ever crossed his mind.
" On being subsequently questioned as to the cause of his tears he said, that
all the particulars of his grandmother's death, (which happened after his arrival
here) rushed upon his mind with so much vividness of reality, that he found it
impossible to control his emotions.
" I remark here, that, in this experiment, there was no leading question asked
that might have tempted the mind back to the remote past. Dr. B. simply in-
quired, * What he was thinking of?' And every attempt which he made by oth-
er questions, to divert T's mind to the future, proved ineffectual, and seemed tO
be regarded by him as an annoying interruption. * * * *
"Another experiment was very amusing. After writing on the board ' Hunger,*
Dr. B. excited what he calls the organ of Alimentiveness. T. looked uneasily
around. 'What do you want ?' ' Nothing.' * How do you feel ?' T. —' F m very
hungry.' 'Would you like something to eat ?' (Very eagerly) 'Yes that I would.'
* I have sent tor something to eat. '
Have you ?' and T.*s gaze became imme-
diately riveted on the outer door of the lecture room. Shortly after, the messen-
ger returned with something in a napkin. T.'s eyes followed him as he advanced
to the platform with such eager intentness as excited shouts of laughter in the
audience. The napkin contained some cold, stale, corn bread, which Dr B. had
requested should, if possible, be procured. 'Will you have it?' said the Dr.
•Yes, yes, give it me ;' and T. snatched at it with the eagerness of a famished
animal, rather than a human being ;and literally devoured it with such ravenous
rapidity, that the audience were in serious alarm lest he should be choked on the
spot. * * * *
"The private experiments took place in the presence of a small circle of friends,
nmong whom were two members of the medical profession, residing here.—
ANIMAL MAaNETI3M. T5
Pdreviously to commencing these. Dr. B. informed us, that as his intention waa
to show the absolute control which he could exert over the constitution of T—
C , he would endeavor to produce any effect which, in writing, he might bo
requested to do. The experiments which followed, therefore, were either the
result of a request expressed in writing by one of the party, or else the Dr. passed
around a paper stating explicitly the effect he proposed to produce,
"As Dr. B. had informed me, that he had already, in some instances, produced
actual theft, and believed he could do so in the case of T C , I asked him
(in private before T. arrived) to make the attempt. He requested me to ar-
range some tempting articles of jewelry on the table, half concealed by a news-
paper. I placed a gold pencil and a signet ring, in accordance with his request,
and the chair destined for T. was then set so that they were within easy reach.
The subject of this strange experiment had scarcely taken his seat, when, at the
toucli of the Dr's. fingers, his countenance fell, his head sunk on his bosom, and
he cast furtive and uneasy glances around, *How do you feel, T.? ' said the Dr.
* Mean enough' was the reply, in a tone that corresponded well with the words.
The Dr. then increased the excitement ; and the first effect discerned, was a
clutching motion of the hands. The Dr. changed the position of his chair, so
that his eyes fell on the pencil and seal. His hands seemed almost instinctively
to approach them, but he drew them back several times, as if in fear of detection.
Those present then began to converse on different subjects, as if not noticing him.
After a few minutes of listless uneasiness, gradually leaning over the table, ho
cautiously and dexterously conveyed both pencil and seal to his pocket handker-
chief, which he had laid on his knee, and hastily wrapped them up in it ; his
countenance the while exhibiting a strange mixture of fear and eagerness: it
was the very impersonation of petty thievery. Dr. B. then approached him.
* Have vou a pencil, T.V T. replied, gruffly, without raising his head, ' No.*
* Why, I saw one here, but this moment, what could have become of it ? Can't
you tell me V ' No, how should I know V 'You must certainly have taken it.*
'
I didn't : I never saw it.' * Have you really no pencil, then V As Dr. B. asked
this last question, he touched some of the honest organs; and T. raising hia
head, for the first time, abashed and mortified, gave up the articles he had taken.
" I asked T. afterward, what his sensations were, during this experiment.—
*They were some of the most disagreeable,' said he, <
I pver experienced : a sen.
sation of fear, overruled by a craving desire of possession •, I dare say just as a
thief really feels.' 'You thouccht the pencil very pretty,' said I, smiiinsj. 'Prettv!*
said he, ' I thought I had never seen anything so beautiful in all my life. I felt
as if I could go without food for a week, to get it into my hands.' * * An ex.
periment succeeded, which it was frightful to witness. By passing his fingera
in a peculiar manner, backward and forward, along the medium line of the sinci-
put, corresponding with the upper fissure of the hemispheres of the brain, the
effect appeared to be, to destroy all sense of identity ; to scatter the thoughts, so
that they could not be collected on any subject ; and to cause the legs and arms
to be extended in opposite> directions, violently and involuntarily. The patient
sometimes moved his head and body to one side, then to the other ; seemed ex-
cessively restless and uneasy ; his eyes rolled frightfully in their sockets ; and his
countenance indicated utter confusion of ideas, and vague apprehensions, almost
amounting to horror. When requested to strike his hands together, he made the
effort unavailingly ; when asked to rise from his chair, it appeard that he could
not do so ; and when assisted to his feet, his legs spread out laterally in so un»
natural a manner that he could not walk ; and, being afraid he would injurs
76 ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
himselt, we replaced him on his chair. He did not reply rationally to any of the
questions put to him.
" When restored to his senses, after this experiment, it was some little time
before his mind regained its equilibrium. He complained of the effects pro-
duced, as painful ; though his recollections of them seemed vague. He said he
felt as if his consciousness was dissevered ; and (as he phrased it) as if ' one
part of his head was thinking one way, and one another.' He added, that he
experienced an impulse to go in different directions at the same tim«. * * *
"A series of experiments made in Dr. O.'s laboratory, relative to the capabil-
ities of different bodies to conduct the nervous fluid, furnishes the following
general means. Of upward of one hundred inorganic bodies, all were more or
less capable of transmitting the nervous influence ; but of theae, metals and me-
talic ores were the best conductors. Of organic bodies, muscular tissue conduc-
ted the best, and with more rapidity than metals ; whilst horn, bone, whalebone,
tortoise shell, beeswax, feathers, and silk, but especially hair, appeared to be non
conductors. Perhaps, on that account, hair is the most suitable covering for the
head—^the central region of nervous action. It appeared also, that the conduc-
ting powers of substances augmented with their volume; and diminished as the
distance was increased through which the nervous fluid had to be communicated.
A very distinct impression, however, was transmitted, a distance of forty feet
along an iron wire one sixth of an inch in diameter."
We publish this account, partly for the purpose of turning the attention of
our readers to the singular position in which Robert Dale Owen has placed
himself. As an infidel, he rejects the evangelists* account of Christ's mira-
cles, and yet he has sent out to the world, under his own signature, with a
full confession of belief, an account of facts, quite as mystical and improbable
as those miracles. Indeed we may say, that in recording the experiments
of Dr. Buchanan, (assuming that his account of them is correct,) he has be-
come the preacher of a theory which establishes the possibility, and explains
the philosophy of all the wonderful works by which the origin of Christianity
was attested. He believes that Dr. Buchanan possesses an invisible energy,
a battery of nervous power, that is capable of acting out of himself, on the
bodies and minds of other persons, and in such a manner as to produce very
sensible effects, both physical and mental ; and that this power passes from
the operator to the subject, by simple contact, or by the medium of inanimate
conductors. In the hght of this theory, what is there incredible in the ac-
counts which we have of Christ's healing the sick ? It is evident that the ef-
fect was produced by a fluid that passed from him to his patients. He usual-
ly laid Ids hands on them. What was this but a means of establishing com-
munication between him and them, by which the vital fluid might pass ? The
case of the woman who was healed of an issue of blood, recorded in Luke 8:
43—48, shows positively that the healing power of Jesus Christ, was a fluid
that passed from him, as electricity passes from the machine that generates it.
She touched the hem of his garment and was healed. And he 'perceived
that virtue was gone out ofhim.^ Here is evidence, not only of a transmitted
fluid, but of the passage of that fluid, independently of the will of Jesus, and
by means of an inanimate conductor. This is all in accordance with the laws
of Animal Magnetism as acknowledged by Owen. At least it does not con-
tradict them, aud is no more mystical thaa the operations of Pr» Buchanan,
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 7T-
It is only necessai'y to suppose that the battery of vital energy in Jesus
Christ was immensely stronger than in Dr. Buchanan—different in degree,
not in kind—in order to account for the principal discrepances between Christ's
system of operation, and modern neurology. The vital power of Dr. Bu-
chanan is so feeble that he finds only here and there an indi\4dual with nerves
weak enough to receive any sensible impression from him. Whereas the
Spirit of Jesus Christ was so mighty, that all who applied to him were found
*
impressible.' Dr. Buchanan has power enough to affect his subjects simply
by contact, or by means of metallic conductors, without going through the
long and mj^stical, not to say nonsensical, process of ' making the passes,'
practised by the older magnetizers. But Jesus Christ effected his object in
many cases, by a still more simple process. Though he usually laid hands
on his patients, he healed many by his simple command, without the inter-
vention of any visible conductor. The battery was so heavily charged, that
its fluid passed Avhere faith attracted it, without any vehicle, but a word.
A few cases even are recorded, in which cures were performed, without eith-
er word or contact, and with a great distance between the operator and the
subject. Dr. Buchanan could sensibly affect a person at the distance of for-
ty feet, by means of a metallic conductor. But Jesus Christ healed the cen-
turion's servant (Matt. 8; 5) at a distance probably of miles, and without
any wire between. The centurion's faith, which Christ pronounced unparal-
leled, was the only conductor.
Perhaps in the progress of his investigation, Dr. Buchanan will find means
to increase his nervous power, either by self-training, or availing himself of
the power of others. But he will never approach equality with Christ, as a
practical neurologist, till he establishes communication with God, the great
source of vital energy. There is no danger that the miracles of Christ will
ever be rivalled by mere human neurologists. The stream cannot rise above
its fountain ; and so long as mere human life is the fountain of magnetic in-
fluence, its effects will only be proportioned to the w^eakness of human nature.
Ordinary animal magnetizers may cast persons into a trance, and awaken an
inward sense that shall give preternatural perception. And Dr. Buchanan
may, for the time being, exercise a perfect mastery over the faculties of a
weak-nerved youth. But it will be found to require the vital energy of God
to heal all manner of diseases—to raise the dead—to make a permanent
change from sin to righteousness. These are the works of the Son of God,
Nevertheless we say again, that the miracles of Jesus Christ, as recorded
by the evangelists, were evidently, as to their philosophical nature, and the
process by which they were performed, operations of the same kind with the
experiments of Dr. Buchanan ; certainly not more mysterious—different only
in the degree of their power. And Owen, if he believes in Dr. Buchanan,
ought to believe in Jesus Christ.
It is easy to foresee that the development of Animal Magnetism which is
in progress, will ultimately turn to good account in relation to many other
matters of faith, beside the miracles of Christ. The doctrines of the ^ fel-
lowship of spirits,'—of the '
outpouring of the Holy Ghost'—of the union
of God and man—of Christ in the saints—of God's ^ working in us to TviU
V
78 THE DIVINE NATURE.
and to do'—of the manifestation of ' God's righteousness' in human nature
of the workings of Satan in the ungodly—and diabohcal possession ; in short,
all the spiritual doctrines of the Bible will cease to be regarded as mystical
and irrational, when the principles of neurology, as acknowledged by Owen,
are admitted to be true, and are followed out to their consequences. If man
can operate on his fellow man, so as to produce any variety of moral charac-
ter at ])leasure, why should it be thought an incredible thing that the omnip-
otent God should take a permanent possession of the human faculties, and
through them manifest his own perfect righteousness? And on the other hand
if Dr. Buchanan could make his subjects thievish, or insane, by a touch of his
fingers, is there any difficulty in believing that Satan is actually the father
of the evil works which the Bible ascribes to him ; that he 'entered into^ Judas,
for instance, and caused him to betray Christ ; or that th« insane wretches
whom Christ exorcised, were actually possessed of devils ? In a word, if hu-
man nature is an mstrument, the strings of which answer to the touch of flesh
and blood, may we not well believe that it is subject to the mastery of the
good and evil powers of the spiritual world ?
On the whole, we are persuaded that the carnal philosophers and infidels
who are investigating and advocating, or giving their assent to the principles
of animal magnetism, will find themselves, ere long, shut up to the faith of the
gospel of him whom they now despise.
§ 12. THE DIVINE NATURE,
In the first chapters of the Bible, we find clear intimations of a plurality
of persons in the Godhead. The Hebrew word which is translated God, in
Gen. 1: 1, &c., is in the plural form. God is represented as conversing
with himself, as though two persons were consulting together. Gen. 1: 26,
8: 22, 11: 7. The plural pronouns us and our^ are so interaiingled with
the singular pronouns he and Am?, in Gen, 1: 26, 27, that we can see no
propriety in the language -except on the supposition, that there is at once
unity and plurality in the constitution of God. Above all, it is declared that
he ' made man in his oivn imagef (Gen.l: 27;) and from what follows this
declaration, it clearly appears, that the word man in this case includes two
persons, male and femalq. The singular and plural pronouns are intermin-
_gled, in the language concerning the first man, in ^^ same manner as they
are intermingled in the language concerning God. Adam was the name of
a male and female being, concerning which the pronouns him and them
might be used promiscuously. Gen. 1: 27, 5: 1, 2. Taking this being as
^n image or miniature by which we are to form our conception of the nature
of God, (we speak of things spiritual, not physical,) we are led to the sim-
ple conclusion, that the uncreated Creator, the Head of the universe, like
THE DIVINE NATURE. t§
the head of mankind and the head of every family, though one, is yet Hwain;'
(Mark 10: 8 ;) in a word, that the creation has a Father and a Mother.
The x^evf Testament confirms and illustrates this conclusion. We there
learn that as Eve was in the beginning with Adam, and was Adam, so '
the
Word was in the beginning with God, and was God ;'
(Jno. 1: 1 ;) that
as '
the man is the head of the woman,' so '
God is the head of Christ
;'
(1 Cor. 11: 3 ;) that as ' the woman is the glory of the man,' (1 Cor.
11: 7,) so Christ is the glory of God ;
(Heb. 1: 3 ;) that as the woman is
the * weaker vessel,' (1 Pet. 3: 7,) so the Father is greater than the Sen
John 14: 28;) that as Eve was '
the mother of all living,' (Gen. 3: 20,)
so '
by the Word all things were made ;' (Jno. 1: 3, Col. 1: 16, Heb. 1: 2 ;)
that as the mother suffers for the birth of children, so Christ suffered for the
birth of the church.
We do not find the Spirit of God represented in scripture as a distinct
person, like the Father and the Son ; but as an emanation from those per-
sons—a living substance, fluid-like, (Acts 2: 17, &c.,) proceeding from the
Father, (Jno. 15: 26,) bearing the same relation to him as a man's spirit
bears to a man. 1 Cor. 2: 11.
Having thus in brief and general terms apprised the reader of our position
in relation to the grand controversy about the Godhead, we will now exam-
ine somewhat minutely, a single New Testament witness, whose testimony
is, in our view,* plain and to the point. The first epistle of John was written
in the ripest period of the apostolic age, and is certainly orthodox. We will
rest our case upon its testimony. What is its doctrine concerning the God-
head ?
Doubtless the passage which will first occur to the reader as the strongest
testimony to be found in the 1st epistle of John, or even in the whole Bi-
ble, in relation to the nature of the Godhead, is the declaration concerning
the three heavenly witnesses, in chap. 5: 7,-—'There are three that bear
record in heaven, the Father, the Word, and the Holv Ghost ; and these
three are one.' But unfortunately for the Trinitarian theory, that passage
has been abundantly proved to be spurious. Adam Clarke, a laborious critic
and strong Trinitarian, says in his introduction to the first epistle of John :
" On the controverted text of the three heavenly witnesses I have said what
truth, and a deep and thorough examination of the subject has obliged me to say.
I am satisfied that it is not geiiuine ; though the doctrine in behalf of which it
has been originally introduced into the epistle is a doctrine of the highest im-
portance, and most positively revealed in various parts both of the Old and New
Testament."
We extract from his dissertation at the end of the epistle, the following
^Sumrnary of the whole evidence relative to the three heavenly tvitnesses' —
" 1. One hundred and thirteen Greek MSS. are extant, containing the first
epistle of John ; and the text in question (1 John 5: 7) is wanting in one hun-
dred and twelve. It only exists in the Codex Montfortii, a comparatively recent
manuscript.
" 2. All the Greek fiithers omit the verse, though many of them quote verse 6
and verse 8 ; applying them to the Trinity and Divinity of Christ, and the Holy
80 THE DIVINE NATURE.
Spirit ;
yea, and endeavoring to prove the doctrine of the Trinity from verse 6
and verse 8, without referring to any such verse as the 7th, which, had it existed,
would have been a more positive proof, and one that could not have been over-
looked,
" 3. Thefisrt place where the verse appears in Greek, is in the Greek translation
of the Acts of the Council of Lateran, held A. D. 1215.
"4. Though it is found in many Latin copies, yet it does not appear that any
written previously to the tenth century contains it.
*' 5. The Latin fathers do not quote it, even where it would have greatly
strengthened their arguments ; and where, had it existed, it might have been most
naturally expected.
"6. Vigilius, bishop of Tapsum, at the conclusion of th^Sth century, is the
first who seems to have referred expressly to the three heavenly witnesses ; but
his quotation does not agree with the present text, either in words or in sense
and besides, he is a writer of very little credit, nor does the place alleged appear
to learned men to be genuine.
" 7. The Latin writers who do refer to the three heavenly witnesses, vary
greatly in their quotations ; the more ancient placing the 8th verse before the
7th ; a-nd very many omitting, after tho earthly witnesses, the clause these three
are one. Others who insert these three are one, add in Christ Jesus ; others use
different terms.
" 8. It is wanting in all the ancient versions, the vulgate excepted ; but the
more ancient copies of this have it not ; and those which have it vary greatly
among themselves.
"9. It is wanting in the/r<?^ edition of Erasmus, A. D. 1516, which is prop-
erly the editio princeps of the Greek text. It is wanting also in his second edi-
tion, 1519 ; but is added in the third from the Codex Montfortii, It is wanting
in the editions of Aldus, Gerbelius, Cephalius, &c. It is wanting in the German
translat'on of Luther, and in all the editions o^ it published during his lifetime.
It is inserted in our early English translations, but with marks of doubtfidness,
" 10. In short, it stands on no authority sufficient to authenticate any part of
a revelation professing to have come from God."
Let the reader examine the train of thought from the 4th verse to the
10th, and he will see for himself that the 7th verse has the marks of an in-
terpolation. The subject of discourse is not the nature of the Godhead, but
overcoming faith, and the power which gives birth to it in believers. Having
proposed the Son of God as the object of faith in the 5th verse, the apostle,
in the 6th, brings to view the influences emanating from him, which give the
testimony on which faith rests. 'This is he that came ly water and bloody
even Jesus Christ ; . . . A^id it is the Spirit that beareth witness, because
the Spirit is truth. [Here follows the interpolation, which we omit.] For
there are three that bear record, the Spirit, the water, and the blood; and
these three agree in one."* This is the original form of the passage. It is
obviously all that the subject of discourse requires. The witnesses that work
faith in believers, are defined ; and any extraneous discourse about the Trin-
ity or about witnesses in heaven and earth, would be a senseless digression.
Setting aside this spurious text, we find that the epistle clearly teaches
that the Godhead consists of two persons—the Father and the Son. The
divinity of Christ is every where insisted on. He is called '
the Word of Life
THE DIVINE NATURE. 81
wliieJi was from the heginning^^ ' that eternal life which ivas with the Fa-
ther,^ (1: 1, 2,) 't?ie true God and eternal Life.'' (5: 20.) He is coupled
"with the Father in a multitude of instances as the co-ordinate partner in
th^ AYOrk of salvation; e. g., ^Our fellowshijJ is with the Father^ and with
his Son Jesus Christ;'* (1: 3 ;) 'The blood of Jesus Christ his Son cleanseth
us from all sinf (1: 7;) 'We have an advocate with the Father^ Jesus
Christ the righteous ; and he is the propitiation for our sinsf (2: 1, 2 ;)
'Ye shall continue in the Son and in the Father;^ (2: 24 ;)
' Giod sent his
only begotten Son into the world that we might live through him ;' (4: 9 ;)
'The Father sent his Son to be the Savior of the world.' (4: 14.) His pre-
existence is recognized in all those passages which speak of hjm as having
been 'with the Father from the beginning,' as having been 'manifested,'' 'sent
into the world,' as having 'come in the flesh.' His distinct personality is
recognized in the appellation which is constantly given him of 'Son,' or 'Son
of Qod-' as also where he is called our 'advocate with the Father.' Indeed,
the main labor of the epistle is to establish the faith of the church in the di-
vinity of Christ, and his incarnation, as being the very corner-stone of salva-
tion. The antichrists against whom the apostle chiefly warns believers, are
they who 'deny the Son,' (2: 24,) who 'confess not that Jesus Christ is
come in the flesh;' (4: 3 ;) and he makes the recognition of Christ's sonship
and incarnation, the very test-mark of the true believer : e. g., 'Hereby know
ye the spirit of Crod ; every spirit that confesseth that Jesus Christ is come
in the flesh, is of Giod;' ' Whosoever shall confess that Jesus is the Son of
God, God dwelleth in him, and he in God;' (4: 2, 15 ;) 'Whosoever be-
lieveth that Jesus is the Christ, is boym of God ;' ' Who is he that overcometk
the tuorld, but he that believeth that Jesus is the Son of Godf (5: 1, 5.)
On the other hand there is not an intimation in the whole epistle that the
Holy Ghost is a distmGt person of the Godhead. It is spoken of as an ' unc-
tiojifrom the Holy One;' an 'anointing received from Him;' (2: 20, 27 ;
'the spirit which he hath given us.' 3: 24, 4: 13. In all these expressions
the idea manifestly is, that the Holy Ghost is not itself a divine person, but
an emanation from a divine person. In ch. 4: 2, 3, the spirit of God is con-
trasted with the spirit of Antichrist ; and it might as well be said that the
spirit of Antichrist is a person distinct from Antichrist, as that the spirit of
God is a person distinct from God. So in ch. 5: 8, the spirit is classed with
the water and blood of Christ ; and any one of the three may as well be
called a divine person as the first.
The discourse of Christ in the 14th, 15th and 16th of John, where he
speaks of the Holy Ghost as a personal instructor and ' comforter,' applying
to it the pronouns he, him, &c., (see John 14: 16—26, 15: 26, 16: 7, &c.,)
has perhaps as strong an appearance of favoring the doctrine of the person-
ality of the Holy Ghost as any part of scripture. And yet on comparing
1 John 2: 20, 27, with that discourse, we perceive that the apostle had ui
mind the very agency which Christ promised under the appellation of ' the
comforter ;' and there calls it an '
unction from the Holy One'—an ' anoint-
ing received'—and applies to it the pronoun it. There is no good reason
why John should have used impersonal language, if he had regarded the
SSi THE DIVINE NATURE.
Holy Ghost as a personal being ; but there is a good reason why Christ
fihoiild have personified the spiritual influences which he promised, though in
reality they were impersonal. He" wished to console his disciples in the
prospect of his oa\t:i departure ; and in their state of intelligence, it was
necessary that he should personify his promised substitute, in order that they
might appreciate it.
We beheve that any intelligent, unbiassed mind, taking this epistle for its
guide, would never doubt the divinity of Christ, nor ever surmise the per-
sonality of the Holy Ghost.
The ultra-Trinitarians of modern times, not only insist that there are three
persons in tlje Godhead, but that these persons are entirely equal. It w^ill
be seen that our theory is opposed to the last as well as to the first of these
dogmas. That the reader may see the difference between modern and
ancient orthodoxy on the subject of the equality of the Son with the Father,
and also that we may have occasion of exhibiting our own views more fully,
"we present the following extract from an Excursus in Stuart's Commentary
on Romans:
"If the Son as God be derived or begotten, then it must follow, that as God he
is neither self-existent nor independent. It is of no avail to say here, that his
generation is eternal, and that the method of it is mysterious, super-human, and
unHke to that of any created substance ; for one may very readily allow all thisj
and still ask, whether the word generation (let the manner of the thing be what
it may) does not of necessity, and by the usage of every language, imply deriva-
tion ? And whether derivation does not of necessity imply dependence, and there-
fore negative the idea of self-existence 1 This the ancient fathers acknowledged
almost with one voice, asserting that Christ is not God self existent, but derived
from the Father and begotten of his substance. The Father only they regarded as
self-existent ; not deeming it compatible at all with the idea of generation, that
the Son could vindicate to himself this attribute of divinity. So the Nicene fa-
thers call the Logos, God of God, Light of Light. They did tj'uly and really
regard the Logos as an emanation from the Father ; many of the fathers, (most
of the earlier ones,) as an emanation from him which took place in time, or rather
perhaps an emanation just before time began. Hence the familiar phrase among
them, Logos endiathetos, i. e. Logos which was in God as his reason, wisdom, or
understanding, from eternity ; and Logos prophorikos, i. e. Logos prophoric,
uttered, developed, viz. by words. This development many of them supposed was
made when God said, * Let there be light;' others supposed it to have been still
earlier, viz. at the period when God formed the plan of the world, Etnd thus gave
development to his internal logos, by the operations of his wisdom and under-
standing.
*' Prof. Tholuck, in his recent commentary on the epistle to the Romans, ap-
pears fully to maintain (with the ancient Fathers)' the dependence, and to deny
the selfexistence, of the Logos ; while with them, he strenuously maintains that
Christ is God. But one who is so earnestly desirous of seeking after truth as he
is, will not take it amiss, I trust, if the inquiry be here made : Whether the hu.
man mind can conceive a being to be truly God, who is neither selfexistent nor
independent ? If the Son have neither of these attributes, then is he indeed, what
gome of the Fathers have called him, a second God, and nothing more. I will
not aver that those are Arians and deny the divinity of Christ, who believe this;
THE DIVINE NATURE. 81
feut I must say, that for myself, if I admitted this, I could make no serious objec-
tion to the system of Arius, The whole dispute between him and those who main-
tain this creed, must turn on the difference between being begotten and being
made; both parties virtually acknowledge derivation and dependence; they differ
only as to the time and manner of these. Can such topics as these, which of
course must be mere mysteries, be properly made a serious occasion of division
or alienation among those who bear the Christian name ?
" The philosophy of the fathers permitted them to believe in a divine nature
derived. Of course they could maintain the generation of the Son as Logos,
without any difiiculty. But that we can now admit a being to be truly GoJ,
and to worship him as such, who as to his divine nature is derived and dependent^
does seem to me quite impossible. The very elements of my own views (to say
the least) respecting the divine nature must be changed, before I can admit such
a proposition.
"To say that the Son is eternally begotten, and yet is self-existent and indepen-
dent, IS merely to say that the word begotten does not imply derivation; it is to
deny that the word has any such meaning, as all antiquity and common usage
have always ascribed to it. It is, moreover, to give up the very ^octrine which
the ancient church strenuously maintained. Tholuck, who appears to maintain
the views of the Nicene creed, says (on Rom. 9: 5) : * The Father is the original
source of all being, (1 Cor. 8: 6. John 5: 26 ;) the Son is only the image of his
being. Col. 1: 15; 2 Cor. 4: 4; Heb. 1: 3. But, as being the image of the
divine Being, the Son is in no respect different from the Father, but fully express-
es the Being of God. As the church is wont to say ; The attribute olself-exis-
tence is possessed only by the Father.' Much as I respect this excellent man
and critic, how can I receive and accredit these declarations ? * The Son is in
no respect different from the Father, but fully resembles or expresses the being of
God ;' and yet to the Son belongs neither self-existence nor independence, but
they are attributes which belong exclusively to the Father? What is this more
or less than to say : The Son is perfectly like the Father ir. all respects ; and yet
in regard to that very attribute which beyond all others united makes God to be
what he is, viz. true and very God, u e. in respect to self-existence, (and of
course independence,) the Son has no participation at all in this, but it belongs
exclusively to the Father. In other words : The Son is in all respects like the
Father, with the simple exception that he is, in regard to the most essential of all
his attributes, infinitely unlike him. If this does not lie on the very face of Prof,
Tholuck's statement, and on that of all who hold that the Logos is a derived Be-
ing, then I acknowledge myself incapable of understanding either their words
or their arguments."
We do not feel the force of Prof. Stuart's reasoning. In our view, the
term Crod, both according to common sense, and according to the scriptures,
designates primarily the uncreated Creator. Whoever created all things,
ought to be worshiped by all creatures, and is therefore God, Thus John
proves the divbaity of Christ ; 'In the beginning was the Word, and the
Word was with God, and the Word was God. The same was in the begin-
ning witb- God. All things were made by Mm, and ivithout him ivas not
any thing made that ivas madeJ John 1: 1, 2. Here nothing is said about
the independence of the Word. His co-existence mth God from the begin-
ning, and his office of creation, are put forward obviously, as the proof of hi3
claim to the name and worship of God. (So Paul, Col. 1: 16,)
$4 THE DIVINE NATURE.
The Bible idea of the Godhead is very simple. It has its type in eYery
family. As the father and mother are to the household, so the Father and
the Word are to the created universe. The twofold head of a household, is
regarded as one by the law ; and the first father and mother of mankind
were in truth spiritually one. Eve derived her being from Adam,—and as
a separate person, was the ' weaker vessel' of the same spirit. This is
the *
image of God,' ' the mystery of God, ,
and of the Father, and of
Christ.' Col. 2: 2. Now it is not necessary, in order to make out the
obligation of children to reverence and obey their mother, that we should
prove her to be in all respects equal to the father. It is enough that she
is co-ordinate with him in her relation to the family,—that she, as well
as he, existed before the children, and was the cause of their existence.
So the fact that the Word is co-existent with the Father, and co-ordinate
with him in the work of creation, entitles him to the name of God, and the
worship of man, w^hether he is independent of the Father or not.
We do not believe that the Word was created^ or begotten, or that he ema-
nated from the' Father, in any such sense as to imply that his existence had
a beginning. We can as easily conceive that the relation which subsisted
between Adam and Eve,—viz. that of one person deriving life from, and
therefore dependent on, another,—existed from eternity in the Godhead, as^
"We can conceive of eternal existence at all.
In order that we may fully define our position in relation to the Unitarian
as well as the Trinitarian scheme, we will conclude this article with an ex-
amination of what we regard as the most imposing form of Unitarianismy,
viz. the scheme of Swedenborg.
Though the divinity of Christ is largely insisted upon in all his writings,
yet Swedenborg was not a Trinitarian. The unity of the Godhead is as
prominent an article in his creed as it is m that of Unitarians or Mahometans.
He acknowledges a trinity in one person, but not a trinity of persons. His
doctrine is that the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, are the soul, body, and
spirit of one person. The following (from his treatise on the 'Athanasian
Creed,' §17) may serve as a specimen of a large amount of discourse which
may be found in his writings on this subject
" That in the Lord there is a trine, the I>ivine Itself which is called the Fa-
ther, the Divine Human which is called the Son, and the Divine Proceeding
which is called the Holy Spirit, may be manifest from the Word, from the Divine
Essence, and from Heaven. From the Word ; where the Lord himself teachea
that the Father and he are one, and that the Holy Spirit proceeds from him and'
from the Father ; also, where the Lord teaches that the Father is in him and he
in the Father, and that the Spirit of Truth, which is the Holy Spirit, does not
speak from himself but from the Lord : in like manner, from passages in the old'
Word, where the Lord is called Jehovah, the Son of God, and the Holy One of
Israel. From the Divine Essence ; that one Divine by itself is not given, but
there is a trine ; this trine consists of esse, existere, and proceeding, for esse
must needs exist, and when it exists must proceed that it may produce, and this
trine is one essence and one in person, and is God. This may be illustrated by
comparison ; an angel of heaven is trine and thereby one ; the esse of an angeF
m that which is called his soul, and bis existere is that which is called his body,.
THE DIVINE NATURE. Sil
and the proceeding from both is that which is called the sphere of his life, without
which an angel neither exists nor is. By this tiine nn angel is an image of God^
and is called a Son of God, and also an heir, yea, also a God ; nevertheless^ an
angel is not life from himself, but is a recipient of life ; God alone is life from
himself. From Heaven ; the trine Divine, which is one in essence and in per-
son, is such in heaven ; for the Divine which is called the Father, and the DiVind
Human which is called the Son, appears there, before the angels, as a sun, and
the Divine Proceeding thence as light united to heat—the light being divine
truth, and the heat being divine good ; thus, the Divine which is called the Fa-
ther, is the Divine esse, the Divine Human which is called the Son, is the Di-
vine existere from that esse, and the Divine which is called the Holy Spirit, is
the divine proceeding from that divine existere and from the divine esse. This
trine is the Lord in heaven ; his divine love is what appears as a sun there."
It will be perceived that Swedenborg was not a Unitarian in the usual
sense of the term ; i. e. he did not teach that Christ was a man or an angel,-
but that he was one of the component parts of the Divine Being—the body^
as it were, of which the Father was the soul.
The doctrine against which Swedenborg's theory is specially arrayed is
that of the Athanasian Creed, formerly the accredited standard of universal
orthodoxy, which teaches that there are three equal persons in the Godhead.-
With that doctrine w^e have no concern. In what we have to say, we shall
answer simply for our own views, which are, that the Godhead consists of
two persons, the Father and the Word, who are not equal, but bear a rela-
tion to each other like that which exists between man and woman, and that
the Holy Spirit is their joint effluence or radiating sphere.
On this subject, as on all others, Swedenborg is fond of cutting short all
argument and appealing directly to intuition. Thus he says in his treatise
on Divine Love and Wisdom, §23
"All the principles of human reason agree, and as it were concentre in this,
that there is one God, the Creator of the universe ; wherefore a reasonable man,
by virtue of the common principle of understanding, thinks no otherwise, and
can think no otherwise. Tell any man of sound reason that there are two crea-
tors of the universe, and you will find in yourself a repugnance thence arising^
and possibly from the bare sound of the words in your ear ; whence it is evident
that all the principles of human reason join and concentre in this, that God is^
ONE."
We scruple not to avow that w^e have no such intuition as is here described^
and that we regard the assertion of its universal existence as a sheer assump-
tion. Our minds are so constructed that we never feel the force of that kind
of a priori reasoning or talk which undertakes to tell what the limits of un-^
created existence must he, without looking at the facts w^hich testify what
they are. Our difficulty is in conceiving of eternal past existence at alL
But we knoAv that something has existed from eternity, because something,
exists now ; and when we have past this point, we can as easily conceive,-
before examining e\4dence, that there are a thousand uncreated beings as
that there is one. The necessity of absolute unity as the sole occupant of^
the sphere back of the created universe can easily be taken for granted, but
can not easily be proved. Indeed the very persons who most peremptorily
B6. THE DIVINE NATUHH.
assume this necessity, Invariably fall away from it in tlielr tlieories concei'n*
ing the uncreated unik The orthodox ai*e sticklers for the unity of the final
cause, and yet they have their three divine persons. And even Swedenborg,
though he has but one divine person, divides that person into three eternal
parte '
esse, existere, and proceeding.' Or, if it should be insisted on his
behalf, that these parts are not distinct but altogether one, we may allege
further that he divides the divine nature into two constituents. Love and
"Wisdom, and says expressly that these are '
two distmct things.' (See Love
and Wisdom, §34.) Now it matters not whether the unity of the uncreated
is broken exteriorly by division into persons, or interiorly by division into
distinct spiritual components. If it is broken in either way, the assumption
that the uncreated must be an absolute unit is violated. We find in ourselves
no more intuitive repugnance against the idea that creation is attributable to
a dualty of persons, than we have against the idea that it is attributable to a
dualty of causes in one person, and we have no rational repugnance against
either. The only legitimate way to seek the truth in relation to the ante-
cedents of creation, is to descend from intuitive repugnances (which are
often nothing but traditional impressions) into the region of evidence.
The moment we begin to interrogate nature in relation to her parentage,
we find a repugnance arising against the idea of absolute unity in the un-
created. The universe proclaims that it is the offspring of love. But is
love possible in absolute solitude ? What is love ? Swedenborg shall an-
swer. He says in his Divine Love and Wisdom, §§ 47, 48
" It is an essential of love, not to love itself, but to love others, and to be
joined to them by love; it is also an essential of love to be beloved by others, for
thereby conjunction is effected. The essence of all love consists in conjunction
yea, the life of it, which is called enjoyment, pleasantness, delight, sweetness,
beatitude, happiness, and felicity. Love consists in our wilhng what is our own
to be another's, and feeling his delight as delight in ourselves ; this is to Jove.
Who that is capable of looking into the essence of love, cannot see
that this is the case ? For what is it for a man to love himself alone, and not
any one out of himself, by whom he may be beloved again ? This is rather dis-
solution than conjunction : the conjunction of love arises from reciprocation,
and reciprocation does not exist in self alone : if it is thought to exist it is from
an imaginary reciprocation in others. Hence it is evident that the divine love
cannot but be and exist in other beings or existences, whom it loves, and by
whom it is beloved ; for when such a quality exists in all love, it must needs ex-
ist in the greatest degree, that is, infinitely, in love itself."
Now according to this definition of love, if God is but one person, he could
not love till he had created objects of love ; and hence it follows that unless
some part of creation is co-eternal with himself, (i. e. uncreated, which is a
contradiction in terms,) there was an eternity before creation in which it was
impossible for him to be otherwise than selfish ! Have we no intuitive re-
pugnance against this idea ? Does not all nature cry out against it ? Is God
absolutely dependent on creation for the possibility of being happy ?
Again, if we reason from the seen to the unseen, assuming that the essen-
tial nature of the effect is in the cause, we have proof as broad as the uni-
vx^rse, that the Godhead is a dualty ; lor every link of the chain of productive
THE DIVINE NATURE-. 8T
life, in its whole visible extent from the lowest region of the vegetable king-
dom, to the highest of the animal, is a dualty. The distinction between male
and female is as miiversal as vitality, and all visible evidence goes to prove
that it is the indispensable condition of reproduction, i. e. of vital creation^.
If we find two elements in all the streams of life, why should we not infer
that the same two elements are in the Fountain ?
Swedenborg, in all his writings, labors assiduously to make known that
the human form is the archetype of all existences. He insists that every
specific society in heaven is in the human form—that the universal heaven is
in the human form—and finally that God himself is in the human form. On
this foundation, certainly, the only consistent doctrine of the Godhead that
can be raised is that of its dualty. For what, is the human form ? Is it the
form of man ? or of woman ? Nay ; it is certainly the form of all that
enters into the constitution of human beings, i. e. it is the form of both man
and woman. To call a male form alone, the human form, is as absurd as it
would be to call the right half of the human body the human form, or to call
* the odd half of a pair of shears' the shear-form. In our reading of Swe-
denborg's long discourses on the universality of the human form in heaven,
we have a continual desire to ask him which of the two human forms, or
rather Avhich half of the human form he refers to ? He says nothing, so far
as we know, directly on this point ; but he leaves us to conclude from the
fact that he evidently refers to but one of the two parts of the dual human
form, and from the constant use of the word manm designating that part,
that he refers to the male half. This being true, it follows that the female
half of human nature is not, in his view, of any account, and has no place in
the higher regions of heavenly and divine existence. The heaven and the
God of his theory, instead of being in the human form, is, if we may use the
expression, in the haelielor form—a somi-human anomaly.
For our part, instead of having any repugnance against the idea that God
is a bi-personal being, we find all our natural prepossessions in favor of it.
We are quite willing that the indications of the created universe should be
true—that woman as well as man should have her archetype in the primary
sphere of existence—that the receptive as w^ell as the active principle, sub-
ordination as well as power, should have its representative in the Godhead.
And we believe that an unsophisticated child would much prefer the family-
idea of a dual '
head over all'—a Father and Mother of the universe,—to
the conception of a solitary God.
If now we interrogate scripture, we find the testimony of nature exactly
and fully confirmed. '
God said, let us make man in our image, after our
likeness. * * * So God created man in his own image.' Gen. 1: 26, 27.
This is a favorite text with Swedenborg, and he builds large theories on a
part of the idea which it presents. But let us have the whole idea. If this
passage proves any thing, it proves, even in express terais as well as by im-
plication, the dualty of the Godhead. If man is the image of God, it is
fairly to be inferred that God has both parts of human nature, i. e., is bi-
personal ; and this inference is strengthened by the use of the plural pronoun
in the clause '
Let U8 make man,' &c. But we are not left to inference.
88 THE DIVINE NATURE.
The sequel of the passage quoted is this : * In the image of God created he
him, male arid female created he them,'' Here is an actual specification of
the first great feature m the human constitution which makes it an image of
God ; and that feature is its bi-personahty.
In the New Testament we have an account of the manifestation of God.
A person appeared in human form, professing to be, not the entire Godhead,
but the Son or Word of God, co-eternal with the Father, but subordinate to
him. In our controversy with Swedenborg we have no occasion to prove
that this person was divine. On that point he accepts the testimony of the
Bible as unreservedly as can be desired by orthodoxy itself. Nay, he goes
far beyond all orthodoxy, and insists that Christ is not only a divine person,
but the only divine person—the Father himself incarnate. He constantly
and vehemently maintains that the Lord (by which term he always means
Jesus Christ) is Jehovah, the only God of heaven and earth. He is a Uni-
tarian ; but he reaches Unitarianism by a road exactly opposite to that which
is usually pursued. Like ordinary Unitarians, he first plants himself on that
part of the testimony of scripture which asserts the unity of God. But when
he comes to dispose of the problem of Christ's nature, he turns his back on
them. While they assume the separate personality of Christ and save the
doctrine of the unity by denying his divinity, Swedenborg assumes the di-
vinity of Christ, and saves the doctrine of the unity by denying his separate
personality. We think Swedenborg has the more formidable task of the
two. It seems easier to get rid of the divinity of Christ than of liis distinct
personality. But in our view the true theory saves both.
We first plant ourselves on that part of scripture which testifies that God
made man in his own image male and female, (from which we mfer his bi-
personality,) and on the abounding evidence of the divinity and distinct
personality of Christ ; and then we interpret the assertions of scripture con-
cerning the unity of God by the rule which Christ himself has supplied.
The text which Swedenborg most frequently quotes in proof of the absolute
identity of Christ with the Father, is John 10: 30 'I and my Father are
one,'' And it may fairly be assumed that this text involves all that is meant
by the unity of God as it is elsewhere asserted in the Bible. Now if it can
be shown that the unity here intended is consistent with a plurality of persons
in the Godhead, the seeming inconsistency between the unity, and the dualty
which we maintain, will be removed, and the labors of the common Unitarians
to disprove the divinity of Christ, and of Swedenborg to disprove his per-
sonality, will be superseded. We conceive that the following sayings of
Christ entirely define the sense in which he asserted the unity of himself
with the Father :
—' Holy Father, keep through thine own name those whom
thou hast given me, that they may he one^ as we are, * * * Neither pray I
for these alone, but for them also which shall befieve on me through their
word, that they all may he one ; as thou, Father, art in me, and I in thee^
that they also may he one in us.'' John IT: 11, 21. The unity here prayed
for is expressly declared to be the same as that existing between the Father
and the Son ; and it is a unity of many persons, and is certainly consistent
with their distinct personality. It follows therefore that the unity of God,
THE DIVINE NATURE. 89
in the sense in which Christ and the Bible assert it, is consistent with his
bi-personahtj.
We know no reason why absolute unity of life or spirit is not as consistent
with dualty of persons as it is mth. dualty of powers (love and wisdom, for
instance) in one person. Universal common sense recognizes the substantial
unity of two persons standing in the relation of husband and wife. As '
God
created onan male and female, and called their name Adam,' (see Gen. 5:
1, 2,) making '
of twain one flesh,' (see Gen. 2: 24 and Mark 10: 8,) so the
common law of most countries treats man and wife as one being, and in
common speech they are called ' the united head of the family.' On a simi-
lar principle we believe that the Bible asserts the unity of God in perfect
consistency with the divinity and distinct personality of Christ.
As to its results, Swedenborg's doctrine is much the same as ordinary
Unitarianism. In effect, it denies not only the divinity but the existence of
the Christ described in the evangelists ; for that Christ constantly and in
various ways represented himself as a person distinct from the Father. The
very names Father and Son necessarily designate two persons ; and to say
that the two things meant by those names constitute but one individual, i. e.
that the Father is the only actual person, is to annihilate the Son. Christ
said that he w^as sent by the Father, that the Father was greater than he^
that the Father knew some things which were not known to the Son, &c.
In all this, according to Swedenborg, there was but one person concerned ;
which is as much as to say that the apparent person who said these things
was a mere phantom or nonentity. Christ constantly prayed to the Father
just as though there was a distinction of personality between them ; but Swe-
denborg's theory turns this into a downright farce, such as it would be for a
man to present a formal petition to himself, or for a man's body to pray to
his soul. But these incongruities are easily smoothed over by resolving as
much of the evangelists' account of Christ as is necessary into apparent truth,
and falling back upon the ' internal sense.' In this respect Swedenborg has
an advantage over common Unitarians.
The doctrine which only denies the divinity of Christ is certainly less irra-
tional than that which denies his existence. Both equally deprive the Chris-
tian scheme of its divine Mediator, and both, in our view, come within the
range of the apostle's test
—' Every spirit that confesseth not that Jesus
Christ is come in the flesh is not of God.'
11
^
«
^13. CREATION.
It is commonly believed that God created the universe 'out of nothing.^
Many, we doubt not, seriously imagine that this is explicitly affirmed in the
Bible. Yet it certainly is not : neither is there any thing in the Bible, so
far as we know, that suggests or favors such an idea. In Hebrews 11: 3,
"we are told that ' things which are seen were not made of things which do
appear.' But this is not an assertion that ' things which are seen' were
made out of nothing. They were not made of ' things that do appear,' but
they may have been made of things that do not appear ; and this is even
intimated by the form of the expression. Knapp says that the negative in
this sentence is placed by some after the preposition of instead of before it,
so that the reading would be—' things that are seen were made of things that
do not appear ;'
i. e., in fewer words, visible things were made of things
invisible. This is a more natural reading than the other ; and corresponds
better to the definition of faith in the 1st verse, which the apostle obviously
had in mind. 'Faith,' he there says, ' is the evidence of things not seen.'*
Here he illustrates that definition, by the fact that God made the visible
universe out of tilings that were not seen. He does not say in the one case
that faith is the evidence of things that do not exist ; nor does he mean in
the other that God made the worlds out of tilings that did not exist, but
simply that he made them of things that were invisible. In this view of the
apostle's language, it is obvious that, instead of favoring the dogma that
God made the universe out of nothing, it expressly affirms the contrary.
And whether we take this view or the other, no assertion or implication of
that dogma can be fairly found in the passage.
It may be thought by some that the word create in the 1st verse of the
1st chapter of Genesis, of itself implies creation out of nothing. But this
can easily be shown to be a false impression. The primary meaning of the
Hebrew word translated create, is to carve; thence it came to mean to form,
and finally to make or create. The first two of these meanings certainly
imply pre-existing material—something to be carved or formed ; and the
presumption is that the last meaning is in this respect like the others from
which it is directly derived, unless there is decisive evidence to the contrary.
We speak of men's making or creating things, not meaning that they had
no material with which to work, but that they produced things which in their
distinctive form, had no previous existence. Now there is no evidence in
Gen. 1: 1 that this is not the meaning, when it is said that ' God created
the heavens and the earth.' Neither the word itself translated create, nor
any thing else in the verse, determines the question whether God created
the heavens and the earth out of nothing, or out of pre-existing material.
But in several subsequent verses of the chapter, the same word is used in a
way which shows decisively that its proper meaning is to make sometliing
new of pre-existing material. In the 21st verse it is said that God ^created
great whales.' Eow did he create them ? By speaking them out of nothing ?
CREATION. '
91
Ifo. Re caused the waters to bring them forth^ as appears by what goes
both before and after the clause in question. Again in the 27th verse it is
said that God 'created man in his own image.' How did he create man ?
In the 7th verse of the next chapter we are told that he formed man of the
dust of the ground^ and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life. Here
we find the material out of which God created man—dust and spirit;—both
pre-existing substances. This demonstrates that the word creMed in the
first chapter is simply equivalent to made in the usual sense ; and does not
exclude, but actually imphes the idea of pre-existing material. The reader
will find further evidence that create and make are equivalent words, by
comparing the 21st verse with the 25th, and the 26th with the 27th, either
in the Eughsh or in the Hebrew.
' In the beginning God created the heaven and the ea^L' How did he
create them ? The writer immediately proceeds to inforai us. In the sec-
ond verse we have an account of the pre-existing material in its chaotic state,
^ without form, and void'—covered with darkness. The first act of creation
was the production of fight, recorded in the 3d, 4th and 5th verses. This
was the work of the first day. The second act was the separation of the wa-
ters beneath from those above, by ^firmament, which firmament God called
heaveyi. See verses 6, 7, 8. The third act was the gathering of the waters
beneath into one place, and the bringing forth of the dry land, which dry
land God called earth. Ver. 9, 10. It appears plainly by this account that
the heaven and the earth were not made in the order indicated by the first
verse as commonly understood, i. e. before every thing else, and even before
the first day. Heaven was made on the second day, after the production of
light ; and earth was made on the third day, after the creation of heaven.
The first verse then is simply a general statement of the whole transaction,
the details of which are given in the discourse that follows. It may properly
be regarded as an index or epitome of the whole chapter at the head of which
it stands. We are first informed in general terms that God created the
heavens and the earth ; then follows a detail of the process by which he crea-
ted them. After this detail, the first general statement is substantially
repeated and applied as we have suggested. The second chapter begins as
follows—' Thus the heaven and the earth were finished.' The obvious im-
port of this is :
'
We said at the outset, that God created the heaven and
the earth ; we have now related how he did it, recording separately the
events of each day.'
The common idea of Gen. 1: 1, represents God as making the heaven and
the earth twice over ; first at the beginnmg before the first day, and then
again on the second and third days, as recorded in the subsequent verses.
The most plausible form of it involves the idea that God made the heavens
and the earth by a twofold process, i. e., by first creating the raw material,
and afterward manufacturing it,—which is well nigh an absurdity ; for if
God could create the chaotic material of heaven and earth out of nothing,
we may fairly ask why he could not and did not create the finished fabric of
heaven and earth directly out of nothing, without going through a double
process ? Is it not unworthy of the omnipotence commonly ascribed to God,
92 CREATION.
to suppose that his first creative fiat only produced the mass of confnsiont
described in the second verse ?
Our view of the first chapter of Genesis makes the first verse the caption
of the account that follows ; the second verse a description of the state of
pre-existing uncreated matter ; and the third verse the beginning of the de-
tail of creation. This view represents God as creating heaven and earth,
not out of nothing, but out of substantial though chaotic material, which
existed from eternity. We venture to affirm that there is not in all the Bible
a hint adverse to this theory, however heretical it may seem to those who
have received their views of creation from orthodox tradition.
Having established ourselves on an exegetical foundation, we may now be
permitted to say a word about the pJiilosophical merits of the dogma that
God created the universe out of nothing ; and we confess at once that we
cannot conceive of a more palpable absurdity. If the Bible did not deter-
mine the manner of creation, (as we have seen it does,) we should still rely
confidently on the decision of common sense that to create something out of
nothing, is as impossible as to cause a thing to be and not to be at the same
time. It is no disparagement of the power of God to say that he cannot
make something out of nothing ; for power, be it ever so gTeat, must have
an object to act upon ; and vfhere there is no such object, it is no discredit
to power that it cannot act. If A can lift a larger weight than B, we give
A the credit of being stronger than B. But A has no more power to lift a
weight that does not exist, than B. The excess of A's power over B's gives
him no advantage whatever, in a case where there is no object to act upon
and if his strength were multiplied a millionfold, he would still be no nearer
the abiUty to lift non-existence, than he was at first. He would have stu-
pendous strength ; and the fact that he could not lay out that strength on
nonentity would be no disparagement of it. So let God's power be magnified
in our conceptions till it is worthy to be called omnipotence ; still the exer-
cise of it requires an object ; and it is not irreverent to say that he is no
nearer the possibility of creating something out of nothing, or performing any
other absurdity, than the feeblest infant.
It is a sycophantic spirit that seeks to magnify the power of God, by rep-
resenting him as able to perform impossibilities. Courtiers who have an in-
terest in swelling the pride of their sovereign, are always ready to believe
and prove his ability to be extravagant. The story of Canute, who was
assured by his flatterers that he could stop the waves of the sea by a word,
is famiUar to all. There is a vast amount of this kind of flattery in the
popular modes of reasoning about the omnipotence of God. But we may
be assured that God is neither duped nor pleased by such sycophancy. We
shall honor him more by appreciating his power as applied to substantial
material—by comparing his subjective strength with the objective difficulties
which it has overcome,—than by ' great swelling words' about creation out
of nothing, and notions which bring all his works to one common level of
perfect facility, making it as easy for him to create the solar system, as for
a man to snap his finger.
K any one, in view of our theory of creation^ is disposed to ask
—'Where
CREATION. 93
did the uncreated material of which God made heaven and earth, come
from V—we answer by asking another question ;
—Where did God come
from ?
That we may still further simplify our views of God's workings, we ad-
vance now to tJEie position, that creation was a work oe faith. This,
in our view, is the specific doctrine of the text on which we have already
remarked, viz. Heb. 11: 3.
" Throughfaith we understand that the worlds were framed hy the word of
God ; so that things which are seen were not made of things which do appear,"
Heb. 11: 3.
This verse is commonly supposed to teach that our understanding of the
fact that God created visible things out of invisible chaos or nonentity, is an
act of faith. The clause '
through faith,'' is regarded as an adjunct of the
verb '
understand.^ We reject this interpretation, and propose another.
The clause '
through faith,'' in our view, is an adjunct of the verb 'framed;^
and the verse teaches that God created visible things out of invisible chaos,
h^ faith. In other words, the apostle here celebrates not our faith in un-
derstanding the fact of creation, but Grod's faith in producing that stupen-
dous fact. Our reasons for this interpretation are the following :
1. Though the mere location of the words seems to connect ' through
faith' with '
imderstand,' more naturally than with 'framed,' yet the con-
text of the passage—the whole scope of the chapter in which it occurs
plainly demands the other construction. In the first two verses of the chap-
ter, and immediately proceeding our text, we have, first, a general definition
of faith ; and, secondly, an anouncement of the way in which the apostle
proposes to illustrate it, in the following words 'By it the elders obtained a
good re])ort.' Let the reader glance through the chapter, and he will see
that this announcement is the caption or summary index of all that follows,
leaving out of the account, of course, for the present the verse under exam-
ination. The object of the writer is to show by a long train of examples,
from the beginning of the world to the end of the times of the Old Testament,
that ' the elders obtained a good report through faith.' The reader will also
notice that the faith-exploits of the ancients are recounted in their chronolog-
ical order, beginning from Abel, proceeding along the line of the patriarchs^
judges, and kings, and ending with the prophets. Now how incongruous it
is to suppose that immediately under such a caption, and at the head of suck
a series of ancient deeds, the apostle should instance the faith of himself and
his cotemporaries as manifested in the mere passive understanding of the fact
of creation ! What has this to do with the subject in hand, viz. the faith of
the elders? What propriety is there in placing a present and general
instance of faith at the head of a chronological list of past examples ? It
is as if a man should undertake to recount in order the reigns and exploits
of the Roman Emperors, and should begin with the history of the United
States ! But let us try the other construction. 'By faith the ancients
[which is the true meaning of the word presbuteroi in this case] obtained a
good report.'' Under this caption, how natural and proper it is that the
writer should go back to the very beginning, and commence his series of
9|»r, CREATION.
mighty deeds perfomicd by faith, with the primeval act of the ^Ancient of
days.' First of all, God himself set the example of apprehending things
imseen, and realizing things hoped for, when he undertook to call visible and
magnificent worlds out of black chaos. Then follows in natural order the
fragrant sacrifice of Abel, the walk of Enoch with God, the ark-building of
Noah, the exile and pilgrimage of Abraham, &c, &c. At the head of the
series, instead of a modern instance we have the most ancient of all—
instead of an insignificant instance, the most splendid of all. The Almighty
Creator himself leads the train of believing heroes. We submit it to the judg-
ment of the reader, whether the scope of the discourse does not require our
interpretation with a force sufiicient to countervail the objection (which we
shall soon show is by no means insuperable) arising from the mere arrangement
of the words.
2. By comparing our text with the first verse of the chapter, where
the apostle defines faith, the reader will perceive that the language and
idea of the definition is carried forward into the illustration. In the defi-
nition ' the evidence of things not seen' is spoken of; in the illustration it is
said, '
the things that are seen were not made of things wMch do appear.'
It is evident that the latter expression was intended to correspond to the form-
er, and that the faith which the apostle aims to illustrate in what he says
about the work of creation, is that which was concerned in the making of
things that are seen, without visible material ; not that which is concerned in
tinderstanding that they are made. In other words, th-e latter clause of the
text, commencing at the words 'so that^ determines w^hat kind of faith was
in the apostle's mind ; and that clause is an adjunct, not of 'we understand^
but of ''the worlds were framed,''—showing that God's faith in the act of crea-
tion, and not our faith in understanding the act, is the point of illustration.
The demand for faith resulting from the circumstance that no visible material
existed wherewith to make the w^orlds, is not addressed to us. The worlds
«?'emade. The invisible has become visible ; and with the record of Moses
before us, it requires no great stretch of heroism to believe that the word of
the Almighty brought the change to pass. But there was a necessity for
faith on the part of God, when '
darkness Avas upon the face of the deep,'
and he proposed to call forth from that deep, a radiant, living universe.
3. It may fairly be doubted whether the mere understanding that God
called the world out of chaos, is an act of faith, either according to the apos-
tle's previous definition, or according to his subsequent illustrations. Where-
in does it difibr from common belief of credible historical records in regard to
past and distant transactions ? Are there not multitudes who credit Moses'
account of creation, without pretending to the possession of religious faith ?
If we admit that such an understanding implies an apprehension of the '
evi-
dence of things not seen,'' which is one element of Paul's definition, it cer-
tainly does not imply a realization of 'things hopedfor\ which is the other and
most important element. Devils apprehend '
the evidence of things not seen,'
I)ut not the ' substance of things hoped for.' Not an instance can be found
among all the subsequent examples, in which faith is exhibited as a mere be-
lief of historical truth. The faith of every worthy from Abel to the last of
CREATION. 95
the prophets, is represented as embodied in noble deeds, heroic reachings
after '
things hoped for.' We are not told that Gideon and Barak and Sam-
son and Jephthah and Samuel and David merely 'understood'' certain things
*
by faith, but that they 'subdued kingdoms, wrought righteousness, obtained
promises, stopped the mouths of lions, quenched the violence of fire, es-
caped the edge of the sword, out of weakness were made strong, waxed
valiant in fight, put to flight the armies of the aliens.' How puerile is the
idea of placing by the side, or indeed, in front of these exploits, a mere
understanding of cosmogony, as a kindred and worthy act of faith ! But
how glorious is the conception, and the analogy, if we understand Paul as
placing first in the fist of faith-works, the mighty fiat by which God subdued
chaos ! That act embodied an apprehension, not only of '
things not seen,'
but of '
things hoped for.'
4. We admit that the natural position of the words, according to our con-
struction of the passage under consideration, would be this
—' We understand
that the worlds were framed by faith,' &c. Nevertheless two reasons may
be suggested for the different arrangement which we find the apostle actually
adopted. (1.) As faith was the grand topic of the discourse, it was desi-
rable that it should be the leading word in the sentence. On this account
we find each of the subsequent illustrations commencing with the expression
* hy faith,^ and in some of them it is separated even farther from its verb than
in the case under examination. See the 7th verse for instance.* (2.) The
verb 'framed'' has another adjunct, viz., the clause, '
hy the word of God,^
It is obvious that there would be an awkw^ardness in saying—' The worlds
were framed by faith by the word of God.' Two adjuncts, commencing with
the same preposition, ought to be separated for the sake of euphony. Ac-
cordingly the apostle places one before, and the other after the verb. We
account for the introduction of the clause '
tve understand^ in this way :—
The position that God made the worlds by faith is a bold one. It is not ex-
pressly assumed in Moses' account of creation ; and mere worldly believers
of that account, would not so understand the matter. They would take for
granted that God made the worlds by some inexphcable exertion of omnipo-
tence, wholly foreign from human ideas and experience. Having no con-
ception of the spiritual energy of which believers are conscious, they would
not imagine that God in the act of creation only set the first great example
of faith ; and that men are capable of sympathizing with, and, in their
measure, imitating that act. '
But,' says the apostle, '
we, who know by
experience what faith is, and how it works, understand that the worlds were
framed by it. Let worldly philosophers mystify themselves as they may,
this is our view of the matter.'
5. Faith, defined as '
the substance of things hoped for, and the evidence
of things not seen,' does not necessarily imply reliance on the strength of a
superior, though this is the form which it assumes of course in the case of
* The reader should know that in the Greek, the word rendered in the common version
^ throughfaith,' in the 3d verse, is exactly the same as that rendered ^by faith' in the be-
ginning of many subsequent verses. The translators injured the sound, if not the
aense, in using through in one case, and by in the others.
96 CREATION.
created beings. God's reliance on himself gives him '
the substance of things
. hoped for, the e\ddence of things not seen,' and is as truly faith as is the re-
*'
liance of his creatures on him. But even if it is insisted that faith must have
for one of its elements, dependence on another, it can be shown that Crea-
tion was a work of faith in this sense. God, the Father, did not create the
imiverse directly. By the Son he ' made the worlds.' Heb. 1: 2. By
the Son '
were all things created that are in heaven, and that are in earth,
visible and invisible.' Col. 1: 16. See also John 1: 3. The Son of God
certainly created the worlds by faith in the Father. This is implied in the
expression—'By whom [i. e. the Son] he [i. e. the Father] made the worlds.'
The Son was the executive, the Father furnished power, and the faith of the
Son was the link that connected them. As Christ, in the days of his flesh,
standing before the grave of Lazarus, '
lifted up his eyes and said. Father,
I thank thee that thou hast heard me, * * * and when he had thus spoken,
cried with a loud voice, Lazarus, come forth ! and he that was dead came
forth'—so it is no presumption to suppose that the Son, when he confronted
chaos, and bid worlds of life and beauty come forth, ' lifted up his eyes' with
faith and thanksgiving to the Father.
The practical bearnigs of the view we have presented, are many. We
Trill advert to only three of the most obvious and important.
1. Our theory corrects a pernicious misapprehension of the nature of faith,
which is countenanced by the common view of the text we have considered.
"We find that Paul is not guilty (as many suppose) of degrading the grand
medium of salvation into an intellectual assent to historical truth ; but man-
fully adheres throughout all the examples he gives, and most emphatically
of all in the first, to the definition which makes faith '
the substance of
thi7igs hopedfor,^ as well as '
the evidence of things not seen'—a practical
and heroic, as well as an intellectual principle.
2. As far as mystification and darkness are evil, just so far it is good to
know how God made the worlds. Our theory allows us to regard the resur-
rection of Lazarus as a miniature of the birth of the universe. By this help
we can look steadily at that stupendous scene, and in view of the mighty
power, and the glorious faith which flashed life, light and order through the
depths of chaos, we can worthily glorify both the Father and the Son.
3. It is good to know that there is a community of feehng between us and
God in so vital a matter as that of faith—that God is our example and leader
in ' the race set before us,' our fellow-soldier and captain in the '
fight of
faith.' In all our struggles with death and darkness, it will cheer us to think
that the Almighty himself leads the van of the army of behevers—that our
warfare is but a continuation of the victorious agonism of creation.
§14. THE ORIGIN OF EVIL.
The great question which urges itself upon the attention not only of
theologians, but of every reflecting man in this world of sin and sufiering,
is
—' Whence came evil V
Before answering this question, suppose we present another, viz., ' What
is the origin of good f The plain answer to this, in which all will doubtless
agree, is, that all good comes from God ; and as God's existence had no be-
ginning, good has existed from eternity. But what if we say that a like^
answer may be given to the question concerning the origin of evil ?—viz.,
that all evil comes from the Devil ; that the Devil's existence had no begin-
nuig ; and therefore evil has existed from eternity.
The objection to this view which most readily presents itself, is, that evil,
if it existed from eternity, was unavoidable, and we cannot consistently
Harm the Devil and those who are evil, for their wickedness. But we as
readily reply that the same objection may be made to the praise which we
bestow on God and those who are good, since all admit that goodness existed
from eternity. God's goodness is certainly the necessary product of his
essential, eternal nature. But is he any the less praiseworthy ? If we an-
alyze our elementary ideas of moral truth, we shall find that we praise God,,
not because his goodness had a beginning, but for its intrinsic beauty and
usefulness. On the same principle, if the Devil existed and was a sinner
from eternity, we must blame his wickedness for its intrinsic deformity and
mischievousness.
It may certainly be presumed, with strong probability, at the outset of all
inquiry on this subject, that sin and death did not originate in God, or ia
any of his works. If we beheve with good evidence, that he is benevolent
and holy, w^e may safely be more sohcitous to clear his moral character of
all responsibiHty, direct or indirect, for the existence of evil, than to extol
his physical greatness, by representing him as the author of all beings and
acts, bad as well as good. All the proof we have that God is sincerely at
war with evil, invites and requires the presumption that he has not, either
by creation, by decree, or by permission, given birth to it himself. If evil
did actually originate in the creation of God, by his decree or permission,
then the whole warfare between good and evil which the Bible exhibits, is
apparently, so far as he is concerned, only a great farce.
The way then is fairly open, and a strong presumption plainly points us
to the simple intelhgible theory that the ultimate cause of all evil is an urir
created evil being ; as the ultimate cause of all good is an uncreated good
being. This is the theory which we propose to establish.
We hope none will be deterred from an examination of what we have to
say in support of this theory, by the clamor which professed theologians are
always ready to raise against it, as being identical with the ' exploded her-
esies' of the Magians, the Manicheans, and the Gnostics. We might say
m answer to this clamor, that many theories which were * exploded' by the
12
r
9B OHIGIK OP EVIL.
wise men of the dart ages, have, in later times, been found true. But, be
this as it may, it is not true that our doctrine is identical with the heresies^
alleged, if the common histories and reports of them are to be credited.-—
i^or example, the Magians, Manicheans and Gnostics, are said to ha?e taught
that the evil bemg created this world ; and^ since creation is the distinguish-
ing prerogative of divinity, they are justly charged with teaching the exist'
ence of two Gods. We are not exposed to this charge, because we have no*
fellowship with their theory of creation. We believe that one God ^ created
the heavens and the earth.' Again, the Manicheans and Gnostics (with all
the other ancient sects of Christians who taught the doctrine of two eternal
principles) held that the evil being was the author of the Jewish dispensation
and of the Old Testament, which of course they rejected. We believe that
the same God instituted both the Jewish and Christian dispensations, and in-
spired the writers of both the Old and New Testaments. Instead of setting
up a theory as they did, against the Bible, we have derived our theory
wholly from the Bible, and shall bring our proof of it from the Old Testa-
ment as well as from the New. It must be tried therefore on its own merits,
by the Bible, apart from all prejudice against former heresies of similar
aspect.
The great majority of religionists—all, we think, who are not turned far
aside from scriptural simplicity by their theological systems, and especially
all who have had any considerable spiritual experience,—will admit, without
requiring us to prove it, that the Bible recognizes throughout, the existence
of a personal, spiritual, superhuman being called the Devil, or Satan, who
is tlie central presiding spirit of the whole kingdom of evil. We are aware^
however, that a portion of the Universalists deny this, affiiming that the
words Devil and Satan are used in scripture merely as common nouns
equivalent to stacker^r and at^z^ersary, and are applied, not to a single
spiritual superhuman being, but to men or bodies of men. To this class we
oifer the following brief argument.
Christ and the evangelists used the words Devil, Satan, Beehehuh, kc.,.
without defining them. Of course, if they were honest, they used them in
their ordinary/, ivell known sense. What they meant by them, therefore, is
to be determined by showing, not what they might have meant according to
the original significancy of the words, or what they ought to have meant ac-
cording to our views of pneumatology, but what they onust have meant
according to the common usage of speech in the age and nation in wliich
they lived. The question is one, not of etymology or philosophy, but of
history. "What was the popular theory of the Jews concerning the Devil,
when Mattheiv wrote his account of Chrisfs temptation ? This is the ques-
tion on which the whole controversy hinges ; for Matthew in that account
introduces the Devil for the first time in the New Testament, without a word
of explanation, as though he was a well known personage. Of course he
adopts a pre-existing theory, and uses the word Devil in its predetermined
sense. To deny this, is to charge him with using a current word in an ten-
visual sense ivithout explanation, which is as bad as forgery. Assuming
th«n that the word Devil in Matt. 4: 1, is used in accordance with the urns
ORIGIN OF EVIL.
ioquendi of Matthew's time, we affirm that the hook of Job was the source^;
or at least the channel, of th'e theory concerning the nature and power of the;
Devil, which then prevailed. That theory represented Satan as a personal^
being, having place among angels in the spiritual world ; and ascribed to liiin
supernatural poAver (in subordination to God) over the minds and bodies of
men, and over the elements of nature. Every one of these characteristics
is plainly visible in the account of Satan in the 1st and 2d chapters of Job,
Moreover, it can be shown from extrarbiblical authorities that the Jews in
Matthew's time actually held this theory of the nature and power of the
Bevil, whether they got it from the book of Job, or not. Matthew used the
word Devil in accordance with this theory, and of course meant by it a per-
sonal, spiritual, superhuman being. So also Christ and the other wTiters of
the New Testament, used the words Devil, Satan, Beelzebub, &c. in their
popular meaning. They did not set up a new theory, and introduce new
terms. No matter, therefore, what was the original significancy or applica-
tion of those words ; they meant in Christ's mouth just what they meant in
the minds of those to whom he spoke ; and we think even Universalists will
not venture to deny that in the minds of the Jews they were appellations of
& superhuman, wicked spirit.
Assuming then the existence of a central, pre-eminent^ wicked being,
called the Devil, our inquiry concerning the origin of evil resolves itself into
the question whether that being was created by God, or existed from eter-
nity. We argue the eternal existence of the Devil, from the following con-
giderations.
I. The Bible plainly teaches that there is one uncreated person besides the
Father, viz., Jesus Christ. There is, therefore, no apiori absurdity in
the idea that the great antagonist of Jesus Christ is uncreated. Orthodoxy
itself teaches that there are three uncreated persons, or * eternal principles.'
Why may there not be one evil, as well as two good beings, co-existent with
the first person of the Godhead ? We see no more difficulty in the supposi»
tion of the eternal existence of the Devil, than in the received doctrine of
the Son and Holy Spirit.
II. We find no substantial foundation in the Bible, for the Miltonian hy-
pothesis that the Devil is a fallen angeL The idea that the person described
under the name of 'Luelfer^ in the 14th chapter of Isaiah, is Satan, camiot
be harbored a moment by any one who will candidly- read that chapter
through. The prophet, foretelling the deliverance and prosperity of Israel,
says : —' It shall come to pass in the day that the Lord shall give thee rest
from thy sorrow, and from thy hard bondage, that thou shalt take up this pro-
verb against the king of Babylon, and say—How hath the oppressor ceased \
the golden city ceased t * * * Q^i^e whole earth is at rest, and is quiet
they break forth into singing. * * * Hell from beneath is moved for thee,
to meet thee at thy coming: it stirreth up the dead for thee, even all the
chief ones of the earth ; it hath raised up from their thrones all the kings
of the nations. All they shall speak and say unto thee, Art thou also be-
come weak as tve f art thou become like unto us ? Thy pomp is brought
down to the grave, and the noise of thy viols : the worm is spread under
100 ORIGIN OF EVIL.
thee, and the worms cover thee. How art thou fallen from heaven,
Lucifer, son of the morning ! How art thou cut down to the ground, which
didst weaken the nations / * * * They that see thee shall narrowly look upon
thee, saying, Is this the man that made the earth to tremble, that did shake
kingdoms ?' &c. It is quite evident that this language refers not to Satan,
or to an angel of light, but to a man who had exercised an oppressive do-
minion over the nations. Yet this is one of the main props of the common
tradition.
The only other passages which are usually cited to prove the apostasy of
Satan, are 2 Peter 2: 4, and Jude 6, where the fall of certain angels is
mentioned. But these passages will be found on examination to afford no
support to that theory. Peter and Jude mention the same events, i. e. the
sin of the angels, and the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah ; and they
speak of these things as if they were recorded in the scriptures, and
well known to those to whom they wrote. Peter says the angels sinned, and
were cast do^vn to hell, and reserved in chains of darkness unto judgment.
Jude tells us in what their sin consisted ; inasmuch as he likens it to the sin
of Sodom and Gomorrah. He says, '
The angels which kept not their first
estate, (or principality,) but left their own habitation^ he hath reserved in
everlastmg chains, under darkness, unto the judgment of the great day.
Even as Sodom and Gomorrah, and the cities about them, in like manner
giving themselves over to fornication^ and going after strange flesh, [or
other flesh, sarJcos eteras,'] are set forth for an example, suffering the ven-
geance of eternal fire.' The account, and the only one which we have in
the Old Testament, to which we can suppose Jude to have referred, of angels
leaving their own habitation and going after other flesh, is found in the sixth
chapter of Genesis, where it is said, that ' when men began to multiply on
the face of the earth, and daughters were born unto them, the sons of God
saw the daughters of men that they were fair ; and they took them wives of
all that they chose.' Ver. 1, 2. See also verse 4, &c., where it is said that
' the sons of God came in unto the daughters of men, and they bare [giant]
children unto them,' &c. This view of the meaning of 2 Pet. 2: 4, Jude 6
and Gen. 6: 1, involves no intrinsic absurdity. It only makes a breach in
the theories of those who assume without proof that angels have not a corpo-
real and sexual nature. All the ancient Christian Fathers, and most of the
Jewish Rabbins at this day refer the term '
sons of Grod' in Gen. 6: 1, to
angels. Gesenius, the greatest Hebrew philologist in Germany or in the
world, gives it the same meaning, and classes it with the same term in Job
1: 6, &c., without a suggestion to the contrary. It appears then, that Peter
and Jude refer to a fall of angels which took place just before the flood, long
after the original birth of evil in this world. They say not a word that
authorizes the assumption that Satan was one of those angels : and the state-
ment of John (1 Epis. 3: 8) that 'the devil sinneth/rom the heginning^
understood in the lowest meaning that can be put upon it, determines that
he was a sinner before the fall of Adam, and of course proves that he could
not have been one of those angels.
in. As there is no evidence that Satan was ever an angel, we have no
ORiaiN OB" EVIL. lOl
Specific account in the Bible of his creation, his original holiness, and hi«
subsequent fall ; and the adherents of these dogmas (on whom rests the
burden of proof in the case, because as we have shown, the a priori presump-
tion is against them) are left without any scriptural support, except what can
be gathered from those general statements which represent God as the crea-
tor of all things, and the agent of all evil. We may refer to Col. 1: 16, as
a fair specimen of this class of statements. ' By him were all things created
that are in heaven^ and that are in earthy visible and invisible, whether they
be thrones, or dominions, or principahties, or powers.' Now as God and his
Son existed before heaven and earth, and are not therefore a part of them,
—so we believe that the Devil, being uncreated, is not a part of heaven and
earth, and is not included among the thrones and dominions here mentioned.
This view of the passage accords with the statement a few verses afterward,
that God has ' reconciled all things to himself, whether they be things in
earth, or things in heaven.' The atonement manifestly covers the w^hole field
of creation. The same '-
all things' that w^ere created, are also reconciled^
We must therefore admit either that the Devil was not created, and is not
referred to in Col. 1: 16, or that he has an interest in the atonement. Our
Calvinistic friends will not consent to the latter alternative ; and our Univer-
salist friends must not assume it, till they can show that the Devil is a part
of heaven and earth, which they cannot show from this passage without beg-
^ng the question of his creation.
Such passages as Isa. 45: 7—' I make peace and create evil,'—we refer
to the providential government which God exercises over all the concerns of
heaven and earth, whereby he determines the form and circumstances of all
events, without implicating himself at all in the origin of sin. He directs
the stream of evil, though he did not create the fountain.
IV. All the positive evidence which the Bible furnishes on the subject of
the origin of the Devil, goes to prove that he is uncreated.
1. We learn from Gen. 2: 9, and 3: 5, 22, that 'God knew good and evil'
before the fall of Adam. Evil therefore existed at that time ; but not in the
things which God had made, for he pronounced them all '
very good.'—
Where then did it exist, if not in an uncreated Devil ? We have no allusion
in all the Bible to the fall of any angels in the period between the creation
and the fall of Adam. A fact so momentous must not be assumed without
proof. That the Devil was the evil power which God knew before the fall
of Adam, and that he was the seducer of Eve, and the father of Cain, is
evident from Rev. 12: 9, Rom. 16: 20, IJohn 3: 12, &c. If he existed
at the time of the fall, and was a devil then, as these texts and the whole
tenor of scripture indicate, we must either conclude that God created him a
devil, which is contrary to Gen. 1: 31 ; or that he was created good and
had fallen, of which there is no account ; or lastly, that he was uncreated.
2. In the parable of the tares and wheat, (Matt. 13: 24—43,) the per-
son who sowed the tares (i. e. the representative of the Devil, as appears by
the subsequent explanation) is not described as a rebellious son or servant
of the owner of the field, but as '
an enemy,' altogether alien from ^
his
household, which is incongruous with truth, if the Devil is a pai't of creation.
102 ORIGIN OF EVIL.
Indeed if the Devil is a created being, who has fallen from original holiness,
he should have been considered as a part of the moral field ; and the question
' Whence came the tares V should have been asked first of all with reference
to his apostasy. To answer the question, '
Whence came the sins of man-
kind V by affirming that the Devil is the author of them, is only removing
the question one link farther back in the chain of causation, without clearing
it up, unless we can stop at this second hnk, and believe that the Devil is in
fact the uncreated author of evil, as God is of good. This is the idea which
Christ evidently intended to convey. He places the Devil, not in the crea-
ted field, as one of the seeds which God sowed, but side by side with the
uncreated Son of man, as a primary sower of seed. If the parable teaches
any thing, it teaches that the Devil existed and was an enemy, before the
worid was made ; and that his agency for evil is co-ordinate with that of
Christ for good.
3. Christ says '
the Devil was a murderer /r(??7^ tJie heginning.'^ John 8:
44. From the beginning of what ? If we say from the beginnihg of his
existence—Avhich is the most natural construction,—we must either admit
that God created him a murderer, which is contrary to Gen. 1: 31 ; or that
he was uncreated. If we say, from the beginning of the world ; then again,
we must either show that he was created before the beginning of the world,
and had fallen—Avhich we cannot do,—or we must say that God created him
at the beginning of the world a murderer,—or that he was uncreated. If
we deny, as some do, that the text means any thing . more than that the
Devil was the first sinner, we must place his apostasy before Adam's ; and
Adam's fail is the first we have any account of after creation : so that we
must either build up a baseless supposition of the Devil's apostasy, in the
period between creation and the fall of Adam, or we must admit that he was
uncreated. If it is said that the clause following the text, viz., '
he abode
not in the truth,' is evidence of his apostasy, we reply, that the Greek word
translated abode, is the same that occurs in John 1 : 26—' there standeth
one among you,' &c. Its first and principal meaning is simply to stand;
and the translators midoubtedly used their doctrinal, more than their philo-
logical judgment, in rendering it abode. But admitting that it means abode,
it still appears from what follows the clause in question, that if the Devil was
ever in the truth, the truth never was in him. '
He abode not in the truth,
because there is no truth in him.'* We may take this as a passage parallel
to 1 John 2: 16—'They went out from us, but they were not of us; for if
they had been of us, they would no doubt have continued with ws.' The
Devil forsook the external fellowship of the truth, (wliich we may admit he
once enjoyed, as he came before the Lord with the sons of God, Job 1: 6,)
ihecause he never had internal fellowship with it. If we have regard, in de-
termining the meaning of the phrase '
from the beginning,' to the usub
loquendi of the evangelist in whose Avritings it occurs, we must come to the
conclusion that he means to designate by it, eternal pre-existence. He con-
stantly describes the pre-existence of Christ thus :
' That which was from the
beginning.' 1 John 1: 1. 'I write mito you, fathers, because ye have known
Mm that is from the beginnmg.' 2: 13, 14. In these cases, it is generally
ORIGIN OF EVIL. 103
admitted that the phrase refers to Christ's existence before creation. But
"why should we change its meaning, when the same evangehst on the next
page of the same discourse, says ' the Devil sinneth from the beginning'?
V. Our position that the Devil is an uncreated being, is confirmed by its
harmony with several remarkable phenomena which we find connected with
his character and history in the Bible.
1. Many passages of scripture place Satan on one hand, and God or his
Son on the other, in an antithesis which apparently imphes that they are co-
ordinate antagonists. For example,—Christ commissioned Paul '
to open
the blind eyes, and to turn them from darkness to light, and /row the power
of Satan unto God.^ Acts 26: 18. James says, 'Resist the Devil, and he
will flee from you ; draw nigh unto Crod, and he will draiv nigh unto you^
Jas. 4: 7, 8. In the parable of the tares and wheat, as we have seen,
Christ is represented on one hand, as sowing the good seed—' the children
of the kingdom ;'
and the Devil on the other, as sowing the evil seed—Hhe
children of the wicked one.' Christ is the hfe of the world :
'
the Devil hath
the power of death.' Christ is the light of men : the Devil is '
the ruler of
the darkness of this world, and blinds the minds of them that believe not.'
Christ is 'faithful and true'—is that Word which is truth : the Devil '
is a
liar and the father of it,' and ' there is no truth in him.' Christ so loved
mankind that he laid down his life to save them : the Devil '
was a mur-
derer from the beginning,' and *
as a roaring lion, seeketh whom he may
devour.' The propriety and force of all this antithesis is greatly diminished
if we suppose the Devil tO be merely a created being.
2. It appears from several passages in the Bible, that Satan's ruling pas-
sion is ambition for divine^orshi'p. In his final assault on the integrity of
Christ, he took him up into a high mountain, showed him all the kingdoms
of the w^orld, and said, 'AH these things will I give thee if thou wilt fall
down and worship me.^ Matt. 4: 9. The Man of Sin, who is an mcarnation
of Satan, is represented as 'opj^osing and exalting himself above all that is
called G-od, or that is worshiped; so that he, as Grod, sitteth in the temple
of God, showing himself that he is God.^ 2 Thess. 2: 4. Now it is hardly
supposable, that a being, necessarily conscious, as all mere creatures must
be, of a finite, subordinate nature, should seriously undertake rivalship with
God. But that an uncreated being should do so is perfectly natural.
3. The fact that it was found necessary to send an uncreated being into
the w^orld to overcome the Devil, indicates that he was uncreated. If he
had been a man, he might have been overcome by a man. If he had been
only a fallen angel, w^e may presume that a stronger angel might have been
found among the hosts of heaven. If he had been super-angelic, and yet a
created being, it is certainly probable that an antagonist might have been
found or prepared within the bounds of creation, strong enough to encounter
and overcome him. It is only on the supposition of his eternal nature, that
•we can see the fitness of the mission against him of the eternal Son of
God.
In view of these considerations, and in the absence of all counteracting
evidence, we rest in the conclusion that the Devil is an uncreated being f
104 ORIGIN OF EVIL.
and that evil existed from eternity. We will now glance at some of tlio
consequences of this conclusion.
1. It is obvious that this theory modifies in some important respects, the
common doctrine concernmg the divine decrees. All will admit that God's
own existence and character are not subjects of his decrees ; many will make
the same admission in regard to the existence and character of his uncreated
Son. To these two primary, undecreed existences we add a third, viz., that
of 'the wicked one.' We regard the circle of creation as the boundary of
God's decrees ; and the existence and antagonism of good and evil not as
the subjects, but as the antecedents and motives of the act of creation, and
of all resulting decrees. The universe was manifestly created for the pur-
pose of furnishing a theatre of action for uncreated good and evil—a battle-
field whereon the Son of God and the Devil might both array themselves,
and come to decisive conflict, that the character and strength of each might
be tested, and each finally rew^arded according to his manifested deserts.
From the fact that God's foreknowledge extends to all events, and that he
might have abstained from creation, it follows that his decrees, in a certain
sense, extend to every particular of the great conflict—evil as well as good.
But we must bear in mind when we refer any evil event to his purpose and
agency, that his part in the transaction is simply to furnish the vehicle and
form, to determine the time and circumstances of uncreated evil. A general^
for the purpose of ultimately insnaring and destroying his adversary, may
open to him the passes and barriers of his own territory, and allow for a time
a desolating invasion. In such a case it might be said that the general, by
his foresight and permission actually purposed all the movements of his ad-
versary ; but not his existence and enmity, w^|dch made those purposes
necessary. So it may properly be said that Goa decrees all the movements
of the Devil in this world ; but not his existence and wickedness, which make
it necessary that those movements should be allow^ed, that he may expose
and destro}^ himself.
2. Our theory leads to new views of the nature and extent of human
DEPRAVITY. As the source of all evil in this world is an uncreated evil
being, it is evident that the ultimate principle of corruption in mankind is
spiritual. Men are wicked because they are enveloped in the spirit of '
the
wicked one,' and so are ' led captive at his will.' Tliis is true of all, in
their primary, unregenerate state.
But there is a subdivision in the depravity of human nature. Adam, who
was originally the workmanship of God, and a vessel of spiiitual good, be-
came by his fall a subject of the Devil, and a vessel of spiritual evil. The
streams from the two eternal fountains flowed together in him. His spiritual
nature was primarily good, as proceeding from God ; but secondarily evil,
as pervaded by the Devil. With this compound character, he had the power-
of propagating his own likeness ; and in giving direction to that power, the
antagonistic elements of uncreated good and evil were both concerned. In
fact, this was the point of their most radical conflict. As the offspring of
Adam's body was twofold, distinguished into male and female, part following
the nature of the primary, and part the nature of the secondary parent ] s©
ORIGIN OF EVIL. 105
the ofispring of his spiritual nature was twofold, distinguished like that nar
ture, into good and evil, part following the chai;acter of the primary and part
the character of the secondary spiritual element. In other words, Adam
had two sorts of spiritual children—one of them like himself, primarily of
God and secondarily of the Devil, of whom Abel was a specimen ; the other,
primarily of the Devil and secondarily of God, of whom Cain was a speci-
men. See IJohn 3: 12. Thus mankind are divided spiritually into two
classes of different original characters, proceeding respectively from mi-
created good and evil. Christ's explanation of the parable of the tares and
wheat plainly coincides with this theory. '
He answered and said unto them,
ITe that soiveth the good seed is the Son of man: the field is the world; the
good seed are the children of the kingdom ; hut the tares are the CHILDREN
of the wicked one : the enemy that soioed them is the DevilJ Matt. 13:
37—39. The reader will observe that two classes of persons (not merely
of moral qualities) are here represented by the good and evil seed. These
two classes are evidently alluded to in Gen. 3: 15, under the names of 'the
seed of the tvoman,^ 2ind. '
the seed of the serpent ;^ and their conflict and
final destinies are predicted. (For further evidence see Matt. 11: 19, 15:
13, 23: 33, John 8: 38—4T, 10: 26—2T.) The depravity of mankind,
then, is of two sorts. The seed of the woman are depraved, as Adam was
after the fall,—not in their original individual spirits which are of God, but
by their spiritual combination with and subjection to the Devil. In other
words, they are possessed of the Devil, and as to their voluntary or objective
characters are totally depraved. Yet they are not subjectively devils. The
divinity of their origin is evinced by the fact that they hear and receive the
word of God when it comes to them. ' Wisdom is justified of her children.'
Matt. 15: 13. '
He that is of God heareth God's words.' John 8: 47. ^My
sheep hear my voice.' 10: 27. On the other hand, the seed of the serpent
are depraved as Cain was,—not only by combination with and subjection to
the Devil, but by original spiritual identity with him. They are not only
possessed of the Devil, but are radically devils themselves. *^And their
distinctive character and origin is evinced by the fact that they have no ear
for the word of God. '
Ye therefore hear not, because ye are not of God.'
John 8: 47. '
Ye beheve not, because ye are not of my sheep.' 10: 26.
The most formidable objection to these views may be stated thus : If there
is an original difference in the spiritual natures of men, from which the dif-
ference in their voluntary characters proceeds, how can they properly be
treated as moral agents, subjects of law, worthy of praise and blame ? In
order to answer this question, w^e must define moral agency. A free moral
agent, then, is a being who has jpower to act, and knowledge of the right and
wrong of actions. So Paul lays his foundation : —' The wrath of God,' says
he, 'is revealed against all unrighteousness of men, . . . because that when
they knew God they glorified him not as God, . . . but worshiped the crea-
ture,' &c. Rom. 1: 18—25. Here is, first, the power of worshiping God;
(for the same faculties that enable one to worship the creature, are sufiicient
for the worship of the Creator ;) and, secondly, the requisite knoivledge of
God's right to be worshiped. Having simply these two qualifications, th©
13
106 OBIQIN OP EVIL.
ungodly are pronounced hvitlwut ^rccwsg'—proper subjects of the wratli of
God. Observe that the disposition or propensity is not taken into the ac-
count. It is not necessary that a person should have a good disposition, or
should be free from an evil one, in order to constitute him a moral agent,
responsible for his actions. It seems to be thought by some, that the pres-
ence of a strong propensity either to good or evil, must take away free
agency, even where the power of action and the knowledge of right and
wi-ong exist. But if this were true, God could not be regarded as a free
agent ; for his propensity to righteousness is all-controlling and unchangeable.
As God, with such a propensity, is yet a praiseworthy free agent, because
he has the power and knowledge requisite to do evil as well as good ; so the
Devil, with an all-controlling and unchangeable propensity to unrighteous-
ness, is yet a free agent, worthy of condemnation, because he has the requi-
site power and knowledge to do good as w^ell as evil. The truth is, common
sense in the matters of this world never makes the presence or absence of
any given propensity, or a balance of propensities, or a state of indifference,
necessary to free agency. The drunkard may have an unconquerable at-
tachment to strong drink ;
yet he is condemned, because he has power ta
abstain, and knowledge of his duty.
If then the disposition is not to be taken into the account in our definition
of a moral agent, much more is all consideration of the source of that dis-
position to be excluded from the account. If a person has the requisite
power and knowledge, it is utterly irrelevant to inquire either what his dis-
position is, or where it came from. He is a free agent, without excuse for
doing wrong. He may have a propensity to evil stronger than death ; and
that propensity may be either without beginning, or innate, or produced by
himself; still, according to the philosophy of Paul, and of common sense,
he is a free moral agent, justly punishable for his unrighteousness.
Now to apply this philosophy to our views of human depravity. When we
say that a part of mankind are the seed of the Devil, spiritually depraved as
he is, we affirm nothing inconsistent with their free agency ; for spiritual
depravity affects only the disposition, not the power and knowledge of the
agent* The Devil himself, depraved as he is, is a moral agent, free to do
right as well as wrong ; and certainly his seed are not less free. If men
have power to do wrong, they have power to do right ; for so far as natural
power is concerned, it is as easy to glorify God as to glorify self,—as easy to
feed one's neighbor as to kill him. And if men know their own rights and
wrongs, they know the rights and wrongs of every other being ; for the
whole law of God is summed up in this :
—' Whatsoever ye would that others
do to you, do ye even so to them. Havuig then the two essentials of moral
agency, their disposition, though it be diabolical and mnate, does in no w^ay
affect their freedom and responsibihty.
3. These views reveal the grounds of election and reprobation.—
* Whom he did foreknow he also did predestinate to be conformed to the
image of his Son.' Rom. 8: 29. What did God foreknow about those whom
he thus predestinated ? Our previous doctrine points to the answer. He
foreknew them as tho seed of the Son of man, *
having ears to hear' his wordj
OEIGIN OIT EVIL. 107
^nd for tMs reason he wrote their names in the book of life, from the foun-
dation of the world. The man that sowed good seed in his field, when the
tares first appeared^ said to his servants—'Let both grow together until the
harvest, and in the time of the harvest, I will say to the reapers, G-ather ye
together first the tares and hind them in bundles to burn ; hut gather the
tvheat into my harn.^ Matt. 13: 30. Here is election and reprobation foun-
ded on foreknowledge. If the reader will bear in mind that the unchange-
able depravity of those who are not elected to salvation is to be traced to
imcreated evil, for which God is in no way responsible, he will find no diffi-
culty in justifying their reprobation. God did indeed permit the Devil to
sow them as tares in his creation, and he foreknew that they would be sown.
So far therefore as permission and foreknowledge justify the expression, it
may be said, that he foreordained or decreed their existence and wickedness^
as well as their destruction. In this permissive sense it is true that he
^makes of the same lump, one vessel unto honor and another unto dishonor.'
But in this there is nothing arbitrary or unjust, because as we have shown,
his decrees of this kind are predicated on the necessity created by the exist-
ence of uncreated evil. Whatever odium attaches to the fact of the repro-
bation of the wicked, must at last be laid upon the head of the Devil, whose
eternal wickedness is the foundation of all the evils which disfigure the
creation of God.
4. The most mteresting result of the theory we advocate, is the glory
which it casts upon the benevolence of God. Selfishness may murmur and
brood over its bearings on the character and destiny of the creature ; but
loyal, loving hearts, will turn gladly to the brighter side—its vindication of
the character of the Creator.
The foundation of Universalism is a presumption arising from the acknow-
ledged perfection of God's benevolence. The advocates of that belief argue
thus : 'God is perfectly good. But a perfectly good being would not create
a universe which should involve in the ultimate working of its elements,
incurable, eternal evil. It is therefore irrational to suppose that the universe
which God has created involves the endless misery of the wicked.' Or the
argument may be stated thus :
'
God is able to save all mankmd. Since,
then, he is perfectly good, it is to be presumed that he will save all mankind.'
We call this presumption the foundation of Universalism, because we beheve
that without its support, all the other arguments of that system would be too
weak to uphold it in the public mind. The attempt to prove, simply by ci-
tation and exegesis of scrip bure, that all men will be saved, is sad up-hill
work. It requires no little audacity—and that not merely against popular
belief, but against blazing evidence—to undertake to show that ^everlasting
punishments^ in the Bible, means limited punishment, or no punishment at
all ; and when UniversaUsts find themselves compelled by the exigency of
their system, to march up in the face of the heaviest batteries of the Bible,
and attempt to annihilate theDevil, their exegetical boldness becomes amusing,
if not sublime. We cannot beheve that sober men would ever try to extort
Universahsm from the Bible, if they were not braced up to the work by the
antecedent presumption against endless suffering, from the benevolence of
God.
108 ORIGIN OP EVIL.
But this presumption is valid only on the supposition (which indeed the
opponents of Universalism generally allow, though we do not) that evil orig-
inated in God's creation, by his decree, or with his consent ; and that it is
in its nature finite and curable. Whereas, the true Bible-doctrine on the
subject of the origin and nature of primary evil allows no such supposition.
Evil existed '
from the beginning.' God was in no way concerned in its
origin, either by decree, or by permission, or by choosing as best on the
whole, a system which involved its birth. The fact that incuraMe evil exists,
instead of being a ground for impeaching the benevolence of God, is an ul-
timate, ante-mundane, independent fact, for which God is no more respon-
sible than he is for his own existence. However dreadful eternal sin and
suffering may be, there is no more occasion to murmur against God on ac-
count of it, than a man would have to mui-mur against his neighbor on
account of a flood or an earthquake. We believe that God's goodness is
perfect, altogether as unlimited and impartial as Universalists insist ; and we
agree with them that it is to be presumed such a being would not have crea-
ted a system which should involve the birth of incurable evil : yet we believe
that evil exists which is incurable because it had no begiiming ; that it has
invaded God's creation, and will destroy forever a portion of the human race
and there is manifestly no inconsistency between these two forms of belief.
The presumption then, in favor of Universahsm from the benevolence of
God, is destroyed.
But we go farther, and assert that the presumption from the benevolence
of God is as truly adverse to the system which Universalists suppose to exist,
as to those systems which they condemn. The same benevolence which
would forbid the introduction or allowance of eternal evil, would likewise
forbid the introduction or allowance of any evil. But Universahsts cannot
deny that tremendous evil does exist, even though it be finite. They see
that there is a 'hell upon earth,' though they may deny that there. is one
any where else. They clear God's character of the great cloud of endless
misery, but they leave upon it the little cloud of misery in this world. We
turn their own argument against them thus :
'
A perfectly good being would
not create a universe, which should involve in its working the horrible evils
which -we see in this world.' This presumption is the same in kind with that
on which their doctrine rests, differing from it only in the magnitude of the
evil to which it relates ; and it shuts them up to the conclusion that God is
not perfectly good, since they, in common with the orthodox, hold that God
did actually create the universe, including all the elements which have pro-
duced existing evil. We may say then, ' If the God of the orthodox, in
allowing endless misery, is, as Universalists insist, far from the standard of
perfect benevolence,—so the God of Universalists, m allowing the miseries
of this world, is only somewhat nearer that standard, but not perfectly good.'
The benevolence of God is seen to be complete, only when it is proved that
he is not the author, either directly or indirectly, of either infinite or finite
evil ; and this is proved only by showing that evil existed from eternity.
Believing this as we do, though we see enormous finite evil, and beheve that
evil 'vvill exist forever, we can truly gay that our God is perfectly good : \^
ORIGIN OF EVIL. 109
benevolence is without a cloud. We have no doubt that his good will m
large enough to save not only all men, but all devils and Satan himself, if
the nature of uncreated evil did not make it impossible.
Universalists may say, in reply to our reasoning, that the temporary evil
which exists is nothing but good in disguise—that men will be the happier
on the whole for having been subject to sin and suffering in this life, so that
the benevolence of God is not darkened at all by the theory that he intro-
duced finite evil. We have several objoctions to this position.
1. By the same mode of reasoning the orthodox prove that the introduction
of eternal evil is good on the whole, and not inconsistent with the perfection
of God's benevolence. They say that the endless sin and misery of a part
of mankind will produce the greatest amount of happiness to the race as a
whole ; the evil being infinite only in regard to duration, but finite in regard
to the number of its victims. If Universalists object that it is inconsistent
with justice and impartiality that a part of mankind should be sacrificed
eternally for the good of the whole, the orthodox may reply, that it is equal-
ly inconsistent with justice and impartiality that finite evil should be un-
equally distributed, as it manifestly is ; that some men should suffer more
than others for the good of the whole ; and that a part of God's creation, the
angels for instance, should share in the blessings of his administration with-
out suffering at all. We do not see but that the reasoning is as sound on
one side as on the other.
2. We doubt whether it can be shown that any evil, finite or infinite,
physical or moral, is good, or can be turned to good, in any other than a
comparative or relative sense. One evil, as being the preventive of another
that is greater, may be, on that account, relatively good. Inoculation for
the kine-pox is good, because it is a preventive of the small-pox. But if
there were no small-pox to be guarded against, men would not take the kine-
pox and call it good. The chastisements which men suffer from the hand of
God and are justly thankful for, are good as being curatives or preventives of
greater moral miseries, but in any other relation they are only evil. This
view of the efficacy of evil justifies the wisdom and goodness of God in vol-
untarily employing certam measures of it in the discipline of his creatures,
on the supposition (which we hold as true) that the miasma of sin and death
existed '
from the beginning,' as an ultimate, uncreated entity, requiring
preventives and expellents ; but it would not justify him in the twofold, self-
opposing work Avhich Universahst as well as orthodox theories impute to him,
of introducing into a universe free from evil, an awful disease as well as the
painful means of its cure.
3. If it were true that the evil which men suffer is not merely a relative
good, (i. e., an evil less than that which it prevents,) but is actually the
means of positive good, on the principle that contrast increases pleasure and
, is necessary to the highest happmess, then these three revolting consequen-
ces would follow, viz., (1) that the angels who have never been blessed with
sin and misery, are deprived of the highest degree of happiness ; (2) that
God himself, who has been holy and blessed from eternity, cannot be so
happy as those of his creatures who have sinned and suffered j (3) that the
110 OHIGIN or EVIL,
tnan or devil whose wickedness has sunk him deepest in the abyss of misery,
will at last be the happiest being in existence !
4. We have no faith in the theory of the Universalists, that evil is good
In disguise, and is a legitimate, necessary product of God's benevolence,
l>ecause that theory is not in harmony with the simplicity and sincerity
which we have learned to look for in the character and administration of God,
The Bible says that ' God is love ;'
that he '
is light, and in him is no dark-
ness at all;' that 'he tempteth no man;' that his works at the beginning
were '
all very good ;'
that his gifts are '
good and perfect.' In accordance
with these representations we find him in all his recorded dealings with man,
by word and deed, vehemently resisting all evil. Now to suppose that with
all this appearance of single-eyed goodness, he actually decreed or permitted
the first birth of sin and misery, either finite or infinite, and regards it as the
means of the greatest good, is to make him a double-dealer, unworthy of
confidence and love.
We are satisfied that the actual goodness of God in the gift of redemption,
or in the blessings of temporal existence, can never be seen in its brightness
and immensity, so that the heart shall yield itself to it with perfect faith and
love, and be borne by it into full and everlasting reconciliation, so long as
that goodness is viewed through the murky medium of that theology, whether
•orthodox or Universalist, which teaches that good and evil spring ultimately
from the same fountain. It matters not whether sin and misery are repre-
sented as coming by the decree of God, or by his permission ; whether they
are attributed to the free will of the creature, or to the motives by which
<jrod has surrounded him ; —it matters not how ingeniously their origin may
be mystified, or how long may be the circuit of second causes by which they
are traced to their final author : if they are conceived of as a part of God's
'<;reation—results of machinery which he has set in motion ; in short, if they
are not separated in the mind from the fruits of his goodness, and traced to
^a distinct and uiacreated source, it is impossible for simple-minded men to
^ive him credit and gratitude for any thing more than the bare balance of
good over evil ; which, so far as can be seen in this world, is generally of
;small amount.
The reader of the Bible sees that the redemption purchased by the atone-
ment is represented as a '
great salvation,' an ' unspeakable gift,' a manifes-
tation of divine goodness which challenges all possible gratitude. But how-
'•ever he may try to beheve and conform his feelings to this representation, if
lie holds the common views of the origin of evil, he cannot help thinking in
liis heart that the sin and misery which make redemption necessary—as well
^as redemption itself—is to be ascribed ultimately to God's agency. This
being the case, he sees that the greatness of the salvation which God gives,
is just the measure of the greatness of the ruin which he has previously
brought upon mankind : the debt is as great as the credit, and the account
IS balanced, leaving God's claims of gratitude no greater than would be that
of a physician who should first infect his patients with some horrible disease,
«,nd then labor to heal them. So men are exhorted by religious teachers on
all sideSj to admire and be thankful for the innumerable mercies and bless-
ORiaiN OF EVIL. Ill
ings wKIcIi surround tliem in the present life. But every one sees himself
suiTOunded also by innumerable evils. Sin and death cover the world with
desolations. Now if all that exists, good and evil, bitter and sweet, is as-
cribed to one origin, and lies mingled in the mind as one mass, men will
hardly see much of the goodness of God through the compound. It certain-
ly is not to be wondered that the great mass of mankind whose lot scarcely
presents a preponderance of good over evil, and who at the same time are
taught to attribute that lot altogether to God, are not very warm in their
gratitude, or sincere in their worship. They may naturally fear the power
of God, and therefore be rehgious ; but, with hearts blinded to his goodness,
however they may use the forms and professions of faith and love, their re-
ligion can be no better than the servility of sycophants, bowing themselves
before the throne of a grim tyrant.
The simple remedy for all this lies in separating good from evil, and at-
tributing each to its own distinct, uncreated source—bearing in mind mean-
while, that God, the fountain of good, is stronger than his adversary, the
Devil ; and that within the circle of creation, evil has its bounds beyond
which it cannot pass ;
—so that all evil may be conceived of, in a negative
and protective sense, as subject to the purposes of God. With these views
we may sincerely call redemption an ' unspeakable gift,' and adore the good-
ness which bestowed it, without subtracting for the ruin which made it
necessary : we may sum up by itself all the good which has crowned our
lives, and beholding through that alone the benevolence of God, may trust
and love him as heartily as if no evil had ever come nigh us.
§ 15. THE PARABLE OF THE SOWER.
" When much people were gathered together, and were come to him out of
every city, he spake by a parable: A sower went out to sow his seed ; and as
he sowed, some fell by the way -side ; and it was trodden down, and fowls of the
air devoured it. And some fell upon a rock ; and as soon as it was sprung up,
it withered away, because it lacked moisture. And some fell among thorns
and the thorns sprang up with it, and choked it. And other fell on good ground,
and sprang up, and bare fruit an hundredfold. And when he had said these
things, he cried, He that hath ears to hear, let him hear. And his disciples
asked him, saying. What might this parable be ? And he said. Unto you it is
given to know the mysteries of the kingdom of God: but to others in parables
that seeing they might not see, and hearing they might not understand. Now
the parable is this : The seed is the word of God, Those by the way-side are
they that hear ; then cometh the devil, and taketh away the word out of their
hearts, lest they should believe and be saved. They on the rock are they, which,
when they hear, receive the word with joy ; and these have no root, which for a
while believe, and in time of temptation fall away. And that which fell among
thorns are they, which, when they have heard, go forth, and are choked with
cares and riches and pleasures of this life, and bring no fruit to perfection.
But that on the good ground are they, which, in an honest and good heart, hav-
ing heard the word, keep it, and bring forth fruit with patience." LuJce 8: 4-15.
REMARKS.
1. We learn from tins parable that there is an original difference in the
characters of men—a difference which is not produced by the gospel, but
which exists before the gospel is heard, and is in fact the cause of the differ-
ent consequences resulting from the gospel in different persons. The ' word
of God* (which includes all the influences of the gospel) is represented as
seed falling upon different sorts of ground, and becoming productive or un-
productive according to the quality of the soil on which it falls. The good
and bad qualities of the soil, of course, are not produced by the seed, but
exist before the seed is sown, and determine its product. The plain purport
of the representation is that some men's hearts are hard, sterile and decep-
tive, and others '
honest and good,' before the '
word of God' comes to them
and that this antecedent difference in their characters determines the effect
of the word of God upon them.
2. We learn that the grace of the gospel is given to all, and that the
only reason of its failure to effect salvation in some is the depravity of their
hearts, and not the illiberality or partiality of God, or the defectiveness of
the gospel. The seed was so^vn by the way-side, on the stony ground, and
among the thorns, as well as on the good ground. The sower was liberal
enough and the seed was good enough to have secured a harvest on the whole
field. The only reason that parts of the field were unproductive was the evil
nature of the soil. So the gospel is sent to all men. God is good enough
and his word is fruitful enough to save the whole world. The only reason
that some never will be saved, is that then* hearts are not adapted to receive
and profit by the goodness of God and the word of his grace.
PARABLE OP THE SOWER. II
3. We learn that the hearts of some in their primary state, are not ' to-
tally depraved'' in the fullest sense of the expression, but are so far '
honest
and good' that the word of God when it comes finds sympathy in them. This
truth, however, does not imply that such persons, before receiving the grace
of the gospel, are 'children of God,' and have no need of salvation. Ground
may be good, and yet, for want of seed and cultivation, it may produce
nothing good. Nay, its very fertility may give a ranker growth to evil seed.
In order that good may be produced, there must be not only good ground,
but good seed. So men may have ' honest and good hearts' in the sense
intended by the parable, and yet, without the word of God, they may pro-
duce nothing good ; but on the contrary, evil in proportion to their fertility.
Their goodness is negative, or perhaps we should say receptive^ in distinction
from that which is positive and active ; and as such, is equally adapted to
foster either good or evil influences from without. In order to constitute
one a righteous man, and a ' child of God,' there must be not only a prima-
rily ' honest and good heart,' but an infusion of the word of God. The
' children of the kingdom' are not saved by nature, but they are adai^ted by
nature to be saved by grace. Being primarily in the devil's possession, the
soil of their hearts produces nothing but evil, till God takes possession of
them by the gospel. They are therefore '
by nature children of wrath even
as others,' and can only be saved by being born again.
4. We learn by comparing this parable with another which immediately
follows it in Matthew's account of Christ's instructions, that the good and
evil natures which men have in their primary state, are the offspring of the
Son of man on the one hand, and the devil on the other. This parable, by
itself, would be hable to question. One might say—' If the gospel is pro-
ductive or unproductive according as the hearts on which it falls are good or
evil, still there is a difficulty back of all this. Hoiv came the hearts of men^
in their primary state^ to he good and evilf Christ therefore proceeds
directly to answer this question, by propounding the parable of the tares and
wheat. We will simply quote the explanation of that parable, leaving the
text itself to the memory of the reader.
" He answered and said unto them, He that soweth the good seed is the Son
of man : the field is the world : the good seed are the children of the kingdom
but the tures are the children of the wicked one. The enemy that sowed them
is the devil." Matt, 13: 37—39.
It will be seen that whereas in the former parable the field is mankind
and the seed is the word of God, in this parable the field is the world and
the seed is mankind. In other words, the different sorts of men who are
represented by the good and evil ground in the first, are represented by the
good and evil seed in the second. So that to the question—' How came
men to have such hearts as are represented by the way-side, stony and
thorny ground ?' Christ answers, '
He that soweth them is the devil :'
and
to the question—* How came men to have honest and good hearts ?' he
answers, ' He that soweth them is the Son of man.' This ends the matter.
There is no room for question still further back ; for as the Son of man was
good ' from the beginning/ so the devil was evil '
from the beginning.' We
14
114 PARENTAQH Off 8IN AND HOLINESS-
have readied the two eternal causes of good and evil ; and we have no more
reason to ask, *
How came the devil to be evil ?—than '
How came the Son
of man to be good ?*
These views leave on the character of God no Just imputation of illiberality
or partiality, either in respect to the gifts of nature or of grace ; while they
ascribe salvation, both in respect to the ' honest and good heart' which is it»
antecedent condition, and the word of the gospel, which is its eiSicient cause^
to the Son of man.
§16. THE PARENTAGE OF SIN AND HOLINESS.
' Whei!^ lust hath conceived^ it hnngeth forth sin.^ James 1 : 15. The
Greek word translated lust in this passage, means simply desire. It is so
translated in Luke 22: 15, PhiL 1: 23, and is used there and elsewhere in
a good s'ense. James is not to be understood as intimating (as the usual
meaning of the word lust would seem to intimate) that there is sin in lust
or desire previous to the conception and birth of sin. He means that the
natural desires of human nature, which are not sinful in themselves, are to
sin what the mother is to the child.
Now in every case of conception and birth, there is not only a mother,
but a father. Who then is the father of gin ? By whom does ^ lust con-
ceive'? The obvious answer is 'The Wicked One.^ Sin is the product of
the joint agency, of human desire and the spirit of Satan. So it was in the
original transgression. Eve's natural desire of food and wisdom was not sin-
ful, but it was a womb in w^hich the serpent, by words of falsehood, begot
sin. The transgression was the consequence of a spiritual conjunction be-
tween her desire and his wickedness. So it was in the treason of Judas.
His love of money was provoked and inflamed by the affair of the alabaster
box, and then * Satan entered into him.* Hence the conception and birth
of his horrible crime. So in the case of Ananias and Sapphira, Peter asked
—* Why hath Satan filled thine heart to lie to the Holy Ghost V Their lie
was a child begotten in their hearts by Satan. Accordingly John says Hhe
devil is a liar and the father of it,^
In natural generation the Father gives his own image to the child, and
the same mother may bear children of one complexion by one husband, and
children of a different complexion by another. So human desire, or the
mother of moral action, may conceive by conjuction with the spirit of God,
as weU as with the Spirit of Satan ; and in that case (since the child bears
the image of the father) the product will be righteousness, as in the other
case it was sin. So that the counterpart of our former statement is also true,
viz., righteousness is the product of the joint agency of human desire and
the spirit of Crod. Peter's strong susceptibilities in conjunction with the
spirit of Satan, produced impudent resistance to Christ, and afterward a
THE CAUSE AND THE CURE. 115
lying denial of him. And those same susceptibilities in conjunction with the
spirit of God after the day of Pentecost, brought forth innumerable acts of
undaunted righteousness. Paul, with his fiery zeal, while he had Satan for
his husband, persecuted the flock of God without mercy. When he was
married to Christ, the fruits of the same fiery zeal were gigantic labors of
love. By the following specimens it will be seen that the language of scrip-
ture concerning the conception and birth of righteousness, is the counterpart
of James' description of the generation of sin. ' Being made free from sin
and become servants to God, [that is subjects of his Spirit,] ye have your
fruit unto holiness.'' Rom. 5: 22. ' Ye are become dead to the law by the
body of Christ, that ye should be married to another, even to him that is
raised from the dead, that we should bring forth fruit unto Gfod.^ Rom, 7: 4.
See also John 15: 5, Gal. 5: 22,
The Bible theory, then, of the parentage of moral action is briefly this
Human nature is a female which conceives and brings forth sin or right-
eousness, according as it has Satan oi> God for its husband.
Practical Remarks. 1. We see the foliy of attempting to prevent sin
by the law, or by any means that operate only to hinder actual transgression.
While man is married to the devil, commerce between them must continue,
and conception must take place. All the law can do is to forbid the birth,
i. e. attempt to pi'oduce abortion, or condemn the offspring when it is born.
The only effectual way is to bring about a divorce, and stop the commerce
and conception. This can be done only by the power of God.
2. We see that the true way to produce righteousness is to preach Christ
and the ministration of the Spirit. Let man be majried to God by faith and
spiritual conjunction, and righteousness wiU be brought forth, by a process
as sure as that of natural generation.
i^l7. THE CAUSE AND THE CURK
'
They that are whole need not a physician, but they that are sick.' So
they that are sick, will not call the right physician, or apply the right rem-
edy, unless they know the worst of their case—the inward depth and final
cause of their malady.
Antiquated and unfashionable as our doctrine may seem in these days of
scientific discovery, we feel bound to proclaim in the ears of all who will
hear us, the old Bible theory of universal disease—the pathology of Jesus
Christ and his apostles, who constantly ascribed all th'C spiritual, moral, in-
tellectual and physical maladies of human nature to the power oe the
DEVIL. We confess, that the more we investigate, the more we are attach-
ed to Bible notions and Bible language on this subject. If a man is afflicted
with fever or epilepsy, instead of looking into his blood or his nerves, his
hereditary constitution or his diet, for the ultimate cause, we go back with
11(5 THE CAUSE AND THE CURE.
Jesus Christ to the vital principle, and ascribe his disease to the power of an
ev^il spirit. (See Acts 10: 38, Luke 13: 11—16, &c.) If a man's mind
is dark and impervious to the beams of truth, instead of regarding this as
the effect simply of the structure of his brain, or of his lack of education or
attention, we take Paul's account of the matter and beheve that ' the god of
tliis world hath blinded him.' (2Cor. 4: 4.) When men pommit immoralities,
instead of laving the blame on external temptation, we hold with Peter that
they work wickedness because '
Satan hath filled their hearts.' (Acts 6: 3,
John 13: 2.) If men's spirits are hard, impenitent and dead to all the at-
ti-actions of heaven, w^e find the ultimate cause of tlie fact, not in their
individual wills, but in the dominion which the '
prince of the power of the
air' exercises over them. (Eph, 2: 2, 2Tim. 2: 26.) Unphilosophical and
superstitious as we may be deemed for this avowal, we are persuaded that
even scientific investigation is progressing directly toward this very theory,
and that when the wisdom of this world has run through its whole circle of
discovery, it will find itself brought back to its most ancient starting point,
and will die acknowledging the truth of the Bible philosophy of life.
In holding these views of the ultimate cause of human maladies, we are
not obliged to overlook or di&regard secondary causes. All those external
influences and acts which are ordinarily regarded by physicians and meta-
physicians as the causeSy we admit are the occasions of disorder in the econ-
omy of human nature, and we attach due importance to them as such. If
a man in a state of perspiration exposes himself to a current of air, takes
cold, is prostrated by fever, and dies, we do not attribute his death to the
devil irrespective of his own acts and the physical influences which operated
upon him. But we call the action of the air upon his body, and the conse-
quent corruption of his blood, the predisposing causes or occasions of his
death, and the power of the devil the ultimate cause. We say that by hia
imprudence he exposed himself to a fatal influx of spiritual poison, and so*
the devil killed him. If a ship strikes a rock, springs a leak, and finally
sinks, the collision and the leak are, in popular language, the causes of the
disaster. But strictly speaking, the water which run in at the leak, sunk
the ship. So the cold and the fever may properly be called^ in common laiH
guage, the causes of. the man's death; but, strictly speaking, the power of
the devil which rushed in at the opening made by the cold and the fever,
killed him. So, too, outward immorahties are properly regarded as the oc-
casions of spiritual disease and death. Men are '
afienated [from God] hy
wiaJced ivorjcs/ Col. 1: 21. But the most deadly result of wicked works is
not the direct mischief which they work either objectively or subjectively,
but the '
breach in the spirit' and the influx of Satanic influence which they
occasion.
For the purpose of embarrassing our position, physiologists may ask
whether a man might hold his hand in- tke fire without injury, if there wa*
no devil ? We answer ; unless a proper miracle (as in the case of Shadrach
and his companions) should suspend the laws of nature, the man's hand
would undoubtedly be burned and he would suffer pain. But there would
be this difference between liis case and ordinary cases at present ; viz., there
THE CAUSI^ AND THfi GURU. 11
would be no subsequent inflammation, no chronic ulceration ; the power of
life would speedily repair the injury : whereas under the poisonous influence
of Satan, external wounds sometimes expand into permanent and fatal dis^
eases, and the cure of them is often protracted and difficult. Thus while
we may admit that in a w^orld free from diaboUcal power, external injuries^
both physical and spiritual, would be possible, yet we afiinn that there would
be no vital and chronic diseases either of soul or body* And we may say
further, that, if there was no devil to pervert the understandings and cor-
rupt the ways of men, the laws of nature would not be transgressed, and
even external injuries, though physically possible, would be exceedingly rare^
if not altogether unknown.
Nor are we obliged by our theory to suppose that the devil is omniscient
and omnipresent in such a sense that he personally purposes and superintends
every particular instance of sin and death that occurs in the world. The
true view is this :
—Satan's s^pirit is an atmosphere that envelopes mankind,
pressing (we may say figuratively) hke the air, with a w^eight of ' fifteen
pomids on every square inch' of human life. Wherever there is a vacuum
in men's hearts, there that spirit enters, and manifests itself in selfishness,'
covetousness, and all evil works. Wherever the laws of life are violated,
either physically or spiritually, there that spirit infuses its poison, aggrava-
ting and perpetuating the injury. '
We know,' says the apostle, ' that the
whole world lieth in the wicked one.'' 1 John 5: 19. We can easily con-
ceive that any number of men, lying in a poisonous atmosphere, migiit be
diseased by it in a variety of ways, without supposing any personal superin-^
tendence of the being from whom the poison might emanate.
We believe that the devil is a personal being, and that he exercises an ex'
tensive personal superintendence over specific transactions, (as for instance,
in the temptation of Christ, and in the treachery of Judas.) Indeed we see
much evidence that there is a general influence at work in the affairs of the
world, which might properly be called the deviVs j)rovidence. Eut ^\e re--
gard it as altogether unnecessary and foolish to refer (as some are prone ta
do) every particular manifestation of evil to the personal volitions of Satan ^
The universal presence and pressure of his spirit is a sufficient cause of
general evil ; and w^e are justified by the example of the Bible writers in
referring to tliis cause every specific instance of sin and suffering.
This theory of spiritual pressure throws light on many moral phenomena,,
just as the discovery of the weight of the atmosphere explained many physi'
cal facts which were before mysterious. The time was when men (philoso--
phers and all) supposed that the ascent of water in a pump w^as produced
by some inexplicable attraction, or suction, as it was called, of the piston or"
bucket. In other words, they imagined that the power which raised ther
. water was in the pump. But it is now well known that the water is forced
up in the pump by the atmosphere without, which presses with a weight of
fifteen pounds on every square inch of the earth's surface. The only effect
of the piston is to remove this pressure from the water within the pump, and-
so allow the pressure on the outside to force that water upward. In like'
mamier, men are accustomed to imagine, when they see a person full of
118 THE CAUSE AND THE CURE,
covefcousness for instance, that the cause of his covetousness is in himself.
Whereas our philosophy teaches that he is notliing but a spiritual cylinder
into which the atmospheric selfishness that covers the whole world has forced
an extra amount of mammonism. His own will, like the piston, only removes
the opposing force—and the phenomena of his character, like those of pump-
ing, may be said to be illustrations of general ' atmospheric pressure,' rather
than of individual '
suction.' The same principle might be applied and illus-
trated in many otlier ways ; but it is sufficient to say in general that we shall
never understand our own characters or those of others—never know how to
exercise discriminating charity in judgment—never have just views of the
nature and causes of the physical and intellectual, as well as moral and spir-
itual evils that exist around us,—until we learn to regard individual action
and experience as the result in a very great measure of a general spiritual
influence.
The fact that '
the whole w^orld lieth in the wicked one,' is not inconsis-
tent with the existence of much donnant and incipient good in human nature.
Indeed, the ' prince of the power of the air' has within his spiritual enclo-
sures many rebellious forces to contend with. The self-preservative and
reproductive powers of all life, the whole machinery of nature as constructed
by God, as well as the life-giving elements which have been infused into
human nature by revelation spiritual and written, are constantly resisting
and frustrating more or less the tendencies of the power of death. Satan is
obliged to allow in his subjects many liberties which are adverse to his do-
minion. And indeed he can aftbrd to do so, just as the government of the
United States, for instance, can afford to allow individuals and associations
to go almost any length in sedition, provided they stop short of overt re-
belHon. Men may study and combine to preserve th-eir lives and health
under the devil's administration, and may actually preserve them a long
time ; but they are not allowed to attempt, or even to think of attempting
to escape death at last. This would be treason. They may extend discov-
ery far and wide in every department of physical science from geology to
mesmerism ; but they must not break through into the mysteries of the spir-
itual world. This would be prying into jState secrets. They may make
great advances in civilization, refinement and morality ; but they must not
think of* attaining entire freedom from sin. This would be renouncing alle-
^^ance to his majesty the devil. They may go all lengths in ascetic or be-
nevolent piety ; they may ascend even to the verge of heaven in the trans-
ports of voluntary devotion ; but they must not enter into open communica-
tion, and permanent vital union Avith God. This would be joining the enemy.
Thus there is a certain limited circle of improvement in health, knowledge,
morality and pi^ty within which men may act freely, without incurring # the
penalties of rebellion ; but if they step beyond that circle, they find them-
selves engaged in a fierce spiritual war with the '
god of this world.'
Now it is certain that those wlio remain within that circle, however moral
<w religious they may be, are subjects of the devil, '
led captive at his will,'
not indeed in respect to the minor matters of life, (which .we have admitted
may be conducted in a manner adverse to his interests,) but in respect to
THE CAUSE AND THE CURE. 119
tlielr weightiest obligations and interests, viz., those which relate to spiritual
holiness and communication with God. All the morality or religion which
they can have within that circle, can be only 2u preparation for the morahty
and reUgion of the second birth. They are ' in the wicked one'—uneasy
and seditious under his government perhaps, waiting and hoping for power
to escape ; but yet, ' in the wicked one.' Their life is open to the pressure
of his spirit ; their wills are limited by his will. They cannot become sons
of God till they break out of the circle of sin and death into the light of
heaven, and vital union with God. The simple reason of the hard saying,
^ He that committeth sin is of the devil,' is that the spirit of sin is that spirit
of the devil which broods over and encloses unregenerate human nature, and
he that commits sin, thereby demonstrates his union with and subjection to
that spirit, whatever may be his character and state in other respects. ' He
that committeth sin is the servant of sin,' and he that is the servant of sin
is a spiritual member of the devil.
''
y
Redemption commences in an individual when he begins to discover the
hatefulness and amazing strength of the evil power that enthralls him.
While he is content with those partial improvements which are licensed 4
within the devil's dominions, the spirit of sin within him is comparatively
dormant. But when his conscience is awakened by the perfect law of God,
and he begins to try his strength against the outer circle of Satan's spirit,
seeking to break through into actual holiness, sin revives within him and
shows its power. At first it infuses into him a deceptive notion of his self-
sufficiency, by which it leads him to attempt holiness in his own strength,
under the point-blank batteries of the law. He marches up to the deadly
breach, and falls back wounded and discouraged. Again and again he makes
the vain attempt, and at every failure sinks deeper in despair and spiritual
death. At length dire experience kills out his false and proud philosophy
about free-Avill, and he discovers that something stronger than his own spirit
is concerned in his sinfulness, and that something stronger must help him to
holiness. He learns that there is a mighty devil whose spirit envelopes and
works in him—that there is a '
law of sin in his members' emanating from
a power independent of himself, holding captive his vrill with inexorable ob-
stinacy, and invincible strength. He is forced to the conclusion—' It is no
more I that do it, but sin that dwelleth in me.' If the difficulty were in his
own individual will alone, he might have hope. But he finds that a will far
mightier than his holds him in bondage to sin and death. He perceives that
the law, acting upon his own understanding and susceptibilities only, and
not upon the power which enslaves him, can only torment and destroy him,
just as a wheel locked into some mighty machinery and revolving by its pow-
er, would only be corroded and broken by being placed in contact with a
wheel belonging to a separate machine, and revolvuig m an opposite direc-
tion. He finds that he can be saved only by being detached from the spir-
itual power of the devil, and that this can be effected only by a spirit
stronger than the devil. Experience has taught him that his own spirit is no /
match for the destroyer, and thus he is brought to look abroad for help. V
His final cry is
—' wretched man that I am^ who shall deliver me from
130 THE CAUSE AND THE CURE.
the body of this death ? Who shall detach me from the power of the evil one V
Now he is ready to lay hold on salvation by grace.
Here we may see the nature of true repentance ; that repentance which
God gives men, ' that they may recover themselves out of the snare of the
devil, who are taken captive by him at his will.' 2 Tim. 2: 25, 26. It may
be, at the beginning, a conviction of individual sins—a sorrow for personal
deeds done ; but in the end it becomes an abhorrence of the devil, and of
self as spiritually identified with the devil. The spirit of God, Avhich ' pierces
to the di\ading asunder of soul and spirit,' begins to insinuate itself between
the individual and the evil spirit which envelops him. The effect of this in-
fusion is to turn the eye of his conscience on his spiritual state, and to pro-
duce self-loathing. That part of the man which receives and sympathizes
with the spirit of God, imbibes God's hatred of sin, and thus begms to hate
that other part which is in union with the devil, as God hates the devil.
Instead of looking at his works, the man literally ' hates his own life,^ as
being ' part and parcel' of that poisonous spirit which is the fountain of
imiversal sin. So too, godly sorrow, at the beginning, before it has pene-
trated to the heart's core, may manifest itself in attempts to turn from evil
deeds, to good deeds ; but in the end it '
works repentance mito life'—
turning from the spirit of sin to the spirit of the living God. Any repen-
tance which exercises itself merely about works, and stops short of a thorough
purgation of the vital principle, by expelling the virus of Satan and admit-
ting the life of God, is not Bible repentance, and will need to be ' repented of,'
at last. True repentance is effected by the spirit of God ministered through
his word. Faith, or a spiritual apprehension of the existence, power and
hatefulness of the devil on the one hand, and of the existence, resurrection-
energy, and glorious holiness of God in Christ Jesus, . on the other, is its
principal ingredient.
This repentance is the be^ning of universal and eternal victory over the
devil. lie who has fought and won this fight, will conquer in every battle
afterward for ever. Death is dethroned within him, and eternal life is begun.
He has found out the cause, and obtained the cure of all evil.
§ 18. THE ATONEMENT.
It is important that the great act of redemption, fulfilled by the death of
Christ, should not be conceived of as an act of mere benevolence. God's
love toward the world, manifested in that act, was chaste, as well as fervent
prudent, as well as generous. The atonement was made for the ' whole world
it reconciled huynan nature to God ; and it freely offers to all men forgiveness
and salvation. But this is only one half of its object and result. In the
other half (which seems to be generally overlooked,) we behold instead of
the '
goodness,' the '
severity' of God. The atonement was not made for the
devil—it effected no reconciliation of the divine and diabolical natures—it
offers no forgiveness, no salvation to Satan and his angels. On the contrary,
Christ died '
that he might destroy* him that had the power of death, that is
the devil.' Heb. 2: 14. In the very act by which man was redeemed, ' the
prince of this world was judged.' John 12: 31, 32.
When Adam sinned, he threw himself into the arms of the devil. His
posterity, in consequence of this surrender, came into being within the circle
of the devil's spiritual attraction—under a law of gravitation toward sin and
death. Every individual, before Christ, by his own sin repeated and con-
firmed Adam's surrender. Thus the human and diabolical natures were
married and identified—the spirit of man and the devil became one. Thus
'judgment unto condemnation,'—the condenmation of him who was a hope-
less liar and murderer ^ from the beginning,'—passed upon all men. Thus
the devil became 'the prince of tJiis world.'
We must however distinguish between the guilt of the parties to this dread-
ful combination. The devil was the seducer ; man was the victim. The sin
of Adam and his posterity was not original in themselves ; but instigated,
begotten, spiritually infused by their tempter. This distinction enters into
the whole plan of redemption, and determines the measure of the atonement.
God has made- arrangements for saving the victim, but not the seducer. The
devil is destroyed, not redeemed, by the act that sets his captives free.
These arrangements are fully justified by the assumption (on the basis of
which they are obviously made,) that the devil is a hopeless sinner, and man
is not. We leave it with those who believe the devil to be a part of God's
creation, to verify this assumption as they may. We believe the devil is a
hopeless sinner, because he is an uncreated being—one whose sin never had a
beginning, and therefore never will have an end.
However this may be, if it is true that under the apostacy, man and the
* The word translated destroy in this passage, primarily means, to render i7iactive, idle,
useless. (See Robinson, Schreveiius, &c.) It does not mean to annihilate. This may
be seen by an example. In the parable of the fig- tree (Luke 13: 7) the master of tho
vineyard says; '
Cut it down, why cumbereth it the ground?' The original word here
rendered cumbereth, is the same as that rendered destroy in Heb. 2: 14. The man certainly
does not mean that the fig tree annihilates the ground, but that it renders it useless. In
fact the word destroy is often used in the same way, i. e. to signify, not annihilation,
but termination of power, activity, «fec. Napoleon was destroyed at Waterloo, though he
existed aflerward. So Christ's death will bring to nought the devil's kingdom.
15
123 # TIIE ATONEMENT.
devil are one, and that the devil is a hopeless sinner, then it is manifest that
the first step of redemption must be a separation of man from the deviL
This indeed is not the whole, or even the principal work necessary in the case.
It is only the negative part of salvation. The positive is union with God.
But the divorce of the first husband is as essential as the marriage to the
second, and must go before it. The evil spirit must first be exorcised, and
then the good spirit may take its place.
In examining the nature of the atonement, then, our first inquiry is—How
did the death of Jesus Christ destroy the devil ?
' When a strong man armed keepeth his palace, his goods are in peace :
but when a stronger than he shall come upon him, and overcome him, he
taketh from him all his armor wherein he trusted, and divideth his spoils.'
Luke 11: 21, 22. Jesus Christ uttered this saying Avith direct reference to
his warfare with Satan. The principle which it contains may guide us to an.
answer to the above question.
In the first place it was necessary, in order to the accomplishment of the
victory by which man is redeemed, that Jesus Christ should be stronger than
the devil—^i. e. that he should be, as he was, the uncreated Son of God.
See p. 103, paragraph (3.)
In the next place it was necessary that Jesus Christ should 'come iqwn^
the strong man who kept the world as his palace, and held the souls of men
as his goods. He therefore took upon him human nature. Thus the strength
of the Godhead was brought into immediate contact with the strength of the
devil, in the very field which was to be won.
But human nature, in the mere corruption of the original fall, was not the'
field in which sm manifested its full strength. '
The law entered that the
ofiense might abound.' It may be truly said that when God placed man un-
der the law, human nature suffered a second fail. In the Jewish nation
durmg its legal dispensation, sin w^as ripened—the energies of Satan were
concentrated—and the union of the human and diabolical natures was as far
as possible perfected. Christ, therefore, took upon him the seed of Abra-
ham—' was made under the law, that he might redeem thenn^hat were under
the law.' The energy of the Godhead entered human nature, at the point
where Satan's seat and strength was.
In due time a desperate conflict commenced between the divine nature an
the one hand, and the spirit of the devil on the other, with human nature
for the battle-field. "We may notice two critical points in the |fogress of this
conflict, previous to the death-struggle, in which it was finally decided. At
the commencement of Christ's ministry, Satan made a personal attempt to
seduce him into sin. After plying him with temptations similar to those by
which Adam fell, and others more subtle and mighty, with every advantage
that could give them force, the tempter was forced to quit the field, bafl^led
and dismayed. Christ followed up this victory by a proclamation of the
gospel, and an outpouring of the spirit of life. In defiance of the power of
death which had hitherto reigned over human nature, he at once began to
heal all manner of diseases and cast out devils, by his word. Matt. 4: 24,
At a later period, after he had evinced his own personal triumph, he com-
THE ATONEMENT. 123
missioned seventy disciples to go abroad through the land, with the same vic-
torious power. They returned ' saying, Lord, even the devils are subject
unto us through thy name. And he said unto them, I beheld Satan as lightr
ning fall from heaven.'^ Luke 10: 1, 18. Here, as in the former action^
the defeat of the devil stands in immediate conjunction with the going forth
of the spirit of life. By these tokens we may discern the nature of the in-
visible conflict which was in progress. As the devil withdrew from human,
nature, God entered. And thus, we shall see, wdien Satan was decisively
and forever overthrown, in the battle of the cross, God was fully reconciled
to human nature, and poured forth the spirit of life upon all flesh.
We have said that it was necessary that Christ should become a man, that
he might redeem men ; and that he should be made under the law, that he
might redeem them that were under the law. We now advance a step fur-
ther. It iva§ necessary that he should die, that he might redeem the dead.
The same spiritual law that required his incarnation, and his subjection to
Judaism, also required his submission to death. Human nature, viewed as
a whole, perpetually existing, was principally in the invisible world, beyond
the vail. The living generation w^as only the surface of mankind—as it
were, the visible bark of a tree,—-whose sap and heart were in the regions
of death. In that same inner world, the devil had his sanctuary, ' He that
had the power of death,' was in a special sense ' the lord of the dead.' The
living were linked to him by sin; but the dead were his by the double chain
of sin and death. If Jesus Christ, then, would redeem human nature as a
whole,—if he would encounter and destroy the devil in his sanctuary,—he
must descend from the surface into the heart of the tree ; he must follow
human nature, Avhere Satan had dragged it, into the '
lower parts of the
earth.' '
To this end Christ both died and rose and revived, that he might
l)e Lord both of the deg,d and the living.' Rom. 14: 9.
It must not be supposed, however, that Christ's death was for the benefit
only of the dead. It was necessary to the redemption of the living, for two
reasons : first, because the living were spiritually connected with the dead,
and under the power of inevitable gravitation toward death ; and secondly,
because the destruction of the devil was necessary to the redemption of all.
The death of Christ destroyed the cause of death, for the living as w^ell as
for the dead.
We are ik)w prepared, at least in part, to answer the question—How did
the death of Christ destroy the devil ? It destroyed him by admitting the
eternal life of the Son of God into immediate contact with the seat of his life.
It unbarred the last and darkest recess of the strong man's palace,—and
there the stronger man overcame and bound him.
The death of Christ was evidently a spiritual baptism into the devil, of
which the corporeal crucifixion was only an index and consummation. A
day, at least, before his crucifixion, he said to the people, 'Noio is my soul
troubled ; and what shall I say ? Father, save me from this hour : but for
this cause came I unto this hour. * * * ^^^^ {g iji^ judgment of tM$
tvorld: nqiv shall the prince of this ivorld he cast out.'' John 12: 27, 31.
He was then entering the cloud of death. A few hours later, when he was
124 THE ATONEMENT. ^
alone with his disciples, his ' soul was sorrowful even unto death.'' The
magnetism of the devil was upon him—as was indicated by the drowsiness
of the disciples, as well as by his own bloody agon^jr*" With a desperate pur-
pose of either corrupting or destroying him, Satan poured himself out upon
the Son of God, thus interposing his own black spirit between the sufferer
and his Father, and causing him to drink of the cup of that fury, which was
drawn forth from God, not by his sin, but by the sin of Satan.
This Pentecost of the devil, be it remembered, took place on Thursday,
the day before the crucifixion. Thus Christ's prediction that he should be
'
in the heart of the earth three days and three nights,^ (Matt. 12: 40,) was
fulfilled. Counting from the crucifixion, his death continued only two nights
and a part of three days. Counting from the time of his baptism into the
devil, whose sanctuary was the '
heart of the earth,' he died three days and
three nights before his resurrection.
In that baptism the devil and the Son of God met face to face—their re-
spective strength was tried to the uttermost—and the devil was overcome
and cast out. Thus Christ became what the devil had been before, the
' prince of this world'—the Lord of the living and the dead.
That the destruction of the devil was a part of the atonement, and had an
important agency in reconciling the world to God, maybe seen by reference
to several interesting illustrations in the Old Testament.
I. The following account of the destruction of Zimri and Cozbi by Phin-
ehas, presents a pertinent example of the Bible idea of atonement
" Israel abode in Shittim, and the people began to commit whoredom with the
daughters of Moab. And they called the people unto the sacrifices of their gods :
and the people did eat, and bowed down to their gods. And Israel joined himself
unto Caal-peor : and the anger of the Lord was kindled against Israel. And the
Lord said unto Moses, Take all the heads of the people, and hang them up before
the Lord against the sun, that thu fierce anger of the Lord may be turned away
from Israel. And Moses said unto the judges of Israel, Slay ye every one his
men that were joined unto Baal-peor. And, behold, one of the children of Israel
came, and brought unto his brethren a Midianitish woman, in the sight of Moses,
and in the sight of all the congregation of the children of Israel, who were weep,
ing before the door of the tabernacle of the congregation. And when Phinehas
the son of Eleazar the son of Aaron the priest, saw it, he rose up from among
the congregation, and took a javelin in his hand: and he went after the man of
Israel into the tent, and thrust both of them through, the man of Israel, and the
woman through her belly. So the plague was stayed from the children of Israel.
And those that died in the plague were twenty and four thousand. And the Lord
spake unto Moses, saying, Phinehas the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron the
ipiiGfit, hath turned my wrath away fi'om the children of Israel, Cwhile he was
zealous for my sake among them,) that I consumed not the children of Israel in
my jealousy. Wherefore say. Behold, I give unto him my covenant of peace :
and he shall have it, and his seed after him, even the covenant of an everlasting
priesthood ; because he was zealous for his God, and made an atonement for the
children of Israel. Now the name of the Israelite that was slain, even that was
slain with the Midianitish woman, wrs Zimri, the son of Salu, a prince of a chief
house among the Simeonites. And the name of the Midianitish woman that was
slain was Cozbi, the daughter of Zur : he was head over a people, and of a chief
house in Midian." Numb. 25: 1—15.
THE ATONEMENT. 125
It is obvious that the atoning value of this transaction—that which recon-
ciled the congregation of Israel to God,—was the righteousness of Phinehas,
displayed in the destruction of Zimri and Cozbi. God evidently regarded
the pubhc exhibition of holy zeal on the part of Phinehas, as a redeeming
leaven, which w^ould diffuse its influence through the congregation ; while the
signal vengeance that fell on Zimri and Cozbi was fitted to destroy the spir-
itual cause, and stay the progress, of the moral infection which had drawn
wrath upon the congregation. There was good reason, therefore, why that
wrath should be withdrawn. The atonement had virtually made an end of
the evil against which it was directed. But it must be noticed that \kQ penal
suffering in this case was inflicted not on the righteous person who made the
atonement, but on real offenders and seducers. Zimri and Cozbi were the
vicarious victims who received the avenging stroke, instead of the whole
congregation. Phinehas was indeed the actor of what may be called a vica-
rious righteousness. His zeal was placed to the account of the people, be-
cause it necessarily diffused moral health among them. But he did not make
the atonement by suffering the punishment himself, which was due to the
sin of Israel, but by inflicting it on those who were undoubtedly the leaders
in that sin. In all this we have a miniature of the atonement made by Jesus
Christ. By a glorious act of righteousness he destroyed the devil, the great
seducer of the world. Thus the cause of the sin of the world was put away,
and the leaven of righteousness introduced ; so that God could safely with-
draw his wrath and proclaim forgiveness to man. But in this atonement, as
in the other, the penal suffering due to sin was inflicted where it was de-
served, not on the innocent champion of righteousness, but on the great head
and representative of all sin. Christ did indeed suffer in the act by which
he destroyed the devil and redeemed the worid, but his suffering was not
penal. The curse to which he submitted, considered as punishment, was
directed not against him, but against the devil ; and he submitted to it, not
as a criminal, but as an executioner. He died, '
that through death he
might destroy him that had the powder of death.' If we suppose it necessary
that Phinehas should have died himself, in the act by which he slew" Zimri
and Cozbi, we make the case a complete miniature of the great atonement.
II. In the folloAving account of the scape-goat, we have another illustra-
tion of the destruction of the devil
"Aaron shall take two kids of the goats for a sin.oftering, . , . and he shall
cast lots upon the goats, one lot for the Lord, and one lot for the scape-goat.
And Aaron shall bring the goat on which the Lord's lot fell, and offer him for a
sin-offering. But the goat on which the lot fell to be the scape-goat, shall be
presented alive before the Lord, to make an atonement with him, and to let him
go for a scape-goat into the wilderness Then shall he kill the goat
of the sin-offering that is for the people, and bring his blood within the vail, and
sprinkle it upon the mercy-seat, and before the mercy-seat ; and he shall make
an atonement for the holy place. . . . And when he hath made an end of recon.
oiling the holy place, and the tabernacle of the congregation, and the altar, he
shall bring the live goat : and Aaron shall lay both his hands upon the head of
the live goat, and confess over him all the iniquities of the children of Israel, and
all their transgressions in all their sins, putting them upon the head of the goat,
1^6 THE ATONEMENT.
and shall send him away by the hand of a fit man into the wilderness : and t1ie
goat shall bear upon him all their iniquities to a land not inhabited : and he shaft
let go the goat in the wilderness And he that let go the goat for the
scape-goat shall wash his clothes, and bathe his flesh in water, and afterward
come into the camp," Lev. 16: 5—26.
What does the scape-goat represent ? The popular commentators, such
as Scott and Clarke, say without hesitation, it represents Christ, bearing
away our sins into the land of forgetfulness. But many objections arise
against this theory. In the first place, the goat on which the Lord's- lot fell^
certaiiily typified Christ ; and the several offices and destinations of the two
are represented as so entirely diverse, that we caimot suppose that both typify
the same person. One of them is for the Lord ; the other is for the wilder-
ness. One is a propitiatory offering, whose blood sanctifies the tabernacle-;
the other is loaded with sins, and sent away as a polluted and detestable
object. And then how revolting and false is the idea that Christ was sent
into the wilderness of destruction with the sins of the world upon him, and
left there. If the scape-goat had been sent away with the sins of the people^
and then brought back for a holy offering to the Lord, it might have repre-
sented Christ in his death and resurrection. But it was sent away never to
return ;—and Jewish writers tell us it was left on the brow of a precipice^,
that it might fall and perish. Moreover, the man by whom it w^as sent away,
was regarded as defiled by it.
Azazel is the Hebrew word translated scape-goat. Gesenius says : "By
this name I suppose is to be understood originally some idol, that was ap-
peased with sacrifices ; but afterward, as the names of idols were often
transferred to demons, it seems to denote an evil demon dwelling in the desert
"and to be placated with victims. The name Azazel is also used by the Arabs
for an evil demon. The ecclesiastical fathers have referred the word to the
.goat itself, translating it scape-goat^ although obviously in Lev. 16: 8, the
antithesis lies between 'for Azazel^^
and '/or the Lord.^ " (See Ges. Lexi-
<Jon, p. 751.) This view of the meaning of the word (which certainly is
plausible) is altogether adverse to the idea that Christ is represented by the
scape-goat. We should much prefer to regard Christ as the Lord's victim,
and Judas as the devil's.
The following curious story is taken from Calmet's Dictionary, The writer
is Mr. Bruce, an eastern traveler
"We found that, upon some discussion, the garrison and townsmen had been
fighting for several days, in which disorders the greatest part of the ammunition
in the town had been expended ; but it had since been agreed on by the old men
*of both parties, that nobody had been to blame on either side, but the whole
wrong was the work of a camel. A camel, therefore, was seized, and brought
without the town, and there a number on both sides having met, they upbraided
the camel with every thing that had been either said or done. The camel had
killed men ; he had threatened to set the town on fire ; the camel had threatened
to burn the aga's house and the castle ; he had cursed the grand seignior, and
the sheriff of Mecca ;
(the sovereigns of the two parties ;) and, the only thing
the poor animal was interested in, he had threatened to destroy the wheat that
was going to Mecca. After spending a great part of the afternoon in upbraid-
THE ATONEMENT. 12T
ing the camel, whose measure of iniquity, it seems, was nearly full, each man
thrust him through with a lance, devoting him, diis manibus et diris, by a kind
of prayer, and with a thousand curses upon his head. After which every man
retired, fully satisfied as to the wrongs he had received from the camel ! The
reader will easily observe in this some traces of the Azazel, or scape-goat of the
Jews, which was turned out into the wilderness loaded with the sins of the peo-
ple. Lev. 16: 21."
If this was a ceremony of kindred nature to that of the scape-goat offering,
(as Robinson and Bruce both seem to suppose,) it is another evidence that
the common opinion that Christ is the scape-goat, is altogether inadmissible.
How horrible the thought that men—and much more that God—should deal
with Christ, as those foolish barbarians dealt with the poor camel ! And yet
we can make nothins; else of the orthodox atonement. Such treatment how-
ever, applied to the devil, would be in accordance with truth and justice.
The sins of all men, when traced to their source, are actually '
the works of
the deyir w^hich Christ was manifested to destroy. .^,
These considerations utterly preclude the idea that Christ is the antitype
of the scape-goat, and point us directly to that other victim who was destroyed
forever when Christ died. The w^hole ceremony was obviously designed to
shadow forth what—as we have seen—the New Testament plainly teaches,
that in the atonement, at the same time that Christ offered himself an accept-
able sacrifice to God, the devil, as the father and representative of all sin,
was devoted to eternal destruction. ^
This view enables us to understand how the sins of the Avorld are disposed
of. Instead of being imputed by a sort of legal fiction to Christ, to whom
they do not belong, they are fairly laid upon the head of the devil to whom
they do belong. '
The old serpent that deceivetli the whole world' is legiti-
mately made the scape-goat of the whole w^orld. A king, in dealing with a
revolted province, may properly make a distinction between the guilt of the •'
common people, and that of the leading instigators of the rebellion. When
he has captured the ringleader and made a public example of him, he may
safely forgive the rest '
not imputing their trespasses unto them,' but to
their seducer. It is necessary that the people should become sensible of the
evil of the rebellion, and that they should confess and renounce it, imputing
their delusion to its true author, and consenting to his execution. So the
priest w^as required to put his hands on the head of the scape-goat, and con-
fess the sins of the people over him. And so repentance and confession,
with an approval of the destruction of Satan as the instigator of the sins of
the world, is necessary, in order that men may avail themselves of the atone-
ment. ' God was in Christ, reconciKng the world unto himself, not imputing
their trespasses unto them'—because Christ by his death destroyed the cause
of their trespasses, and opened the w^ay for men by repentance and faith to
separate themselves from that cause, and join themselves to a nucleus of
righteousness.
^
With these views, we can see how God can '
be just and the justifier of
him that bcHeveth ;' —^how the law, which immutably joins death to sin, can
be faithfully carried into execution, and yet man be saved. The penalty of
128 THE ATONEMENT.
all sin is actually inflicted on the devil, who is actually the author of it.
Here is no evasion—no substitution of an innocent person for the offender.
The law has its course. Man is saved, not because God abrogates the law
or evades it by a fiction, but because he rightfully imputes the sins of which
men are the instruments, to the devil, as their real author.
But we must bear in mind that the sins which can thus be transferred to
the scape-goat, are human, not diabolical sins. They are the sins of the
seduced—not of the seducer. It is Christ's office to '
have compassion on
those that are ignorant and out of the way^ (Heb. 5: 2,) not on wilful
transgressors. His prayer on the cross was—' Father, forgive them, for they
know not what they do.'' Luke 23: 34. Paul was forgiven because he per-
secuted the church '
ignorantly^ in uyihelief.'' 1 Tim. 1: 13. '
If we sin
wilfully after that we have received the knowledge of the truth, there remain-
eth no more sacrifice for sin.' Heb. 10: 26. ' If any man see his brother
sin a sin which is not unto death, he shall ask, and he shall give him life for
them that sin not unto death. There is a sin unto death. I do not say that
he shall pray for it. All unrighteousness is sin. And there is a sin not unto
death.^ 1 John 5: 16, 17. The broad difference, as we have intimated be-
fore, between sins that are properly diabofical, and those that are properly
human, lies in the fact that the latter are not original in the transgressor, but
are occasioned by external influences working on ignorance ; while the former
are the legitimate products of the transgressor's own disposition, and are
committed in defiance of opposing knowledge. Diabolical sins, by their
very nature are not transferable. They who commit them are intrinsically
incorporated with the devil, and instead of being saved by the atonement,
are destroyed, with the devil.
If any cite as objections to our theory in regard, to the object of Christ's
death, such passages as these :
'
Christ bare our sins m his own body on the
tree,' ' gave himself for us,' '
died for us,' &c., we reply—He certainly did
not die in the same sense as we should have died, had there been no atone-
ment—that is eternally. He died for us in this sense, viz : he was baptized
into the spirit of sin and death, and suffered temporarily the curse which
rested on that spirit, that he might overcome and destroy it, and that he
might lay hold on and redeem those that were under it. If he had not died,
we must have been destroyed with the devil. His death, therefore, was a
substitute for ours. But it was not as ours would have been, Vi punishment.
Gen. Putnam's sufferings in his descent into the cavern to kill the wolf, may
be viewed as a forcible, though a homely, illustration of the nature and ob-
ject of Christ's sufferings. That notable passage in the 63d chapter of Isaiah,
where Christ's vicarious sufferings are fully described, is quoted in Matthew
8: 17 in a way which plainly shows that the evangelist understood it in a
spiritual and not in a legal sense. '
When the even was come, they brought
unto him many that were possessed with devils : and he cast out the spirits
with his word, and healed all that were sick : that it might be fulfilled which
was spoken by Esaias the prophet, saying. Himself took our infirmities and
hare our sicknesses.^ Here it is evident that Christ suffered in the stead of
those whom he healed. He entered into a spiritual partnership with them,
CROSS OP CHRIST. 129
by which he gave them his health and took their sickness. But this suffering
certainly was not penal. It was necessary, not because the law required it,
but because, without it, he could not enter into the sufferers and cast the
devil out. By this hint of the evangelist we may discern the true nature and
object of all the vicarious sufferings of Christ,
The sum of what we have said on the negative part of the atonement, is
this : Jesus Christ, by his death, entered into the vitals of the devil, and
overcame him. He thus destroyed the central cause of sin. The effect of
this act on them that believe, is to release them from the power of sin ; and
on them that believe not, to consign them with the devil to destruction.
The 2^ositive part of the atonement, i. e. the a^one-ment, or reconciliation
and spiritual union of God and man, effected by the sacrifice of Christ, will
be brought to view in several succeeding articles. «
§ 19. THE CROSS OF CHRIST.
* The flesh lusieth against the spirit and the spirit against the flesh, and
these are contrary the one to the other.' When the flesh prevails over the
spirit, as in the experience described in Rom. T: 7—25, the spirit is in the
bonds of death. When the spirit prevails over the flesh, as in the experience
described in Rom. 8, the flesh is crucified. The two powers are at deadly
enmity with each other, and whichever is strongest kills the other.
In Christ the spirit prevailed over the flesh, from the beginning. His life
in this world was a series of conflicts between the spirit and the flesh, (or, in
another point of view, between God and the devil,) in which the spirit con-
stantly overcame the flesh. As the struggle proceeded, his spirit waxed
stronger and stronger. In this way he was educated, so to speak, for his
office, and became perfect as a champion of the tempted. ' Though he were
a son, yet learned he obedience by the things which he suffered ; and being
made perfect, he became the author of eternal salvation to all them that
obey him.'
His last conflict in the garden and on the cross, was more severe and more
decisive than any which preceded it ; but it was not different in kind from
the struggles in which he had been engaged from his birth. The powers of
good and evil—the spirit with God for its supporter on the one side, and the
flesh with the devil for its supporter on the other—which had been warring
within him from the beginning, at last came to a desperate issue. The last
great act of obedience which God required of his spirit, and which the flesh,
instigated by Satan, struggled furiously to frustrate, was submission to death.
The spirit conquered. Hell could not turn the Son of God aside from his
appointed pathway. '
Lo I come to do thy will, God,* was the word of his
spirit, as he laid himself upon the altar.
In that final sacrifice the flesh was destroyed, and the devil, whose all was
16
180 CROSS OF CHKIST.
staked on the trial, lost his kingdom. Christ was perfected ; and thencefortli
could bring to bear on the devil, in all the conflicts of his followers, a spirit
on which temptation had done its worst, and which was thus triumphantly
proved immutable in righteousness.
With this vicw^ of Christ's work, we perceive that his hteral death on the
cross was not the whole of his crucifixion, but its consummation. The true
^C7'oss of Chrisf was the subjugation of his flesh by his spirit, and that was
a process which extended through liis whole life, though its most notable act
and its termination took place on Calvary. His spirit was mortifying his flesh
in obedience to the will of God, and he was therefore '
on the cross' spirit-
ually, as realljr when he was tempted in the wilderness, and Avhen he was la-
boring in Judea, as when he hung between heaven and earth. Indeed he
used language referring^o death by crucifixion, to express the subjugation of
the flesh, long before he was actually crucified. See Luke 9: 28, 14: 27.
We have said that his literal death was the consv7nnmtio7i of his entire
crucifixion; but it was something more. It presented to the senses a mcst
appropriate syml)ol—a physical miniatvrc—of the whole. The ]aialleliFm
between the exhibition on Calvary, and the life-long act cf Christ's crucifix-
ion, may be stated thus: As the wooden cross on which he suflered Tsas to
his body, so was his spiritual nature to his carnal nature, during his vlcle
life in the flesh. The prominent idea of a literal crucifixion, is that of a fiim,
strong, upright substance holding with unyielding rigor a living body, in
hopeless impotence and mortal agony, till death closes the scene. This is a
true figiu'e of the antagonism between Christ's spirit and flesh. His spiritual
nature, firmly rooted in God, stood up in the strength and rigor of everlast-
ing righteousness, and held his carnal nature, impotent and dying, till it was
dead. His spirit was the cross on which his fle^h hung, not merely six hours,
but more than thirty years. In the scene on Calvary, the self-sacrifice which
had been acted within him from the first, came out before the eyes of men,
and exhibited itself in a visible and awfully impressive symbol. • The ajos-
tles, instead of attempting to force into the minds of their readers by meta-
physical discourses, the mysteries of the interior work, pointed to the sjmbol.
Their theme was 'Christ crucified^—'the crQs.s of Chrht.^ But whoever
conceives of nothing but a physical or legal transaction as embodied in these
words, sees opjy the' surface of the great spiritual idea which lies beneath
them. Abundant evidence may be found in the writings of the apostles that
they saw in the '
cross of Christ' the conflict and victory which we have de-
Bcribed, and that it was in their minds the seed of spiritual victory for all
believers. As the servants of the Holy Ghost, whose ofiice it is to lead minds
from external signs to interior truth, they used the visible crucifixion as the
entering-point of the vast idea which it shadowed forth.
Probably the most prominent thought in many minds, in relation to the
death of Clmst, is that it was a cruel deed perpetrated by wicked men. At
the hazard of startling those whose conceptions are thus limited, we aver,
that in the truest, sense Christ cnicified himself^ and that the act was a glo-
rious manifestation of God's righteousness. The Romans, the Jews, and the
devil, were indeed the guilty instruments of the sacrifice ; but the power
CIIOSS OF CHRIST. 131
"wMch ordained and directed it, was the mil of the Father and the Son.
Christ said expressly, '' No man taketh my life from me ; I lay it down of
myself.' He steadfastly set his face to go up to Jerusalem, with the avowed
expectation and purpose of dying on the cross. Twelve legions of angels
were at his command ; but he declined a rescue.
The substantial deed which was done under the forms of the ci-ucifixion-
scene, was the act of the sufferer ; and that act was the destruction of the
will of his flesh by the will of his spirit. His spiritual nature was not the
crucified, but the crucifier. '
He was put to death in the flesh, but quickened
in the spirit ;' and it was the quickening of his spirit that made him strong
enough to lay and hold his flesh on thp altar of death. That same quicken-
ing had made him conqueror in all the battles of his previous life. It was
the holy power of \hQ divine nature—the righteousness of God. While the
wooden cross held his body, his spiritual will held his carnal will in the
agonies of death ; and the unconquerable strength of the righteousness of
God was manifested to the uttermost.
That same quickening power which carried him triumphantly through the
death-battle, went with him into the grave, and so charged his spirit with
ascending life that Hades could not hold him. By its strength, he returned
from the dead, took possession of that same body which had been the vantage-
ground of the devil, changed it into a spiritual body, and ' ascended far
above all heavens.'
We are apt to separate the resurrection of Christ from his death, and to
think of the one as the reverse of the other. But in thinking thus, we are
looking at his body, rather than at his spirit, in which the essence of the
whole transaction lay. In truth the resurrection-power was the high priest
of the sacriiice on Calvary, as well as the conqueror of Hades. 'Through
the eternal Spirit he oflkced himself without spot unto God,' and through the
eternal Spirit he arose from the grave to the highest heaven. His resurrec-
tion was but the continuation and complete victory of that same holy energy
which" nailed his flesh to the cross, and which had trodden the wine-press of
self-sacrifice in all his previous life. The two elements concerned in his vic-
tory 07er the devil, were fife in the spirit, and death in the flesh. To the
external senses the resurrection is the most fitting representative of the life ;
and the crucifixion, of the death. But both elements were present in the
crucifixion ; and life, though less visible than its antagonist, was actually the
principal power.
Hence Paul, though the point at which he constantly aimed, was to plant
the en3rg7 of the resnrrection in believers, as the seed of God's righteous-
ness, gathered up his whole gospel into one idea Hhe cross of Christ.^ '
I
de remained,' says he, '
to know nothing among you, save Jesus Christ and
him crucified.' 1 Cor. 2: 2. It is clear that his conception of '
Christ cru-
cified' was not merely or principally that of a suiferer, but of a conqueror.
His eye was on the mighty energy of righteousness that crucified the flesh,
more than oinifce flesh which was crucified. Accordingly he says—' The
preaching of the cross . . . unto us which are saved is the poiper of Grod,
, . . We preach Christ crucified, . . . the power of (^oc? and 3ie wisdom
132 BEEAD OF LIFE.
of God.' ICor. 1: 18—24. He set forth tlie dying scene, as an exhibition
of the power of God's righteousness ; and he expected that men, in receiving
' Christ crucified,' would appropriate the victorious hfe of his spirit, as well
as the death of his flesh.
The effect which Paul intended to produce in others by preaching the
cross, was undoubtedly the same that was produced in himself. He indicates
distinctly in the two following passages, the power of the cross as exhibited
in his own experience. 1. ' God for])id that I should glory, save in the cross
of our Lord Jesus Christ, hy which the world is crucified unto me, and I
unto the ivorldJ' Gal. 6: 14. Here is the death of the flesh. 2. '
I am
crucified with Christ ; nevertheless Hive ; yet not i, hut Christ liveth inme^
Gal. 2: 19. Here is the life of the spirit. In the apostle's mind the idea
of ' Christ crucified,' evidently infolded the idea of Christ living and trium-
phant over sin and death.
§ 20. THE BREAD OF LIFE.
" Verily, verily, I say unto you, he that believeth on me hath everlasting life,
I am that bread of life. Your fathers did eat manna in the wilderness, and are
dead. This is the bread which cometh down from heaven, that a man may eat
thereof, and not die. I am the living bread which came down from heaven. If
any man eat of this bread, he shall live forever : and the bread that I will give
is my flesh, which I will give for the life of the world. The Jews therefore
strove among themselvcfc', saying. How can this man give us his flesh to eat?
Then said Jesus unto them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, except ye eat the flesh
of the Son of man, and drink his blood, ye have no life in you. Whoso eateth
my flesh, and drinketh my blood, hath eternal life ; and I will raise him up at
the last day. For my flesh is meat indeed, and my blood is drink indeed. He
that eateth my flesh, and drinketh my blood, dwelleth in me, and I in him. A»
the living Father hath sent me, and I live by the Father ; so he that eateth me^
even he shall live by me. This is that bread which came down from heaven ;
not as your fathers did eat manna, and are dead : he that eateth of this bread
shall live for ever." John 6: 47—58.
This is one of the most interesting passages in the -whole Bible, and ought
to be well understood by every disciple of the gospel.
Roman Catholics, Puseyites, and in general all the grosser formalists refer
it to the Lord's Supper, thinking that they eat the flesh and drhik the blood
of Christ, and secure to themselves the promised life, by partaking of bread
and wine duly consecrated by a legitimate priest. But this theory is ren-
dered altogether incredible by the fact that the Lord's. Supper was not insti-
tuted at the time when this discourse was uttered. In the natural order of
Christ's instruction, the 6th of John, instead of being a commentary on the
institution of the eucharist, is the substantial independent Hfct, of which
that institution is an emblematical illustration.
Another class of commentators, who have the credit of more spiritual
BREAD OF LIFE. 133
views, (sucli as Scofct, Clarke, &c.,) make Clirist's death on the cross the
main subject of reforenca m this passage. Their doctrine is that the '
flesh
and blood' of Christ here spoken of, so far as these words refer to any actual
substance, mean the physical flesh and blood which suffered on Calvary ; and
that the thing to be received by believers is not really this flesh and blood,
but the atonement made by it, which is to be eaten and drunk by appropri-
ating faith. But this theory is nearly as incongruous and barren as that of
the formalists. Both make a material object and a physical transaction the
medium of eternal life ; for the literal flesh and blood of Christ's material body
and the visible transaction of the cross, as really belonged to the physical
world, as does the bread and wine of the eucharist and the act of eating and
drinking it. The Catholic theory makes the eating and drinking literal, and
mystifies the flesh and blood by a pretended transubstantiation of the el-
ements ; and the Protestant theory makes the flesh and blood literal, and
mystifies the eating and drinking, by converting it into an act of meditation.
Both make Christ's discourse in the 6th of John an appendage to transac-
tions that were future and unknown when it was uttered, aud therefore un-
inteUigible by itself. We believe, and propose to show that it carries its own
explication, and relates to a spiritual transaction, of which both the eucha-
rist and crucifixion are but exponents.
First we will endeavor to determine what is meant by the '
flesh and blood'
of Christ, which gives eternal life.
Christ says '
I am the bread of life ;' (ver. 35, 48 ;)
*
I am the living
bread ; ... the bread that I will give is my flesh,' &c. (Yer. 51.) It is
himself therefore that he refers to, when he speaks of giving his flesh and
blood for food to them that believe on him. But his nature while in the world
was twofold. As to the interior of his being he was the Son of God that
existed from eternity with the Father ; and at the same time he had a ma-
terial body which was born of a woman. Which of these parts of himself
does he refer to in calling himself the bread of life ? Most clearly the for-
mer. He says expressly—' The bread of God is he which cometii down
FROM HEAVEN ;'
(ver. 33 ;) and this declaration is repeated subsequently
not less than four times. See ver. 38, 50, 51, 58. Now as Christ's material
body certainly did not come down from heaven ; and as the '
bread' or
' flesh and blood' which he offers men as the medium of eternal life, certainly
did come down from heaven, it is manifest that these latter terms relate io
his interior pre-existent nature. The idea that he was speaking of himself
as a man, and of his visible flesh and blood, was utterly excluded by the
repeated definition which he gave of the terms he used. Yet some of his
hearers could not or would not understand him. '
The Jews murmured at
him, because he said, I am the bread which came down from heaven. And
they said, Is not this Jesus, the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we
know ? How is it then that he saith, I.came down from heaven.' Yer. 41, 42*
They recognized only that part of his nature which originated in this worid,
and were therefore obliged to understand him as speaking of his hteral flesh
and blood. Of course they wondered at what he said about coming down
from heaven, and '
stroye among themselves, saying, How can tliis man
134 BREAD OF LIFE.
give US his flesh to eat?' Ver. 52. But it was not his fault that they did
not perceive that he had an internal divhie nature, and that this was the
subject of his discourse.
The carnal theories of the Catholics and Protestants above noticed, are
founded on this very mistake of the Jews. Having no clear conceptions of
the existence and communicabihty of the spiritual flesh and blood of the Son
of God, they strive among themselves in their secret thoughts, saying, 'How
can this man give us his flesh to eat V and the only answer which they can
find, is, that he gives us his flesh and blood (as one party says) by a sort of
mystical proxy in the bread and wine of the eucharist ; or (as the other
party says) by presenting his once cmcified flesh and blood to our medita-
tions.
In addition to the evidence concermng the nature of the life-giving flesh
and blood of Christ implied in his repeated declaration that it came down
from heaven, we have at the conclusion of his discourGe a very exphcit an-
nouncement that it was not his material body, but his spiritual nature.
' Many of his disciples, when they heard [what he said about eating his flesh
and drinking his blood,] said, this is an hard saying ; who can hear it ?
When Jesus knew in himself that his disciples murmured at it, he said unto
them. Doth this offend you ? What if ye shall sjm the Son of man
ASCEND UP WHERE HE WAS BEFORE?' Vcr. 60, 62. ^ Their eye was on his
humanity ; but he reminded them of his pre-existence. It is as if he had
said—' I am not speaking of that part of my nature which originated in this
world ; but of that in which I descended from heaven, and in which I shall
ascend there again.' Then he adds—' it is the spirit that quickeneth ;
THE flesh profiteth NOTHING.' Vcr. 63. He had been proposing to them
his flesh and blood as the bread of heaven—that by which they were to be
quickened to eternal life. They thought of nothing but his material flesh
and blood, and could not see how that should quicken them. Therefore,
that he might leave them no excuse for converting what he had said into an
offending absurdity, he said to them plainly—' The quickening flesh and
blood of which I speak is spiritual : the [literal] flesh profiteth nothing ; that
is not the bread, which, if a man eat, he shall live forever.' Yet the difii-
culty of apprehending his pre-existence, and of conceiving how he could give
men his spiritual flesh and blood for food, blinded the eyes of those who
murmured; and 'from that time many of his disciples went back, and
walked no more with him.' Ver. QQ.
The proper life-giving body of Christ, then, is a spiritual substance of
which his material body Avas but the envelope. In order to ascertain the
distinctive characteristics of the two elements of that substance, we must
consider the distinction between flesh and blood in the natural body. Blood,
in the ordinary sense, is db fluid, and flesh is the solid which contains it.
Blood, says the scripture, '-is the Ufe.^ Flesh is the fo7i7i in which life
subsists. Now the question is—are celestial beings composed of two elements
corresponding to flesh and blood, as thus defined ? We answer,—man cer-
tainly has within his visible body a soul and a spirit ; and in a disembodied
state his soul is properly called a spiritual body ; it is a concrete substance ;
BREAD OF LIFE. 135
it has in all respects the form of the natural body ; it corresponds therefore
to flesh. And the spirit is a fluid substance, contained in the soul ; it is the
life of the soul ; it corresponds therefore to blood. So far as human beings
are concerned then it is proper to apply the terms flesh and blood to the two
constituents of their spiritual nature. If then the spiritual constitution of
man is an index of the constitution of superior spiritual beings—which there
is no reason to doubt, since God made man in his own image,—we may safely
conclude that the Son of God, in his pre-existent state, had a soul and a
spirit, or a spiritual body and a life within it, which are properly called flesh
and blood. These are the elements of which tlie bread and wine of the
Lord's Supper are the emblems. It was the breaking of this body and the
outpouring of this blood tHat took away the sin of the world. Tho soul and
spirit 01 the SoiTof God came out from the glory of the Father into .he s| here
of fallon humanity, put on the likeness of sinful flesh, su^anitted to the infirm-
ities, temptations and sufferings of a carnal state, encountered the full tcrrent
of the wrath of the eternal murderer, tasted through its mortal envelope the
bitterness of death, and sounded the dark abyss cf Bades. Thus the Lamb
of God gave his flesh and blood for the life of the world. TliC trsnsactirn on
CaU'ar/ was one scene in this great crucifixion, and a miniature cxi orent of
the whole.
We next inquire, by .rhat process we are to eat the flesh and drink the
blood of Christ.
As it is not the material flesh and blood that is to be received, so it cannot
be the material body that is to eat and drink. The food and that which
feeds upon it must be homogeneous. It is evident therefore that it is our
soul and spirit, i. e. the flesh "and blood of our inner man, that is to partake
of the flesh and blood of Christ. Accordingly the terms '
eat' and '
drink'
are repeatedly explained in the 6 th of John by equivalent terms which denote
acts of the inner man. When Christ exhorted those who followed him, to
'labor for the meat that endureth to eternal life,' they said to him, '
What
shall we ,4o that we might work the works of God ? Jesus answered and
said unto them. This is the work of God, that ye believe on him whom he hath
sent.' Ver. 27—29. Thus it appears thafrN^^itt^/is the act which appro-
priates the food of eternal life, and the equivalent of the eating and drinking
spoken of afterwards. This is further evinced in the following passages.
' I am the bread of life ; he that cometh to me shall never hunger, and he
that believeth on me shall never thirst.' Ver. 35. '
This is the will of him
that sent me, that every one which seeth the Son and believeth on him, may
have everlasting life.' Ver. 40. '
Verily, I say unto you, he that believeth
on me hath everlasting life ; I am the bread of life.' Ver. 47, 48. When
our inner man comes to the Son, sees him and believes on him, we do the
thing meant by the terms '
eating his flesh' and '
drinking his blood.'
^
In exact actordance with this exposition, Christ, in the conclusion of his
discourse, specifies the form in which his flesh and blood is conveyed to those
who feed upon it. If beliejmg is eating and drinking, then since the thing
received in the act of believing is a proposition or word, it follows that Christ's
word is the vehicle of his flesh and blood. And so he explains himself. H©
136 BREAD OF LIFiE.
says ' It is the spirit that quickeneth ; the flesh profiteth nothing ; the words
that I speak unto you^ they are spirit and they are life ;' i. e. the words that
I speak unto you, are the food that quickens to eternal hfe, -whieh I have
been proposing to you, under the terms '
flesh' and '
blood.'
It is a fact well known to spiritualists, that the word of every spiritual be-
ing is an actual substance, sent forth from his inw^ard center, carrying with it
the properties of his Hfe. It is also a known fact that the act of behe\ing
actually receives into the soul and spirit, the substance conveyed in the word
believed. So that communication by word from one person to another,
efiects an actual junction of sjDiirits, and conveys to the receiver a portion of
the life and character of the communicator. It was with a view to this phi-
losophy and for the purpose of enforcing it, that Christ chose his language in
the 6th of John. He wished to apprise his hearers thoroughly that the inter-
course with him which he called believing on him, was not a mere solitary
movement of the believer's own mind, caused by hearing physical sounds,
but a reception of the efl[luence of his soul and spirit into the behever's soul
and spirit. He Avould have them understand that in spiritually receiving his
spiritual word, they became Identified with him as really as a man becomes
identified with his food in eating~and digesting it.
We protest against the idea that Christ's language in the 6th of John is
merely figurative. Though it is not true in a physical sense that believers
eat and drink the elements of Christ's body, it is true iji a spiritual sense,
and that sense is as real as the physical. The thing done in eating and
drinking, viz., the reception of a nutritious substance into the laboratory of
life, is done in imbibing the spiritual elements of Christ's nature ; and the
sensations which attend the two processes are not so entirely unlike as un-
spiritual persons may suppose. Every one who has had intercourse with the
Word of life, knows that its entrance is felt not merely in the mind by its
information, but in the center of life by its power ; and that it causes a sen-
sation of strength, growth, and refreshment. Even the place where it takes
effect is coincident with the digestive organs of the body. Christ, speaking
of this very intercourse, said on a certain occasion, '
If any man thirst, let
him come unto me and drink. He that believeth on me, as the scripture
hath said, out of his helly shall flow rivers of Hving water ;' and it is added,
' This spake he of the Spirit which they that believe on him should receive.'
John 7: 37—39. The idea here is not that rivers of living water shall flow
from the believer abroad, but from God into him, as Christ said in another
place—' Whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him, shall never
thirst ; but the water that I shall give him shall be in him a well of water
springing up into everlasting life.'' John 4: 14. The expression 'out of
his belly''—indicates that the fountain of the water of life rises in the middle
region of the spiritual body ; and that coincides with the place where food is
elaborated in the natural body.
Finally, we Avill notice the results of eating Christ's flesh and drinking his
blood.
As food gives its nature to the body that receives it, so the spiritual flesh
and blood of Christ, received through his word, communicates its nature to
EKEAD OF LIFE. 137
the soul and spirit of the believer. And as Christ, in his spiritual nature, is
the ever-living Son of God, the behever, being identified with him, becomes
a son of God and partaker of the eternal life of the Father. This is what
Christ declares in these words—' He that eateth my flesh and drinketh my
blood, dwelleth in me and I in him. As the living Father hath sent me, and
I hve by the Father; so he that eateth me, even he shall live by me.' Ver.
56, 57.
It is repeatedly affirmed that partakers of the flesh and blood of Christ
shall Hive forever: Ver. 50, 51, 58. See also ch. 8: 51, and 11: 2a. This
has no primary reference to the life of the natural body, as is evident from
the following considerations : 1. The whole discourse, as we have seen, re-
lates to the spiritual flesh and blood of Christ—to spiritual eating and drinldng
—and of course to the spiritual part of him who eats and drinks. It is the
soul and spirit of man that receives the effluence of the soul and spirit of
Christ ; and of course it is that part of his nature, and not his natural body,
which is quickened to everlasting life. 2. The death w^hich is set over
against the life promised to believers, is not the death of the body, but a death
existing while men are in the body. '
Jesus said unto them, Verily verily
I say unto you, except ye eat the flesh of the Son of man and drink his blood,
ye ha,ve no life in you.' Ver. 53. So John says
—'He that hath the Son
hath life, and he that hath not the Son of God hath not life. 1 John 5: 12.
The life promise^ therefore is the opposite of the death of the inner man,
i. e. it is the life of the inner man.
Christ had his eye on the soul and spirit ; and regarding men in their sins
as already dead, he offered them his spiritual flesh and blood as a quickening
ahment, by partaking of which, they might enter on eternal life at once. As
in the case of the carnal, death is represented as already present, though
the body is not dead, so in the case of believers, eternal life is represented
as already begun, though they are still in the w^orld. ' Whoso eateth my
flesh and drinketh my blood, hath eternal life.' Ver. 54, and 47. The con-
ception which this discourse is designed to give us is evidently this : Sin-
ners are already dead, and evermore sinking deeper in death. In putting off"
the body they only take one step in their downward course. The death of
the outer man is but the continuation and complement of the pre^sdous death
of their soul and spirit. On the other hand, believers, by partaking of the
flesh and blood of Christ, begin to live, and their life proceeds onward forever.
Ig is the life of their inner man, and is not dependent on the continuance
of its physical envelope. If they put off" the body, the change is rather birth
than death. Their soul and spirit live as they did before, by the life of
Christ, and they enter a sphere more favorable to the spiritual body than this
world. This is the sense in which they never die.
It must not however be inferred from the fact that eternal life is begun in
in them, thab they enter upon the complete resurrection at the death of the
body. If the mere presence of the life of God in the soul and spirit w^ere the
whole of the resurrection, believers might as well be said to have attained the
resurrection before death as afterward ; whereas we know that the primitive
saints were waiting for the glorified body. Moreover, on that supposition,
17 f
138 B21BAD OV LIPB.
Christ could not have been the subject of a resurrection, i. e. a rismg frotti-
the dead, at all ; for he had the life of God in his soul and spirit from the
beginning, and was never dead as to the inner man, and of course never in
a condition to be raised from the dead. Whereas, we know that he was the
first subject of the resurrection, and a pattern of the resurrection of all be-
lievers. It is evident therefore that there is an important distinction between
the initial attamment of eternal life, and the final completed resurrection.
The former is an operation on the interior of the person ; the latter, on the
exterior. The former is consistent with a residence in this world or in Hades.
The latter is a rising out of Hades and this world into the immediate presence
of God. The former, in the case of Christ, was the effect of his permanent,
and we may say, constitutional union with the Father ; while the latter was
WTOught by special exertion of the Father's mighty powder in bringing him up
from the abyss into which he had descended. In the case of those who believe
on Christ, the former commences when they see Christ spiritually, and re-
ceive his nature into the inner man, and continues onward forever, though
they remain in the body, or pass into Hades ; but the latter commences when
they are brought up from this world and Hades into the presence of Christ' S'
glorious body.
The distinction which we have sketched is explicitly and repeatedly re-
cognized in the 6th of John. Thus Christ says, '
This is the will of him
that sent me, that every one which seeth the Son, and believeth on him, may
have eternal life ; and I will raise him up at the last day. ^ Ver. 40. Here
it is evident that having eternal life is a present attainment, immediately
consequent on believing ; but being raised up at the last day is a future bles-
sing, to be effected at an appointed time and by a special act of Christ. So,
in another place, Christ says, 'Whoso eateth my flesh and drinketh my blood
hath eternal fife ; and Iwill raise him up at the last day.^ Ver. 54. This
is equivalent to saying that one who hath eternal life, nevertheless is not in
the final resurrection, but is to he raised up at an appointed future time.
These then are the results of our exposition of the 6th of John, viz :•
1. The bread of life, or the flesh and blood of Christ, is his interior divine nar
ture, i. e. his soul and spirit, which are properly called the flesh and blood
of his spiritual body. 2. The reception of this flesh and blood designated by
the terms eating and drinking^ is effected by the influx of Christ's soul and
spirit into the soul and spirit of behevers, through his spiritual word. 3. The
results of this junction are present possession of interior eternal life, and se-
curity of an ultimate resurrection to a glorified state.
rwi»n*"»*>r»"
§ 21. THE NEW COVENANT.
Every reader of the Bible must have observed that two covenants are
frequently mentioned and recognized therein, differing from each other in
many important respects, and pertaining respectively to the Jewish and
Christian dispensations. The division of the Bible into two books, called the
^ old and new testaments,^ or 'covenants,^ (for both of these words are uni-
formly translations of ^diatheke,''') is a fact fitted perpetually to suggest the
existence and difference of the two covenants. For instances of direct allu-
sion to them, see Matt. 26: 28, 1 Cor. 11: 25, Gal. 4: 24, Heb. 7: 22,
8: 6—13, 9: 15. As we live in the '
last time,' (1 John 2: 18,) the period
subsequent to the coming of the mediator of the new covenant, (Gal. 4: 4,)
it well behooves us to understand the nature, terms and privileges of that
covenant, lest we be found at last in the case of those who ' knew not the
time of their visitation,' and perished, though the ' kingdom of God came
nigh unto them.' This we may do by giving heed to the special discussion
of the subject, contained in the epistle to the Hebrews. That book might
well be entitled, 'A Comparison of the Jewish and Christian Dispensations
;'
or in other words, '
The Old and New Covenants.' In this article we invite
attention especially to a statement of the principles of the new covenant,
•contained in the eighth chapter of that epistle, viz.:
" Now hath he [Christ] obtained a more excellent ministry, by bow much al-
so he is the mediator of a better covenant, which was established upon better
•promises ; for if that first covenant had been faultless, then should no place have
been found for the second. For, finding fault with them, he saith, Behold the
days come saith the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house of
Israel and with the house of Judah .: not according to the covenant that 1 made
with their fathers, in the day that I took them by the hand to lead them out of
the land of Egypt ; because they continued not in my covenant^ [although I was
an husband unto them. See Jeremiah 31: 32, from which the apostle quotes,]
and I regarded them not, saith the Lord. For this is the covenant that I will
make with the house of Israel after those days, saith the Lord; I will put my
laws into their mind, and write them in their hearts ; and ' will be to them a God,
and they shall be to me a people ; and they shall not teach every man his neigh-
bour, and every man his brother, saying, Know the Lord : for all shall know me,
from the least to the greatest. For I will be merciful to their unrighteousness,
and their sins and their iniquities will I remember no more. In that he saith, a
new covenant, he hath made the first old. Now that which decayeth and wax-
eth old, is ready to vanish away," Heb. 8: 6—13.
in elucidating this passage we shall notice, 1, the time; 2, the nature;
3, the mode offulfilment of the new covenant.
I. The time of the dispensation of the new covenant.
1. The new covenant was not made before the time of Moses; for then the
new was made before the old, the second before the first. '
Behold the days
come, saith the Lord, when I will make a new covenant, &c., not according
to the covenant which I made with their fathers, when I took them by the
140 THE NEW COVENANT.
hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt; i. e. the time of Moses. ' If
ih'^it first covenant,' i. e. the one ministered by Moses, (see ver. 6,) ' had
been faultless, then should no place have been sought for the second'
2. It was not made hfore the time of Jeremiah^ from whose prophecy
, this passage is quoted ; for then he represented that as future which was
past, '
Behold the days come^ saith the Lord, when I will make a new cov-
enant,' &c. ' This is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel
after those days,' &c.
These two remarks are made for the purpose of subverting the notion of
some who deny that Christianity is established upon better promises than
preceding dispensations, saying that the covenant now under consideration
was made with Abraham. This notion is chiefly founded on a passage in
Gal. 3; 8, &c. 'The scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the hea-
then through faith, preached before ,
[or foretold] the gospel unto Abraham,
saying, [not ' I will put my law into thy heart,' but,] In thee shall all na-
tions he blessed.'. This was only a promise of the future preaching of the
gospel ; not a preaching of the gospel itself. If this proves that the new
covenant was made with Abraham, we may prove, by the same rule, that it
was made -with the house of Israel, at the time Jeremiah said, ' Behold the
days come, saith the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house
of Israel;' for in these words he preached the same gospel which was preach-
ed to Abraham, viz. a prediction of the new covenant. By the same rule
also, we may prove that every prediction in the Bible, of future blessings,
gave to those who received them, present possession of those blessings. But
the passage following, from the same chapter, ver. 16, &c., is perhaps consid-
ered more conclusive. '
Brethren, I speak after the manner of men ; though
it be but a man's covenant, yet, if it be confirmed, no man disannuUeth or
addeth thereto. Now to Abraham and his seed were the promises made.
He saith not. And to seeds, as of many; but as of one. And to thy seed, which
is Christ. And this I say, that the covenant that was confirmed before of
God in Christ, the law, which was four hundred and thirty years after, can-
not disannul, that it should make the promise of none effect.' Do these words
declare, as some suppose, that the law was given four hundred and thirty
years after the gospel? No, verily; for then as we have seen, the new cov-
enant was four hundred and thirty years older than the old. We concede
that the covenant '
was confirmed of God in Christ,' before the giving of the
law, and before the world began ; but it was not confirmed of God in Abra-
ham. He received only the promise of the future fulfilment of the covenant,
when his seed, which was Christ, should come. Our present discussion re-
spects not the question when God purposed the establishment of the new cov-
enant, or when he made the covenant with his Son, or when he first predic-
ted to man its fulfilment ; or whether he promised to Abraham that it should
be fulfilled in his seed ; but when it first took effect upon the human race.
This is what we mean when we inquire when the new coven xnfc was madf ;
and this is what Jeremiah meant when he said, ' Behold the day; come, saith
the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel.' In
calling it a new covenant, and representing it Sos future, he did not intend to
THE NEW COVENANT. 141
intimate that it was new oy future in the mind of God or of Christ ; neither
did he intend to deny that it was promised to Abraham and his seed ; bufhe
did intend to intimate that the human race had not yet received its blessings*
That Paul had no other view of the matter than that which we have given,
is evident from what he says in several verses following the passage in ques-
tion ; for example, ver. 19, ' Wherefore then serveth the law ? It was added
because of transgressions, till the seed should come^ to whom the promise teas
made.^ Ver. 23, 'Before faith came we Avere kept under the law, shut up
unto the faith which should afterwards be revealed.'
Besides all this, Paul expressly declares in two instances that Abraham
had not '
received the promise ;' evidently meaning thereby the new cove-
nant. Heb. 11: 13, 39.
The covenant which God made mth Abraham 'and his seed,'' which of
course was in existence and force, when Jeremiah predicted the new cove-
nant, was not identical with the new covenant ; for if it was, Jeremiah falsely
represented that as future, which was past. The covenant made with Abra-
ham stood in the same relation to the new covenant, as that in which Abra-
ham stood to Christ. As Christ, ' the seed to whom the promise was made,'
was in the loins of Abraham, so the new covenant was, if we may use the
expression, seminally included in the covenant made with Abraham. Yet
as Christ was not born till two thousand years after Abraham, so the new
covenant was not developed and fulfilled till two thousand years after Abra-
ham's covenant ; so that, if Jeremiah could properly represent the coming of
Christ as future, he could with equal propriety represent the new covenant
as future.
3. The new covenant was made at the coming of Christ ; i. e. it began
to take effect upon the human race, when ' God was manifest in the flesh.'
This is impUed in the first words of the passage under consideration. ' Now
hath he [Christ] obtained a more excellent ministry, by how much also he
is the mediator of a iMer covenant.'' It is also implied in the comparisouy
which occupies almost the whole epistle to the Hebrews, between the Jewish
and Christian dispensations, as will be seen in the following examples. .
' If
the word spoken by angels was steadfast, . . . how shall we escape, if we
neglect so great salvation; which at the first began to he spoken hythe Lordf
Heb. 2: 2, 3. '
Being made perfect, he became the author of eternal sal-
vation to all them that obey him.' 5: 9. '
Christ being come, ... by his
own blood, he entered once into the holy place, having obtained eternal re-
demption for us.' 9: 11, 12. '
Now once in the end of the world, hath he
appeared to put away sin.' 9: 26.
The tenth chapter expressly designates the coming of Christ, as the com-
mencement of the dispensation of the new covenant. '
When he cometh into
the ivorld, he saith, Sacrifice and offering thou wouldst not, but a body hast
thou prepared me. . . . Above when he said. Sacrifice and offering, &c. thou
wouldst not, which are offered by the law: then said he, Lo, I come to do thy
will, God. Hetaketh away the first, that he may establish the second. By
the which -will we are sanctified. . . . Whereof the Holy Ghost also is a witness
to us: for after that he had said. This is the covenant that I will make with them
after those days, saith the Lord, I will put my laws into their hearts, and
14^ THB NEW COVENANt.
i??i their minds will Iwrite them.'* &c. Heb. 10: 5—17. Here Paul usel?
'thfe words which predict the establishment of the new covenant, as descrip-
tive of the work which commenced when Christ came into the world, and
substituted the sacrifice of himself for the sacrifices of the law.
While we assert that the new covenant began to take effect at the first
coming of Christ, we beUeve its principles and powers were not fidly devel-
oped till his second coming, at the final abrogation of the Mosaic institution.
'
He taketh away the first, that he may establish the second.' The second
was established fully, only when the first was wholly taken away. The tran-
sition period of forty yearsv, between the first and second coming of Christ,
was a period during which the principles of the old and new covenants were
blended together. As Judaism was gradually waxing old, decaying and
vanishing away, Christianity gradually attained the vigor and maturity of
its development. Indeed, in one sense, Christ himself came gradually-. He
who is '
the Avay, the tritth, and the life,' had not fully come, till the canon
of scripture was closed. So that the expression 'the coming of Christ,'
may properly be regarded as covering the whole time between his first and
second coming ; and in this sense we may say, without qualification, the new
covenant was made at the coming of Christ.
II. The nature of the new covenant.
1. It secures salvation from sin. Its chief promise is ^ I will put my
laws into their mind, and write them in their hearts.^ Thus the whole law
becomes a promise. Under the old covenant, God said
—' Thou shalt love
•the Lord thy God with all thy heart,' or suffer damnation. Under the new
covenant, he says '
Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart,'
for Ihave promised it and will secure it. Grace takes the place of legal
penalty: statutes become promises.
That the new covenant is a promise of perfect sanctification, plainly ap-
pears from the connection in which it is spoken of in the tenth chapter.
* Then said he, Lo, I come to do thy will, God. He taketh away the
first, that he may establish the second. By the which will tve are sanctified,
'&c. For by one olfering he hath forever perfected them that are sanctified.
Whereof the Holy Ghost also is a witness to us : for after that he had said
before. This is the covenant that I will make with them after those days,
•saith the Lord; I ivill init my laws into their hearts,'' &c. Heb. 10: 14—17.
-Some suppose that the sanctification and perfection mentioned in this pas-
sage, refer oaly to justification by the sacrifice of Christ. Whereas Paul's
application of the words of the Holy Ghost—' I will put rny laws into their
hearts'—proves undeniably that he referred to subjective righteousness, per-
sonal sanctification.
The contrast between the law, as a dispensation which could not purge
the conscience or make the subjects of it perfect, and the gospel, as bringing
in everlasting righteousness, is is insisted upon throughout the epistle to the
Hebrews: e. g., 7: 18, 19, 9: 8—14, 10: 1—22, 11: 39, 40, &c. ; as
also in many other of his epistles : e. g., Rom. 6: 14, 8: 3, 4, 10: 4,
.2 Cor. 3: 6—9, (where the new covenant is called '
the ministration of
righteousness,') Gal. 4: 3—5, &c. The office of Clirist, as the mediator
THE NEW COVEITANT: liS-
of the new covenant, was stated at his birth. ' Thou shalt call his name
Jesus, for he shall save his people from their sins J Matt. 1: 21. We de-
clare with Paul, '
This is a faithful saying, and worthy of all f),cceptation,
that Jesus Christ came into the world to save sinners.^
2. It secures salvation from sin forever. This remark, perhaps, can
scarcely be distinguished from the former ; for salvation from sin, in the
proper signification of the expression, is salvation from sin forever. What-
ever interrupts everlasting holiness, surely is sin ; and he that ever falls into
sin, can scarely be said to have been saved from sin ; certrinly he was not
saved from the worst of all sins, viz., apostasy. Yet the distinction we have
made is common. Many believe themselves wholly sanctified, who yet have
no assurance of remaining so. We observe therefore on this point, that the
contrast instituted between the new covenant and the old, decisively shows
tliat the former secures salvation /orev^r. ' Behold, the days come, saith the
Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel. Not ac-
cording to the covenant that I made with their fathers when I took them by
the hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt ; for they continued not in
my covenant^ (though I was an husband unto them,) and I regarded them
not, saith the Lord.' It is plain, that the deficiency of the old covenant
w^as the fact that one party continued not in it ; which deficiency, by the
terms of the contrast, w^as not to exist in the new one. ' This is the cove-
nant that I will make with them after those days, saith the Lord ; I will put
my laws into their mind, and write them in their hearts ; and I will be to
them a God, and they shall hejo me a people.'' Under the first covenant,
he declared only, ' I will be to them a God,' if they will be to me a people.
They sinned against him, and the covenant became unprofitable. Under
the second covenant, he engages for the faithfulness of both parties. ^ I will
be to them a God, and they shall he to me a people ^^
for '
I will write my
laws in their hearts.' In the first case, God was a faithful husband, but the
house of Israel was an unfaithful bride. In the second case, God not only
promises to be a faithful husband, but engages to secure the fidelity of his
bride. In other w^ords, the new covenant is one in which God secures the
fulfilment of its requisitions on both sides. This idea is evidently alluded to
in that puzzling passage in Gal. 3: 20—' ISTow a mediator is not a mediator
of one ; but God is one.' Having characterized the Jewish dispensation as
one given by the ministration of angels, '
in the hands of a mediator^^
he
takes occasion to show its inferiority, by contrast with the Christian dispen-
sation, in this respect. The fact that there was a mediator under the law,
showed the separation that existed between God and man. ^A mediator is
not a mediator of one."* Whereas through Christ, under the gospel, God and
man are identified. The two parties of the former covenant flow together
and become one in the mediator; so that he is no longer properly a mediator.
God, and Christ, and man, are not three, but one ; for the divine nature
dwells in all, and '
God is one.' In fact, there is but one party to the new
covenant ; so that it might properly be called an unconditional promise.—
For confirmation of the point under consideration, we refer again to the
mention of the new covenant in the tenth chapter. * By one offering, he
144 THE NEW COVENANT.
hath perfected, forever^ them that are sanctified : whereof the Holy Ghost
also is a witness to us/ &c., in the words of the new covenant.
But it is objected, that a covenant such as we exhibit, is inconsistent with
the free agency of man. Most of those who make this objection, believe
the common doctrine of the *
perseverance of the saints,' and pray for sanc-
tification by the poAver of God. Such are forever barred from a hearing of
their objection ; for it is inconsistent with their own principles. All believe
that the hoHness of saints in heaven is eternally secure ; all, therefore, admit
the consistency of the principle of the new covenant, with the free agency
of man.
3. The new covenant gives liberty from external law. This also is im-
plied in the contrast presented between the old and the new dispensation.
The new covenant is 'not according to the covenant' made with the house of
Israel by the mediation of Moses. Under the latter, the law was written on
tables of stone. Under the former, it is written in the heart. '
I will put
my laws into their mind, and write them in their hearts.' And by this dif-
ference of administration, we may account for the difference of the promised
success of the two systems. External law of necessity supposes internal
depravity. ' The law was not made for a righteous man, butTor the lawless,
and disobedient.' 1 Tim. 1: 9. Who ever heard of a law that men shall
eat or sleep ? Such a law would be ridiculous, simply because all men are
sufficiently disposed to eat and sleep. So ^ men were sufficiently disposed
to love God with the w^hole heart, a law requiring them to do so would be
equally ridiculous. Tl^is disposition God promises, by the new covenant, to
secure ; and his promise abohshes his statute. But under the Jewish dis-
pensation, by reason of the deficiency of this disposition, the statute was
necessary, in order to secure at least external obedience. ' It was a school-
master unto Christ.' Gal. 3: 24. (See'ffie'briginal.) While the law secured
to some extent external obedience, it still by no means disposed the heart to
the love of God. It could not give righteousness : on the contrary, it aggra-
vated the guilt of its subjects. *
The law entered that the offense might
abound.' Rom. 5: 20. '
The law worketh wrath.' Rom. 4: 15. So that the
nature of the old covenant shows us why '
they continued not in it ;'
as also
the nature of the new covenant shows us why it produces a better result.
The first operates on the understanding ; the second, on the disposition or
nature of man. The first attempts to check the leprosy of sin, by'^exteiiial
medication ; the second pnrgcs the blood, and by pm'ging the blood removes
the necessity or propriety of external medication. Under the old covenant,
God said—' Do according to all I command you, and ^^e shall live.' Under
the new covenant, where its powers are fully developed, he may safely say
* Do as you please ; for I promise that your pleasure shall be^ mine. I will
write my law upon your hqarts.' Thus perfect liberty is one "essential el-
ement of the new covenant. For further discussion of this point, see Rom.
6: 14, 7: 1—25, the whole epistle to the Galatians, 1 Tim. 1: 5—17, &c.
4. The new covenant sets its subjects above the necessity of ma7i's teaching.
* They shall not teach every man his neighbor, and every man his brother,
saying, Know the Lord : for they all shall know me, from the least of them
THE NEW COVENANT. 145
to t"he greatest.' The difference between the old and new covenants, in this
respect, is essentially the same as in the point last discussed. Outward is
exchanged for inward operation. Under the Jewish dispensation, in respect
to instruction, Moses was the principal mediator between God and man.
He, with a few others in succeeding ages, were permitted to draw nigh to
<jrod, and receive by personal communication with him, instruction and com-
mandments. But the mass of the people could not be said to '
hnow the
Lord.' They heard from him by their teachers, but they w^ere not person-
ally acquainted with him. Moses, groaning under the burden of his office,
longed for a system of universal personal instruction from the Lord. 'Would
God,' says he, '
that all the Lord's people were prophets, and that the Lord
would put his spirit upon them.' Num. 11: 29. The new covenant gives
the blessing he desired. There is now but '
one mediator between God and
man, even Jesus Christ ;'
and he not a mediator in such a sense as implies
separation between the parties, but one in tvhom the parties meet and ai-e .
one. So that all the Lord's people are prophets—all know the Lord. '
Ye
have an unction from the Holy One, and ye know all things. Ye need not
that any man teach you.' 1 John 2: 20. 27. ' There hath not been born of
women a greater than John the Baptist ; notwithstanding, he that is least in
the kingdom of heaven—[the dispensation of the new covenant] —is greater
than he.' Matt. 11: 11. Every subject of the new covenant walks in a sure
pathway of truth, and shall stand, though he be the least in the kingdom of
God, where John the Baptist would have fallen : he shall stand, though
every inhabitant of the earth and hell call him a fool and a madman, and
work and watch for his dovmfall. God must be overcome, before he can bo
hurtfully ensnared. Compare with the doctrine here delivered, John 14:
16—27, 16: 7—15, Rom. 15: 14, 1 Cor. 2: 15, 2 Cor. 3: 18, Col. 2:
8—10.
III. The mode of the fulfilment of the new covenant.
We have already, to some extent, incidentally discussed this part of our
subject ; but for the purpose of presenting it more directly, we observe,
1. Christ is the mediator of the new covenant. By him we are saved
from sin—by him we are secured in holiness—by him we are m3ide free from
the latv—by him we have access to God : so that we need not that any man
teach us.
2. More specifically, the new covenant is fulfilled in believers hi/ the blood
of Christ. This is evident from the following passages :
' If the blood of
bulls and goats, &c., sanctifieth to the purifying of the flesh, how much more
shall the blood of Christ, who, through the eternal Spirit offered liimself
without spoTunto Gfod, pujge your conscience from dead works, to serve the
living God: 2biiidi for this cause he is the mediator of the new covenant.'
Heb. 9: 14, 15. In the tenth chapter, having stated the principles and
introduction of the new covenant, the apostle proceeds thus :
'
Having there-
fore, brethren, boldness to enter the holiest b^ the blood of Jesus, by a new
and living way, . . . let us draw near,' &c. 10:19—22. Again; ' Ye are
come .... to Jesus, the mediator of the new covenant, and to the blood of
sprinJcUng, that speaketh better things than that of AbeL' 12; 22—24.
18
146 THH ]!TEW COVENANT.
Again ; *
Now the God of peace, that brought again from the dead our Lord
Jesus, that great Shepherd of the sheep, through the hlood of the everlaS'
ting covenant^ make you perfect,' &c. 13: 20, 21.
That we may have a more complete view of the testimony of scripture on
this subject, we quote several other passages, less explicitly referring to the
new covenant, but of a similar character. ' Except ye eat the flesh of the
Son of man, and drink Ms hlood, he have no life in you : whoso eateth my
flesh and drinketh my blood, hath eternal life.' John^: 53, 64. 'In Christ
Jesus, 3^e who sometimes were afar off, are made nigh by the blood of Christ/
Eph. 2: 13. ' Ye were not redeemed with corruptible things, as silver and
gold, from your vain conversation received from your fathers, but with the
precious blood of Christ,^ IPet. 1: 18, 19. 'The blood of Jesus Christ
his Son cleanseth us from all sin,' 1 John 1: 7. '
Unto him that washed us
from our sins in his own hlood, ... be glory,' &c. Rev. 1: 5. ' Thou w^ast
slain, and hast redeemed us to God by thy blood.'' Rev, 5: 9. '
They over-
came him by the blood of the Lamh^ &c. Rev. 12: 11.
In these passages the blood of Jesus Christ is represented as having pow-
er to ' purge the conscience ;' to give access to '
the holiest ;'
to ' sanctify
;'
to give ' eternal life ;'
to '
bring nigh' unto God "; to '
redeem from sin ;'
to
*cleanse from all sin ;' to ^ wash from sm ;' to 'overcome' Satan. The most
careless observer may perceive that all this cannot be true of the mere blood
of a human body, however applied ; much less of human blood merely shed
on a cross, operating as an expiation of past transgression. How such blood
thus applied, can cleanse men from all sin, and bring them nigh unto God,
"We venture to say, nobody can tell. The nature of the case demands that
we seek some other signification of the w^ord ' blood' in these passages, and
some other mode of its application. We recur, then, to the definition of 'blood''
which God has given with great particularity, in Gen. 9: 4, Lev. 17: 11—14,
Deut. 12: 23. 'Blood is the life,' The blood of Jesus Christ then, is tho
life of Jesus Christ. But the life of Jesus Christ is not the blood of his hu-
man body. He had fife of infinitely higher value than his life in the flesh,
before he became incarnate. Manifestly, the supposition that the blood of
his human body was his Ufe, would be a denial of his pre-existence and his
superhuman nature. ' Every spirit that confesseth that Jesus Christ is come
in the flesh, is o£ God.' 1 John 3: 2. Such a confession necessarily recog-
nizes the existence of Jesus Christ before he came in the flesh ; but if tho
blood of the flesh in which he came is regarded as in a predominant sense
* the blood [i. e. the life] of Jesus Christ,' his pre-existing superhuman life
is overlooked. In order to ascertain what is meant in scripture by the 'blood
of Jesus Christ' we must bear in mind what the scripture teaches concern-
ing his nature. Varying a little the words of Paul, in 1 Cor. 15: 89, &c.,.
we argue thus : All blood is not the same blood ; but there is one kind of
blood of men, another blood of beasts, another of fishes, another of birds
so of the different orders of behigs above, as well as below man ; for there
are celestial, as well as terrestrial bodies.' If we wish then to ascertain what
kind of blood belongs to any of these orders of beings, we inquire what is
the nature of the being ? If we wish to ascertain what is the blood of Jesus
THB NE^t COYENANT. 147
Ohrist, we inquire what is his nature—is it terrestrial or celestial ? If he is
a man, then his blood is human ; if he is superhuman, then his blood is su-
perhuman ; if he is the Son of God, his blood is the Spirit of the living God.
However strange this language and reasoning may appear, it is abundantly
authorized bj the language and reasoning of Jesus himself. In John 6: 51,
he says, '
I am the living bread that came down from heaven. If any man
eat of this bread he shall live forever ; and the bread w^hich I will give is my
.fiesh,^ &c. It is manifest then that his flesh came doivri from heaven^ and
was not that human body which was born of the virgin Mary. Although
thrice^ in immediate connection with this passage, he virtually declared that
his flesh and blood came down from heaven, the Jews supposed that he re-
ferred to his human flesh and blood, when he said ' Except ye eat the flesh
and drink the blood, of thxi Son of man, ye have no life in you ;' and were
greatly offended. He therefore explained himself more fully, ver. 61—63.
* Doth this offend you ? What and if ye shall see the Son of man ascend up
wiiere he was before ? [As if he had said, you must bear in mind my pre-
existence, if you would understand my language.] It is the spirit [my su-
perhuman nature] that qu'ckeneth ;
[and this is what I mean when I say,
Whoso eateth my flesh and drinketh my blood, hath eternal life ;] the flesh,
[my human nature,] profiteth nothing.' Here then, we have Christ's own
•definition of the expression, Hhe hlood of ChristJ It is the life of that
sui^erhuinan nature ivhich he had hcfore his incarnation ; and in connection
with this definition, he declares what that life was ;
—'J live hy the Father.^
The Spirit, then, of the Father, or in other words, the Holy^Ghost, was the
life, and therefore the hlood of Jesus CJmst. (For cases of parallel and il-
lustrative phraseology, w^e refer to John T: 37—39, where the Holy Ghost
is called '
living water,' i. e. blood ; and 1 Cor. l2: 13, where believers
are represented as 'drhihing into one spirit.') It is manifest that they who
regard the human blood that followed the spear on Calvary, as Hhe hlood of
Christ^^
deny his superhuman nature, and degrade the Spirit of the hving
God into an animal fluid. Who, more than they, ' tread under foot the Son
of God, and count the hlood of tlie covenant . , , an unholy thing^f Heb.
10: 20.
Having then corrected our conceptions of the nature of ' the blood of
Jesus Christ,' we proceed to inquire how it is applied, Christ says, ' Except
ye eat my flesh and drink my blood, ye have no life in you.' Whatever we
eat and drink becomes a part of our nature, God forbade Noah and the
Jews to drink the blood of animals, '
which is their life,' doubtless because,
in so doing, they would receive the nature of the animals, and degrade their
own. The blood of the bulls and goats which w^ere sacrificed by the law,
was not drank, but sprinkled upon the people, that it might at least imper-
fectly shadow forth the sprinkling of the blood of Jesus, i. e. the effusion of
the Holy Ghost. But that which w^as forbidden in relation to the inferior
animals which were used as types, was required in relation to the superhuman
Son of God, the typified victim. The virtue of his sacrifice must be re-
ceived by drinking his hlood, and thus partaking of his nature. ' He that
eateth my flesh and drinketh my blood, divelleth in we, and I in him. As
148 THE NEW COVENANT,
the living Father hath sent me, and I live by the Father ; so he that eateth me,
even he shall live by me.' It is plain that the act of faith, the operation of
God, by which we receive Jesus Christ, is described by the expressions
'eating flesh' and ' drinking blood,' in order to convey the idea that we there-
by come into a living union with him, and partake of his nature. His blood
becomes our blood—his life our life. Christ endeavored to make this idea
permanent and prominent by the institution of the sacramental supper, the
initiatory symbol of the new covenant. Paul thus describes the institution
of that ordinance :
' The Lord Jesus, the same night in which he was be-
trayed, took bread ; and when he had given thanks, he brake it, and said,
Take, eat; this is my body, which is broken for you : this do in remembrance
of me. After the same manner also he took the cup when he had supped,
saying, this is the new covenant in my blood : this do ye, as oft as
ye drij^k it, in remembrance of me.' As Christ had before explained to his
disciples what he meant by '
eating his flesh and drinking his blood,' in John
6: 63, as we have seen above, he designed, without controversy, to make the
sacramental supper a symbol of the transaction by which believers become
one with liim. The wine of the eucharist is a type of the life-blood of the
superhuman Son of God, by which the new covenant is fulfilled. Believers
* have been baptized into one body, and have all been made to drink into that
one Spirit.' Thus they have eaten the flesh and drunk the blood of the Son
of man. Thus they receive the substance, of which the sacramental supper
was a shadovf.
'
The cup of blessing which we bless, is it not the communion
of the blood of Christ ?' 1 Cor. 10: 16. '
Do we not profess to drink the
blood of the Son of God, and thus have communion with him V
It will be seen that these views are opposed to the notions of those who
regard the expiatory ofiering of the human body of Christ as the substance
shadowed forth by the sacrifices of the law and by the Lord's supper. Such
persons, regarding themselves as justified, but not sanctified by the sacrifice
of Chiist, make the blood of the everlasting covenant the seal of their license
to sin. By ' looking to Calvary,' their faith receives forgiveness, while they
continue in sin. Tliis is not '-eating the flesh and drinking the blood of the
Son of man.' It will be seen, also, that these vievrs, and these only, furnish
a satisfactory explanation of those passages touching tlie efficacy of the blood
of Christ, "with which the New Testament abounds ; some of which were
quoted at the commencement of this discussion of that subject. Moreover
they greatly help us to understand the meaning of those passages which rep-
resent the church as the body of Christ: e. g., 1 Cor. 6: 15, 12: 12, Eph.
1: 23, 4: 4—16, 5: 23—32, Col. 2: 2—19, &c. The body of Christ is
filled .with his own blood. By becoming a member of the true church, then,
we receive the life-blood of Christ ; and ' the blood of Jesus Christ cleanseth
from all sin.' Thus is fulfilled the promise of God concerning the latter
days. ' Judah shall dwell forever, and Jerusalem from generation to gene-
ration. For I will cleanse their blood that I liave not cleansed: for the
Lord dwelleth in Zion.' Joel 3: 20: 21.
Thus we conclude, as the sum of all that has been said, that the new
covenant commenced its operation upon the human race at the coming of
SALVATION FROM SIN. 149
Christ; that its fulfilment gives perfect holiness, perfect security of holiness
perfect liberty, and perfect independence of human iyistruction ; that it is
fulfilled in believers by the energy of the blood of Christ, the spirit of the
living God.
We by no means say, that none but those who have received all the
blessings of this covenant, are in any sense Christians. The disciples were
called Christians first in Antioch, (Acts 11: 26,) long before the gospel of
the new covenant was fully developed. (See the concluding remark under
our first head 'the time/ &c.) Men are called Christians in our day,
because they '
call upon the name of the Lord Jesus ;' because they have
experienced '
conviction and conversion,' and make an outward profession of
religion ; nay, even because they live within the bounds of Christendom.
We grant also, if any have received any one of the blessings of the new
covenant, so far they are Christians, in the sense that looks at character
and not profession. Many profess to have received that blood which '
clean-
seth from all sin,' without the promise of security. If their hearts are pure,
so far they are not under the old covenant ; for that could not purge the
conscience. Many others profess to be free from the law, and not free from
sin. So far as their profession is intelligent and sincere, they are not under
the old covenant ; for that gave no liberty. In short we have reason to be-
lieve that there are, and have been, many, in all ages since the coming of
Christ, who in one respect or another have had '
the testimony of Jesus,'
the mediator of the new covenant; yet we do say none are, or have been,
Christians, in the sense in which Paul was, (if his state corresponded to his
preaching,) who have not received perfect holiness, perfect security,
PERFECT liberty, AND PERFECT INDEPENDENCE, BY THE BLOOD OF ChrIST.
§ 22. SALVATION FKOM SIN.
I. Holiness the principal object of the atonement.
'It is a faithful saying, and worthy of aU acceptation, that Jesus Christ
came uito the world to save sinners,'' From what does he propose to save
them ? We will answer this question by a few plain texts of scripture.
On the first page of the New Testament it is written, '
She [i. e. Mary"]
shall bring forth a son, and thou shalt call his name JESUS, [i. e. Savior]
for he shall save his people from their sins.' Matt. 1: 21. ' What the law
could not do, in that it was weak through the flesh, God, sending his own
Son in the likeness of sinful flesh, and for sin, condemned sin in the flesh
that the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us.^ Kom. 8: 3, 4.
' Christ loved the church, rnd gave himself for it, that he might sanctify
and cleanse it.^ Eph. 5: 25, 26. '
You, that were sometime ahenated, and
euemies in your mind by wicked works, yet now hath he reconciled, in the
150 SALVATION FROM SIN.
body of his flesh through death, to present you holy^ and unhlamahle, and
nnreprovahle, in Jus siyht.^ Col. 1: 21, 22. 'Who gave hhnself for us,
thai he might redeem usfroin all iniquity.^ Titus 2: 14. These texts ex-
pUcitly declare the object of the, mission and sacrifice of Christ to be the
salvation of his people—not merely or primarily from the consequences of
their sins—but from their sins themselves.
Dividing salvation into two great parts, viz., forgiveness of past sin, and
purification from present sin, it is plainly implied in nearly all the declarations
of the Bible touching the subject, that the latter part is the primary^ and
the former the secondary object of the work of Christ. This appears in the
above quotations. Purification was so much more prominent than forgiveness
in tlie minds of the New Testament writers, that their language in those
passages, and many others, would almost lead to the conclusion that it was
the only object of the atonement. The promise of the new covenant, as
quoted by Paul in Heb. 10: 16, IT, exhibits both parts of salvation, in their
proper order of iftiportance. '
This is the covenant that I will make with,
them after those days, saith the Lord'; Itvill put my laws into their hearts^
and in their minds will I ivrita them ; [this is purification ;] and their sins
and iniquities will I rememher no more :^ [this is forgiveness.] It is true
that forgiveness, in the order of time, necessarily precedes purification.-—
The past must be forgiven, before men can be saved from the present and
future power of sin. Hence we find salvation set forth in the following
manner :
—' If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our
sins, and to cleanse us fro77i all unrighteousness.^ IJohn 1; 9. Here the
order of the actual process of salvation is exhibited-—1, confession ; 2, for-
giveness ; 3, purification. But it is obvious that forgiveness, instead of
taking precedence of purification in importance, only bears the relation to it
•of means to an end. God pardons us that he may cleanse us. Forgiveness
is the foundation of purification ; but purification is that, without winch for-
giveness would be worthless, as a foundation would be Avorthless without a
superstructure.
When therefore Christ is called the ' Lamb of God, that taJcetJi away the
Mu of the world^ we understand the language as meaning more than that
by the atonement he has provided for the forgive^iess of mankind, and so has
taken away the legal consequences of sin. The '
taking away of sins' is
spoken of in Heb. 10: 4, as equivalent to a cleansing, by which the con-
science 'w> purged from sin, and by which 'the comer thereto is made per-
Ject.^ The apostle sa^s that the sacrifices of the law could not effect this
cleansing ; but he holds up the sacrifice of the Lamb of God, "as able thus
to ' take away sins.' His language is
—' By the which will [i. e. the will
of God executed by Christ on the cross, which will is given to believers by
the Holy Spirit,] we are sanctified, through the offering of the body of
Jesus Christ once for all.' Yer. 10. And again, '
By one offering he hath
forever perfected them that are sanctified.' Ver. 14. This language cer-
tainly ascribes a purifying power to the atonement, and indeed in such a
way as wholly to echpse its purchase of forgiveness. It is said in 1 John
3: 5, that Clirist '
was inanifeatcd to take away our sins;^ and the meaning
SALVATION FEOM SI^. 151
of the expression is clearly determined by what immediately follows :
—' Who-
soever abidetli in Mm sinneth not ; whosoever sinneth hath not seen him^
neither known him.'' He ' takes away sin' in such a way, that they who •
avail themselves of his sacrifice do not commit sin.
This \dew of the object for which Jesus Christ came into the world and
laid down his life, and this view alone, justifies us in calling the message
which came by him, '
the glorious gospel of the blessed God."* A ' gospel'
is good news., 'glad tidings of great joy.'' Luke 2: 10. But Jesus Christ
brought no neivs to the world, if his message was merely or chiefly a procla-
mation of pardon. Forgiveness had been promised to the penitent from the
beginning of the world. God had proclaimed himself to Moses and the
children of Israel, ' merciful and gracious, long-suffering, and abundant in
goodness and truth, keeping mercy for thousands, forgiving iniquity, trans-
gression and sin.' Ex. 34: 6, 7. The 'glad tidings of great joy' which the
angels represented as coming with the birth of Christ, were in fact tidings
of things well known to the prophets and patriarchs, if they related only to
the pardoning mercy of God. But if Jesus Christ came proclaiming not
©nly the mercy of God in pardoning sin, but also his power to cleanse and
preserve from sin ; if in addition to the forgiveness which was given to the
patriarchs and prophets, he proposed to clothe believers with the robe of
righteousness ; in a word, if it was, as we have shown, his peculiar office to
Have his p)eople from their sins/ then truly he brought 'good news' to the
world—^liis message is worthy to be called '
the glorious gospel.'
II. The sins of the Old Testament saints irrelevant.
It is obvious that the doctrine of salvation from sin, thus exhibited, is not
liable to any objections drawn from the experience of saints who lived before
the manifestation of Christ. We do not rely at all . upon the use of the
^ovdi perfect in reference to Noah, Job, &c. ; and we have no occasion to
prove that any of the '
Old Testament saints' were free from sin. On the
eontrar}^ we admit, nay we insist, that salvation from sin 'was unknown to
the ages and generations' of the Jewish dispensation, and was revealed only
after the commg of Christ. "VYe draw a very broad line of distinction be-
tween the dispensation before, and the dispensation after the manifestation
of Christ. To adduce the sins of ISIoses and David, as proof that the gos-
pel does not give entire sah^ation from sin, is to overlook altogether this dis-
tinction of dispensations, and in fact to assume that Jesus Christ brought no
new blessings to the world. This is as absurd as it would be to undertake ta
disprove the realities of the wonders effected at the present time by steam
power and the art of printing, by referring to facts that occurred a thousand
years ago. For we affirm, and have shown, and shall show more abundantly,
that the coming of Jesus Christ effected a revolution in the condition of
mankind with reference to spiritual privilege, as great as was effected in
mechanics and letters, by the discovery of steam power, and the invention
of the press.
The Old Testament saints did indeed foresee the coming of Christ, and
rejoice in view of the blessings he was to bring. The prophets foretold that
a '
way of holiness' should' be cast up ; that a '
new covenant,' securing
152 SALVATION FROM SIN.
obedience, should be given to God's people ; that they should be ^ sprinkled
with clean water/ and ' a new heart and right spirit' should be given them.
But that this foresight did not by any means amount to a possession of the
salvation of the gospel, is very evident from the following declaration of
Peter : —' Ye rejoice with joy unspeakable and full of glory ; receiving the
end of your faith, even the salvation of your souls: of which salvation the
prophets have inquired and searched diligently, who prophesied of the grace
that should come unto you : searching Avhat, or what manner of time the
Spirit of Christ which was in them did signify, when it testified beforehand
the sufferings of Christ and the glory that should follow. Unto whom it
was revealed, that not unto themselves, but unto us, they did minister
the things which are now reported unto you by them that have preached the
gospel unto you, luith the Holy Crhost sent down from heaven.' 1 Pet. 1:
8—12. This passage represents the saints of the primitive church as re-
ceiving '
a salvation of their souls,' which the Old Testament prophets only
foretold as about to come after the sufferings of Christ.
But an objector may ask, " Were not the Old Testament saints saved ?"
We answer. Yes ; but not till Christ came in the flesh. Paul, speaking of
the whole hne from Abel downward, says '
These all, having obtained a
good report through faith, received not the promise, God having provided
some better thing for us, that ilrey without i • iAo dd not he made perfect."*
Heb. 11: 39, 40. Perx^ect h-, liness (and of coiii e salvation) was given to
the saints in this world and in the spiritual world o.t the same time ; and it
was not given to either, till the reconciUation of the divine and human na-
tures was effected by the incarnation and death of Christ.
" But the Old Testament saints certainly had faith ; and w^as it not saving
faith ?" Answer. It w^as saving in this respect—it kept them from despair,
and from such gross transgressions as would have sealed their ruin, and gave
them a hope, more or less clear and joyful, of ultimate, complete redemption
but it did not save them from sin—^it did not put them in p)ossession of that
which they hoped for. '
They died in faith, not having received the promi-
ses, hut having seen them afar off."* Heb. 11: 13. Their faith, like a cable
that connects a ship with the shore, connected them with Sb future salvation.
The end of their faith, the shore which they hoped for, was perfect holiness ;
but that shore they never reached, till after ' the sufferings of Christ'—the
outpouring of the blood of the new covenant. Then the saints on earth and
in heaven '
received the end of their faith, even the salvation of their souls.^
" Were not the Old Testament saints horn of God till the times of the
ne\)r covenant ?" Answer. No ; for Christ was the '
first-bom' among all his
brethren ;
(Rom. 8: 29 ;)
'
the head of the body, the church ; the hegin-
ning, the first-horn from the dead.^ Col. 1: 18. The saints that lived before
his manifestation, Avere heirs of a future sonsliip ; i. e., they had the prom-
ise of God that they should be made partakers of the divine nature at a
future time. Thcj vfere ihns pros2:^ectively 'children;' but experimentally
they were 'servants,^ and did not receive the spirit of adoption till the intro-
duction of the Christian dispensation. All this is plainly set forth in the
Mowing passage ;
—' The heir, as long as he is a child, differeth nothing
SALVATION FROM BIN. 153
from a servant, though he be lord of all ; but is under tutors and govsmors,
until the time appointed of the father. Even so we, when we were children,
were in bondage under the elements of the world. But when thefullness of
the time was come, God sent forth his Son, made of a woman, made under
the law, to redeem them that were under the law, that we might receive the
adoption of sons. And because ye are sons, God hath sent forth the spirit
of his Son into your hearts, crying, Abba, Father. Wherefore thou art no
more a servant, but a son.' Gal. 4: 1—7. The line of division between the
servant dispensation, and the son dispensation, clearly lies where God sent
his Son into the world, and, after his suiFermgs, poured out the Holy Spirit.
In denying that the Old Testament saints were born of God, we must not
be understood as denying that they had any religion. It appears by the
passage above quoted, that there are tivo distinct stages in religious experi-
ence, in the first of which men may properly be called servants of God, while
yet they are not sons. It is important that this distinction should be clearly
seen, and constantly kept in view. We admit, and t^ach, that the Old Tes-
tament saints were servants of God in the ages before Christ, and that they
became sons at his coming.
" But what is the difference between servants and sons ? Did not the
Old Testaments saints love God ?" Answer. Yes ; and so, many servants
love and honor their masters, while yet there is no vital union, no Uood-
relationship between them. So there was no vital union between God and
man, till Christ came in the flesh. Abraham was called the friend of God,
and he doubtless loved God as a man loves his friend ; but it is not said in
sciipture, and it is not true, that Christ was hi him—that he dwelt in Gody
a7id God in him. This spiritual indwelUng was ' hid from ages and from
generations,' and was manifested only after the mission of Christ. Col. 1:
26, 27. It is this that brings men into hlood-relationship to God, so that
they are entitled to the name of '
sons of God.'
" It is written, 'Every one that loveth is horn of God.^ 1 John 4: 7. You
admit that the Old Testament saints loved God ; does it not necessarily fol-
low that they were born of God ?" Answer. No ; for while we admit that
they loved God as a man loves his friend, we deny that they loved him 'with
all their heartf and this is the only kind of love that is approved by the law.
Any measure of love short of this, however useful it may be in its external
effects, and as a preparation for ultimate holiness, is not love in a legal point
of view, and is not the love which John had in mind when he said, ' he that
loveth is born of God ;'
for he subsequently defines the love which constitutes
men sons of God, thus—' God is love, and he that dwelleth in love, dtvelleth
in God and God in him.^ Ver. 16. Here it appears that the love of which
John is speaking is not a friendly feeling originating in a man's own heart,
but the love of God 'shed abroad in the heart by the Holy Ghost ;'—it is love
which man can never manufacture by the working of his own will, but which
must be attained by dwelling in God, who alone loves with the strength re-
quired by the law. This kind of love was not in the world, till Christ recon-
ciled and identified the divine and human natures.
" But were not 'the Old Testament saints partakers of the Holy Spirit ?'*
154 SALVATION FROM SIK.
Answer. They were, in an inferior sense. The relation which they sustain^
ed to God, of servants or friends, did not exclude them from his favorable
regard, and from liis spiritual blessing. There was undoubtedly such fellow-
sliip of spirit between them and God, as may exist between friends. They
were instructed, guided, and comforted by the Holy Spirit. But this com-
munion was not radical enough to make them one with God. They were
affianced, but not married. Their fellowship with God was not continuous^
and as compared with that which is given by the new covenant, was external.
It could not be said of them, that they dwelt in God and God in them. It
is evident that they were not partakers of the same power of the Holy Spirit,
as that given under the Christian dispensation, from the following passage
' In the last day, that great day of the feast, Jesus stood and cried, saying,
If any man thirst, let him come unto me and drink. He that beheveth on
me, as the scripture hath said, out of his belly shall flow rivers of living water.
But this spake he of the Spirit, w^hich they that believe on him should receive ;
for the Holy Crhost was not yet given ^ because that Jesus was not yet glo-
rified.' John T: 3T—39.
The Old Testament saints had enough of the Spirit's influence to give them
that hopeful faith which we have described. Still it is true, that the prin-
cipal moral influence under which they lived was tlie law ; and ' the law
made nothing perfect.' Heb. 7: 19. Indeed it was not the design of the law
to save men from sin, but simply to keep them within the reach of the ulti-
mate spiritual agency of Christ ;
just as the sheepfold is not intended to wash
the sheep, but to keep them within such bounds that the shepherd can take
them and wash them himself. So far as the law produced any direct effect
on moral character, it increased rather than diminished sin. It ' entered
THAT the offence might abound.'' Rom. 5: 20. This effect was nevertheless
subservient to the general design of the legal dispensation, which was io pre-
pare men for the subsequent spiritual dispensation ; since the law, in aggra,-
vating sin, ripened conviction^ and so made men sensible of their need of an
almighty Saviour. The preparatory character of the legal dispensation is set
forth in the following passage ;
—' Before faith came, we were kept binder the
law^ shut up unto the faith which should afterwards be revealed. Wherefore
the law was our schoolmaster to bring us to Christ, that we might be justified
hj faith. But after that faith is come, we are no longer under a schoolmas-
ter ; for ye are all the children of God by faith in Christ Jesus.' Gal. 3:
23—26.
We conclude, from this view of the condition of the Old Testament saints,
that their sins cannot be pertinently alleged as objections to the doctrme of
salvation from sin.
III. The sins of Christ's disciples, during his personal minis-
try, IRRELEVANT.
AVe are not yet past the difficulties of our doctrine. The objector may still
allege, that sin remamed in ' the saints' after the coming of Christ. It is
manifest that the disciples, while Christ was with them personally, were not
free from sin. They exhibited a hasty and bigoted zeal, in proposing to call
fire from heaven to consume their opposcrs. Luke 9: 54.' Carnal ambition
SALVATION FROM SIN.
"
155
tind childish rivalry appeared among them. Luke 9: 46. At the cross they
all forsook their master ; and Peter, the boldest and most devoted of them,
thrice denied him with cursing and oaths. ' All this shows (the objector
may say) that salvation from sin did not come into the world with the coming
of Christ.' We admit the facts, but deny the inference. In order to show
that the sins of the disciples during the personal ministry of Christ, have no
force as objections to our doctrine, we will now bring to view more distinctly
than we have yet done, the process by which salvation from sin is effected,
and ascertain more exactly when the Christian dispensation commenced.
The gospel is '
the power of God and the wisdom of God.' 1 Cor. 1: 24.
In other words, salvation is effected by two agencies, viz., the spirit and the
truth. The Spirit is the living agent in the work, and the truth is its instrvr
ment. 2 Thess. 2: 13. IPet.l: 22, &c. Now the question is, at w'/ia^ ifme
in the history of Christ's mission, were these two agencies, in the gospel sense,
introduced and apphed ? We grant that partial measures of the Spirit and
the truth were given to men in all ages. Yet it is true in an important sense
that '
grace and truth came [only] by Jesus Christ ;'
(John 1: 17;) so that
the question is pertinent and intelligible—When was the Spirit and truth
peculiar to the Christian dispensation^ given to mankind f We have al-
ready seen a plain mtimation in the passage quoted from 1 Pet. 1:, that the
gospel of present salvation went forth subsequently to * the sufferings of
Christ."* Ver. 11. That gospel is also specially characterized by the fact that
it was ' preached iviih the Holg Ghost sent down from heaven.' Ver. 12. We
know that the Holy Ghost as promised for the '
last days,' was not sent down
from heaven till after the ^sufferings of Christ.' 'The Holy Ghost was not
yet given, [i. e. during the personal ministry of Christ,] because that Jesus
was not yet glorified.^ John 7: 39. ' When he ascended up on high, he led
captivity captive, and [having thus secured a channel for his spiritual power]
gave gifts unto men.' Eph. 4: 8. 'If I go not away'' said Jesus, '
the Com-
forter, [i. e. the spirit of the Christian dispensation] will not come unto you
but if I depart, I will send him unto you.' John 16: 7. Thus it is plain
that the spiritual agent of salvation which Christ came to give the world, was
not in the world at the time when the disciples were guilty of the sins alleged
against them.
Neither were they at that time in possession of the truth by which salvation
is effected. The death and resurrection of Christ are the great facts em-
ployed in the salvation of souls. These are the things ' reported ' in the
gospel^—the instruments of the Holy Spirit. ' Brethren,' says Paul, '
I
declare unto you the gospel, which I preached to you, which also ye have
received, and wherein ye stand ; hyivhich also ye are saved. [What is that
gospel ? The apostle answers :] I delivered unto you, first of all, that
which I also received, how that Christ died for our sins, according to the
scriptures ; and that he w^as buried, and that he rose again the third day,
according to the scriptures.' 1 Cor. 15: 1—4. Accordingly, the same
apostle charges Timothy to remember the resurrection as the principal matter
of his gospel, (see 2 Tim. 2: 8,) and makes belief in the resurrection the
very basis of salvation. Rom. 10: 9,. In fact Paul's gospel -was brieJBiy this :
156 SALVATION FROM SIN.
* Christ died, rose from the dead, ascended on high, and sent forth the Holy
Spirit. By that Spirit we are baptized into Christ and made partakers of
his spiritual condition ; so that hehig crucified with him, we are dead to sin^
and having risen with him, we live to holiness,^ See Rom. 6: 1, &c., 2 Cor.
6: 14—16, Eph. 1: 19. Now it is evident that this gospel could not be
preached, until Christ had died and risen. Even if the Holy Spirit had
been given before, it would not have had its instruments. The facts neces-
sary to salvation were not in existence.
It is manifest that Christ did not enter lapon his office as a savior from sin
till after his death, from a great variety of such passages as the following
'Though he were a son, yet learned he obedience by the things which he
suffered ; and being Tnade perfect, [ i. e. by the death of the cross,] he he-
came the author of eternal salvation to all them that obey him.' Heb. 5: 8, 9.
' Wliere a testament is, there must also of necessity be the death of the tes-
tator: for a testament is of force after men are dead: otherwise it is of no
strength at all while the testator liveth.' Heb. 9: 16, 17. In accordance
with the doctrine of these passages, Chri&t speaks of the ' new covenant,' or
what is the same thuig, the covenant of salvation from sin, as being '
in his
blood,'' (Luke 22: 20,) and intimates that his blood must be shed, before
men could partake of the blessings of that covenant.
The sins, then, of the disciples, before the death of Christ, stand on the
same ground with the sins of the Old Testament saints. They occurred be-
fore the Christian dispensation began ; i. e. before the introduction and appli-
cation of the great agencies of salvation, viz., the Spirit of adoption, (see
Gal. 4: 6,) and the truth concemmg the death and resurrection of Christ.
We must look to the period subsequent to the day of Pentecost, for test-
examples of the nature and extent of Christian salvation.
That the disciples were not Christians in the proper sense of that term,
during Christ's personal ministry, is evident from the language Christ used
toward Peter. In one instance he called him Satan, (Mark 8: 33,) and in
another instance he said to him, ' When thou art converted, strengthen thy
brethren,' (Luke 22: 32,) implying that he was not then converted.
What has been already said of the condition of the Old Testament saints,
as servants under the law, and heirs of the future blessings of the gospel,
may be applied, without any essential alteration, to the condition of the dis-
ciples before the day of Pentecost.
IV.. The. sins of believers, during the apostolic age, irrelevant.
Finally it nrny be objected to our doctrine, that the saints of the apostohc
age, though they lived after the death and resurrection of Christ and the
effiision of the Holy Spirit, and were therefore certainly subjects of the
Christian dispensation, did nevertheless commit sin. This objection is more
pertinent and formidable than any that have gone before. We come to the
issue now on gospel ground. The apostolic age is certainly the period,
where the question whether the gospel gives salvation from sin in this world,
is finally to be tried. We admit, if it can be shown that none of the saints
of that age were saved from sin, our doctrine, by the test of experience, is
proved false. And on the other hand we msist, if it can be shown that anyt
SALVATION FROM SIN. 157
in that age were saved from sin, by the same test our doctrine is proved
true. Dismissing from our minds, as irrelevant, the history of the saints of
all ages before, and of all ages since, we will now bring the gospel to the
test of the experience of the primitive church.
In many cases, the power of an agency is not to be estimated by its ?//7i-
mediate effects. The healing efficacy of medicine, for instance, is not to be
judged by the symptoms which it produces instantly after being taken. We
must wait till it has had time sufficient for a legitimate operation. We affirm
that the gospel is a medicine competent to the complete cure of sin. That
medicine (at least the principal element of it) was given to the primitive
church on the day of Pentecost. But it does not necessarily follow that on
the day of Pentecost, or within any very short period afterwards, it exhibi-
ted its full efficacy. The process by which full salvation is effected, is one
that requires time, because it is not merely a spiritual operation, but an ex-
hibition and application of truth. The office of the Comforter is to ' take of
the things of Christ and show them unto'* believers. John 16: 14. On the
day of Pentecost it hegan its work, but it did not immediately show the dis-
ciples all the things of Christ. They then entered the school of the Holy
Spirit, but they did not graduate in one day. They were evidently then,
and for a long time afterwards, in a great measure, ignorant of the true
nature of the kmgdom of Christ. It was ten years after the day of Pente-
cost, before they understood that they were at liberty to preach to the Gen-
tiles, though Christ expressly commissioned them to * teach ail nations.* In
many other cases, the things which he had spoken to them, they did not ap-
prehend at once, even after the Comforter had come, but they were ' brought
to their remembrance' from time to time ; e. g.. Acts 11: 16. Their intro-
duction to the truth of the gospel was progressive, and it began with the
most simple external rudiments. They preached at first the death of Christ
as a reason for repentance, and his resurrection as proof of his Messiahship ^
but there is no reason to believe that they perceived the deep spiritual mean-
ing and efficiency of those great facts of the gospel.
It cannot be repeated too often, that salvation from sin is effected by the
spiritual application of the death and resurrection of Christ. Believers, be-
holding these facts by the illumination of the Holy Spirit, receive the assim--
Hating impress of them. Christ's death becomes their death, and his resur-
rection their resurrection. Thus they die to sin and live to God. Until
these facts are thus apprehended, the truth of the gospel has not had itg*
operation, though the Sjpirit of the Christian dispensation may have been
received. Let us look at a specimen of Paul's preaching on this point.—
' Know ye not,' says he, '
that so many of us as were baptized [i. e. by the
Holy Spirit] into Jesus Christ, were baptized into his death ? Therefore-
we are buried with him by baptism into death, that like as Christ was raised-
from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so w^e also should walk in*"
ne^vness of life. For if we have been planted together in the hkeness of his-
death, we shall be also in the likeness of his resurrection : [this would not
follow if the apostle was speaking of water baptism :] knowing this, that our
old man is crucified with him, that the hody of sin might he destroyed^ that
158 SALVATION FROM Sm.
henceforth we sJiould not serve sin: for he that is dead is freedfrom sin.
Now if we be dead with Christ, we beheve that we shall also live with him
knowing that Christ, being raised from the dead, dieth no more ; death hath
no more dominion over him. For in that he died, he died unto sin once :
but in that he liveth, he liveth unto God. Likewise reckon ye also your-
selves to be dead indeed imto sin, hut alive unto God through Jesus Christ
our Lord. Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal bodies, that ye should
obey it in the lusts thereof: neither yield ye your members as instruments of
imrighteousness unto sin : but yield yourselves unto God, as those that are
aUve from the dead, and your members as instruments of righteousness unto
God. For sin shall not have dominion over you.^ Rom. 6: 3—14. Here
we have Paul's gospel '
Christ crucified, the power of God unto salvation'
from sin. But is it not evident that the truths exhibited in this passage, are
among the deepest of '
the deep things of God'—spiritual problems, the
solution of which would naturally engage the primitive church a long time ?
It is certainly supposable—indeed Paul's language plainly implies—that be-
lievers might have been baptized into Christ, long before they were aware
that their baptism involved death to sin, and resurrection to holiness. The
apostle addresses them, as persons who had taken the medicine of salvation,
but had not digested it and realized its legitimate operation. Though they
were baptized into Christ, they had not reached that radical spiritual identity
with him, by which the body of sin is destroyed. The Holy Spirit was upon
them, but had not yet pervaded them. Accordingly Paul, as a servant of
the Holy Spirit, held up before them the things of Christ, viz., his death,
and resurrection, exhorting them to reckon themselves identified with him,
that so they might realize his victory over sin.
Interesting as the inquiry is, we cannot perhaps determine at present,
exactly at what period in the history of the primitive church, these deep
salvation-truths were manifested to the saints. But we may safely assume
that it was long after the day of Pentecost. All the evidence there is in the
case, goes to show that Paul first apprehended and preached salvation from
sin, by spiritual identity with the death and resurrection of Christ. His
writings alone present an extended and systematic exposition of that salvar
tion. If it was given to him, first to know and preach the '
mystery of
godh'ness'—Christ in the saints, crucified and risen,—then we must reckon
the beginning of salvation from sin, from his ministry; and he was not
called to faith and apostleship, till long after the day of Pentecost.
However this may be, it is sufficient for our purpose to assume, (what we
believe the evidence and reasoning before us authorize us to assume,) that
the development of the truth of the gospel in the primitive church after
the day of Pentecost, was progressive ; that it began with external rudiments,
«,nd, proceeding inward, reached the deep -spiritual mysteries of the kingdom
of God which contain the power of salvation, only at an advanced period of
the apostolic age. With these principles in view, it is obvious that the
only fair way of judging the power of the gospel, is to look for test-examples
to a period later than the day of Pentecost, and to that class in the primitive
church who had received the truth of Christ in the maturity of its develop-
ment.
B-ALVATION FROM SIN'. 159
V. HoLmESS ACTUALLY ATTAINED BY SOME IN THE APOSTOLIC AGE.
Admitting as we freely do, that in the early days of the apostolic age, sin
still had place in the church ; admitting that years after the effusion of the
Spirit, Teter was to be blamed,' and James w^as obhged to say, ' in many
things we offend all;' still w-e maintain that the time came at last when they
that continued in Christ's word, reached the mighty truth of the atonement,
and by it were '
made free'—that Christianity, when its power was fully re-
vealed, '
made an end of sin and brought in everlasting righteousness.' We
are fully sustained in this position by the 1st Epistle of John. That epistle
was among the latest writings of the New Testament, and as such, is just
the testunony we need to determine what was the power of Christianity^
when its fruit was ripe. Taking that epistle by itself, disencumbered as it
ought to be of the experience of Jewish and semi-Christian saints, it is im-
possible to avoid the conviction, that the theoretical and practical standard
of religion there exhibited was perfect holiness. John lived to see the
full Hght of that day of righteousness, which began to dawn when Christ
came into the world. 'The darknessj'
said he, Hs past, and the true light
now shineth.^ 1 Epist. 2: .8. What were the discoveries which he made in
the broad daylight of Christianity ? Let us hear his own testimony. '
This
is the message which we have heard of him and declare unto you, that God
is light, and in him is no darkness at all. If we say that we have fellowship
with him, and walk in darkness, we lie, and do not the truth ; but if we walk
in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship one with another, and
the blood of Jesus Christ his Son cleanseth us from all sin.' 1: 5—7.
' Hereby do we know that we know him, if we keep his commandments.
He that saith, I know him, and keepeth not his commandments, is a liar,
and the truth is not in him.' 2: 3, 4. *
Now are we the sons of God ; and
it doth not yet appear what we shall be ; but we know that when he shall
appear, we shall be like liim ; for we shall see him as he is. And every man
that hath this hope in him, purifieth himself, even as he is pure. Whosoever
committeth sin transgresseth also the law : for sin is the transgression of the
law. And ye know that he was manifested to take away our sins ; and in
him is no sin. Whosoever ahideth in him sinneth not : whosoever sinneth,
hath not seen him, neither known him. Little children, let no man deceive
you : he that doeth righteousness, is righteous, even as he is righteous. He
that committeth sin, is of the devil ; for the devil sinneth from the beginnmg.
For this purpose the Son of God was manifested that he might destroy the
works of the devil. Whosoever is horn of Q-od doth not commit sin; for
his seed remaineth in him ; and he cannot sin, because he is born of God.
In this the children of God are manifest, and the children of the devil
whosoever doeth not righteousness, is not of God, neither he that loveth not
his brother.' 3: 2—10. *
Herein is our love made perfect, that we may
have boldness in the day of judgment : because as he is, so are we in this
world.'' 4: 17. ' We know that whosoever is horn of God sinneth not ; but
he that is begotten of God keepeth himself, and that wicked one touchetb
him not.' 5: 18. If this is not Perfectionism, we know not. how, by any
human language, Perfectionism can be expressed.
160 SALVATION FROM SIN.
"We are aware that all this testimony—^the very burden of the whole epis-
tle—is counterbalanced in many minds by one little text that occurs in the
first chapter, viz., ^If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the
tvutli is not in us."* 1: 8. But a candid survey of the context cannot but
satisfy any discerning person, that this text was not designed to militate
against the doctrine of salvation from sin. Let us look at what goes before it.
The apostle, having entered into full fellowship with Christ's victory, in ad-
vance of the mass of the church, turns toward those who are following him,
and announces the consequences of that fellowship. ' This then is the mes-
Bage that we have heard of him and declare unto you, that God is light, and
in him is no darkness at all. If we say we have felloAvship with him, and
walk in darkness, we lie, and do not the truth. If we walk in the hght, as
he is in the Hght, we have fellowship one with another, and the blood of
Jesus Christ his Son cleanseth us from all sin."* Ver. 5, 7. Perfect holi-
ness, then, is the result of the fellowship which he professes to have entered
into himself, and which he proposes to them. He next proceeds to state the
terms of admission to that fellowship ; and first, he bars out the self-righteous
' If we say ive have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us.'
In other words :
' Jesus Christ proposes to cleanse us from all sin. Now if
we say Ave have no sin to be cleansed from—if, before availing ou7'selves of
his saving power, we rest in our own innocence, and deny our need of his
salvation,—we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us.' Then comes
the alternative : If Ave confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us
our sins, and to demise us from all unrighteousness.'' It is obvious that the
confession in this verse is antithetical to the denial in the verse before, and
that both are referable to persons in the same stage of experience. But the
confession certainly is represented as preceding that forgiveness which Christ
offers to sinners. Of course the denial is to be referred to those who have
not yet accepted Christ's offer. The apostle supposes two ways in which his
message may be treated. 1. Some may say they have no sin, and therefore
have no need of salvation from sin ; these he condemns as self-deceivers.
2. Others may acknowledge their sin and need of salvation ; to these he
promises pardon and perfect hohness. The verse in question is guarded
from perversion by plain declarations standing immediately before and after
it, that Christ proposes to cleanse those who receiA^e him, 'from all siii—
from all unrighteousness.^ Its simple object manifestly is to assert the
universal sinfulness of mankind without Christ, and to cut off (as Paul does
in the first part of the epistle to the Romans) the hopes of those who en-
trench themselves in their OAvn righteousness. We think it not uncharitable
to say that they who persist in construing this verse as opposed to the doc-
trine of salvation from sin, and in regarding it as sufiicient to offset all the
plain assertions, scattered through the whole epistle, that perfect holiness is
the only standard of true Christianity, belong to that class of persons Avho
' strain at a gnat, and swallow a camel.'
But we need not rely exclusively on the 1st epistle of John for proof that
the gospel, in its mature development, gave full salvation from sin. If our
theory conccrmng the progressive nature of the spiritual experience of the
SALVATION FROM SIN. 161
primitive churcli is correct, we may naturally expect, in examining the rec-
ords of that church, to find, after the period when the great salvation truths
concerning the death and resurrection of Christ began to be seen and preach-
ed, evidence of the existence of two distinct classes of believers. While the
mass of the church, and especially the new converts who were added to it
from time to time, might yet be in a carnal state, not having apprehended
the truth that makes free from sin, there might still be a class of older and
more spiritual believers, who had entered into full fellowship with Christ, and
thus had attained perfect holiness. In the writings of Paul we find proof
that this was actually the case. '
We speak wisdom,' says he, ' among them
that Sire 2^erfect.^ 1 Cor. 2: 6. It appears by what follows that he uses the
word perfect in this case to describe those who had attained complete spirit-
uality, i. e. had overcome the flesh, and were in full fellowship with Christ.
^ The natural man,' he says a few verses after, '
receiveth not the things of
the Spirit of God : for they are foolishness to him : neither can he know them,
because they are spiritually discerned. But he that is spiritual [this is the
class whom the apostle calls perfect,~\
judgeth all things, yet he himself is
judged of no man. For who ha^th known the mind of the Lord, that he may
instruct him ? But we have the onind of Christ.^ Ver. 14—16. We per-
ceive by this passage, that there was actually a class in the primitive church,
and Paul was one of them, who were above human judgment, and had the
mind of Christ. It is evident that they were perfectly hol^, and that this is
the sense in which they were perfect and spiritual, from the contrast which
follows : —' And I brethren could not speak unto you as unto spiritual, but
as unto carnal, even as unto babes in Christ. I have fed you with milk,
and not with meat : for hitherto ye were not able to bear it, neither yet now
are ye able ; for ye are yet carnal. For whereas there is among you envy-
ing, and strife, and dissensions, are ye not carnal, and walk as menT Chap.
3: 1—3. Thus the perfection of Paul and of those among whom he spoke
wisdom, stands opposed to the imperfection of those who were yet subject to
sinful passions ; it is therefore perfection of holiness. The following are in-
stances of the use of the words, spiritual and perfect, in the same way.
' Brethren if a man be overtaken in a fault, ye which are spiritual restore
such an one in the spirit of meekness.' Gal. 6: 1. ' Let us therefore, as
many as be perfect, be thus minded.' Phil. 3: 15. However carnal then
the primitive church may have been as a mass, and in its early days, it is
manifest that in Paul's time there was a class within it who were properly
denominated j9e?/ec^. It is also manifest from what we have before said, that
this class became more and more numerous and distinct, as the harvest time
of the apostolic age approached, till at last, when John wrote his epistles,
Perfectionism was fully developed, and had become the acknowleged stand-
ard of Christian experience.
Thus we have shown, first, that salvation from sin, present and future,
was the great object of the mission and sacrifice of Christ ; secondly, that
the sins of the Old Testament saints cannot fairly be adduced as evidence
a^gainst this doctrine, because they were committed before Christ came into
20
162 SALVATION FROM SIN.
the world ; thirdly, that the sins of the disciples during Christ's personal
ministry, cannot be so adduced, because they were committed before the
death and resurrection of Christ, and the efiusion of the Holy Spirit
fourthly, that the sins of many in the primitive church after the day of Pen-
tecost, cannot be so adduced, because they were committed before the truth
concerning Christ's death and resurrection was fully developed and applied
and fifthly, that according to the testimony of Paul and John, Christianity
m its maturity, did actually make believers perfectly holy in this world.
VI. Paul an example of salvation from all sin.
In support of the general argument which we have presented, we will now
adduce an individual instance of perfect holiness. And our specimen shall
be the apostle Paul. It has already been seen that he belonged to the class
of those who were called perfect. By a more particular examination of the
testimony concerning him, we propose to show that he was saved from sin in
this world. For this purpose, we will in the first place notice and explain
several passages in which he is said to have confessed sin ; secondly, answer
the specific charges commonly made against him ; and thirdly, produce pos-
itive proof that he was holy, from his own testimony.
I. Paul's supposed confessions.
(1.) In the seventh chapter of Romans the apostle says : —' I am carnal,
sold under sin ; for what I would, that do I not ; but what I hate, that do I.
To will is present with me ; but how to perform that which is good I find
not. ... wretched man that I am ! who shall deliver me from the body
of this death ?' Eom. 7: 14—24. This passage, taken by itself, would
seem to be a very explicit confession of sin. Indeed it is a confession of un-
mitigated, all-controlling depra^dty. If it is to be admitted as a description
of Paul's Christian experience, it evidently proves that he was far below
even modern Christians in spiritual attainments, or at least in profession
for the very lowest standards of the most fashionable creeds make some de-
cree of righteousness the test of Christian character ; whereas, according to
the above confession, Paul was complei^ely carnal, a prisoner of sin bound
hand and foot ; utterly unable to perform any good thing. He does not
say with modern imperfectionists, that he is occasionally overcome by sin,
bvt that he is ' sold under sinJ Most persons admit that the hard saying
of John in 1 Epis. 8: 8, means as much as this—that '
he that committeth
ski habitually^ is of the devil.' But that text, even thus reduced, gives
no quarter to this experience of Paul, for he confesses himself uninterrupt-
edly sinful. Before consenting to the intolerable conclusion that Paul was
* a child of the devil,' the reader we think will be willing to examine critically
the context and scope of Rom. 7: 14—24.
The previous doctrine of the epistle concerning the law, is set forth in the
following passages :
' By the deeds of law, shall no flesh be justified in his
sight; for by the law is the knowledye of sin.^ Chap. 3: 20. '
If they which
are of the law be heirs, faith is made void, and the promise made of none
effect ; because the law worketh wrath.^ 4: 14, 15. '
The law entered that
the offense might abound.'' 5 : 20. In accordance with these views of the
SALVATION FROM SIN. 168
effect and design of the law, in the sixth chapter the apostle closes his expo-
sition of salvation from sin by the gospel, with the following declaration
' Sin shall not have dominion over you ; for ye [i. e. as many as were baj:-
tized into Christ, see ver. 3] are not under the laiv, hut under grace f (6:
14 ;) as though, if they were under law there would be no hope of deliver-
ance from sin. These are the views which are discussed and fully explained
in the seventh and a part of the eighth chapter. The substance of the first
six verses of the seventh chapter may be stated thus : —' The law is our
husband while we are in the flesh, and the only offspring of this first mar-
riage is sin. Christ is our husband, when we are baptized into him, and the
offspring of this second marriage is righteousness. We cannot have both
husbands at once. Death to the law must precede marriage with Christ.
Accordingly, we that believe, are dead to the law, by baptism into the death
of Christ.' In the 7th verse the apostle commences a vindication of the law.
In view of the foregoing doctrine, that sin is the fruit of marriage with tho
law, some might say that the law itself is sin. But Paul insists that the
evil nature of the offspring in this case is not to be attributed to the husband,
but to the wife. The law is holy, just, and good, but the subjects of it being
filled with the spirit of sin, only make the law an occasion of aggravated in-
iquity. Ver. 13. Here commences the disputed paragraph, vers. 14—25:
^For we know that the law is spiritual ; but I am carnal, sold under sin.
.... The good that I would, I do not ; but the evil which I would not,
that I do,' &c. It is plain that the apostle is here giving the reason for the
fact that the law produces sin. That reason is the opposition which exists
between a carnal nature and the law. A marriage betvfeen them brhigs forth
sin and death, because the parties are '
unequally yoked.' '
The law is
spiritual, but I am carnal ; of course the fruit of a union between me and
the law must be strife and irritation, resulting in aggravated sin and ultimate
despair on my part, though the law is holy, just and good.' Paul's supposed
confession, then, is actually a description of the misery of a soul married to
the law. Now we know that a person in that state is not a Christian ; for,
to be married to the law and to Christ at the same time, would be that very
spiritual polygamy which in the first verses of the chapter is expressly con-
demned. Moreover in the 4th, 5th, and 6th verses, the apostle plainly and
repeatedly speaks of his own state, and that of those whom he addressed, as
opposite to the law state which he afterwards describes. '
Ye are become dead
to the law by the body of Christ. When we tvere [past tense] in the flesh,
the motions of sins, which were by the law, [i. e. those very motions which
are described in verses 14—25,] did work in our members to bring forth
fruit unto death. But now tve are deliveredfrom the laiv^ &c. Paul, then,
was not, at the time he wrote the epistle, under the law, and therefore did
not describe his experience as a Christian, in the paragraph in question. He
uses the present tense in that paragraph, because he is not relating historical
facts, but is illustrating a perpetual principle, without reference to time.
The present tense and first person are frequently used in such illustrations,
because they are convenient and forcible. The actual experience of Paul
as a Christian, is fully exhibited in the eighth chapter, which begins thus—
164 SALVATION FROM SIN.
* There is therefore now NO condemnation to them which are in Christ Je-
sus!' The intelligent reader will perceive, by examining this chapter and
comparmg it with the seventh, that the peace of the second marriage is the
exact reverse of the misery of the first.
(2.) The following passage is often quoted as an instance in which Paul
confessed sin: ^
Not as though I had already attained, either were already
perfect : but I follow after, if that I may apprehend that for which also I am
apprehended of Christ Jesus. Brethren, I count not myself to have ajypre-
hended^ &c. Phil. 3: 12, 13. But we shall see by consulting the context,
that Paul is wholly misunderstood by those who take the passage by itself
and construe it as an acknowledgment of rnoral imperfection. In the pre-
ceding verses Paul says, '
I count all things but loss . . . that I may know
him and the poiver of his resurrectmi, and the felloivship of his sufferings^
being made conformable to his death ; if by any means I might attain unto
i^Q resurrection of the dead : [here begins the supposed confession:] not
as though I had already attained, either were already perfect.' It is obvious
that '
the resurrection of the dead^ not perfect holiness, is to be understood
as the object of the verb '
attained' in this sentence ; so that the first clause
certainly is not a confession of sin, but simply of a state of mortality. But
in what sense does Paul say, ^
Not 'as though I were already j?e?/(ecf.^ We
must find an answer by looking back and noticing what he was striving to
attain. He comited all things but loss, that he 'might know the power of
Christ's resurrection, and the fellowship of his siff'erings, being made con-
formable to his death,"* He was not perfect then in this sense, namely, he
had not yet entered into full fellowship with Christ's death and resurrection.
Does this imply that he was a sinner ? If so, it imphes also that Christ
himself was a suiner, before he died and entered into immortality. The
word perfect is used in three instances with reference to Christ, evidently in
the very sense in Avhich it is used in this confession. '
Go, tell that fox,'
said Jesus, '
Behold, I do cures to-day and to-morrow, and the third day I
^h.^\>Q perfected :'
[i. e. by the death of the cross.] Luke 13: 32. 'It
became liim by whom are all things, and for whom are all things, in bringing
many sons unto glory, to make the captain of their salvation per/ec^ through
sufferings.^ Heb. 2: 10. '
Though he were a son, yet learned he obedience
by the things which he suffered ; and being made perfect, he became the
author of eternal salvation to all them that obey him.' Heb. 5: 8, 9. Now
no one supposes that Christ was less than perfectly holy, while he was on
earth. Yet these passages plamly teach that he was in some sense '
made
perfect' by suffering, and consequently that in some sense he was not perfect
till his death. Previous to that event then, he might have said, as well as
Paul, ' Not as though I had already attained, either were already perfect.'
And on the other hand Paul, as well as Christ, "notAvithstanding this confes-
sion, could claim to be in another sense perfect ; as in fact he does a few
verses after, where he says, 'Let us, as many as hQj^erfect, be thus minded.'
The truth is, Paul kncAV he was '
apprehended of Christ' for all that Christ
had himself attained, viz., the resurrection of soul and body ; and though
he was already saved fi'om sin, he did not count himself perfect by full fel-
SALVATION FROM SIN. 165
lowsliip with those sufferings which made Christ perfect, but acknowledged
in opposition to those '
who said the resurrection was past already,' (2 Tim.
2: 18,) that he was yet ' following after,' looking, as he says a few verses
below the passage in question, '
for the Lord Jesus Christ, who shall change
our VILE BODY.' The imperfection w^hich he acknowledges, so far as it re-
lated to spiritual character, was a deficiency, not of holiness, but of experi-
ence. A man cannot learn patience without suifering. Previous to the
requisite suffering, imperfection in this respect is not voluntary but necessary.
It is therefore not a moral, but a physical or natural deficiency, and may be
predicated of one who is perfectly holy, as we have seen it was predicated of
Christ.
(3) We are sometimes referred to 1 Cor. 9: 27, as evidence that Paul
acknowledged imperfection. The passage with its context stands thus:
' I therefore so run, not as uncertainly ; so fight I, not as one that beateth
the air : but I keep under my body, and bring it into subjection ; lest that
hy any means, tvhen I have preached to others, I myself should he a cast-
moay.* It is difficult to see how this can be tortured into any thing like a
confession of sin. On the contrary, it is actually an assertion of faithful-
ness. In order that the passage may accord with the common views of the
seventh chapter of Romans, and with the experience of imperfectionists, it
must be reversed thus :
'
I run uncertainly, I fight as one that beateth the
air, and I do not keep my body under, but am frequentty brought into sub-
jection to it.' The most that can fairly be said of it is, that it indicates the
existence of some fear in the apostle's mind that lie might be a '
castaway.'
But even this is by no means a necessary construction. A soldier in a be-
sieged fortress might say, '
I keep within the walls, lest I should be slain by
the enemies' artillery,' without expressing any fear or suggesting any prob-
abihty that he would actually be slain. .
' -m s .
(4.) Paul's account of the '
thorn m his flesh,' w^hich the Lord gave him,
' lest he should be exalted above measure,' (2 Cor. 12: 7,) is often cited as
a confession of imperfection. It is indeed an acknowledgment of weakness,
and of a certain liability to sin ; which liability however was provided for and
extinguished by the means which God employed in the case. Paul does not
say that he was exalted above measure, but on the contrary, that God took
measures to keep him from being so. Doubtless those measures were sue-
cessful. The thorn in the flesh certainly was not in itself something sinful in
him. It was '
a messenger of Satan' sent, not to lead him into sin, but to
'buffet'' (i. e. to afflict) him. He besought the Lord that it might depart
from him, and the answer was, '
My grace is sufficient for thee : for my
strength is made perfect in weakness.' The thorn then was the harbinger,
not of sin, but of sufficiency and perfection. So thought Paid. '
Most
gladly therefore,' says he, '
will I rather glory in my infirmities, [certainly
not in sin,] that the power of Christ may rest upon me.'
(5.) The following passage is supposed by some to be a confession of
present sinfulness :
' This is a faithful saying, and worthy of all acceptation,
that Jesus Christ came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am chief*
1 Tim. 1: 15. The context plainly shows that the apostle here refers, not
166 SALVATION FROM SIN.
to his character after he became a Christian, but to his wickedness in perse-
cuting the church. See ver. 13. '
Howbeit/ he continues, ' for this cause
I obtained [past tense] mercy, that in me first Jesus Christ might show forth
all long-suffering,' &c. His pre-eminent wickedness in ' breathing out
threatenings and slaughter' against the church, rendered him fit to be an
example of the greatness of God's mercj. In respect to his state as a
Christian, he says just before, that Christ counted him ' faithful ;'
which is
altogether inconsistent with the idea that he was at the same time the chief
of sinners. #-
-%
Thus we have noticed all the passages in Paul's writings which are com-
monly adduced to prove him a smner by his own direct testimony, and we
have found in every one of them proof to the contrary.
As a sequel to this branch of evidence, let the reader take a survey of all
the prayers which Paul represents himself as offering. In almost every
epistle he gives samples of his petitions ; and if he had been habitually as
abundant in confessions of sin as modern imperfectionists, he would certainly
have left some specimens on record. We venture to predict, however, that
nothing of the kind will be found.
II. SPECIFIC CHARGES AGAINST PAUL.
(1.) His contention with Barnabas. The account of this affair is as fol-
lows :
—' Some days after, Paul said unto Barnabas, Lotus go again and visit
our brethren in every city where we have preached the word of God, and
see how they do. And Barnabas determined to take with them John, whose
surname was Mark. But Paul thought it not good to take him with them,
who departed from them from Pamphylia, and went not with them to the
work. And the contention was so sharp between them, that they departed
asunder one from the other : and so Barnabas took Mark, and sailed unto
Cyprus. And Paul chose Silas, and departed, being recommended by the
brethren unto the grace of God.' Acts 15: 36—40. We observe upon this,
in the first place, that there is no certain evidence that either Paul or Barna-
bas sinned. A mere difference of judgment, wisely permitted for the purpose
of separating thein, may have been perfectly consistent with unity of heart.
*
The contention was so sharp between them [not that they abused each other
with words or blows, but] that they departed asunder one from the other,'
and probably by mutual consent, in peace. But we observe further, that
so far as there is any probable proof that either sinned, it goes to impeach
the character of Barnabas only. John, about whom the contention arose,
was Barnabas' nephew, (see Col. 4: 10,) who doubtless was influenced by
partiality for him, as his kinsman, and ' determined to take him with them,'
without first consulting Paul, or heeding his counsel afterwards. No reason
is given for Barnabas' determination ; whereas Paul '
thought it not good' to
take John, because he had once deserted them. It is plain that Paul acted
conscientiously in the matter. Nothing but prejudice or carelessness can
discover the least evidence in these circumstances, that he departed from in-
tegrity ; while candor finds fresh proof of his wisdom and firmness.
(2.) His anathema upon the high priest. '
Paul, earnestly beholding the
SALVATION FROM SIN. 167
council, said, Men' and brethren, I have lived in all good conscience before
God until tliis day. And the high priest Ananias commanded them that stood
by him to smite him on the mouth. Then saith Paul unto him, God shall
smite thee, thou whited wall : for sittest thou to judge me after the law, and
commandest me to be smitten contrary to the law ? And they that stood
by said, Revilest thou God's high priest ? Then said Paul, I wist not,
brethren, that he was the high priest : for it is written, thou shalt not speak
evil of the ruler of thy people.' Acts 23: 1 —5. There was manifestly no
sin in the mistake which Paul made respecting the official character of his
abuser. He acknowledged no sin, though he showed a perfect and manly
readiness to acknowledge a mistake, as well as a conscientious self-possession,
in quoting scripture for the acknowledgment. The chief question is, have we
evidence that he was sinfully ^''^g^J
iii this affair? Admitting that his
words bespeak anger, we assert that he was not '
angry without a cause.^
The unrighteous conduct of the high priest called for righteous indignation.
Anger is not in every case sinful. See Mark 3: 5, Eph. 4: 26. Paul's
accusers must therefore show that he was unreasonably angry. This cannot
be shown from his language in the case. He neither smote the high priest,
nor threatened to smite him. '
Grod shall smite thee, thou whited wall.'
Is this an expression of a revengeful spirit ? It is only a calm and true pre-
diction of the righteous judgment of God. He used the language of Christ
in the severe appellation which he gave the high priest. •
See Matt. 23: 27.
He did not avenge himself, but recognized the truth, that vengeance is the
Lord's.
We may remark in general upon these charges, and upon all others of the
kind, (if others have been made,) that they are mere private judgments,
unsupported by Paul's confession, (who must be supposed to have known his
own character better than his accusers, and to have been ingenuous enough
to confess sin, if he had committed it,) and unsupported by the verdict of
the inspired writers who have recorded the acts for which he is condemned.
Moreover, this method of trying character by private judgment of external
actions, without hearing the defense of the accused, might as fairly be used
to prove sin upon Christ as upon P^ul. The external form of Christ's ac-
tions was, in many cases, far from being lovely—at least to the carnal ap-
prehensions of the Pharisees. Our belief that he was perfectly holy, certainly
is not founded on our perception of the righteousness of every particular
transaction of his life. We never feel that there is any occasion for us to
inquire whether he did right or wrong in this or that particular action—
whether every movement of his body and mind through all his life, was
measured and determined by the rule and plummet of theoretical morality
whether he preached and labored for sinners just exactly as much as he was
able, and never slept the fraction of a second too much or too little. If it
were necessary to go through such a process of scrutiny before we could law-
fully believe that Jesus Christ was perfectly holy, we might well despair of
ever proving that he was the Son of God. But all such questioning is ut-
terly foreclosed, as every man's consciousness must testify, by the simple
fact that Jesus Christ was proved to be the Son of God, by his Father's
168 SALVATION FROM SIN.
power. We reverse the process. Instead of arguing that he was the Son
of God because his external actions were perfectly holy, we argue that his
external actions were perfectly holy because he Avas manifestly the Son of
God, in full fellowship with his Father. Now we insist that Paul's character
ought to be tried by a similar process. If it can be shown that he was in
spiritual union with Christ, it ought to be presumed^ unless full proof to the
contrary is produced, that all his external actions were righteous, and the
' evil surmises' of irresponsible accusers ought to be given to the winds.
III. Paul's views of his own character.
(1.) He asserts his identity with Christ, in such passages as the follow-
ing: '
It pleased God . . . io reveal his Son in me.'* Gal. 1: 15, 16. 'I
am crucified Avith Christ ; nevertheless I live ;
yet not I, but Christ liveth
in me' Gal. 2: 20. 'For me to live is Christ.'' Phil. 1: 21. '
We are
members of his body, of his flesh and of his bones.'' Eph. 5: 30. 'We have
the mind of Christ.' 1 Cor. 2: 16. In accordance with this testimony, he
says that the Galatians received him '
as an angel of God, even as Christ
Jesus;' (Gal. 4: 14;) and instead of rebuking them for man-worship, he
rather censures them for not continuing thus to honor him.
(2.) He plainly asserts his freedom from sin, as the consequence of his
union with Christ, in the following passages :
'
How shall we that are dead
to sin, [i. e. by baptism into Christ's death,] live any longer therein ? Rom.
6: 2. ' The law of the Spirit of life hath made me free from the latv of sin
and death.' Rom. 8: 2. '
Ye are witnesses, and^od also, how holily and
justly and unblamably we behaved ourselves among you that believe.'
1 Thess. 2: 10. '
Griving no offense in any thing, that the ministry be not
blamed : but in all things appi'oving ourselves as the ministers of God, in
much patience, in afflictions, in necessities, in distresses, in stripes, in im-
prisonments, in tumults, in watchings, in fastings. By pureness, by know-
ledge, by long-suffering, by kindness, by the Holy Ghost, by love unfeigned,
by the word of truth, by the power of God, by the aymior of righteousness
on the right hand and on the left.' 2 Cor. 6: 3—7. ' Our rejoicing is this,
the testimony of our conscience that in simplicity and godly sinceiity, not
with fleshly ivisdom, but by the grace of Grod, loe have had our conversation
in the world.' 2 Cor. 1: 12.
(3) His writings, instead of being filled with confessions of sin and un-
faithfulness, every where a]pound with vindications of his oivn conduct, bold
assertions of his righteousness, and appeals fi'om human accusation to the
judgment of God. The following may serve as examples : '
We have
wronged no man, we have defrauded no man.' 2 Cor. 7: 2. 'I think to he
bold against some which think of us as though we walked according to the
flesh ; for though we walk in the flesh, we do not war after the flesh.' 2Cor.
10: 2, 3. ' Our exhortation was not of deceit, nor of uncleanness, nor of
guile : . . . neither at any time used we flattering words, as ye know, nor
a cloak of covotousness ; Qod is untness : nor of men sought we glory, nor
t)f you.' 1 Thess. 2: 3—6. ' Ye know from the fii-st day that I came into
Asia, after what manner I have been with you at all seasons, serving the
Lord with all humility of muid I take you to record this day that I
SALVATION FROM SIN. 169
am pure from the blood of all men.' Acts 20: 18—26. * It is a very small
tiling that I should be judged of you, or of man's judgment He that
judgeth me is the Lord.' 1 Cor. 4: 3—5.
(4.) He constantly proposes his own life as a perfect example for imita-
tion. '
I beseech you,' says he, *
he ye followers of me. For this cause
have I sent unto you Timothy, . . . who shall bring you into remembrance
of my ways which be in Christ.' 1 Cor. 4: 16. 'Be ye followers of me^ as
I also am of Christ.' 1 Cor. 11: 1. ' Brethren, hefolloivers together of me,
and mark them that walk so, as ye have us for an ensample.' Phil. 3: 17.
* Those things which ye have both learned and received, and heard and seen
in me, do ; and the God of peace shall be with you.' Phil. 4: 9. Let the
reader imagine for a moment, how these exhortations would sound in the
mouth of one who was in the condition described in the seventh of Romans.
The last of them would amount to this :
—' Ye have learned and received
(viz. in Rom. 7: 7—25) that I am carnal, sold under sin, doing the evil
that I condemn, and unable to do the good which my conscience enjoins.
Follow me in these things ; live in slavery to sin as I do, and the Crod of
peace shall he with yoiiP
The testimony now before the reader, both negative and positive, should
be weighed in connection with the fact that Paul unreservedly poached ^e?'-
fection to the churches ;
(for examples see 2 Cor. 13: 9—11, 1 Thess. 5:
23, 24 ;) and that he made it the main object of one of his most important
epistles, viz. that to the Hebrews, to exhibit Christianity as a dispensation
of perfect holiness. See Heb. 5: 1, 6: 11—19, 10: 14—19, &c.
In view of all this we must conclude, either that Paul was filled with self-
deception, impenitence, and pride, and that his life was altogether at variance
with the theory which he preached, or that he was a genuine example of
salvation from sin.
VII. Miscellaneous objections to the doctrine of salvation
FROM sin.
Objection 1. * If perfect holiness is attained, there is no further occasion
for repentance.^ Answer. Repentance is genuine only when it results in the
forsaking of sin. That periodical repentance, which implies continuance in
the sins repented of, is most horrible hypocrisy. The doctrine of perfect
holiness does indeed discard this kind of repentance. But it preaches to all
sinners—and that too with a sincerity and vehemence which belong to no
other doctrine—that scriptural repentance, which needs '
not to he repented
of."* 2 Cor. 7: 10. There are things which, though it is very necessary
that they should be done once, ought not to be done the second time. For
instance, it is absolutely necessary that the farmer should plow his field in the
spring. But he would be a very foolish man, who should continue plowing
the same field all summer. So, thorough repentance is essential in the seed-
time of grace, but works of righteousness must follow, or the harvest of
judgment will bring no reward. They who repent all their days, because
repentance 4S good in its season, "^^11 be obhged to say at last, ' The harvest
is past, the summer is ended, and we are not saved.' Paul was a faithful
21
170 SALVATION mOU SIN.
preacher of repentance ;
yet he said to his converts, ^ Leaving the first prin^
ciples of the doctrine of Christ, let us go on to perfection, not laying again
the foundation of repentance from dead works^^
&c. Heb. 6: 1, 2.
Obj. 2. '
Perfect hohness is inconsistent with growth in grace.^ Answer*
This objection is predicated on a false notion of the nature of the perfection
which we advocate* It supposes that one who is perfectly holy, is necessa^
rily free from all infirmity, and has received all the strength and knowledge
that God can impart. Whereas, the reader will perceive, by recurring to
the second and fourth Sections under the head, 'PauVs supposed confessions/
that one may be perfect in holiness^ and yet imperfect in experience^ and
subject to irifirmity^ We mean by perfect holiness, (using the expression in
its lowest sense,) simply thsit purity of heart which gives a good conscience*
This primary state is attainable by mere faith in the resurrection of Christ.
It is in fact the conmiunication of the purity and good conscience of Christ.
It may therefore be received instantaneously, and may exist in us antece-
dently to all external improvement or good works. There is no difficulty in
conceiving that a man may have a clean heart and a gopd conscience, and
yet be very imperfect in regard to his understanding and corporeal faculties
and affections. Suppose a missionary, in urging upon a savage a change of
life, proposes to take him under his own care and thoroughly instruct him m
all the ways of civilization. When the savage embraces the proposal, and
puts himself into the hands of the missionary, he has done all that is now
required of him, and may rightfully have a good conscience. He is a savage
still, in every thing except nis heart; but he is not to be blamed. The
missionary does not condemn him for his uncouth manners, and his obtuse-
ness of intellect. He may now enter upon the course of discipline necessary
to make him in all respects a civilized man, with a self-approving heart.—
By this illustration it may be seen how a behever may be free from sin and
condemnation before God, and yet be but at the entrance of the discipline
necessary to complete sanctification. The difference between the two cases
is altogether in favor of the believer : for whereas the missionary can only
express his approbation of the converted savage by words, Christ gives the
believer his own pure spirit and good conscience, and bears witness not
merely to him, but in him, that his sins are taken away. Between this
perfection of the heart., and that glorified perfection which Christ attained by
the cross, and which Paul set before himself as the hope of his calling, the
way is long and difficult enough to make occasion for all the diligence and
energy which the most laborious legalist can desire. Let the reader judge
for himself whether a good or an evil conscience is most favorable to alacrity
and success in the pursuit of sanctification.
Obj. 3. ' The Christian life is represented in scripture as a warfare,^
Answer. It is indeed a warfare, but not a series of defeats. It is not
necessary that we should be overcome by the devil, in order that we may
resist him. Christ, while he was in the flesh, was engaged in tremendous
conflicts with the powers of darkness ;
yet he was without sin. Paul called
the warfare of his Christian life a *GOOD fight'—an appellation certainly not
befitting such a series of defeats as constitute the warfare of modem profes-
eALVATION FROM SIN. 171
sors of Christianity. Our theory of Christian life, while it equips the
spiritual soldier with a pure heart and a good conscience at the outset, nev-
ertheless does not discharge him from service. To keei? his heart pure and
his conscience good, in the midst of a world of pollution and accusation—to
follow Paul and Christ in the way to the glory of the resurrection—will cost
him many and sore conflicts with his own corrupted propensities, and Avith
' principalities and powers, and spiritual wickedness in high places.' "We
are not of those who imagine that the work of winning the glory of God,
and the rest of heaven, is accomplished in a moment. We believe that all
who are in any stage of spiritual life short of the full resurrection of the body,
have in their own compound nature, two opposing elements, which will war
against each other till that resurrection is attained. '
If Christ be in you,'
says Paul, '
the body is dead because of sin, but the spirit is life because of
righteousness ;' (Rom. 8: 10 ;) and again, '
The flesh lusteth against the
spirit, and the spirit against the flesh ; and these are contrary the one to the
other, so that ye cannot do the things that ye would;' i. e. the desires either
-of the flesh or of the spirit must be mortified. Gal. 5: 17, A Christian is
one who '
walks in the spirit ;'
and the apostle says expressly that such
^ shall not fulfill the lusts of the flesh.'' Nevertheless the lusts of the flesh
will remain as long as the body is dead^ and of course the conflict betweeii
the flesh and the spirit will remain. An enemy may remain on the borders
of an empire, and trouble the inhabitants with much hard fighting, and yet
never conquer the empire, or even win a battle.
Obj. 4. '
I have seen an end of all perfection, but thy commandment is
exceeding broad.'* Answer. 1. The assertion in the first clause of this
quotation, however true it may have been in the mouth of David, is not truo
in the mouths of modern objectors to the doctrine of holiness. Even though
they may find an end to the perfection of all the Old Testament saints, and
though they may think they have seen an end of the perfection of all modern
claimants of holiness, yet they have not seen an end of the perfection of
Jesus Christ, of Paul, or of the mature part of the primitive church,
2. Though we should admit that the law is as broad as the objector conceives
it to be^ yet we might safely say that the grace of God in Christ Jesus is
still broader. But some things may be said to show that the law, as viewed
through the new covenant, is not so '
exceeding broad' as to place any very
formidable difficulty in the way of one who wishes to be holy. A thing may
be ' exceeding broad' in one view of it, and exceedingly narrow in another.
For instance a tree, surveyed from a point abovo its branches, would present
a wide circle of unconnected leaves and twigs, which the inspector might well
despair of ever being able to reckon and minutely describe. While the
same tree, viewed from a station where its trunk could be seen, would be a
very simple object, easily comprehended by the mind, and easily described.
So the law, viewed in all the details of its external development and with all
the ceremonial additions of the Jewish economy, is vast, complicated, in«
comprehensible, presenting a hopeless task to the will, and a perpetual
stumbling-block to the conscience. But the same law, viewed in its spiritual
principle, is so simple that a child may comprehend it. It was one maia
172 SALVATION FROM SIN.
object of Christianity to call off the minds and consciences of men from the
branches of the law to its root. Christ condensed all the requirements of the
law and the prophets into the simple rule, ' Whatsoever ye would that men
should do to you, do ye even so to them.' Matt. 7: 12. Paul said, ^He that
loveth another, hath fulfilled the law: for this, Thou shalt not commit adul-
tery, Thou shalt not kUl, Thou shalt not steal. Thou shalt not bear false
witness, Thou shalt not covet ; and if there be any other commandment, it is
hrieflt/ comprehended in this saying. Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself.
Love worketh no ill to his neighbor ; therefore love is the fulfilling of the
law.' Eom. 13: 8—10. And again, 'AH the law is fulfilled in one ivord,
even in this, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself.' Gal. 5: 14. Thus the
law, viewed through the new covenant, instead of being ' exceeding broad,'
is as narrow as one little word, love. The question before the mind of one
who seeks after holiness, is not whether he can duly observe all the ordinan-
ces of the Jewish or Christian ritual, or whether he can immediately perform
all the good works which mpy be conceived of as resulting from the principle
of the law, when it is perfectly developed in external action, but simply
whether he can love. If he does this one thing, the word of God authorizes
liis conscience to be content; for Move is the fulfilling of the law.' This
root of all righteousness, this cure for the conscience, is provided for in the
gospel, not by the application of a written commandment, but by the power
of the Holy Spirit. He that believes, loves, not by the power of his own
will, but because ' the love of God is shed aJjroad in his heart by the Holy
Ghost.' Thus Christ, by first concentrating the whole law into the simple
requirement of love, and then converting that requirement into a spiritual
gift, is ' the end of the law for righteousness to every one thatbelieveth.'
Vni. Directions to those who are seeking salvation from sin.
The gospel offers salvation from sin as a free gift. Of course the first
thing to be done by one who seeks that salvation, is to clear away the rub-
bish of his oivn works. He must heartily repent, not only of his manifest
sins, but of his supposed works of righteousness. All works that are not
the fruit of God's life in the soul are 'dead works,^ utterly loathsome to one
whose eyes are open to spiritual truth. Let the inquirer settle it in his
heart that 'there is none good but one, that is God ;' that the righteousness
of every beuig in the universe, from the highest archangel to the lowest
saint, is the righteousness of God ; and of course that he is not to make him-
self righteous by working, but is to be made righteous by receiving grace ;
and he will see the necessity of setting his face toward the at-one-ment
spiritual union with God, instead of '
doing duty,' will become the object of
his efforts and hopes.
In order to attain this union, its nature must first be clearly ascertained.
We will therefore look at some specimens of Bible language concerning the
condition of those who attained it in the apostolic age. Paul says—' I am
crucified with Christ : nevertheless I live ;
yet not I, but Christ liveth in me.^
Here is the reconcihation embodied—God and man made one. We must not
explain away this testimony, by calling the language figurative. Spirits
can dwell in each other, if bodies cannot. Paul means that the spirit of
SALVATION PROM SIN. 173
Christ (which is the same as Christ himself) actually lived and wrought
righteousness in him. In another place he says, ' If any man have not the
spirit of Christy he is none of his ;' and then immediately adds, ' If Christ
he inyou^ the body is dead because of sin,' &c. ;
(Rom. 8: 9, 10 ;) from
which it is evident, that to have the spirit of Christ, is the same thing as to
have Christ himself indwelling. The church is the 'body of Christ:' and
as a man's life dwells in every member of his body, so Christ dwells in every
member of his church. *
Know ye not your own selves,' says the apostle,
*
how that Christ is in you except ye be reprobates V 2 Cor. 13:5. The
condition, then, for which the inquirer seeks, is one in which he can truly
say—' Christ liveth in me.' The necessary consequence of that condition is
perfect holiness, because Christ is perfectly holy.
The mind must not be embarrassed here by any imagination that a spirit-
ual union with Christ is inconsistent with free agency. The power of uilling
is that which distinguishes a free agent from a machine. Now the presence
of Christ in the soul, instead of taking away or diminishing the power of
willing, greatly increases it. '
God worketh in [believers] to will,' as well
as to do. Their power of willing, therefore, is proportioned, not as in other
men to their own natural energy, but to his omnipotence. The influence of
motives is not inconsistent with free agency. If a man's own will goes with
his acts, he is a free agent, however mighty may be the influences which
persuade him. Christ dwelling in believers, persuades them to righteousness,
not only by external motives, but by spiritual power applied directly to their
will. They are free, because their will is not superseded, but quickened
and actuated by Christ's will.
Moreover, we may appeal to a multitude of admitted facts to prove that
one spirit may dwell in another, and one will actuate another, without inter-
fering with free agency. God dwelt in Christ, and determined all his ac-
tions. And yet was he not free ? Who does not believe that the prophets
were free agents when they '
spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost'?
Was Judas any the less free, because '
Satan entered into him'? There is
not a sincere professor of the common faith of the churches, who is not some-
times conscious of the spiritual control of God. If that control, partially and
occasionally exerted, is consistent with free agency, why may it not become
perfect and perpetual, without making the subjects of it machines ? There
is not a professor in all the churches, whether sincere or not, who does not
expect to be kept from sin in heaven by the power of God. If this is ac-
knowledged to be consistent with free agency, the principle we insist upon is
admitted—Christ may dwell in us and actuate our wills, consistently with our
freedom, here as well as in heaven.
We now come to the main question—How is this union, by which Christ
dwells in the soul, and so saves it from sin, to be effected ? The witnesses
of the New Testament answer with one voice by believing the gospel.
We will expound this answer, by showing, first, what the gospel is ; and,
secondly, what it is to beheve.
I. The gospel is a proclamation issuing from God. Human language and
utterance, the preaching and writings of the apostles, are employed as its
1 74 SALVATION FROM SIN.
vehicles, but in its essence, it is not ' word nor speech, but power,^ It is a
' voice that shakes heaven and earth.' Heb. 12: 26. It is a word of the
same nature as that which ^ commanded the light to shine out of darkness,'
(2 Cor. 4: 6,) which cast out devils, healed the sick, and raised the dead.
It is a spiritual energy, emanating from the Almighty. Whoever then mere-
ly believes certain thoughts atlout the gospel, which are excited in his mind
by reading the Bible, or by hearing a preacher, without discerning the voice
of the spirit of God, cannot be said to believe the gospel. It is only when
the message is received as from G-od, and its spiritual energy is apprehen-
ded, that it is '
the power of God unto salvation.' Rom. 1: 16. 'When ye
received,' says Paul, '
the word of God, which ye heard of us, ye received it
not as the word of meriy hut, as it is in truth, the ivord of €fod, which
effectually/ tvorketh also in you that believe.'' 1 Thess. 2: 13.
But again ; the gospel is a proclamation of G'od''s reconciliation with man
hy the death of Jesus Christ. We need not here speculate upon the exact
nature of the enmity which existed between God and man, before the atone-
ment, nor on the exact mode of the reconciliation. It is sufficient that we
know that the offense and condemnation, which commenced with Adam's
transgression, which came upon all men, and which was increased instead
of diminished by the law, Avas taken away by the sacrifice of the Lamb of
God ; so that ' the free gift came upon all men unto justification of life.' Rom.
5: 11—21. '
God was in Christ, reconciling the world to himself, not im-
puting their trespasses unto them.' 2 Cor. 5: 19.
It must be distinctly understood that the reconciliation which the gospel
thus proclaims is di^fact that has actually taken place, not a proposal from
God conditional on man's repentance and faith. It is a reconciliation on the
part of God, not with believers only, but with the whole race of man. * Christ
IS the propitiation for our sins ; and not for ours only, but also for the sins
of the whole world.' 1 John 2: 2. We do not say that all men are reconciled
to God, but that God is reconciled to all men. The enmity on one side
of the breach is ended. God has forgiven all for Christ's sake.
Accordingly the natural consequences of reconcihation on the part of God,
have extended to all men. The atonement was not a mere formal transac-
tion. It brought the world nigh to God, and he '
poured out his Spirit upon
Mflesh.'' Acts 2: 17. ' The Paraclete' is given not to believers only, but
to the whole world. Its business is to '
convince the world of sin, of
:righteousness, and of judgment.' John 16: 8—11. It is the life of Christ
and that is '
the light that lighteth every man that cometh into the \\:orld.'
It shines in darkness, though the darkness comprehends it not. Jno. 1: 5—9.
^he wicked are not excluded from its influences ; for they are represented as
resisting it. Acts 7: 51. They perish, not because the spiritual grace pur-
chased by the atonement is withheld from them, but because they '
count the
blood of the covenant wherewith they were sanctified an unholy thing, and
'do despite unto the Spirit of grace.' Heb. 10: 29. The effusion of the
Spirit which followed the atonement, effected a general union of the divine
and human natures. The apostles and church at Jerusalem were only the
point of contact, where that union took place* Christ, as the second Adam,
SALVATION FROM SIN, 175
is spiritually connected with, and present in, the whole race of man. *
The
grace [i. e. the spiritual power] of God that bringeth salvation, hath appeared
to all men.' Tit. 2: 11. *
This is the record, that God hath given to us
[i. e. to mankind] eternal life, and this life is in his Son.' 1 John 6: 11.
It is obvious that this gospel calls men first of all, not to works, but to faith.
If our forgiveness were yet future and contingent, and Christ were not in
the world, but only in believers and in heaven, we might labor to propitiate
God, and to procure the presence of his Son. But since God is already
reconciled and Christ '
is come in the flesh,' it only remains for us to believe.
Accordingly Paul's direction to one who is in quest of the righteousness of
God, is
—' Say not in thine heart, Who shall ascend into heaven ? (that is,
to bring Christ down from above ;) or, Who shall descend into the deep ?
(that is, to bring up Christ again from the dead.) . . . The word is nigh
thee, even in thy mouth, and in thy heart: that is, the word of faith which
we preach ; that if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and
shalt believe in thine heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou
shalt be saved.' Rom. 10: 6—9.
II. To believe the gospel, is to credit and heartily embrace the truth that
God is reconciled to man, and that Christ is in all flesh. To distinguish true
faith from false, we must notice several specific characteristics . involved in
this general definition.
1. True faith is an act of the heart. It is not a passive or forced assent
of the understanding, nor a movement of the feehngs, in view of the truth,
but a determination of the will to seal the veracity of God. Its language is
• '
I WILL believe God, though men and devils and my own feelings con-
tradict him.'
2. True faith proceeds directly to self-application of the general truths of
the gospel. It argues thus :—^ God is reconciled to the world ; therefore he
is reconciled to me. Christ is in all flesh ; therefore he is in me.'
3. True faith boldly follows primary facts to their consequences, thus :
* If Christ is in me, his death and resurrection are in me ; I am crucified
with him ; my soul is with him in the resurrection ; I sit with him in heavenly
places ; his victory over sin and death is mine.'
4. True faith acts itself out by openly confessing, with self-application y,
the. truth that '
Christ is come in the flesh' with all its consequences.
Thus the inquirer will perceive that to believe the gospel is by no means
a trivial act. In '
setting to his seal that God is true,' he must break through
all the spiritual barriers of the world of darkness ; he must ' cast down his
own imaginations,' and command his understanding into subjection to * the^
evidence of things not seen ;'
he must follow the word of God wilfully and.
boldly, where feelings draw back and resist ; he must gird himself for con-
flict with the scorn and gainsaying of the world. The bravery of the battle-
warrior is cowardice, in comparison with the courage of him who can heartily
say, ' Let God be true and every man a liar.' '
This is the work of God,''
that ye believe on him whom he hath sent'—a work too great for fallen hu-
man nature. '
No man (says Christ) can come to me except the Father
vwliich hath sent me draw him.' This is true, not because men are destitute
176 SALVATION FKOM SIN.
of the natural faculties necessary to the belief of the gospel, but because they
have not moral energy enough to resist the devil and lay hold on the truth.
Faith therefore is not the fruit of the flesh, but '
the gift of God ;' (Eph. 2;
8 ;) an act of the heart of man, possible to all, and in the highest degree
obligatory on all, but actually existing only where God in his sovereign
mercy gives special grace. '
God is the Savior of all men, specially of those
that believe.'' 1 Tim. 4: 10. He has forgiven all, and sent the Spirit of grace
to all, and so has left all utterly without excuse for remaining unreconciled
but he has gwQn faith only to them whom he chose in Jesus Christ before
the world began.
The effect of simple belief on the conduct and condition of men, may be
illustrated by many familiar examples. Suppose two nations, that have been
engaged in war with each other, are reconciled and enter into a treaty of
friendship. Proclamation of peace is sent forth from the governments to
their subjects. All who heartily believe the proclamation, immediately cease
hostilities, and conform their feelings and conduct to the friendly relations
established by the treaty. If any refuse to believe, they continue the war
in their own hearts and actions, though it has ceased between the govern-
ments.
Again, suppose a poor outcast is made heir by the will of a friend, to a
large estate. He is informed of his good fortune. Now if he refuses to be-
lieve that the will exists, and that he is actually the owner of the estate, he
remains a beggar in feehngs and condition, though he is a rich man, by lawful
title. On the other hand, if by any means he is persuaded to believe the
truth in the case, his feelings and actions immediately come into correspon-
dence with that truth : he becomes in his own consciousness as well as in fact
a rich man.
Examples of this kind, however, cannot fully illustrate the power of faith
in the atonement ; for in all such cases, the word to be believed has no special
power, and its effect on the condition and conduct of the believer is produced
simply by the information which it conveys ; whereas, we have seen that the
word of the gospel is '
quick and powerful, clothed with the energy of God,
and produces its effect on believers, even more by its spiritual influence than
by its effect on the understanding. Truth is to the heart, as food to the
body. The effect of food is proportioned not merely to the digestive power
of the consumer, but also to the nutritive power of the food itself. So the
effect of truth received into the heart, is proportioned not merely to the
mental energy of the behever, but also to the spiritual energy of the truth
believed. Hence when the gospel is received '
not as the word of man, but
as it is in truth the word of God,' the heart not only hears information, but
feels power.
God having reconciled the world unto himself, and having poured out his
Spirit upon all flesh, the inquirer is apprised by the external word, that Christ
* stands at the door.' He may properly conceive that the spirit of truth
surrounds and presses upon him like the atmosphere ; that it has penetrated
his spirit as far as it can without his consent ; that it is '
nigh, even in his
heart and in his mouth.' Now when he believes with practical, that is with
SALVATION FROM SIN. 177
confessing faith, the facts of which he thus conceives, his spirit comes into
sympathy with the Spirit of truth ; they coalesce and become one. That
which was before an unperceivecl influence, present only as it w^ere to the
surface of his spirit, and repelled by unbehef as oil is repelled by water, now
enters into his consciousness ; he feels that Christ is in him, with the power
of the resurrection, the victory over sin and death, the hope of glory.
If the inquirer asks, '
How^ may I know that I shall holdfast the profes-
sion I have made V—our answer is, Your security, like your faith, though
it depends subordinately on your own will, is nevertheless ' the gift of God.'
The same power that first disposed you to believe, must * strengthen, settle,
and establish' you in the faith. You have good right to hope this will be
done, from the consideration suggested by Paul—' If when w^e were enemies
we were reconciled, . . . much more^ being reconciled^ we shall he saved."*
Rom. 4: 10. If God has laid hold of us, will he not secure us ? '
Know ye
not,' says the apostle, '
that to w^hom ye yield yourselves servants to obey,
his servants yc aref (Rom. 6: 16 ;) i. e., the first act of yielding, places us
permanently under the power of him to whom, we yield. 'He that hath begiin
a good work in us, will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ.' Phil. 1:6.
To those who neglect or reject the offer of salvation from sin, we must
address a word of w^arning. Though the atonement has purchased forgive-
ness and spiritual grace for all, it must be remembered that this forgiveness
and grace, once decisively and deliberately refused, is not proffered the
second time. '
If we sin wilfully after that we have received the knowledge
of the truth, there remaineth no more sacrifice for sins, but a certain fearful
looking for of judgm_ent, and fiery indignation that shall devour the adver-
saries.' Heb. 10: 26, 27. Sins are of two kinds, viz : sins against the law,
(written or unwritten,) and sins against the truth and grace of the gospel.
Sins against the law, i. e. all sins that are committed previous to the know-
ledge of the gospel, are provided for by the atonement, and will exclude no
one from salvation. But the second groivth of sinj^—those w^hich are com-
mitted in full view of the provisions of the gospel, and under its spiritual
influences—those which '
tread the Son of God under foot, and do despite
unto the Spirit of grace,'—can never be expiated. If the sanctifying power
of the sacrifice of the Son of God has tried its strength upon a sinner's
heart in vain, that sinner has passed beyond the possibility of salvation ; for
all subsequent influences must be weaker than those which have already failed.
Mere disease may admit hope ; but disease that has withstood the power of
appropriate medicine is given up as incurable. ' If any man see his brother
sin a sin which is not unto death, he shall ask, and [Christ] shall give him
life for them that sin not unto death. There is a sin unto death. I do not
say that he shall pray for it. All unrighteousness is sin ; and there is a sin
which is not unto death.' 1 John 5: 16, 17. Christ, in his djung interces-
sion, did not pray for the sin '
that is unto death.' * Father, forgive them,
for they knoto not what they do,"* Here is the true limitation of the atone^
ment. Men may even crucify the Son of God in ignorance^ and yet be
forgiven. Paul persecuted Christ in his members with ' threatening and
22
ITS PERFECTIONISM.
filaugliter,' and yet lie found mercy, becjiuse he *
did it ignorantly in unbe-
lief.' 1 Tim. 1: 13. But when sinners, once forgiven by the atonement
* crucify the Son of God afresh, and put him to an open shame,' knoiving
what they do^ their sin is no longer human, but diaboHcal—they have passed
beyond the precincts of the atonement. We repeat it therefore, let those
who hear the tidings of God's mercy with indiiference, bear in mind that, if
he is now reconciled to them as men^ ' that are ignorant and out of the way,'
he mil not be reconciled to them when they become devils^ by wilful, delib-
erate rejection of the profters of his grace. Let them remember that though
the tent of salvation is spread over the whole world, unbelief can dig out of
that tent into hell.
That no one may mistake the views presented in this article for Antinomi-
anism, we will add in conclusion, that we beheve a day of judgment is
coming, in which God will literally '
reward every man accordmg to his
WORKS ;' that it is therefore absolutely necessary, in order that men may be
saved, that they should be put in the w^ay of domg good works. In fact we
carry our estimation of good works so far, that we fully believe that every
man who comes to the judgment with no better works than those described
in the seventh chapter of Eomans, will be damned. We therefore present
this gospel of faith, not as an easy method of escaping the necessity of works,
but as the only and the sure foundation of such works as will survive the fire
of judgment. We beheve the words of Christ—'^s the branch cannot hear
fruit of itself, except it abide in the vine; no more can ye, except ye abide
in me. I am the vine, ye are the branches: he that ahideth in me, and I
in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit.''
§ ^3. PERFECTIONISM.
Perceiving nothing in the sound or form of the word Perfectionist, es-
sentially odious, and assuredly anticipating the time of its redemption from
infamy, we will take the liberty to explam the meaning of it, as used by
those who consent to bear it.
We mil not attempt to state what a Perfectionist is not —for this would
require us to dissect and disclaim all the varying and incongruous images of
perfection conjured up by the word in the various fancies of men, from a
picture of a monk m sackcloth and ashes, to that of a seraph with six wings.
It it is sufficient to say, that in the minds of those who consent to bear the
name, so far as we know, perfection is predicated of only a single attribute,
viz., holiness ; and of that only hi a limited sense. We find in the Bible, as
well as in che nature of the case, three modifications of perfect holiness:—
perfection of obedience; perfection of security of obedience ; and perfection
of holiness by expeiience or suffering. These distinctions may be easily
PERFECTIONISM. '
179
nnderstood by a simple illustration. The success of a general on a battle-
field, may be perfect in a threefold manner. 1. He may be simply success-
ful at the outset. 2. He may be successful at the outset, with an assurance
of final victory. 3. He may be successful by the actual accomplishment of
the victory.
1. The holiness of Adam, and of the angels that left their first estate, was
perfect, considered simply as obedience to law, but destitute of prospective
security, as was proved by their apostacy.
2. The holiness of Christ, the second Adam, was perfect, both as present
obedience to law, and as prospectively secure. Yet in another sense it was
imperfect, during his residence on earth. For '
though he w^ere a son, yet
learned he obedience by the things which he suffered ; and being made per-
fect, he became the author of eternal salvation to all them that obey him.*
'
For it became him, by whom are all things, and for whom are all things, in
bringing many sons unto glory to make the captain of their salvation perfect
through sufferings.^ Previous to his crucifixion, this captain of our salvation
was perfectly successful in his conflict with sin, both presently and prospect-
ively ;
yet the battle was before him. So Paul, while counting all things
but loss, that he might overcome death by knowing the fellowship of the suf-
ferings of Christ, denied that he had already attained the victory, or was al-
ready perfect ; and yet in the next breath, falhng back upon an inferior
meaning of the word, he could say, '
Let us therefore, as many as be perfect
be thus minded.'
3. The present holiness of Ohrist, on the throne of his glory, and of those
who, having overcome by his blood, have attained that likeness of his resur-
rection toward which Paul was urging his way, is perfected in the highest
sense. The battle is fought ; the victory won ; their holiness is perfect as
obedience—perfect in security—and perfect by victory over suffering. Per-
fectionists, then, if they may be allowed to designate the place which they
suppose they hold on the scale of perfection, universally disclaim the profes-
sion of attainments above those of the sidffering Son of God. They covet
not the premature glory of victory before battle. They stand with Paul on
the middle ground, between the perfection of Adam and of Christ, saved
from sin—eternally saved—^^^et ' saved by hope, waiting for the adoption,
to wit, the redemption of their bodies.'
We acknowledge that the phrase perfect holiness is almost a solecism in the
first of the three senses above mentioned ; for any thing short of perfect
present obedience, is perfect disobedience ; and we might as well speak of
the imperfect success of a general who never began to conquer, as to speak
of the imperfect holiness of one who has not yet obeyed God. The truth is
too simple to need expansion, that every individual action is either wholly
sinful or wholly righteous ; and that every being in the universe, at any giv-
en time, is either entirely wicked or entirely holy, i. e. either conformed to
law or not conformed to law : yet the prevailing modes of thought and speech
force us to recognize a quality of action and character, called imperfect ho-
liness, wliich takes rank somewhere indefinitely below wdiat may seem the
lowest possible or conceivable modification of holiness. So that, with refer-
180 PERFECTIONISM.
ence to this, we must name 7ne7'e holiness, perfect holiness—consigning the
censure due to the impropriety of our language, to those who maintain the
possibility of serving God and mammom, i. e. of being holy and sinful, at the
same time. A profession, then, of perfect holiness, thus understood, is in
truth merely a profession of holiness, without which, confessedly, none can
claim tlie name of sons or servants of God ; and instead of deserving the
charge of arrogance, should rather be censured, if at all, for conveying, in
the language of it, the implication that men may be less than perfectly holy,
and yet not perfectly sinful. But we take higher ground. The first Adam
was holy ; the second Adam was, in a more proper sense, perfectly holy—
his holiness was secure. The gospel platform is as much above the ground
of mere holiness, as a deed i^ fee simple is above mere possession.
As obedience is the test of all holiness, so we believe, under the gosp'el,
perpetuity of obedience is the test of all holiness. Here we may speak,
without solecism, of perfect holiness ; and here we are exposed to a more
plausible charge of arrogance. Let us examine the ground of this charge.
Without entering the wide field of scripture argument, it is sufficient for our
purpose to notice a single fact in relation to the views of those who most
freely stigmatize the supposed self-righteousness of Perfectionists. These
very persons universally and confessedly expect, at death, to become Per-
fectionists, and that not merely of the second, but of the third degree : in
other words, while earthly Pefectionists claim only secure dehverance from
sin, their accusers anticipate, within a brief space, secure deliverance from
sin and all evil. What is the consideration which exempts their anticipation
from the charge of self-righteous presumption, and yet leaves the burden
upon our claim ? Their answer assuredly must be—' We anticipate, at death,
secure redemption from sin and evil, as the gift of the grace of God,^ But
the self-same apology relieves our claim. We receive present redemption
from sin as the gift of the grace of God ; we only enter, '
by a new and liv-
ing way,' upon the possession of a portion of that gratuitous inheritance
which they expect to receive at death. We must be permitted, then, to say
boldly, that the same rule which allows men to liope for heaven without pre-
sumption, allows us to receive heaven here without self-righteousness : and
the charge of arrogance is due to those who hope for the gift, while they
daily displease the Giver. The same Christ who will be the believer's por-
tion in heaven, is our righteousness and sanctincation here. While, there-
fore, we shrink not from the odium connected with the name Perfectionist,
we cannot despair of disabusing all honest men, ere long, of a portion of their
prejudices against it, by convincing them that we join in the testimony of our
li^ng head, that ' there is none good but one, that is God,' and believe that
by the energy of his goodness alone we are delivered from sin.
The standard by which every man judges of the nature of time humihty,
and of its opposite, spiritual pride, is determined by the answer which his
heart gives to the question—' Who is the author of righteousness ? If the
credit of holiness is due to him who professes it, then his profession exalts
himself at the expense of God, and justly exposes him to the charge of
spiritual arrogance, however high or low may be his claim. But if God
PERFECTIONISM. 181
alone is acknowledged as the author of righteousness, a profession of holiness
is only che acknowledgment of a gift—and not only consistent with, but
necessary to, the exercise of true humility. The man who has no conception
of any righteousness other than his own, may well count the confession of
imperfection—genuine modesty. From such we expect no mercy. But if
there are any who ascribe all righteousness to God, we hope to convince them
that the arrogance Avhich boasts of the ' Lord our righteousness' is the per-
fection of humility ; and that the profession of humility which delights in
the confession of sin and in the expectation of a continued commission of it,
is only a modest way of robbing Christ of the crown of his glory.
Is it imagined that the man to whom God in truth has given perfect holi-
ness, has done some great thing ? He has done nothing. The great achieve-
ment of his will which, be it remembered, the grace of God has secured, is
the cessation from his own works, and the commencement of an everlasting
repose on the energy o? the Uving God, as the basis and hope of his right-
eousness. He has simply died—and with his dying breath bequeathed his
body, soul and spirit to his Maker, rolling the responsibiUty of his future and
eternal obedience upon the everlasting arm.
We believe it is incomparably easier to receive deliverance from all sins,
than to conquer one. Paul clearly presents the principle in R-om. 1: 21—32,
which accounts for the difficulty men find in obtaining freedom from sin.
Because they refuse to glorify God, he gives them up to vile affections. The
affections of men are rightfully under the perfect control of God. When he
is dethroned, he abandons his kingdom, and anarchy ensues ; every eifort to
quell the rebeUion of desires, which falls short of a reinstatement of God in
his sovereignty over the heart, must result in disheartening failure. But
why should it be difficult for Him who 'stands at the door,' if his petition for
entrance is heard, and his claim for dominion admitted, to restore peace and
security to the ruined kingdom ? Why should it be thought an incredible
thing, that God should raise the dead? Pride, envy, anger, sensuahty, &c.,
are but limbs of the tree of sin, the stock of which is that unbelief which
rejects the righteousness of God. The man who commences the work of ex-
terminating sin at the top of the tree, or among any of the branches, will
soon be disheartened by the discovery that the branches he ha^. once lopped
off, soon grow again, or send their juice into other limbs. We say, there-
fore, it is ea^^er to lav the ax at the r^pt and fell the wbgle tree at once,
than to exterminate effectually a single lirnb. In view of these considera-
tions, though we object not to the name. Perfectionist—and though we verily
believe and unblushingly maintain that we are free from sin—we beg to be
relieved of the glory, and of tlie shame of the achievement ; as we have been
taught with the scourge, that the day has come when '
all the haughtiness of
men shall be brought low, and the Lord alone exalted.'
§ 24. 'HE THAT COMMITTETH SIN, IS OF THE DEVIL.'
Much has been said and written to show that John, in the above declaration,
did not mean what he said. It is admitted on all hands that he did not mean
more than he said ; for, assuming that his intention was to convey the idea
that any one who sins has no part or lot in the salvation of the gospel, he
could not have expressed it more clearly in an equal number of words, than
he has done in these. The only question is, whether he meant less than he
said ; whether his words are to be qualified in such a manner as to mitigate
the rigor of their simple sense. In determining this question, we shall resort,
1, to the context ; 2, to other parts of scripture ; 3, to the nature of the case.
I. The Context.
" Ev^ery man that hath this hope [viz. of seeing Christ] in him, purifieth
himself even a^ he is pure. Whosoever committeth sin transgresseth also the
law: for sin is the transgression of the law. And ye know that he was mani-
fested to take awajour sins ; and in him is no sin. Whosoever abideth in
him sinneth not ; whosoever sinneth, hath not seen him, neither known him.
Little children, let no man deceive you ; he that doeth righteousness, is
righteous, even as he is righteous. He that committeth sin, is of the devil
for the devil sinneth from the beginning. For this purpose the Son of God
was manifested, that he might destroy the works of the devil. Whosoever is
born of God doth not commit sin ; for his seed remaineth in him : and he
cannot sin, because he is born of God. In this the children of God are man-
ifest, and the children of the devil : whosoever doeth not righteousness, is
not of God." 1 John 3: 3—10.
1. It is manifest in the above passage, that the apostle w^as laboring seri-
ously and earnestly to establish the truth, (whatever that truth may be,)
that '
he that committeth sin is of the devil.' He has expressed it not less
than eight times, in varying phraseology, within the •
compass of tliis short
paragraph. Among all these expressions, we may surely expect to ascertain
beyond controversy, whether he meant to assert that ' he that committeth
fiin is of the devil,' absolutely, or in a qualified sense. If he has not defi
nitely and perfectly conveyed his meaning, he was either singularly unfor-
tunate as a Writer, or a wilful deceiver. But he cannot be misunderstood.
Not a particle of evidence can be found in the whole paragraph, that he de-
signed to suggest or admit any qualification of the simple declaration '
he
that committeth sin is of the devil.' On the contrary, he has expressed the
same idea in at least seven other instances, without qualification ; and in two
instances, with such a comparison as perfectly determines the extent of his
meaning. '
Every man that hath this hope in him, purifieth himself even as
he [ Christ] is pure."* ' He that doeth righteousness, is righteous, even as he
is righteousJ If it is not absolutely true that *
he that committeth sin is of
the devil,' the apostle has eight times in succession repeated a false assertion
"without the least intimation of his covert meaning, and with such definitive
explanations that we cannot avoid the conclusion that he designed and
earnestly labored to establish those to whom he wrote in the belief of its truth.
HE THAT COMMITTETH SIN IS OF THE DEVIL. 18S
2. The Immediate context strongly intimates the nature and extent of the^
truth declared in the words in question. ' Little children, let no man deceive
you ; he that doeth righteousness, is righteous, even as he is righteous : he
that committeth sin is of the devil.' The apostle was evidently dwelling on
a point, concerning which the greatest danger of deception existed. We may
well perceive the necessity of his caution
—' Let no man deceive you'—if we
understand that he was insisting upon the truth that all men are either as
righteous as Christ, or as wicked as the devil. Doubtless there were then,
as there are now, multitudes who could not receive Christ's assertion, that
* a good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit, neither can a corrupt tree bring
forth good fruit'—who believed it possible to serve God and mammon at the
same time. Such persons might be expected to deceive themselves and
others. Hence it was needful that the truth on the subject should be stated
with what seems to be almost puerile repetition, and with explicit caution
against deception. There is no subject at this day, in respect to Avhich there
is so much manifest looseness of thought, and tendency to self-deception, as
the question, whether, and how much, men may sin and yet be Christians.
Human depravity teaches us to expect a tendency to lean away from the
severe doctrine of the apostle. In these circumstances, his warning—'Let
no man deceive you'—is not only appropriate to his subject, but a pledge of
his plainness. With such a warning in his mouth, how could he use the lan-
guage of poetry or metaphor ? If he was honest, he could say no more nor
less than he meant. If he did not mean that all men are either as righteous
as Christ or as wicked as the devil, he has done what he could, so far as lan-
guage is concerned, to deceive those to whom he wrote, while he solemnly
cautioned them agamst the delusions of others. ' Little children, let no man
deceive you ; he that doeth righteousness, is righteous, even as he is right-
eous.' As if he had said, '
There are those who will try to deceive you with
the notion that there is such a thing as imperfect righteousness—sinful hoK-
ness ; but beware of such. He that committeth sin is of the devil..' If the
common view of this passage is true, instead of diminishing the danger of
deception, by his plainness and caution, he has greatly augmented it. If he
did not mean to convey the idea that men cannot sin at all and be Christians,
we confess, for ourselves, he has greatly deceived us. Though by no means
naturally inclined to exalt the standard of holiness, we have been compelled
to believe that John was a Perfectionist of the highest standard, so far as
the subject of holiness is concerned.
3. It is manifest, in the paragraph we have quoted, that the apostle's ob-
ject was to estabhsh a definite and intelligible test by which the children of
God, and the children of the devil, might be distinguished. '
In this the
children of God are manifest, and the children of the devil ; he that doeth
not righteousness is not of God.' And forasmuch as he had already declared
that ' he that doeth righteousness, is righteous even as Christ is righteous,^
he wtually proposed this test, viz :
'
He that is not as righteous as Christ, is
not of God: in other words, he that committeth sin [without qualification]
is a child of the devil.' In this view of his language, the test is simple, in-
telligible, perfect. Two classes only are recognized, and they are easily and
184 HE THAT COMMITTETH SIN
certainly distinguished. The children of God are perfectly holy. Sin, in
every case, proves the subjects of it children of the devil. If we substitute
any of the common versions of this passage for the simj le words as they stand
in the text, we destrov the nature and value of the test. For example, '
He
that committeth sin haUtaally is of the devil.' Now it would puzzle the
keenest casuist that ever '
cavilled for the ninth part of a hair,' to ascertain
the limits, and define the meaning of the term, 'habitual sin.' Ihus^ the
vi:'tuc Oi* the test is lost. This may be seen by an illustration. While the
principle v/as held that *
he who drinks ardent sj irits habitually is intem-
perate,' and no other test was known, nobody could with any satisfactory
degree of accuracy, disdnguish between the temperate and intemperate.
Every man had his own standard of temperance. Seme claimed the char-
acter of t3:n )3iMt3 m3i, b33aa33 the/ draak only once a day ; and some who
drank before and after every meal, thought themselves by no means habitual
drinkers. But when the principle was esta])lislied that '
he that drinks ar-
dent spirits is intemperate,' a perfect and J
ractical test was furnished. A
fulcrum was fixed for the action of that lever which has revolutionized the
p)ublic sentiment of the civilized world. So, while the word '
habitually' is
added to the declarations of the word of God concerning sin, we can expect
nothing but looseness of thought and looseness of practice, which shall con-
found all valuable distinctions between saints and sinners. Receive the word
of God as it stands—' He that committeth sin is of the devil'—and a fulcrum
is fixed for a lever which by the power of God shall ere long turn an inverted
>Yorld upside down. These remarks apply with equal force to various other
versions of John's '
hard saying:' e. g., '
He that committeth hnoun sin is
of the devil ;' '
He that committeth wilful sin is of the devil ;' '
He that
committeth sin is of the devil ivliile committing sin,'' &c. But it is needless
to protract this examination. It is perfectly manifest to every candid reader,
that John intended to take the high ground of total abstinence from sin ;
and we are so uncharitable (if it must be called iin charitable) as to believe
that they who insist upon inserting the words '
habitual,' ' known,' 'wilful,'
&;c., in his uncjualified declarations, in so doing, commit hahitual, JcnowTiy
and wilful sin.
II. Other parts of scripture.
If we can clearly ascertain the sense of one assertion of God's word, we
need no more proof to establish the truth which it exhibits. If that word by
legitimate rules of interpretation applied to every part individually, is not
consistent with itself, its authority is destroyed. Yet we have thought it
well, for the sake of those who make great account of w^hat is called the
* analogy of faith'—the principle by which one part of scripture is distorted
into Fceming consistency with another, and by the abundant use of which
systems of divinity, creeds, &c., discordant as they are, have usually been
constructed—to show by a few examples, that John is not the only writer in
the Bible who denies that they who sin have any part or lot with Christ.
Paul says—' If ye live after the flesh, ye shall die.' Rom. 8: 13. Who
live after the flesh but they that commit sin ? Again ;
'
If while we seek to
be justified by Christ, we ourselves are found sinners, is Christ therefore the
IS OF THE DEVIL. 185
ndnister of sin ? God forbid.' Gal. 2: 17. Having sliovm that believers are
justified by Christ, and not by the works of the law, the antinomian question
suggests itself to the apostle, whether justification by Christ abolishes the
necessity of personal hoHness—whether Christ will justify, and thus serve
men in their sins ? He rephes with a decisive negative, and proceeds to
show that in true believers Christ makes an end of the law and its works, by
living in them, crucifying their flesh, and making them personally partakers
of his perfect righteousness.
James says—' Ye adulterers and adulteresses, know ye not that the friend-
ship of the world is enmity with God ? Whosoever therefore will be a friend
of the world, is the enemy of God.' 4: 4. Most professing Christians will
admit that this is true in some general and indefinite sense. If it is true in
any sense, a '
worldly Christian' (we use the language of antichrist) is an
enemy of God. But we may easily perceive that it is true in its most rig-
orous sense, by attending to the hint furnished by the address with which it
begins : —' Ye adulterers and adulteresses.^ The apostle is dealing with pro-
fessors of rehgion : for he says immediately before, '
Ye ask and receive not,'
&c., showing that the persons he addressed recognized God as the source of
blessing ; and he afterwards characterizes them as 'douhle^nded.^ Ver. 8.
We understand then that he called them adulterers and adulteresses, because
they professed to stand in the covenant of God, which the Bible every where
represents as a marriage covenant^ and yet loved the w^orld. In other words,
the love of the world is a breach of a marriage covenant with God—spiritual
adultery. Now let any one consider how dehcate and sacred the marriage
relation is, as it exists between two fellow-worms—^how the least suspicion of
a single instance of unfaithfulness destroys all fellowship—and he will under-
stand how often and how long men may commit adultery with the world, and
yet remain in marriage covenant and fellowship with the great God.
As it is this class of persons, called by James the ' double-minded,' i. e.
'worldly Christians,' whose standing is principally concerned in the interpre-
tation of our hard saying—' He that committeth sin is of the devil,'—we will
notice particularly several other passages which treat of their case.
Matt. 6: 22, 23. ' The light of the body is the eye : if therefore thine
eye be single, thy whole body shall be full of light: but if thine eye be evil,
thy whole body shall be full of darkness. If therefore the fight that is in
thee be darkness, how great is that darkness 1' In the first two clauses of
this passage, Christ represents all men as either full of light or full of dark-
ness : i. e., wholly righteous or wholly sinful ; for all men have either a sin-
gle or an evil eye. In the last clause he evidently alludes to the case of
those, who, having an evil eye^ imagme themselves at \e2iSt partially right"
eous, and thus put darkness for fight. That this is his meaning, appears
from what immediately follows : —' No man can serve two masters,' &c.
' If the fight that is in thee be darkness, [i. e., if you have an understand-
ing of religious truth, profess and befieve yourself to be in the way of right-
eousness, while yet your eye is not single—while you are seeking to serve both
God and mammon,] how great is that darkness !'
The expression intimates
23
186 HE THAT COMMITTETH SIN
^vhat 19 manifestly true, that *
a worldly Christian/ a '
double-minded man,
is in greater moral darkness than a mere heedless sinner.
Compare Matt. 24: 48—51, mth Luke 12: 45, 46. In these passages
we have a clear description of the character and doom of a double-minded
man. 1. He is an ^evil servant;^ not an open rebel, neither a good servant,
but a rebel at heart, and a servant by profession : in other words, an adul-
terer, a double-minded man, who is seeking to serve God and mammon.
2. He takes advantage of the delay of his master to indulge himself in wick-
edness, sa}dng, '
My Lord delayeth his coming ;' an exact pattern of the case
of those who neglect preparation for meeting Christ, in expectation of death-
bed sanctification. 3. His master comes upon him unexpectedly, cuts him
oflf, and assigns him a portion with Jiypocrites and unbelievers. This last
expression intimates that he was neither entirely a hypocrite, nor an unbe-
liever. 1\\ some sense he was truly a servant of his master ; in some sense
he was a believer ; but he wa-s an evil servant, a wicked believer, and there-
fore unexpectedly shared the doom of sheer hypocrites and unbelievers.
In John 8: 30—44, we have a dehneation of the character and standing of
wicked believers. Observe, 1, the persons there spoken of believed on
Christ ; 2, they thought themselves Abraham's seed and therefore heirs of
the promises; 3, they denied that they were in bondage ; 4, they thought
themselves the children of God. Christ declared to them the test
—' Who-
soever committeth sin is the servant of sin.' They disputed, cavilled, re-
jected his word, as thousands of wicked believers do in this day. He said
to them plainly at last, '
Ye are of your father the devil.' For this they
called him a Samaritan, and a child of the devil. Such is now the usual
result of the application of John's test, '
He that committeth sin is of the
devil.'
Revelation 3: 14—18, describes a double-minded church. It appears
that this church was well pleased with its supposed good estate. But Christ
gives us to understand that he loathed its character more than he would have
done had there been no profession of righteousness.
We give but a specimen of that testimony concerning sin, which is the
most prominent characteristic of the New Testament, and indeed of the whole
Bible. We give enough to show that the Scripture makes but two classes
among men, the children of God, and the children of the devil ; and subdi-
viding the children of the devil into careless sinners and religious sinners, or
unbelievers and ^double-minded,' assigns the lowest place to the latter class.
III. The nature of the case.
Every body admits in some general sense that sin characterizes the chil-
dren of the devil, and holiness the children of God. The only question that
calls for discussion is whether sin is of such a nature that a single instance
of the commission of it is a sufficient criterion of character. For the sake
of illustration we put another question : Is the juice of a tree of such a nature
that a single specimen of the fruit it produces is a sufficient criterion of the
tree ? We are authorized by right reason, as well as by the example of
Christ, to use this illustration. As in the case of the tree, one principle of
vitality pervades every limb, so that there is a unity of character, and the
IS OF THE DEVIL. 187
nature of all its fruit may be known by one specimen ; so in tbe case of moral
beings, one principle of action, call it heart, or ' governing purpose,' or
what you will, pervades the whole conduct of the man, and one clearly ascer-
tained instance of moral action decides his whole character. Can a man's
heart be opposed to all sin, and yet his conduct be sinful ? If so, he acts
contrary to his own will, which is absurd. If his heart is only opposed to sin
* in general,' if he has only what is called a ' supreme,' not an entire or
perfect purpose to avoid sin, he may indeed, consistently with such a heart,
sin more or less as occasion demands ; but let him compare such a heart with
the law of God, '
Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart,' &c.,
and he will discover that his 'governing purpose' is a sinful one, and there-
fore corrupts his whole character. Sin, and sin only, is the legitimate fruit
of such a 'governing purpose.' This is true of every '
governing purpose'
which falls short of the perfect love of God which the law requires ; and when
that perfect love of God is attained, sin is no more. If men love God with
all the heart, they cannot sin ; and if they do not love him with all the heart, .
their governing purpose is sinful, and therefore they can o?ily sin.
'
James spoke good philosophy when he said, '
He that offendeth in one
point, is guilty of all.' The prmciple involved in that saying has a wider
sweep than is generally discovered. He that offendeth in one point is guilty
of a breach of the whole law ; his offense betrays a state of heart, wdiich
under similar circumstances would break every specific commandment, and
which now violates the spirit of that whole law, which requires universal love.
He that offendeth in one point, is guilty of all the sins of the universe, past,
present, and to come ; for he endorses the wdiole, and by one act, so far as t
lies in his power, makes himself responsible for the w^hole. If ten persons en-
dorse successively a bill of exchange, each one becomes responsible for the
whole amount. So every person who commits sin, by so doing endorses the
bill of universal sin. What though he has not exhibited so barefaced impiety
as others ? If he in a single instance commits sin, he places himself in fel-
lowship with all sinners and makes the barefaced impiety of others his own.
The accessory is equally guilty with the murderer, and every instance of sin
makes him who commits it accessory to the prince of murderers. If this
principle is correct, every sinner without exception is as guilty as the devil.
Every principle of common law and common sense developes the truth of
John's test
—' He that committeth sin is of the de\il.'
§ 25. PAUL NOT CARNAL
AN EXPOSITION OF ROMANS 7: 7—25.
« 7 What shall we say then ? Is the law sin ? God forbid. Nay, I had not
known sin, but by the law : for I had not known lust, except the law had said.
Thou shalt not covet. 8 But sin, taking occasion by the commandment, wrought
in me all manner of concupiscence. For without the law, sin was dead. 9 For
I was alive without the law once : but when the commandment came, sin revived,
and I died. 10 And the commandment, which was ordained to life, I found to
be unto death. 11 For sin, taking occasion by the commandment, deceived me,
and by it slew me. 12 Wherefore the law is holy ; and the commandment holy,
and just, and good. 13 Was then that which is good made death unto me ? God
forbid. But sin, that it might appear sin, working death in me by that which is
good ; that sin by the commandment might become exceeding sinful. 14 For
we know that the law is spiritual ; but I am carnal, sold under sin, 15 For that
which I do, I allow not : for what I would, that do I not ; but \v^hat I hate, that
do I. 16 If then I do that which I vvould not, I conse)it unto the law, that it is
good. 17 Now then it is no more I that do it, but sin that dwelleth in me.
18 For I know that in me, (that is, in my flesh,) dwelleth no good thing : for
to will is present with me ; but how to perform that which is good I find not.
19 For the good that I would, T do not : but the evil which I would not, that I do.
20 Now if I do that I would not, it is no more I that do it, but sin that dwelleth
in me. 21 I find then a law, that when I would do good, evil is present with me.
22 For I delight in the law of God after the inward man : 23 But I see another
law in my members, warring against the law of my mind, and bringing me into
captivity to the law of sin which is in my members. 24 O wretched man that I
am ! who shall deliver me from the body of this death ? 25 I thank God, through
Jesus Christ our Lord. So then, with the mind I myself serve the law of God,
but with the flesh the law of sin." Rom. 7: 7—25.
This passage (especially from the 14th to the 23d verse) is commonly
received throughout Christendom, as a description of Christian experience
—^nay, as the experience of the greatest of the apostles, the best specimen
of Christianity. Believing this view of the passage to be palpably errone-
ous, and exceeduigly pernicious, we propose, in the following dissertation, to
present some of the prominent reasons for adopting a different interpretation.
That our design may be clearly understood, before subjoining the reasons
proposed, we present a paraphrase of the passage, as follows, beginning at
the seventh verse :
7 We said above (in the 5th verse) that the motions of sin -which were
ht/ the laiv, did work in our members, to bring forth fruit unto death. What
shall we say then ? It appears the lato is the occasion of the motions of sins,
and the fruit is death. Is the law in fault ? Is aggravated guilt and death
the object, and legitimate result, of the application of law ? God forbid ; on
the contrary, its object, and actual result is not the promotion, but the ex-
posure, of sin. I should never have come to the knowledge of sin, but by
the light of the law ; where there is no law tliere is no sin : where the light
of the law (i. e. the expression of the -will of God) is feeble, as in the case
PAUL NOT CABNAL.
' '
189
of the heathen, there consciousness of sin is correspondingly feeble : and
where, as in my own case, the light of the law, by direct revelation, becomes
strong, the consciousness of sin, if the sinful principle remains, becomes cor-
respondingly strong. I should never have recognized the existence and guilt
of forbidden desire in my heart, if the law had not expressly said. Thou shalt
not covet, (i. e. indulge inordinate desire,) thereby carrjdng its claims be-
yond external action, into the thoughts and intents of the heart. So that the
law, instead of being the efficient cause of sin, is the means of its exposure
and condemnation.
8 The fatal result, therefore, of the application of law in my case, is to be
ascribed, not to the law, but to my own wickedness. The sinful principle,
which was within me before, instead of ceasing to exist in consequence of the
additional light and motive of a revealed law, taking occasion by the com-
mandment, wrought in me all manner of forbidden desire. Its evil nature
was aggravated and developed by the opposing claims of the law. For be-
fore I came to a knowledge of the law, the sinful principle was dead. It
made no manifestation of its pernicious power, and I was not aware of its
existence.
9 At that time, sin thus being dead, I was alive, free from the curse of
an evil conscience and expectation of wrath, happy, independently of the
grace of God. But this was because I had no just views of the law. Wlien
the commandment came home to my soul, in its power and spirituahty, the
sinful principle, which had been comparatively powerless and dead, revived.
I became conscious of its existence and malignity. As I have said, its evil
nature was aggravated and developed by the opposing claims of the law. As
light increased, by the necessity of the case, so long as the sinful principle
remained, its malignity and fatal power increased. I became worse and
worse, my case more and more hopeless, till I sunk into despair of salvation,
and died.
10 In this way, the commandment, which was ordained unto life, I found
to be the occasion (not the efficient or legitimate cause) of death.
11 It was my own wicked heart, that made the increased light and motive
of the law, an occasion of aggravated perversity. I was deceitfully led on
by it, from one degree of wickedness to another, till I. sunk down under
hopeless condemnation.
12 Wherefore, notwithstanding the fatal result of its application, we must
pronounce the law holy, and the commandment holy, just, and good.
13 As there is a difficulty in discerning how a thing can be good, and yet
be the occasion of evil, that we may view the subject in all its bearings, we
repeat the question in substance, which was asked at the outset. How can
we pronounce the law holy, just and good, and . yet affirm that the conse-
quence of its application was death to my soul ? Was that which is good
made death unto me ? God forbid. Death, as we have repeatedly said, is
no part of the design, or legitimate result, of the law, but must be ascribed,
m my case, wholly^ to my own wickedness. In this view of the subject, the
mahgnity of the sinful principle is clearly developed. What greater proof
can we have of its evil nature, than the fact that it works death by that
which is good ? A good principle extracts good from that which is evil.
190 PAUL NOT CARNAL.
But here the reverse is true. Evil is extracted from that which is good.
Thus siu by the commandment becomes exceeding sinful.
14 But to trace out more definitely, and in detail, the process by which
the law becomes an occasion of death, we say the fatal result flows from the
incongruity^ or opposition, which exists between my nature, or condition, as
a man in the flesh, and the claims of the law. For the law is spiritual—its
claims extend to the thoughts and intents of the heart—it proposes to control
the spirit; of course its claims can be met only by one whose spirit is free,
predominant over the flesh: whereas I am carnal, sold under sin. My in-
ferior propensities predominate over my spiritual nature, and lead captive
my will. In this state, it is impossible for me to obey the law. They that
are in the flesh cannot please God. My spiritual nature must predominate,
before I can obey a law whose claims are spiritual. So that the law, shed-
ding its light upon me while in the flesh, only shows me the impossibility of
obedience and salvation, so long as the flesh predominates over the spirit.
Remaining then in the flesh, the bond slave of sin, the law, which I know is
spiritual, and which my conscience approves as holy, just and good, only
wakes the sinful principle within me to tenfold malignity and power.
15 Thus I am brought into a deadly warfare with myself. The com-
mandment, like a two-edged sword, pierces even to the dividing asunder of
soul and spirit. I become, as it were, two beings. Reason, conscience, and
constitutional self-love, take sides with God and the law. My inferior pro-
pensities, having the will under their control, array themselves against their
claims. A conflict commences between my spiritual and carnal nature, in
which the flesh uniformly triumphs. For that which I do under the control
of the flesh, as a rational being enlightened by the law, I allow not. What
conscience and self-love constrain me to wish to do, that do I not; but what
I hate, because I know the guilt and ruin it brings upon me, that do I.
16 It is plain, then, if I do that w^hich, as a rational being, I would not,
I consent unto the law, that it is good, perceiving its adaptation to secure
the well being of my spiritual nature, notwithstanding the opposition of my
carnal nature and will to its claims.
17 Now then it is no more I that act thus, in opposition to conscience and
the law, but sin that dwelleth in me. The time w^as, when reason, conscience
and self-love consented to the course of my carnal nature and my will, and
then it might be said, J did what was done. But now my being is divided ;
I have, as it were, two wills, at war with each other; and the best half of my
nature is arrayed on the side of that will which opposes my actual doings.
My fleshly propensities, though they control the will, are unworthy to be
called the man. i, as a spiritual being, no longer consent to my own ac-
tions. Sin that dwelleth in me, subjecting the whole man to its control,
drags me into conflict with the law. Wliile the noblest of my powers, those
which most truly constitute rue a man, take sides with the law, my actions
are uniformly in opposition to its claims. Truly this exhibits the exceeding
sinfulness of sin.
18 I now know, since the spiritual claims of the law have enhghtencd my
understanding, and developed my sinful condition, that in me, that is, in my
flesh, in the carnal nature which belongs to me as an unregenerate man,
PAUL NOT CARNAL. 191
tliere dwelleth no good thing. It has come to be a certainty witli me, that
I shall never perform a right action while in the flesh. When I look upon.
the goodness of the law of God, and upon the happiness of its subjects, as a
rational being, I long to obey it. To will is present with me. My hunger-
ings after righteousness even exhibit themselves in efforts, and resolutions of
obedience, which either contemplate mere specific action, without a radical
change of principle, or respect future, and not present obedience, and, of
course, prove abortive. How to perform that which is good, I find not.
19 For the good that I would, I do not, but the evil which I would not,
that I do. After all my wishes and resolutions, I act uniformly in direct
opposition to the dictates of my better nature.
20 And I say again, if I do that which I would not—if my spiritual nature,
that which only deserves to be called the man^ approves the law which con-
demns my actions,—^it is no more J that do it, but sin that dwelleth in me,
which, in thus dragging me, I may say, against my will, into conflict with the
law, manifests its exceeding sinfulness.
21 I find then at last, by the ruinous conflict I have sketched, I am forced
upon the conclusion that sin is an abiding, universal principle within me.
The law which controls my spirit, is the very reverse of that law which my
conscience approves. The rule by which I live is this When I u'ould do
good, evil is present with me. Being the servant of sin, I am totally free
from righteousness. (6: 20.)
22 I hesitate not to use the expression '
When I ivoidd do good^—for I
delight in the law of God, after the inner man. I see its goodness and glory,
and long to be a subject of it. I look into the kingdom which it sways, and
involuntarily dehght in the beauty of the prospect. I wish an omnipotent
arm would take me up and place me beyond the gate, within its precincts.
23 But how to enter that gate, I find not. A present and full surrender
of the sinful principle, a triumph of my spiritual over my carnal nature, alone
can give me admission to that kingdom. Here, on the very threshold of
obedience and salvation, I find myself morally impotent. I see a law in my
carnal nature, warring against the law of God and of my own spiritual nature,
and triumphing in the conflict, bringing me into captivity to the law of sin
and death. Thus sin, which was dead when I was alive without the law, by
the coming of the commandment, has revived, and with merciless, living ma^
lignity, is driving me to despair. I am dying to hope and happiness.
24 wretched man that I am ! who shall deliver me from the body of
this death ?
25 (I thank God, who is able, through Jesus Christ our Lord, to deliver
a soul thus sinking to perdition, as w^e shall see in the chapter following.) We
conclude then, from what has been said, that I myself, as a man in the
flesh without Christ and under law, serve the law of God with my spiritual
nature, that which constitutes me a man ; and yet with my flesh, that part of
my nature which predominates, and controls my will, I serve the law of sin
thus according to the principle stated at the beginning of this discussion, in
the 5th verse, by the knowledge and approval of that law which condemns
my actions, brmging upoji myself aggravated guilt, coiidemnation and death.
192 PAUL NOT CARNAL.
It will be seen, by a glance at the foregoing paraphrase, that we view the
passage in question as a description of the exercises, not of a Christian, nor
yet of an ordinary unbeliever, but of a sinner dying under the law—of one
to whom the commandment has come, in whom sin is reviving, and who is
thus sinking without a Savior into hopeless condemnation. We subjoin the
following reasons for adopting this interpretation.
I. The necessity of it appears on the face of the language of the passage.
We concede that some of the expressions are descriptive of the exercises of
Christians ; e. g., 'I dehght in the law of God after the inward man,' &c.
Yet we affirm that they are equally descriptive of the exercises of convicted
sinners, who recognize the goodness and glory of the law which condemns
their actions, and under which they are dying. We affirm that intellectual
delight in the law of God is the essential cause of conviction, and that the
exceeding sinfulness of sin is never so fully developed, as when it drags its
victim down to death, in defiance of the remonstrances of the noblest part of
his nature. To delight in the law of God after the inward man, and yet in
action unifoimly to serve the law of sin, is truly a '
hyperbole' of wicked-
ness. (See verse 13 in the original.) Moreover we affirm, that while the
expressions alleged as descriptive of Christian experience, are equally appli-
cable to the exercises of convicted sinners, many of the opposite expressions,
which describe the sinful state of the character in question, cannot, without
manifest violence be apphed to the experience of Christians ; e. g., '
I am
carnal, sold under sin,' &c. That we may have a general and comparative
view of the strength of the expressions on the one side and the other, we
place them in parallel columns
MARKS OF A SINNER.
" I am carnal, sold under sin. That
which I do, I allow not. What I hate,
that do I. I know that in me (that is, in
my flesh) dwelleth no good thing. How
to perform that which is good, I find
not. The good that I would, I do not.
The evil which I would not, that I do.
1 find then a law that when I would do
good, evil is present with me, dec. bring-
ing me into captivity to the law of sin.
O wretched man that I am ! &c. With
the flesh 1 serve the law of sin."
MARKS OF A SAINT.
<' I consent unto the law, that it is
good. It is no more I that do it, but
sin that dwelleth in me. To will is
present with me. I delight in the law
of God after the inward man. I thank
God, through Jesus Christ our Lord.
With the mind, I myself serve the law
of God."
Note,—We place in this column all
the expressions, which by any violence
can be distorted into marks of Christian
character.
II. The form of the argument of the passage, requires the interpretation
we propose. Concerning the first half of the passage we have paraphrased,
(from the 7th to the 13th verse,) all are agreed. No controversy arises
till we come to the clause, ' I am carnal, sold under sin,' in verse 14. Here
the question presents itself, Does the apostle mean absolutely, accordmg •
to
the form of the expression, I am noiv, while writing, (though a holy servant
of God,) carnal, sold under sin? If so, the remamder of the passage may
indeed describe the exercises of a Christian ; and men may, by the example
of the great apostle of Christianity, claim tie character of hohness, while
PAUL NOT CARNAL. 198
tKey acknowledge themselves carnal, and the bond slaves of sin. It is plain,
that the whole value of the hypothesis which authorizes this conclusion, de-
pends on the form of the expression, '
I ain carnal,' &c. It is said the use
of the present tense confines the application of the expression to Paul's
present character. Here, then, we come to the point on which the whole
controversy turns. We are at issue concerning the time to which Paul re-
ferred, when he said
—'lam carnal.' We allege, before entering upon pos-
itive argument, as proof that the mere forin of the expression determines
nothing, the following passage—' Christ Jesus came into the world to save
sinners, of whom I am chief.'- 1 Tim. 1: 15. Here the same apostle who
elsewhere calls God and man to witness the holiness of his life, (1 Thess. 2:
10,) declares himself, if the use of the present tense necessarily respects
present character, to be now, while writing to his own son in the faith, the
chief of sinners. This will not be pretended : of course the argument from
the mere form of expression is abandoned. Now then, if by any other means
we can ascertain the time to which Paul refers, when he says '
I am carnal,'
we settle the question concerning the interpretation of the whole passage :
for the remaining language of the disputed paragraph is in immediate con-
nexion with, and dependent on, this first expression.
We resort, then, to the preceding context—to the chain of argument, of
which this expression constitutes a link. Observe, verse 14 is introduced
with a causative, '/or.' It contains, then, a reason for some preceding
truth. What is that truth ? Obviously this :
'
The consequence of the
application of the law to my soul, while in the flesh, was death ;
yet the law
was not in fault, for the law is wholly good. The procurement of this fatal
result is attributable wholly to my own Avickedness, the exceeding malignity
of which is thus developed. [Here comes in the clause under consideration.]
For the law is spiritual ; but I am carnal,' &c. It is plain that the opposition
which existed between the spiritual claims of the law, and the carnal condi-
tion of the person whose case is described, is given as a reason why death
resulted from the application of the law. That opposition must have prece-
ded the death which it wrought. The cause must precede the efiect. We
may paraphrase then the 9th verse, which is a summary statement of the
whole matter in discussion, thus :
'
I was alive without the law once ; but
when the commandment, in its spirituality, came, the opposition of my car-
nal nature awoke, sin revived and I died : for the law is spiritual ; but I am
carnal, sold under sin.' The carnal nature and the captivity to sin, then, of-
which he speaks in the 14th verse, preceded the death of which he speaks in
the 9th verse. ' I am carnal,' means," if there is any logic in Paul's argu-
ment, ' I was carnal, when I was alive without the law, before the com-
mandment came and sin revived and I died.' We need not go into an ar-
gument here, to prove that this was before his conversion. As the interpre-
tation of the whole disputed passage turns upon this point, we conclude the
argument of it requires our interpretation.
A shadow of an argument for the interpretation which makes the expres-
sion, ' I am carnal,' descriptive of Paul as a Christian, has been drawn from
a case of supposed analogy, in which, it is alleged, Paul calls saintSj car-
24
1^4 I>AITL NOT CARNAL,
nal. 1 Cor. 3: 1—3. This is not the place for proving, as we might abun-
dantly prove, that this allegation is untrue. It is sufficient for our present
purpose to deny that the charge which Paul brings against the Corinthians,
is, in any way, proof even of the probability that he himself was carnal.-^
On the contrary, the very fact that he rebuked the Corinthians for being
carnal, is evidence, to those who beUeve the apostle a consistent Christian,
that he was not chargeable with the same sin himself. If, in saying in the
7th of Romans, *
I am carnal, sold under sin,' the apostle described his own
character and condition as a Christian, what could hinder the Corinthians
from retorting, and that justly, his rebuke ?—' Physician, heal thyself.'
* Thou hypocrite, first cast out the beam out of thine own eye ; then shalt
thou see clearly to cast out the mote out of thy brother's eye.' ' You sharply
rebuke us for external action, which you suppose to be proof that we are
carnal ; and yet, in your epistle to the Romans (7: 14) you say, without
qualification, I am carnal, sold under sin. We have better proof, in your
own confession^ that you are carnal, than you have in our external actions^
that we are carnal.' Moreover, the context of the passage under consider-
ation most decisively proves (if Paul's oAvn words will be received as proof)
that he was not carnal* In the preceding chapter (1 Cor. 2: 6—16) he
declares that the wisdom which he communicated to those who were perfect,
was communicated to him by the Spirit of God, and was of such a nature
that it could be received only by those who have the Spirit. He then con-
trasts the natural, mth the spiritual man, exhibits the superiority of the
spiritual man in respect to understanding and authority of judgment, and
claims th^t character for himself. '
We have the mind of Christ,' says he ;
i. e. ' We are spiritual, being instructed by the Ploly Ghost, and qualified
to instruct even the perfect, and to judge and rebuke the carnal.' ^And,'
he proceeds, ' I, brethren, could not speak unto you as unto spiritual, but
as unto carnal'—evidently claiming for himself exemption from the charge
which he laid against those whom he thus undertook to reprove.
III. The obvious contrast between the passage in question, (Rom. 7:
7—25,) and* the description of the character and privileges of Christians,
which follows it, in the 8th chapter, requires the mterpretation we propose.
Our argument is this : It is acknowledged by all, that the 8th chapter de-
scribes the character and condition of Christians. We say, if this be true,
the 7th describes one who is not a Christian ; and this we show by a contrast
of the passages, placed in parallel columns, as follows :
EIGHTH CHAPTEK.
To be carnally minded is death. The
carnal mind is enmity against God.
They that are in the flesh cannot please
God. Ye are not in the flesh, but in the
spirit.
The law of the spirit of life hath
made me^free from the law of sin and
death. Ye have not received the spirit
of bondage again to fear.
SEVENTH CHAPTEK.
I am carnal, sold under sin.
I see a law in my members, warring
against the law of my mind, and bring,
ing me into captivity to the law of sin.
1 serve with the flesh the law of sin.
EIGHTH CHAPTER.
PAUL NOT CARNAL. 195
SEVENTH CHAPTER.
To will is present with me, but how
to -perform that which is good I find not.
For the good that I would, I do not
but the evil which I would not, that
I do.
O wretched man that I am! who
shall deliver me from the body of this
death 1
What the law could not do, in that it
was weak through the flesh, God send-
ing his own Son, condemned sin in the
flesh, that the righteousness of the law
might be fulfilled in us.
To be spiritually minded is life and
peace. We know that all things work
together for good to them that love God.
We are more than conquerors, through
him that hath loved us.
The accounts, then, of the two characters, stand thus. The man de-
scribed in the 7th chapter is carnal, sold under sin—led captive by a law
that wars against his own conscience and the law of God—of course under
condemnation—acting in every instance contrary to the dictates of his own
better nature—unutterably wretched. The man described in the 8th chap-
ter, is spiritually minded—not in the flesh—delivered from condemnation
free from the law of sin and death—having received, not the spirit of bon-
dage, but of adoption—in Christ—fulfilling the righteousness of the law
enjoying life and peace—confident that all tilings work for his good—^made
more than conqueror through Christ. One is dying—the other rising from
the dead. One is deaUng with the law in his ovm strength—the other is in
Christ, who is '
the end of the law.' In other words, one is under law^—the
other under grace ; one is a sinking sinner—the other a conquering Christiam
The contrast is too obvious, on the face of the language of the two passa-
ges, to need further commentary ; but we shall see more fully, in the fol-
lowing paragraph of our discussion, the design and bearing of this contrast,
with reJ^M^jj^e to the general argument of the whole epistle.
IV. Tme scope of the argument of the epistle requu'es the interpretation
we propose. The subject of the epistle is salvation by grace-^the gospel
' the power of God unto salvation, to every one that beheveth'—Christ our
justification and sanetificatio7i. 1; 16. As preliminary to an exhibition of
the way of salvation, the apostle proves the depravity of Jews and Gentiles.
1: 19—3: 20. The atonement is then set forth, and shown to be consistent
with support of law, as a ground of gratuitous justification. 3: 21—31. The
relations of that faith, w^hich is the condition of justification, are the subjects
of the 4th chapter. In the 5th chapter, the apostle mentions the prominent
blessings resulting from this mode of salvation—peace, hope, patience, ' the
love of God, shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Ghost which is c/iven to
us, (being the purchase of the blood of Christ, as truly as the pardon he
bestows,)—concluding with a contrast between the free gift of Clirist, and
the curse of Adam, in which he shows that the gift surpasses the curse,
of course that behevers are more than reinstated in the condition of Adam
before the fall. The 6th chapter begins with an inquiry concerning the
moral tendency of this method of salvation, whether sin is consistent with
the reception of the gift of grace ? Having answered this question, by as-
suming that the very profession of union to Christ implies final death to sm,
and resurrection to newness of life, in the 14th verse the apostle e^diibitg
19^3 PAUL NOT CARNAL.
the ground of the confidence which believers possess, of dehverance from
sin, in the fact that they are not under latv, but under grace; their salva-
tion depends, not on their own efforts to obey the law, but on the promised
grace of God m Christ. He proceeds to draw the contrast between a state
of sin, and a state of grace, making freedom from sin the test by which men
may know whether they are partakers of grace. Ver. 16. His argument
establishes this point: that under the gospel^ men are wholly shiful, or
wholly righteous. They that are servants of righteousness are free from sin,
in like manner as they that are the servants of sin are free from righteous-
ness. Vers. 18—20, &c. So that grace gives no license to sin ; for grace,
if it gives any thing, gives eternal life—redemption from the curse and
power of sin forever. In the first four verses of the 7th chapter, the apos-
tle shows how men come out from under the law, and enter upon a state of
grace : viz., by death, i. e. despair of salvation under the law. As a mar-
riage contract binds the parties for life, so a man's relations to the law re-
main as long as he lives. Death only can divorce him from the law, and
give him liberty of union to Christ. In the 6th verse, we have a brief state-
ment of the condemning, fatal influence of a law system, upon men in the
flesh. In the 6th verse, we have a parallel statement of the deliverance and
blessing of a state of grace. The contrast first suggested in the 14th verse
of the 6th chapter, between law and grace, is still pursued, with a view to
the development of the truth then intimated, that the moral tendency of a
gracious^ is far better than that of a legal system. In the 7th verse the
apostle takes up the principle stated in the 5th, and in the remainder of the
chapter exhibits, in detail, the process by which the law, which was ordained
unto Hfe, becomes, through the wickedness of men, the instrument of death.
In the 8th chapter, the idea suggested in the 6th verse of the 7th chapter,
is resumed and fully developed. The saving, sanctifying power of the gos-
pel system of grace is triumphantly exhibited ; Christ fully set forth as our
sanctifieation, as well as our justification.
Any one, who will dwell upon the general view of the argument of the
epistle thus sketched, will see without perplexity, the place and bearing of
the passage we have undertaken to expound. It stands in the midst of an
argument for the superiority of gra^ce to l.aw, as a means of deliy^ance frojn
sin ; evidently constituting one side of the contrast between the two systems.
The 8th chapter constitutes the other. On the one hand, we have the law,
instead of giving sanctification and salvation, aggravating the wickedness,
and securing the condemnation and death, of its subject. On the other hand,
we have grace in Christ Jesus, giving liberty and life, righteousness and eter-
nal redemption. The contrast is a commentary on the 14th verse of the
6th chapter—' Sin shall not have dominion over you ; for ye are not under
law, but under grace.'
To show the absurdity of that interpretation which regards the man de-
scribed in 7: 7—25, as a Christian, under that grace which delivers from the
dominion of sin, we quote a single clause, (recommending a reperusal of the
whole.) '
I find a law, that when I would do good, evil is present with me.'
Can it be imagined that the wretched man, who acknowledges himself, with-
PAUL NOT CARNAL. 197
out qualification, the bond slave of sin, is under that grace whose sanctify-
ing poAver the apostle is endeavoring to recommend ?
V. The intimations which Paul elsewhere gives, concerning his own moral
character, are inconsistent with the interpretation which regards the passage
in question as descriptive of his exercises as a Christian. In proof of this,
we quote the following passages. '
Herein do I exercise myself to have al-
ways a conscience void of offense toward God, and toward man.' Acts 24:
16. 'In (dl things approving ourselves the ministers of God—^by pureness
—^by the armor of righteousness, on the right hand, and on the left.' 2 Cor.
6: 4—^7. '
I am crucified with Christ ; nevertheless, I live ;
yet not I, but
Christ liveth in me ; and the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the
faith of the Son of God.' Gal. 2: 20. 'The world is crucified unto me, and
I unto the world.' Gah 6:14. 'For me to live is Christ.' Phil. 1: 21.
'Brethren, be followers together of me—for our conversation is in heaven.'
Phil. 3: 17—20. ' I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth
me.' Phil. 4: 13 ;
(comp. 7: 18, 'How to perform that which is good, I find
not.') ' The Father hath made us meet to be partakers of the inheritance of
the saints in light, w^ho hath delivered us from the power of darkness.' Col.
1: 12, 13. 'Ye are witnesses, and God also, how holily and justly and un-
blamably we behaved ourselves among you.' 1 Thess. 2: 19. ' I know whom
I have believed^ and am persuaded that he is able to keep that which I have
committed to him.' 2 Tim. 1: 12. '
I have fought a good fight, I have finish-
ed my course, I have kept the faith.' 2 Tim. 4: 7, &c.
If Pauljpould say these things of himself, and in the same breath declare,
' I am carnal, sold under sin—how to perform that w^hich is good, I find not
—I find a law, that when I would do good, evil is present with me,' &c. &c.,
we confess we see no method by which his consistency, or inspiration can be
maintained.
^
:»
KemarkS. 1. The interpretation which we have endeavored to present,
and sustain, is by no means new. It is often alleged, in favor of the ordi-
nary views of this, as of other passages, that they are the ancient and univer-
sal views of the Church. We will not dwell on the fallacy and wickedness
of such attempts to chain the Bible to tradition. But we deny the truth of
the allegation. The early Fathers, without exception, so far as is known,
down till the 5th century, regarded Bom. 7: 7'—25, as applicable, not to a
Christian, but to an unregenerate man. Augustine first proposed the oppo-
site interpretation, in the heat of a dispute with Pelagius, about natural de-
pravity. He had himself accorded with the Fathers and church of the first
ages of Christianity, in his views of the passage, and he changed his inter-
pretation, obviously to avoid defeat in an argument. Pelagius pressed him
with the expressions, '
I consent unto the law,' '
I dehght in the law,' &c.,
as proof of the existence of something morally good in the unregenerate
man. We have seen, on the contrary, that these very expressions, in the
mouth of one, who, in every instance, acts in opposition to the conviction
which they disclose, prove him to be unutterably depraved, a '
hyperbole of
wickedness.' '
So that Augustine, needlessly, as well as wickedly, resorted
to an interpretation, which the consent of the Fathers, and his own common
198 PAUL NOT CARNAL.
sense had before rojected. From him, tliis perversion of the word of God
soon gained extensive authority, prevailed over Christendom during the
darkness of the middle ages, and by tradition has come down to our day,
with all its damnable influence, a time-honored suggestion of Satan. Since
the daAvn of the Reformation, many distinguished interpreters, from time to
timo,*^iave returned to the original interpretation, and it is noAv the uniform
testimony of competent biblical students, that Rom. 7: 7—25, describes the
exercises of an unregenerate man. (For the authorities on which this re-
mark is founded, we refer to Stuart's commentary on the Epistle to the Ro-
mans. Excursus 6.)
2. It is often alleged, in favor of the prevailing interpretation of Rom. 7:
7—25, that the passage actually describes the exercises of true Christians,
whether the apostle designed such an application of it, or not. We deny
again the truth of the allegation. We fully concede that the description is
applicable to the exercises of those who are accounted, by themselves and
others, true Ohnstians : but it must be shown that they are so in fact, or
the allegation cannot stand. How then shall we ascertain this point ? By
traditions of the church ? By pubhc opinion ? By the feelings and hopes
of the persons whose character is in question ? Shall we, by any, or all of
these tests, determine that they are true Christians, and then try the word
of God by their exercises ? Or shall we take the ground of the apostle
* Let God be true and every. man a liar'—and leaving traditions, public opin-
ion, feelmgs and hopes, betake ourselves at once, and fearlessly, '
to the
word and to the testimony,' certainly believing, that there and ..there only,
we shall find a legitimate standard of Christian experience ? In a word,
shall we try the word of God by the exercises of supposed Christians, or
their exercises by the word of God ? For the benefit of those who regard
the testimony of Jehovah as paramount to the traditions and opinions of all
men, even of supposed saints, we cite the following passages, as presenting
his standard of Christian character.
^ Whosoever shall break one of the least of these commandments, and
teach men so, shall be called the least in the kingdom of heaven.' Matt. 5:
19. '
Not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the
Mngdom of heaven ; but he that doeth the will of my Father in heaven.' 7:
21. ' Verily, verily, I say unto you, he that committeth sin, is the servant
of sin.' John 8: 34. '
Not the hearers of the law are just before God, but
the doers of the law are justified.' Rom. 2: 13. 'Now if we be dead with
•Christ, we believe that we shall also live with him : knowing that Christ,
being raised from the dead, dieth no more; death hath no more dominion
over him. For in that he died, he died unto sin once : but in that he liveth,
he liveth unto God. Likewise reckon yourselves to be dead indeed unto sin,
but ahve unto God.' Rom. 6: 8—11. '
When ye were the servants of sin,
fcomp. John 8: 34, ' He that committeth sin is the servant of sin,'] ye were
free from righteousness : but now being made free from sin, ye have your
fruit unto holiness,' &c. Rom. 6: 20—22. '
If we say we have fellowship
^vith him, and walk in darkness^ we lie, and do not the truth.' 1 John 1: 6.
* He that saith, I know him, and keepeth not liis commandments, is a liar,
A HINT TO TEMPERANCE MEN. 199
and the truth is not in him.' 1 John 2: 4. * Whosoever abideth in him, sin-
neth not ; whosoever sinneth, hath not seen him, neither knoAvn him. Little
children, let no man deceive you; he that doeth righteousness, is righteous
even as he is righteous. He that committeth sin is of the devil. Whosoever
is born of God, doth not commit sin ; for his seed remaineth in him : and he
cannot sin, because he is born of God. In tJds the children of G(M are
manifest, and the children of the devil : whosoever doeth not righteousness,
is not of God.' 1 John 3: 6—10.
In view of the standard presented in these declarations of the Most High,
we say, without hesitation, the man who can adopt the language of Rom. 7:
T—25, as descriptive of his o^Yn exercises, is not a Christian. If he that
doeth not righteousness is not of God, and hereby the children of the devil
are manifest, surely the man who can say, '
How to perform that which is
good, I find not,' is a child of the devil.
Finally—Wo believe the common perversion of the passage we have en-
deavored to expound, has done more for the ruin of the church and the
damnation of souls, than any other single device of the adversaries of God.
The supposed exclamation of the holy apostle, '
! wretched man that I am,'
is the watch-word of wicked behevers—the defensive talisman of all who roll
sin as a sweet morsel under their tongues.
§26. A HINT TO TEMPERANCE MEN.
So long as the rulers of public opinion in the religious world, hold up the
7th chapter of Romans as the standard of legitimate Christian experience,.
it cannot be expected that vigorous and permanent advances will be made in
any department of moral reformation. The spiritual impotence there de-
scribed, if tolerated in the sanctuary of the church, will surely manifest it-
self with irresistible power of corruption, in all those classes of society which
surround the church, and depend on it for moralizing influences. If the
Christian, quickened by the grace of God, still allows himself to say in re-
gard to his religious obligations, '
The good that I would I do not, and the
evil I would not, that I do,' why should he not expect that the worldlings
around him, dead as they are in trespasses and sins, will exhibit equal or
greater laxity of principle, even in regard to their social and moral obliga-
tions ? The thief, as well as the Christian sinner, may say, by way of ac-
counting for his transgressions, '
I see a law in my members, warring against
the law of my mind and bringing me into captivity to the law of sin :'
and
if this is an admissible excuse for the one, so that he is justified before God,-
why should it not also shield the other from the judgment of man, and the -
-'
vengeance of the law ?
What avails it to preach against the various forms of external sin, while-
the great, radical vice of the heart, moral imhecility^ is openly tolerated, and ^'
200 A HINT TO TEMPERANCE MEN.
defended by the preachers themselves ? Yet this is just what a large por-
tion of our reUgious teachers are doing. They announce to the world that
they are slaves to sin, (according to the supposed apostolic model, in Rom.
7: 7—25,) powerless against temptation, approving and desiring to keep,
but invincibly prone to break the commandments of God ; and with this
groveling confession on their tongues, they turn upon ' poor sinners,' and
require them to keep the Sabbath, to abstain from profanity, lewdness and
intemperance, to forsake all their darling lusts, and lead a life of prayer
and benevolence. Surely, these are they who ' lade men with burdens
grievous to be borne, and they themselves touch not the burdens with one of
their fingers.'
Let us look for a moment at the bearing of this miserable mistake about
the 7th chapter of Romans, on the cause of temperance. Suppose that a
poor captive of alcohol, one who has broken all sorts of resolutions and
pledges under the pressure of appetite, in the anguish of a sober hour takes
up the Bible, and searches its pages for something applicable to his case.
He reads Rom. 7: 7—25, and finds in its language the very echo of his daily
experience. To accommodate it to his peculiar infirmity, he paraphrases it
thus :
'
I am carnal, sold under [the love of liquor.] That which I do [viz.
tippling,] I allow not : for what I would, [viz. keep my pledge,] that do I
not ; but what I hate, [viz. drunkenness,] that do I. If then I do that
which I would not, I consent unto the law^ [of the temperance society,] that
it is good. Now then it is no more I that do it, but [the love of liquor] that
dwelleth in me. For I know that in me, that is in my [rum-ruined] flesh,
dwelleth no good thing ; for to will [total abstinence] is present with me ;
but how to perform I find not ; for the good that I would, [viz. sober living,]
that do I not ; but the evil which I would not, [viz. tavern haunting,] that I
do. Now if I do that I would not, it is no more I that do it, but [the love
of liquor] that dwelleth in me. I find then a law that when I would [keep
sober, the rum botT;le] is present with me. For I delight in the [doctrines
of temperance] after the inward man ; but I see another law in my [stomach]
warring against the law of my mind and bringing me into captivity to the
[enchantments of alcohol.] wretched man that I am ! who shall deliver
me from [this brutal appetite ?'] The commentators tell the poor wretch
that Paul talked in this drivelling way all his days : his minister tells him so :"
all his Christian neighbors tell him so. He learns that this is the common
language of ' the saints' of the present day—' from the least of them even
unto the greatest.' How naturally he may say to himself, '
If Paul, the
best example of Christian energy, was thus morally impotent ; if all Christen-
dom thus unblushingly avows its slavery to sin, why should I think of
overcoming the lusts of the flesh ? Why should I be ashamed of the beastly
bondage in which I groan ?' Under the influence of such teachings and
reasonings, resolutions and pledges will be but chaff to the winds. We ven-
ture to predict that the temperance reformation will be nothing but a series
of splendid failures, till, either the church changes its doctrine on Rom. 7:
7—25, or the world leaves the church in the rear, adopts a new standard
of moral energy, and goes up to the battle against lust, in the strength of
Ood and of common sense.
§27. PAUL'S VIEWS OF LAW.
There is reason to believe that Paul thoroughly understood the great doc-
trines of Christianity ; and as his writings are chiefly doctrinal, and were
evidently designed to exhibit his entire system of theology, we may reasonar
bly expect to find in them, if any where, a satisfactory decision of the great
question, which has been so much agitated in modern times, respecting the
legitimate office of the law. There are indeed, as Peter observes, ' many
things in his epistles, hard to be understood ;' and it is needful, in order
that we may safely attempt to interpret him, that w^e prove ourselves by self-
examination, to be neither ' unlearned nor unstable.' That his doctrines
have been wrested by persons of this character, even to the destruction of
themselves and many others, is not to be doubted by any one who observes
the opposite extremes, into which modern cfeputants about law have run.
With some, Paul's whole doctrine on the subject seems to be crowded into
that one saying '
Ye are not under laiv^ but under grace ;'
and all the
limitations of that saying, which are found elsewhere in his writings and
practice, are carefully kept out of view\ With others, he is allowed to
speak for himself only in that other saying '
Do we then make void the law
through faith ? God forbid : yea, we establish the laiv ;' and whatever else
he has said that runs counter to the apparent meaning of this, is either wres-
ted into agreement with it, or condemned as antinomianism. Bearing in
mind that there are in all cases, at least ttvo wrong ways, and only owe right
one, and that the right way generally lies between the two wrong ones, we
propose to pass in review all the passages in the writings of Paul, which
seem to have any direct bearing on the subject of law,—adding such re-
marks as, in our judgment, they demand. ^
I. The Epistle to the Romans. It will be impossible in the compass to
which we are lunited, and indeed it is unneccessary, to cjuote the entire ar-
gument of the apostle in this epistle, extending as it does through eleven
chapters. We shall simply give an abstract of the long and general pas-
sages referring to law^, and connect them by quoting such as are shorter and
more pointed.
^
In the second chapter, and a part of the third, to ver. 19, Paul proves that
all men are condemned by law ; the Jews by the law of Moses, and the
Gentiles by the law of nature. ' Therefore,' says he, 'by the deeds of the
law, shall no flesh be justified in his sight ; for hy the law is the knoivledge
of sin. But now the righteousness of God, ivithout the law^ is manifested,
being witnessed by the law and the prophets.' Chap. 3: 20, 21. We
notice here tAvo points: 1, that the office of the law is conviction^ and not
justification ; 2, that the righteousness of God, revealed in the gospel, is
independent of the law. After showing that this righteousness excludes
^
boasting in the Jews, because it is independent of their law, and because it
is the righteousness of Qod—who is God of the Gentiles as well as the Jews
—^he asks, ' Do we then make void the law through faith ? God forbid ; yea,
25
202
we establish the la^Y.' Ver. 31. If this last assertion rests, for its proof, on
any thing that has gone before it, it must be on one or both of these two
things, viz : 1, the law is estabhshed by the righteousness of God, because
the law and the prophets '
witnessed' that righteousness, and so their testi-
mony is established by it ; and 2, the law is estabhshed, because the right-
eousness of God of course perfectly /?//^7s the laAV, though it be independcEt
of it. There is nothing here from which it can be argued that the law is
estahUshed as a Queans of producing righteousness. On the contrary, this
is plahily denied in what goes before ; and if true, would utterly subvert the
apostle's argument.
The case of Abraham i& next taken up and tried by the principles which
have been stated. Qlie apostle concludes his argument thus : —' The promise
that he should be the heir of the world, was not to Abraham, oi to his seed,
through the law, but through the righteousness of faith. For if they which
are of the laiv he heirs, faith is made void, aiid the promise made of none
effect : because the law worketh wrath : for where 7io law is, there is no
transgression.'' 4: 13—15. We perceive that Paul's object here, as before,
is to clear the ' righteousness of faith' of all dependence on the law. More-
over, he shows that the law is established, not by being made a means of
producing righteousness, but by giving place to a righteousness which is in-
dependent of it : since, if the righteousness of believers depended on law,
the law and promise both would be made void ; because thelaiv pjroduces no
righteousness, but its opposite, wrath. Let the reader notice the increasing
plamness of Paul's language about the operation of law. In the preceding
chapter he simply says, ' By the law is the knowledge of sin.' Here he de-
clares more positively that '
the law worketh wrath ;' evidently meaning the
opposite of obedience. In the next chapter-—and in the next passage that
need be noticed in this examination—^he goes still further, by affirming that
' THE LAW ENTERED, THAT THE OFFENSE MIGHT ABOUND.' 5: 20. We haV8
here an unequivocal statement of his views of the legitimate office of law,
and of God's design in employing it. With such views, Paul consistently
held, as we have seen, that the true way to establish the law is to remove it,
and put the righteousness of God in its place ; and the true way to mdlify
the law is to continue its condemning operation, and so perpetuate trans-
gression.
In the next passage referring to the subject of law, we find the application
of the foregoing principles: 'jSin shall not have dominion over you; Fos,
YE ARE NOT UNDER THE LAW, BUT UNDER GRACE.' 6: 14. If they were
under law there would be no hope of their deliverance ; because '
by the law
is the knowledge of sin'
—' the law worketh wrath'—' the law entered, that
the offense might abound.'
The apostle here introduces by a question, the most iiatural objection to
his doctrine : ' Shall we sin, because we are not under the law, but under
grace V His answer, rightly understood, most effectually closes the mouths
of those who might be disposed thus to pervert his language. *
Know ye
not, that to whom ye yield yourselves servants to obey, his servants ye are
to whom ye obey ; whether of sin unto death, or obedience unto righteous-
Paul's views op laav. 208
ness ?' The word 'yield,'* in this passage, describes the initial act of sur-
render. The expression, '
Jiis servants ye are^ describes the bondage which
is the consequence. The first part of the passage may be paraphrased thus
'
Know ye not, that after ye have let yourselves to service, ye are no longer
your oion masters f Peter expresses the same idea, (2epis. 2: 19,)—' Of
whom a man is overcome, of the same is he brought in bondage. "*
The prin-
ciple involved in these sayings is familiar to some theologians. We have fre-
quently heard preachers labor to prove, that after a man has once given him-
self up to the power of sin, he has no longer in himself the moral ability to
break his bondage, and can be released only by a higher power than that
which enslaves him. It is true this principle is commonly applied to the
power of evil ; but with equal propriety it may be apphed to the power of
good ; and so Paul actually applies it. ' Know ye not, that to whom ye let
yourselves, his servants ye are, whether of sin unto death, or of obedience
tmto righteousness f Extending the application of Peter's saying to good,
as well as to evil, Paul would say—' If a man is overcome of Satan, he is
brought in bondage to Satan. Jf he is overcome of G-od, he is brought in
bondage to Grod.^ Now it is fairly implied in the language which occasioned
the question under consideration, that believers have been overcome of God
—have let themselves to him. Paul does not say simply, ' Ye are not under
law ;' he adds—' but under grace :"*
and that addition amounts to this
—' Ye have surrendered yourselves to God, and are no longer your own
masters.' ^
Being made free from sin,' says he in a subsequent verse, ' ye
v^QVG enslaved* to righteousness.' We may perceive, then, the pertinence
of his answer and the safety of his doctrine. Whoever is ' under grace,*
being '
enslaved to righteousness,' has no disposition, and of course no moral
power, to take advantage of the fact that he is ' not under law,' for sinful
purposes. Whoever is not '
under grace,' has no authority from the lan-
guage of Paul, to say he is ' not under law.' To such, his language is not
addressed. If they apply it to themselves, * and pervert it to serve their
lusts, they do it at their own peril. Paul is not responsible.
That none may mistake in this matter, and suppose themelves /r^e /ro??*
laiv, while yet they are not under grace, Paul next proceeds to point out the
only legitimate way of obtaining a divorce from the law. ' Know ye not,
brethren, (for I speak to them that know the law,) how that the law hath do-
minion over a man as long as he liveth? For the woman which hath an husband
is bound by the law to her husband, so long as he liveth ; but if her husband
be dead, she is loosed from the law of her husband. So then, if while her
husband liveth, she be married to another man, she shall be called an adul-
teress : but if her husband be dead, she is free from that law, so that she is
no adulteress, though she be married to another man. Wherefore, my breth-
ren, ye also are become dead to the law by the body of Christ ; that ye
should be married to another, even to him who is raised from the dead, that
* This is the most literal translation of the original. The critical reader will observe
that, throng-hout the passage in question, (from ver. 17—22,) the apostle describes the
bondage of believers to righteousness, in the very words with which he describes the bon-
dage of the ungodly to sin. His language plainly coaveys tlie idea that the binding
power is as strong in one case as in the other.
204
we should bring forth fruit unto God.' 7: 1—4. We observe upon tins—
1. The figure employed by the apostle, impUes that a man cannot be joined
to the law and to Christ at the same time. 2. That as men, in the first place
are joined to the law /or life^ they can only be released from their relation to
it, hy death. 3. That bchevers are released by fellowship with the death of
Christ. For an explanation of the clause ' Ye are become dead to the law
hy the body of Christ,^ we refer to the beginning of the preceding chapter.
' Know ye not, that so many of us as were baptized into Jesus Christ, were
baptized into his death T &c. 6: 3. /is the death of Christ's body is the
death of those who are baptized (or immersed^ in him, they, and they only^
of the inhabitants of this world, are released from the law. And because they
are also dead to sin by their immersion in Christ, (see 6: 2, &c.,) they are
released from the law without the danger of licentiousness. Taking then, the
passage which has been so much stumbled at
—' Ye are not under the law,
but under grace,' (6: 14)—in its connection with what goes before and what
follows it, (7: 1,) we see it amounts to this :
'
Ye are not under law, but are
lawfully divorced from it, by that spiritual baptism into Christ which has
released you from sin.' Who but a reprobate can pervert this doctrine to
purposes of wickedness ?
We come next to a conclusive illustration of the fatal effects of the law,
by Paul's own experience. Bearing in mind the prominent points of his doc-
trine which we have already reviewed, viz, '
by the law is the knowledge of
sin'—' the law worketh wrath'—' the law entered that the offence might
abound' ''
ye are not under the law, but under grace;'—justified as they
are, and defended from perversion, by the proof that they do not ^make void,
but establish the law,' no candid inquirer for truth can possibly mistake
Paul's meaning in the famous passage which closes the seventh chapter.
Without wasting words to prove that this passage describes an unregenerate
state, we shall notice only its testimony concerning law. That testimony may
be reduced to the following propositions : —1. The laiv is the great occasion of
sin. 2. Yet the lata is holy, just ayid good. To illustrate the former, he
gives an account of his own experience, first when he was without law, and
secondly after he came under law. His story in brief, is this. Before he
knew the law, he was comparatively guiltless ; but as soon as he came under
law, sin began to manifest its power within him, and a struggle commenced
between his conscience and his carnal propensities, in which, the proper influ-
ences of the law were constantly defeated, and that which should have per-
suaded him to obedience, was turned into an occasion of transgression. To
establish the s^t'owcZ proposition—and so guard his readers against the impres-
^on wliich they might otherwise receive from his illustration of the first, and
from many things which we have noticed in the former part of the epistle,
viz. that he attributed evil to the law—^lie carefully explains the process by
wliich the law aggravates sin, and clearly] shows, 1, that the law, instead of
participating in the guilt of sinners, exposes, and reproves it ; 2, that sin per-
verts the law from its proper design into a stumbling-block, and by thus
making good an occasion of evil, magnifies its own sinfulness, without casting
any blame on the law j 3, that in this very process of perversion, the noblest
Paul's views of law. 205
(tliougli the weakest) part of his nature took sides with the law : so that he
actually acknowledged and connnended its holiness, while he was converting
it into an occasion of sin. We must refer the reader to the whole passage it-
self, for a verification of this analysis. /
We learn from all the evidence now before us, that Paul was a warm
friend of the law. He insists that it is holy, just, and good, vmdicates it
from all accusation, and shows that full provision is made in the gospel, for
the perfect fulfilment of its claim. Indeed the very earnestness with which
he argues for its abandonment, as a means of producing righteousness, is
the best proof of his aifection for it. Knowing by his own experience, that
the law is too weak for successful conflict with sin, and knowing also that an-
other and a mightier champion 'of righteousness is in the field, ready to take
its place, and able to win its battles, how could he testify his friendship for
it otherAvise than by rescuing it from the officiousness of those, its misguided
advocates, who would honour it by thrusting it into a needless, unequal, and
self-destroying war ? His friendship was so faithful that he dared to succor
^
the law, by removing it, and bringing in an omnipotent substitute.
Every parent knows that an attempt to control the will of a child, which,
by the iyiefficieney of the influences employed, proves unsuccessful^ not only
.avails nothing, but actually feeds and strengthens the spirit of disobedience^
On this principle, Paul deprecates, as we have seen, the employment of the
law, as a means of producing obedience to God. His objection lies not-
against the moral character of the law, but against its inefficiency. Having
clearly manifested that inefiiciency in the Tth chapter, he proceeds in the
8th to contrast with it the efficiency and complete success of the substitute
which the gospel proposes. '
What the law could not do, in that it was weak
through the flesh, God, sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh,
and for sin, condemned sin in the flesh ; that the righteousness oe the.
LAW might be fulfilled in us, who walk not after the flesh, but after the //
spirit.' 8: 3, 4. The ohject proposed in substituting Christ for the law, as-
hore distinctly declared, is such as fully redeems Paul's doctrine from the
charge of antinomianism. And the means employed will be condemned only
by those Avho dissent from his views of the weaJg7iess of the law. If his phi-
losophy on this subject can be shown to be false, if it can be proved that the
law is able to secure the righteousness which it requires, Paul will be con-
victed of antinomianism—not indeed in intent, but in efiect ; and moreover,
God will be convicted of sending his Son in vain. But if his philosophy be
sound, all those advocates of the law who ignorantly plead for its employ-
ment as an influence to produce obedience—and so virtually condemn Paul,
as its enemy—will finally be convicted themselves of the most fatal antino-
mianism, in the very zeal of their legahty.
In the conclusion of the 9th chapter and in the beginning of the 10th, we
find a striking illustration of the truth of Paul's theory. '
The Gentiles,
which followed 7iot after righteousness, hme attained to righteousness, even
to the righteousness which is of faith. But Israel, which followed after the
law of righteousness, hath not attained to the law of righteousness. Where-
fore ? Because they sought it not by faith^ but as it were by the works of
206 Paul's views of law.
the law. .... I bear them record, that they have a zeal of God, but not
according to knowledge. For they being ignorant of God's righteousness,
and going about to estabhsh their own righteousness, have not submitted
themselves to the righteousness of God.' 9: 31, 32, 10: 2, 3. We here
perceive thdui facts fully bear out Paul in the paradox which he maintains ;
viz,, that cleaving to the law, defeats the law—and forsaking it for Chrisfs
sake., fulfils it. The Jews, being by their previous education a nation of
legalists, as a body rejected the gospel, because it set aside the law which
they adored. Their very zeal for righteousness, because it was not accor-
ding to knowledge, made Christ ^ a stumbling-stone and a rock of offense
;'
and so put away from them the only source of righteousness. While the
Gentiles, being hindered by no such attachment to the law, readily received
Christ and by him attained righteousness.
The next and last passage in this epistle which requires to be noticed, is
well worthy to stand as a summary of Paul's whole doctrine. 'Christ is
THE END OF THE LAW FOR RIGHTEOUSNESS, TO EVERY ONE THAT BELIEV-
ETH.' 10: 4. The meaning of the word ^end^ in this passage, is clearly
determined by our previous developments. If '
the law worketh wrath,'
Christ must be its termination, before righteousness can come in. If the
reader will observe the four following things, he will have no» occasion to
stumble at this construction. 1, Paul does not say an antinomian theory is
the end of the law : 2, h-e does not say Christ is the end of the law for
lieetitiousness : 3, he does not say Christ is the end of the law to every hody :
but 4, he does say, '
Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to
every one that believeth.'
Now lest any one should say, (according to the popular mode of evading
the reasoning of Paul in this matter,) that the whole discourse which we have
reviewed, refers not to the moral, but to the Jeivish law, it may be well to
cast a rapid glance over the whole ground again. The first passage which
we specially noticed—' Therefore by the deeds of the law shall no flesh be
justified ; for by the law is the knowledge of sin,' &c., (3: 20,)—is the con-
clusion of an argument which refers to the Gentiles and the law of nature,
as well as to the Jews and the law specially given to them. Moreover, the
power of conviction which is ascribed to the law in the last clause, deter-
mines its nature. Paul evidently refers to any and all law which operates
on the conscience ; and to the Jewish laAv specially, only because that law is
distinguished from others by the degree, and not the nature, of its operation.
The righteousness of God is ' ivithout that law^ by w^iich is the knmuledge
of si7i, whether it be Jewish or Gentile. We have in this first instance, a
clue to Paul's meaning in his whole subsequent argument. Speaking to
them that knew the Jewish law, it was natural that he should make that law
the representative of all others, and leave the general application of his reas-
^ oning to the good sense of his readers. If the Jewish law 'worketh WTath'
causing '
the offense to abound,' insomuch that the promise to Abraham, and
the salvation of the gospel were necessarily made independent of it a
fortiori, that promise and that salvation must be independent of any law
whose sanctions arc inferior to those of the Jewish. His reasoning in the
OF LAW. 2§T
Ith chapter, where he shows how and why the law worketh wrath, expressly
refers to that law which says, '•Thou shall not covet.'* 7: 7. It will hardly
be pretended that this is exclusively a Jewish law.- The precept mentioned,
certainly stands in that decalogue which is generally held to be of universal
apphcation ; and Paul's illustration of the effects of that precept on himself,
shows that m his view, the decalogue, above all other law, ' worketh wrath.'
Moreover, all that he says about ' establishing the law,' (3: 31,) and
' fulfilling the righteousness of the law,' (8: 4, &c.,)- proves that he had in
his mind, not the external law of the Jews, but that spiritual (see 7: 14)
and eternal law of righteousness which applies equally to all moral beings :
for that only is established and fulfilled in the gospel.. Finally, in connection
with the last passage noticed in our review, we find the following definition
of legal righteousness, which fully determines the nature of that law of Avhich
Christ is the termination :
—' Moses describeth the righteousness which is of
the law, That the man which doeth those things shall live by them.' 10: 5,
Whereas the righteousness of the gospel, as the apostle proceeds to declare,
calls upon men simply to believe and confess. Faith, in the gospel, stands
contrasted with doing, in the law. Of course Christ is the end of all that
sort of law, whether Jewish or Gentile, which sets men upon doing instead
of believing.
Another common method of evading the conclusions to which the Epistle
to the Romans naturally leads, is to refer all Paul says about the inefficiency
and death-working influence of the law, to the subject oi justification merely,
and not to personal righteousness. Many are ready to agree with Paul, that
the law has nothing to do with justification, while they still insist upon em-
ploying it as an influence to produce obedience. In answer to this, it may
be observed, that Paul no where makes the vast distinction between justifica-
tion and sanctification, which is so prominent in many systems of divinity^
He refers both to the operation of the same spirit of life, and so identifies
them, that none but a scholastic imagination can tell where, in the epistle to
the Romans, his discourse on justification ends, and where that on sanctifi-
cation begins. At all events, his doctrine about the law is the same, without
a single contrary suggestion, in the 6th, 7th and 8th chapters—which man-
ifestly refer to sanctification—as it is in those preceding chapters which are
supposed to refer more particularly to justification. Indeed he lays out most
of his strength in the 7th chapter, directly to prove and illustrate the de-
structive influence of the law oil personal character ; and in the 8th chapter
he expressly declares that the fulfilling of '
the righteousness of the lata
IN us,' is that which '
the law could not do,'* and that for which God sent
his Son.
II. The Epistle to the Galatians. After the usual address and
benediction, the apostle commences this epistle thus :
'
I marvel that ye are
80 soon removed from him that called you into the grace of Christ, unto an-
other gospel : which is not another ; but there be some that trouble you, and
would pervert the gospel of Christ. But though we, or an angel from
heaven, preach any other gospel unto you than that which we have preached
y.nto you, let him be accursed. As we said before, so say I now again, if
208 Paul's views of law.
any man preacli any other gospel unto you than that ye have received, let
him be accursed.' This is truly a portentous introduction. We naturally
expect the disclosure of some awful departure from truth. IModern notions
of heresy prompt us to ask '
Is it Universalism, or Unitarianism, or New
Haven divinity, or Perfectionism, or Antinomianism, that has invaded and
desolated the Galatian church, and thus called forth the thunders of apostolic
indignation V But the views that have already been suggested in this ex-
amination, are fitted to check all such surmises, and point us to an . error
more radical, practical, plausible, and destructive, than any that are men-
tioned in these dftys. In the epistle to the Romans Paul exhibits in a didac-
tic form the system of theology which he calls his gospel; (Rom. 16: 25 ;)
and we have seen that gospel summed up in the comprehensive saying,
^Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to every one that helieveth.*
The heresy which most naturally arraj^s itself against this gospel, and when
successful, most completely subverts it, is legality. The acknowledged
goodness of the law furnishes a pretext, and natural unbelief the disposition,
to reject a gospel which makes an end of the law as a guide to righteousness,
and demands faith in an invisible spirit. Accordingly we have seen all but
a remnant of the Jewish nation, rejecting Christ for the law's sake : and we
might anticipate that the first and worst heresy which would break out among
those who professed to receive Christ, would be legality—a disposition to re-
turn from Christ to the law. Such, we shall find, w^as actually the heresy
which drew from Paul the redoubled anathema with which the epistle before
us commences.
After certifying the Galatians that he received his gospel directly from
Christ, and instead of being instructed by the other apostles, had communi-
cated the gospel to them—he mentions his reproof of Peter for succumbing
to the legality of certain Jewish behevers, and thence takes occasion in the
conclusion of the second chapter to make a brief, summary statement of those
great principles concerning law and grace, w^hich are more largely discussed
in the epistle to the Romans. '
Knowing that a man is not justified by the
works of the law, but by the faith of Jesus Christ, even we have believed
in Jesus Christ, that we might be justified by the faith of Christ, and not
by the works of the law : for by the works of the law shall no flesh be jus-
tified. But if, while we seek to be justified by Christ, w^e ourselves also are
found sinners, is therefore Christ the minister of sin ? [i. e., if we adopt the
previous doctrine as a mere theory, and seek to be justified by the faith of
Christ—not by being immersed in him, and so putting on his righteousness
but by an imaginary imputation of his righteousness to us, while we still re-
main ourselves in sin ; or if, after having been immersed in him, we return
from the Spirit to the law, and thus again become sinners, is Christ respon-
sible ?] God forbid. [Christ is responsible only for those who have lawfully
abandoned the law, by entering into an everlasting spiritual union with him-
self.] For if I build again the things which I destroyed, I make myself
a transgressor. [Any one who intelli^gently seeks to be justified by Christ,
first destroys his own righteousness, which is of the law, and thus dying to
sin, becomes a vessel of Christ's righteousness. If one who professes to
r Paul's views of law. 209
have done this is afterwards found a sinner, it is proof that he has ceased to
be a vessel, and has become Ms own man again—and of course proof that
there was some defect in his initial act of surrender.] For I through the
law am dead to the law, that I might live unto God. [Such is the legiti-
mate position of one who seeks to be justified by Christ ; and in this position
sin is impossible. A man must separate himself from God and revert to the
law, and so build the things he once destroyed, before he can become a
sinner.] I am crucified with Christ : nevertheless I live : yet not 1, hut
Christ liveth in me : [Christ is not a sinner;] and the life which I now live
in the flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God, who loved me and gave
himself for me. I do not frustrate the grace of God : for if righteousness
come hy the law^ then Christ is dmd in vain."* Gal. 2: 16—21. We have
here our old theory that the law is the great occasion of sin, and that death
to the law by union to Christ, is the only way of salvation from sin^ For
the violation of these principles the apostle proceeds to rebuke the Galatians.
' foolish Galatians, who hath bewitched you, &c.—This only would I learn
of you, Received ye the Spirit by the works of the law, or by the hearing
of faith ? Are ye so foolish ? having begun in the spirit, are ye now made
perfect by the flesh ? Have ye sufiered so many things in vain? if it be yet in
vain. He therefore that ministereth to you the Spirit, and worketh miracles
among you, doeth he it by the works of the law, or by the hearing of faith?*
Gal. 3: 1—5. The apostle 'Kppeals to the plain fact that they received
the Spirit originally without any reference to the law, and that the minis-
tration of the power of the gospel among them was independent of the law,
as proof that their legality was heresy and apostasy. He then shows that in
like manner the original gifts to the Jews through Abraham, were made in-
dependent of the law—1, by the language of the covenant ; 2, by the fact
that the covenant was for all nations ; 3, by the condemning nature of that
law ; 4, by the testimony of the law itself that the just shall live by faith ;
5, by the fact that the covenant was given before the law. Gal. 3: 6—18.
' Wherefore then serveth the law T [Here is the grand difficulty of his doc-
trine.] Ans. 'It was added for the sake of transgressions, till the seed
should' come, to whom the promise was made.' 19. The EngUsh translators
have obscured the meaning of this last verse, by using the equivocal expres-
sion 'because of transgressions,' instead of the more literal translation of
' Charin parabaseon^ which we have given. Perhaps they dared not let
Paul speak for himself, for fear that the unlearned and unstable might stum-
ble at his doctrine. We admit the original might bear the construction they
have given it, if other considerations required it ; but it is evident that other
considerations require the literal translation which we have given ; 1, because
Paul has before proved, repeatedly and abundantly, that the only efiect of
the law is to increase transgression ; and it is not to be supposed that the all-
wise God instituted it for any other purpose than that which it is actually
fitted to eflect ; 2, because Paul has in one instance at least before, expressly
declared, that Hhe law entered that the offense might abound.^ Bom. 5: 20.
Holding as w^e know he did that Hhe strength of sin is the laiv, (see 1 Cor.
15: bQ.^ what folly, what self-contradiction would it be for him to say that
26
210 l^AUL*S VIEWS OF tAW.
the law was added to prevent or diminish sin ! His doctrine manifestly is,
that God having sccured^the inheritance of salvation to Abraham, and his
seed, by hanging it, not on tlie law, nor the works of man, but on his own
simple promise—and having appointed a future time for the execution of the
promise by the revelation of Christ, the promised seed—introduced the law,
as a sort of parenthesis in the transaction, occupying the interval between
the promise and its execution, not for the superfluous purpose of anticipating
the work of Christ, m. the etsablishment of righteousness, nor yet for the
suicidal purpose of subverting the original promise to Abraham, by estabhsh-
ing hopeless transgression; but for the wise and necessary purpose of in-
creasing the intensity and bitterness of sin, for a limited period, that he
might thus awake a hungering for righteousness, and prepare the way for its
revelation at the appointed time. Observe the apostle does not say simply
* the law was added for the sake of transgressions ;' he adds Hill the seed
should come, to whom the promise was made.' Again ;
'
The law entered
that the offense might abound.-—But where sin abounded grace did much
more abound ;' i. e. by the subsequent revelation of Christ. The time of
the evil wrought by the law, was limited, and the good that followed it was
surpassing and without end. Moreover, the law by causing the offense to
abomid for a season, was not the enemy, but the servant of him who after-
wards caused the offense to cease ; for Paul says in a passage which we have
already noticed in this epistle^
—' I THROUGH the law am dead to the law,
that I might live unto God.' Gal. 2: 19. Turning to the account of his ex-
perience in the 7th chapter of Romans, we see the truth of this saying.
Through the latv, he was made to despair of righteousness under the law,
and so was driven to Christ. So that the evil effected by the law, is self-
limited, and subservient to the righteousness that follows it.
The case may be stated and justified thus. Man has a disease which God
has engaged to cure. The disease is such, that if left to its natural course,
it will slowly consume and finally destroy life. It can be cured by being first ag-
gravated and brought to a crisis, and then skillfully managed with restorative
applications. God has two medicines. One of them is violent and inflam-
matory in its operation. He gives this first to increase the disease, and
drive it forward to the desired crisis. The other is mild and nourishing,
but useless to the patient in the premature stage of his disease. He gives
this at the point where the operation of the former is complete, and so effects
a cure. It would be folly and cruelty to give the restorative first ; and it
would be equally fooHsh and cruel to give the inflammatory medicine after
the cure is effected. Giving each in its proper time, God manifests his
wisdom and benevolence.
That we have not misinterpreted Paul in his answer to the question,
' Wherefore then serveth the law?' is further evident from what next follows.
Having said that ' the law was added for the sake of transgressions,' this ob-
jection naturally occurs :
' Is the law then against the promises of God ?'
for it would seem at first view, that anything that increases sin must tend to
defeat the promise. Paul answers, '
God forbid ; for if there had been a
law given that could have given life, verily righteousness should have been
p paul'3 views op law. 211
by the law.' 3: 21. God's only object in tlie whole matter, was to execute
the covenant ; and if he could have done it by the law, he would have spared
his Son. If the disease could have been cured by the first medicine, it
would have been folly in the physician to torment himself and his patient
with a second.
' But the scripture hath concluded all under sin, that the promise by faith
of Jesus Christ might be given to them that beUeve.' Ver. 22. There was a
necessity that an outward law should first shut all men up in the prison of sin,
before there could be such a demand for a Savior as would give value and
efficacy to his service. We find a parallel and perhaps a clearer statement
of this idea in Rom. 11: 32—'God hath concluded them all in unbelief, that
he might have mercy upon all.' Mercy is for the lost ; and as the mercy of
the gospel requires to be desired and embraced on the part of the sinner in
order to become available, it is necessary not only that men should be lost,
but also that they should be sensible of the fact. The law effects this prepa-
ration for the gospel—1, by revealing, and 2, by increasing sin. '
But be-
fore faith came, we were kept under the law, shut up unto the faith which
should afterwards be revealed.' The law, by revealing and increasing sin,
leaves no way of escape but through Christ ; so that the saints under the
Jewish dispensation lived only by the /wpe of future grace. The law con-
stantly drove them from itself to that hope ; and that hope jomed them to
the Lord. They had not the perfect faith and hfe of the gospel ; but they
had a faith and life of the same kind, sufficient for a refuge from hopeless
condemnation. Othermse the law would have destroyed them. '
Wherefore
the law was our schoolmaster to bring us unto Christ, that we might be justi-
fied by faith. But after that faith is come, we are no longer under a school-
master.' Ver. 24, 25. The business of the law is to drive us to Christ j and
there its office ceases.
In the remainder of the epistle, Paul amplifies and illustrates in several
ways the foregoing positions. First he compares the state of the Jews undef
the law, to that of habes^ '
difiering nothing from servants,' and declares that
the object of the gospel was to release them from the dominion of 'tutors and
governors,' and place them in the position of sotis. Afterwards he presents
the same great idea, in an allegorical form, comparing the subjects of the law
to Ishmael, the son of a bond-maid, and the subjects of the gospel to Isaac,
the son of a free-woman. The moral of his allegory is, that the law, (viz.
the decalogue^ for that w^as the chief message from Sinai,) 'gendereth to bon-
dage,' and the gospel to liberty. He intersperses his arguments with most
earnest expostulations with the Galatians, for their legality, and concludes
with many exhortations like the following :
' Stand fast in the liberty.
Brethren, ye have been called unto liberty, only use not liberty for an occor
sion to the flesh.—Walk in the Spirit.—If ye be led by. the Spirit, ye are
not under the law.—The fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, &c. ; against
such there is no law.''
If the preceding sketch shall help the'reader to a view of the drift and
spirit of the epistle to the Galatians, our object will be gained. We think it
is sufficiently manifest that legality was the heresy which made occasion for
212
the anathemas and invectives with which it abounds. As this is the only one
of Paul's epistles in which he makes it his maiii object to expose and sup*
press doctrinal error, we must conclude either that he was a very superficial
theologian, and had never discovered the main avenues of error, or that le-
gality is, as he represents it, the heresy of heresies.
III. 1 Tim. 1: 5—11. " Now the end of the commandment is charity,
out of a pure heart, and of a good conscience, and of faith unfeigned : from
which some having swerved, have turned aside unto vain jangling, desiring to
be teachers of the law ; understanding neither what they say, nor whereof
they affirm. But we know that the law is good, if a man use it lawfully ;
knowing this, that the law is not made for a righteous man, but for the law-
less and disobedient, for the ungodly and for sinners, for unholy and profane,
for murderers of fathers and murderers of mothers, for manslayers, for whore-
mongers, for them that defile themselves with mankind, for men-stealers, for
liars, for perjured persons, and if there be any other thing that is contrary
to sound doctrine, according to the glorious gospel of the blessed God."
This passage is the beginning of Paul's charge to one who had been his
pupil in the gospel, and was just entering upon the ministry. The reader
cannot fail to notice that it perfectly coincides with and confirms the views
presented under our last head. The first and chief heresy against which
Paul thought it necessary to caution Timothy, was not Universalism, or Uni-
tarianism, or New Haven divinity, or Perfectionism, or Antinomianism, but
LEGALITY.
The meaning of the word ' end'' in the first verse, is clearly determined by
the considerations which were presented in connection with Rom. 10: 4.
(See p. 206.) As '
Christ is the termination of the law /or righteousness,^
so 'charity, out of a pure heart, and of a good conscience, and of faith un-
feigned,' (which is but an analysis of righteousness, and of Christ,) is the
termination of the law.* The main idea in both passages is that presented
in Gal. 3: 25—'After that faith is come, we are no longer under a school-
master.' Indeed we need not go beyond this passage itself, to find a dem-
onstration of the truth of the interpretation proposed. After declaring that
' charity &c. is the end of the commandment,' Paul proceeds to caution Tim-
othy against those who ' desired to he teachers of the lazv.^ What was their
error ? Plainly that of desiring to teach what ought not to be taught, because
its end had come. This very plainly appears by what follows, viz:
—' the law
is not made for a righteous man ;' which is as much as to say righteous-
ness is the termination of the law. This amounts to the very thing which is
* We observe Prof. Robinson defines the word translated end in these passages, in one
case as we Iiuve done, and in the other, according to the more popular interpretation.
On Rom. 10: 4, he says, Telos is *
one who puis an end to any thing- one who abolishes.*
He remnrks however, that ' others here consider tclos as signifying oneicho accomplishes
or completes any thing,' &c. On I Tim. 1: 5, he says, telos means '
the end, i. e. the abject,
the principal point, the sum of any thing/ We take the liberty to difier from the learned
professor in the last case, tor the very reason that leads us. to agree with him in the
former. Since the first and principal meaning of tclos is termination. We are bound thus
to interpret it, unless the context and the analogy of faith require a different interpreta-
tion ; whereas we find the context and the analogy of faith in the case of 1 Tim. 1: 5, as
well as of Rom. 10: 4, unequivocally demanding the primary and most literal significa-^
tion of the word in question.
Paul's views of law. 213
said in the first verse, according to the construction which we have given it.
Moreover, nobody can reasonably object to the sentiment, that the command-
ment ends where ^ charity out of a pure heart, and a good conscience, and
faith unfeigned,' begins ; for surely the claim of the law is fully satisfied by
these elements of righteousness, and Paul's declaration simply amounts to
this—the commandment ends where its fulfilment begins. As he has before
proved in (Rom. and Gal.) that the converse of this declaration is true, i. e.
wJdle the law continues^ its fulfilment cannot begin, any one who objects will
do well to consider the alternative which the case presents. Which is better,
to have the law ivithout righteousness, or righteousness without the law ? The
truth is, no one really objects to the sentiment under consideration. The
contention of those who take upon them to cudgel antinomianism, is not with
Paul, or any of his intelUgent disciples, but with ignorant perverters of his
doctrine, and probably in many cases, with figments of their own imagination,
mere '
men of straw.' The idea of the law's coming to an end, is frightful
to them only because they disjoin it from that which Paul constantly connects
with it, viz., consequent righteousness. Their experience has never given
them a clear and strong concepTion of the power of grace, and they naturally
imagine that the end of the law is necessarily the end of all godly influence,
and of all righteousness. Perhaps these imaginations are confirmed by the
evil practices of some who make a speculative theory, and not Christ, the end
of the law, so passing from legality to licentiousness. Thus they come to
such a pass of prejudice, that when any one quotes Paul's saying, 'Ye are
not under the law, but under grace,' they hear only the first part of the dec-
laration, '
Ye are not under the laiv^ and forthwith commence an outcry
against antinomianism, licentiousness, &c. They see the law, and have some
confidence in its regulating influence ; but they see not the Spirit of life,
which in the gospel stands at the end of the law. Of course to them the
transition from law to grace, seems like leaping from a rock into a void abyss.
We can assure all w^ho, for such reasons, shudder at the very mention of 'the
end of the law,' that they shudder at their oavh imaginations, and not at any
doctrine which Paul or any of his honest followers hold forth. The transi-
tion which Paul proposes is not from a rock to nothing, but from a visible
' Slough of Despond,' to an invisible rock of strength ; and he truly says of
those who, under the false imagination which I have described, '
desire to be
teachers of the law' for fear that the gospel will lead to antinomian licentious-
ness, that they '
understand not ivhat they say, neither whereof they affi7'm.'
'But we know that the laio is good, if a man use it lawfully.'' Al!
things are good in themselves, but evil to those who abuse them ; and indeed
their goodness is the measure of the evil they produce when perverted. The
law, considered merely as a standard of righteousness, is wholly good. It
is a perfect expression of the character and will of a perfect God : and the
establishment of the righteousness which it requires, is the highest object of
the gospel which supersedes it. But good as the law is in itself, it may be
used unlawfully ; and then like violent medicines, it works mischief in pro-
portion to its power. Hence, mere zeal for the honor of the law^, when un-
accompanied by a correct knowledge of its design and appropriate effects.
214 Paul's views op law.
»
will never ^ magnify the law and make it honorable.' Whoever drags it
from its appointed place, and crowds it upon the field of Christ's conquests,
through ignorance disgraces that which he seeks to honor.
'The law is not made for a righteous man."* Why? Because a right-
eous man has gone over to the party that gives the law, and of course is no
longer under it. The law surely is not made for God, for then God would
be found commanding and threatening himself. Moreover, the very idea
that a law is given^ supposes that the giver has in himself beforehand the
standard of righteousness proposed in his law. If then a righteous man is
one who is 'joined to the Lord^ and with him '
is one spirit,'' he has become
a member of the Idb^y-giving instead of the \im-oheying party, and is par-
taker of a righteousness which was not formed by the law, but was its ante-
cedent and its source.
They greatly err, who say that '
all the virtue on earth or in heaven
consists in obeying the law, and that if the law were abolished there could
be no such thing as moral character of any kind.' (See Oberlin Evangehst.)
This statement should be inverted thus :
'
All moral law in heaven and on
earth, is a transcript of antecedent virtue ; and if there was not previous
moral character, there could be no moral law;' for law is the expression of the
will of a law-giver; and it is self-evident that the will must exist before its expres-
sion. God's righteousness, which existed before a law was made or a subject
of law created, is the original of which all moral law is the copy ; and that
righteousness, independent as it is of the law, is the only righteousness in
heaven or on earth. The gospel reveals no other ; and the law works not
righteousness, but wrath. So that not only the converse but the reverse of
the above statement is true—i. e., There is no virtue on earth or in heaven^
that consists in ,
obeying the law. Whoever would disprove this assertion,
must show either that God's virtue is dependent on the law, (and of course
that the law existed before God became virtuous, and emanated not from
him, but from some higher authority,) or that men have some other righteous-
ness than God's. The error of the Oberlin legalists doubtless arises from the
false or indefinite meaning which they attach to the word, law. When they
say ' the law is the only standard of character,' they refer merely to that
which may be called the indicative element of the law, i. e. the description
which it contains of right and wrong, which standing alone, only addresses
the understanding, and is not properly called law. This kind of law may be
given by an equal to an equal ; or by an inferior to a superior ; or by a man's
understanding to his own heart. But law, properly so called, can be given
only by a superior to an inferior. It is the imperative element—that which
implies superiority and authority on the part of the giver—that which addres-
ses/ear in the subject and puts constraint upon his will, that constitutes the
distinctive nature of law ; and this element has no essential connection
with the standard of right and wrong, which is necessary to the existence of
moral character. God unquestionably is under the indicative portion of the
law ; i. e. his will is subject to his understanding, and his understanding dis-
cerns between good and evil. But who will say that he is under the imper-
ative f He has no superior, and he cannot command himself. Then he is
Paul's views of law. 215
not under law. In his case at least, the indicative is disjoined from the im-
perative ; and yet he has a perfect standard of character, and a perfect right"
eousness. A standard of character then may exist without a law; and it
may so exist in man as well as in God. To illustrate, suppose a father mere-
ly instructs his son in the principle that truth is good and falsehood is evil,
without uttering a command; has that son no standard of morality ? Must
Sound doctrine be backed by orders and penalties, before it becomes a stan-
|
(
dard of character ? Or is there no virtue, as the legalists say, in regarding •
'
good instruction, unaccompanied by threats ? Universal consciousness and
common sense testify the contrary of all this. All virtue lies, not in subject-
ing the will to fear, as must be done under the law, but in subjecting the will
to the understanding. It is self-evident that God's virtue is of this descrip-
tion ; and if man's virtue is from God, or is homogeneous with God's virtue,
it lies in subjecting the will to the indicative and not to the imperative portion
of the law ; in other words, it lies not in obedience to a laiv, but to a doc-
trine. Legalists, in confounding the doctrine contained in the law with the
law itself, and thence deducing the dogma that the law is essential to the ex-
istence of virtue, place themselves among those who, Paul says,' understand ^^
not what they say, nor whereof they affirm.'
Paul evidently makes the distinction which we have made between the in-
dicative and the imperative elements of the law, in the passage which com-
mences our present head. ' The end of the commandment,^ says he, 'is
charity,' &c. ; but this is not the end of sound doctrine ; for he proceeds,
' the law is made for the lawless, &c., and if titere he any other thing that is
contrary to sound doctrine, according to the glorious gospel of the blessed
God.^ The gospel then has the indicative portion of the law, so far as the
law is spiritual. Whatsoever is contrary to the command of the law, is also
contrary to the doctrine of the gospel. The difference between the law and
the gospel, is not in respect to their standards of right and wrong, but in res-
pect to their mode of influence in securing or seeking conformity to those
standards. The law is imperative ; the gospel is persuasive. The law ad-
dresses fear ; the gospel addresses love. The law presents its orders to the
eye in writing ; the gospel carries its persuasions to the heart by spiritual
power. And yet they have a standard of right and wrong in common.
Bearing in mind and duly considering this distinction, we can easily recon-
cile Paul's doctrines with his practice, which otherwise seem inconsistent.
While he labors to prove that the law aggravates instead of healing the moral
diseases of mankind, and repeatedly declares it abohshed by the advent
of the gospel, he nevertheless abounds in precepts and exhortations
in all his epistles. A blind legalist will say '
these precepts and exhortations
are of the nature of law, and prove that Paul held no such doctrine as that
the law is abohshed.' On the other hand, a reckless antinomian will say,
* Paul preached against the law, but after all he was under the law, and laid
law upon others.' One of these is as far from the truth as the other. Paul's
precepts and exhortations were not laws, because they were neither given
nor received in the imperative. (We speak not of their grammatical forai,
but of their nature.) They were enforced not by authority and penalties,
but by persuasions aud spiritual power. They were therefore expressions of
216
the will of God as a father, and not as a law-giver. Thus joming the indic-
ative to the persuasive and spiritual, instead of the imperative and penal,
Paul could consistently and did actually transfer to the gospel the whole spir-
itual code contained in the law. Look at the 12th chapter of Romans. It
is an unbroken series of moral precepts ; and superficial observers may call it
law. But any one who has pondered the grand argument of that same epis-
tle concerning the deadly influence of the law and its abolishment by the gos-
pel,will hesitate before he adopts an opinion that imputes to Paul the most
outrageous inconsistency. As laws commonly suggest the nature of their
authority in some such form as this, 'Be it further enacted^ &c., at the be-
ginning of each section, we naturally turn to the beginning of the chapter
imder consideration to ascertain the nature of the legislation which it contains.
And there we find a formula that relieves our perplexity and saves Paul's
consistency. ' I BESEECH you therefore^ brethren^ BY the mercies op
God, that ye present your bodies a living sacrifice ^^
&c. Here is a form of
enactment that leaves full room for Paul's antinomianism, and limits not the
liberty of the gospel. Under this form Paul re-enacted the indicative portion
of the law, as fast as he abolished the imperative. See Rom. 13: 8, 1 Cor.
9: 8, 21, 14: 34, Gal. 6: 2, especially Heb. 8: 10, where the New Cove-
naut is represented as adopting the '
laws' of the Old Covenant, but not its
mode of enforcement ; in other words, as connecting the indicative part of
the law with spiritual power, instead of command and penalty.
IV. 1 CoE. 9: 20, 21. " Unto the Jews I became as a Jew, that I might
gain the Jews ; to them that are under the law, as under the law, [not be-
ing myself under the law,] that I might gain them that are under the law
to them that are without law as without law, (being not without law to God
but under the law [or in law] to Christ,) that I might gain them that are
without law."
In order to a right understanding of this passage, it is important to notice
the two criticisms on the common version, which we have suggested in brack-
ets. 1. According to the best editions of the Greek Testament, (such as
Knapp's,) there is a parenthesis in the first verse, (of which the clause in
brackets is a translation,) qualifying Paul's statement about being ' under
the law,' corresponding . to the qualifying parenthesis in the last verse.
Paul evidently thought it as necessary to repel the idea of legality as of an-
tinomianism, though our translators seem to have thought otherwise, in leav-
ing out the first parenthesis. 2. The last clause of the parenthesis in the
last verse, is so translated in the common version as to give the impression
that the original of the expression, '
under the laiv^ is the same there as in
the first verse. Whereas, in the first verse there are three y^^y^upo ton
Tiomony literally translated '
under the law ;' while in the last v<|rs^. there is
but one one word, ' ennomos,^ compounded of ew, signifying m, and:"*^io^2os,
signifying law ; hterally translated Hnlaw.^ It is obvious that there is a
difference between being under law and being in law, as there is also be-
tween being ' under the 'law to Christ,' and being '
in law [i. e. subject] to
Christ.' The unauthorised introduction of the definite article, makes Paul
declare himself under the same law that he had professed himself free from;
217
whereas he simply declares himself loyal to Christ, or under the regulating
influence of Christ. The parenthesis may be freely paraphrased thus:
Though I am not under the law written on tables of stone, or with ink, as
the regulating influence of my life, yet I am not without a regulating influ-
ence f.om God. His Spirit takes the place of the law ; and being in Christ,
I am in a spiritual law of righteousness, though I am not under the written
law.' Regulation of life is to be distinguished from the means by which it
is produced. God may govern by laiv^ or he may govern by his Sjnrit.
The apostle simply means to refer the regulation of his life to the immediate
influence of God in Christ, that no one may suppose him to be, in an evil
sense, lawless, because he says he is ' without law.'
There is a generic sense in which all regulating influence is properly called
law. In this sense we may speak of the ' law of matter ;'
not meaning by
that expression, that matter is governed by imperative verbal enactments,
but that it is governed by a regulating power which produces the same or-
derly effects as law produces in the moral world. In a similar sense we may
call the spiritual influence by which the sons of God are governed, a law ; not
because it is verbal, imperative, or penal ; but because it produces those or-
derly effects which are required by the written law of God. Indeed Paul
frequently uses language in this way. Romans 8: 2, 3, is a good example.
* The LAW of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus, hath made me free from the
law of sin and death. For what the law could not do, in that it was w^eak
through the flesh, God sending his own Son, in the likeness of sinful flesh,
condemned sin in the flesh, that the righteousness of the law might be fulfiU-
*ed in us,'&c. Here are three distinct laws : 1, the law of the Spirit of life;
2, the law of sin and death ; 3, the written law. Now no man will say that
the second law is a verbal enactment. ' The law of sin and death' is not a
command operating 2fpon men, but a spiritual principle working in them—
' law in their members.' See Rom. 7: 23. But the law of ' the Spirit of life'
is the exact counterpart of this principle. One is the antagonist of the other.
The first law then, like the second, is a spiritual power, working in men's
members,' and as such only is competent to produce that righteousness
which the verbal law can only require. Paul was '
in the law of the Spirit
of life in Christ Jesus,' but not under either the law of commandments or
the law of sin and death.
27
ay
^28, ANTI-LEGALITY NOT ANTINOMIANISM..
When we say '
we are not under law,' we do not mean that we are not
tinder government. God does not cease to reiepi over man by the change
from Judaism to Christianity. He is '
king of saints' in heaven. ' His throne
is forever and ever.' But government may be administered in various ways*
Law is not the only means by which a king may seek and secure obedience
to his will. Even earthly governments, in many cases, rely on education
more than on law. Our position is, that in the Christian dispensation, God
reigns not by law, but by other and far more effectual influences, viz., by
grace and truth.
Neither do we mean, in saying that '
we arc not under law,' that we are
released from fulfilling the righteousness of the law. Perfect love to God
and man is the only standard of holiness, under the Christian, as well as the
Jewish dispensation—the great end for which God administers his everlasting
government. But law is not the only influence that can be used to secure
that end. A king may certainly induce his subjects to love himself and each
other, by personal persuasion, by the influence of the press, by general edu-
cation, as well as by the exhibition of authority and penalty. The question at
issue between us and the legalists, relates not to the standard of holiness, the
ultimate object of God's government-—but to the measures which God chooses
to employ to effect that object. It is not a moral but a prudential question.
We may suppose God to have presented it to his own mind thus : It is right
that men should love ; they can never be admitted to my presence till they
do : now shall I drive them into love by a threatening law^, or shall I draw
them into it by exhibiting to them my own love, giving them grace and truth V
We believe the latter poHcy characterizes the Christian, as the former did
the Jewish dispensation. We look upon God in Christ, not as a law-giver,
but as a Father, governing his children, not by formal statutes, but by the
power of his spirit, his word, and his example. This is what we mean when
we say '
we are not under law.'
* The law was given by Moses, but grace and truth came by Jesus Christ,'
Pid grace and truth come only to help the law, or to take its place ? Was
Jesus Christ sent only as an auxiliary to Moses, 'or as his substitute ? We
answer in the words of Paul—' Christ is the end of the ImvJ When God
commenced his government by grace and truth, he abolished the statutes of
Moses. '
But did he abolish the onoral law ?' Yes. Paul expressly speaks
of the law '
written on tables of stone,' as '
done away.' 2 Cor. 3: 11. We
find no sufficient authority in scripture for the separation which is commonly
made between the moral and ceremonial law. The decalogue certainly con-
tains one command which in its nature is ceremonial, viz. that relating to the
Sabbath ; and the whole code of Moses is an intermixture of natural with ar-
tificial laws. Paul never attempted to sunder them as modern theologians
have done, but called them all '
the law,' and declared them abolished in
Christ. And indeed the very nature of the new government, instituted at
ANTI-LEQALITY NOT ANTINOMIANISM. 219
tne coming of Christ, as we have before defined it, required the abolishment
of all previous law.
But while we say this, it must be borne in mind, that the abolishment of the
'
Mosaic code is not an abolishment of the nature of God and man, in which the
necessity of the righteousness required by that code is grounded. It is not the
abolishment of the will of God that men should love himself and each other, but
only of a particular legal form of expressing and enforcing that will. To illus-
trate : Suppose the Legislature of Vermont to be annihilated by a sudden rev-
olution, and its whole code of laws to be thus abolished. Would that be an abol-
ishment of all the moral truth contained in that code? Would it leave the people
of Vermont at liberty to steal and murder with impunity, and with a good
conscience? The nature of things remaining the same, the nature and necessity
of virtuous conduct would remain the same, though the authority of the local
^
legislature, and the specific penalties of their code, should be removed. So
the abolishment of the whole Mosaic institute, (which, as compared with the
eternal foundations of moral truth, is but a local legislature,) affects not the
value and necessity of love to God and man ; while it enables God to ap-
proach men as a father, instead of a law-giver, and thus by grace and truth,
to put the righteousness of the law in their hearts.
But Christ says, ' Think not that I am come to destroy the law or the
prophets : I am not come to destroy but to fulfill : for verily I say unto you,
till heaven and earth pass, one jot or one tittle shall in no wise pass from
the law, till all be fulfilled.' How is this consistent with the truth that
* Christ is the end of the law ?' The difficulty in the case bears as heavily
on the common doctrine, that '
the ceremonial law only was abolished by the
coming of Christ,' as on the doctrine we have presented ; for if Christ abol-
ished the ceremonial law, he destroyed in some sense a ' tittle ' at least of
the law. If it is answered, that Christ established and fulfilled the spirit,
though he abolished the letter of the ceremonial law, the self-same answer is
good in respect to the moral law; he established and fulfilled its spirit,
though he abolished its letter. We may take a view of the whole matter by
an illustration. Suppose a family, in the absence of its head is subjected to
an imperative code of ivritten regulations, some of them founded in the im-
mutable nature of things, and some of them merely temporary and circum-
stantial. The father at length returns to his place in the household. At the
outset of his personal administration, he addresses the family thus :
'
Think
not that I am come to set aside the principles which have hitherto directed
your conduct ; my object is to carry them into full execution ; and I shall
do this, not by means of the formal statutes which have heretofore been your
rules, but by my own personal influence and example. I now abolish the
written code—the whole of it,—and call upon you to look to me for direc-
tion.' In such a case, it might be said, in one sense, that the law of the
household was established, and in another, that it was abolished. But it
would certainly be foolishness to divide the written code, and say a part of
it was established and a part of it abohshed. It is true that in the ncAV per-
sonal government, the distinction between that which was necessary and that
which was only circumstantial in the old code might appear. Essential moral
220 ANTI-LEGALITY NOT AXTINOMIANISM.
principle might be insisted upon in the exhortations, persuasions, and eX'
ample of the father, while mere formal regulations might be neglected.—
Even so Christ and his apostles transferred the vital elements of the Mosaic
law to the discipline of the gospel, while they left the ceremonial part un-
der the sentence of abrogation.
' Wherefore then serveth the law V In answer to this question, we will
notice, first, the purpose which the law served while it was in force as God's
instrument of government ; and secondly, its use in the present dispensation
as a witness of truth. 1. '
Before faith came, we were kept under the law,
shut up unto the faith that should afterward be revealed.' The law was an
enclosure, which, while it by no means purified its subjects, yet kept them
within the reach of God's influences, till the purifying power of the gospel
could be brought in. A shepherd proposing to wash his flock, first shuts them
up in a fold, to bring them within his reach. The use of the fold is not to
wash the sheep, but to keep them within necessary bounds, till the shepherd
can take them and wash them himself. 2. Though the righteousness of God
revealed in the gospel is '
without the law,' yet it is '
witnessed by the law
and the prophets.' Rom. 3: 21. The Mosaic code, though abohshed as an
instrument of government, yet stands on record as a glorious developement
of truth. While we cannot give it the place of Christ, as our sanctifier and
judge, we may still interrogate it as a witness : for though we are not under
law, we are under gi^ace and t7'uth ; and the truth contained in the record of
the law, is a part, and a very important part, of the instrumentality of the
gospel. Indeed the information conveyed by the law, concerning the holi-
ness of God, the standard of character necessary to man's acceptance with
him, and the wrath which awaits ungodluiess, is the very platform on which
the gospel is erected.
Having disposed of the law, we come now to inquire more particularly,,
Wliat are G-od^s instruments of goveryimenfit in the kingdom of Christ f
And first of all, we name the poiver of the cross of Christ. In that, God
set man a perfect example of love. That example hfted up like the serpent
in the wilderness, in the sight of sinners, is a moral engine far mightier than
the laAV.
Next in importance, is the Holy Ghost. By this power the cross is spir-
itually revealed to believers, and its virtue infused into their hearts, so that
they receive it not as a mere outward example, but as an assimilating energy,
by which they are crucified with Christ to the world, become dead to sin,
and fully subject, as Christ was, to the perfect will of God. While the Ho-
ly Ghost thus plants the root of all righteousness in the heart, it also leads
the understanding into all truth, sanctifies the susceptibihties and directs the
outward conduct.
A third influence by which God governs men in his kingdom of grace, is
Ms outward word. One vehicle of that word is the scriptures. But the
principal external agency employed in the primitive church was that of apos-
tles, prophets and teachers. The chief office-work of these also was to bear
witness of the cross of Christ. They were auxiharies of the Holy Ghost, in
setting forth before the eyes of men and applying to their hearts, the great
example of God's perfect love.
ANTI-LEGALITY NOT ANTINOMIANISM. 221
But it is evident that they were not mere witnessess.. The whole record
of the New Testament exhibits them as commissioned to reprove, correct,
exhort, and watch over the clmrch. There is reason to beheve that this ele-
ment of the government of the gospel has been extensively confounded with
the law. Many have seemed to suppose that the doctrine that 'we are not
under law,' necessarily implies that we are not subjects of exhortation and
correction. The falsehood of this notion might be assumed, from the simple
fact, that Paul, from whom in fact we get all our anti-legal views, was '
instant
in season and out of season, reproving, rebuking, exliorting, with all long-suf-
fering.' It is not to be supposed that he misunderstood and practically con-
tradicted his own doctrine ; that on the one hand he taught believers that
they were not under law, and on the other imposed law upon them. He
evidently saw a clear distinction between the government of a father, and
that of a law-giver. Exhortations and even commands, addressed by spiritual
men to spiritual men, were certainly not regarded as savoring of legahty in
the primitive church. And in truth, a little reflection will discover that the
exhortations of Paul differed from law in many particulars. In the first place,
they were not like law, dead-letter rules, but like the words of Christ, they
were spirit and life. Moreover, they did not depend on a penalty for their
execution, but carried with them the power of their own fulfilment. As they
were living words, they found a living echo in the hearts of those to whom
they were addressed ; and obedience was not a matter of conscientious con-
straint, but of spiritual impulse. Love, instead of fear, presided over the
transaction. So in their effects, Paul's spiritual commands proved themselves
to be widely different from laws. We know that ' the law worketh wrath ;'
but Paul's letter of reproof to the Corinthian church, in respect to the case
of fornication, wrought a thorough reformation. See 2 Cor. T: 8—11.
We admit that this branch of the gospel government, is in its nature tem-
porary, adapted only to the incipient stages of the spiritual dispensation. It
is manifest that the kingdom of God as administered in heaven, has no occa-
sion for the employment of exhortation and reproof ; and in the progress of
the church on earth, when '
we shall all come into the unity of the faith,
and of the knowledge of the Son of God, mito a perfect man, unto the measure
of the stature of the fulness of Christ,' (a state which we believe is attainable
and will be attained in this world,) this semi-legal part at least, of the office of
apostles, prophets and teachers, will come to an end. But few will venture to
affirm that that time has already come to us. Experience has shown that the
same necessity of discipline, exhortation and reproof, exists now, as existed in
the primitive chvirch ; and we may reasonably expect that God, as a wise fa-
ther, looking at the necessities, not of individuals, but of his whole household,
will in due time provide the necessary agencies of temporary external dis-
cipline.
In order to complete our view of the means of government in the kingdom
of Christ, a fourth element of discipline should be noticed, viz., God's provi-
dential aj^pUcation of suffering. It is evident that '
fiery trials,' both of a
temporal and spiritual nature, were among the chief agencies of the educa-
tion of the primitive saints; insomuch that Paul said, ' If ye endure chasten-
222 TWO KINDS OF ANTINOMIANISM.
ing, God dealeth mth you as with sons : for what son is he whom the father
chasteneth not ? But if ye be without chastisement, whereof all are partakers,
then are ye bastards and not sons.' This kind of discipline, however, like
the preceding, belongs to the government of the transition period, not to the
final kingdom of God. The two may be regarded as of kindred nature, and
of course appropriate during the same period ; that is, so long as the church
as a body endures providential chastening from the Lord, it may safely be
regarded as needing verbal exhortation and reproof.
Thus we see that the abohshment of the Mosaic code is not the abolishment
of all regulating influence. Though God reigns not by Iojw in the kingdom
of his Son, he has not therefore surrendered his supremacy, and abandoned
his purpose of subjecting all things to his will. We are sure that the blood
of the cross, the power of the Holy Ghost, the testimony and reproofs of the
gospel, and the chastenings of God's providence, are elements of government
incomparably^ more vigorous and effectual than any possible application of legal
influence. We feel safe under the sceptre of grace and truth.
§29. TWO KINDS OF ANTINOMIANISM.
The word antinomian is compounded of two Greek words, viz., anti^ mean-
ing against^ and nomos, meaning law. An antinomian is an anti-laio man.
Now the law of God may be viewed in two aspects, viz : —first, as his will
embodied in words ; and secondly, as his will embodied in a spirit. The
'law of the spirit of life in Christ Jesus' is the law of God, as truly as is the
law of Moses. When God says, in the new covenant,—' I will put my laws
in their hearts and write them in their minds'—he does not mean that he will
put a verbal code of laws in men's hearts and minds, but that he will put a
spirit within them which will secure the righteousness defined in his verbal
code. We may say, then, there is a letter-law and there is a spirit-law.
The letter-law was the glory of Judaism, but the spirit-law is the glory of the
gospel. Both are expressions of the character and will of God ; but the lat-
ter is as much more effectual and valuable than the former, as spiritual pow-
er is stronger than words. There are therefore two kinds of antinomianism.
A man who discards or lightly esteems the law '
written and engraven on
stones,' is an antinomian in one sense ;—he is a^ams^ the letter-law. And
the man who discards or lightly esteems the '
law of the spirit of fife' written
on the heart, is an antinomian in another sense ;—he is against the spirit-law.
Which of these kinds of antinomianism is the worst .?
A man who reverences the will of God as embodied in his Spirit, mny
turn away from the letter-law, without any sacrifice of loyalty. Nay, if he
sees that the letter-law only causes the offense to abound, and that his actual
fulfilment of the will of God depends on his turning to the spirit-law, loyalty
THE SECOND BIRTH. 22E
requires him to renounce the former for the sake of the latter. Paul was an
antinomian in this sense. In his view, the law ' written and engraven on
stones' had no glory in comparison with the law of the spirit of life.
But what shall we say of those who are jealous for the permanent author-
ity of the letter-law, and are ever ready to cry down Paul's kind of antino-
mianism, while they lightly esteem and practically reject the '
law of the spirit
of life'? There are many antinomians of this sort—men who are exceed-
ingly indignant at any supposed attempt to 'lower the standard of the
law,' while they disclaim all pretence of actual conformity to its de-
mands,—law-extollers, and at the same time avowed law-breakers.
These may be called friends of the law of God in the abstract, and en-
emies m the concrete. The law '
written and engraven on stones'
is their idol ; but the law written on the heart by the Spirit of the liv-
ing God, i. e. actual holiness, (which is Perfectionism,) is their abomination.
They are vigilant guardians of the abstract standard of holiness, (which is
in fact no standard to them, since they do not profess or expect to live by
it,) but incontinently lax in relation to the practical standard of Christ's ho-
liness embodied in the Holy Ghost, and professed by the primitive saints.
They are ready to rise in arms against any profane meddling with the stat-
utes of the decalogue ; but scruple not at all to lay violent hands on such
gospel manifestos as these—' He that is born of God doth not commit sin ;'
' He that sinneth hath not seen him, neither known him.' The standard of
God's requirements they extol and magnify; but the standard of gospel expe-
rience answering to those requirements, they level down to their own carnal-
ity, and that of their favorite sinful saints. It is as if a merchant should be
rehgiously solicitious that his yard-stick should be of the full length, but free
and easy as to cheating his customers of a hand-breadth in the actual meas-
urement of every yard of cloth. We call this the worst kind of antino-
mianism.
§ 30. THE SECOND BIRTH.
The object of this article is to show by an examination of Scripture, that
none except Christ wei^e horn of Qody previous to the day of Pentecost.
In the first place, let the reader take his concordance and look at the ref-
erences under all the principal phrases which designate the second birth
such as, '•horn of Grod^ 'horn againj '•children of God^ '-sons of God^ &c.
He will find that this sort of language is confined almost exclusively to the
New Testament. 8ons of God are spoken of in a few instances in the Old
Testament, as in Gen. 6: 2, Job 1: 6, 2: 1, 38: 7 ; but it is evident that
in these instances the expression refers to angels. In Psalm 82: 6, magis-
trates are spoken of as '
children of the Most High ;' but simply with refer-
ence to their ofiice, not to their character, as appears by the preceding con-
text. God calls himself the lather of Israel, (Mai. 1: 6,) but only in a
224 THE SECOND BIRTH. ^^^. ff) ->,p^. ^..-^^M'^'-
"^
sense similar to that in which he is the Father of all his creatures, viz., as a
benefactor. He speaks of the Jews as his children^ (Ezek. 16: 21,) not as
intimating that they were horn again, but that they owed their being and
blessings to him. There are also, in the Psalms and prophets, predictions
relating to the second birth—such as those concerning ' the new heart,' ' the
resurrection,' Hhe new heavens and the new earth,' &c. From these a wise
man, even under the Jewish economy, might have learned that men would
be '
born again' at some future time, i. e. when the promised reign of heaven
should begin ; so that Jesus justly reproved the ignorance of Nicodemus.
r>v^ John 3: 10. But there is no evidence that the second birth, in the peculiar
^ sense which that expression has under the economy of the new covenant,
^^^ was ever professed, preached, or alluded to, otherwise than by prediction, till
^ Christ came into the world.
>s, The great idea of a conjunction of the divine with human nature—which
is the true idea of the second birth—evidently took its rise, so far as its de-
velopment in the Bible is concerned, from the peculiar conception of Jesus
Christ. The angel said to Mary—' The Holy Ghost shall come upon thee,
^ and the power of the Highest shall overshadow thee ; therefore that holy thing
which shall he horn of thee, shall he called the Son of God.' Luke 1: 36.
Here for the first time a human being took the name of a Son of God.
Jesus, not merely as the Everlasting Word, but as a man, was the '
first-
born among many brethren.' And it is evident that he was called the Son
of God in a higher than figurative sense, and for a stronger reason than be-
cause he was a righteous man. The fatJier-part of his coynpound natu7'e was
literally the life of Grod; andfor this reason he was called tho Son of God.
'^ In this we have the original Bible idea of the sonship—a definition of the
divine birth ; and we must apply this definition to Christ's brethren as well
M' as to himself. We say then, that none were born of God, till the life of
God took the place of ihQ father-part of the natural life ; and there is no
reason to believe that this took place until after the day of Pentecost, when
the ' Holy Ghost came upon the church, and the power of the Highest over-
shadowed it.' Without denying that men had received a measure of the Holy
Ghost, and were servants of God, in previous ages, we still affirm that Jesus
Christ was the first who had the divine nature ; and that he did not enter
upon his office as the second Adam, and commence the work of communica-
ting his divine nature, until he had ascended up on high, and sent forth the
Holy Ghost.
This general view of the subject will be confirmed, if we consider that the
^ Christian church is the hody of Christ, (Eph. 1: 23,) and that this body is
K. formed by the baptism of the Holy Ghost. 1 Cor. 12: 13. Christ is called
the '
only begotten^ Son of God. John 1: 18. If then God has but one
Son, all others are sons only by being members of him. But the formation
of his spiritual body did not begin till he arose from the dead, and bestowed
on believers the baptism of the Holy Ghost. Therefore behevers did not be-
fc. gin to be members of him, i. e. sons of God, till after the day of Pentecost.
I, We will now proceed to examine the more direct testimony which we have
in Scripture, on the point in question, under several propositions.
^ i, -
THE SECOND BIRTH. 225
I. The second birth is described as the effect of the faith that came into
the world by Jesus Christ. 'As many as received him, to them gave he
power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name,*
John 1: 12. If it is said that the saints '
received' Christ and '
behoved on
his name' before he came into the world, and so received power to become
the sons of God : in reply we cite a parallel passage, which clearly deter-
mines when the faith that is the fomidation of the sonship came :—Gal. 3:
23, &c. 'Beforefaith came [i. e. during the ages before the coming of Christ,
see the previous context] we were kept under the law, shut up [or kept in
ward] unto the faith which shoidd aftenvards be revealed. Wherefore the
law was our schoolmaster to bring us unto Christ, that we might be justified
by faith. But after that faith is come, we are no longer under a schoolmas-
ter : for ye are all the children of Grod by faith in Christ Jesus. ^ It is here
plainly implied that while they were under the law, they w^ere not the chiil-
dren of God ; and it is expKcitly stated that they became children of God by
faith which was not in the world before the coming of Christ.
II. The second birth is described as the effect of faith in the resurrec-
tion OF Christ. '
Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ,
which according to his abundant mercy hath begotten us again unto a \_liv'
ing^ hope by the resurrectio7i of Jesus Christ from the dead. 1 Peter 1: 3.
The sons of God are begotten by the word of the gospel. 1 Peter 1: 23—25.
What is the gospel ? Paul answers the death, and especially the resurrec-
tion of Christ. 1 Cor. 15: 1, &c. 'Reinember,^ says he to Timothy, Hhat
Jesus Christ was raisedfrom the dead according to my gospel.'' 2 Tim. 2: 8.
* If thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and shalt beheve in
thine heart that G-od hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved.'
Rom. 10: 9. The reader may discover the reason for the efficiency of faith
in the resurrection of Christ, in causing the new birth, by reflecting on the
following texts. (1.) '
Whatsoever is bom of God overcometh the world.'
1 John 5: 4. (2.) '
Who is he that overcometh the world, but he that
beheveth that Jesus is the Son of God V 1 John 5: 5. (3.) '
Christ was
declared to be the Son of God with power, by the resurrection from the
dead.'' Rom. 1: 4. Christ's resurrection was the proof of his sonship, and
faith in that proof was the power of the second birth. The second birth,
then, did not commence till after Christ's resurrection.*
* It should be observed that in respect to his natural body, Jesus Christ himself was
not born of God, till after his resurrection. The vwther-part of his nature previous to
that change was the fallen nature of Adam. Thefather-part only was divine. Hence
Paul applies Ps. 2: 7,
—'Thou art my Son, this day have I begotten thee,' to Christ's reS'
urrection ; so that in an important sense Christ himself was '
born again.' when he rose
from the dead. In this sense, none of the saints of the primitive church, were born oi
God until the second Coming". We have a complete definition of the sonship, as pertain-
ing- to the whole man, in Luke 20: 35, 36. —' They which shall be accounted worthy to
obtain that world, and the resurrection from the dead, neither marry, nor are given in
marriage : neither can they die any more : for they are equal unto the angels ; and are
the children of God, being the children of the resurrection.' This was ihe '
adoption'
for which Paul was waiting. Rom. 8; 23. See also Phil. 3: 11. The second birth, in its
most extensive sense is nothing more nor less than the resurrection of soul and body.
When this is attained, the child is ushered into the world where his father and mother
dwell. See Gal. 4: 26.
28
> / .13 ^
226 THE SECOND BIRTH.
III. The second Urih is described as the effect of that power of the Molt/
Ghost, which ivas given after Chrises death and resurrection. John says, (7:
89,) 'The Holy Ghost was not yet given, because that Jesus ivas not yet glori-
fied.'' But the Holy Ghost in some form of power had been given in all ages
before. What then was the power of the Holy Ghost which was not given
till Jesus was glorified? We answer, Hhe power of his resurrection^ was not
given, and could not be given till he had died and risen again. And it is
the 'power of Christ's resurrection' that fulfills in behevers that word,
'
Out of his belly shall flow rivers of hving water'—that ' works in them that
believe,' and '
quickens them with him,' (see Eph. 1: 19,)—that ' saves
from sin.' See Rom. 6: 1, &c. This power—the quickening and uniting el-
ement of Christ's spiritual body, the church— was given on the day of Pen-
tecost, and was called the baptism of the Holy Ghost. Then Christ's
body began to be formed, and then his members began to receive the son-
ship in him. Accordingly, when Paul says, as before quoted, '
Ye are all
tJie children of God by faith in Christ Jesus,^ he adds this reason :
' for
as many of you as have been baptized into Christ, have put on Christ;^ (Gal.
3: 27 ;) i. e., ' Ye are the children of God by putting on Christ, who is the
only begotten, and ye put on Christ by being baptized into his body by the
Holy Ghost.' See 1 Cor. 12: 13. Hence, the Spirit which vfas given to
the primitive church is called '
the Spirit of adoption,^ (uiothesias—sonship.)
Rom. 8: 15. It is spoken of in Gal. 4: 6, as being given after Christ '
was
made under the law,' and is clearly distinguished from any power of the
Spirit which was given under the Jewish dispensation. '
When the fullness
of the time was come,'' God sent forth his Son first, and then the S^p)irit of
his Son into believers' hearts. '
The Comforter,' '
the baptism of the Holy
Ghost,' and '
the Spirit of sonship' are only difierent names of the same pe-
culiar bestowment of the Spirit which followed the death and resun-ection of
Christ. See especially 1 Peter. 1: 10—12.
IV. The second birth is described as a state of complete salvation from
mi, which state no man ever attained before the day of Pentecost. '
Who-
soever is born of God doth not commit sin ; for his seed remaincth in him
and he cannot sin, because he is born of God. In this the children of God
are manifest, and the children of the devil.' 1 John 3: 9, 10. '
Whatsoever
is bom of God overcometh the world.' 5: 4. '
We know that whosoever is
born of God sinneth Jiot ; but he that is begotten of God keepeth himself,
and that wicked one toucheth him not.' 5: 18. These texts are commonly
regarded as exaggerated and unguarded statements Avhich need to be quali-
fied. The argument against them is this ;—' The saints of the Jewish dis-
pensation, the disciples of Christ while he was personally with them, many
behevers in the primitive church after the day of Pentecost, and all Chris-
tians in later ages, certainly were not free from sin ; therefore it is not liter-
ally true that he that is born of God doth not commit sin.' It will be seen
that this argument takes for granted what is no where stated in Scripture,
and what our whole previous discussion contradicts, viz., that men were born
of God before the day of Pentecost. It also takes for granted, that no higher
attaiiiments were set before the primitive church than had been made in pre-
THE SECOND BIRTH. 22T
Whereas we know that the primitive church lived in Hhe fulness
of time,' when God sent forth his Son, and the spirit of adoption, and
brought behevers up from the state of servants into that of sons. This ar-
gument moreover proceeds in the Avrong direction ; it makes the characters
of nien the rule of judging the word of God, instead of making the word of
God the rule of judging the characters of men. The true argument is this
* He that is born of God doth not commit sin'; therefore all the saints of the
Jewish dispensation, and all in later ages, except a part of the primitive
church, were not born of God.' Let the judgment cut where it will, the
'seed of God ' must not be disgraced. He that4l born of God, has the life
of God in the place oi' the father-jpart of his natural life, and Jesus Christ is
his own brother. He has in the essence of his life, the same security from sin
that Christ has. The blood royal of heaven is in his veins ; and that blood
never was and never will be disgraced by sin.
The great objection to these views is, that they seem to make void nearly
all that has been called religion in the Avorld from the beginning, '
Except a
man be born again, he cminot see the Idngdom of G-od f 'therefore,' says
the objector, '
according to your theory, Abraham and David, with all the
worthies of ancient and modern ages, could not enter heaven.' This objection
will be much diminished by a consideration of the natural meaning of the
word hirtJi. It seems to be generally imagined, that the second birth is the
hegmning of the process of spiritual gestation. Whereas, the natural birth
is the e7id of the process of natural gestation ; and there is no reason why the
spiritual should not follow the order of the natural. The proper idea of the
second birth is, that it is the end of the primary process of spiritual growth ;
the concluding attainment of those who seek after God. With this idea, we
may admit that the Jewish saints, and others of like experience, though they
had not received the spirit of adoption, and therefore were not born of God,
yet were embryo candidates for the second birth. Indeed many of them
were more than candidates ; they were ^heirs ;' (see Gal. 4: 1 ;) i. e. they
had the sure promise of the future sonship ; they were already sons in the
mind of God, though they '
diifered nothing from servants' in their own ex-
perience. At the conclusion of the Jewish dispensation, ' when the fulness
of the time was come,' God sent forth his Son and Spirit ; and all the spirits
ual embryos of preceding ages, as well as those in this world, received the
sonship. This view alone accords with the fact that Christ was the '
first-
born.' See Heb. 11: 39, 40 ; 1 Peter 1: 12, &c.
Regeneration was the harvest of the Jewish dispensation ; and it is the
harvest of individual religious experience. ' To as many as received him
gave he power to become the sons of God.' The receiving him was the sow-
ing of the seed ; and the becoming sons of God was a subsequent harvest.
Even in the primitive church little appears to have been said distinctly of the
second birth until near the period of the Second Coming. John, writing in
'the last hour,' (see 1 Epis. 2: 18,) speaks more plainly and fully of the
character and state of the sons of God than any other writer in the New
Testament.
It is plainly discoverable in the writings of Paul that there were in the
228 THE SECOND BIRTH.
primitive church two classes of bchevers. One of them (which may.be called
the highest class) he distinguishes as '
spiritual ;' (see 1 Cor. 2: 15 ; Gal.
6: 1;) as 'perfect;' see 1 Cor. 2: 6. Phil. 3: 15. &c. The other he calls
'carnal,' and 'babes.' See 1 Cor. 3:1, Heb. 5: 13. This lowest class
coincides with the embryo class of the Jewish dispensation. See Gal. 4: 1.
&c. The highest class only are properly called the sons of God. There is
reason to believe that this class was not developed until a considerable
period after the day of Pentecost : Paul appears to have first apprehended and
preached the 'power of Christ's resurrection.' The two classes were blended
more or less. But in thei^Tie when John wrote his epistle, they had become
clearly distinct. AVhen '
the darkness was past, and the true Hght shone,'
the sons of God were manifested.
The views that have been presented lead to the conclusion that the primitive
church differed essentially from any church that has existed either before or
since. The mark of its distinction may be stated thus It had Perfection
at its core. While Jesus Christ was on earth, the church that gathered around
him, certainly had a perfect centre, however imperfect it might have been in
its external parts. So the church that was subsequently formed under the
administration of Peter and Paul, as it is described in John's epistle, certainly
had for its nucleus a class of men who were free from sin—' sons of God with-
out rebuke.' This perfect nucleus was the ruling power of the whole church,
the moral engine at the centre, which was constantly drawing into itself and
conforming to its own nature, the ' ra^v material' of imperfect spirituality that
gathered around it. The previous Jewish church had for its nucleus only a
class of imperfect spiritualists ; and its '
raw material' was a class of formal-
ists who had no spiritual hfe whatever. When Christ came, Hhe hght of the
moon became as the light of the sun, and the light of the sun sevenfold, as
the light of seven days ;'
in other words, the lowest class in the church be-
came what the highest w^as before, and the highest class became sons of God.
See Zech. 12: 8. The peculiar constitution of the church continued only
long enough to become a model. At the Second Coming the sons of God
were taken away, and the '
imperfect saints' who were left became the Fath-
ers of a second Jewish church among the Gentiles, which continues to this
day. Whenever the harvest of the Gentiles comes, we may look for another
church formed on the primitive model, having sons of God at its core. The
mistake of the churches is, in alloAving only one class of believers, and that
the lowest. A similar mistake has existed among Perfectionists in allowing
also only one class, and that the highest. The church that Avill save the world,
must make room for both classes, giving the predominance to them that have
ceased from sin.
I§ 31. THE TWOFOLD NATURE OF THE SECOND BIRTH.
*
Except a man be born of water and of the spirit he cannot enter into
the kmgdom of God.' John 3: 5.
In the original of this passage, there is nothing connected with the word
translated '
the Spirit,' which should give it a specific meaning, and entitle
it to the definite article. Literally translated, the passage would stand thus:
* Except a man be born of ivater and spirit he cannot enter into the king-
dom of God.' And as the Greek word pneuma primarily means breath, air,
or wind, (being used in this latter sense in the subsequent context of this
very passage, ver. 8,) and is applied to spiritual existences only by meta-
phor, it is evident that Christ's intention was, not to designate directly '
the
Spirit,' but an element naturally belonging to the same category with water,
viz., air ; so that the most literal translation possible would be this :
—' Ex-
cept a man be born of ivater arid air he cannot enter into the kingdom of
God.' It is impossible, we know, that any English translation should pre-
sent the precise aspect of the original in this case, or should make the tran-
sition from the literal, to the figurative meaning of pneuma, and from the
figurative, back to the literal, which occurs several times in John 3: 5—9,
so easy and natural as it is in the Greek ; because we have no single word
that is ordinarily used to signify both air and spirit. Yet we think our
translators have taken an unwarrantable liberty in rendering pneuma, in
some cases wi^id, and in others spirit, in the same passage. They make a
discourse, which in the original is well connected, to the English reader very
incoherent ; especially in the eighth verse. That the whole passage may be
seen in its original form, we will translate it, using the word pneuma itself,
instead of any version of it, w^herever it occurs. ' Except a man be born of
water and pneuma, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God. That which
is born of the flesh is flesh ; and that which is born of \h.Q pneuma i^ pneuma.
Marvel not that I said unto thee. Ye must be bom again. The pneuma
bloweth where it listeth, and thou hearest the sound thereof, but canst not
tell whence it cometh, and whither it goeth : so is every one that is born of
\h& pneuma.'* Since the words water and p)neuma, in the -first part of the
passage, are both of them, in their literal sense, names of material elements,
and it appears from what follows that one of them is used in a symbohcal
way to denote a spiritual element, it is safe to conclude that both of them
are so used : i. e., since pneuma stands not merely for literal air, but as a
symbol of spiritual air, we conclude that ivater stands not merely for literal
water, but as a symbol of spiritual water. Christ's meaning then is '
Ex-
cept a man be born of two elements, which are to the soul as water and air
to the body, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God.' Water is the el-
ement of external purification, and air is the element of internal life. So
that, laying aside the symbols, we may paraphrase the passage thus :
'Ex-
cept a man he horn of an outwardjcleansing, and an inwardj[wickening, he
cannot enter into the kingdom cj^ (xodJ'
230 TWOFOLD NATURE OF THE SECOND BIRTH.
There is another line of argument by which we may reach the same con-
elusion concerning the meaning of John 3: 5. At the close of Christ's
discourse on the second birth, Nicodemus asked him, '
How can these things
be V He answered, ^ Art thou a master [i. e. teacher] in Israel, and
knowest not these things V In this answer he plainly intimated that the
doctrine he had delivered was taught in the Old Testament, and ought to
havfe been knoAvn to a professed teacher of the scriptures. We turn then to
the Old Testament to find the original, of which Christ's teaching was a copy.
In Ezekiel 36: 25—27, it is written, '
Then will I sprinkle clean water upon
you, and ye shall be clean : from all your filthiness, and from all your idols,
will I cleanse you. A new heart also will I give you, and a new spirit will
I put within you ; and I will take away the stony heart out of your fiesh, and
I will give you an heart of flesh. And I will put my Spirit within you,
and cause you to walk in my statutes; and ye shall keep my judgments, and
do them.' Here we discover, first, a prediction of the second birth : for as
the heart is the seat of fife, the taking away of one heart, and giving of an-
other, must be death and birth ; and, secondly, a twofold agency, described
by the very terms that Christ uses in John 3: 5, viz., water and spirit, ' I
will sprinkle clean water upon you ;
[but this is not all ;] a new heart also
ynW I give you, and a new spirit will I put withm you.' That word 'also^
plainly implies that the '
new heart and new spirit' is something over and
above the ' sprinkling of clean water.' A glance at this prediction shows
that it was the source of Christ's doctrine of the second birth, the very pas-
sage from which he derived the terms water and spirit,—and well he might
wonder at Nicodemus' ignorance. But what light does this passage throw
on the meaning of the word water as Christ used it ? What Jcind of water
is here made one of the agents of regeneration ? Our answer is not doubt-
ful : God promises to sprinkle his people with water so clean that it shall
wash away 'alljheir filtJiiness and all their idols.^ This must certainly be
<}leaner water than that of Jordan, or any Baptist pool. Its purifying prop-
erties take efiect on the spiritiial and moral character. In the light of this
passage, we may paraphrase John 3: 5, thus :
—' Except a man be born of
that water which shall cleanse him from all his filthiness, and from all his
idols, and of tha^t Spirit which shall take away his stony heart, and give him
a heart to keep God's judgments and dp them, he cannot enter the kingdom
of God.' Here is the outward gleansing and the inward quickening which
^e found before. * -i
We will notice one or two other passages in the New Testament in which
the same twofold agency appears. John says, (lEpis. 5: 4—6,) '
What-
soever is born of God overcometh the world ; and this is the victory that
overcometh the world, even our faith. Who is he that overcometh the world,
but he that believeth that Jesus is the Son of God ? This is he that came
"by water and blood; not by water only, but by water and blood.' Here
that new birth, which gives victory over the worid, is made the effect of faith
in him whose operation is twofold—by water and blood. Now it is certain
that the blood in this case is spiritual ; for John says in this same epistle that
' the blood of Jesus Christ cleanseth from all sin ;'
and we know that sin is
TWOFOLD NATURE OF THE SECOND BIRTH. 281
purged only by the Spirit of the living God. The blood by which Jesus
Christ 'came^^ was that which he brought from heaven, (see John 6: 51,)
that which he poured through the veins of his spiritual body, the church,
communicating to every member the divuie nature ; thus effecting the second
birth, and giving victory over the world.* If then he came by spiritual blood,
he came also by spiritual water. There would be not only an utter incon-
gruity of idea, but an absolute violation of the plain import of John's
language, in construing it as though he meant to say that Jesus Christ came
by his own blood, but resorted to Jordan for water. This passage is evi-
dently a parallel of John 3: 5, to be explained as that is, by comparison with
Ezekiel's promise. We may explain it thus : —' This is he who came to effect
the second birth, and give victory over the world, by cleansing power and
inward life.'f
Again, Paul says, (Titus 3: 5,) ^According to his mercy he saved us, hi/
the ivashing of regeneration^ and renewing of the Holy Ghost.^ Here is
water and spirit. The phraseology in this case, as clearly as in Jno. 3: 5,
indicates its derivation from Ezekiel 36: 25—27. ' The washing of regen-
eration' corresponds to the '
sprinkling with clean w^ater ;' and *
the renewing
of the Holy Ghost,' is almost identical with the '
giving a new heart and a
netv spirit.'
To the same class w^e must refer Mark 16: 16—' He that helieveth and is
baptized, shall be saved.' Here are two requisites of salvation. And as we
have found in the previous case, that the two requisites of salvation are out-
ward cleansing and inward life, it is to be presumed that this passage teaches
the same doctrine. We need not, however, rely on this presumption. The
passage itself, viewed in connection with the whole discourse in which it oc-
curred, requires no collateral aid to estabhsh its meaning. Comparing Mark
16: 16, with Acts 1: 4—8, and Matt. 28: 19, (all items of Christ's parting
instructions to his disciples.) we find the discourse, put together, amounted
to this :
—John baptized with water, but ye shall be baptized with the JToZy
Grhost not many days hence. Tarry therefore at Jerusalem, until ye receive
this baptism. Then go and teach all nations, baptizing them with the same
baptism ; i. e., not in the name of John, but in the name of the Father, Son,
and Holy Ghost. He that believeth and is thus hai^tized, shall be saved,' &c.
The fact that the disciples did not at first thus understand this discourse, is
no valid objection to our paraphrase. They wholly mismiderstood the direc-
* For a full discussion of the import of the expression, *
the blood of Jesus Christ, see
the article on the New Covenant, p. ISg.
t li is probable that there is an allusion in 1 John 5: 6, to the fact recorded in John 19:
34. While Christ was on the cross^ 'one of the soldiers with a spear pierced his side,
and forthwith came thereout hlcod and water.' This fact was doubtless recorded, and
may be properly viewed, as a visible symbol of that spiritual effusion by which Christ
redeems the church. As such, it furnishes several interesting- sug-gestions: 1. It shows
tl^t the redeeming- influence is twofold. 2. It exposes the error of those who think that
one of those influences is the water of earthly streams. The blood and water of salva-
tion both flow from the same (buntain—tbe heart of Jesus Christ. 3. It sueg-esls the
relation which the true spiritual blood and water of Jesus Christ bear to each other.—
As we have shown above that the first is an inward, and the second an outward ag-eney,
so in the symbol, the blood issued from the verij heart, while the water proceeded fron»
the pericardium which surrounds the heart.
232 TWOFOLD NATURE OF THE SECOND BIRTH.
tion, '
Gfo teach all nations,'' and seem never to have suspected that their
commission extended beyond the Umits of Jewry, till the affair of Cornelius.
See Acts 10. The meaning of Mark 16: 16, then, is this
—' He that believ-
eth the word, and is baptized Avith the Spirit, shall be saved.'
There can be no honest doubt that all these statements of the two ele-
ments of salvation, (viz. John 3: 5, 1 John 5: 6, Titus 3: 5, and Mark 16:
16,) manifestly identical as they are with each other, are all to be referred,
as we have especially referred John 3: 5, to that notable promise of the new
covenant in Ezekiel 36: 25—27, as their original ; and that promise shows
beyond all denial that the water which God employs in regeneration is not
an earthly element, but one that is able to purify men '
from all their filthi-
ness and from all their idols.'
Renouncing, then, faithfully and forever, the foolishness of those who, by
misinterpreting these texts, exalt water baptism into partnership with the
Holy Ghost in the work of salvation, and regarding the two agencies of the
second birth, as both spiritual, both proceeding from Christ, both taking ef-
fect on spiritual and moral character, we proceed to examine more particu-
larly the distmction between those agencies, their separate natures, and
operations.
The ministry of Jesus Christ was of a twofold character, verbal and spir-
ituaL He first instructed his disciples personally, then he ascended to the
Father, and sent upon them the Holy Ghost. This fact, compared with
1 John 5: 6 Hhis is he who came by water andblood,^ (a text which seems
designed to be a comprehensive statement of the nature of the whole ministry
of Christ)—suggests the theory that the first agency of regeneration, desig-
nated by the term water, is the word of God, outward spiritual instruction,
such as Christ ministered while he was on earth in person : and that the
second agency, designated by the term blood, is that Spirit which was dis-
pensed for the first time on the day of Pentecost, whose operation is on the
inward life. Let us see if this theory is supported by the record.
I. We will notice in the first place, some passages which testify directly
in this matter. In the 13th chapter of John we have an account of Christ's
washing his disciples' feet with Hteral water. This was evidently a symbolical
transaction. Accordingly in the conclusion of it, Christ passes from the
shadow to its spiritual substance. On Peter's refusing to be washed, Christ
says to him, ' If I wash thee not, thou hast no part with me.' In this he
evidently refers to a spiritual washing. Having thus made known his mean-
ing, he afterwards says, clearly alluding to the moral state of his disciples
*'Ye are clean, but not all:"* i. e., Judas excepted. In the 15th chapter,
ver. 3, he repeats this declaration, using the same words, and specifies the
agency by which the disciples were cleansed ; 'Now ye are clean through
THE WORD which I have spoken mito you.'' In the first case he sets forth
water as the symbol of that purifying agency, which in the last case he calls
* the word'' of his personal ministry. Paul's language in Eph. 5: 26, is still
more directly to our purpose : —' Christ loved the church, and gave himself
for it, that he might sanctify and cleanse it, with the washing of water by
the word.'' Here is the symbol, and the tiling signified, in immediate con-
junotion.
TWOFOLD NATURE OF THE SECOND BIRTH. 233
II. Our theory will receive indirect confirmation by an examination of the
scriptural meaning of the term '
regeneration.' That word occurs but twice
in the New Testament, and in both cases it stands connected with the primary
element of the second birth. We have already noticed one of those instances,
(Titus 3: 5,) where Paul speaks of the '
washing of regeneration and the
renewing of the Holy Ghost,' and have identified the '
washing of regenera-
tion' with the '
water' of John 3: 5, and 1 John b: Q^ and with the ' sprink-
ling with clean water' of Ezekiel 36: 25. The other instance is Matt. 19:
28. After the young ruler had gone away sorrowful, Christ delivered his
startling doctrine of the danger of those who have riches. ' Then said Peter,
Behold we have left all and followed thee. What shall we have therefore ?
And Jesus said vmto them. Ye tvhich have follotved me in the regeneration^
when the Son of man shall sit in the throne of his glory, ye also shall sit on
twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. And every one that hath
forsaken houses, or brethren, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or chil-
d^ren, of lands, for my name's sake, shall receive an hundredfold, and shall
inherit everlasting life.' It is evident from what goes before, and from what
follows after the clause we have marked by italics, that ' following Christ in
the regeneration,' is equivalent to 'forsaking all for his sake.^ Christ had
forsaken father and mother, and had adopted for his relations, those who did
the will of his Father in heaven. His disciples therefore in doing the same,
'followed^ him ; and they had '
followed him in the regeneration ;' for what
term can be found more fit to describe the abandonment of one parentage
and the adoption of another, than regeneration ? ' The washing of regener-
ation,' then, is that process of purification from earthly attachments, which
the disciples went through, during Christ's personal ministry. It is the neg-
alive part of the second birth, the '
putting off the old man'—not the ' put-
ting on the new man,' for that is the ^renewing of the Holy Ghost ;' and in
the disciples' case '
the Holy Ghost was not yet given.' It is the abandon-
ment of idolatri/ ; and thus described, it beautifully accords with the first
part of Ezekiei's promise—' I will sprinkle clean water upon you, and ye shall
be clean ; 'from all your filthiness, andfrom all your idols, will I cleanse
you.'' Now we ask hy ivhat means did Christ purge his' disciples from their
earthly attachments ? What w^as the '
clean water^ which he sprinkled upon
them ? The answer will be obvious to any one who will look through his
instructions, and observe their main scope. A specimen will serve our pur-
pose. ' Lay not up for yourselves treasures on earth.' ' Take no thqught
saying, what shall we eat and what shall we drink, and wherewithal shall we
be clothed ?' 'He that loveth father or mother more than me, is not worthy
of me.' It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle, than for
a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God.' 'Labor not for the meat which
perisheth, but for that which endureth to everlasting life.' Here is the 'clean
water' which purged the disciples from the idols of this world. It was
Christ's WORD. He says himself, '
Ye are clean through the word which I
have spoken iinto you."* During his personal ministry, he was fulfilling the
first part of the promise' '
sprinkling' his followers with his word, cleansing
them '
from all their filthiness, and from all their idols.'
29
2Zi TWOFOLI> NATURE OP THE SECOND BrRTl!.
III. To set this subject in a still stronger ligbt, we will cite, from the Kew
Testament, several statements of the two agencies of salvation, which are
made in direct terms, without figure or symhol. If our theory is correct,
viz., that the first agency of the second birth, designated by water, is the
word of Christ ; and that the second, designated by spirit or hlood, is the
Holy Ghost, it is obvious that the former, operating on the understanding, is
an intellectual agency, and that the latter, operating on the heart, is a spir-
itual agency. In accordance with this distinction, it will be seen that in
each of the following passages, there is a conjunction of the spiritual, with an
intellectual element. ' The laAv was given by Moses, but grace and truth
came by Jesus Christ.' John 1: 17. *
Christ crucified . . . isihe power o^
God, and the wisdom of God.' 1 Cor. 1: 24. '
God hath chof^-en you to sal-
vation through sanctification\f the Spirit and belief OF the 'truth.'
2 Thess. 2: 13. 'Ye have purified your souls, in obeying' the truth through
the Spirit,'' 1 Pet. 1: 22. '
I will put my laws into their minds, and write
them in i\iQ\v hearts.'' Heb. 8: 10.*
Our conclusion from all this is, that, as Christ's ministry was of two sorts,
verbal and spiritual, so the second birth is effected by two agencies, the word
and the spirit, signified by the symbols, wdter and btood, operating respec-
tively on the mind and the heart, and sanctifying respectively the inward
and the outward man. It should also be noted as an appurtenance of this
conclusion, that in the original order of Christ's ministration, and doubtless
in the order of nature, the word goes before the Spirit, the washing of regen-
eration before the renewing of the Holy Ghost.
Remarks. 1. These views show the true place of the disciples before the
day of Pentecost, and of the Old Testament saints, on the scale of attainment.
The disciples may be said to have been born of water, when Christ declared
them clean through the word : but they were not born of the Spirit, for the
Spirit of adoption had not come. So the Old Testament saints, so far as they
were sprinkled with the spiritual word, and cleansed from idolatry, were in
the primary stage of the second birth, though none were born of God till after
the resurrection of Christ.
2. These views show the falsehood of the common doctrine of instantaneous
regeneration. This doctrine contracts into a moment of time, a work which,
in the case of the disciples, manifestly occupied many years. The first and
least important half of that work, viz., the Avashing of regeneration, required
the whole period of the personal ministry of Christ ; and it may reasonably
be inferred, that the renewing of the Holy Ghost occupied at least as long a
period. We do not deny, but believe, that important instantaneous advan-
ces were made in that work, from time to time, by the formation of new pur-
poses, and by new efhisions of the Spirit ; but we object to representing the
entire new birth by water and Spirit, as the work of a moment, first, because
* As! llie word of believers is llie eflect of llie word of Christ, and is a manifestation
most directly of the understanding-, we may properly cite here, also, the tbllowing-
texts, a** examples of the fonjianction of the inlellcetnal with the spiritual element:
'
If (hon shall covfcss wilk thy mouth tlie Lord Jesus, and shall believe in thine heart that
God hath raised him from the dead, thou shall he saved.' Rom. 10: 9. *
They overcame
the dragon by the blood of the Lamb, and by the word of their testimony.' Rev. 12: 11.
TWOFOLD NATURE OF THE SECOND BIRTIL 235
tihe representation is unscriptural, and, secondly, because we believe they
who thus contract the time of the work, proportionably undervalue its im-
portance.
3. Wq perceive in the light of this subject, two egregious mistakes which
most religionists of the present day make in their application of the text
' Except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the
kingdom of God.' First, they bring down the term watei' from its spiritual
to its hteral meaning, thus making a carnal cerepaony one agent of the second
birth ; and secondly, they bring down in like manner the term spmi from the
glorious meaning which it had in the primitive church, to that inferior sense
which actually belongs to the term water, thus reducing the Christian dispen-
sation to the dead level of Judaism.
4. We see the importance of '
holding fast the form of sound words' on the
subject of the second birth. In almost every instance, where the work of
salvation is spoken of in the New Testament, we have seen it ascribed to a
twofold agency. Whoever conceives of it as the effect of outward instruction
alone, on the one hand, or of inward grace alone, on the other, has left the
light of scripture, and is sure to stumble in darkness. Carnal behevers are
prone to rely on outward agencies. To such we commend the correction of
the apostle—' Jesus Christ came not hy water only, but by water and hlood.'*
The danger to which spiritual persons are most exposed, is that of ascribing
the second birth to inward grace alone, or at least of not giving due impor-
tance to outward instruction. Much of the testimony in the Perfectionist of
1834-5, was of evil tendency in this respect. It Avas fashionable to run the
contrast between '
law and grace.' This phraseology makes grace alone the
rival and successor of the law. Now mark the language which an apostle
uses in stathig the contrast between the Mosaic and Christian dispensations
' The law was given by Moses, but grace and truth came by Jesus Christ.'
These are ' sound words.* The gospel is a dispensation not of grace alone,
as antinomian Perfectionists (if any such there be) maintain ; nor of grace
and law, as Oberlin Perfectionists maintain ; but of '
grace and truth,' ac-
cording to the word of God. It is not the power of God alone, nor the power
of God and the law of God, but ' the power of God and the wisdom of God.*
In thus conjoining truth with grace, we lay a foundation for all those measures
which were empLjyed in the primitive church, for the outward education and
correction of believers : we make the inculcation of '
sound doctrine' a full
counterpart and safe successor of the law.
Fmally, we exhort all who rejoice in the '
renewing of the Holy Ghost,' to
see to it that they are also ' sanctified and cleansed with the washing of wa-
ter by the word ; that they may be presented to Christ, glorious, not having
spot or wrmkle, or any such thing, but holy and without blemish.'
§ 32. TWO CLASSES OF BELIEVERS.
" As he spake these words, many believed on him. Then said Jesus to those
Jews which believed on him, If ye continue in my word, then are ye my disci-
ples indeed ; and ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free.
They answered him. We be Abraham's seed, and were never in bondage to any
man : how sayest thou. Ye shall be made free ? Jesus answered them, Verily,
verily, I say unto you. Whosoever committeth sin, is the servant of sin. And
the servant abideth not in the house for ever : but the Son abideth ever. If the
Son therefore shall make you free, ye shall be free indeed." John 8: 30—36.
REMARKS.
1. It is evident from this passage that persons may properly be said to
^believe on Christ,^ who are not saved from sin. Christ addressed those
who are here said to have '
beheved on him/ not as already children of God,
but as merely candidates for the knowledge of the truth, and for the liberty
of the gospel : and afterward he plainly told them that they were wicked
men. See ver. 37, 40, &c. Their believing on him was simply a recogni-
tion of his divine authority, and a surrender of themselves, more or less sin-
cere, to his tuition for the time being. They beheved on him in a general
way as a teacher, but they could not at that time believe on him as a spirit-
ua;l Savior, or in the specific doctrines by which ultimate salvation is effected,
because his revelation of himself in his spiritual character, and of his great
system of saving truth, had not then taken place, but was awaiting his death
and resurrection, and the effusion of the Spirit. They had entered the
school of the gospel, but had hardly yet commenced their studies, and knew
little or nothing of the spiritual science which was to be taught in that school,
or of its moral results. We learn, from the fact that they are said to have
' beheved on Christ,' that the term '
believer' is generic, and properly ex-
tends to all classes in the school ; from those who have just entered, and are
yet in a sinful state, to those who have attained full salvation. At the pres-
ent day, therefore, we should regard all as believers, who recognize the
divine authority of Christ, and surrender themselves to his instructions ; all
who submit themselves to the teachings of the Bible, and manifest faith in the
words of Christ, however general and indefinite. Revivals, and the efforts
of the churches, so far as they turn men to incipient faith, cause them to
respect and study the Bible, and thus introduce them to the school of the
gospel, are to be recognized as valuable and necessary agencies. There are
multitudes, undoubtedly, in the sinful churches, who have been brought by
these agencies to a submission to Christ as their instructor, and are there-
fore properly entitled t<5 the name of believers.
2. We observe that Christ did not regard mere incipient faith as a sure
pledge of true discipleship, but made continuance of faith the condition of
his promise of final illumination and liberty. ' He did not say to those who
believed on him, '
You are converted, and therefore your salvation is secure.'
TWO CLASSES OV BELIEVERS. 237
He did not preach to them the ' perseverance of the samts.' But he said,
' If ye continue in my word, then are y«i my disciples indeed, and ye shall
know the truth, and the truth shall make you free.' It is evident from the
subsequent account, that many of these believers did very soon fall away and
become bitter enemies of Christ. The fact then that a person is converted,
by the influence of a revival or other means, to a present attention to religion,
and submission to the instructions of Christ, does not insure his salvation.
He is, for the time being, a bejiever ; but whether he is a true disciple^ i. e.
a permanent pupil of Christ, remains to be seen. He has entered the school
but whether he has counted the cost of a spiritual education, so that he is
prepared to forsake father, mother, brother, sister, houses, lands and life, for
the knowledge of Christ, is not certain. The name of disciple properly be-
longs, not to mere believers, but to continuous believers. It is not to be
wondered that multitudes who are awakened by revivals to an acknowledg-
ment of the claims of Christ, never attain even to discipleship, but immedi-
ately fall away. They are generally led, by the influence of those who are
around and above them in the churches, to consider t]\c-mselves as born of
God and sure of heaven ; to look for no subsecpent conversion ; to expect
declension, rather than an upward course. If they were made to know at the
outset that conversion is but an entrance into a school, in which they will be re-
quired to advance steadily and patiently from truth to truth till they overcome
ALL SIN, and that until they thus graduate, they are only disciples, not sons of
God, not secure from apostasy and destruction, we might look for deeper
purposes and more durable conversions. However, even under the present
unfavorable influences, it is not to be doubted that many converts of the
Q]im:G]iQ^ continue to believe and seek the words of Christ, more or less ear-
nestly, and thus prove themselves true disciples.
3. We notice that the knowledge of the truth, and the liberty which it
gives, is promised to those who have entered upon a permanent discipleship,
as a future attainment. '
Ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make
you free.' This language implies that, though they have believed on Christ,
and are true disciples, they do not yet know the truth, and are not yet made
free ; though they have been converted, a second and greater conversion
awaits them, without which the first cannot avail to give them true freedom.
We remark also, that whereas the first conversion is an action or purpose of
their own—a voluntary movement by which they place themselves under the
instructions of Christ,—the second conversion is described as an effect wrought
upon them by truth. The first is proximately their own work ; the second
the operation of God. If they who labor to effect the first conversion by in-
structing men to 'change their purpose,' to '
make up their minds to serve
God,' &c., would also instruct them that this change of purpose and making
up the mind is the introduction not to the second birth, but only to disciple-
ship, and that they are to look forward to a second cfonversion, in which the
principal agent is not their own will, but the spiritual power of truth, there
would be no reasonable ground of objection to this kind of revival preaching.
4. It is apparent from the passage under consideration that the second
conversion which is promised to true disciples, is nothing less than a deliver-
238 TWO CLASSES OP BELIEVERS,
ance from all sin. When Christ ha/ said to them that believed on him, ' If
ye continue in my word ... ye fe>iall know the truth, and the truth shall
make you free,' they replied, (as persons having a high conceit of their own
state naturally would,) '
We be Abraham's seed, [i. e. members of the true
church,] and were never in bondage to any man : how sayest thou, Ye shall
be made free ?' He answered, 'Verily, verily^ I say unto you^ zvliosoever
committeth sin, is the servant of sin ;^ i. e., 'though you are Abraham's
seed, the chosen people of God, members of the true church, externally free-
men, though you even believe on me, and have commenced a true disciple-
ship, yet if you commit sin, the woi-st of slavery, viz. spiritual bondage, is
upon you.' Thus he plainly gave them to understand that when he said,
"*
Ye shall be made free,^ he referred to freedom from sin. And it is evi-
dent he intended freedom from all sin, from the obvious and necessary im-
port of the sentence, '
Whosoever committeth sin, is the servant of sin.'
'To say, (as some would have it,) ' Whosoever committeth sin habitually is
the servant of sin, would amount to this
—' Whosoever is the servant of sin,
is the servant of sin ;'
a mere tautology. The interpolation of the word
habitually, or of any equivalent word, is wholly unauthorized, unnecessary,
and destructive of the force of the passage. Christ's meaning manifestly is
that the commission of the least sin is proof of a sinful state of heart, and
consequently of permanent spiritual bondage to sin—a sentiment which the
scrutiny of sound theologians always confirms. Entire freedom from sin,
then, is the blessing which Christ promises to his true disciples, as the effect
of their ultimate knowledge of the truth. With any attainment short of
this, a man cannot be said to know the truth, or to possess the liberty of the
gospel. He may be a behever, and a true disciple, but he is not in the
highest sense a Christian. He has not taken the second degree in the gos-
pel, to which the first is only an introduction.*
* The inquiry may arise whether two conversions are necessary in all cases—whether
a person may not pass directly from a state o("irrelig"ion to perfect holiness. If we have
reg-ard, in answering this question, lo the great fact that Judaism preceded Christianity,
or to the general history of the primitive church, or to our own experience and the ex-
perience of most Perfectionists, we must say that it is at least a general principle, that
men by their first conversion are introduced to sinful discipleship, and that they reach
perfect holiness only by a second conversion. Indeed in the order of nature it is neees-
«arily true that the attention is first turned to religion in general, and only at a subse-
quent period to those particular truths of religion which give freedom from sin. More-
over we doubt whether men, without some preparatory religious influences, are in a
spiritual condition adapted to apprehend the advanced truths of the gospel. The reli-
igious influence necessary, however, may be supplied, in some cases, by the general
moral and religious education which is common to all in such a country as this, without
« profession of religion, or connection with a church. All persons, in a land of Bibles
and religious instruction, are necessarily in a spiritual state very different from that of
heathen. So that if we admit (as facts seem to require) that some have passed directly
from irreligion to perfect holiness, this would not invalidate the general principle, that
« preparatory religious state must precede mature Christian experience.
The true question in the matter is this : Admitting that in the order of nature a twofold
process is necessary, may not the interval between the first conversion and the second,
in the progress of God's victory over sin, be'shortened, so that they shall be to all in-
tents and purposes, one, so far as time is concerned ? We intiline to the affirmative.
It is obvious that the interval between the two conversions, even under present influ-
ences, is longer or shorter in proportion to the earnestness and intelligence of the sub-
jects. We believe that Paul, in consequence of the vehemence of his character, and hiss
fWO CLASSES OP BELIEVERS. 239^
6. We learn from this passage that the true division line between those
who have security of salvation and those who have not, lies between those
who are free from sin, and those who are not. After saying, '
Whosoever
committetii sin is the servant of sin,' thus determining who are servants,
Christ [)roceeds
—' The servant ahideili not in the house forever: hut the Son
abideth ever. If the Son therefore shall make you free, ye shall be free in-
deed.' In other words, '
He that commits sin is in a servile condition, and
like literal servants is exposed at any time to be dismissed from the household,
and must ultimately leave it, either by dismissal or by becoming a son. As
a servant, he is not a permanent member of the family. But a sod is by
blood indissolubly joined to his father, and has a natural, perpetual right in
the household. If therefore the Son of God, by the revelation of the truth,
shall make you free from all sin, and identify you with himself, you shall be
free from all fear ot dismissal from the household of God ; and this is freedom
indeed.' During the period of discipleship, then, i. e. after the first con-
version, and before the second, while the believer is on the one hand a pupil
in the school of Christ, and on the other a servant of sin, his relation to God
is not necessarily a peimanent one : he has no right to feel secure. But af-
ter the second conversion, when he has been made free from sin by the truth^
and has passed from discipleship to sonship, his relation to God is necessarily
permanent, and he has a right to feel secure.
We apprehend that the great dispute between Methodists and Calvinists
about the perseverance of the saints, might be adjusted by introducing the
theory of two conversions. Metliodists prove by appeal to a variety of texts,
that the promises of salvation are conditional. So indeed they are, to the
subjects of the first conversion. '
If «/e continue in my word, ... ye shall
know the truth.' Tliis if everywhere confronts those who are in a state of
sinful discipleship. On the other hand, Calvinists prove by appeal to an
equal variety of texts that the promises of salvation are unconditional.
Again we say, so indeed they are to the subjects of the second conversion.
' The Son abideth ever.^ '
Whosoever is born of God doth not commit sin ;
for his seed remaineth in him; and he cannot sin^ because he is born of God.'
While the first conversion is liable to failure, because it is in a degree the
work of man's will, the second is forever sure, because it is wholly the work
of God. The texts quoted by Methodists on one side, and by Calvinists on
the other, clash with each other when they are applied indiscriminately to
all believei-s ; but harmonize perfectly, when they are applied separately to
intellectual discipline, oulst: ipped those who were apostles before him, and reached the
truth which gives freedtfin from sin in advance of them all. It seems then not iinprob-^
able, that as the victory of trufh proi»-resses, God may accumulate influences \a hich
shall eflect in all cases, the same rapidity of Iransilion which was effected by individual
zeal and penelration in the case of Paul. If we take the passage of the Israelites from
Egypt to Canaan, as a type of the transition from the fist conversion to the second,
(and such an occomodatiou seems to be authorized by ] Cor. 10: 11,) we are led to the
conclusion that it is jiot necessary in the natui-e of thing's that theie should be a very
long interval. The Jews were forty years in the wilderness, between (he land of their
bondage and I he land of promise. But if they had been faithful to God, and fit for the
blessing's of the land *
flowing' with milk and honey,' they mig-ht have passed over in
a few davs.
240 TWO CLASSES OP BELIEVERS.
the two classes. Both parties in the controversy are right, and both are
wrong. The Methodists are riglit in asserting that sinful believers are liable
to fall away, but wrong in extending this assertion to those who are born of
God and saved from sin. The Calvinists are right in asserting that ' the
saints [i. e.' they who are saved from sin] will infallibly persevere unto eter-
nal life,' but wrong in extending this assertion to sinful believers. We agree
with the Methodists that the doctrine of the perseverance of the saints, as
applied to the subjects of the first conversion, tends to encourage carnal se-
curity and sloth, because it finds in them sinful hearts, prone to abuse bles-
sings. And wc agree with the Calvinists that the doctrine of the perseve-
rance of the saints, as applied to those who are really born of God, is safe
and edifying, because it finds in them no sin, and of course no disposition to
abuse it ; while it comforts, strengthens, and establishes them in holiness.
In like manner the chief dispute between Perfectionists and Imperfection-
ists, might be adjusted by recurrence to the theory of two classes of believers.
On the one hand. Perfectionists insist that the primitive believers were per-
fectly holy. This is a truth which can never be successfully assailed, so long
as it i"s limited in its application to those who had advanced from primary
discipleship to that knowledge of the truth which according to Christ's prom-
ise, makes free from sin ; whom Paul called '
spiritual' and ' perfect,' (1 Cor.
2: 6—15, Gal. 6: 1, Phil. 3: 15,) and John called '
sons of God.' (IJohn
3: 1, compare 3: 9, and 5: 18.) On the other hand, Imperfectionists insist
that the primitive believers were carnal. This is a truth equally unassailable,
if it is restricted to those who were ^
babes in Christ,'* i. e. incipient believ-
ers. By confounding the two classes, and arraying the texts which relate to
them separately, in opposition to each other, an endless dispute may be spun
out on the question whether perfect holiness existed in the primitive church.
By admitting the distinction of classes, and assigning each text to its appro-
priate class. Perfectionists may allow full force to all the evidence which their
opponents adduce to prove the sinfulness of the primitive church, and yet
maintain their position that perfect holiness existed in that church, and is the
standard of mature Christianity.
It was the special glory of the primitive church, that its platform was
broad enough to hold all believers—from those who were just beginning to
struggle with sin, to those who had attained perfect and everlasting holiness.
On the one hand it did not, like the platforms of mostmodern churches, bar
out those who beheved and professed perfection ; and on the other, it did not,
like the platforms of many ultra-Perfectionists, thrust all sinful disciples
* This expression (in 1 Cor. 3: 1) evidently does not refer, as imperfectionists g-ener-
ally insist, to tlie infancy of the divine nature, which constitutes men sons of God. If
it did, the passag-e in which it occurs, by representing- 'babes in Christ' as sinful,
would directly contradict IJohn 3: 9—* Whosoever is born of God doth not commit sin,'
&c. Tlie natural meaning of the expression is, infant bdicversin Christ; and this is a
very diflerent term from infant sons of God. The term believer, as we have seen, covers
both classes in the school of Christ; w^hile the term son of God, belongs only to th^d
advanced class. A recent believer may be called a '
babe in Christ' with reference to
the infancy of his belief, and without any reference to his spiritual nature. Infant ic-
fiercrs are undoubtedly 'carnal,' but *
he that is born of God, [whether infant orrnature,]
doth not commit sin.'
TWO CLASSES OF BELIEVERS. 241
* into outer darkness :'
but it made room for all ;
gave a home of union and
love to all ; and every one, whether weak or strong in faith, found there his
' portion of meat in due season.' Such a platform is glorious, because it
bridges over the whole chasm between a sinful world and heaven. The plat-
foi-ms of most modern churches are near enough to a sinful world, but there
is a '
great gulf between them and heaven : and the platforms of many
modern Perfectionists are near enough to heaven, but there is a 'great gulf
between them and a sinful world. The platform of the primitive church
united the advantages of both. It was not a starving settlement at the foot
of Mount Zion, where men only hoped to reach the top after death ; nor yet
was it an armed and frowning fortress on the top of that Mount, where a
favored few gloried in their exaltation, while they repulsed from them a world
of sinners : but it was a ' w^ay of holiness' reaching from the very foot
y
to the very top of Zion, easily accessible to the world at one end, and open- y
ing into the glories of eternity at the other. On it the ransomed of the
Lord, of every grade of faith, found footing and help, for their whole jour-
ney from earth to heaven. Such a church platform is the very thing needed
above all others at the present hour. Wesley and his associates almost suc-
ceeded in re-opening the way of holiness ; but they failed. Their chief at-
tention was directed to the lower end of the road, and so they neglected to
clear away fully the rubbish at the upper end. The main body and ruling
power of their church was, from the beginning, the lower class of believers ;
and their efforts were chiefly directed to the work of effecting the first con-
version. Perfect holiness was only a secondary appendage to Methodism,
even in its best days. Hence as the life of that church has decayed, its at-
tention to perfection has naturally grown less and less, till now it is like the
other churches, only a school for sinful disciples. The lower class of behevers
has swallowed up the other, and now occupies the whole platform. Besides,
Wesley, in denying the security of the higher class, left a dismal barrier at
the upper end of the way of holiness, , which broke the communication of his
church with heaven. These remarks may be apphed -without much alteration,
to Oberlin Perfectionism, which, in respect to the secondary place of perfect
hohness, the insecurity of the higher class of behevers, and every other essen-
tial feature, is only an attempted repetition of the system of Wesley. The
erection of a church in which perfect and everlasting holiness shall reign at
the centre, while believers in every stage of discipleship shall find in it a
home, is a work which remains yet to be done. And it must be done before
the kingdom and dominion under the whole heaven can be given to the saints
of the Most High.
A practical deduction from the views that have been presented which we
wish in conclusion to suggest and impress, is, that Perfectionists ought not to
despise and oppose '
revivals,' (by which we mean special awakenings of at-
tention to the general subject of religion,) but to encourage and promote them,
so far as this can be done without sacrificing any part of the truth of the
gospel, and so far as they are directed to the general object of turning men
from mammonism and vanity, to the fear of the Lord and attention to his
word. Such revivals, though they do not place their converts on the ground
30
Si2 THE gPIRITUAL MAK.
of perfect bolmes9, introduce tliem to the school of Christ, and make thei»
candidates for the knowledge of the truth and the liberty of the gospel.
Perfectionism was born at New Haven in such a revival ; and most of those
who have become Perfectionists within the last ten years, had previously been
converts and laborers in such revivals. The first conversion, though it has
not the secuiity, and of itself cannot save the soul, is a preparatory step to
the second conversion, and as such should be valued.
At the same time we ought to remember that it is hut half a revival^ where
non-professors only are converted. A whole revival would be one in which^
as fast as ' the '
impenitent' were converted to discipleship, the ' professors'
would be converted to perfect holiness. The work of conviction would ad-
vance as fast in the church as out of it; and the shout of ' sinners saved from,
hell/ would be answered by the shout of ' Christians' saved from sin.
§ 33. THE SPIRITUAL MAN.
We have heretofore shown that regeneration is the peculiar attainment
of the Christian dispensation ; that the legal or semi-spiritual experience of
-Judaism was only the preparative of this attainment ; that there were two
classes of believers in the primitive church—a carnal class, not free from
sin, though baptized with the Spirit—and a spiritual or perfect class, to
whom alone belonged the title of 'sons of God.' We have shown also that
the transition from the first to the second class, though not very distinctly
marked in the writings of the apostles, clearly took place in individual cases,
as early as the middle of the apostolic age, and in greater numbers at a later
period. We have ascribed this transition to the power of Christ's resurrec-
tion, apprehended and appropriated by the believer in his inmost life ; and
we have defined the change as one in which the flesh is crucified and the
spirit raised to victory, so that the subject ceases to be carnal, and becomes
truly a spiritual man. We propose now to examine the records of the primi-
tive church with a view to obtaining a more exact idea of the traits of char-
acter which distinguish spiritual from carnal believers.
1. The first point we notice is that the spiritual man has a reneivedmind.
'He that is spiritual,' says Paul, 'judgeth [i. e. discerneth] all things.'
ICor. 2: 15. The reason of this is that he 'has the mind of Christ.' Yer. 16.
His intellect is not only under the influence of that Spirit which '
searcheth
the deep things of God,' but is assimilated to it, and acts in unison with it.
He has the mind of the '
new man, which is renewed in knowledge after the
image of him that created him.' Col. 3: 10. (See also Eph. 4: 23, & Rom.
12: 2.) This renewed mind is strong and penetrating. Like the Word of
God by which it is created, and to which it is assimilated, it is '
quick and
powerful, sharper than any two-edged sword ;' and in a certain sense we may
THE SPIRITUAL MAN. 24S
feay that ' all things are naked and open to it.* Hence it receives without
staggering and readily apprehends divine mysteries which mere human intel-
lects are unable to see or bear. ' We speak wisdom,' says Paul, '
among
them that are perfect,—even the hidden wisdom of God in a mystery. Eye
hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man,
the things which God hath prepared for them that love him. But he hath
revealed them unto us by his spnit,—w^hich things also we speak.' 1 Cor. 2:
6—1-3. But he did not speak these things to carnal behevers. To the mass
of the Corinthian church he said, ' I, brethren, could not speak unto you as
unto spiritual, but as unto carnal, even as unto babes in Christ. I have fed
you with milk, and not with meat ; for hitherto ye were not able to bear it
neither yet now are ye able.' 1 Cor. 3: 12. They were baptized by thd
Spirit, but they had not the renewed mind, and were unfit for the discover-
ies which God held in readiness for them. In the same manner Paul dis-
coursed to the Hebrews. '
We have many things to say, and hard to bo
understood, seeing that ye are dull of hearing. For when for the time ye
ought to be teachers, ye have need that one teach you again what be the first
principles of the oracles of God ; and are become such as have need of milk,
and not of strong meat. For every one that useth milk is unskilful in the
word of righteousness ; for he is a babe : [nepios, in Greek, which is the
word used in 1 Cor. 3: 1.] For strong meat belongeth to them that are of
full age, [or perfect—teleios in Greek, the word used in 1 Cor. 2: 6,] even
those who by reason of use have their senses exercised to discern both good
and evil.' Heb. 5: 11—14. In both of these passages (1 Cor. 2, and Heb.
5,) the same two classes—the nepioi and the teldoi, the hahes and the pei'-
feet—are defined ; and the perfect are distinguished from the babes by hav-
ing a far-seemg, discriminating, robust, spiritual understanding. To these
we will add another passage, of kindred character, in which some important
fruits of the renewed mind are brought to view. ' He gave some apostles,
and some prophets, &c., for the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the
ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ : till we all come in the unity
of the faith, and of the knowledge of the Son of God, unto a perfect [teleiori]
man, unto the measure of the stature of the fulness of Christ : that we hence-
forth be no more children, [nepioi,'] tossed to andfro, and carried about hy
every wind of doctrine, by the sleight of men, and cunning craftiness, where-
b'y they lie in wait to deceive.' Eph. 4: 11—14. The mind of Christ not
only apprehends freely the mysteries of God, but detects readily the impos-
tures of the devil ; so that the spiritual man is firm and steady in the truth
of the gospel. We may take this as a sure criterion of the state of behev-
ers. They who are 'tossed to andfro and carried about with every wind
of doctrine,^ are babes, i. e. carnal believers. Spiritual believers are stable-
minded.
2. Another distinguishing characteristic of the spiritual man is a loving
heart. For proof of this point we might adduce the whole of John's first-
epistle, which is almost exclusively devoted to defining the character of a
regenerate man, and constantly makes brotherly love the leading test-mark.
But we will continue our examination of Paul. He says in the sequel of his
244 THE SPIRITUAL MAN.
discourse to the Corinthians concerning the distinction between the carnal
and the spiritual man—* Ye are yet carnal ; for whereas there is among you
envying^ and strife, and divisions, [or factions,'] are ye not carnal, and
walk as meiif 1 Cor. 3: 3. Separation from the world, and stern warfare
with its evils, are not evidences of carnality ; but envyings, strifes and fac-
tions within the circle of believers, testify unequivocally that selfish, unre-
newed hearts are there. The apostle does not halve the matter. He recog-
nizes no such thing as an envious, contentious spiritual man. The import. of
his testimony is, that among spiritual believers there is no quarreHng. This
result flows in part from the fact, already brought to view, that such believ-
ers have a renewed mind, the mind of Christ, and consequently thmk in
unison. But its true source is the renewed heart. The spiritual man
* dwells in love.' He has gained the crown of all attainments, the ' bond of
perfectness,' which is charity. Carnal believers may have many of the ex-
ternal gifts of the Spirit ; but the spiritual only have that loving heart which
* sufiereth long, and is kind, envieth not, vaunteth .not itself, is not puifed
up, doth not behave itself unseemly, seeketh not her own, is not easily pro-
voked, thinketh no evil ; rejoiceth not in iniquity, but rejoiceth in the truth;
beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all things;
never faileth.' ICor. 13: 4—8. This unquestionably is the grand attamment
which divides the spiritual from the carnal believer—the full-born son of
God from the ' babe in Christ.' For Paul says—' Though I speak with the
tongues of men and of angels, and have not charity, I am become cts soun-
ding brass and a tinkling cymbal ; and though I have the gift of prophecy,
and understand all mysteries, and all knowledge, and though I have all faith,
so that I could remove mountains, and have not charity, 1 am nothing ; and
though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, and though I give my body to
be burned, and have not charity, it projiteth me notJiing.'^ 1 Cor. 13: 1—3.
Here are many and great gifts and graces w^hich a man may have, and yet
not be a son of God. It should be noticed that charity is distinguished not
only from gifts of utterance, revelations, and wonder-working faith, but even
from that which is commonly accoimted charity, viz. benevolence to the poor,
and from self-sacrificing devotion. Indeed any one w^ho will study the defi-
nition of charity above quoted, will perceive that it is far from being that
outward-bound, bustling quality of character which usually passes for reli-
gious benevolence. Its elements are mostly negative. The idea of '
doing
good' is not very prominent in it, but as Paul says of it in another place,
* it worketh no ill.'* It is just that quality which fits a man to live in social
contact with his fellow men, ivithout giving offense, and without taking of-
fense, It impUes a thorough extinction of selfishness, a perfect appreciation
of the interests of others and of the value of peace, and a quiet reliance on
the faithfulness of eternal love. The man who has it 2vill Hve in peace, in
spite of all the sons of discord. He cannot be drawn into an envious, grudging,
murmuring, evil-eyed spirit.
And here we may remark that this unobtrusive spiritual quahty is what is
needed for the cure of the world's miseries, far more than an enlargement of
the ' domg-good' sort of benevolence, or an extension of the rules of the
THE SPIRITUAL MAN. 245
Peace Societies, or the Introduction of the social principles of Fourier and
Owen. Whoever has looked into the world reflectingly, knows that selfish-
ness, engendering jealousies and strife, is the most vmiversal and inveterate
malady of human society. Charity, as defined by Paul, is the cure for this
malady. With charity the world might be a very comfortable Paradise,
though its external institutions should remain unchanged. Without it, the
most perfect organization can only be a well disciplined Bedlam.
Charity is the very essence of holiness. The terras holiness, perfection,
salvation from sin, &c., except as they are used as designations of charity,
are mere shibboleths. The idea of being sons of God before charity is at-
tained, is false, if Paul is true ; for he says, '
If I have not charity, 1 mn
nothing.^ Our second criterion therefore of the state of believers, is this
JEJnv?/ings, stnfes, andfactions are marks of carnal believers. Spiritual be-
lievers are free from selfishness^ and have heai^ts of love and peace which
exclude strife.
3. Another characteristic of the spiritual man is an unquenchable desire
of progress. Paul was certainly a fit representative of the spiritual class.
Let us see what was his state of mind. He says—' I count all things but
loss, for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ ; that I may know him,
and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, being
made conformable unto his death ; if by any means I might attain unto the
resurrection of the dead. I^ot as though I had already attcmied, either were
already perfect : but I follow after, if that I may apprehend that for which
also I am apprehended of Christ Jesus. Brethren, I count not myself to
have apprehended : but this one thing I do ; forgetting those things ivhich
are behind^ and reaching forth unto those things which are before^ Ipress
toward the mark for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus.
Phil. 3: 8—15. Was there ever a more vivid expression of God-like ambi-
tion ! The apostle adds—' Let us therefore, as many as be perfect,
BE thus minded ;' —and '
thus minded' will every one be who is truly spir-
itual. A thirst for progressive conquest in the field of spiritual attainment,
belongs to the very nature of the renewed mind and the loving heart ; and
no imagination of having attained to unimprovable perfection, or of being a
passive subject of grace, will prevent the spiritual man from pressing onward
in the knowledge and service of Christ.
The leading characteristics of the spiritual man, then, are a discriminating
and stable mind, a quiet, loving heart, and an energetic ambition for im-
provement. We do not say that a man who is destitute of these may not be
a Perfectionist in the large sense of the term, for that properly enough in-
cludes all w^ho believe in the theory of holiness ; but we do say that without
these characteristics a man cannot be called ' perfect' or ' spiritual' in the
primitive sense ;—^he belongs among the nepioi, not among the teleioi.
§ 34. SPIRITUAL PUBERTY.
The second birth differs materially from natural birth in one respect, viz.-,
•
—the latter is the beginning of a new personal existence, while the former
is a change superinduced upon a previous personal existence. In natural
birth a person altogether new begins to exist ; the present life of that person
is not the continuation or product of an antecedent life ; his memory goes not
back to a time before he was born. But when a man is ' born again,' his
new state is based on a former life ; he carries with him the consciousness of
a past existence ; his memory refers to a period before his spiritual birth, as
well as after it ; his life is new as being changed, but not new as commencing
existence ; his spirit has received new vitality and he dwells in a new element,
but his individual properties and powers, constitutional and acquired, are
those which he had when he was a natural man.
And it is not merely with reference to natural life that regeneration is a
•continuation rather than a beginning of existence. It is manifest from the
representations of scripture, as we have shown heretofore, that there is a spe-
cies of spiritual Hfe previous to regeneration. Under the Jewish dispensa-
tion, and in the case of the disciples, both before and after the baptism of the
Spirit, there was a transitional religious experience, partly legal and partly
spiritual, which distinguished them from natural men, but did not constitute
them sons of God. Regeneration—the peculiar attainment of the Christian
dispensation—had, in all cases, so far as we know, this preliminary experience
for its basis. In becoming sons of God, men were conscious of a continuation
not Only of a past existence, but of a previous spiritual life. The regenerate
state was the crowning product—the harvest—of the transitional state.
With an eye to this difference between natural birth and the second birth,
we perceive, that in forming our conceptions of the change wiiich takes place
in regeneration, by help of natural analogies, we ought to choose our illustra-
tions from cases which present a transition from one form of life to another,
rather than from those in which there is only a beginning of existence. If
the doctrine of metempsychosis were true, and if men in their present natural
existence had a continuation of the consciousness wiiich belonged to a previous
existence, natural birth would be a satisfactory illustration of the second birth.
But as facts are, regeneration is really more like the change which takes
place when the worm becomes a butterfly, than like the birth of a child ; for
the butterfly's life is a continuation of the life of the worm ; whereas the
child's life is an absolute beginning.
The New Testament furnishes an illustration such as the case demands.
Christ says :
—' So is the kingdom of God, as if a man should cast seed into
the ground ; and should sleep, and rise night and day, and the seed should
spring and grow up, he knowcth not how. For the earth bringeth forth fruit
of herself ; first the blade; then the ear ; after that^ the full corn in the ear.
But when the fruit is brought forth, immediately he putteth in the sickle,
because the harvest is come.' Mark 4: 26—29. It matters little whether
SPIRITUAL PUBERTY. 2iT
Christ designed this to be a similitude of the kingdom of God as an extended
dispensation, or of that kingdom as existing in the souls of individuals ; for
one of these is the correspondent of the other, and the parable is therefore
applicable to both. Christ used the figure of seed-sowing so often to repre-
sent the growth of the word of God in individuals, that we naturally under-
stand him as using it so here. What then are we taught by this similitude ?
1. It divides the spiritual growth which follows the implantation of the word,
into three developments 'fi7'st the blade; then the ear ; after tJiat, the full
corn in the ear.^ 2. Since the ear is all that is ultimately valuable in the
plant, and that is the second developement, the parable teaches by impHcation
that the essential form of spiritual life—that which alone is really fruitful and
profitable—is not evolved when the word is first implanted, but appears at a
subsequent period, after a preliminary process of inferior experience. 3. The
growth of the ear to its fulness before the harvest, is a fit emblem of that
ripening of character by discipline which precedes the transfer of spiritual
believers to the resurrection world. The reader cannot fail to see that the
sketch presented in this parable exajctly tallies with the theory of spiritual life
which we have heretofore deduced from the records of the primitive church.
The great facts of our theory are these ; 1. The implantation of the word ;
2, a semi-spiritual, semi-sinful experience ; 3, the second birth, or commence-
ment of holiness ; 4, the discipline by which the sons of God are perfected
5, the judgment. Corresponding to these we have in the parable, 1, the
sowing of the seed ; 2, the growth of the blade ; 3, the development of the
ear ; 4, the growth of the ear to its fulness ; 5, the harvesting. The second
birth, then, is represented by the development of the ear ; and of course it
bears the same relation to the semi-spiritual state which precedes it, as the
development of the ear bears to the growth of the blade. Now the plant .-
preserves its identity through all the processes of its growth. The birth of
the ear, though a distinct and very important phenomenon, is not like the
birth of a child, an absolute beginning of individual existence, but it is a
crisis commencing a new stage in the growth which began at the germination
of the blade. At this crisis the flow^er of the plant discloses itself, the pollen
descends upon it, impregnation takes place, and seed answering to that w^hich
was sown, and containing the perpetu^ing principle, first begins to exist.
This is obviously the all-important operation of the plant ; and yet its place
is neither at tlie beginning nor at the end of the vegetating process, but
midway between the seed-sowing and the harvest ; it is based on a previous
grow^th, and is matured by a subsequent grow^th. So we say that the second
birth—the grand crisis of spiritual life, when the heart opens to resurrection-
truth, and the spirit of adoption descends upon it, when Christ is formed in
the soul, and the w^ord begins to bear fruit ' after its kind'—is a change which
takes place, not at the first conversion, nor yet at the judgment, but midway ^
between the two, and is based on a previous experience, and matured by a ^
subsequent experience.
On the ground which w^e have gained by this similitude, we may now ad-
vance to a more exact illustration of the second birth. And here it should
be remarked that the value of such illustrations as we have presented, and
248 SPIHITUAL PUBERTY.
are about to present, does not lie merely in the help which the resemblances
they involve give to our conceptions. There is in them a substratum of more
substantial argument. The discoveries of science have demonstrated that
vegetable and animal life are powers of the same kind, exhibiting, in all impor-
tant respects, like processes of growth and reproduction. And all advance of
discovery, in the Bible and out of it, tends to the conclusion that spiritual Hfe
is a third power of the same order, acting under similar laws. We may find,
therefore, in the vegetable and animal kingdoms, not only illustrations, but
analogies having in some degree the force of positive argument, for our assis-
tance in the investigation of spiritual phenomena.
Our first similitude was taken from the vegetable kingdom. We will now
trace the analogy between the processes of animal life and those of the '
king-
dom of God.' The natural life of man (commencing from birth) presents a
succession of developments, closely resembling those which Christ traced hi
the growth of a plant 'first the blade ; then the ear ; after that^ the full
corn in the ear.^ Childhood is the ^ blade.' At this period of life, human
beings are entirely destitute of at least one of the normal faculties of animal
existence, viz., the power of reproduction. And this fact in regard to their
bodies undoubtedly has its counterpart in their susceptibilities and intellects.
They are only the preparatory rudiments of men and women—blades without
ears. The attainment oi puberty is the development of the ^ear.' At the age
of fourteen years (more or less) a new and distinct stage of existence begins.
This is, in fact, the crisis when human beings, considered as integral men and
women, are born. A new life manifests itself in them, changing their physical
organizations, and giving them new susceptibilities, by which they are quali-
fied for the dual relations which belong to full-born human existence, and for
reproduction. The ripening of men and women mio fulness of strength and
parentage is fitly represented by the growth of the '
full corn in the ear.'
But we need not go further into this part of the parallel. It is sufficient for
our purpose if we have presented distinctly the correspondence between the
birth of the ear in the plant, and the development of puberty in man. Now
as we have seen that the birth of the ear tallies with the second birth, it fol-
lows that the attainment of puberty is also the parallel of that spiritual crisis.
At the first view some objections m|y arise against this result ; but w^e are
persuaded that on further consideration it will be seen that the crisis of
puberty is a more correct representation of regeneration than literal birth.
Several trains of thought lead to this persuasion, among which are the fol-
lowing :
1. The second birth, as we said at the beginning, is not the commence-
ment of a new individuality, but a change superinduced vipon a previous
personal existence ; and the case which is wanted in order to a perfect illus-
tration of this change, is one in which there is a transition, not from non
existence to existence, but from one form of life to another. Literal birth,
considered as the beginning of a child's existence, is not such a case. True,
we may go back of actual birth, and trace in the embryo the same succession
of developments which we have noted in the plant. There is the begetting,
answering to the sowing of the seed ; the primary growth without motion,
SPIRITUAL PUBERTY. 249
answering to the blade ; the quickenmg of the embryo, answering to the
birth of the ear ; the subsequent maturing of the child, answering to the
growth of the corn to its fulness ; and the birth, answering to the harvest.
The correspondence of all this with the true theory of spiritual growth is as
remarkable as the parallel in the case of the plant ; and it goes to prove that
the laws of life are the same in all departments. But the objection is that
birth of this kind is a transition from an unconscious existence to a conscious
one ; i. e. it is the heginning oipersonal existence ; whereas regeneration is
a transition from one kind of personal existence to another, with a conscious-
ness of identity going before and after. Moreover, in the case in question,
according to the above sketch ot the embryo processes, it is the quiclcening
of the child before birth, and not birth itself, w^hich corresponds to the devel-
opment of the ear in the plant, and of course to the second birth, as repre-
sented in the New Testament. This makes an incongruity. If we take the
embryo process bt/ itself as a parallel of the growth of spiritual life, and
reckon the birth as the correspondent of the resurrection, congruity is pre-
served. But in that case we have only the growth of an unconscious sub-
stance for our illustration of the second birth, as we had in the case of the
plant. The transition from one form of conscious life to another is not rep-
resented. Whereas if we take the crisis of puberty for our illustration of
the change which takes place in regeneration, the correspondence is com*
plete—we have personal consciousness going before and after the birth.
2. The apostles appear to have had in view puberty rather than literal
birth, as the type of regeneration. This is not stated directly in any of their
writings, but the terms by which they distinguish the first class of believers
from the second, agree entirely with the relations of childhood and puberty,
but do not agree with the relations of the embryo condition and birth. The
preceding article, entitled '
The Spiritual Man,' exhibits the apostolic mode
of characterizing carnal and spiritual believers. The carnal are called nepioiy
which is properly rendered babes or children, but cannot be refered to em-
hri/os. The nepioi spoken of in Gal. 4: 3, are clearly the semi-spiritualists
of the whole Jewish dispensation; while those spoken of in ICor. 3: 1, Eph.
4: 14, and Heb. 5: 13, are clearly a semi-spiritual class in the primitive
church. The word nepioi, therefore, does not belong to a special form of
Christian experience, but characterizes all sinful believers—all who are in the
JZac?^ -state. Indeed it belongs appropriately, and we might say exclusively,
to Jewish experience ; though, in the transition period, Jewish experience
runs into the Christian dispensation. The spiritual are called teleioi, which
is properly rendered pterfect, complete, offull age, full grown, &c. These
significations fall in with the idea of puberty, but not so well with that of lit-
eral birth ; and the antithesis between the teleioi and the nepnoi in 1 Cor. 2:
6, 3: 1, Eph. 4: 13, 14, and Heb. 5: 13, 14, shows that the teleioi are 'per-
fect' in contradistinction from children and not from embryos. It must be
borne in mind in the mean time that the teleioi only are reckoned as regen-
erate or ' sons of God' in the New Testament. If there is any incongruity
in caUing carnal believers '
babes' and '
children,' and yet not reckoning them
€ts ' bom of God,* it is to bo charged to the apostles, not to us, as we cau
31
250 SPIEITUAL POBERTY.
easily show. In tlie first place we have in the 1st epistle of John repeated
and categorical definitions of regeneration, which absolutely exclude carnal
behevers, i. e. '
babes.' See 1 John 3: 9, 5: 18. In the next place Paul in
Gal. 4: 1—7, applies the word nefioi to Jewish believers—to persons under
the law 'differing nothing from servants ;'
nay, he expressly calls the nepioi
'servants' in distinction from 'sons,' (see ver. 7,) and specifies the time and
manner of their transition from the servant state to sonship, i. e. the time and
manner of their hirth. His words are these :
' When we were children [nepioi]
we were in bondage under the elements of the world. But when the fulness
of the time was come, God sent forth his Son .... to redeem them that
were under the law, that we might receive the adoption of sons ; and because
ye are sons, God hath sent forth the spirit of his Son into your hearts, crying,
abba. Father. Wherefore thou art no more a servant, but a son.' Certainly
the change which takes place when believers receive the sjjirit of Ms Son into
their hearts, is the regeneration of the New Testament. The apostles did not
recognize any as '
sons of God,' '
born again,' before this-change. Paul says
with express reference to the very '
spirit of adoption' mentioned above ^As
many as are led hy the spirit of God they are the sons of God ;' (Rom.
8: 14 ;) meaning plainly that they who have not received the spirit of adop-
tion are not sons of God. Yet we see that legal and carnal believers—per-
sons who had not received the spirit of adoption—are called nejjioi, i. e.
children^ in the passage above quoted. The position therefore is impregnable
that in the usage of the New Testament believers are called babes and chil-
dren, while yet they are not reckoned regenerate—that the teleioi only, and
not the nepioi, are called '
sons of God.' The apparent incongruity of this
use of terms can be disposed of satisfactorily only by assuming that in the
minds of the apostles the second birth occupied the place in spiritual growth,
which puberty occupies in natural growth. Regarding pubjsrty as in a sub-
stantial sense the bii^th of men and women, (which it really is,) we may
properly speak of those who have not attained it, as babes and children, and
yet hold that they are not born. This unties many a knot in the New
Testament.*
3. The nature of the change which takes place in regeneration is illustra-
ted more exactly by puberty than by literal birth. We have already remarked
on the advantage of having an illustration in which there is a continuation of
personal consciousness from the first state to the second. But there are some
* Possibly this view may throw litrht on the classification of believers in IJohn 2:
12—14. The kittle children had the forj^iveness of sins and a knovvleds^e of the Father;
(perhaps such kmowledj^e as is alluded to in John 14: 1;) but it would seem from the
first verse of the chapter that they were not free from sin. These may be the nepioi. If
they were not free from sin they certainly could not come under the apostle's subsequent
definition of regeneration. The 'young men' were *
strong-, and the word of God abode
in them, and they had overcome the wicked one.' These are the characteristics of the
teleioi, i. e. of those who have attained puberty or the birth of manhood. The [fathers'
had '
known him that is from the bcp^inning-,' i. e. had attained that full knowledg-e of
Christ and fellowship with lum which John liimself professed to have. (See the first
verses of the epistle, an'<l compare the phrase '
from the beginning-,' in chap. 2, 13, 14,
-with the same in ehnp. 1: 1.) Does not this classification correspond to that in Mark 4:
28—' first the blade, ['little children ;'] then the ear, [* young men ;] after that the full
corn ia the ear, ['fathers.']?
SPIRITUAL PUBERTY. 251
further considerations connected with this which should be brought into view.
In the first place, the development of puberty, like regeneration, is a siib-
jective change, while literal birth is in a great measure ohje'Mve. By this
we mean, that pubescence like regeneration is a change ivitJiin the person, a
latent evolution of life ; while birth is, in part at least, a visible, mechanical
change of external condition. Here we may see why the crisis of the second
birth is so obscurely marked on the records of the primitive church. We
know that there were two classes in that church, and that regener^ttion was
the transition-process between them. The question has often been asked
Why do we find those classes apparently running into each other, without any
clear line of demarkation between them ?—why is not the second birth rep-
resented in the New Testament as a notable, definite event, like literal birth?
The old methods of illustration give no satisfactory answer to this question.
But taking the crisis of puberty for the type of regeneration, we find a rear
dy solution. Pubescence is not a visible and violent process. It would be
difficult to say exactly when it begins or when it ends. It is latent, though
it has its external signs. It is gradual, though it is bounded by certain gen-
eral limits of time. We are persuaded that regeneration in the primitive
church was a change quite analogous to this. It is not to be expected that
such a change should be as well defined on the chart of experience as literal
birth, or as the popular process of conversion. The external line of division
between the '
children' and the '
young men' must from the nature of the
ease be obscure.
Again, at the period of puberty there is a special development of the so-
cial susceptibihties. Love in its worldly form then becomes an element of
life. The change is obviously analogous to that which takes place in the
plant when the flower discloses itself and fructification commences. So also
at the crisis of the second birth, true spiritual love becomes an element of
the behever's life. The special connection between love and regeneration
may be seen in such passages as these :
—' Beloved, let us love one another,
for love is of God, and every one that loveth is born of Crod, and knoweth
God, He that loveth not, knoweth not God, for God is love.' 1 John 4:
7, 8. '
Seeing ye have purified your souls in obeying the truth through the
Spirit, unto unfeigned love of the brethren, see that ye love one another with
a pure heart fervently: beimj born again, not of corruptible seed, but of in-
corruptible, by the word of God? 1 Pet. 1: 22, 23. Paul, in 1 Cor. 13,
speaks of '
tongues of men and of angels,' prophecy, understanding of mys-
teries, knowledge, faith that can remove mountains, beneficence to the poor,
and martyr-devotion, as the attainments of children. See ver. 8—11.
With all these, a man may be 'nothing;' i. e. not a ' son of God.' These are
but the 'blades' of faith. What then is the 'ear'—the peculiar characteristic
of spiritual puberty—the attainment which makes a man's religion a sub-
stantial and fruitful reality, and entitles him to the name of a son of God ?
Again and again the apostle answers—' it is love—^love that suffereth long
and is kind—love that envieth not,' &c. &c. The reader will perceive that
literal birth fails entirely, as an illustration on this point, wliile the analogy
between pubescence and the second birth is strikingly complete.
252 THE POWER OF CHRIST'S RESURRECTION.
It may be objected that the advent of puberty is not a change of unportanee
enough to be called a hirth^ or a resmrectiooi, or a netv creation^ which are
the titles of regeneration in the New Testament. But perhaps the impor-
tance of tlie change in question is not duly considered. Fashionable dehcacy
casts a veil over it and probably would prefer not to recognize it at all. It is
manifestly the birth of a new life, new susceptibiUties and new faculties, not
mdeed by themselves, but in a life previously existing. And it must be re-
membered that regeneration certainly is not a birth or a resurrection or a
creation of new hfe by itself. The subject of the change had a previous life
and consciousness, into wliich the new life enters. The latency or internal-
ity of the birth in the case of puberty, instead of being an objection, is an ar-
gument in its favor ; for regeneration is certainly a latent, internal change.
The secresy and obscurity of the processes of grace are indicated in the par-
able on which we commented at the beginning. '
So is the kingdom of God,
as if a man shoidd cast seed into the ground, and should sleep and rise, night
and day, and the seed should spring and grow up, he knoweth not how,'' A
similar intimation seems to be intended in John 3: 8. '
The wind bloweth
where it listeth, and thouhearest the sound thereof, 6u^ canst not tell whence
it Cometh and ivhither it goeth : so is every one that is born of the spirit.'
On the whole it seems plain that by adopting in our mmds the advent of
puberty mstead of literal birth, as the emblem of regeneration, we shall ob-
tain truer ideas of the change—ideas more like those of the primitive church
—and shall find a solution of many dark problems in the language of tho
apostles and in the phenomena of experience around us.
§ 35. THE POWER OF CHRIST'S RESURRECTION.
Paul mentions '
the resurrection of the dead,' (Heb. 6: 2,) as one of the
fundamental doctrines of the gospel. It will be found by an examination of
all those passages in his writings which distinctly state the great topics of his
preachmg, that this subject was held by him as paramount in importance to
all others—not excepting even the death of Christ. The discussion of the
resurrection in the 15th chapter of 1 Corinthians, commences thus :
'
Breth-
ren, I declare unto you the gosjjel which I preached unto you, which also ye
have received, and wherein ye stand ; by which also ye are saved,'' &c.
After briefly stating the death of Christ, the apostle presents the fact of his
resurrection, as the sole foundation of the behever's hope, and the chief sub-
ject of that gospel which he had received and preached ;
'
If Christ be not
risen, then is our preaching vam,' &c. Yer. 14. In giving directions to
Timothy concerning his ministry, Paul says—' Remember that Jesus Christ,
of the seed of David, was raised from the dead according to my gosjMl.^
2 Tim. 2: 8. Uis estimate of the relative importance of the doctrine of tho
THE POWER OF CHRIST'S RESURRECTION. 253
resurrection of Christ, may be seen in a multitude of passages like the follow-
ing :
'
Now it was not written for his [Abraham's] sake alone, that it [faith]
was imputed to him [for righteousness,] but for us also, to whom it shall be
imputed, if we believe on him wlio raised up Jesus our Lordfrom the dead;
who was delivered for our offenses, and raised again for our justification.'*
Rom. 4: 23—25. '
If, while we Avere enemies, we were reconciled to God
by the death of his Son, much more, being reconciled, we shall be saved hy
his life.'' Rom 5: 10. '
Who is he that condemneth ? It is Christ that died,
yea rather, that is risen again,'' &c. Rom. 8: 34. ' If thou shalt confess
with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and shalt believe in thine heart that Grod
hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved.' Rom. 10: 9. &c. By
these specimens of Paul's preaching, we may discover the occasion of the
charge brought against him by the Athenians, that ' he seemed to be a setter
forth of strange gods, because he preached unto them Jesus, and the resur-
rection.'' Acts. 17: 18.
Paul evidently preached the resurrection of Christ, not as a mere historical
truth, or as a pledge of the future and distant resurrection of believers, but
as a ground of present justification—as the truth that is the food of saving
faith. His views of its present moral bearing, will be seen in the following
passages.
'
What shall we say then? Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound ?
God forbid. How shall we that are dead to sin, hve any longer therein ?
Know ye not, that so many of us as were baptized into Jesus Christ, were
baptized into his death ? Therefore we are buried with him by baptism into
death : that like as Christ was raised up from the dead by the glory of the
Father, even so we also, should walk in newness of life ;—for if we have
been planted together in the likeness of his death, we shall he also in the
likeness of his resurrection.'' Rom. 6: 1—5. It is necessary to understand
the nature of the baptism of which the apostle here speaks, in order to per-
ceive the force of his argument. The following texts determine the nature
of Christian baptism :
—' As the body is one, and hath many members, and
all the members of that one body, being many, are one body : so also is Christ
—for hy one spirit are we all baptized into one hody.^ 1 Cor. 12: 12, 13.
' As many of you as have been baptized into Christ, Itave put on Christ.^
Gal. 3: 27. By the baptism of the Holy Ghost, believers become one ivith
Christ : the reasoning of the apostle then proceeds thus. '
How can they,
who have become one with Christ, continue in sin ? His death to sin has
become theirs, and they are united with him in his resurrection. The same
power of the Father which raised him from the dead, secures them from sin.'
' For,' says he, (Rom. 8: 11, 12,) '
if the spirit of him that raised up Jesus
from the dead, dwell in you, he that raised up Christ from the dead shall
also quicken your mortal bodies, by his spirit that dwelleth in you : therefore
brethren, we are debtors not to the flesh, to hve after the flesh,' &c. In
other words—if Christ is in us, his resurrection is in us; we are '
quickened
together with him,' and are no more in bondage to a carnal nature. Again,
Paul prays, (Eph. 1: 19, 20,) that the saints might know ' what is the exceed-
ing greatness of Us power to us-ward wlw believe^ according to the working
i254 THE POWER OF CHRIST'S RESURRECTION.
-of his mighty power, ivldcli lie lorought in Christ tvJten he raised Mm front
the dead.'' In thus preaching the resurrection of Christ, as a power operating
in his whole body, and at once redeeming all the members of that body from
the bondage of the flesh, the apostle very properly represents it in the 15th
chapter of 1 Corinthians, as the very keystone of the gospel '
If Chiist be
not raised, your faith is vain, ye are yet in your sins.'' Ver. 17. ' Jesus,
AND THE RESURRECTION,' is no morc nor less, than 'Jesus, and salvation
FROM SIN.' Subvert the doctrine of the resurrection, and you annihilate the
gospel ; for the author of the gospel, Avas '
called JESUS, because he should
^ave his i^eople from their sins.' Mat. 1: 21. ' He was manifested, that he
might take away our sins.' 1 John, 3: 5. Without the doctrine of the resur-
rection, we may indeed proclaim that Christ died for our offenses ; but what
avails his death, if the sinner must still cry, '
wretched man that I am
who shall deliver me from the body of his death V—and such must be his cry,
if Christ was not '
raised again for his justification.' Let the slave of sin
appropriate to hinself, as he may, the benefits of the death of Christ, if he
cannot make the resurrection of Christ his own, he must still remain in ' the
horrible pit and miry clay.' In order to save a man, who has sunk in the
filth and darkness of a ' horrible pit,' two things are necessary : first, the man
'who undertakes to save him, must descend into the pit ; second, he must as-
cend with him that was lost. The annunciation of the descent of a Savior,
would furnish but poor consolation to the sufferer in this case, if his faith could
not fasten at once upon the hope of his ascent. Even so, to preach the death
of Christ, without commending his resurrection to the faith of sinners, is little
better than to mock their misery. In order to redeem men from the curse
and power of sin, Christ must first descejid into fellowship with them, and then
* ascend above principalities and powers ;' in other vrords, he must die and
rise again. This he has done, according to Paul's gospel : —' When he ascen-
ded up on high, he led captivity captive, and gave gifts unto men. (Now
that he ascended, what is it but that he also descended first into the lower
parts of the earth ' He that descended is the same also that ascended up
far above all heavens,' &c.) Eph. 4: 8—10. Hence, Paul could say to one
who dwells '
in the lower parts of the earth'—who cries from the bottom of
the pit, '
wretched man that I am ! who shall deliver me from the body
of this death ?' —' Say not in thine heart, who shall ascend into heaven ? (that
is, to bring Christ down from above,) or who shall descend into the deep ?
(that is, to bring up Christ again from the dead.) The word is nigh thee,
even in thy heart, and in thy mouth ; that is, the word of faith, which Ave
preach, (viz. '
Jesus and the resurrection ;') that if thou shalt confess with
thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and believe in thine heart that Crod hath raised
him from the dead, thou shalt be saved.' Rom. 10: 6—9. Confessing Christ
within you, you testify your apprehension of his descent into the deep, i. e.
his death ; behoving in your heart that God hath raised him from the dead,
your faith receives his resurrection in yourself, and you find yourself lifted
out of the dark abyss of sin and death, and sitting with him in heavenly
places.
The consequences of this doctrine are so startling, that Paul seems to have
THE POWER OP Christ's resurrection. 255
anticipated the charge of insanity—2 Cor. 5: 13—17. 'Whether we be
beside ourselves^ it is to God ; or whether we be sober, it is for your cause.
For the love of Christ constraineth us ; because we thus judge, that if one
died for all, then all died: (see the original :) and that he died for all, that
they which live should not henceforth hve unto themselves, but unto him which
died for them, and rose again, [Believers are ' married to him that was
raised from the dead ;' (see Rom. 7:4;) ' are members of his flesh and of
his bones ;' (see Eph. 5: 30.) The wife lives not to herself, but follows the
estate of her husband. If her husband has past death, and stands in the
resurrection, she looks upon death as behind her, and herself as raised from
the dead. That we do not pervert the meaning of the apostle, will be seen
by the inferences which he immediately draws from the foregoing statement.]
Wherefore henceforth know we no man after the flesh : [inasmuch as we are
not in the flesh, but with Christ in the resurrection ; and inasmuch as the
death and resurrection of Christ have given to all men the same exaltation
looking at the truth as it is in Jesus, we see all have past death, and are risen
with him :]
yea though we have known Christ after the flesh, yet now hence-
forth know we him no more. [Christ in the resii7'rection is our salvation and
the subject of our gospel.] Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he is a 7iew
creature; old things are passed away ; behold, all things are become new.'
[He has passed from a carnal state into the resurrection—from this world
into the heavenly world ; his state and relations are as fully changed, as the
idea of a translation from earth to heaven demands.]
One of the most obvious inferences from these truths, is, that believers
by fellowship with Christ in his resurrection, are released from the beggarly
elements and carnal ordinances of that worldly sanctuary which they have
left. As ' he that is dead is freed from sin,' so he that is freed from sin is
freed from the law ; for '
the law is not made for a righteous man.' The
law, with its '
shadows of good things to come,' cannot carry its claims be-
yond death. If Christ died for all, he made an end of the law and its
shadows for all. Such was the judgment of Paul :
' Ye are complete in him;
'
—buried with him in baptism, wherein also t/e are risen with him, through
the faith of the operation of God, who hath raised him from the dead : aiid
you, being dead in your sins, and the uncircumcision of your flesh, hath he
quickened together with him, having forgiven you all trespasses : blotting
out the hand-writing of ordinances that was against us, which was contrary
to us, and took it out of the way, nailing it to his cross, &c. Let no man
therefore judge you in meat or in drink, or in respect of an holy day, or of
the new moon, or of the sabbath day, &c. If ye be dead with Christ front)
the rudiments of the world, ivhy, as though living in the tuorld, are ye sub-
ject to ordinances f Col. 2: 10—20. Believers, passing into the resurrec-
tion, not by literal death, but by faith, living not to themselves, but to him
that died for them and rose again, look back to his cross as the monument
of their transition from eai*th to heaven—see the ordinances of the worldly
sanctuary nailed to it, as trophies of his triumph—and find themselves with
him in the freedom befitting a heavenly state.
^ the resurrection of Christ released men from sin, which is the sting of
y
256 OUTLIJTE OP ALL EXPERIENCE.
death ; and from the law, which is the strength of sin, it manifestly destroy-
ed, in respect to believers, the dominion of him that hath the power of death.
Their life was '
hid with Christ in God.' They had 'everlasting life.' That
change which was called death by the servants of sin, was to them the con-
summation of their resurrection. These remarks cover the transition period,
from the resurrection of Christ, till his second coming. During that period,
the promise of Christ 'He that helieveth on me shall never die"*—was sub-
stantially, though not literally fulfilled. The saints of that age, though they
were married to Christ in the resurrection, were yet so far within the terri-
tories of him that hath the power of death, that they did not escape the
form^ though they were saved from the sting of dying. Paul, standing in
the front rank of the host, testified that he had not yet attairied the resur-
rection of the dead ;
(Phil. 3: 12 ;) and he severely condemned some who
said that the resurrection was past already ; (2 Tim. 2: 18 ;) yet he was
striving to '
apprehend that for which he was apprehended of Christ,' ' and
looking for the Lord Jesus Christ' from heaven, to change his vile body.
Phil. 3: 12—21. He also assured the churches, by the word of the Lord,
that the time would come, and that speedily, when iha power o^ death should
be abolished, and mortality be swallowed up of life. 1 Cor. 15: 51, &c.
Death was the last enemy that should be overcome. During forty years,
the power that raised Christ from the dead was revealed in believers, redeem-
ing them from sin and the law, sustaining them in the fellowship of Christ's
sufferings, advancing them from one victory to another, till at the end of the
Jewish dispensation death was wholly destroyed, and the bride of Christ was
changed into the likeness of his glorious body. We leave it to the leisure
of others to calculate what is the hope of the calling of those who believe on
Christ eighteen hundred years after his perfect victory over death—thanking
' the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, that according to his abun-
dant mercy he hath begotten us unto a lively hope, by the resurrection of
Jesus Christ from the dead.'
§ 86. AN OUTLINE OF ALL EXPERIENCE.
The ultimate causes of all good and evil, are the spirit of love, and the
spirit of selfishness—God and the devil. Human life is placed under the poAver
of these spirits, and in all stages of its experience is either subject wholly to
one or to the other of them, or is in the conflict between them.
As man is composed of body and soul, his life is of a twofold quality, an-
imal and spiritual. We call his animal life, the flesh or the outer man ; and
his spiritual fife, the spirit or the inner man. The flesh is the natural soil of
selfishness, and is therefore the vantage-ground of the devil. The spirit is
susceptible of divine influences, and when awakened, appreciates the law of
love : it is therefore the vantage-groimd of God.
OUTLINE OP ALL EXPERIENCE. 257
The flesh and the spirit, though they are only the instruments of the ulti-
mate causes of good and evil, are the immediate actors and combatants in
all human experience ; and the several states of man may be referred to
them, as the representatives of God and the devil. We may say, therefore,
that human life, in all stages of its experience, is either under the entire
dominion of the flesh, or of the spirit, or in the conflict between them.
This is equivalent to what we said in the first paragraph.
In the 7th and 8th chapters of Romans, four distinct, successive states
of human life, in its progress from evil to good, are brought to view, namely
1. The natural state, in which the flesh reigns undisturbed. This was
Paul's condition when he was ' alive without the law.' (7: 9.)
2. The legal state, in which the flesh still reigns, but is engaged in con-
flict with the spirit, which has begun to delight in the law of God. This
state is described in the confession, commencing at
—' I am carnal,' &c.
(7: 7—25.)
3. The justijled state ; in w^hich the spirit, by marriage with Christ, has
prevailed over the flesh, and commenced its reign, but is yet in the mortal
body, and thus still in conflict with the flesh. This is described in the
greater part of the 8th chapter, as the then present state of Paul and the
regenerate part of the primitive church.
4. The glorified state ; in which the spirit has completed its victory over
the flesh by the resurrection of the body, and reigns undisturbed. This
state is spoken of as the hope of the saints, in the 8th chapter, from the
17th to the 25th verses.
These four states may be presented to view under other terms, thus :
1. The flesh's rest; 2, The flesh's Contested reign over the spirit; 3,
The spirit's contested reign over the flesh ; 4, The spirit's rest. Or,
1. The carnal ; 2, The legal-carnal ; 3, The mortal-spiritual ; 4, The
spiritual.
If we divide experience in the usual mor^ generic way, into two states, the
regenerate and the unregenerate, the first two of our subdivisions (viz., the
carnal and the legal-carnal) belong to the unregenerate state ; and the last
two (viz., the mortal-spiritual and the spiritual) to the regenerate.
The carnal comprises all men in their natural state, such as infants, men
without revelation, &c.
The legal-carnal comprises all law-bound, sinning religionists, such as were
the Jewish saints under the law, the disciples while Christ was in the flesh,
the novices of the primitive church, and the pious of the past and present
' Christian' churches.
The mortal-spiritual comprises all that are without sin in this world, such
as was Christ in the days of his flesh, and the apostles and primitive believers
after the gospel was opened to them.
The spiritual comprises those who have conquered death and attained the
glorified body, as Christ did at his resurrection, and as the primitive saints
did at the Second Coming.
In the present state of things, we are concerned with the two intermediate
conflict-states, more immediately than with the rest-states, at the two extremes.
o2t
S5S OUtLlJTE Off ALL EXPERlEKCE.
Yet the life of all who are saved passes through the whole four. In the Ttfl
and 8th of Romans, Paul carries his own history through the first three, and
at the Second Coining he entered the fourth. Ilis history is doubtkss, in lis
general features, an outline of the history of all the redeemed. .
And the experience of hidividuals, is a miniature of the history of the
human race*
From the advent of sin till the advent of the law, it may be said in general
terms that the flesh reigned undisturbed ; and the consec^uence was a deluge
of iniquity, and finalty a deluge of destruction.
From the advent of the law till the advent of Christy the flesh reigned
but the law and the partial divine influences accompanying it, stirred the
gpmts of men, and the war between the flesh and the spirit advanced, not
indeed to a victory of the spirit over the flesh, but to a preparation for that
victory.
From the advent of Christ till the present time, the human race, viewed
as a whole, comprising the inner and the outer sphere of spirits, has been in
the third or mortal-spiritual state, in which the spirit prevails, though the flesh
remains and continues to resist. In order to see this, we must not look on
the visible world, which is the fleshly portion of the human corporation, and
is full of the works of the devil, but on the soid of that corporation, which is
Christ and the saints of the first resurrection ; and we must consider that,
when Christ ascended up on high, he led captivity captive, and took the reins of
power '
in heaven and on eartN-—that the saints who joined him at the Second
Coming, have ' lived and reigned with him on the eartli^^-—and that the time
past of Christendom has been the time of his and their actual kingdom, though
they have only ' ruled with a rod of iron,' so far as this world is concerned.
In this comprehensive view, it may be seen that Christ ' made an end of sin"
in the human race, when he established himself at its centre ; for he changed
the general balance of powers, and gave the spirit, as a whole, the victory
over the flesh as a whole ; so that'j in a certain sense, it may be said, that the
whole race was born of God, when the Son of God entered into it, though
until ' all things are put under him,' the flesh remains and wars against the
spirit, and ' the adoption, to wit, the redemption of the body' is future.
We have passed, then, as a race, the first and second stages of experience,
and are drawing toward the conclusion of the third. The fourth stage is that
which is before us. The contested reign of the spirit is to end in the spirit's
rest. The inner man of the race, which for eighteen hundred years has
wrestled with the powers of sin in the outer man, and has prevailed, is to
assume its glorious body, and be released from the strife between flesh and
spirit.
When we say that the life of all men passes through the four stages which
Lave been described, it must be observed that Christ is excepted. He was
without sin, and of course, he entered into the last two stages only, viz., the
Xnortal'Spiritual and the spiritual, in which the spirit prevails over the flesh.
Accordingly, he did not join himself to humanity till the first two stages, viz.,
the carnal and legal-carnal, were past, or at least so far past that all was in
readiness for him to fight the decisive battle with the flesh, and commence the
THE WAY INTO THE HOLIEST, 259
victory of tlie spirit. And on this ground, we may be sure tliat what we havo
said concerning the victory of the spirit over the flesh in the race, as a whole,
during the last eighteen hundred years, is true ; for the fact that Christ did
not come in the flesh till the natural and the legal states were past, indicates
(as also docs right reason) that he, being holy, could not be spiritually iden-
tified with man while the flesh prevailed, and of course, that since he has
become spiritually identified with man, the spirit has prevailed. He did not
join humanity in its subjection to sin, but, at his entrance, made an end of
sin, and took part with humanity only in the conflicts of its mortal-spiritual
state, which conflicts are consistent mth perfect holiness.
This observation of the point in experience where Christ entered into the
race as a whole, will throw light on the question as to the point w^here he joins
himself to individuals. If he could not incarnate himself in the race till he
could make an end of its shi3, for the same reason he cannot enter into indi-
viduals, till they have passed the natural and legal stages of experience, and
are ready for the victory of the spirit over the flesh. No man, remaining a
sinner, can truly testify that he is in spiritual partnership with Christ. ' He
that sinneth hath not seen him, neither known him.'
The four stages of experience may be described with reference to the in-
visible powers to whose administration they respectively belong, thus
1. The natural state is under the deviVs administration.
2. The legal state is under the administration o^ angels. (See Acts 7: 53,
Gal. 3: 19, Heb. 2: 2.)
3. The mortal-spiritual state is under the administration of the Son,
4. The spiritual or glorified state is under the administration of the Father
(See 1 Cor. 15; 24—28.)
§ 37. THE WAY INTO THE HOLIEST,
" Having therefore, brethren, boldness to enter into the holiest by the blood
of Jesus, by a new and Hving way which he hath consecrated for us through
the veil, that is to say, his flesh ; and having an high priest over the house of
God ; let us draw near with a true heart, in full assurance of faith, having our
hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience, and our bodies washed with pure
water." Heb. 10: 19—22.
O^E of the clearest marks of the apostasy of Christendom from primitive
Christianity, is the ignorance which prevails in relation to the enlargement
of spiritual privileges which was introduced by the new covenant dispensa-
tion. The popular teachers of rehgion abound in general glorifications of
Christ and the blessings which he brought to the world ; but when we inquire
into the particulars, for which they extol his dispensation, we find that they
have no idea that Christianity gives men nearer access to God than Judaism
did. In their minds spiritual privileges have stood on the same general level
in all ages of the world. They think that man had the same opportunities
260 THE WAY INTO THE HOLIEST.
of approaching God before Christ came, as afterward ; that regeneration
was a privilege of Judaism as well as of Christianity, and that men can no
more be saved from sin under Christianity than they could under Judaism.
Hence when the doctrine of holiness is presented to them, they see no im-
propriety in citing against it from the Old Testament such passages as these :
'
There 'is no man that hveth and sinneth not ;' ' There is not a just man
upon earth, that doeth good and sinneth not ;'
as though all that was true in
Solomon's time, of human sinfulness and of the meagerness of God's pro-
vision for curing it, must be true now, after the Son of God has come and
estabhshed his kingdom of grace in the world.
The popular commentators have indeed found it impossible to handle such
passages as that from which the verses at the head of this article are taken,
(viz. Heb. 8, 9 and 10,) without making some flourish of words about the
new privileges opened by the advent of Christ. But when their comments
are scanned down, they amount to nothing more than an admission that since
Christ came men may understand more fully liow they have access to God
than they could before, and that the privilege of such access is extended to
a greater number. Their idea is that the sacrifice of Christ was as effectual
before it w^as offered as afterward ; and that the only advantage we have over
the Old Testament saints is that w^e may Jmoio a little more of the philosophy
of salvation than they could,—not that any new way of access to God is
opened, or any new salvation made accessible.
Adam Clarke remarks on Matthev,r 27: 51, as follows :
" The veil of the temple was rent. That i?, the veil which separated the holy
"place where the priests ministered, from the holy of holies, into which the high
priest only entered, and that once a year, to make a general expiation for the
sins of the people. This rending of the veil was emblematical, and pointed out
that the separation between Jews and Gentiles was now abolished, and that the
privilege of the high priest was now communicated to all mankind : all might
henceforth have access to the throne of grace, through the one great atonement
and mediator, the Lord Jesus. See this beautifully illustrated in Heb. 10: 19-22.'"'
This is certainly a curious specimen, but probably a fair one, of the wisdom
of our modern scribes. We learn from it that the veil between the first tab-
ernacle and the holy of holies, merely represented the separation between the
Jews and the Gentiles ! —of course that the Jews had access to the holy of
hohes before Christ's death; and that the privileges of the Gentiles only were
enlarged by that sacrifice ! The Jews, according to this representation, had
the privilege of entering the inner sanctuary, not only side by side with the
great high priest of tlie Christian dispensation, but long before he entered it
Clarke, it will be observed, refers to Heb. 10: 19—22, as an illustration of
his interpretation of Matt. 27: 51. Of course he transfers his view of the
one text to the other. .The invitation to enter the holiest, in Heb. 10: 19,
&c., thus becomes an invitation to a privilege, not new to the Jews, but only
to the Gentiles. It is difficult, on this supposition, to see why that invitation
was addressed to the '
Hebrews.*
The truth is that there is not a word in the book of Hebrew^s on the sub-
ject of the separation between the Jews and Gentiles—no intimation that the
THE WAY INTO THE HOLIEST. 261
rending of the veil of the sanctuary was an emblem of the abohshment of that
separation. On the contrary, the ninth chapter of that book very clearly
teaches that the holy of holies was an emblem of the 'immediate presence of
God, into which neither Jew nor Gentile had been admitted, until Christ
came and made reconciUation ; and of course that the rending of the veil at
the death of Christ, was an emblem of the abolishment of the separation, not
between the Jews and Gentiles, but between God and man. After descri-
bing the arrangements of the firstt abernacle and the holy of holies, Paul says :
" Now when these things were thus ordained, the priests went always into the
first tabernacle, accomplishing the service of God. But into the second went
the high priest alone once every year, not without blood, which he oftered for
himself, and for the errors of the people : the Holy Ghost this signifying, That
the way into the holiest of all was not yet made manifest, while as the first taber-
nacle was yet standing : which was afigure for the time then present, in which
were offered both gifts and sacrifices^ that could not mak«i him that did the service
perfect, as pertaining to the conscience ; which stood only in meats and drinks,
and divers washings and carnal ordinances, imposed on them until the time of
reformation. But Christ being corrie'^ a:P high priest of good things to come, by
a greater and more perfect tabernacl^,, not made with hands, that is to say, not
of this building, neither by the blood of goats and calves, but by his own blood,
he entered in once into the hol}'^ place, having obtained eternal redemption for
us." Heb. 9: 6—12.
This is certainly 'a vei*y'];^Mn announcement that the way into the holiest
•was not made manifest to^ any body—Jew or Gentile—before the coming of
Christ. He first tind alone entered within the veil of the Godhead, at the
end of the aioiiy' as the Jewish high priest entered the inner tabernacle at the
end of the j4^h\ Man had held intercourse with God before, only in that dis-
tant mamifer''whicli was symbolized by the service of the first tabernacle.
Christ led the way into that nearer communion with the divine nature which
was symbolized by the approach to the holy of holies.
]5^t;h.ow docs the fact that Christ has entered the sanctuary authorise the
apostle, to invite others to enter ? How can we '
have boldness to enter the
holiest? In the Jewish service the high priest alone entered within the veil.
Thepeople stood without. How then can any but the great High Priest of
the Christian dispensation draw near to God in his unveiled glory ? We shall
find Mn answer to these questions by considering the force of the expression
>
—'fyif the blood of Jesus.'' We have boldness to enter the holiest ojiJaj '
by
the blood of Jesus.' What is that blood, and how is it applied so as to give
belie- vers boldness to approach God ?
The reader will find a full discussion of the nature and application of the
' bli)odof Christ,' in a previous article on the New Covenant, pp. 1^—148.
In addition to what is there said, we may remark here, that if the blood of
Christ's visible body were the true '
blood of the covenant,' the blood of the
sac rifices under the law, and the wine of the eucharist, would be types of a
su.bstance on the same level with themselves,—type and antitype would both
be material and visible ; which would be wholly incongruous vv'ith the general
fi>ystem of typical representation. And then, if the blood of the covenant
Vere material, how could it be spinlded on the people interested in it, liv-
262 THE WAY INTO THE HOLIEST.
ing as they do through long tracts of time ? The blood of the typical offer-
ings was Hterally sprinkled on the congregation ; and for this purpose those
offerings ^yere repeated from year to year. But Christ suffered but once.
How is it possible that his material blood should be sprinkled on men at this
distance of time ? It would be incongruous to suppose that while the blood
was literal, the sprinkling is figurative or spiritual, i. e., is performed by
preaching or spiritual influence. In the type, the blood was literal and the
sprinkling was literal. So in the antitype, if the blood is literal the sprink-
ling ought to be literal ; or if the sprinkling is spiritual the blood must be
spiritual.
When we turn to the true theory, (viz. that the blood of Christ is the Ho-
ly Ghost,) all becomes plain and consistent. We can understand how our
great High Priest, when he entered the sanctuary, sprinkled the world with
his own blood. The day of Pentecost witnessed the glorious baptism. We
can understand how it can be said that behevers have come to the blood of
sprinlding that speaketh better things than the blood of Abel, (Ileb. 12:
24,) and how that blood can '
cleanse them from all sin' and ' make them
perfect.'
it will now be seen how we have '
boldness to enter into the holiest.' We
have come to an omnipresent and ever-pouring sprinkhng of the blood of Je-
sus ; and by drinking in that blood, and realizing its purging power, we may
be made free from sin, and so fitted for the presence of God. The apostle
invites behevers to come, not in the filth of sin, but 'having tJieir hearts
sprinkled from an evil conscience.'' By drinking the blood of Christ, we
become one with him, members of his body ; self dies, and Christ is put on ;
so that although none but the High Priest is permitted to go within the veil,
we may enter boldly, because ive are identified with the High ^Priest, His
life has admittance to the holy of holies ; and his life is ours.
In this discussion we have brought to view the ground on whicli. ti^ie Per-
fectionism stands, and the issue between that system and the rehgfon ot^the
/estabhshed churches. The popular theologians teach, expressly or bj impli-
cation, that the atonement opened no way into holiness and the preso^nce ot
God which was unknown before ; and of course that the rehgious expe^i^^c
which is appropriate to the Christian dispensation, is not essentially difl^^i'ent
from that which was enjoyed under the Jewish economy. Their- -do<?trine
makes regeneration the privilege, and sin the accompanying draw-feck,
equally of both dispensations. On the other hand, we teach that the jitone-
ment brought upon the world a baptism of sin-abolishing blood, and rent the
veil which had previously separated between God and man; so that; an !
ex-
perience of salvation from sin, and communion with the divine nature, is now
attainable, as much higher than any enjoyed under the Jewish dispensation
as the holy of holies was more sacred than the enclosure from which it was
veiled. Our doctrine restricts the privilege of regeneration to the turtles
after the atonement, and to the faith ot those who enter the inner sanctuary;
and limits sinful rehgion to the service of the outer tabernacle. These- tvre
the theses on the one side and the other, which are about to be tried before
heaven and earth.
^ 38. CHRISTIAN FAITH.
'
He that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a re*
Vrarder of them that diligently seek him.' Every form of faith, without
which it is impossible to please God, necessarily contains these two elements,
viz : first, a belief of the existence of God ; second, a belief of his benev-
olence, and of course an expectation of a reward in seeking him. The man
who has never sought after God, may exercise faith, thus elementarily de-
scribed ; and indeed, in the order of nature, such faith must precede all
attempts to secure the favor of God. I cannot seek access to a man, of whose
existence I am ignorantj and I shall not seek favors from one, unless I be-
lieve he has the power, and will, to do me good. Between this starting point
in the race of faith, and the goal which they have reached, to w4iom God
has become all in all, we may discover and describe endless varieties and
degrees of confidence in God. If I believe to day in the existence of a God
whose locality is above the firmament, and to-morrow discover that he is an
omnipresent God, I have advanced a step in the course of faith. Again ; if
I believe to-day only the general proposition, that the omnipresent God is a
rewarder of them that diligently seek him, and tomorrow discover that he
actually answers my prayers, I have advanced another step. If I sincerely
and diligently seek after God my faith will increase as my knowledge of him
increases. Discovering his care over me, I trust his providence for temporal
blessings—perceiving the power of his spirit, and the holiness of his charac*
ter, I trust him to keep me from the ways of wicked men. Finding that in
his presQuce is fulness of joy, I trust his love will one day deliver me from
the bondage and darkness of a sinful nature, and fit me for full and endless
fellowship with himself. As God reveals his good will and power to me, my
faith advances from one blessing to another, till that righteousness which alone
can qualify me for the enjoyment of his glorious presence, becomes the object
of my heart's desire ; and trusting in him, I see a cloudless prospect of eter*
nal deliverance from sin in a future w^orld.
Thus far faith advanced under'the Jewish dispensation. Thus far, before
Christ came, God had revealed himself as the rewarder of them that dili*
gently seek him. Abraham received not the promise of the new covenant^
but saw it afar off, and rejoiced ; and all who followed in his footsteps before
the advent of Christ, though they '
obtained a good report through faith,
received not the promise,' but stood with him rejoicing in the hope of eter*
nal righteousness. The effect of faith in this stage of its advancement,
upon the character and conduct, may easily be seen. As faith is necessarily
limited by the revelation which God makes of himself, if Abraham diligently
Bought after God—if his faith kept pace with his discoveries of the good will
of God,—he w^as ' perfect' in his day : not perfect, as being conformed to
the image of God, but perfect as being conformed to his imperfect discoveries
of God. The carnal mind—the will of the flesh—is enmity against God.
Brutes have the carnal mind, and yet they are not sinners. Why? Because
264 CHRISTIAN FAITH.
they have no knowledge of God. They are perfect m their place, not as
bemg conformed to the image of God, but as fulfilling the end of their being.
On the same principle, Abraham might be perfect in his place, without that
knowledge of God Avhich displaces the carnal mind. It is manifest, however,
that his perfection can be no standard by which the perfection of those to
whom God has farther revealed himself, shall be measured. The legitimate
effect of perfect faith in the imperfect revelations which God made to man
during the Jewish dispensation, was to stimulate believers to the performance
of the works of the law. In observing the statutes and ordinances of the
law, they did the work of servants, because, in so doing, they trusted God
would ultimately make them his sons. If it be true, as many seem to sup-
pose, that God has made no greater revelation of himself to the world than
was given to Abraham and the Jewish saints, we may call ourselves believ-
ers, w4iile we rest contented to stand with them as servants under the law^,
in liope, not in possession of righteousness. But if Jesus Christ has revealed
the Father, and this revelation is w^orthy to be called the glorious gospel,
before we call ourselves Christian believers, w-e must inquire. What is the
gospel ?—and whether our faith corresponds to the tidings it brings.
The following passages from the Avord of God explicitly state the object for
which Jesus Christ came into the world :
'
Thou shalt call his name Jesus, for
he shall save his jjeople fr0771 their sins.^ Matt. 1: 21. '
He w^as manifested
to take aumy our sins,^ 1 John 3: 5. '
For this purpose was the Son of God
manifested, that he might destroy the tcorJcs of the devil.'' 1 John 3: 8. If
this is the gospel, sinners are not Christian behevers ; for the faith which
corresponds to this revelation of the good-will of God, must.be inconsistent
with the commission of sin. If God sent his Son into the world for the pur-
pose of saving his people from their sins, they who trust him are saved from
their sins, or God is defeated in his purpose.
What then is the nature of Christian faith ? How shall a man who be-
lieves that God is, and is a rew^arder of them that dihgently seek him, become
a behever of that gospel which brings salvation from sin ? We will endeavor
to trace the transition. «
Suppose the man stands in the situation of a Jewish believer, a smner,
under the law, but rejoicing in the hope of righteousness and fellowship with
God in a future w^orld. He hears that God sent his Son into the world to
save all who trust in him, from their sins. This is glad tidings to him, and
lie wilUngly believes it, because it brings that salvation to his door which he
had hitherto supposed afar off. Difficulties and objections are easily removed
from the mind of one wdio hungers and thirsts after righteousness. Suppose
then his mind has settled into a conviction that the glad tidings he has heard
are true. Though -he is not in possession of the salvation of which he has
heard, he has advanced in faith a step beyond the state of a Jewish behever.
He has discovered that the feast which he before looked for at the end of a
life of labor, is ready for him now. He withdraws his thoughts from that
prospect beyond the grave, w^hich had cheered him, ceases from his labor,
and sets himself to find his Father's table.
The question before him now is How am I to be saved from sm ? The
CHRISTIAN FAITH. 265
gospel aniswers hy the 'power of G-od. * But can this be done consistently
with my free agency V Ans. If God could dwell in Jesus Christ, control-
ling all his actions, yet leaving him a free agent, he can do the same in any
other human being, to whom he can gain access. You know by experience,
that he can in some measure, at least, manage your spirit, and dispose you
to righteousness, without interfering with your free agency—why cannot his
control over you be perfected consistently with your freedom ? •
Moreover
you expect to be kept by his power in eternal righteousness after death, and
yet to be free—Why should you doubt his power to begin this work before
death ? Suppose the inquirer to be convinced that God can dwell in him as
he did in Christ, and save him from sin, leaving him free—a second step is
taken towards the possession of a perfect salvation.
The next question is
—' How shaU I become the subject of that power of
God which brings salvation ? The gospel answers, hy faith in his Son.—
' What is faith in the Son of God ?' Ans. It is a conviction, accompanied
with a confession that Christ is in you, a whole Savior. Unbelief replies
* Christ is not in me.'
Here is the critical spot where the contest between the devil and the Son
of God is to be decided ; and here we resort to the record which God has giv-
en of his Son. Let it be remembered that the word of God must stand, if it
contradicts your previous conceptions and feelings. If it declares that Christ
is in you, your ignorance and unbelief of the fact cannot prove this declara-
tion false. On the contrary it may be proved that your ignorance and un-
behef have crucified the Son of God in you, and that he only waits for the
permission of your faith, to burst the tomb of your heart and manifest his
presence. We will not speculate upon the question of the possibility of
Christ's presence in those who are ignorant of the fact. You cannot dive deep
enough into spiritual philosophy to prove it impossible, and I cannot dive
deep enough to show you how it is true; but we can both read the plain state-
ments of the word of God. John says of Christ—the Word of God ' In
him was life, and the life was the light of men ; and the light shineth in
darkness^ and the darkness comprrehendeth it not. That was the true light
which lighteth every man that cometh into the world. He was in the world,
and the world was made by him, and the world knew him not.^ John 1: 4
10. From this passage it appears that the life of the Word of God, hght-
eth every human being. It will not be pretended that the gospel—the ex-
ternal light of the word of God—^lighteth every man that cometh into the
world. What meaning then can be attached to the passage, unless we be-
lieve that the Son of God, in becoming incarnate, gave life to all flesh, 'came
a hght into the tvorld^ of darkened spirits, so that he is actually life and light
to those who know him not. '
The light shineth in darkness, and the dark-
ness comprehendeth it not.' Shall the darkness therefore deny that the light
shines ? ' The world knew him not.' Shall the world therefore deny that
he has come into the world. You have hitherto been ignorant of the fact
that Christ is life and light in you—shall you therefore deny the fact, in con-
tradiction of the testimony of God ?
The following passage more fully unfolds the meaniBg of those we have al-
00
^0 . CnElSTIAN FAITtl.
ready examined. * Tliere are three that bear witness in earth, the spirit^
and the water, and the blood : and these three agree in one. If we receive
the witness of men, the witness of God is greater : for this is the witness of
God which he hath testified of his Son. He that believeth on the Son of
God hath the witness in himself : he that believeth not God, hath made him
a liar ; because he beheveth not the record that God gave of his Son. And
this is the record, that Gtodhatli given to us eternal life: and this life is in
his Son.' 1 Jno. 5: 8—11. There are three agents, or elements of salvation
in the spiritual' worlds corresponding to spirit, (or air,) water, and blood, in
the natural world. Water is that which cleanses the outside, (see John 15:
8, Eph. 5: 26,) to which the external word corresponds. '
Blood is the life'
'
—the vital element of the inward man. So the blood of Jesus Christ is the
life of the soul. The spirit or air is the medium in which, and by which the
blood and water have their action, and without which the blood would be use-
less. So the witnessing Spirit of God is that without which the blood and
water of Jesus Christ, i. e. his spiritual life and instructions, are of no avail.
* He that helieyeth hath the witness' of the Spirit. '
He that beheveth not^
hath the Uood, i. e. that Hfe which is hght shining in darkness, and perhaps
the water, i. e. the word : but these are of no avail without that faith which
admits the witness of the Spirit. The life of Christ is not comprehended, till
the Spirit bears witness* 'He that believeth not hath made God a liar ; be-
cause he hath not believed the record that God gave of his Son : and tliis is
the record, that Crodhath given to us eternal life; and this life is in his Son.'
The life then of the Son of God is actually and unconditionally given to ev^ry
man lefore believing—-else how can unbeHef in respect to this record make
God a har ? If God has given eternal life only to them that believe, unbe-
lievers can not be required to believe that God has given them eternal life, for
this is not true. Yet it is plainly declared that unbehevers make God a liar
in respect to * the record that God hath given to us eternal life*' These dec^
larations can in no way be reconciled with each other, unless we believe that
the ' eternal life,' i. e. the Son of God, (see 1 John 1: 2, 5: 20,) '
is the
light shining in darkness'—' that lighteth every man that cometh into the
worlds' Thus believing, the method of salvation by Jesus Christ is a plain
matter. 1. Every man, by the gift of God, has eternal life present in his
Bpirit, though he be ignorant of the fact. 2. God sends forth the word of his
gospel to apprize men of this fact. 3. He that believeth this word receives
the Holy Ghost, and is born of God. 1, The blood is given ; 2, the water;
3, the spirit. Thus God is the Savior of all men, specially of them that
believe.
Again—' As by the offense of one judgment came upon all men to condem-
nation ; even so by the righteousness of one, the free gift came upon all men
unto justification of life.* Eom. 5: 18. A comparison is here instituted be-
tween Adam and Christ, in which the operation of the righteousness of the
Second Adam is represented as reversing the work of the first. By the first
Adam all men become partakers of a fallen nature, which is nevertheless not
in itjelf sinful, inasmuch as Christ was made in the likeness of it, and was
yet without sin ; thus proving the poasibility of living in human nature with-
CHEKTMAN FAITH. 267
out sin, and thereby condemning sin in the flesh, ^
By on^ man sin entered
the world, and death by sin ; and so death passed upon all men, /or that all
have sinned.'* In consequence of Adam's sin, all men become partakers of a
nature not necessarily sinful, but uniformly prone to sin. Each man, hy his
own sin, secures to himself the appropriate curse of a sinful nature. By re»
versing this statement we ascertain the nature of the work of Christ. He is
the second Adam, the root of the race. By him all men are placed in com-
munication with a nature, not in itself righteous in th^m, but adapted to the
fulfilment of righteousness. Each man, by his own act, i. e. by faith, secure^
to himself the appropriate blessings of a righteous nature. The gospel an-
nounces to them who, by sin, are following the first Adani to death, that God
has given them through Christ a new nature, the appropriate fruits of which
are righteousness and peace. Unbelievers continue to follow the firet Adam.
Behevers '
put off the old man, and put on the new man'—* walk not after
the flesh but after the spirit'—are saved from their sins. As there are now
two Adams, so all men have two natures—the one carnal and the other spir-
itual ; and these are opposite one to the other. While the old man hves, the
new man is crucified. When the new man lives, the old man is crucified.
The old man lives by unbeHef—the new man by faith. By the gospel we are
made to know that God has repaired the ruins of the fall, and ' we are no
longer debtors to the flesh ;' '
Christ has come in the flesK'—not in a single
man, merely, but in the whole of human nature. While men believe not, he
is crucified in themselves. When they believe, he rises from the dead, and
reveals himself a conqueror, in thexnselves.
Again ;
'
the righteousness which is of faith speaketh on this wise, Say not
in thine heart. Who shall ascend into heaven ? (that is, to bring Christ down
from above ;) or, Who shall descend into the deep ? (that is, to bring up
Christ again from the dead.) But what saith it ? The word is nigh the^j
even in thy mouth, and in thy heart ; that is, the word of faith which wo
preach ;
[Paul preached Christ;] that if thou shalt confess with thy mouth
the Lord Jesus, and shalt believe in thy heart that God hath raised him from
the dead, thou shalt be saved.' Rom. 10: 6—9. This is a specimen of Paul's
method of preaching the gospel. To those who ask, ' What must we do to
be saved ?' he answers. Cease to look out of yourselves for the salvation you
seek—turn to the light of Christ within ; the Word of God is in your heart
when you so believe this that you are willing to con^ss it, you will be saved
from sin.
We will now take for granted that the inquirer is intellectually convinced
that according to the word of God, Qhrist is in him, and that he must believe
this, in order that he may receive salvation. Now he asks—' How shall I
get this faith ?' We answer by an illustration. Suppose a man has in his
hand a good note for a hundred dollars, which he supposes to bo nothing bet»
ter than waste paper. He is told that it is a genuine note. His thought??
run thus '
While I remain in unbehef, this note is worth notliing to me ; if
I could believe that it is genuine, I should be richer by a hundred dollars, in
feeling and fact, than I am nOw ; how shall I get this faith V Common sense
answers, By examining the note, and the character of the maker of it, Tho
268 CHRISTIAN FAITH.
Bible 13 tlie record of the will of God, bj which men are declared possessors
of eternal life. Common sense teaches any one who wishes to believe this, to
examine the record and character of him who gave it. If an intelligent and
careful examination of this kind does not produce faith, the reason must be
sought in the spirit of the inquirer. He stands at the gate of a kingdom,
into which no idols can be carried. He knows if he believes and confesses
that Christ is in him, he will be severed from every object of earthly affection.
Men do not readily believe tidings which cross their interests. '
How can ye
beheve, who receive honor one of another, and seek not that honor which
Cometh from God only.' Is it asked, What shall a man do, whose heart is
wedded to some earthly object, who yet desires to believe ? We answer,
Your case is hopeless ; unless by some means you shall be brought to abandon
your idol. You can never with the heart believe the word of God, while
your heart is otherwise engaged. While the God of this world bhnds your
mind, the glorious gospel can never shine into it. The man who is willing to
part with every thing for the knowledge of Christ, who sincerely hungers and
thirsts after righteousness, will easily believe the word which announces his
salvation. When an honest man gives an account of events, which even in-
volve no special interest, his hearers beheve him as a matter of course. No
effort to beheve is thought of. But how easily and eagerly do men believe,
when they hear good tidings touching a matter concerning which they have
been anxious ! If I am in a state of anxious suspense about the safety of a
friend, and a messenger brings the word, '
He is safe !'
the eager joy of faith
rushes through me like an electric shock—I have immediate peace in believ-
ing. So the gospel is no sooner heard than believed, by one who truly thirsts
for the water of life. When he hears the word of God, '
Christ is in you, a
conqueror over sin and death ! —all is safe !'
—he believes at once, and be-
lievmg, passes from death unto life.
If the inquirer declares himself willing to part with his idols, and yet can-
not believe, we must search through his spirit again for the reason of his un-
belief. Perhaps he is saying in his heart, ' I would believe, if I could feel
that Christ is m me, and I am saved :'
in other words, '
I will beheve the
testimony of my own feelings, but not the word of God.' This is wrong.
A right spirit says, ' Let God be true, and every man a liar—God says he has
given me his Son and eternal hfe ; my feelings contradict his record ; my
feelings are the liars—God is true ; I know and will testify that Christ is in
me a whole Savior, because God declares it, whether my feelings accord with
the testimony or not.' If you wish for peace and salvation by the witness of
the Spirit, before you beheve, you wish for the fruit before there is any root.
Righteousness, peace, and joy in the Holy Ghost, are the consequences of
faith ; the word of God, and that orly, is its foundation. The man who holds
the note for a hundred dollars, in unbelief, cannot expect to feel richer than
usual, till he believes the note to be genuine ; and he would be considered a
very foohsh man, if he should say in answer to arguments in favor of the gen-
uineness of the note—' I feel as poor as ever, therefore the note cannot be
good.' Christ says, ' Behold I stand at the door and knock ; if any man
bear my voice and open the door, I will come in to him, and sup with him,
CHRISTIAN FAITH. 269
and he with me.' Let the inquirer understand, that beljeving the word of
God opens the door for the admission of the living witness. It is wrong in
this situation to say, ' I would open the door if I could see him who stands on
the outside.' You cannot see through the door of unbelief. You hear the
Savior's voice—that is enough—beheve, open the door, and you shall see
him and sup with him. While you are asking for sight and supper, before
you open the door, Christ is suffering for your folly, knocking without.
If the inquirer is now convinced that he is not to look for peace before be-
lieving, but in beheving; nothing is wanting to complete his salvation, but
such a confidence in what his intellect perceives to be the truth of God, as will
produce a confession that Christ is in him, a Savior from all sin. He can
try his faith by such a question as this
—' Am I willing without further evi-
dence, relying solely on the testimony of God, to confess Christ a whole Sav-
ior ? Confession, or a willingness to confess Christ, is the accompaniment
rather than the consequence of faith. Intellectual belief becomes an active
principle, a belief of the heart, in the very act of confession. It is to no pur-
pose in this spot, to make experiments upon God, as many have attempted to
do, by undertaking to believe, while confession is withheld till the success of
faith is ascertained. A whole-hearted and everlasting surrender to the faith-
fulness of God alone, pan secure the fulfilment of his promises to faith. Such
a surrender can be made only by a confession, which leaves no way for re-
treat. Men are permitted to enter the kingdom only on condition of destroy-
ing the bridge behind them.
As God is true, the man who thus confesses Christ, shall be confessed of
him, before the Father. His peace shall be like a river, and his righteous-
ness as the waves of the sea. By the witness of the Spirit, he shall know
that he is a child of God, and know that ' whosoever is born of God doth
not commit sin : for his seed remaineth in him; and he cannot sin, because
he is born of God.'
We have endeavored to describe Christian faith, the act by which man
submits himself to the righteousness of God. If it is said
—' Faith is the root
of righteousness, and you have represented faith as man's act, so that after
all, the agency of man isfihe source of salvation'—we reply. Faith is the
gift of God; for '
faith cometh by hearing, and hearing hy the word of €rod.^
God is the giver of the gospel, and the gospel is the food of faith ; so that
salvation is wholly of grace. The blood of Jesus Christ, which is eternal life,
is the gift of God. The water of the word, which apprises men of their
possession of eternal Hfe, is the gift of God. The Spirit which bears wit-
ness in believers, and saves them from sin, is the gift of God. To him bo
glory for ever.
§ 39. SETTLEMENT WITH THE PAST.
When a person who has served God devotedly under the law, and has
iiad much happy and notable experience in the service, conies to the knowl-
edge of the new covenant and sees before him a second conversion, without
which, he is conscious, he cannot claim the name and inheritance of the sons
of God, the startling question arises, '
How shall I dispose of my past expe-
rience ? Was it a delusion ? That cannot be. But it Avas not saving experi-
ence. AYhat then was its character and value ?' If he loves the things
which are before more than those which are behind, he resolutely surmounts
these questions, even if he cannot satisfactorily answer them ; and cheerfully
embraces salvation from sin, even at the expense of depreciating his old eX'
perience. But if the spiritual treasures which he has acquired are so great
that he cannot turn his heart away from them to the new hope which he has
found, he is in danger of compromising his conscience and love of truth, by
contenting himself with some counterfeit form of holiness, which can be
made a supplement to his former conversion, instead of supplanting it. In
this way, undoubtedly, the various forms of semi-Perfectionism which are
abroad, have originated.
The same danger and difficulty stands in the way, to arrest the advent of
new dispensations, as well as the advance of individuals. Christianity, pre-
senting itself, not as a continuation and improvement of Judaism, but as a
radical revolution—a new dispensation, to which all that had gone before
was but preliminary—^had a long and hard contest with the attachment of its
followers, as well as its enemies, to the religion of their ancestors. It was
asked then, as it is asked now, when Christianity is set on high above Juda^
ism, where it belongs—' How do you dispose of the patriarchs and prophets ?
Had they no true experience ? Were they not children of God V ' Art thou
greater (said the Jews to Christ) than our father Abraham ? . . . Whom
makest thou thyself?' Reverence for the experience and ways of the an-
cient saints, undoubtedly long held back even thei^postles from the discovery
and announcement of the supplanting greatness of the new dispensation. It
was a bold stand that Paul took, when he said of the whole series of Old
Testament worthies—' These all having obtained a good report through faith,
received not the promise, God having provided some better thing for us,
that they without us should not be made perfect.'
We believe that now, after the ages of a second legal dispensation, (da-
ting from the transfer of God's discipline from the Jews to the Gentiles,)
the new covenant is again coming to light. The gospel of salvation from sin
is not absolutely new. It was given to the world and its power was known
in the apostohc age ; and a record of it was left in the books of the New
Testament. • But relatively/ to the generations that have lived since the fall
from grace to legality, (which may safely be dated from the destruction of
Jerusalem,) it is a new gospel. The changes which it proposes to Christen-
dom are as revolutionizing and startling, as those which primitive Christian-
SETTLEMElfT WITH THE PAST. 271*
ifey proposed to the Jews. If any think that it is presumptuous and irreyer*
ent toward the great and good of past ages to admit such a behef as this, our
reply is '
We beheve this, not because we reverence the ancients less, but
because we reverence God more. If our eye were on man, whose tendency
is downward toward weakness and corruption, we should be disposed to think
the past greater than the present and future. But with our eye on God,
whose course is onward from glory to greater glory, it is but modesty to
think the present and future greater than the past.
But what shall we do with the experience of the multitude of saints whose
memory the sects delight to honor ? All Christendom has abounded with
wonderful conversions, and bright manifestations of spiritual piety. Some
are ready to overwhelm us with persuasions that such men as Brainerd, Ed-
wards, Payson , and Taylor, were incarnations of true Christianity. Others
appeal still more confidently to a different class of models, such as Madame
Guion, Hester Ann Rogers, and Wm. Law. Several whole sects have held
some form of the doctrine of holiness, and have, more or less extensively, ex-
perienced and professed '
sanctification.' Is all this to be accounted as
nothing ? Were not these illustrious men and women born of God ? Has
there been no knowledge of the true gospel of holiness among the Wesleyans
and Moravians and Quakers and Shakers ? These are questions which it
behooves us to consider, with modesty and charity on the one hand, and with
independence and jealousy for the truth of the gospel on the other.
1. As to the ordinary class of pietists in the carnal churches, we shall say
nothing. To those who sincerely believe that ' whosoever sinneth hath not
seen Christ, neither known him,' (and to such believers we at present address
ourselves,) it need not be proved that confessors and professors of sin are not .
Christians, however interesting may be their spiritual history.
^
2. Of the more distinguished spiritualists of the churches, David Brainerd
may be taken as a fair specimen. The picture which his biography gives of
his general experience is in essence a transcript of the seventh chapter of
Romans. The Religious Encyclopedia says he had '
a most humbling and
constant sense of his own iniquity, which was a greater burden to him than
all his afflictions, great brokenness of heart before God for the coldness of his
love and the imperfection of his Christian virtues.' It is evident that he was,
through life, under conviction^ panting after freedom from sin, but never
reaching it. Interesting and praiseworthy as such experience was in the dim
light of Brainerd's time, and valuable as it was as a preliminary to that high-
er spiritual education which, we trust, awaited him within the veil, it certainly
was not Christian experience. With him may be classed Edwards, Payson^
and nearly all of those who have obtained the highest distinction for piety in i/
the churches.
3. James Brainerd Taylor's experience was of a higher grade. He came
apparently to the very borders of the gospel, where he saiv clearly the priv-
ilege and glory of salvation from sin. This was the theme of his meditation
and conversation ; and he even confessed, at times, in a timid way, that he
was free from sin. In this respect he as really condemned the routine of
Biaxdng and repenting which was the only experience allowed or known in the
272 SETTLEMENT WITH THE PAST.
churches before him, as we do. His biographers were so sensible of this,
that they thought it necessary to suppress the clearest part of his testimony
in relation to his own salvation. He was indeed a '
burning and a shining
light'—the John the Baptist of the doctrine of holiness—the connecting hnk
between the old dispensation and the new. The impulse which he gave,
contributed materially to the birth of the true gospel. The semi-Perfectionist
schools that have arisen since his time, (those of Mahan, Beecher, &c.,)
have fallen behind, rather than advanced beyond him. In determining his
position, we shall determine the position of his followers. We allege, then,
(1,) that in his religious course as a whole, confession of sin was the rule, and
confession of holiness the exception ; (2,) that he never ' received the prom-
ise' of the new covenant, the very essence of which is a pledge of security in
hoHness ; (3,) that he gave no evidence of any clear knowledge of the radi-
cal distinction between the Jewish and Christian dispensations, the spiritual
at-one-ment, the regenerating power of Christ's resurrection, and the Bible
standard of the second birth. His views of regeneration did not differ mate-
rially from those of the churches of which he was a member and minister.
If they had, he would have been put under arrest. He never planted him-
self on the high position that ' he that is born of God sinneth not.' He be-
lieved and taught as other ministers do, that conversion to a religion of sin
and repentance is regeneration ; and of course that conversion to holiness is
not of itself the radical and essential work of grace, but only a very desirable
supplement to sinful regeneration. In view of these facts we conclude with-
out a scruple, that he did not know the gospel of the primitive church, and
was not born of God in the Bible sense. We do not beheve that James
Brainerd Taylor himself, if he were now to return from the world of spirits,
would find fault with us for thus plainly statmg these facts and this conclusion.
4. The same things, in substance, may be said of WilHam Law, Madame
Guion, and the whole class of mystic Perfectionists. They had much knowl-
edge and experience in some departments of spiritual truth, and their wri-
tings may be read with profit by the disciples of the gospel. Their labors
* prepared the way of the Lord.' But the discerning reader of their books
will find that their strength was laid out, not on the subject of holiness, nor
on the great agencies of the gospel which gave birth to holiness, viz., the
spiritual appHcation of the death and resurrection of Christ, the introduction
of the new covenant, &c., but on a system oi spiritual philosophy, which is
nearly as independent of those facts as the science of Mesmerism, and has
no necessary connection with salvation from sin. Swedenborg was deeper in
this kind of philosophy than any of them, and he was far enough from the
truth on the subject of hohness. Wilham Law is the best representative of
this class, and his Address to the Clergy is the best of his books. Let any
one examine that Address critically, (not our edition, which is expurgated
of the worst of its legalities and false doctrines, but the whole original Ad-
dress,) and he will find that its treatment of salvation from sin by the faith of
Christ—the central subject of the gospel,—is very meagre ; that more of its
pages are devoted to non-resistance and other legalities, than to holiness
that its main doctrine is, that religion is the fruit of inspiration—a true and
SETTLEMENT WITH TEE PAST. 273
valuable doctrine, and admirably developed, but wo^ the gospel ; that it af»
firms the existence of an original indestructible divine nature in all men; de-
nies, in the face of the Bible, the doctrine of election, and openly avows
Universalism. Law was the real father of Methodist Perfectionism, and his
image may be seen in it. We leave the reader to judge whether the father
of such a child had knowledge and experience of the new covenant gospel.
5. The various sects that have held the doctrine of perfection, such as
the Methodists, Moravians, and Shakers, may be spoken of in the lump.
(1,) They have all made holiness not the main point in religion, but an ap-
pendage to something else. (2, ) They have denied or suppressed the most
essential element of the new covenant, viz. security, (3,) They have dealt
largely in various legalities. (4,) They have not manifested any true knoAvl-
edge of those great facts of gospel history which are inseparably connected
with the primitive doctrine of holiness, viz., the radical change of dispensa-
tion at the introduction of Christianity, and the Second Advent at the
destruction of Jerusalem. Each of these defects is sufficient to render an
attempt to establish the doctrine of holiness in the world an abortion. Holi-
ness, as a secondary to something else ; holiness without security ; holiness
under law ; holiness without the truth of the new covenant ; and especially,
holiness under all these evil conditions, has no permanent vitality—cannot live
long in the smothering atmosphere of this sinful world. Accordingly, the
preaching and profession of salvation from sin, in the sects of which we speak,
after some flourish at the beginning, has died away and become virtually, if
not formally, exdnct. We have at the present time experiments of this kind
in progress, by which the value of the various semi-Perfectionisms of the past
may be judged. Oberlin is a specimen.
All the approaches that have been made by individuals and sects toward
the gospel of salvation from sin, since the commencement of the Gentile
economy, are to be regarded as a series of convictions in the experience of
the religious world, more or less pungent, preceding and tending to the final
effectual conversion to holiness. The churches have had the record of the
primitive gospel before them ; and gleams of the central truths of that gospel
could not but flash out from time to time, in spite of all the envelopments of
commentaries. The Spirit of truth has co-operated with the record ; and
when the circumstances and temperaments of individuals and sects have far
vored the operation of these agencies, a conviction has been produced, which
has manifested itself in partial and temporary enthusiasms about salvation
from sin. Some have groaned under the fight ; others have reflected it ob-
scurely and for a season, in their experience. But a thorough spiritual crisis
was never formed till within a few years. Half-way measures of reform were
adopted, and the convictions passed away, as they often pass away from in-
dividuals convinced of sin.
Whoever has come up out of the law, into the grace of full salvation, re-
members that he had repeated seasons of deep interest and anxiety on the
subject of holiness, before he came to the decisive crisis ; and that, in some
happy moments, when the truth that shone upon him gave color to his feel-
ings, and the dawning hope of holiness seemed a reafity, he was emboldened
274 fi^TLEMENt WITH fHK PASt.
to proclaim tlie attainableness of that blessing, and to confess in some dul)i«
ous waj, as the Oberlin brethren do, his own experience of it. This, we
believe, is a miniature of the experience of the religions world, and places in
a true light the various semi-Perfectionisms of individuals and sects, which
have manifested themselves in the past history of Christendom.
This view^ shows us the true answer to those who tell us that the doctrine
of perfection is an old heresy that has been tried and exploded again and
again in the past ages of the church. The trials and explosions which they
refer to, were convictions of truths recurring agaiii and again in spite of all
Satan's efforts to suppress them. And these wise men, at the present crisis^
are doing for the religious world just w4iat4he tempter does for the awakened
sinner, when he suggests that the convictions which are now pressing upon
tim, have troubled him again and agaiti before, but never effected any
thing.
The analogy which is properly to be looked for, between the first and sec-*
ond dispensations of law, confirms the conclusion to which the preceding sug-
gestions lead. In the course of the Mosaic econofny, there were, from time
to timCj notable revivals of spirituality^ and approximations to gospel knowl-
edge and experience. Yet we know that '
the w^ay into the hohest was not
made manifest while the first tabernacle was standing/ and that the Old Tes-
tament saints were not born of God till the harvest-tiftie of their dispensation.
Regeneration is the beginning of the resurrection; and the beginning of such
ft process cannot be far from the etid* Accordingly men were not born of
God till just before the first resurrection. The transition^period between the
first and second coming of Christ was but the tiftie of one generation ; and
it was during that period that the true goapel w^etit forth, and the saints, for
the first time, experienced the second birth. It might reasonably be inferred,-
therefore, that in the Gentile dispensation of lawj the revelation of Christ
as a Savior from sin 5 and the introduction of the new covenant, would be
deferred till near the harvest-time—that regeneration, instead of being dis*
tributed along the whole course of the dispensation, would be the near pre-
cursor of the second resurrection. We do not disparage the worthies of the
Gentile church, when we say of them-—' These all, having obtained a good
Import through faith, received not the promise ; God having provided some
better thing for us, that they without us should not be made perfect.' It is
tio disparagement to any of the laborers in God's vineyard, to say that he
has so arranged the times and seasons of his grace that *
he that soweth and
he that reapeth, rejoice together.'
The object of our labor on this subject, is to check the tendency which is
very strong in the churches, and exists more or less among I^erfectionists, to
look back to the experience and teachings of such men as Brainerd, Taylor^
and Law, as though they were standards of gospel truth. Much jealousy has
been manifested in certain quarters, lest Perfectionists should lower the stan^
dard of the law. But there is a ivorse kind of standard-lowering than this.
Law, so long as the holiness which it requires is regarded as an unattainable
abstraction not necessary to salvation, may be exalted to heaven without
Shaking any body the better. The standard ^hich has most t^ do with prac-
gECOND COMING OF CHRIST. 275
xical interests, is that of attainable, necessary experience. But the very men
who say so much against lowering the standard of the law, are the first to
turn away from the primitive standard of experience, and level all hopes to
the height attained by certain modern saints, whose biographies are highly
esteemed. We appeal from all these biographies to the record of that church
which established this standard of experience : 0^'IIe that is born of God
doth not commit sin; for his seed remaimth in him ; and he cannot sin^M-
cause he is horn of G-od.'j:;^ Boldly may we say of any saint, ancient or
modern, who has fallen short in knowledge and experience of the hohness and
the security defined in this standard, though he may have been greatest of all
that have been born of women, ' he that is least in the kingdom of heavea 13
greater than he/
HO. THE SECOND COMING OF CHRIST,
On almost every page of the New Testament we find the second coming
of Christ held up as the central beacon-light of the hopes of believers—an
event which should bring ^em a perfect^ secure, and glorious redemption.
We select the following passages as specimens of a multitude of expressions
relating to that event : —' Then shall they see the Son of man coming in a
cloud with power and great glory : and when these things begin to come to
pass, then look up and lift up your heads, for your redemption draweth nigh.*
Luke 21: 26, 27. ' Our conversation is in heaven; from whence also we
look for the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who shall change our vile body,
and make it like unto his glorious body.' Phil. 3: 20. *
When Christ, who is
our life, shall appear, then shall we also appear with him in glory.' CoL 3;
4. '
Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, v/hich the
Lord the righteous Judge shall give me at that day ; and not to me only,
but to all them also that love his appearing.' 2Tim. 4: 8. '
Looking for that
blessed hope, and the glorious appearing of the great God and our Savior Je-
sus Christ.' Tit. 2: 13. Unto them that look for him shall he appear the
second time, without sin, unto salvation.' Heb. 11: 28. ' Be patient there*
fore, brethren, unto the coming of the Lord. Behold the husbandman wait-
eth for the precious fruit of the earth, and hath long patience for it, until he
receive the early and latter rain : be ye also patient, stablish your hearts,
for the coming of the Lord draweth nigh.' James 5: 7, 8. '
Gird up the loins
of your minds—be sober and hope to the end for the grace that is to be brought
unto you at the revelation of Jesus Christ.' 1 Pet. 1: 13. '
We know that
when he shall appear we shall be like him.' 1 John 3: 2, &c.
The glorious event which thus animated the faith of primitive believers, as
marking the period of the perfeetion of their faith, and their entrance upon
the possession of the fullness of the gift of God's grace, though seemingly nigh
at hand at that time, is at this day generally thrown forward, in the faith of
I'
276 SECOND COMING OF CHBIST.
the churches, into the shadows of a distant and indefinite futurity. Our ob-
ject in the present article, is to call the attention of those who love the word
of God more than creeds, to the testimony of that word concerning the twie
of the second comhig of the Son of man.
I. Definition of the second coming.
What is meant hy the second eomiyig of Christ ? We may answer this
question bv referring to one of those parables in which Christ presents a min-
iature of the whole dispensation introduced by his first coming. '
A certain
nobleman went into a far country, to receive for himself a kingdom, and to
return. And he called his ten servants, and deUvered them ten pounds, and
said unto them, Occupy till I come. But his citizens hated him, and sent a
message after him, saying, we will not have this man to reign over us. And
it came to pass, that when he was retmiied, having received the kingdom^
then he commanded these servants to be called unto him,' [and he reckoned
with them, and rewarded them accoring to their several merits, both good
and bad, and then said] —' But those mine enemies, which avouIcI not that I
should reign over them, bring hither, and slay them before me.' Luke 19: 12.
This illustration represents the first coming of Christ, as the period when he
delivered the treasures of the gospel to his servants, and went away ; and his
second coming as the period when he returned and reckoned with them, re-
warding the faithful, and taking vengeance on his enemies. The parable
may also be understood as intimating that Christ in his fir^.t coming was
comparatively poiverless ; but when he came the second time, he had
^received a kingdom^ and was clothed with full power to judge, reward, and
execute vengeance. By the second coming of Christ, then, we mean his
coming in the power of judgment, to reckon tvith, reward, and punish, those
to whom he delivered the gospel at his first coming—we mean the day of
judgment for the primitive church and the Jetuish nation.
We do not onean by the second coming of Christ, the final and genlhal
JUDGMENT. The popular notion concerning the judgment of mankind is, that
it is to be a single transaction, occupying a single period of time. Joining
this notion to the discovery, which everv reader of the New Testament must
ultimately make, that the judgment of the second coming is clearly predicted
in the New Testament as immediately to follow the destruction of Jerusalem,
many have believed and taught that ' the judgment [meaning the whole, or
final judgment] is past."* These views, whether held by Universahsts or
Perfectionists, we disclaim, and instead of them, insist that the judgment of
mankind, according to scripture, is divided into two acts, occupying two peri-
ods of time, separated from each other by an interval of more than a thousand
years. In the twentieth chapter of Revelations this division of the judgment
is unequivocally described. John saw, when Satan was first bound and cast
into the pit, thrones and judgment given to the martyrs of Christ, and they
lived and reigned with him a thousand years, but the rest of the dead lived not.
' This,' says the apostle, ' is the first resurrection;' and we may properly add,
this is ^\Q first judgment. liev. 20: 5. Afterward Satan is loosed again,* gath-
ers Gog and Magog to the great battle, is defeated and cast into the lake of
fire forever. Then again appears a throne, a second resurrection and a «ecv
one? judgment. Rev. 20: 12,
I SECOND COMING OF CHRIST. 277
The same division of the judgment into two acts, separated by a long inter-
val, is very conspicuous in the vision of the seals and trumpets. Rev. 6:
7, &c. When the sixth seal opens, the Lamb appears on the throne of judg-
ment and the tribes of the earth wail because of him, saying, ' the great day
of his wrath is come.'' Afterwards the seventh seal is opened, and seven
angels with trumpets are introduced. As they sound their trumpets succes-
sively, a variety of events transpire, necessarily occupying a long period of
time. At length, after the sounding of the seventh trumpet, Christ is pro-
claimed sovereign of the world, and a second and final day of judgment is
announced. Rev. 11: 15—18. Unless the sixth seal covers the same period
with the seventh trumpet, (which cannot be maintained with any show of
reason,) it is manifest to mere inspection that there are tzuo acts of judgment /
—tivo periods of wrath and recompense.
As G-od divided mankind into two great families—the Jew^s and the Gen-
tiles—so he has appointed a separate judgment for each. The harvest of
the Jews came first, because they w^ere ripened first. God separated them
from the rest of the nations, and for two thousand years poured upon them
the sunshine and the rain of religious discipline. When Christ came he said
the fields were white. By the preaching of Christ and his apostles, the pro-
cess, necessary to make way for the judgment, was complete. At the de-
struction of Jerusalem, the Jews as a nation were judged. Then the king-
dom of heaven passed from the Jews to the Gentiles. Matt. 21: 48. God
commenced a process of preparation for a second judgment. The Gentiles
came under the sunshine and rain, which had before been sent upon the Jews.
For nearly two thousand years the Gentile crop has been maturing, and we
may reasonably look for the Gentile harvest as near.
That we may therefore speak of the judgment scripturally and intelligently,
we will distinctly recognize the division of it which is made in scripture, by
calling one of the acts the ^^^stjiidfinient, and the other the final judgmeyit.
With this explanation, we shall be understood when we say, ^lat in speak-
ing of the second coming of Christ v;e refer to the first and not to the filial
judgment. It is not our object in this article to discuss the subject of the
second or final judgment. The simple confession here that we believe it to
he future, will sufficiently preclude any honest inference from the doctrine
we are about to present, that we believe, or wish to believe that the day of
our judgment is past.
XL CnniST'S DESIGXATION OF THE TIME OF HIS SECOND COMING.
In our inquiries about the time of the second coming, it is important that
we receive the testimony of scripture in its proper order. The first question
is, ivho shall he our first ivitness ? Shall we call Daniel upon the stand, and
taking his prophetic numbers for our starting poiijt, plunge ourselves into a
chaos of arithmetical calculations—and when we have made out a case by his
testimony, then admit Jesus Christ, and judge and m.odify his testimony by
our reckoning of Dciniel's numbers ? Common sense points to a different
mode of trial. Jesus Christ certainly ought to be our first witness. His own
second coming is the matter in question. He is a greater than Daniel or any
other prophet. He lived nearer than Daniel to the event. If he has spoken
278 SECOND COMING OP CHRIST.
of the time of his advent, let us hear him first, anS then if necessary judge
and modify all other prophecies by his testimony.
In the twenty-fourth chapter of Matthew, after predicting the unexampled
tribulations of the destruction of Jerusalem, Christ,says : 'Immediately after
the tribulation of those days, shall the sun be darkened and then
shall appear the sign of the Son of man in heaven, and then shall all the tribes
of the earth mourn ; and they shall see the Son of man coming in the clouds
of heaven, with power and great glory.' Matt. 24: 29, 30. The nature of
the coming here described is fully determined, not only by the attendant
* gathering of the elect,' but also by the parallel description in Rev. 6. The
language of John concerning the •
great day of the wrath of the Lamb,' ush-
ered in by the opening of the sixth seal, is so perfectly identical with the
language of Christ in the passage quoted, that we may reasonably believe he
copied it ; and we cannot doubt that he used it with reference to the same
events. As little can we doubt that both describe a day oijudgment. Un-
derstanding then that our inquiry relates to the first great judgment spoken
of in the sixth of Revelations, as well as in the twenty-fourth of Matthew, we
ask, what must we conclude is the true meaning of Christ's prediction concern-
ing the time ? He says that the time of that judgment should be 'immediately
after the tribulatioyi' of the days of Jerusalem's overthrow : but since preju-
dice and tradition must for the present dictate to common sense, we are still
obliged to ask does he mean what he says f In answering this question,
we shall appeal to several statements in the subsequent context, and in other
•discourses of Christ.
1. After the above introduction of his second coming, Christ goes on to
^ay, '
Now learn a parable of the fig-tree. When his branch is yet tender
.and putteth forth leaves, ye know that summer is nigh. So likewise ye, when
ye see all these things, [viz. the visible signs which he had foretold in the
former part of his discourse,] hnoiv that it [i. e. his coming] is near^ even
at the doors.^ Matt. 24: 32, 33. We perceive in this that Christ had it di-
rectly in view to so instruct his disciples concerning the time that they should
be in no danger of mistake ; and therein we have a pledge of the simplicity
•of his language. So that there is no conceivable reason for doubting that he
intended to convey the idea w^hich lies on the face of his words ; viz. that his
•second coming should follow the visible signs he foretold, as closely as sum-
mer follows the budding of the fig-tree. The last of those signs was the de-
Btruction of Jerusalem ; and of course his statement here is precisely what it
was before, viz., that the Son of man should come, 'immediately after the
tnhulation of those days."* Moreover, it should be observed that his language
.plainly implies, that the persons he addressed would have an opportunity of
observing the whole series of tokens that were to precede the second coming.
On any other supposition the parable is impertinent.
2. But the context furnishes another and still more indisputable index of
irhe real meaning of Christ. As though he were determined to accumulate
emphasis to the uttermost, upon the truth he was uttering, he proceeds in
the usual form of his most important affirmations, and with all the solemnity
of a tremendous oath, to state once more the hmitation of the time within
SECOND COMING OF CHRIST. 279'
which his coming should take place. ' Verily Isay unto you^ this generation
shall not pass till all these things be fulfilled. Heaven and earth shall pass
away, but my words shall not p)ass awmy.^ Matt. 24: 34, 35. It is fash-
ionable with those who have theories to maintain that are inconsistent with
this statement, to work out—each for himself—ingenious expositions of the
word generation. One refers it to the Jews, another to the righteous, a
third to tirose that persecuted Christ, and a fourth to a generation that will be
living when Christ appears 1* These expositions are confidently if not plausi-
bly supported, in most cases, by quotations of examples from the Psalms and
prophets, in which the w^ord generation means, not the mass of men living at
one time, but a pecuUar race or sort of persons : as for instance, '
God is in
the generation of the righteous.' Psa. 14: 5. Now the only fair way of ar-
guing from usage, w^hen the case admits of it, is to appeal to the usage of
the writer himself, whose language is in question. Instead of going to David
and Isaiah, in another age and another language, we will let Christ himself
determine w^hat Christ means by the word generation. And indeed we need
not go out of the book of Matthew. Christ uses not only the word, but the
very phrase in question, '
This ge7ieration,^ at least five times in the previous
discourses recorded by Matthew; and we need only to quote the passages to
make manifest his meaning. '
Whereunto shall I liken this generation f It
is like unto children sitting in the markets, and calhng unto their fellows, and
saying. We have piped unto you, and ye have not danced ; we have mourn-
ed unto you, and ye have not lamented. For John came neither eating nor
drinking, and they say. He hath a devil. The Son of man came eating and
drinking, and they say. Behold a man gluttonous, and a wine-bibber, a friend
of publicans and sinners. But wisdom is justified of her children.' Matt.
11: 16—19. ' The men of Nineveh shall rise in judgment with this gene-
ration, and shall condemn it : because they repented at the preaching of
Jonas ; and, behold, a greater than Jonas is here. The queen of the soutb
shall rise up in the judgment with this generation, and shall condemn it : for
she came from the uttermost parts of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solo-
mon ; and behold, a greater than Solomon is here.' 12: 41, 42. [As the-
unclean spirit returning with seven other spirits worse than himself, makes
the last state of the wicked man w^orse than the first,] '
even so shall it be
also unto this wicked generation.'' 12: 43^—45. ' Behold I send unto you
prophets, and wise men, and scribes ; and some of them ye shall kill and
crucify ; and some of them ye shall scourge in your synagogues, and perse-^
Gute them from city to city ; that upon you may come all the righteous blood
shed upon the earth, from the blood of righteous Abel, unto the blood of
Zacharias, son of Barachias, whom ye slew between the temple and the altar.
Verily I say unto you, all these things shall come upon this generation."^
23: 34—36. Now who would think of going to the Old Testament for help
to determine the meaning of the word generation in these passages ? And
who can imagine that the same w^ord loses its plain meaning and becomes
jRgurative, in passing from almost the last verse of the twenty-third chapter
* See Clarke's Commentary, Miller's Lectures, Signs of the Times, T. R. Gates's
Writings, &c.
280 SECOND COMING OF CHRIST.
into the twenty-fourth ? The passage in dispute, (Matt. 24: 84,) is the last
in the series of instances in -which the phrase '
this generation'' occurs with
evident unifonnitj of meaning, and it is ahnost a literal repetition of the
instance which immediately precedes it—Matt. 23: 36. Viewing all these
passages in their connection with each other, we discover most clearly that
the people concerning whom Christ habitually used the phrase '
tlds genero'
tion,^ were they who as a mass had heard and rejected John the Baptist and
himself, and were thus rapidly becoming ripe in wickedness. Foreseeing that
this same generation would crucify himself, persecute the apostles, and persist
in their unbelief and malice till the measure of their iniquities would be full
he justly threatened them with the gathered vengeance due to all the mur-
ders of the righteous from the beginning of the world. As chey by their
pre-eminent wickedness were becoming the representatives of the sinners of
all past generations, it was meet that the debt of wrath due to the whole
world should be paid to them, and should be paid without delay, before the
generation had left the earth, that their sin and punishment might be seen
together. Accordingly after saying in the 23d chapter, '
Verily I say unto
you, all these things' [to wit, the punishment due to all previous persecutors]
* shall come urou this generation,' he goes on in the 24th chapter to specify
the items of chat punishment. He speaks of wars, famines, pestilences, earth-
quakes, a most terrific and swelling series of outward calamities, ending with
the destruction of the holy city ; and then continuing the series by passing
into the spiritual world, he predicts as immediately to follow this climax of
outward ruin, the appearance of the Son of m.an in the majesty of eternal
judgment, the wailing of his crucifiers, and the glorious gathering of his elect.
In perfect keeping then, with his former sayings, and with the demands of
the case, he adds, ^Verily I say unto you. this generation shall not ]jass
till all these things he fulfJlecL^
Even in the Old Testament there is a very appropriate illustration of the
meaning of the word generation in the case in question. '
The Lord heard
the voice of your words,' said Moses, '
and was wroth and sware, saying,
surely there shall not one of these men of this evilgeneration see that good
land, which I sware to give unto your fathers, save Caleb, the son of Je-
phunneh.' Deut. 1: 34—36. The generation that came out of Egypt
saw and despised the wonders which God wrought in delivering them from
Pharaoh and maintaining them in the wilderness, and thus became dreadfully
"wicked, insomuch that God destroyed them, and only suffered their children
to enter the promised land. In like manner, the generation that lived in the
time of Christ and his apostles, saw and despised the mighty works of God.
It was unquestionably the wickedest generation that ever lived on the earth.
Indeed it is not possible that any other generation should be so wicked ; for
they crucified the Lord of glory, and he cannot die again. It was meet,
therefore, that upon that generation should come '
such tribulation as never
was, no nor ever shall he.'' Therefore Christ said '
this generation shall not
pass' till the wrath of God shall be revealed against them to the uttermost.
3. The meaning of Christ's statement in the 24th of Matthew is, if pos-
sible, still more clearly determined and manifested by the three following
SECOIO) COMING OF CHIIIST. 281
equivalent statements, which occur in his other discourses. (1,) ^Verily
I say unto you^ ye shall not liave gone over the cities of Israel till the Son of
man he come.'' Matt. 10: 23. (2,) '
Verily I say unto you, there be some
standing here ivho shall not taste of death, till they see the Son of man com-
ing in his kingdom.'' 16: 28. (3,) 'If I will that he [Jo/m] tarry till
Ico77ie, ivhat is that to theef Jno. 21: 22. Here we have three separate
forms of the same prediction, all terminating in the same point—all affirming
directly or by obvious implication, precisely the truth which we have found
in three other forms before.
Some of those who are determined not to receive the simple meaning of
these texts, dispose of them by referring them, especially the two former,
either to the transfiguration of Christ on the Mount, or to the day of Pente-
cost. But we ask, where is the proof that either of these events is ever called
elsewhere in the Evangelists the coming of Christ ? If we suppose Christ to
have used in these three instances, with reference to those events, an expres-
sion which every where else in his discourses refers to the day of Judgment,
and that too without any explanation, we impute to him the most outrageous
duplicity. These time-serving interpretations trample not only on usage but
on common sense ; for at the transfiguration, Christ had not gone aivay
so that it would have been nonsense to have called that event his coming
and the effiision of the Holy Ghost on the day of Pentecost, was the coming,
not of Christ, (for he had gone away only forty days before,) but of that -^
'•other comforter'' which he promised to send his disciples in his absence. ?
We shall perhaps be referred to 2 Peter 1: 16, as an instance in which the
transfiguration is called the '
coming' of Christ. But a slight examination of I
the passage will show the fallacy of the reference. Says the apostle, ' We 5
have not followed cunningly devised fables, when we made known to you the
^
power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ^^,JW^u and where had he
^
made known to them his power and coming ? ObviousljTrrte-pi^xLQus.^,^ ^
tie and preaching. Turning to the first chapter of that epistle, we find his
first and favorite theme was, Hlie salvation ready to he revealed in the last
time^'dt the appearing of Jesus Christ—-Hhe grace that was to he hrought
unto the saints, at the revelation of Jesus Christ.' We find him also in other
records of his preaching, like the other apostles, prominently presenting the
second coming of Christ as the great hope of the church ; e.g., Acts 3: 20.
To assure his readers more fiilb^ of that glorious hope, he refers them in his
second epistle to the transfiguration. ^^We were,' says he, 'eye-witnesses of
his majesty on the holy mount;- i. e., we have seen his spiritual glory, and
we therefore know what will be his povfer at his promised coming.' Observe
the apostle does not say he was an eye-witness of Christ's corning, but only
of his majesty. The transfiguration was an anticipative glimpse of the power
and glory 0^ ih.Q second coming ; and as such, Peter very properly referred
to it for confirmation of the hopes of those who were waiting for the Lord.
But, supposing it were possible for those who wish to evade the testimony
in question, to bring some plausible proof that the^rs^ two of the three passages
quoted, refer to the transfiguration or to the day of Pentecost—what will they
say to the thirds Christ had predicted Peter's death. Thereupon Peter
00
:282 SECOND COMl^*(i OE CHRTSf.
asked hliii what should be the lot of John. He answered, 'If I will tliat he
tarry till I come, what is that to thee? Follow thou me.' Here is a plain
intimation, first, that John should outhve Peter; secondly, that he should live
till the second coming ; and of course, thirdly, that the second coming should
take place after the death of Peter, and before that of John. Now Peter
was crucified long after the transfiguration and the day of Pentecost. Of
course, ^till I come^ can not refer to either of those events. But John cer*
tainly departed soon after the destruction of Jerusalem. Of course Hill I
come^ must refer to an event which took place near the period of that
destruction.
We may sum up and concentrate the testimony we have examined in this
section, thus : Christ designated the time of his second coming in six different
ways. 1. He placed it immediately after the destruction of Jerusalem.
2. He instructed his disciples to expect it, when they should see the fearful
signs, that should precede and accompany the destruction of Jerusalem, as
they would look for summer after the budding of the fig-tree. 3. He most
solemnly declared it w^ould take place before the generation cotemporary with
himself would pass away. 4. He assured his disciples that it would happen
before their ministry to the Jews would be finished* 5. He said there were
some standing with him who should live till the event. 6. He plainly int>
mated that John should tarry till his coming.
III. The expectations of the primitive church.
There is abundant proof in the New Testament that the primitive believers
understood the foregoing predictions of Christ in their most obvious sense ;
and accordingly e^cpected the second coming within the lifetime of some of
their own number. We will notice a few specim^ens of their customary man-
ner of speech concerning the second coming. '
Ye come behind in no gift,
waiting for the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ.'' 1 Cor. 1: 7^ '
Our con-
versation is in heaven, from ivhence also we look for the Savior, the Lord
Jesus Christ.^ Phil. 3: 20. ' Ye turned to God from idols, to serve the
living and true God, and to wait for his Son from heave7i.^ IThess. 1: 10.
' The grace of God . . . hath appeared, . . . teaching us . . . that we
should live soberly, &c., looking for that blessed hope and the glorious ap-
pearing of the great God and our Savior Jesus Christ. Tit. 2: 11—13.
Such languftge as this is perfectly natural on the supposition that they under-
stood Christ's predictions as setting the period of the second coming nigh at
hand ; and perfectly unnatural on any other supposition, as is proved by the
fact that such language at the present day, when the churches generally be-
lieve the second coming to be afar off, is altogether obsolete ; except among
those whose theory, like that of Miller, places the second advent very near
the present time. Men do not wait and look for a far distant event. Such
language implies that the event expected is supposed to be impending.
The following may be taken as examples of another class of passages,
which occur on almost every page of the Epistles. '
Being confident of this
very thing, that lie who hath begun a good work in you will perform it until
the day of Jesus Christ ; . . . that ye may be sincere and without ofiense
till iJie day qf Christ.'' Phil. 1 : 6, 10. * I pray God your whole spirit and
SECOND COMING OF CHRIST. 283
BG\il and body be preserved blameless unto the coming of our Lord Jesus
Christ''* 1 Thess. 5: 23. 'I give thee charge, . . . that thou keep this
commandment without spot and blameless, mitil the aj^fpearing of our Lord
Jesus Christ.' 1 Tim. 6 : 13, 14. Nothing can be plainer than that tho
second coming of Christ, in the minds of those who use such language as this,
was the event which stood at the end of their trial of obedience. They mani^
festly waited for it as though it were so nigh that their temporal probation
would reach ' unto' it.
In the following instances the expectations of primitive believers are ex«
pressed in the most explicit terms :
'
Let your moderation be known unto all
men : The Lord is at hand.' Phil. 4: 5. 'Let us consider one another, &c.,
exhorting one another : and so much the more as ye see the day approachingJ
Heb. 10: 24, 25. ' Ye have need of patience, &c., for yet a little tvhile,
and he that shall come ivill come^ and will not tarry.' Heb, 10: 36, 37,
' Be patient, therefore, brethren, unto the coming of the Lord.—Stablish your
hearts : for the comiyig of the Lord draiveth nigh.—The Judge standeth at
the door.' James 5: 7—9. 'The end of all things is at hmid.-^The time is
come that judgment must begin at the house of Grod.' iPet. 4: 7, 17.
In those remarkable passages of Paul which relate to the resurrection, it
is impossible not to discover clear evidence of the same confident expectation
of Ihe speedy coming of the Lord. '
We shall not all sleep, but we shall all
be changed. In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trump ;
for the trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall be raised incorruptible, and
we shall he changed.' 1 Cor. 15: 51, 52. ' For this we say unto you by the
word of the Lord, that tve which are alive and remain unto^he coming of the
XortZ, shall not prevent [i.e. anticipate] themwhich are asleep. For the Lord
himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the archan-
gel, and with the trump of God : and the dead in Christ shall rise first : then
we which are alive and remain^ shall be caught up together with them in the
clouds, to meet the Lord in the air.' 1 Thess. 4: 15—17. If Paul had be.
Ueved the resurrection to be a far distant event, he would have said, ' We
who will then be dead shall be raised incorruptible, and they that remain alive
shall be changed.* But in both the instances, where such language might
have been expected, he transposes the pronouns we and they^ as though he
studiously sought to make it manifest, that he expected to be himself among
the number of the living at the coming of the Lord.
We will not further multiply citations shomng the expectations of primitive
believers, but refer the reader, if he needs further evidence on the subject,
to an examination of the whole New Testament. The position which we think
the evidence already presented abundantly sustains, is, that as Christ predic->
ted, so the primitive church expected^ his second coming within the lifetime
of their own generation.*
* It mig-lit be proved by the testimony of secular historians, that the primitive church
believed the second coming to be nigh at hand. The following extract Ivom Gibbon is 4
specimen of such testimony :
*
In the primitive church, the influence of truth was very powerfully strengthened by
an opinion, which, however it may deserve respect for its usefulness and antiquily. has
not been found agreeable to experience. It was universally believed^ that the endof ih©
284 SECOND COMING OF CimiST.
Let it be borne in mind, that the primitive church were cotemporarics with
Christ—that many of them received Christ's predictions of his second advent
from his own Ups—that the language in which those predictions were uttered
was their mother tongue—and that they were favored with unexampled mea-
sures of the spirit of interpretation and revelation—in a word, that they were
in the most favorable circumstances possible for correctly understanding the
language of Christ. Now shall we suppose that they made a mistake of eigh-
teen hundred years in their construction of his plain predictions ; and that a
generation of interpreters living at the present day, at a distance of eighteen
hundred years from the time of Christ, without any knowledge of the lan-
guage in which Christ spoke, except what they get from translations and
lexicons, and confessedly without the spirit of revelation, have risen up to
set them right
IV. The fulfilment of the signs predicted.
Several of the prophets of the Old Testament foretold events that should
go before the ' great day of the Lord,' and should be signs of its a^pproach.
Thus Malachi says, 'Behold I will send you Elijah theprojjhet, hefqre the com-
ing of the great and dreadful day of the Lord.'' Mai. 4: 5. We have it on
Christ's authority, that this prediction was fulfilled in his day. He says of
John the Baptist, *
If ye will receive it, thU is JElias which was for to cor^e.'^
Mat. 11: 14. Again, Joel says '
I Avill pour out my Spirit upon all flesh ;
and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy ;
your old men shall dream
dreams, your young men shall see visions. And also upon the servants and
upon the handmaids in those days I will pour out my spirit. And I will show
wonders in the heflvens and in the earth, blood, and fire, and pillars of smoke.
The sun shall be turned into darkness, and the moon into blood, before the
great and the terrible day of the Lord corned Joel 2: 28—31. Peter, on
the day of Pentecost, announced that this prophecy was then in course of
fulfilment. When the people were amazed at the works of the Spirit, and
said of them that spake with tongues, '
These men are full of new wine,'
Peter said, ' These are not drunken as ye suppose, .... but tlds is that
which was spoken by the prophet JoeV—and then he proceeds to recite the
passage above quoted.
world and the king-dom ofheaven, were at hand. The near approach ofthis wonderful event
had been predicted by the apostles ; the tradition of it was preserved by their earliest
disciples; and those who understood in their literal sense the discourses of Christ him-
self, were oljlig-ed to expect the second and g-lorious coming of the Son of man in the
clouds, before that generation was totally exting-uished which had beheld his humble
condition upon earth, and which might still be witnesses of the calamities of the Jews
under Vespasian and Hadrian. The revolution ofseventeen centuries has instructed us
not to press too closely the mysterious languag-e of prophecy and revelation ; but as
Jong" as, for wise purposes, this error was permitted to subsist in the church, it was
productive of the most salutary effects on the faith and practice of Christians, who lived
in the awful expectation of that moment when the g-lobe itself, and all the various race
of mankind, should tremble at the presence of their divine Judg-e. This expectation was
countenanced by the 24th chapter of Matthew, and by the first epistle of St. Paul to Ihe
Thessalonians. Erastus removes the difficulty by the help of nlleg-ory and metaphor ;
and the learned Grotius ventures to insinuate, that, for wise purposes, the pious de-
ception was permitted to take place' GiObon's Rome, Vol. 1, p. 2C1.
SECOND COMING OP CHRIST. 285
In the twenty-fourth of Matthew, Christ takes up the series of signs where
Malachi and Joel leave it, and predicts with much minuteness the principal
events of tlie period between the day of Pentecost and the destruction of Je-
rusalem. It should be noticed that these predictions, though mingled togeth-
er, are of two distinct sorts ; 1, those which relate to events in the history of
the Christian church—such as persecutions, the appearance of antichrists, the
universal publication of the gospel, &c.; 2, those which relate to events in
the history of the Jews, and other nations—such as wars, pestilences, earth-
quakes, &c. We naturally look to external history for a record of these last
events : and as the history of the downfall of the Jewish nation is generally
familiar, and no one denies that the fearful physical calamities which Christ
predicted in the 24th of Matthew, actually came to pass in that generation,
we need not offer any proof in relation to the second class of predictions. It
is of more importance to direct the reader's attention to the evidence we have
of the fulfilment of the first class of tokens—those which, by their connection
with the history of the church, and by their spiritual nature, were more em-
phatically the precursors of the coming of Christ. It is not generally suppo-
sed that those tokens—especially the appearance of antichrist, and the uni-
versal publication of the gospel— did actually come to pass in that age ; so
that it is the more necessary that we should present our proof in relation
to them. We find proof IN the New Testament, that antichrist was re-
vealed^ and that the gospel was published to all nations^ before the destruction
of Jerusalem. The follo^ving synopsis presents Christ's predictions relative
to those events, with the record of their fulfilment in the opposite column
PREDICTIONS.
* Many false prophets shall rise, and
shall deceive many.' Matt. 24: 11.
* Because iniquity shall abound, the
love of many shall wax cold.' Matt. 24:
12.
'
There shall arise false Christs, and
false prophets.' Matt. 24: 24. [Paul
repeats this and the preceding predic-
tion in 2 Thess. 2: 8.] '
That day shall
not come, except there come a falling
away first, and that man of sin be re-
vealed.'
* This gospel of the kingdom shall be
preached in all the world for a witness
unto all nations ; and then shall the
end come.' Matt. 24: 14.
THE FULFILMENT.
* Many false prophets are gone out
into the world.' 1 John 4: 1.
' Thou hast left thy first love.' Rev.
2: 4.
' I know thy works, that thou art
neither cold nor hot.' Rev. 3: 15.
< Little children, it is the last time
and as ye have heard that antichrist
shall come, even now are there many
antichrists ; whereby we know that it
is the last time.' 1 John 2: 18.
'They went forth and preached every
where.' Mark 16 : 20. ' But I say,
Have they not heard? Yes, verily,
their sound went into all the earth, and
their words unto the end of the world.'
Rom. 10: 18. 'The gospel ... is
come unto you, as it is in all the world.'
' The gospel . . . which was preached
to every creature which is under heav-
en.' Col. 1; 6, 23.
286
'
SECOND COMING OF CHRIST.
It may be noticed that while Paul, as the chief preacher of the primitive
church, announces the universal publication of the gospel, Jolm^ the disciple
who outlived most of his cotemporaries, is the principal reporter of the facts
which fulfilled Christ's predictions concerning antichrist. When Paul wrote
to the Thessalonians, antichrist was not revealed ; but he said the '
mystery
of iniquity' ivas already working. In the later record of John, its manifesta-
tion is announced.
The language of 1 John 2: 18, is far more forcible in the original than
in our translation. The word rendered time^ is hora^ from which the Eng-
lish word liour is derived, and is almost invariably elsewhere translated hour.
It should read thus : ' Little children, it is the last hour : and as ye have
heard that antichrist shall come, even now are there many antichrists; where-
by we know that it is the last hour.'' The plain meaning of John is, '
We
are on the very verge of the second coming ; for the prophecies of Christ
and Paul concerning the revelation of antichrist, are already fulfilled.'
Now what is there in the nature of things^ to obstruct our belief of the
plain testimony before us ? Forty years was surely time enough for such
workmen as Paul and his fellow apostles, to announce to the whole world the
approach of the kingdom of God. The '
testimony' which they had to bear
to all nations, was not a system of theology, or a long series of discourses
on morality, but simply the message of a long, sent before him to forewarn
his subjects of his approach. Paul took his station at Rome, the centre of
the empire of the world, and from that spot his voice could be heard to the
ends of the earth. He says expressly of the church at Rome, that their
' faith was spoken of throughout the ivhole tvorld.^ Rom. 1:8. Forty years
was long enough, too, for the development and ripening of the elements of
evil within the church. The miracles which abounded during the ministry of
Christ and his apostles, while on the one hand they furnished occasion and
food for faith, on the other, naturally excited a morbid craving for the mar-
velous. Thus while the work of salvation was going on in the inner church,
a market was opened, and a strong demand created, among the crowd of
the outer court, for signs and wonders ; and as demand always attracts sup-
ply, ere long a host of false prophets, false Christs, deceitful wonder-
workers—in a word, speculators on the credulity awakened by the miracles
of Christ, appeared, as might be expected, and as Christ predicted ; and
we might infer with strong probability, from the nature of things alone, with-
out the predictions of Christ or the testimony of history, that the *
mystery
•of iniquity' within the church, kept pace in its growth, with the ripening
corruption of the Jewish nation ; and that the judgment of Antichrist fol-
lowed hard upon the destruction of the Holy City.
If it should be said of the signs we have particularly noticed, as well as of
the others, that, admitting them to have been fulfilled in the apostolic age, they
.are still to be regarded as signs not of the second coming, but merely of the
.destruction of Jerusalem, we reply, Christ certainly predicted oiie sign, and
that the most notable of all, of which this cannot be said, and that sign was
the destruction of Jerusalem itself. It is a very great mistake to suppose that
that event occupied the chief place m Christ's mind when he uttered the pre-
SECOND COMING OF CHRIST. 287
dictions of the 24th of Matthew. His language plamly shows that it was in
his mind only the last and greatest sign of his invisible coining. The princi-
pal question of the disciples was, '
What shall he the sign of thy coming f
His answer was '
Jerusalem shall be destroyed ; the tribulation of its people
shall be such as never was, and never shall be ;' and Hmmediately after the
tribulation of those days shsiW the Sim be darkened, .... and the sign of
the Son of man appear.' The tribulation then, of the destruction of Jerusa-
lem, was the true sign of his coming.
This accords with the prophecy of Daniel. '
There shall be a time of trou*
ble, such as never was since there was a nation even to that same time ; and
at that time thy people shall be delivered, every one that shall be found writ-
ten in the book ; and many of them that sleep in the dust of the earth shall
awake, some to everlasting Hfe, and some to shame and everlasting contempt.'
Dan. 12: 1, 2. Here is a resurrection of many, a redemption of the righteous,
and a destruction of the wicked—in a word, Si, judgment immediately follow-
ing the tribulation that is without example. Christ quotes Daniel in his de-
scription of the tribulation ;
(Matt. 24: 15 ;) so that there can be no doubt
that he folloAved and repeated the above prophecy of Daniel when he said,
'Immediately after the tribulation of those days, shall the sun be darkened,'
&c. The chief and last sign, then, of Christ's second coming, did actually
and confessedly take place about forty years after his crucifixion, and of
course within the lifetime of his own generation ; and if, according to his
prediction, his coming immediately followed that sign, his word, '
Verily I
eay unto you, this generation shall not pass till cdl these things he fulfilled^
and the expectations of his followers, founded on that word, were found true.
V. The nature op the second coming.
It can be proved by many examples, that popular anticipations, and even
the calculations of the learned, are not safe guides to an understanding of
the nature of events predicted in the Bible. Take a case already referred
to, that of the mission of John the Baptist. The prediction concerning him
was, ^Behold I will send you Elijah the prophet, before the coming of that
great and dreadful day of the Lord.' This was written some hundreds of
years before the appearance of John, and doubtless had been a subject of
much meditation and calculation among the Jews, both learned and unlearned
and yet, after John had finished his ministry with great notoriety, and with
the credit of being '
a prophet indeed,' even Christ's own disciples asked,
'Why say the scribes that Elias must first come ?'—a question that shows they
had not yet recognized John as the Elias. Christ's answer, while it unequiv*
ocally settles the question as to the true application of the prophecy, holds up
to view the blindness of the '
scribes,' in terms that are fitted to humble and
warn the students of prophecy in all generations. ''I say unto you that Elias
is already come, AND they knew him not, and have done unto him tuhatso-
ever they listed.'' Matt. IT: 12. Christ also himself, in the mode of his first
coming, wholly disappointed the expectations which the Jews had formed
concerning him, from the prophecies of the Old Testament.
It w^ould not therefore be a strange thing, if it should be found that the
second coming was an event very different from the conceptions of it, whetb-
288 SECOND COMING OF CHRIST.
er popular or learned, which men have gained by private interpretations of
prophecy. Christ may have come at the time appointed, though the scribes
^knew him not.'* Taking the caution of past examples, we will not assume
that he did not come, because popular anticipations were not fulfilled ; but
rather that those anticipations were false, and wholly unworthy to be
placed in the balance against the credit of those plain predictions which, as
we have seen, appointed the time. At the outset of our inquiry concerning
the nature of the second coming, we are bound to take for granted that it was
an event which, though it may not have been recognized by external histori-
ans, was not inconsistent with the true history of the external events which
followed the destruction of Jerusalem.
This assumption leads us at once to the general conclusion—that the sec-
ond coming w^as an event in the spiritual^ and not in the natu7xd world.—
Let us see, then, if Christ's own language does not warrant and require this
conclusion. Before his description of his coming, in the 24th of Mathew^,
he speaks particularly of the onode of it, and cautions his disciples against
delusion in relation to it, thus :
'
If they shall say to you. Behold he is in the
desert ;
go not forth : Behold, he is in the secret chambers ; beheve it not.
^or as the lightning cometli out of the east^ and shineth even unto the west
80 shall also the coming of the Son of man he.^ Matt. 24: 26, 27. The
contrast here presented, is evidently that between the limitedpresence of the
impostors that were to be sought for in the desert and secret chambers, and
the extended presence of the Son of man in his coming. He was to be looked
for, not as a material and circumscribed body, but as an all-pervading es-
sence ; not to be found by searching here or there, but to be seen every
where. And this is the very distinction between hodily and spiritual pres-
ence. Says Paul, 'Though I be absent in the flesh, yet I am with you in
the spirit., joying and beholding your order."* Col. 2: 5. Here we have the
omnipresence of the spirit in contrast with the limited presence of the mate-
rial form. Christ's caution, then, amounts to this :
''My coming ivill be in
that wo7'ld where lean be like the lightning, omniptresent—the world of soids.^
This exposition of Matt. 24: 26, 27, is fully confirmed by a parallel pas-
sage in Luke 17: 20—24. This same comparison of Christ's coming, to the
lightning, is there introduced thus :
' When he was demanded of the Phari-
sees, when the kingdom of God should come, he answered them, and said,
The kingdom of God cometh not with observation; [i. e. in such a manner as
to be observed ivith the eyes;'] neither shall they say, Lo here! or, Lo there!
for, behold, the Idngdom of God is within you."* Putting these passages
together, (and they clearly belong together,) we see that Christ did not teach
that his coming would be like the Hghtning in respect to outward visibility,
but simply in respect to its extended presence. That presence was to be
looked for in the kingdom that is within. It is manifest then that Christ's pre-
dictions in the 24th of Matthew, figurative and mystical as they are, are ac-
companied by such explanations and cautions as leave no reasonable excuse
for the error of those who understand them in a Hteral and material sense,
and look for liis coming in the outward world.
If we bear in mind the theory with which we commenced, viz., that the
SECOND COMING OF CHRIST. 280
judgment of the second coming ivas for the suhjects of the first gospel, we
shall see there was a necessity that the principal sphere of its manifestation
should be in the spiritual world. That evil generation, which grew ripe in
iniquity, under the ministry of John and of Christ, and on which Christ de-
clared should come all the righteous blood shed from the foundation of the
world, the crucifiers of Christ and the persecutors of the church at Jerusalem,
had doubtless chiefly passed away, before the destruction of Jerusalem. So
also had by far the greater part of the righteous followers of Christ. More-
over there is evidence that a large proportion of the subjects of the first gos-
pel, were the spirits of the previous dead. 1 Peter 4: 6. V-Bcrffiat nearly all
the principal actors in the drama Avhich terminated in the second coming, were
already wdthin the veil, and there, of course, was the fitting place for the
denouement. A remnant, it is true, both of the believers, and the rejecters
of Christ in his first coming, remained on earth, and also a whole generation
of their descendants, to whom in a secondary manner the judgment of the
second coming pertained. But as the spiritual world was nevertheless the
main scene of action, the appropriate commencement of the judgment to this
secondary remnant, was a summons to that scene ; and that summons, to the
righteous was the instantaneous change from a mortal to an immortal state,
by which they were introduced to the personal presence of the Lord ; to the
wicked, it was death, by the sword, pestilence and famine.
But here let it be observed by way of caution, that in placing the second
coming in the spiritual and not in the natural world, we give no place to that
foolish unbelief which conceives of nothing but imsubstantial and shadowy
existences and events, as pertaining to that world. To some minds, we may
seem to belittle the glorious appearing of Christ, by referring it to the world
of souls instead of the world of bodies ; for it is fashionable to regard things
spiritual and invisible, as little more than things visionary and poetical. But
in our philosophy, mind is more truly a substantial entity than matter, and
there is less of poetical nothingness in the spiritual than in the natural world.
With these views, if we would magnify the coming of the Lord, we must re-
fer it to a spiritual sphere. We measure the greatness of the event thus:
As the body is to the soul, so was the aivful overthrow of Jerusalem to the
second coming of Christ, The slaughter of eleven hundred thousand Jews,
was the bodily representative, the visible and inferior index, of that spiritual
judgment in which '
the kings of the earth, and the great men, and the rich
men ; and the chief captains and the mighty men, and every bondman and
every freeman, hid themselves in the dens and rocks of the mountains, and
said to the mountains. Fall on us, and hide us from the face of him that sit-
teth on the throne, and from the wrath of the Lamb; for the gi-eat day of his
wrath is come.'
It will be objected to these views of the spirituality of Christ's second com-
ing, that the prediction was, '
every eye. shall see him."^ Rev. 1: 7. We may
answer this objection in three ways
1. By referring to the circumstances and context of the prediction. John
is addressing the churches; and after speaking of the grace and glory which
Christ had conferred on them, he says
—' Behold, he cometh with clouds \
2^ SECOKD COMTKQ GP CllIllST.
and every eye shall see him.'' This is naturally to be interpreted as a glon*
ous promise to those whom he addressed; as if he had said, '
Christ has washed
tis from our sins, and has made us kings and priests, now he is comingper^
sonally^ and we shall all see him."* He adds, 'and they also which pierced
him / which implies that the wieked were not included in the preceding
statement.
2. The language of John is necessarily limited by the nature of the sub^
ject concerning which he speaks ; and since Christ w^as a spiritual and not a
material being, the meaning of the apostle must be, '
every spiritual eye
shall see him.' The nature even of Christ's hody^ after his resurrection, was
such that his appearance to his disciples, is in all cases described in the very
terms that are used in relation to appearances of angels. When they were
assembled together, and the 'doors were shut,^ suddenly he 'stood in their
midst ;' and in hke manner he '
vanished out of their sight.'' When he
walked with them, 'their eyes were holden and they knew him not.'' In sev-
eral instances he is said to have 'appeared to them f and when he ascended
up, 'behold tivo men stood by them in white apparel*'' (See Mark 16: 9—14,
Luke 24: 16, 31, 36, John 20: 18—26, 21: 1, Acts 1: 10.) In all this
it is evident that Christ, after his resurrection, had the nature of angels ;
and the perceptions of those who saw him were not natural, but spirituaL
His appearance was, in proper language, a vision^ and none saw him but
those whose spiritual eyes were opened. Stephen 'being full of the Holy
Ghost, saw Jesus standing at the right hand of God ;' (Acts 7: 55 ;) and
he saw him because he was full of the Holy Ghost, and not with liis natural
eyes, for the others saw nothing. So Paul saw Jesus Christ and talked with
him, when those that were with him saw no man, and heard not the voice.
(See and compare Acts 9: 7, 22: 9, 18, 1 Cor. 9: 1.) John, also, on the
isle of Patmos, was 'in the spirif when he saw the Lord. (See Rev. 1: 10.)
There is no evidence that Jesus Christ has ever been seen by any natural
eye since his resurrection. Indeed he expressly declared on the eve of his
crucifixion, ' The world seeth me no more. ^ When therefore John asserted
that every eye should see him, he must have had in his mind the limitation
which the nature. of Christ, and this declaration required.*
3. There is a sense, in which it may truly be said that every eye did see'
* There are one or two facts in the account of Christ's intercourse with his disciples
after his resurrection, which seem to militate with, orat least perplex, these views. It is
recorded that the disciples handled hhn as though hishody was material, and that he said
of himself, '
A spirit hath not flesh and bones as ye see me have ;'
and that he ate ma-
terial food. But these facts must not be suffered to countervail the positive evidence we
have that his body was spiritual. They certainly handled no other body than that which
entered a room when the door was shut and afterwards vanished out of their sight. These
acts are inconsistent with the nature of a material body. Whereas the act of eating" ma-
terial food is not necessarily inconsistent with the nature of a spiritual body. Nor does
the fact that he had^esA and bones imply that his body was material ; but simply that he
had a body, and was not as they supposed, an unsubstantial grhost. That body was the
same in form as it was before his crucifixion, as was proved by the disciples handling
him; but it certainly was not the same in nature. Mortal had put on immortality; and
that change, as Paul describes it in 1 Cor. 15, makes the very difference between the
natural and the spiritual body. Now we insist that a spiritual body is not perceivable
by the natural senses, or at any rate, by the natural action of the natural senses ; and
therefore that the disciples' eight and handling of Jesus was supernatural, or spiritual.
• SECOND OOMINQ OV CHRIST. 291
CJhrist, after the destruction of Jerusalem. He came at the beginning,
preaching the approach of the reig7i of Crod—that kingdom of heaven Avhich
had been predicted as about to break in pieces and consume all other king-
doms. Of that kingdom he claimed to be the sovereign. Before Pontius Pilate
he confessed himself a king ; and to the high priest of Israel he declared,
^ Hereafter ye shall see the Son of man sitting at the riglvt hand of power.''
Yet his title to the throne of the world was not practically asserted and man-
ifested in his first coming. He came to preach and heal and suffer—not to
reign. After his resurrection, he said to his disciples, 'All power in heaven
and on earth., is given unto me ;^ and they thereafter proclaimed him the
royal Son of Ood, Still, through the whole period of the apostoKc age, \m
sovereignty was not manifested to the world. Stephen saw him on the throne,
and behevers knew that he was king ; but the world still denied .and despised
his claim. It was reserved for the awful period of his second coming, to
make the world know its master. The testimony of his claim had gone ' into
all the world for a witness unto all nations.* Pie had proclaimed that within
the age of one generation, he would come and prove that claim, by destroy-
ing Jerusalem and dashing in pieces the Jewish nation. The report of that
proclamation had gone with the gospel into all the world. Thus the destruc-
tion of Jerusalem was the appointed sign and proof of his sovereignty. It
was as if he had said in his first coming, '
For the present, imagine, if you
will, that I am a boasting impostor ; but when you see this temple, city, and
nation swept with the besom of destruction, then know that I am King.^
That tremendous event came to pass at the time appointed ; the sign he gave
the world, appeared ; and all nations were compelled to see ' the Son of man
sitting on the right hand of power.' Thus it may be said that every eye saw
iiim, and every heart knew by a sure token, that to him it was given to rule
the nations with a rod of iron, and dash them in pieces like a potter's vessel.
The destruction of Jerusalem was the most public event that ever happened;
and in that, all the tribes of the earth saw and trembled at the majesty of
the Son of God.*
The word of the angels at the ascension of Christ, * This same Jesus which
is taken up from you into heaven, shall so come in like manner as ye have
seen him go into heaven,' (Acts 1: 11,) is sometimes urged as an objection
* If any one objects that the^e views are not sustained by the testimony of history, it
may be answered, in the first place, that the lii?ht of history on the remarkable period
immediately following- the destruction of Jerusalem, is little better than total darkness.
The predictions of the Bible are a safe4' guide through the confusion of that period than
any external history. Secondly, it is hard4y to be expected that the world's historians,
should confess the world's convictions in such a case. All nations might have watched
the issue that was made up between Jesus and the Jews in respect to his title to their
throne; and might have seen the decision with a shuddering conviction of the truth and
righteousness of his claim; and yet the conviction might have been so repressed and con-
cealed, that unbelief, like a returning wave, immediately rolled over the world's heart
agai», and swept trom its memory and its history every trace of its momentary pang of
faith. Thirdly, there is evidence in history, of some of the effects produced by the con^
viction which was wrought by the destruction of Jerusalem. Adam Clarke says, —'It
is worth serious observation, that the Christian religion spread and prevailed mightily
after this period ; and nothing contributed more to the success of the gospel, than the
destruction of Jerusalem happening in the very time and manner, and with the very cir'^
curnstancGS so particularly foretold by our Lord.' Clarke s Cojjimcntary on Matt. 24: 31,
#
292 SECOND COMING OF CIIIIIST.
to the theory of the second coming which we have presented. But it may
more properly be regarded as a decisive objection to the popular expectation
oi2ipd>lic personal advent, visible to the world. For as we have seen, his
nature was that of angels after his resurrection, and his ascension was in the
angehc world, as was shown by the presence of the angels who uttered the
above declaration. Moreover, he ascended, not in the view of assembled na-
tions, but in the presence of a few of his disciples. I^he event was of a very
private nature ; and, according to the word of the angels, his subsequent
coming was to be equally private.
It must not be supposed, that in maintaining that the second coming took
plaice in the spiritual, and not in the natural world, we deny an actual ijer-
sonal appearing to behevers on earth. We hold that together with that
spiritual presence, which was like the lightning, and that presence of power
by which he startled the nations, there was also a personal appearing on the
one hand to the whole spiritual world ; and on the other, to the few believers
who remained on earth. As he ascended, so he descended. As he ascended
only in the presence of his friends, so he descended only in the presence of
his friends. As he ascended in the angehc world, so he descended in the
angehc world. As unbehevers knew nothing of his ascension, so unbelievers
knew nothing of his descent. He entered the house of this world '
like a
thief,' unseen by the world, and took the goods he sought, viz., the few be-
lievers that remained looking for him, and departed leaving the world asleep.
The abduction of a few despised individuals Avas not likely to excite much at-
tention in that time of turbulence and slaughter. The silence of history,
only proves that Christ came as he ascended, and as he predicted. Hike a thief
in the night.
'^
The private nature of the second coming is clearly illustrated by the par-
able of the ten virgins. Matt. 25: 1—12. That parable occurs immediately
after the description of the second coming in the 24th chapter. ' Then,'
says Christ, ' shall the kingdom of heaven be likened unto ten virgins,' &c.
We suppose the virgins to represent the primitive church, and the briclegroom's
coming the second advent. And how did the bridegroom come ? Not as
many seem to suppose, at mid-day ; not even in the sight of all who w^ent
forth to meet him ; but ' at midnight the cry was made,' and not only the
world, but the foolish virgins, missed the sight of him. He appeared only
to them that were ready.
VI. Practical bearings of tub preceding views.
A mere theory, however magnificent, is not to be accounted of much value
unless it is available for the increase of godliness, and tlie fartherance of sal-
vation ; and it w^ould be unworthy of a wise and benevolent man, to broach
and insist upon doctrines tending to unsettle the foundations of ancient opin-
ions, unless he is persuaded that those doctrines are not only true, but prac-
tically profitable and necessary. Under such a persuasion, the preceding
views have been presented ; and we are prepared to answer those who may
be disposed to ask concerning them. What good jmrjjose will be effected by
eyitertaining and promulgating them ^
1. Faith in the word of God will he increased. Many facts might be
SECOND COMING OF CHRIST. 29B
presented, showing that the twenty-fourth chapter of Matthew, flatly contra*
dieted, perverted and suppressed as it is, by the tradition of the elders, has
made many infidels, and greatly embarrassed and weakened the faith of
many believers. Common sense will see and murmur at the contradiction
between popular belief and the plain declarations of Christ, concerning the
time of his second coming, in spite of all the ingenuity of commentators ;
and such murmurings make way for infidelity. The vicAvs we have presen-
ted, harmonize those plain declarations with the facts of history ; and so con-
vert common sense from an enemy to an ally of faith. So far as the Bible
is concerned, simplicity of interpretation is essential to that simplicity of
heart, which is the 'good ground' for the '
good seed.' Faith withers and
dies in the shade of artificial and labored explanations. The common belief
concerning the second coming, makes such explanations absolutely necessary,
not only in the twenty-fourth of Matthew, but throughout the New Testament.
Three or four different '
second comings' must be conjured up, without a pre-
tense of authority, to meet and dispose of the inconvenient texts which are
constantly occurring in the Evangelists and the Epistles ; and even then,
some passages are found that are utterly unmanageable. Now all this
trouble, with its evil tendencies and consequences, is saved by believing the
testimony of God in its most simple and obvious sense—keeping both eyes
on that testimony, instead of looking that way with one eye, and toward
human history and tradition with the other.
2. A clear vieiv will he obtained of our oivn true position. So long as
the first and second judgments are confounded, and the second coming of
Christ is regarded as future, all our calculations concerning things to come,
are involved in inextricable confusion. Like the first discoverers of the new
world, who imagined the land they had found was the coast of Asia, we are
sailing towards things unknown, mistaking them for things well known. Or
rather, like a misguided navigator, who in sailing from the old to the new
world, should pass by Cape Horn, and continue his voyage toward Asia,
thinking America still before him, we are fancying a judgment future, that
is past, and approaching a judgment that w^e know nothing of. If true
charts, and a correct knowledge of the earth, are practically valuable to
the navigator, so a true interpretation of prophecies, at least in regard to
the great subject of the day of judgment, is practically valuable to the be-
liever. The first step toward an intelligent view of the last and now im-
pending judgment, is a correct knowledge of the first judgment ; and no
man can rightly anticipate the nature of the ' dispensation of the fulness of
times,' whose mind is embarrassed b}^ confounding it with the dispensation
of the primitive church.
3. A knotvledge of our position will modify in many respects our vieivs
of diity^ and our Jiopes. We will propose one or two examples. Of the
ordinance of the Lord's Supper it is said, 'As oft as ye eat this bread, and
drink this cup, ye do show [or preach] the Lord's death, till he coyyieJ
1 Cor. 11: 2(3. Now since Christ in his first coming was a suffering victim^
but Christ in his second coming was a conquering king^ it is evident that an
ordinance commemorating his humiliaiion may have been appropriate before
1294 SECOND COMING OF CHRIST.
Ills second coming, and inappropriate afterwards. If we imagine Christ has
not yet come, we shall judge, and that with Paul's authority, that the
eucharist is still an appropriate, and an enjoined ordinance. But if we be-
lieve that Christ's humihation ceased at the destruction of Jerusalem, that
he was vindicated and proclaimed King of the world by that event, we may
conceive that some other ordinance, more expressive of victory, would be
more appropriate to the present time. At all events, Paul's injunction of
the ordinance cannot be quoted as applicable to us ; for the expression ' till
he come^ limits that injunction to a time long ago past ; and if we continue
the observance of it, we must derive our warrant for the practice simply from
its expediency, not from its authority. Again, '
the last enemy to be over-
come is death ;'
and that enemy was to be overcome at Chrisfs coming.
(See 1 Cor. 15: 26, 54.) Christ came '
to destroy him that had the power
of death ;' and he commenced the war by sacrificing himself. His followers
entered the breach after him, and like him laid doAvn their lives for the future
victory. But the sure word of promise was, that within that generation, at
his coming, the final triumph should be won ; and they who remained alive
•till that time should not die—nay, should not 'slee^^—^but should put on their
immortal nature, by instantaneous change. Now if we believe that the
second coming of Christ is yet future, in our minds the last enemy is not
destroyed—death is yet an unconquered antagonist of the Son of God.
But if we believe the second coming is past, we see Jesus a perfect con-
queror, with death under his feet ; and our faith and hope, according to the
grace given us, lay hold on his perfect victory. This last example may be
taken as a specimen of a general revolution of mind—producing gx-eat en-
largement of hope—which will take place in any one who intelligently ex-
changes the common views of the second coming, for those which we have
presented. The progress of God's general war with Satan, is not to be
measured by the progress of that war in individuals. Victories may have
been won, which we as individuals have not entered into. A spiritual and
vigorous believer will look for encouragement and strength more to the gen-
-eral victories that are already won in Christ, than to any particular victories
«that are won in himself. Hence, when he finds that the second coming of
Christ, with all its train of promised triumphs, instead of being yet far in
ihe future, is eighteen hundred years in the past, he will lift up his head
with joyful hope, and gird himself for the battle that is yet before him as an
individual, with the exulting faith of one who is fighting on the distant wing
K)f an army which has already routed the enemy at the centre.
4. The views we have presented give important information of the present
state of the primitive churchy and of our relation to it. As the church of
Jesus Christ is and forgver will be one, CYerj spiritual behever will refer his
membership to that original church which was built on the ' foundation of the
•apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ himself being the chief corner stone'
:iiiaking little account of the carnal distinction between the '
church militant,'
and the ' church triumphant,' and altogether disallowing the antichristian
notion of a pluraUty of discordant, and yet accepted churches. '
'
Our citizen-
ship' and our church membership 'are in heaven.' Our *
General Assembly'
SUCONB COMING OP CHRIST. 295
liolds its sessions on Mount Zion. It is therefore highly important that we
should acquaint ourselves as far as possible, with the present condition of the
'
church of the first-born.' If we believe that the second coming of Christ is
yet future, we must regard that church as yet ' sleeping'—yet awaiting the
trump of the resurrection^—yet only expectants of their promised thrones*
But believing the second coming past, we see that church advanced eighteen
hundred years beyond the resurrection and the judgment. A hundred and
forty-four thousand from the tribes of Israel, and an innumerable company
out of all nations, have lived and reigned with Christ, through the ' dark ages'
which this world has seen since the destruction of Jerusalem, without division
or apostacy : and whether we regard their numbers or their glory, we have
no occasion to join the mourning of those, who by ' looking on the outward
appearance,' are almost ready to confess Christianity a failure. Our church
^
—the oldest in Christendom-—has been neither dead nor asleep ; and is now
neither few nor feeble. We may illustrate its present condition, and our re-
relation to it, thus :
—Suppose it to be a stream commencing with Christ in
his first coming, enlarging as it runs on its troubled way through the apos-
tolic age, and at the second coming reaching the tranquil level of eternity.
Still it flows onward, deepening and widening as it goes, and at the distance
of eighteen hundred years, it has become a broad and mighty river. Now
shall we, as tributary streams seeking a junction with this river, take a long
backward circuit, and try to enter somewhere before the second coming, or
shall we make our way toward it by the shortest course, and enter where it
is broadest and deepest ? We leave the answer to common sense, and to the
faith of God's elect.
5. These views afford the most effectual means for sn/ppi-essing many
forms of pernicious error. One strong hold of Universalists, in fact the
most indispensable, is the denial of a future and eternal judgment. By de-
monstrating, as they easily can, to common sense, (not perhaps to tradition-
ary bigotry,) that the judgment most frequently predicted and alluded to in
the New Testament, was to come within the lifetime of the generation con-
temporary with Christ, they stop the mouths of those who preach a future
judgment ; and then, following up their advantage, they virtually nullify the
whole testimony of the Bible concerning the judgment, with its rewards and
punishments, by referring it to the destruction of Jerusalem, and the subse-
quent temporal curses of the Jews, and blessings of the Gentiles. Our
theory meets and answers them, on both these points. First, we concede the
manifest truth of their primary, position, viz : that the judgment expected
by the primitive church, came to pass at the time appointed, within that
generation. But then we prove to them that that was only a judgment of
the subjects of the first gospel, the judgment of the . Jews, terminating the
Mosaic dispensation ; and we point them to predictions of another and final
judgment, to come after the times of the Gentiles. By developing the
scriptural division of the judgment into two acts, we can grant all they claim,
and yet prove a /witzire judgment. Secondly, we show, in relation to the
first judgment, that the outward events which they say fulfilled the predic-
tions of that transaction, were only visible signs, bearing no greater proper-
a
296 SECOND COMING OP CHRIST.
tion of importance to the actual judgment of the second commg, which fol-
lowed them in the invisible world, than the body bears to the soul.
Again, our doctrine strikes a fatal blow at all those forms of modern fanat-
icism which have for their basis a testimony, that Christ has lately come or
is now coming the second time. Paul says, ' Though an angel from heaven
preach any other gospel unto you than that we have preached unto you, let
him be accursed.' Paul's gospel was that which Christ preached before him,
and one main item of its tidings was, ''Tlie kingdom of heaven is at hand—
this generation shall see the second coming of the Son of man, in the power
and glory of eternal judgment.' Now Swedenborg preached that the second
coming of Christ took place in 1757—(1680 years after the time appointed)
—and that he was himself an eye-witness of the transaction.* Ann Lee, the
Mother of the Shakers, preached that the second coming took place in 1770,
and that Christ made his appearance in her person. f Many similar procla-
mations have been made from time to time, along the whole period of Chris-
tian history, and especially since the Heformation. The latest follower of
this fashion that has come to our notice, is Professor Andreas Bernardus
Smolnikar, who teaches that Christ appeared in 1836, and appointed him
^Ambassador Extraordinary.' J Of all these we may say fearlessly, as Paul
says, '
though they be angels from heaven, let them be accursed'—they have
denied the word of God. Together with these, another class of visionaries
and impostors, less presumptuous, but equally foolish, may be noticed. We
refer to those who either by pretended revelation, or by interpretation, have
undertaken from time to time within the last few^ centuries, to prophesy of
the near approach of the second advent. The latest and most notable spe-
cimen of this class, is William Miller, who, at this time, is confidently pro-
claiming that 1843§ is the appointed year of the second coming. The in-
telligent reader will not seek protection for himself, or for the church of God,
from the subtleties and snares of these deceivers, in ignorance and contempt
of their doctrines, but in correct and clear views of the great subject which
they mystify and abuse. The protectors of the orthodoxy of the church will
surely spend their strength for nought, in their labors to repel and quench
heresies on the subject of the second coming, so long as they shrink from a
manly and thorough investigation of that subject, and a bold confession of
the truth to which such an investigation leads. We believe the views pre-
sented in this article, open a summary and sure way to an utter extinction
of those heresies. As Christ declared that the day of his appearing should
* come as a snare upon all them that dwell upon the face of the whole earth ;'
so Ave believe the true doctrine concerning that appearing, will finally be
found a snare, in w^hich nearly all the heresies*of Christendom will be taken
and destroyed.
6. These views throio much light on the history of what is commonly called
the Christian church. They prove at the outset, that that church has had
at the very heart of its system of faith, ever since the destruction of Jerusa-
* See ' Compendium of the True Christian Reiig-ion,' p. 162.
+ See * Summary View of the Millennial Church,' p. 5.
tSee 'Signs of the Times,' Vol. I. Tsfo. 12.
"^iThis article was written and published several years previous to the above date.
SECOND COMING OF CHRIST. 297
lem, an enormus error—^nothing less than a palpable denial of the plainest
word that Christ ever spoke—and that word relating to the greatest of all
the subjects of faith, viz. the day of Judgment. It is commonly believed that
the church of the first century after the apostles, was nearly as pure as the
primitive church ; and that its damnable degeneracy did not commence until
the fourth or fifth century. But we see that a '
strong dekcsion,^ to say the
least, commenced its work in the very first successors of the primitive church
and we are led at once to draw a very broad line of distinction between the
church that lived before, and that which lived after the destruction of Jeru-
salem. How broad that line ought to be, we shall best learn by appealing
* to the law and to the testimony.' Let it be remembered that Christ and
Paul repeatedly predicted a '
great falling away,' as one of the last signs of
Christ's coming—that the later writings of John record the fulfilment of those
predictions—that Peter specially characterizes the apostates, as doubting and
forsaking the promise of the second coming, (2 Pet. 3. 4,)—and on the oth-
er hand, the faithful in Christ are constantly characterized as Hvaiting^ for
the Lord. In the last hour, then, of the apostolic age, there were co-existing,
a true church and an apostate church ; and the prime difference between
them was, that one of them was '
looking' for the coming of Christ, and the
other was not.* Now the promise was, that '
to them that looked for him,'
he would appear and take them aivay. So then they that were left after his
appearing, were the apostates who looked not for him ; and they therefore
evidently constitute the first link of the chain which connects the Christianity
of subsequent ages, with the Christianity of the apostles. Indeed this might
be inferred from the likeness of their faith to that of their successors. As
they deferred, and practically forsook the promise of the^coming of the Lord,
so has the church, commonly called Christian, done in all ages since. We
say then, that church is a successor, not of the true primitive church, hut of
that apostate moiety which forsook the promise of the second coming, and
tvas rejected of the Lord ; and its pretense of authority inherited from Christ
and his apostles, is j^roved to be an imposition. Thus, instead of impotently
attempting to hew away such branches as Popery, Episcopacy, &c., we lay
the ax at the root of that accursed tree of spurious Christianity, which has
overshadowed and blasted the earth through these eighteen hundred years
—thus too, we break the arrows of the infidels, who have ever sought to
pierce Christ by shooting at the church of the first centuries. Christ is in no
way responsible for the church that has assumed his name since his second
* The reader will observe that this is the very distinction between true believers and
apostates, which Christ predicted in Matt. 24: 45-51. That parable was framed for the
very purpose of forewarning- ihe disciples of the dang-er of unbelief in relation to his sec-
ond coming-. The faithful servant is represented as watching- and ready, while the evil
servant says, * My Lord delayeth his coming-.' The moral consequences of 'looking'
to?- the coming of the Lord on the one hand, and of forsaking- the promise on the other
might easily be traced out, and shown to be such as would make the wide difference
between the faithful and reprobates. Gibbon, in the note on our 283d page, strggcsts an
idea that is undoubtedly true; and not the less valuable for the sneering sarcasm with
which it is accompanied. The great secret ot the vigorous faith and daring enterprise
of the primitive church, unquestionably is to be found in their expectation of a speedy
Judgment.
3T
&9S SECOND COMING OF CHRIST.
coming. The primitive and now heavenly church, has never laid aside 01*
transferred its authority ; and it never has had and never will have a suc-
cessor.*
7. TTiese views hold up in the sight of all nations^ the ensign of
the Jcingdom of God; and pointing to the destruction of Jerusalem
as an index of the poiver and the policy of that kingdom^ suggest a
tremendous tuarning of the conscque7ices of resisting the Lord's anointed.
Instead of looking into the dim and distant future for the commencement of
that dynasty which shall ultimately supersede all national combinations, we
look backward, and behold the standard of the world's appointed Sovereign,
already planted on the territory to be conquered, and waving in triumph over
its first and bloodiest field of battle. The '
coming of the Son of man in his
KINGDOM,' like the gospel, was '
to the Jew first,^ but it will be ' cdso to the
Q-entile.^ The same issue which, eighteen hundred years ago, was made be-
tween Jesus Christ and the Jews, on his title to the throne, and which was
decided by the destruction of their capital city, and the extinction of their
national existence, will, in due time, be made between him and every other
nation under heaven. As the period appointed for the trial of that issue
hastens onward, it will be well for the potentates and politicians of the world
to look into the history of the trial that is already past, and ' count the cost'
of a Avar with the kingdom of Grod* The destruction of Jerusalem, viewed
as the sign of the coming of the Son of man to assume the government of the
world, gives an awful emphasis to the admonition 'Be tvise now., therefore,^
ye kings ; he instructed^ ye judges of the earth. Serve the Lord with
fear, and rejoice with trembling. Kiss the Son, lest he he angry, and ye
*In these remarks we would not be understood as denjing- that there have been gen^
nine believers in the world since the destruction of Jerusalem. But we bear in mind
that *
the two witnesses' of Christ have been 'clothed in sackcloth,' not in priestly
robes; and we look for the *
remnant of the seed' of ihe primitive church, not among^
those who claim authority inherited from the apostles, but among- the heretics whom
they have persecuted. Our ax is laid only at the root of that ostensihle organized Chris-
tianity which pretends to be the lineal descendant of the primitive church, which in the
sixth century took the name of Popery, and since the Reformation has branched offinto
Episcopacy, Methodism, &c. This kind of Christianity claims inhei'itance from the
apostles, under a will which is said to be recorded in Church History. We dispute the
will, first, on the g-round that the party which is supposed to have made the will, is yet
alive, and fully competent to manage its own property ; and secondly, on the g-round
that even if it were dead, we find on the only record that is admissible in the case, viz.,
the Bible, another will, excluding- the claimants in question from all inheritance. We
mig-ht moreover deny the existence even of the will said to be recorded in Church His^
lory 5 foi' the only warrant we find for the common belief that the first g-eneration of the
Fathers were the commissioned or the commended successors of the apostles, is the
Conjecture of interested historians, founded on very obscure and suspicious traditions.
Our conjecturCj founded on the testimony of scripture, is that these men had *
no oil iti
their lamps' when the brideg-room came; and being left in outer darkness, became blind
leaders of the blind. We find no trace of their commissions in the Bible. On the con-
trary, it is manifest, that all the provisions of Christ and of the apostles, for the earthly
org-anization of the church, and appointment of its officers, terminated in the second
coming-. Christ's commission of his disciples, with the attendant promise, *
Lo I am
with you aKvaySj cveii vnto the end of the \_agc,''] in consequence of a mistranslation of
the last word, ha?^ come to be regarded as a g-eneral commission for all who choose to
preach, even io the end of <he world. But it evidently extends no farther than th^
isecond coming*
SECOND COMING OP CHRIST. 299
perishfrom the way^ ivhen Ms urath is Icindledhut a little. Blessed are all
they who 'put their trust in him.''
SCRIPTURE TESTIMONY.
For the convenience of those who may wish to investigate the subject of
the preceding article, we have collected and arranged under several heads,
references to most of the passages relating to it in the New Testament. A
careful examination of them, we believe, wall satisfy every candid mind—
1, that the expressions, *
the coming of the kingdom of God,' of Uhe king-
dom of heaven,' '
the coming of the Lord,' of ' Christ,' '
the coming of the
great day,' of '
the day of God,' of '
that day,' &c., all refer to one event
2, that the invisible spiritual world was the sphere of the manifestation of
that event ; 3, that it occurred within the lifetime of some who were eotem'
poraries with Christ in his first appearance ; 4, that the precise time of its
occurrence was not revealed in the predictions concerning it ; 5, that it was
preceded by a wide-spread announcement of its approach ; 6, that it was
preceded, and its near approach betokened, by the appearance of many an-
tichrists, false prophets, apostasies and delusions ; 7, that it introduced a
new dispensation, far surpassing in grace and glory that which preceded it.
I. The nature of the kingdom introduced hy the second coming of Christ.
Luke 17: 20—24 ; compare Matthew 24: 23—27, 2 Peter 3: 10, &c.
Luke 20: 34—36 ; comp. Matt. 22: 30, Mark 12: 25, 1 Cor. 7: 29,
Matt. 19: 12 ; also Luke 24: 31, Matt. 27: 52, 53, Phil. 3: 11.
John 3: 3 ; comp. 1 Cor. 15: 50.
John 14: 19, 18: 36, Acts 7: 55—56 ; comp. Acts 9: 3—5, 2 Kings
6: 17.
ICor. 2: 9—14 ; comp. 1 Cor, 15: 44, &c. 1 Cor. 15: 50—53.
II. The limitation of the time of the second coming of Christ.
Mark 1: 15 ; comp. Daniel 9: 24—27,' Matt. 3: 2, 4: 17, 10; 7, ^g.
Matt. 10: 23 ; comp. Dan. 7: 13—27.
Matt., 16: 27, 28 ; comp. Mai. 3: 1—3, 17, 18, 4: 1—6, 2 Tim. 4: 1, 2,
Matt. 24: 34, 35 ; comp. Matt. 24: 1—31, Mark 13: 30, Luke 21: 32,
Luke 9: 27, 16: 16, 23: 28—30. The bearing of this last quotation will
be seen by examining the references following : comp. Rev. 6: 12-—17, with
Bev. 1; 1—3, and 4: 2.
John 21: 22 ; comp. Rev. 1: 10—18.
Acts 17: 30—31 ; comp. Matt. 3: 2, &c.
Rom. 13: 11—13 ; comp. Luke 1: 77—79, 21: 34, 1 Thess. 5: 4=—8,
2 Pet. 1: 19, 1 John 2: 8, &c.
Rom. 16: 20 ; comp. Gen. 3: 15, 1 Pet. 1: 13, Rev. 12: 7—11,
ICor. 10: 11 ; comp. Matt. 24: 3, Heb. 9: 26.
Phil 4: 5, Heb. 10: 24, 25 ; comp. Acts 17: 30, 31.
Heb. 10: 36, 37 ; comp. James 5: 7-9, Luke 21: 19,
James 5: 7—9 ; comp, Heb, 12: 22, 23.
IPet. 4: 4, 5, 7, 17, Rev, 1: 1; comp. Rev, 1: 3, T, 2: 5, la,
2 Thess. 2: 8.
300 SECOND COMING OF CHRIST.
Note. In Rev. 1: 1, 3, we are expressly informed that the apocalypse is
a prophetic record of events then nigh at hand. Bearing in mind this inti-
mation, the character of the whole book, as a description of the events pre-
ceding, accompanying and following the second coming of Christ, will easily
be discovered. The first and most frequently repeated prediction of the
book is thus recorded in the 7th verse of the first chapter :
' Behold, he
Cometh mth clouds ; and every eye shall see him, and they also which
pierced him ; and all kindreds of the earth shall wail because of him.' See
Rev. 2: 5, 16, 25, 3: 3—11, 22: 7, 12, 20.
III. The uncertainty of the time.
Mark 13: 32—37 ; comp. Matt. 24: 36—51, 25: 1—13, Luke 12:
35-40, 21: 34-36.
Acts 1: 6, 7, 1 Thess. 5: 1-3 ; comp. Matt. 24: 37-39.
2 Pet. 3: 10, Rev. 3: 3.
IV. The previous announeement of the kingdom.
Matt. 24: 14 ; comp. Mark 13: 10.
Matt. 28: 19, 20 ; comp. Mark 16: 15.
Mark 16: 19,' 20, Acts 1: 8, Rom. 15: 19, Col. 1: 5, 6, 23 ; comp.
Mark 16: 15.
V. Antichrists, false prophets^ apostasies, delusions, ^c.
Matt. 24: 4-12, 24 ; comp. Mark 13: 5, 6, 21, 22, Luke 21: 8, &c.
Luke 18: 8, Acts 20: 28-30, 2 Thess. 2: 3-10, ITim. 4: 1, 2,
2 Tim. 3: 1-5, 2 Tim. 4: 3-4, Titus 1: 10, 11, 16.
2 Pet. 2: 1-3 ; comp. 2 Thess. 2: 8.
2Pet. 3:3, 4, IJohn 2: 18, 26, 4:1-3, 2 John, 7, 8, Jude4,
17-19, Rev. 2: 2-4, 20, 3: 1, 15.
VI. Intimations concerning the accompaniments, privileges, and glory
of the new dispensation, anticipated hy primitive believers, and introduced
hy the second coming of Christ.
Matt. 11: 11 ; comp. Luke 7: 28.
Matt. 19: 28 ; comp. Luke 22: 29, 30, 1 Cor. 6: 2, 3, Rev. 2: 26, 27,
3: 21, &c.
Matt. 25: 31, 32 ; comp. Matt. 3: 10-12, Mai. 3: 18, 4: 1-6, ICor. 3:
13-15, &c.
Matt. 24: 13 ; comp. Rom. 13: 11, Heb. 9: 28, 1 Pet. 1: 13, Rev. 2:
10-25, 3: 11, &c.
Luke 21: 28, Acts 3: 19-21, Rom. 16: 20, 1 Cor. 1: 7, 8, 4: 4, 5,
15: 22, 23 ; comp. John 5: 25, 28, 29, &c.
Phil. 1: 6-10 ; comp. 1 Thess. 3: 13.
Phil. 3: 20, 21 ; comp. 1 Cor. 15: 51, &c.
Col. 3: 4 ; comp. 1 Thess. 2: 19, 20.
IThcss. 1: 9, 10, 4:13-18, 5:23, 2 Thess. 1: 6-10, 1 Tim. 6:
13-15, 2 Tim. 1: 12, 4: 1, 2, 8, Titus 2: 11-13, Ileb. 9: 28, IPet. 1:
3-7,13, 5:4, 2 Pet. 3: 11-14, 1 John 2: 28, 3:2, Jude 24, 25.
§ 41. STUART ON ROMANS 13: 11.
" It is high time to awake out of sleep : for now is our salvation nearer than
when we believed.^' Rom. 13: 11.
" What is the salvation, which is nearer than when Christians at Rome first
believed ? Tholuck, and most of the late commentators in Germany, suppose
that the apostle expected the speedy advent of Christ upon earth a second time,
when the day of glory to the church would commence. Accordingly, they rep-
resent him, here and elsewhere, as exhorting Christians to be on the alert, con-
stantly expecting the approach of such a day. In support of this view, Tholuck
appeals to Phil. 4: 5, 1 Thess. 5: 2, 6, Rev. 22: 12. Such views, and such a
mode of representation, seem at present to be widely diffused in Germany, and
to be held even by those who are strenuous defenders of the inspiration of the
apostles. But how the words of the apostles, when thus construed, can be made
consistent with themselves, (not to speak of other difficulties arising from
the consideration that they were inspired,) is more than I am able to see. The
very passage referred to, in the first epistle to the church at Thessalonica, was
understood by the Thessalonians in the same manner as Tholuck and others un-
derstand it ; but this interpretation was formally and strenuously corrected in
2 Thess. II. Ts it not enough that Paul has explained his own words? Who can
safely venture to give them a meaning different from what he gives? Then as
to Rev. 22: 12; how is it possible, that the writer, who had just made an end of
predicting a long series of events, that should happen before the day of glory,
one of which is to occupy a thousand years, can be supposed to have believed
that all this was to take place during that very generation in which he lived?
I only add here, (for this is not the place to enter into a long discussion,) that
it is incredible that the apostles, if enlightened by supernatural influence, should
not have been taught better than to lead the whole Christian church to a vain
and false hope about the appearance of Christ ; which, when frustrated by time
and experience, would lead of course to general distrust in all their declarations
and hopes. As the usus loquendi does not demand such an exegesis ; as the na-
ture of the apostle's knowledge and mission does not allow it ; and as Paul has
expressly contradicted it in in 2 Thess. ii. ; so I cannot admit it here, without
obtaining different views from those which I am now constrained to entertain.
I must, therefore, refer soteria \salvation'\ to the spiritual salvation which be-
lievers were to experience when transferred to the world of everlasting light and
glory. And so construed, the exhortation of Paul amounts to this :
—' Christian
brethren, we have been brought out of darkness into marvelous light ; let us act
in a manner that corresponds with our condition. We are hastening to our
retribution ; every day brings us nearer to it ; and in prospect of the reward
which now appears in sight, as we approach the goal of human life, let us act
with renewed effort as duty requires.' " Stuart^s Commentary, p, 487.
REMARKS.
It is interesting to learn that the truth on the subject of the second com-
ing, is forcing its way to general acknowledgment in Germany. That is the
land where we might expect, that common sense and somid criticism would
first triumph over tradition. There the Reformation broke forth ; and there
biblical research has been pursued to an extent altogether unparalleled in //
V
802 STUART ON ROMANS 13: 11.
^ any other nation. Biblical critics in this country and England, are obliged
to sit at the feet of the German commentators, notAvithstanding the rationalism
and mysticism with which they are charged. We apprehend that the free
and even skeptical atmosphere of the German schools, is more favorable to
sound interpretation, so far as mere verbal criticism is concerned^ than the
pressure of New England orthodoxy. We must not forget however, that the
German commentators, when they leave philology, and begin to speculate on
the subject of the second coming, directly fall into the old errors. Their
doctrine is, that the apostles expected the second coming within their own
lifetime, but that they were in a mistake !
^ Stuart's way of disposing of the passages appealed to by Tholuck, deserves
a few remarks. He says that 1 Thess. 5: 2, 6, '
was understood by the Thes^
salonians in the same manner as Tholuck and others understand it ;
[i. e. as
indicating the apostle's expectation of a speedy second coming ;] hut this in-
terpretation wasformally and strenuously corrected in 2 Thess. 2.' Let us
see if this is true. The correction referred to reads thus :
—'We beseech you,
brethren, . . . that ye be not soon shaken in mind, or be troubled, neither by
spirit, nor by word, nor by letter as from us, as that the day of Christ is at
^ hand.* Let no man deceive you by any means ; for that day shall not come,
except there come a falling away first, and that man of sin be revealed, the
son of perdition, who opposeth and exalteth himself above all that is called
God,' &c. 2 Thess. 2: 1—4. It appears from this passage that the Thessa-
lonians were in danger of being led by some deceiver, to believe that the day
of Christ was immediately impending. They were ' shaken in mind and
troubled,' as thousands at the present time are shaken and troubled by the
alarming imagination that Christ is to come within a few months. In correct-
ing this impression the apostle simply assured the Thessalonians that the ex-
pected event could not take place immediately^ because its most important
precursor had not appeared. He said nothing affirmatively about the time
of it, but only negatived the imagination of an immediate coming. His lan-
guage comports as well with the supposition that the event was but ten years
distant, as with the common theory that it is yet future, if we only suppose
that within ten years the man of sin might have been revealed. If he wrote
to the Thessalonians in A. D. 54, as is commonly supposed, at least sixteen
years of the period designated in Matt. 24: 34, remained to be fulfilled. At
that distance from the event, he might properly caution believers in the lan-
guage of 2 Thess. 2, against premature expectations. The day of Christ was
not '
at hand' in such a sense as to make any just occasion for excitement and
alarm. Stuart, then, has no right to assume, because Paul said in A. D. 54,
the day of Christ should not come until after certain other events, that there-
fore it did not come in xi. D. 70 ; or that Paul and the other apostles did not
expect and teach that it would come within their own lifetime.
To justify this assumption, he would probably appeal to the fact that the
* It is worthy of notice that the Greek word, here translated—* is at hand' —is not the
same as that used in Matt. 3: 3, 4: 17, «fcc., but a word of more intense sig-nification.
It might properly be rendered ^ is immediately coming:* while Matt. 3: 3, should 1»e
translated thus— '
The kingdom of heaven approaches.'
STUART ON ROMANS 13: 11. 303
precursors of which Paul speaks—the falling away, and the revelation of the
man of sin—did not take place until long after the apostolic age. But this
is only another assumption. The popular theory that Popery is '
the man
of sin' predicted in 2 Thess. 2, is by no means so sacred or self-evident,
that we must suffer it to pass for truth without questioning. Which of the
Popes has ever exalted himself above God ? The height of their pretensions
is, that they are God's vicegerents, not his rivals or superiors. In opposi-
tion to Protestant conjectures, we can produce positive evidence from the
Bible itself, that the apostasy and manifestation of antichrist, predicted by
Paul, did actually take place within the lifetime of one of the apostles. ' Lit-
tle children, (says John, writing as late at least as A. D. 69,) it is the last
hour : and as ye have heard that antichrist shall come, even now are there
many antichrists, whereby we Jcnotv that it is the last hour."* 1 John 2: 18.
Let the reader observe how exactly this harmonizes with 2 Thess. 2: 3. Paul,
WTiting to persons who prematurely imagined that '
the last hour' had come,
assures them that this could not be the case, because antichrist had not come.
John, writing fifteen or twenty years later, says, '
It is the last hour, because
antichrist has come.' Both make the revelation of antichrist the last precur-
sor of the second coming. John evidently refers to the prediction of Paul
when he says, '
As ye have heard that antichrist shall come ;' while Paul
prepares us to anticipate the testimony of John by saying, '
The mystery of
iniquity c?o^A already work ;^ ver. 7. Moreover, John records specifically
the fulfilment of Paul's prediction of the '
falling away.' He says immedi-
ately after the verse above quoted, '
They [i. e. the antichrists] went out
from iisJ With such testimony before us from such a witness, what need or
right have we to '
travel out of the record' into conjectures about uninspired
history to find the fulfilment of Paul's prophecy.
The premature excitement of the Thessalonians, and Paul's correction of
them, instead of militating with the theory that the apostles expected the sec^
ond advent within their own lifetime, actually confirms it. The Thessaloni-
ans 'were indeed deluded in suffering themselves to be shaken in mind and
troubled by soothsayings, which, like Millerism, represented the terrors of
the judgment as hanging over their heads, just ready to fall upon them. But
the very fact that they were liable to such a delusion, indicates that the teach-
ing of Christ and the apostles had placed the second advent near. Delusion
is generally an imitation or an abuse of the truth. If the apostles taught
that Christ would come again within the period of a generation from the time
of his personal ministry, how easily might their doctrine be made the occasion
of false alarms, especially toward the close of the period designated. And
on the other hand, how unnatural such excitements appear, if we suppose
that Paul taught the churches that Christ would not come until after the rev- r/
elation of Papal antichrist.
The German hypothesis that the primitive church expected the coming of
Christ within their own lifetime, but were in a great mistake about it, involves
worse consequences than the mere denial of the inspiration of the apostles.
If Christ did not come as they expected, not only their teachings were falsi-
fied, but the facts, which he hin^lf had predicted as the signs and imme- Or
804 THE MAN OP SIN.
diate precursors of his advent, were found false witnesses ; for we have seen
that the last of those signs—the revelation of antichrist—appeared while
John was living. He legitimately inferred from it that the * last hour* had
come. If he was deceived, it was because he believed the words of Christ,
confirmed by facts before his eyes.
Stuart ought to know that the true way to save the inspiration of the apos-
tles from the contempt of German skepticism, is, to keep pace with the skep-
tics in common sense, by admitting that the primitive church expected the
second coming within the period of that generation, and then go beyond
them mfaith, by behoving and testifying that he actually did come in ac-
cordance with those expectations.
§ 42. '^
THE MAN OF SIN.^'
Several different explanations of Paul's prophecy concerning ' the man
of sin,' (2 Thess. 2: 1—12,) have been proposed by different expositors.
Many insist that the apostle refers to Popery : others that by the man of sin
is intended an individual person, that is yet to appear in the world. We are
not sure but that there may be some who think that the '
heresies' and ' vl-
traisms' which at the present time are turning the world upside down, are
manifestations of that wicked one, whose coming Paul makes the immediate
precursor of the coming of Christ. These, and all similar theories, are built
on the assumption that the second advent is yet future. When this assump-
tion fails, (as fail it will ere long,) these theories will pass away of course.
Leaving them, therefore, to be overthrown by the natural and sure progress
of truth that is already in the field, we will proceed to set forth a new the-
ory, based on the assumption that Christ came the second time at the end
of the Mosaic dispensation. First, we will state as concisely as possible, the
substance of what we believe about the man of sin ; and then we will give
some of our reasons for so behoving.
Our belief is, that Judas Iscariot was the man of sin referred to in
2 Thess. 2: 1—12 ; that he, being originally a greedy lover of money, and
having taken on him the garb of sanctity and apostleship, became the most
perfect representative of the sin of the world, and especially^of the spiritual
wickedness of the Jewish church ; that Satan, finding him thus prepared,
' entered into him,' and so took upon himself human nature, in]^^[ imitation of
the incarnation of Christ ; that Judas being thus constituted the '
son of per-
dition,' as Jesus was the Son of God, was thenceforward the chief antago-
nist of Christ, i. e., antichrist ; that he commenced his diabohcal ministry
by betraying the Lord of glory to death ; that by his own death he went '
to
his own place,' in the spiritual world, where he became the perfect personal
representative of Satan ; and as such, having made himself head of the invis-
THE MAN OF SIN. 805
ible carnal clmrcli, he exalted himself above all that is called God, and
claimed divine worship ; that the false apostles, false prophets, antichrists,
and Ijing wonder-workers that troubled the primitive church, were his mem-
bers and emissaries ; that Paul, being his successor in the apostleship, and
his reverse in character, was the person that held him in check till the latter
days of the apostolic age ; that after Paul was '
taken out of the way,' the
spirit of Judas found an effectual entrance into the visible church ; that the
consequence was a flood of unrighteousness and damnable delusions ; that the
second coming of Christ followed shortly after ; by which, judgment and swift
destruction came upon Judas personally as the head of the resurrection of
damnation in the spiritual world, and upon all his emissaries and spiritual
representatives in this world.
The following are our principal reasons for entertaining this singular theory:
I. It is certain that antichrist (whoever or whatever he was) did actually
appear within the lifetime of John. ' It is the last [hour,'] said that apostle,
' and as ye have heard that antichrist shall come, even now are there many
antichrists; whereby we know that it is the last [hour.'] IJno. 2: 18.
And again, ' Every spirit that confesseth not that Jesus Christ is come in the
flesh, is not of God ; and this is that spirit of antichrist^ whereof ye have heard
that it should come, and even noiv already is it in the world.^ 1 Jno. 4: 3.
II. It is also certain that this antichrist whose manifestation John records,
was not in his individual person a visible being, but a sjnrit residing in the
invisible world. In the first of the above passages, the apostle represents
that the predictions concerning the one antichrist, were fulfilled by the ap-
pearance of 'ma7iy antichrists ;' which is intelligible only on the supposition
that the one antichrist was a spirit, and the many antichrists were his visible
manifestations. And in the last of those passages, the predicted wicked one
is expressly called '
that spirit of antichrist.' So in Paul's prediction, 2 Thess.
2: 1—12, a single person is first spoken of as the root of '
the mystery of
iniquity,' and as already existing ; but when his ^
working' or manifestation
in this world is described, the apostle runs into the plural number. So also
Christ, in the 24th of Matthew, speaks of false Christs* and ^
false prophets^
using only the plural form, because he is there foretelhng only the visible
signs of the second coming. As Elijah, residing in the world of spirits, was
revealed in John the Baptist,—as Christ, after his death and ascension, was
' revealed' in Paul, (see Gal. 1: 16,) and in all the sons of God—so we un-
derstand that a certain man so pre-eminent in wickedness as to deserve the
name of ' the man of sin,' having previously by death entered the spiritual
world, was revealed in many false prophets and false Christs, in the latter
days of the primitive chnrch. This is the only view of the matter that pla-
ces antichrist where he ought to be, as the antithesis of Christ ; for Christ
had ' passed into the heavens,' and his second coming was in the spiritual
world.
III. That Judas Iscariot was the man, whose manifestation was predicted
by Paul, and was recorded by John, is evident from the following considera-
tions : 1. In view of his general character as a,thief in the garb of an apos-
tle, and of his special criminality in the murder of his Master, we may safely
38
iHfi MAN or BW.
affirm that he was the wickedest man that ever lived ; of course tie best de*
served the name of ' the man of sin.^ 2. The distinguishing title which Paul
gives the man of sin—viz. '
the son of perdition^—points us directly to JudasJ
for this is the very title with which Christ branded him ;
(see John 17: 12; )
and it is given to no other man in the Bible. 3. Judas is distinguished in
scripture above all men, as a vessel of Satan. It is not said of any other
man that * the devil [a diabolos] entered into him.'* Judas evidently became
an incarnation of Satan^^a combination of the diabolical and human natures, in
some sense corresponding to the combination of the human and divine natures
in Jesus Christ^ In accordance with this idea, Patil says of the man of sin,
that his ' coming is after the wbfkhig of Satan/ or as the original may more
properly be rendered, ' according to the energy \_or inward working'] of Sa^
tan^' 4. Judas as an arch hypocrite was exactly fitted to pour forth what
^aul in his description of the woi'k of the man of sin calls '-all deceivaUenes8
of unrighteousness. '^
5. As a false apogtle, otie that had participated at the
beginning in the miraculous gifts of Jesus Christ) he Was the very man,
through whom we should expect Satan would manifest his 'power and signs
and lying wonders.'^ 6. As a traitor to Jesus Christ, he Was a fit instrument
to effect the ' great falling away.'' Thus far we clearly trace the lineaments
of the man of sin in the character of Judas.
IV. The principal objection to our theory which will occtir to tnost minds,
iS this : Paul describes the man of sin, first of all, as '
exalting himself above
all that is calUd God, and as sitting in the temple of God, showing himsetf
thai he is Grod} How can this characteristic be referred to Judas Iscariot?
We answer, it can be referred to lio man except one, viz., that man (whoev-
er he is) who ig Satan's I'Cpt-esentative or incarnation. For it is not suppo^
sable that a mere man should set Up himself as a rival of God ; and it is very
certain that the Pope (whose pretensions have beeti as exorbitant as any in
this world) never Went this length* Whereas we know that Satan, led on
doubtless by imaginations growing OUt of the fact that he is an uncreated
being, has sought, from the beginning of the world to turn men from the
Worship of God to the worship of himself^ and it is expressly recorded that
*The Greek word dldholos, translated devil, iS found in the plural but three times iri
the N. Testament. The following- afe the insttitices }—* Their wives must be ^rave, not
klandereVS^ Idiaboloi,'] sdber, faithful in all things.' 1 Tith. 3: ll. '
Men shall be lovers of*
their own selves, . . . truce-breakers, /aZsc accwScr^, [rfinioZo/,] incohtineht,' &e. 2 Tim.
'8: 3. ' Speak thou the thing's which become sound doctrine l that the aged men be so^
hev^ grave. . . » The aged women likewise, that they be in behavior as becometh ho*
liness, not/al^e nccuBerS, \^diaboloi,'\ not given to much Wine,' &-c. Tit. 2; 3. It will be
hoticed, that in each of these cases the word is appVied figvrathdy to mankind. On one
b^ two other occasions it is applied in the same way, in the singular number; e.g.,
' jesusj [speaking of Judas,] answered them, Have not I chosen you twelve, and one
bf* ybU is a devil f [diaboto^i] Jbhn 6: 70. But whenever the word is used literally, de^
liotirig an evil spirit^—and it is so lised in at least thirty-three ihstances~-it is in the
lingular number. A plurality ofdiaboloi is never spoken of. The Wbrd translated devib
in such expressions as, * doctrines of devils,* *
possessed of devils/ '
the devils believe
and ttemble,' &.c.j is not diabolos, but daimon and daimonion: and Would be more prop-^
fcrly rendered dertions or evil spirits.
It will be seen that these facts doncefnittg- thfe Word diabolos, have an important bear^
Irt^ dh but* views of the origin of evil. They show that Satan is a being by himself,
dirjtibgiiished frdrtl his ttngels |—that there is but ollB Spirit in the universe that is prop^
fil'ly deribiiiiflitcd fHia bfetiLi * "*^
THE MAN OP SIN, 80T
lie attempted to hire the Son of God to fall down and worship him. If then
Judas was as we maintain, at the time of his death and afterwards, Satan
^ manifest in the flesh,' we may be sure that the ambition of Satan for divine
worship was fully developed in him. As the fulness of God dwelt in Christ,
so that he justly claimed divine honor, so ^VQ believe the fulness of Satan
dwelt in Judas, causing him to '
oppose himself,' i. e. to set up himself as a
rival of Christ, and seek to overreach him in his pretensions of divinity. It
is evident that both Satan and Judas, after the death and resurrection of
Christ, found themselves in a desperate case, and this doubtless helped to set
them on the desperate attempt to supplant their great enemy, the Son of God>
by counterfeiting his pretensions and intruding into his church.
V. The special antagonism which existed between Jesus Christ and Judas
while they were in the flesh, is very distinctly marked in the Evangelists,
The motto of the one was, ' It is more blessed to give than to receive/ The
other was a sordid thief. The affair which finally provoked Judas to sell
Jesus Christ to his murderers, was one in which the liberality of the one was
jarrayed against the covetousness of the other. (See Matt, 26j 6—16, com-
pared with John 12: 6.) This same struggle of liberality against covetous-
ness is very manifest in the history of the church after the death of Jesus
and Judas. For example, the effusion of the Spirit on the day of Pentecost
eaused all hearts to flow together, and the lines of exclusiveness in regard to
property were obliterated."~^hus was Jesus manifested. But directly An-
anias and Sapphira appeared on the field, In the full power of artful covets
ousness. Why shall we not say, thus Judas w^as manifested ? Those liars
were certainly vessels of the same Batan that incarnated himself in Judas ;
and if the Spirit of God that prostrated selfishness on the day of Pentecost,
was poured through the human nature of Jesus, why was not the spirit of
Satan, that moved Ananias and Sapphira, poured through the human nature
0f Juda^ ?
VI. Many circumstances conspire to prove that the Judas-spirit wp^ in a
great measure excluded from the church till the last days of the apostolic
age. The transactions of the day of Pentecost, seconded by the myful judg»
ment of Ananias and Sapphira, made an impression which oou^d. not be im^
mediately effaced. Peter's withering rebuke of Simon Magus, also,, was well
fitted to put a check on Satan's attempts to amalgamate Christianity with
Mammonism. At length Paul entered the fteld as the successor of Judas.
Having at first betrayed the cause of Satan, as effectually as Judas betrayed
that of Christ, he was soon found in Judas's peculiar office, 'carrying the bag'
of the churches. But instead of embezzling the funds committed to him, he
refused even to be supported by the churches, though it was his acknowledged
right to ' five by the gospel,' but maintained himself and relieved others by
the labor of his own hands. His self-sacrificing example, his labors and ap*
peals for the poor, and his loud repeated warnings against ' the love of money,'
as being the ' root of all evil,' wer$ agencies of mighty influence to keep bad?
the revelation of the man of siin* As Judas was an anti-Christy go Paul was
an anti-Judas ; and while he remained, there is every reason to believe that
the church was comparatively pure from covetousness, We infer this fronj
«uch predictions as the following ; ^ This know also, that in the la^t da}f§^
808 THE MAN OF SIN.
perilous times shall come : for men shall be lovers of their own selves, cove-
tous,' &c.; (2Tim. 3: 1, 2 ;) —as though hitherto "selfishness and covetousness
had been almost unknown among the saints. Again, ' There shall be false
teachers among you, . . . and ^/trow^A cot^e^fawswess, shall they with feigned
words 77iake merchandise of you: 2 Pet. 2: 1—3. Thus it would seem that
simony and greedy priestcraft were yet, in Peter's time, to a great extent,
matters of prophecy.*
VII. We judge that Paul referred to himself, w^hen he said
—' Ye know
what ivithholdeth, that he [the man of sin] might be revealed in his time.
For the mystery of inicpity doth already work ; only he who noiv \Jiindereth']
will [hinder] till he be taken out of the way.' 2 Thess. 2: 6, 7. That Paul
'
hindered' the invasion of the Judas-spirit, we have already seen. The fol-
lowing account of his interview with the elders of Ephesus, shows that he
expected that spirit would break forth and ravage the church, when he him-
self shoidd he '
taken out of the way .•' —' When they were come to him, he
said to them, ye know, from the first day that I came into Asia, after what
manner I have been with you at all seasons : serving the Lord with all hu-
mility of mind : . . . and now behold I know that ye all among whom I have
gone preaching the kingdom of God, shall see my face no more : . . . Take
heed therefore to yourselves, and to the flock: . . . for I know this, that
AFTER MY DEPARTURE shall gricvous wolvcs enter in among you, not sparing
the flock. . . . Therefore watch, and remember that by. the space of three
years, I ceased not to warn every one. . . . I have coveted no man^s silver,
or gold, or apparel—yea, ye yourselves know that these hantls have ministered
to my 7iecessities, and to them that were ivith me ; I have showed you all
things, how that so laboring ye ought to support the weak, and to remember
the ivords of the Lord Jesus, how he said, it is more blessed to give than to
receive. And when he had thus spoken he kneeled down and prayed with
them all.' Acts 20: 18—36. Now let it be supposed that Paul had said
these same things to the Thessalonians, (and there is no reason to doubt that
he did,) how readily and rightly would they understand him, as speaking of
himself when he modestly writes—' He that now hindereth will hinder, till he
be taken out of the way:' and how easily would they perceive that his glori-
ous freedom from covetousness, was that by which he 'hindered' the spirit of
Judas from desolating the church. In a like strain he exhorts Timothy to
* We find no account in the New Testament, of any system o^ taxation in the primitive
church. All contributions were voluntary. It no where appears thnt the ministers had
Stated salaries. The oft-quoled saying", llie laborer is icorthij of his 'aire/ certainly was
not uttered by Jesus Christ or Paul with a view to cotmtenance the modern practice
of paying ministers reg-ular tcages; for no such practice existed in the times ot the apos-
tles. '
The t)X that trod the corn' was not mnzzled, but neither did he have his peck of
corn measured out to him at stated intervals. The coutributions which Paul labored so
zealously to <rather, and which are often referred to as examples lor modern imitation,
were not made for the support of ministers, or missionaries, hot for the relief of poor
saints. The church charged itself with the support of its widows and other needy per-
sons, more systematically than with the support of its ministers ; for some of the min-
isters, as for instance Paul, were able and willing to support themselves. Though there
is no doubt that they who labored in spiritual things were generally and justly main-
tained in carnal things by the churches, yet the relief of the poor in each church, and
of poor churches, especially in time of famine, was a far more prominent matter of
finance, than the raising" of wages for individual laborers.
THE MAN OF SIX. 309
strenuous diligence in his ministry, and warns him of impending apostasies in
view of his own approaching departure. 2 Tim. 4: 1—6.
VIII. In order that we may understand the closing scene of the drama
which we are investigating, we must keep in mind Judas's relation to the whole
carnal Jewish church, as well as to the spiritual church of Christ. While on
the one hand, he was the head of the false apostles, and greedy worldlings
that were let loose on the church of Christ after Paul's departure, and so
caused that ' great falling away,' whereby the Son of God was denied, and
his impending second coming was scoifed at ; and while on this portion of
Judas's spiritual kingdom, God sent -strong delusions, that they all might be
damned'—delusions, which have darkened all Christendom for eighteen hun-
dred years ; —on the other hand, Judas was also the leader of the murderers
of Christ, the spiritual head of the chief priests and Pharisees, those sancti-
monious mammonites who constituted the Jewish hierarchy, and whose ripe
iniquities purchased the destruction of Jerusalem, and the long desolations of
Israel. On this part of Judas's spiritual body, God poured utter and hteral
destruction. Viewing the horrors of the siege and overthrow of Jerusalem,
as a visible index of the judgment which came on Judas in the invisible world
at the second coming of Christ, we may well believe that Paul's prediction con-
cerning the man of sin, that the Lord should '
consume him with the spirit of
his mouth, and destroy him with the brightness of his coming,' was fulfilled
to the uttermost.* The following words of the prophet Micah, plainly point out
the sin for which God poured his judgments on the Jewish nation; and of that
sin Judas was the very personification. We may therefore reasonably infer
his judgment and damnation, as one of the invisible concomitants of the de-
struction of Jerusalem :
—'' Truly I am full of power by the spirit of the Lord,
and of judgment, and of might, to declare unto Jacob his transgression^ and
* Dr. Adam Clarke, in his Commentary on the first chapter of Acts, g-oes into a long-
and labored arg-ument to prove the possibility and even probability of Judas's salvation,
on the hypothesis that he i9incerely repented, and instead of hanging himself, died of
g-rief. It is a most curious instance of a divine's playing- the lawyer for Satan ; and it
is so gross that it would be utterly unaccountable, were we not apprised by the whole
tenor of the Doctor's Commentary, of his sleepless zeal against the doctrhie of repro-
bation, which the case of Judas is commonly supposed to favor. We would far more
readily undertake to plead the cause of Pontius Pilate, than of Judas. Many circum-
stances give a favorable aspect to Pilate's case. 1. He boldly maintained the innocence
of Christ against his accusers, and did all he could to procure his release, short of a (br-
cible resistance to the demands of the Jewish mob. 2. Christ expressly palliated his
guilt, thus :
—' Pilate said unto him, Knowest thou not that I have power to crucify thee,
and have power to release thee ? Jesus answered. Thou couldst have no pcver against
me except it were given thee from above ; therefore he that delivered me unto thee hath the
greater sin.' John 19: 10, 11. Clarke makes Judas's knowledge of Christ's power, a
palliation of his guilt, as though he expected Christ would exert it and so escape.—
Whereas Christ intimates that this was the very thing that made him a greater sinner
than Pilate. 3. This distinction between Judas and Pilate, in regard to laTowIedt'c,
would lead us to include Pilate in Christ's prayer—' Father,' forgive them, /or they knoio
not what they rfo'—and exfiiycle Judas. 4. Pilate exercised no extra-legal cruelty toward
Jesus, whereas '
Herod and his men of war set him at nought,' clothed him in purple,
crowned him with thorns, spit on him, &c. &e. These considerations, however, are to
be regarded only as plausible grounds of argument, not sound proofs; for the tradition
is, (what credit is due to it we know not,) that Pilate, like Judas, finally killed himself.
But we hold that Dr. Clarke's conceit about Judas, is far less probable than ours about
Pilate. Even Fletcher (whose authority is great among anti-Calvinists) gives up Judas
io perdition. See ' Fletcher's Checks,' Vol. I. p. 404.
310 ROBINSON ON MATT. 24: 29—31.
to Israel his sin. Hear this, I pray you, ye heads of the house of Jacob,
and princes of the house of Israel, that abhor judgment and pervert all equity.
They build up Zion with blood, and Jerusalem with iniquity. The heads
thereof judge for reward^ and the priests thereof teach for hire, and the
prophets thereof divine for money ; yet will they lean upon the Lord, and
say. Is not the Lord among us ? none evil can come upon us. Therefore^
shall Zion for your sake be ploughed as a field, and Jerusalem shall become
heaps, and the mountain of the house as the high places of the forest."
§43. ROBINSON ON MATT. 24: 29—31.
"The Coming of Christ; as announced in Matt. 24: 29-31."
The above is the title of a learned article in the third number of the
Bibliotheca Sacra, (Dec. 1843,) by the editor, Edward Robinson, D. D,
We Avill review it, for the sake of exhibiting to our readers the position of
the learned world in relation to the predictions of the second coming.
Dr. Robinson first gives his views of the meaning of the disciples' ques-
tion in the 3d verse of Matthew 24, notices the predictions in the former
part of the chapter, introduces the whole of the 29th, 30th and 31st verses,
with the parallel passages in Mark and Luke, closing with a sketch of the
parable of the fig-tree, and the emphatic designation of time in the 34th
verse, and then says
" The subject is now before the reader ; and the question to be considered is
Whether the language of Matthew in the passage above quoted, is to be referred
to the judgment of the last great day ; or, rather to the then impending destruc-
tion of Jerusalem and the Jewish nation ? It is a question on which good men
have ever differed ; and on which, perhaps, entire unity of feeling is not to be
expected, until the night of darkness and ignorance in which we are here envel-
oped, shall be chased away by the morn of pure light and perfect knowledge.
It is conceded by all, I believe, that the representation as far as to the end of
the 28th verse of Matthew, and in the parallel verses of the other evangelists,
applies solely to the overthrow of Jerusalem. Or, if there be still those who would
refer any portion of these preceding verses to the judgment day, it seems to me
that they must first show that the 'abomination of desolation' spoken of by Mat-
thew and Luke has nothing to do with the * compassing ofJerusalem with armies,*
mentioned in the same connexion by Luke: and then, further, that all these things
could have no connexion with the * treading down' of Jerusalem by the Gentiles,
which Luke goes on to speak of as the result of all these antecedent circumstan-
ces. This, however, cannot well be shown, without disregarding every rule of
interpretation, and without violating the very first principles oflanguage.
But with the 29th verse a new specification of time is introduced : '
Immedi"
ately after the afiliction of tho«e days' shall appear the harbingers of our Lord's
coming ; and these are depicted in language which elsewhere, it is said, is employ-
ed only to describe his coming to the final judgment. The ^corning' here roeant, is
BHHp.'
tiOBiNSON ON MAM. 24: 29—31. 811
then to be subsequent to the downfall of Jerusalem ; and can therefore only mean
the coming of the Messiah in his kingdom at the judgment day. This opinion
IS perhaps, at ihe present time, the most prevalent one among commentators, and
even with those whose views in other respects have little in common ; as in the
case of Olshausen and De Wette, [eminent German commentators.]
But on the other hand, it is replied, that the phrase ' immediately after'' indi-
cates a very close connexion of this *coming' of our Lord with the preceding
events ; and the Savior himself goes on to declare, that < this generation shall
not pass away, till all these things be fulfilled.' We must then assume, it is said,
that the prediction had its fulfilment within a period not long subsequent to our
Lord's ministry ; orj if it is to be referred to the day of judgment, then we must
admit that our Lord was in error, inasmuch as he here foretold that it would take
place immediately after the downfall of Jerusalem. For these reasons many
commentators have understood the language as applicable only to the destruction
of the Holy City t forgetting^ apparently, that the very tixpression which they
urge against a remote future application, is equally stringent against an exclu-
sive reference to the latter catastrophe;*' [i.e., the expression ^immediately after,^
while it precludes reference to events far distant from the destruction of Jerusa-
lem, at the same time necessarily goes beyond that event.] p. 538.
In his examination of the language of the passage, preliminary to a pre-
sentation of his own viewsj Dr» Robinson says
« The word eutheos means literally straightway, and implies a succession more
Or less direct and immediate ; so that there can be no doubt, as DeWette justly
remarks, that the coming of the Messiah, as here described by Matthew, was
sti'aightivay to follow the destruction of Jerusalem. Indeed no meaning can
possibly be assigned to eutheos, which will admit of any great delay ; much less
of an interval so enormous as that between the destruction of the Holy City
and the end of the world, as understood by us. From this it is manifest, that
< the coming' of Christ here spoken of, as occurring after the downfall of Jeru-
(salem, could not be meant to refer solely to that event.
Our Lord himself limits the interval within which Jerusalem shall be destroyed
and his ' coming' take place, to that same generation : Verily I say unto you, this
generation shall not pass, till all these things he JuJfilled, The language is here
plain, definite, and express ; it cannot be misunderstood, nor perverted. It follows,
in all the evangelists, the annunciation of our Lord's < coming,' and applies to it
in them all, just as much as it applies to the antecedent declarations respecting
Jerusalem ; and more directly, indeed, inasmuch as it stands here in a closer
connexion." p. 540.
The writer then descants upon the word generation^ and expresses the
opuiion that it is to be taken '
in the largest sense, and in accordance with
popular Hebrew usage, as implying a hundred years,' or thereabouts. He
then proceeds
" The question now arises. Whether, under these limitations of time, a refer-
enceof our Lord's language to the Jay of judgment and the end of the world, in
our sense of these terms, is possible? Those Who maintain this view attempt to
dispose of the difficulties arising from these limitations in different ways. Some
assign to eutheos the meaning suddenly, as it is employed by the Seventy in Job
6: 3, for the Hebrew pithom. But even ip this passage, the purpose of the writer
is simply to mark an immediate sequence—to intimate that another and conse-
quent event happened forthwith. Nor would any thing be gained, even could
312 ROBINSOX ON MATT. 24: 29—31.
the word eutheos be thus disposed of. so long as the subsequent limitation to * this
generation' remained. And in this, again, others have tried to refer genea to the
race of the Jews or to the disciples of Christ ; not only without the slightest
ground, but contrary to all Msag«^ and all analogy. All these attempts to apply
force to the meaning of the language, are in vain ; and are now abandoned by
most commentators of note. Two or three general views, however, are current
on the subject, which demand some further remark.
One is that of De Wette and others, who do not hesitate to regard our Lord as
here announcing, that the coming of the Messiah to the judgment of the last day
would take place immediately after the fall of Jerusalem. This idea, according
to De Wette, is clearly expressed by our Lord, both here and elsewhere ; and
was likewise held by Paul. But as the day of judgment has not yet come, it fol-
lows, either that our Lord, if correctly reported, was himself mistaken, and spoke
here of things which he knew not; or else, that the sacred writers have not truly
related his discourse. The latter horn of this dilemma is preferred by De Wette.
According to him the disciples entertained the idea of their Lord's return with
such vividness of faith and hope, that they overlooked the relations of time, which
Jesus himself had left indefinite ; and they thus connected his final coming im-
mediately with his coming to destroy Jerusalem. They give here, therefore,
their own conception of our Lord's language, rather than the language itself as
it fell from his lips. They mistook his meaning ; they acted upon this mistake
in their own belief and preaching ; and in their writings have perpetuated it to
the world throughout all time.
This view is, of course, incompatible with any and every idea of inspiration
on the part of the sacred writers ; the very essence of which is, that they were
commissioned and aided by the Spirit to impart truth to the world, and not error.
To a believer in this fundamental doctrine, no argument can here be necessary,
nor in place, to counteract the view above presented. To state it in its naked
contrast with the divine authority of God's word, is enough." p. 541.
In his next paragraph, Dr. Robinson criticises the preceding views of the
German commentators, very much in the way Prof. Stuart criticises Tholuck
and others in his commentary on Rom. 13: 11. (See p. 301.) The Doctor
proceeds
" Another form of the same general view is that presented by Olshausen. He
too refers the verses of Matthew under consideration directly to the final coming
of Christ ; but seeks to avoid the difliculty above stated, by an explanation de-
rived from the alleged nature of prophecy. He adopts the theory broached by
Hengstenberg, that inasmuch as the vision of future things was presented solely
to the mental or spiritual eye of the prophet, he thus saw them all at one glance
as present realities, with equal vividness and without any distinction of order or
time,—like the figures of a great painting without perspective or other marks of
distance or relative position. < The facts and realities are distinctly perceived ;
but not their distance from the period, nor the intervals by which they are sepa-
rated from each other.' Hence our Lord, in submitting himself to the laws of
prophetic vision, was led to speak of his last coming in immediate connexion
with his coming for the destruction of Jerusalem : because in vision the two were
presented together to his spiritual eye, without note of any interval of time.
Not to dwell here upon the fact, that this whole theory of prophecy is fanciful
hypothesis, and appears to have been since abandoned by its author ; it is enough
to remark, that this explanation admits, after all, the same fundamental error,
viz. that our Lord did mistakenly announce his final coming as immediately to
ROBINSON ON MATT. 24: 29 31. 813
V
follow the overthrow of the Holy City. Indeed, the difficulty is even greater
here, if possible, than before ; because, according to the former view, the error
may be charged upon the report of the evangelists; while here it can only be re-
ferred to our Lord himself." p. 544.
The writer next proceeds to show by examples from the Old Testament,
(suchaslsa. 13: 9, 34: 4, &c.,) that the language of Matt. 24: 29—31,
may be only a figurative description of ' civil and political commotions and
revolutions.' His conclusion from these examples is thus stated :
« We come then to the general result, that the language of the three verses
under consideration does not necessarily in itself apply to the general judgment
while the nature of the context shows that such an application is inadmissible.
On the other hand, there is nothing in the language itself to binder our referring
it to the downfall of Judaism and the Jewish people ; but rather both the context
and the attendant circumstances require it to be understood of these events."
p. 549.
Finally, the writer actually applies the tremendous announcement of the
coming of the Son of man in Matt. 24: 29—31, to a second Jewish war^—the
final catastrophe of the nation, which took place some time after the destruc-
tion of Jerusalem in A. D. 70. The following paragraph presents the con-
cluding epitome of his theory
" After these illustrations, I may sum up here in a few words (he views sugges-
ted to ray own mind in respect to the discourse of our Lord under consideration.
In reply to the question of the four disciples: ' When shall these things be?'
Jesus first points out what was to happen after his departure—the trials and
dangers to which his followers would be exposed. Then comes the < abomination
of desolation :' Jerusalem is ' compassed by armies,' and is ' trodden down by the
Gentiles :'
—all this referring to its desolation by Titus in A. D. 70. Immedi-
ately afterward the Lord would come and establish more fully his spiritual king-
dom, by crushing in terrible destruction the last remnants of the power and name
of Judaism ; and this within the general limit of a generation of a hundred years
from the time when he was speaking. There might, therefore, literally have
been some then ' standing there, who did not taste of death till they saw the Son
of man [thus] coming in his kingdom.' Then it was, when this first great foe
of the gospel dispensation should have been thus trampled down, that Christians
were to look up. * Then look up, and lift up your heads ; for your redemption
draweth nigh!' The chains of religious despotism and the terrors of Jewish
persecution would then be at an end forever ; and the disciples of Christ, thus
far disenthralled and triumphant, might rejoice in the prevalence of the gospel
of peace and love,—the coming of Christ's spiritual kingdom upon earth!"
p. 552.
One of the laws of interpretation which Prof. Stuart and the Germans
most earnestly insist upon, is, that a ^frigid and inept meaning can be no true
meaning.' It seems to us that this law alone decisively condemns Dr. Rob-
inson's interpretation. What can be more '
frigid and inept' than to refer a
description of the coming of Christ to blast his enemies and gather his elect,
to an obscure Jewish war, and the consequent prevalence of the gospel I
This is the old theory of the Umversalists» in a new form. They refer the
whole of Matt. 24: 15—31 to the well known destruction of Jerusalem, and
the resulting enlargement of Christianity ; while Dr. Robinson refers the first 'P""
39
S14 ROBINSON ON MATT. 24: 29—31.
part of the passage (as far as verse 28) to that catastrophe, and the remain-
cev to a subsequent and certainly less distinguished series of transactions*
He has the advantage of them in that he gives a plausible meaning to the
words '
immediately after. ^ But we think they have the advantage of him,
in that they apply the most sublime part of the passage to the most sublime
transaction, which he does not. Both parties rob the passage of all reference
to the invisible world and eternal judgment.
But waiving this general objection, we would ask Dr. Robinson, how ac-
cording to his theory are we to understand verse 27—'As the hghtning Com-
eth out of the east and shineth even unto the west, so shall also the coming
of the Son of man be' ? Does not this describe an instantaneous and omni-
present manifestation of Christ ? What plausible fulfilment of these words
can be found in the history of the second Jewish war, or of the first, or in
the history of the external world ? The Doctor says nothing about this
passage*
Again, how will he dispose of Rev. 6: 12—17, and the chapter that fol-
lows? This is a repetition, almost verbatim, of Matt. 24: 29—31. No candid
man can doubt that the two refer to the same coming of Christ. But in
Rev. 6: 15—17, we have as strong a description of the judgment—Hhe great
day of the wrath of the Lamb'—as can be found in the Bible. If no eternal
judgment, but only civil commotions and temporal disasters are to be recog-
nized here, we might safely engage to expurgate, by plausible exegesis, the
whole Bible of all allusions to a day of judgment, or even to an invisible world.
In the 7th chapter, immediately following this description of Christ's coming,
we have an extended account of the sealing and gathering of the hosts of the
redeemed. This obviously corresponds to Matt. 24: 31, '
He shall send
his angels with a great sound of a trumpet, and they shall gather together
his elect from the four winds, (see Rev. 7: 1,) from one end of heaven to the
other.' Now of these '
elect' thus gathered, it is said (verse 14—17)—
* These are they which came out of great trihulatioii, and have washed their
robes^ and made them white in the blood of the Lamb. Therefore are they
before the throne of God, and serve him day and night in his temple : and
he that sitteth on the throne shall dwell amojig them. They shall hunger no
more, neither thirst any more ; neither shall the sun light on them, nor any
heat. For the Lamb which is in the midst of the throne, shall feed them,
and shall lead them unto living fountains of waters : and Grod shall tvijpe
away all tears from their eyes.^ Can this be conjured into a description of
any deliverances of the saints that have ever taken place in this world ?
Nay, verily ; here is language that '
entereth into that within the veil ;'
and
as surely as it does, so surely it demonstrates that the coming of Christ des-
cribed in Matt. 24: 30, came to pass within the veil, and was to '
many' the
harbinger of eternal judgment.
Our author concludes his article with some remarks on the remainder of
Christ's discourse in the 24th and 25th of Matthew. He thinks the latter
part of the 25th chapter certainly refers to the final judgment ; and finds the
point of transition from that part of the discourse which relates to the catas-
trophe of Judaism, to that which relates to the judgment, at the 43d verse
ROBINSON ON MATT. 24: 29—Bl. 315
of the 24t}i chapter. Now let the reader take his Testament and examine
this transition point. The 42d verse, which the Doctor admits belongs to
the former division of the discourse, enjoins upon the disciples to watch^ be-
cause they knew not what hour their Lord would come. The 43d verse illus-
trates the necessity of ivatching^ by the example of the good man of the house
and the thief. Here certainly is no change of discourse. Watching is the
key note still. The 44th verse is almost a hteral repetition of the 42d. '
Be
ye also ready, for in such an hour as ye think not the Son of man cometh.'
What conceivable reason is there for supposing that the coming of the Son
of man here alluded to, is not the same as that mentioned in the 42d verse
—as also in the 39th, 37th, 30th, and 27th verses ? If there is a change of
meaning here, the discourse is an egregious imposition; for there is no change
of language, and no hint of any change of meaning. From the 45th verse
the remainder of the chapter stands in undeniable connection with what goes
before, i. e., as w^e have seen, with the coming of Christ at the destruction
of Jerusalem. The 25th chapter commences with—' Then shall the king-
dom of heaven be likened unto ten virgins.' This points directly back to the
great event of the preceding chapter. The whole parable of the ten virgins
therefore belongs to the discourse on the advent connected with the destruc-
tion of Jerusalem. This brings us to the 12th verse. The 13th verse is
another repetition, almost word for word, of the 44th and 42d verses of the
preceding chapter. There is not a shadow of authority for referring it to
any event but that announced in Matt. 24: 27, 30, &c. The parable of the
talents that follows, from the 14th to the 30th verses, is confessedly a sequel
to the parable of the ten virgins, and belongs to the same train of thought.
We are sure, then, that all that goes before the 31st verse of the 25tli chap-
ter, is part of the discourse relating to the coming of Christ at the desti-uc-
tion of Jerusalem. But it is manifest that the 31st verse introduces a new
train of thought. ' When the Son of man shall come in his glory, &c,, [this
is the same coming as that which is the subject of the whole preceding dis-
course,] then shall he sit upon the throne of his glory.' Here is a new ac-
tion. Coming was the previous theme. Now sitting on the throne—
continuous administration of government, is the subject of discourse. '
And
before him shall be gathered all nations.' It is not stated how long a period
this gathering will occupy. It may, for aught that appears in the text, have
been the work of the past eighteen hundred years. In order that he may
thus gather all nations, he must first '
put down all rule and all authority and
power ;'
and this is represented by Paul as the business of his whole media-
torial reign. (See 1 Cor. 15: 24.) The separation and the award of des-
tinies described in the remainder of the 25th chapter, is the ^roi^er judgment
and this, in our view, is yet future. We recognize in the predictions of the
24th and 25th of Matthew, two judgments—one at the beginning, and the
other at the end of Christ's mediatorial reign. With this theory, we find
plain sailing through those chapters, as well as through many other regions
of scripture which have long been famous for perils and shipwrecks.
We confess we cannot but be astonished at the pertinacity with which the
churches and their great men keep themselves away from the marrow of the
S16 *
mistake' of the apostles.
truth in relation to the second coming of Christ. The simple idea that he
actually came according to his promise, and commenced the judgment m the
ivorld of souls, immediately after the destruction of Jerusalem, seems to be
avoided, as though it were forbidden fruit. The commentators of Germany
and this country go around and around it, and seem to be ever drawing
nearer to it. How they keep from hitting it, we cannot tell. But somehow
they never touch it. The old ways of managing the 24th of Matthew are all
abandoned. The double-sense scheme is scouted at Andover. Twisting the
word generation is given up. Still the learned come to no conclusion that is
satisfactory to themselves or to one another. In Germany, where skepticism
is licensed, one wise man thinks the evangelists misreported Christ. Another
thinks Christ mistook the purport of his own visions, and misreported the
Holy Ghost. In this country, Robinson finds a dubious history of Jewish
wars subsequent to the destruction of Jerusalem, and forthwith applies to
them the splendid prophecy of the second coming. And Bush thinks that
* the grand nodus of this remarkable prophecy remains yet unsolved.' When
will all this end ? Is not the long delusion of Christendom on this subject,
*
a veil on the heart,'* which mere learning and critical sagacity cannot rend ?
§44. THE 'MISTAKE' OF THE APOSTLES.
It is becoming generally known and conceded, that the apostles expected
and taught that Christ would come the second time and judge the quick and
dead within their own lifetime. If he did not come, as the popular theolo-
gians teach, it is manifest that the apostles entertained and promulgated a
monstrous error, and are to be classed with the Millerites as the dupes and
disseminators of a false prophecy. The inevitable alternative before the re-
ligious world is this : either it must be admitted that the second advent did
take place at the close of the Jewish dispensation, or the credit of the apos-
tles for inspiration, and even common discretion and honesty, must be given
to the winds. An attempt will doubtless be made to evade this alternative
by softening and apologizing for the alleged mistake of the first followers of
Christ. But no apology can possibly be framed for them, which would not
be equally good for such false prophets as Miller ; and no thinking person
icould trust any part of their testimony as inspired, after finding them guilty
of false witness in relation to a matter so important as the second advent.
Their testimony on this subject is inextricably interwoven with the whole
web of the New Testament ; and if they spoke at random here, nobody can
tell where they spoke by inspiration.
That our readers may see the best and the worst of the case which is made
for the apostles by those who are beginning to teach that they were in a mis-
take about the second advent, we will present an extract from Mr. Bush's
* mistake' of the apostles. 817
work on the Resurrection, in which, after unequivocally charging the error
upon them, he undertakes to ' trammel up the consequence.' In his remarks
on the language of Paul in 1 Cor. 15: 50—53, '
We shall not all sleep,'
&c., he assumes that the apostle erroneously imagined that the resurrection
was very near, cites with apparent approbation a sarcastic paragraph from
Gibbon relating to this mistake, (which may be found in a note to the article
on the Second Coming, p. 283,) and adduces the testimony of Dr. Watts
to the fact that '
the Christians of the first age did generally expect tho
second coming of Christ to judgment, and the resurrection of the dead, in
that very age wherein it was foretold.' He then proceeds as follows
"To all this we are aware it may be objected, ftiat it impugns the inspiration
and infallibility of the sacred writers. If they labored under a mistake on this
point, how can they be said to have been prompted by the unerring guidance of
the Holy Spirit ? And if they have mistaken the mind of the Spirit in regard
to the doctrine of the second advent, why may they not have mistaken it on
other doctrines, and thus the church be left without an infallible standard of truth?
"To the objection thus urged we reply, in the first place, that it does not pre-
sent a fair issue. The question is not whether the apostles have erroneously
represented any doctrine which they were inspired to deliver, but how far their
inspiration extended. The sacred writers were made the subjects, or rather the
organs, of special revelations—revelations lying entirely without the compass of
their own unassisted faculties. These revelations they must be admitted to have
correctly and infallibly reported. In the nature of the case it could not be oth-
erwise. The revelations were not their own—were not the product of their
own intelligence, nor required, in fact, their own cognizance. They were the
instruments through which the Spirit of God spake, and we know not how to
conceive the possibility of a mistake unless the Spirit himself were mistaken,
which it is blasphemy to suppose. So far then as the revelations were con-
cerned, the apostles must of course be considered as having spoken with abso-
lute inerrancy. But these revelations, as made to the sacred writers, did not
include every thing : they did not even include every thing connected with them,
as for instance the attribute of time. There are cases, indeed, where the time
of" certain events forms the special subject-matter of the revelation and the
record ; but in numerous instances the event was revealed without any intima-
tion of the time. So also of the precise manner of the accomplishment. This
did not always enter into the materiel of the announcements which they were
prompted to utter. Accordingly, we learn that the prophets * inquired and
sediXchQ^ A'\\\ger\i\y what or what manner of time^ the spirit which was in thera
did signify when it testified beforehand the sufferings of Christ, and the glory
that should follow.' Now it is easy to understand that they may have infallibly
reported all that was actually revealed to them or through them, and yet they
may not have been infallible in the construction which they may have put upon
the concomitant circumstances of the matters that they were to make known.
Otherwise, what occasion was there for the * diligent search' which their spirits
were prompted to accomplish ? Acting as the organs of certain divine com-
munications, it would be natural that they should exercise their thoughts upon
the themes that thus expressed themselves through them. But the judgments
which they personally formed on these disclosures, being distinct from the truths
themselves, may not have been free from error, simply for the reason, that they
did not come really within the scope of their inspiration. The mind of the
318
Spirit is one thing, and their personal view of its meaning is another ; and it ia
very conceivable that we, from having more ample data, may be better able to
judge of this meaning than they were. Who can doubt that John the Baptist
wa« better able to understand Isaiah's or David's language respecting the first
coming of Christ than were Isaiah ur David themselves ? We contend therefore,
that it does not truly detract from Paul's claim to inspiration that he should not
have understood what was not revealed, or that he should have so stated what
was revealed as to evince that he had in some respects mistaken its true purport
—that he should have put upon it a sense which we now know to be erronous.
This he may have done, and still leave the main announcement in its full integrity.
" In this view we are happy to be confirmed by the authority of Mr. Barnes,
in his remarks on the very passage we are now considering.
" ' I do not know that the proper doctrine of inspiration suffers, if we admit
that the apostles were ignorant of the exact time when the world would close ;
or even that in regard to the precise period when that would take place, they
might be in error. The following considerations may be suggested on this sub-
ject, showing that the claim to inspiration did not extend to the knowledge of
this fact. (1.) They were not omniscient : and there is no more absurdity in
supposing that they were ignorant on this subject than in regard to any other.
Inspiration extended to the order of future events, and not to the times. There
is in the scriptures no statement of the time when the world would close. (2.)
Future events were made to pass before the mind of the prophets, as in a land-
scape. The order of the images may be distinctly marked, but the times may
not be designated. And even events which may occur in fact at different pe-
riods, may in vision appear to be near each other ; as in a landscape, objects
which are in fact separated by distant intervals, like the riHges of a mountain,
may appear to lie clos»j to each other. (3.) The Savior expressly said, that it
was not designed that they should hnow when future events would occur. Thus,
after his resurrection, in answer to an inquiry whether he then would restore the
kingdom to Israel, he said, ( Acts 1:7,)' It is notybr you to know the times or
the seasons which the Father has put in his own power.' The Savior said that
even he himself, as man, was ignorant in regard to the exact time in which fu-
ture events would occur. ' But of that day and that hour, knoweth no man, no,
not the angels which are in heaven, neither the Son, but the Father.' Mark 13:
32. (4.) The apostles were infact ignorant and mistaken in regard to, at least,
the time of the occurrence oi one future event, the death of John. Jno. 21: 23.
There is, therefore, no departure from the proper doctrine of inspiration, in sup-
posing that the apostles were not inspired on these subjects, and that they might
be ignorant like others. The proper ortZer ofevents they state truly and exactly ;
the exact time, God did not, for wise reasons, intend to make known.'
" We remark, in the second place, that the present case is peculiar. Our
Lord's second coming and its associated events are described in highly symbolic
and prophetic terms, taken mostly from the language of the Old Testament
prophets, and so framed as to be intrinsically obscure and capable of being er-
roneously apprehended. Nor does it appear that Christ himself distinctly laid
open to his disciples the nature of that event. . Consequently, as the predictions
respecting the first coming were so worded as to be liable to misunderstanding
before iie came, even by the very prophets themselves who recorded them, so the
idea seems entirely reasonable, that the predictions respecting his second coming
may not have been perfectly understood in all respects even by the apostles and
the primitive Christians. And why does their ignorance on this single point-^
819
the time and manner of the second advent—any more invalidate their inspiration
than a like ignorance in the Old Testament writers invalidates theirs ? The
apostle in the present instance discloses the grand fundamental fact, that at the
time to which the Holy Spirit refers there should be a translation of the living
saints. This he has stated infallibly, because he spake as he was moved by the
Holy Ghost ; and how could he make any other than an infallible suggestion ?
But we have no evidence that the precise time of this event was any where made
known, and therefore it was to be expected that Paul should assign it to that
epoch which he supposed to be intended when our Savior said that ' this genera,
tion shall not pass away till all these things shall be fulfilled.' Is it affirmed that
this was misleading his readers ? Then we would ask whether our Lord is not
equally to be charged, in the above words, with misleading his readers ? We
well know by what criticisms upon the word ' generation,' it is attempted to
rebut the force of the natural construction, and make it harmonize with an ac-
complishment that should first ensue hundreds or thousands of years after the
lifetime of the disciples. But after all it is impossible to explain away the native
and genuine import of the phrase. It is only by the most downright violence
that we can elicit from the words any thing but the declaration that the event
predicted should occur, or rather should begin to occur, in the term of the nat-
ural lives of the then existing generation of men, and consequently that the
event, whatever it were, did thus occur within the period specified ; that is,
that there was, in some sense, a glorious coming of Christ at the destruction of
Jerusalem, and the abrogation of the Jewish state. But it does not follow from
this that the purport of the entire series of prophecies contained in the 24th and
25th of Matthew was exhausted in that event ; for he says in the same connec-
tion, in the parallel prediction of Luke, that Jerusalem shall be trodden under
foot of the Gentiles till the tmies of the Gentiles be fulfilled ; and this carries
us over a long tract of centuries before we reach the period of the full accom-
plishment."
REMARKS.
This is an argument on a false issue. The true point of difficulty in the
case is entirely evaded, both by Mr. Bush and by Mr. Barnes. The question
is not simply '
Jiow far the inspiration of the apostles extended^ or whether
they might not have been ignorant in regard to such a point as the time of
the second advent, consistently with the integrity of their authority as inspired
teachers. We freely admit that they were not omniscient ; that their inspi-
ration was limited ; that the^ w^ere ignorant on many points. Eut the true-
questions are these : Did they go beyond the limits of their inspiration in
their testimony f Did they speak of. things which they understood not, and
record their random testimony as the word of God ? Did they bequeath to
the church a New Testament tainted ^vitli falsehood ? If they did, how are
we to discriminate between the true and the false parts of their testimony,
and how can we trust them as honest and safe guides of faith ? It is quite
admissible that they were ignorant on any given point ; but it is not admis-
sible that, being ignorant, they should dogmatize and utter falsehood as the
word of God on that point, and still be regarded as oracles of inspiration, or
even good men. 'A fool, when he holdeth his peace is counted wise.' If
the apostles had no revelation in regard to the time of the second coming, as
discreet and honest men they would have held their peace on that subject,
and their testimony on other subjects, in respect to which they had revelations,
820 ^mistake' of the apostles.
would not have been discredited. It is not necessary that a witness in court
should be omniscient, in order that his affirmations may be received as truth.
But it is necessary that he should confine his testimony to what he knows.
If he ventures beyond his knowledge, into^conjectures, and utters, under oath,
as truth, statements about matters of wliich he is ignorant, the discovery of
the falsehood of those statements vitiates his whole testimony and exposes
him to the penalties of perjury. This is'the very position in which Mr. Bush
places the apostles. The '
mistake' which he charges upon them is not mere
innocent ignorance or private misapprehension, but presumptuous public affir-
mation on a point about which they knew nothing,—conjectural and false tes-
timony before the highest court in tKeliniverse, and under circumstances
which imposed stronger obligations of cautious veracity, than those of any
oath required by human tribunals. Standing before men and angels as the
accredited witnesses of God, they had not honesty and discretion enough,
according to Mr. Bush's account, to hold their peace where they were igno-
rant, but like the Millerites, incontinently proclaimed—'The Lord is at hand'
—' The Judge standeth at the door,' when in fact the second advent was
thousands of years distant, and left on record in the midst of their testimony
to all generations, a monstrous falsehood, fitted to nullify, by its ultimate
detection, their whole claim of inspiration.
The case is not relieved by appealing to the fact that the ' prophets [of
the Old Testament] inquired and searched diligently zvhat or what manner
of time the spirit which was in them did signify, when it testified beforehand
the sufierings of Christ and the glory that should follow.' This fact indicates
nothing like the presumption which Mr. B. imputes to the apostles, but the
contrary—a cautious," pains-taking veracity. It is noi hinted, and it is not
true, that those prophets, in the excess of their curiosity and self-confidence,
pitched upon some random tliepry about the time of Christ's advent, and pro-
claimed it in connection with their revelations, as God's verity. They '
inr
quired mid searched diligently ;' and if the apostles had done no more than
tliis, their credit would not have suifered, even though their search had been
fruitless. But, according to Mr. B's doctrine, they went farther, or rather
took an opposite course. Instead of contenting themselves with inquiring
and searching diligently for the time of the secpid advent, they fell to dog-
matizing and prophesying about it, and printed their fooHsh mistake of two
thousand years «n the front of the New Testament.
Nor does Mr. Barnes' suggestion that ' the apostles were in fact ignorant
and mistaken in regard to the death of John,' relieve the case at all. In the
first place, it is not asserted in John 21: 23, and it is not certain from any
other evidence, that they ivere mistaken in supposing that John would never
die. We have never found any reason for placing confidence in the church-
traditions about liis death. They contradict each other. The fact that he
lived certainly till very near the time appointed for the second advent, indi-
cates to us that he did not sleep, but was changed. But, secondly, admitting
that he did die, the mistake of the apostles in regard to the matter, is not at
all parallel to their alleged false testimony concerning the time of the second
coming ; for it occurred before they received the Spirit of truth—^before they
'MISTAKE* OF THE) AP0STLH3, 321
were sent on their missions as the representatives of Christ—long before they
undertook to add their writings to the scriptures. That mistake is not an
important doctrine, incorporated Avith their ultimate apostolic testimony, but
a fact in the history of their spiritual minority. '^The record ofIt no more
loosens the foundations of their subsequent authority as inspired and infallible
writers, than does the record of their strife who should be greatest, or of their
abandonment of Christ at the cross. But their supposed mistake about the
time of the second coming, is part and parcel of their final, deliberate, official
testimony, and cannot be separated from their doctrinal system without de-
stroying its whole texture. If they were deluded on this point, they were
deluled, not as raw disciples, but as mature apostles ; and the delusion clung
to them to the last. At the very close of John's earthly career, when '
the
darkness was past and the true light shone' upon him ; when he saw and
testified that '
God is light, and in him is no darkness at all,' and that '
who-
ever says he has fellowship with him and walketh in darkness, is a liar
;'
when he distinctly professed to declare to believers only that which he '
had
seen and heard ;'
—even then he announced in the most positive and solemn
manner, the near approach of the second advent. *
Little children,' said he,
'it is^the LAST HOUR ; and as ye have heard that antichrist shall come, even
now are their many antichrists ; whereby we know that it is the last hoiir,\.
1 John 2: 18. Messrs. Bush and Barnes would liave us place this announce-
ment on a par with the '
last warnings' issued by Himes and Storrs just before
* the tenth day of the seventh month :' and yet they profess not to impugn
the inspiration of the apostles
Indeed the case Avould be no better, but rather worse, if genuine examples
of false doctrine could be found in the New Testament, to render the mistake
about the second coming probable. Such discoveries would be no apology
for that mistake, but would simply go to discredit the whole book. If it is
true, as Mr.Bash holds, that the doctrine of the New Testament is a mixture
of divine revelation with fallible human Judgments, then until some method
shall be proposed by which we can distinguish with certainty between the true
and the counterfeit bills, the whole mixture ought to be distrusted. If we
are to judge by the '
mistake' now before us, we must conclude that the pack
of true and false doctrines is completely shuffled, so that it is impossible for
any human understanding to discern between them. When the apostles say,
I
The Lord is at hand' '
The Judge standeth at the door'—' Little children
it is the last hour,'—they give us no signal, by which we may know that these
announcements are personal judgments. If we feel at liberty to pronounce
them such, we may just as well place their doctrines of the incarnation and
the atonement under the same sentence. And then the Bible becomes, what
the neologists would have it, a mere plaything for critics. This is the gulf
into which the churches, with Messrs. Bush and Barnes at their head, must
soon plunge, if they persist in denying that the second advent took place at
the destruction of Jerusalem.
We repeat, that the mischief in the case is not the alleged ignorance of
the apostles, but the incontinence—the presumption—the confounding mix-
ture of personal judgments with revelations, which is imputed to them. This
40
K k/r^
891 * mistake' of the apostles.
i& the head and front of the offense of the Millerites. It has been fashionable
with some who have not been carried away by the Advent-mania, to apologise
nevertheless for the dupes and even the leaders in that monstrous imposture^
The plea that has been urged in their favor has been that ' they are honest
in their delusion.' We are very willing to admit this plea in extenuation of
the folly and guilt of the masses who have occupied the secondary position
oifoUawej'S in the movement. But we are more and more convinced that it
is a foolish and cruel sort of charity that extends the apology to the leaders.
It is now manifest that the men who took upon them the responsibihty of
sounding' an alarm which has driven multitudes to insanity and suicide, and
has spiritually debauched and ruined still greater multitudes, arrogantly pre-
tended to know what they did not know, and presumptuously promulgated
by argument and pretenses of revelation, a foolish falsehood. We complain
not that they were ignorant in regard to the time of the second advent,
(though we can hardly conceive that any one can deliberately study the 24th
of Matthew and remain innocently ignorant on the subject,) but, that being
ignorant, they professed to be wise, and stood forth on the witness-stand be-
fore heaven and earth, under a virtual oath of veracity, with a random tes-
timony in their mouths, pledging the word of God for a lie. For this we
have called them, and still call them, impostors. And if Mr. Bush's im-
putation of false testimony to the apostles were proved true, we should be
obliged for the same reason to call them impostors.
We demand, on behalf of the apostles, the benefit of the good rule of law
that ' every man shall be held innocent till he is jjroved guilty.' Before
consenting to turn them in with the perjured Millerites, we claim the right
to inspect the grounds on which they are charged with the mistake which
renders the lame apologies of Messrs. Bush and Barnes necessary. How is
it made certain that Christ did not come the second time, and accomphsh
the first resurrection and judgment, within the lifetime of the primitive
church ? '
We have more ample data,^ says Mr. Bush, '
and are better
able to judge of the meaning of the prophecies than the apostles were.'
What are these ' more ample data^? Have we any new revelation ? None
at all. But '
we learn from the event^ says Mr. Bush in another passage^
* that the prophecies which the apostles referred to a period within their own
lifetime, included a vast extent of time.' Here is the foundation, and the
only foundation, of the charge of mistake. It is ^tlie evenf that has proved
the apostles liars. No external second advent, no visible resurrection and
judgment, is recorded in the Avritings of worldly historians, as having oc-
curred at the close of the Jewish dispensation ;
'
therefore (say the wise
men) no advent, resurrection or judgment took place at that time, and the
apostles are convicted of false prophecy.' So says the infidel Gibbon ; and
so say the devout Bush and Barnes. Now if we look narrowly at the iiature
of the advent, resurrection and judgment which were predicted and expected
by the apostles, we shall see that this is a very small foundation for the heavy
charge which rests upon it. Christ's resurrection was a sample of the res-
urrection expected by his followers. He was the '
first-fruits,' and they
vrere to be gathered as the general harvest at his coming. Was Christ'^
'mistake' op tub apostles. 323
resurrection visible to the world ? Was it recorded by worldly historians ?
Mr. Bush himself argues in the very work before us, at great length, that
Ohrist arose in his spiri^i^al body and only appem^ed to his disciples—not to
the world—as angels are seen, i. e. in vision. If the fact that there was no
visible^ notorious resurrection at the destruction of Jerusalem, is '
the event'
which proves the expectations of the apostles false, then ' the event' in the
case of Christ proved his prediction of his own resurrection false. The world
saw him no more ; and the Jews, among whom he died, believe him dead to
this day. The promised second advent was to be kindred in its nature to
the resurrection. Christ was to come '
in like manner as he ascended.*
D^iJ he ascend in a material body ? Was the event public ? Did worldly
historians record it ? Solhe judgment was to be of course like the resur-
rection and the advent—a transaction in the spiritual world. With such
evidence concerning the nature of the events expected by the apostles, what
presumption it is to accuse them of false prophecy, because there was no
such physical parade at the period of the destruction of Jerusalem as liiiman
traditions have connected with the second coming and the judgment ! What
folly to make the silence of man a ground for impeaching the testimony of
G-od ! Will Mr. Bush or Mr. Barnes venture to assert that Christ did not
come as he ascended ?—that there was not a resurrection like his own ?—
that there was not a judgment in the resurrection world^ at the close of the
Jewish dispensation ? Do they knoiv any thing about the matter ? Can they
know any thing about it, except by either believing the predictions of the
Bible, or by obtaining a new revelation ? The charge which they have
brought against the apostles, recoils upon them. They are the men thafc
have allowed their speech to go beyond their knowledge.
§45. DATE OF THE APOCALYPSE.*
There is a very simple way of determining when the book of Revelations
was written. "VYe need not consult the dubious and discordant testimonies of
the Fathers and church historians. The book itself contains a decisive index
of its own date.
Christ said to John, in the commencement of his vision
—' Write the things
which thou hast seen, and the things which are, and the things which shall
be hereafter.' Chap. 1: 19. The things which John had '
seen' are recorded
in the first chapter. The events then in progress— the '
things that are'
are recorded in the second and third chapters, which describe the state of the
seven churches. The things which were then future, are introduced in the
fourth chapter. '
Come up hither,' said the voice to John, '
and I will show
thee things which must he hereafter.'' 4: 1. John saw his visions, then, be-
fore the events predicted in the fourth chapter and onward took place. And
it is evident that he wrote his book at the time he saw the visions, from a cir-
cumstance recorded in the tenth chapter, verse 4. '
When the seven thun-
ders had uttered their voices,' says he, 'Itvas about to write.'' This shows
that he noted down the things he saw as soon as they had passed. He wrote
the Apocalypse then while the events introduced in the fourth chapter and
described in the rest of the book were yet future. Now if we can ascertain
when some of the first of those events which were then future, actually trans-
pired, we shall have a fixed date, before Avhich the Apocalypse must have
been written. Let us then look into the '
things which must be hereafter.'
The fourth chapter describes the magnificence of the divine presence. In
the fifth chapter the book with seven seals is introduced, and the Lamb, who
only is found worthy, receives it, and prepares to open the seals. All this
is only the introduction to the subsequent disclosures. The predictions of
the Apocalypse properly begin at the sixth chapter. The series of events
which follow the successive openings of the seven seals are those which are
* As our views of the second coming- involve the conclusion that the book of Revela-
tions was written before the destruction of Jerusalem, this was very generally denied
by our opponents when we first broached our theory. We apprehend a change is com-
ing over public opinion on this point. Prof. Stuart, in a late article on the Apocalypse,
says :
"That it was written under the bloody reign of Nero, or shortly after, is now a matter
agreed upon by nearly all recent critics who have studied the literature of this book.
The exemption of Christian Jews, who are sealed in their foreheads as the servants of
God, as related in chap. 7; (he measurement of the inner sanctuary of the temple, to be
presr^rved from impt-nding destruction, ch. 11:1, 2; the express naming of the city to
be destroyed, as Uhe place where our Lord was crucified,' ch. 11: 8; these and tAhev
concurrent circumstances put it beyond a reasonable doubt, that the Apocalypse was
writlen btforc the destruction of Jerusalem. And if all this were .not suflicient, the pas-
sage in ch. 17: 10, which declares that^oe kings or emperors of Rome had already lal!-
en, while the sixth is reigning when the writer is composing the book, marks the period
too definitely to be called in question. It might easily be shown, moreover, that the
tenor »)f the book renders it necessary for us to suppose that the persecution was actual-
ly raging when it was written ; and consequently, it must have been writlen during-
Nero's lile, for persecution ceased immediateiy after his death."—BMo^/teca ;Sacr«, No.
II. p. 349.
DATE OP THE APOCALYPSE. 325
to bo examined for the purpose of fixing our first boundary. At the open-
ing of the sixth seal (ver. 12—17) we find a description of the advent
of Christ in language identical with that in Matt. 24: 29, 30. There can be
no doubt that John quoted the words of Christ, and that both referred to the
same transaction. But we find it declared in Matt. 24: 29, that the advent
there described was to be '
immediately after'* the awful tribulation which
ended with the destruction of Jerusalem. The events, then, which followed
the opening of the sixth seal, took place immediately after the destruction of
Jerusalem. But the opening, not only of the sixth seal, but of all the seals,
was future when John wrote the Apocalypse. He must have written, there-
fore, some considerable time before an event which happened immediately
after the destruction of Jerusalem. This creates a strong presumption at
least, that he wrote before the destruction of Jerusalem.
But let us examine the events of the first five seals, which occupied the
period between the time of John's writing, and the second advent. As those
events came '
immediately' before that advent, we may fairly anticipate that
they are the very tribulations which in Matthew are placed immediately before
it. Accordingly we find that the first five seals actually usher in a train of
awful tribulations, closely corresponding in order and kind to those described
in Matt. 24: G'—22. The meaning of the symbol of the first seal is not very
clear. But the second seal (ver. 4) introduces the war spirit, corresponding
to the prediction in Matthew of '
wars and rumors of -wars'
—' nation rising
against nation, and kingdom against kingdom.' The third seal introduces
the famine spirit : and in Matthew ' famines in divers places' follow the wars.
It must be borne in mind too that famine was one of the principal elements
of misery in Jerusalem at the time of its downfall. The fourth seal ushers
in the spirit of universal destruction—a combination, of war, famine, pesti-
lence, and every other agent of death. Nothing could more vividly picture
the tribulation which Christ declared should be '
such as never was since the
beginning of the Avorld.' Matt. 24: 21. At the opening of the fifth seal the
souls of the martyrs are discovered, calling on God to avenge them. These
are evidently they who suffered death in the dreadful persecutions which in
Matthew are described as following or attending the wars, famines, and pes-
tilences of that awful time. Ver. 9. In our view there is evidence, amount-
ing to demonstration, that Christ's prediction in Matt. 24, extending from
the 6th to the 31st verse, is in all substantial particulars identical with John's
vision in the sixth and seventh chapters of the Apocalypse. Since, then, it
is certain that John wrote before the events of the sixth chapter, it is clear
that he wrote before the awful tribulations which are described in Matt. 24:
6—22, i. e. before the final agonies of Judaism, and the destruction of the
Holy City.
This fixes the chronological boundary on one side. We know that the date
of the Apocalypse is earher than A. I). 70. The only element of calcula-
tion which we have for the boundary on the other side, is contained in the
introduction to the book, (chap. 1: 1—3,) which announces that the things
revealed in it ' must shortly come to pass.' If it is considered that the
events of the sixth chapter are the first of those which the book reveals as
326 SCOPE OF THE APOCALYPSE.
future, and therefore are nearest in order to the time when John wrote, it
will be seen that the above annunciation attaches first and most emphatically
to them. We may conclude therefore that the Apocalypse was written
' shortly' before the destruction of Jerusalem, i. e., at a time when the un-
precedented tribulations of the final scene were the future events next in
order. It certainly was not written after A. D. 70, and it certainly was
not written long before.
This result is confirmed by many passages in the addresses to the seven
churches. Among the precursors of the destruction of Jerusalem, Christ
predicted a great declension among Christians. '
Because iniquity shall
abound,' said he, ' the love of many shall wax cold.' Matt. 24: 12. Ac-
cordingly John's record of the '
things that are,' exhibits the churches of
Asia in a state that exactly corresponds to this prediction. The Ephesian
church had '
left its first love.' The church of Sardis had '
a name to live,
and was dead.' The Laodiceans were '
neither cold nor hot.' Again, those
addresses abound with allusions to Christ's coming, and represent it as very
near. 'I come quickly^—is the oft-repeated warning. (See chap. 2: 5, 16,
25, 3: 3, 11.) All this exactly harmonizes with the idea that John wrote
in that predicted dark period of the church which immediately preceded the
destruction of Jerusalem and the second advent of Christ.
vi'SajS'
§ 46. SCOPE OF THE APOCALYPSE. #
The book of Revelations, as a whole, is simply a vision of the entire judg-
ment of mankind, including the first judgment at the second advent, the in-
termediate reign of Christ, and the second judgment at the end of the times
of the Gentiles. In other words, it is the filling up of the outline sketched
in the twenty-fourth and twenty-fifth chapters of Matthew. The great facts
announced in those chapters are—1, the destruction of Judaism ; 2, the
coming of Christ to destroy his enemies, and gather his elect ; 3, his reign,
and the gathering and separation of all nations ; 4, the final judgm.ent. These
also are the great facts of the Apocalypse. The sixth and seventh chapters
of that book (which are the beginning of its prophecies) announce the de-
struction of Judaism, the coming of Christ to destroy his enemies, and the
gathering of the elect. At the eighth chapter commences a series of move-
ments among the nations, introduced by the successive soundings of the seven
trumpets. These movements are to be referred to the agency of Christ,
whose accession to the throne is announced in the previous chapters. These
are the transactions of his intermediate reign—the gathering and arrange-
ment of the nations. At the end of the eleventh chapter the sounding of the
seventh trumpet introduces the final and universal judgment. This is the
]plot of the book. All the other visions are bounded by this outline, and
SCOPE OF THE APOCALYPSE. 827
either exhibit the same events in different aspects, or collateral trains of
events occupying the same period. The first and last judgments, -yyith the-
events between them, are the sum and substance of the Avhole.
In calculating the chronology of this great outline, we take, for our first
element, the period of the first judgment. This is an ascertained date—
fixed point on the chart of time. We know, by the explicit testimony of
Christ in the twenty-fourth of Matthew, as well as by the concurrent allusions
of the whole New Testament, and indeed by the announcements of the sixth
chapter of the Apocalypse itself, that the first judgment immediately succeed-
ed the destruction of Jerusalem, in A. D. 70.
The next question is,—How far is it from this fixed point to the second
judgment ? In the twentieth chapter of Revelations we have an undoubted
account of the second jugdment, and in connection with it a statement of the
events which precede it, with a general measurement of the time between the
first and second judgments. We are there informed that the primitive church
* lived and reigned with Christ a thousand years^ after their complete victory-
over Satan by the first judgment, and before the second judgment. This
makes it certain that Christ's intermediate reign occupies at least a thousand
years.
There is no good reason to doubt that the language in this case is to be
taken literally. Prophetic statements of time are certainly never less than
literal. If there were any doubt in the case, it would be whether w^e ought
not to reckon days for years, and so expand the prophetic period of a thou-
sand years into 360,000 years. This is the view of some interpreters. But
there is certainly no authority or occasion for such an expansion. It is in
vain to say that the announcement of the thousand years occurs in a symbol-
ical vision, and is therefore to be understood symbolically ; for, however the
rules of scolastic rhetoric may condemn the mixture of symbols with literal
objects, it is a fact which can be proved by numberless examples, that in the
Apocalypse symbols and literal objects are mingled without scruple. In the
very passage in question, while the dragon, the chain, the key, the bottomless
pit, &c., are evidently symbolical, the martyrs, the Christ, the living and
reigning, &c., are as evidently literal. And the announcement of the thou-
sand years is immediately connected with these literal persons and events.
There is therefore no necessity of understanding the thousand years as mean-
ing 360,000 ; and, without a necessity, the very magnitude of the latter
number is sufficient to exclude it.
It is further to be observed that the statement of the thousand years is not
to be taken as an exact measurement of the time between the first and second
judgments. The number itself in the first place indicates that it was chosen^
as a convenient general estimate. The martyrs lived and reigned with Christ
in round numbers a thousand years, more or less. In the next place, the
vision leaves a considerable margin of events before the thousand years begin^
and another after they end, which are to be reckoned in making up the sum.
of the time between the first and second judgments. It is not stated how
long it was after the second coming of Christ, before Satan w^as bound and;
the complete triumph of the primitive church commenced ; nor how long it:
828 ^ SCOPE OF THE APOCALYPSE.
was before the second judgment that Satan was loosed again and went forth
to gather the nations to battle. These points must be ascertained by other
calculations. All we can fairlj gather from this vision is the general conclu-
sion that more than a thousand years intervene between the first and second
judgments.
We may make a further approximation toward exactness in this calcula-
tion, by examining the account of the second judgment with its antecedents,
in the eleventh chapter. The reader will observe that the latter part of this
chapter is a continuation of the vision of the trumpets, which commences in
the seventh chapter. The final judgment is ushered in by the sounding of
the seventh trumpet. It is evident that the account of the two witnesses in
the former part of the chapter is a sort of episode interposed between the
sixth and seventh trumpets, for the sake of bringing down a separate train
of events, to the point of junction with the train introduced by the trumpets.
The earthquake and slaughter following the resurrection of the witnesses, is
coincident with the events of the second woe trumpet, and immediately pre-
cedes the third woe, which is the final scene of wrath and recompense.
While the period covered by this episode thus manifestly comes down nearly
to the second judment, on the other hand it certainly reaches back to the
first judgment. The two witnesses commence their testimony when the
Gentiles begin to '
tread the holy city under foot,' i. e. at the destruction of
Jerusalem. The duration of their testimony is stated to be '
forty and two
months,' or 1260 days. At the end of that period they are killed, and af-
ter three days and a half they rise, ascend to heaven, and then follows in
quick succession the destruction of their enemies and the final judgment.
So that the ' forty and tAvo months' extend from the destruction of Jerusa-
lem, to the neighborhood of the second judgment. Now we know by our
previous calculations that more than a thousand years intervene between the
destruction of Jerusalem and the second judgment. Since therefore the
* forty and two months' occupy substantially the same space* with the thou-
sand years, the conclusion is inevitable that these are not literal but sym-
boUcal months, i. e., that the days in them stand for years.
We have not in. this case the same reasons for adhering to the literal mean-
ing, as we had in the case of the thousand years. The persons who stand
connected with the period specified in this case are symbolical, as they were
not in the other. And the length of the time given by the expansion of 1260
days into 1260 years is more reasonable than that given by the expansion of
1000 into 360,000 years. It is in vain to insist that symbolical designations
of time are inadmissible. The latitude of the Apocalypse in the use of mys-
tical representations in relation to other subjects, is as proper, and equally
to be expected, in relation to time. The necessity of the case, as above ex-
hibited, satisfies us that the Avriter of the Apocalypse put days for years in
this instance, and in several others, and that he left the designation of time
in the twentieth chapter in literal language for the very purpose of giving a
clue to the meaning of those which are symbolical.
In the place then of a thousand years with an indefinite margin of time before
and after it, which was the result of our former calculation, we have now 1260
SCOPE OF THE APOCALYPSE. 829
years, commencing at the destruction of Jerusalem and extending to the
neighl3orhood of the second judgment. An indefinite margin is still left be-
tween the end of this period and the final scene. All we can fairly say, is,
that at the end of 1260 years from the destruction of Jerusalem, i. e. about
A. D. 1330, the dispensation of the two witnesses (who commenced their
testimony among the Gentiles after the termination of Judaism) came to an
end, and a new series of events directly preparatory to the final judgment,
commenced. How long a period these preparatory movements are to occupy,
we have thus far no means of determining. We only know that the final
judgment has not taken place yet, and that we are living at a late period in
the preparatory era which immediately precedes it.
If external historical tokens of the truth of our conclusions are demanded,
we may mention that Popery came to its height and began to decline soon
after the commencement of the 14th century ; that Wiclif, the acknowl-
edged father of the Reformation, was born in 1324, and that during his life
of 60 years the Bible was first translated, and the seeds of the rehgious rev-
olutions which have since changed the face of all Christendom, were sown.
It is true (whether it has any thing to do with our prophecy or not) that the
dispensation of the Reformation properly dates from the period between
A. D. 1330 and 1400. Since that time the religious world has been in a
state of transition. We believe that it will prove to be a transition from the
Gentile dispensation of legality, to the final judgment.
It must be borne in mind, however, that as we find the main fulfilment of
the prophecies of the second coming, in the spiritual world, so we must look
for the principal events foreshadowed in the Apocalypse, beyond the vail.
Let carnal unbelief pervert predictions in order to make them match external
events, or reject them because their fulfilment is not to be seen. We have
learned, by the lesson of the second coming, to allow prophecy a wider field
of fulfilment than this world.
41
^47. THE DISPENSATION OE THE FULNESS OF TIMES-
"He hath abounded toward us in all wisdom and prudence; havir>g made
known unto us the mystery of his will, according to his good pleasure which he
hath purposed in himself i that in the dispensation of the fulness of times, he
might gather together in one all things in Christ, both which are in heaven and
"Which are on earth; even in him : in whom we also have obtained an inheri-
tance, being predestinated according to the purpose of hhn who worketh all
things after the counsel of his own will ; that we should be to the praise of his
glory, who first trusted in Christ." Bph. 1: 8—12.
It is evident that Paul refers, in the above passage, to a dispensation of
the grace of Christ which was ih^n future^ from the following circumstances.
1. There w^as not in the dispensation committed to him, i. e., in the first and
then present dispensation of the grace of Christ, any such imiversal gather-
ing as he describes in these words, '
that he might gather &c. all things, both
\vhich are in heaven and which are on earth.'' When Paul says in Heb. 2:
8—' In that he hath put all in subjection under him [Christ,] he left noth-
ing that is not put under him'-—he speaks manifestly of the same purpose of
God, as that referred to in the preceding passage, and immediately adds,
*
but now tve see not yet all things put under him.* As he plainly predicts
the full subjection of this world to Christ, and as plainly connects it with ' the
dispensation of the fulness of times,' we conclude with certainty that he had
in his mind in using this expression, a dispensation which was not only then,
but is now future. 2. His language concerning believers at that time, is
obviously designed to distinguish them from those who should be gathered in
the '
dispensation of the fulness of times.' In whom tve also have obtained
an inheritance, &c., that we should be to the praise of his glory, ^Yho first
trusted in Christ.* The intimation here contained, that a special glory be-
longs to the subjects of the first dispensation, implies the expectation of a
second future gathering. Similar intimations, tending in like mamier to set
a distinction between the primitive church and the subjects of the last dispen-
sation, may be found in Rev. 14: 4, and 20: 6. 3. The single expression,
fulness of times,'' will be found by comparing scripture with scripture, to
contain evidence that Paul spoke of a dispensation distinct from that of the
primitive church, wdiich is yet to come. Christ says in Luke 21: 24- ' Je-
rusalem shall be trodden down of the Gentiles, till the times of the Gentiles
he fulfilled.^ The w^ords 'fulness' and ' fulfilled' in these passages, are more
nearly identical in the original, than in our version. Using a noun instead
of a verb, Christ would have said, '
Jerusalem shall be trodden down of the
Gentiles, till the fulness of the Gentile times.* The two expressions then
differ only in that one of them is general and the other particular. Paul
speaks of the fulness or completion of all the times marked out in the pur-
poses and predictions of God ; Christ of the completion of the times appoin-
ted for the Gentiles. Now as that which is general must include that which
is particular, it is evident that ' the fulness of times' cannot come till '
the
times of the Gentiles be fulfilled j' and as the times of the Gentiles are not
DISPENSATION OF TUE FULNESS OF TLMES. 881
fulfilled, it follows that ' the dispensation of the fulness of times' has not yet
come.
The words of the angel, (Rev. 10: 5—7,) well define the meaning of
Paul's expression—-'And the angel which I saw stand upon the sea and upon
the earth lifted up his hand to heaven, and sware by him that liveth for ever
and ev^er, who created heaven and earth, and the things that therein are, and
the sea, and the things which are therein, that there shall be time no longer
but in the days of the voice of the seventh angel, when he shall begin to
sound, the mystery of God should be finished, as he hath declared to his ser-
vants the prophets.' In this passage we find that the fulness of times is the
period when the '
mystery of God should be finished, as he hath declared to
his servants the prophets.' Now as the gathering of all things in heaven
and earth into Christ, was declared to the prophets to be the final purpose
of God, it is evident that the dispensation of the fulness of times in which
this was to be accomplished, is the very same as the finishing of the mystery
of God. When the angel swears that '
time shall be no longer,' he declares
that ' the fulness of times' is come ; and immediately connects with this era
that consummation of God's purposes which Paul describes, appointing its
fulfilment at the beginning of the voice of the seventh angel. From all this
we ascertain, 1, That the manifestation of Christ to mankind, is divided into
two parts, separated from each other by a long interval of time, and called,
the dispensation of the primitive church, and the dispensation of the fulness
of times. 2. That the dispensation of the fulness of times, is the appointed
period of Christ's final and complete triumph over this world, the consum-
mation of prophecy, the denoueymnt of the drama commenced at the crea-
tion. 3. That it is subsequent to the times of the Gentiles. 4. That it is
to come when the seventh angel shall begin to sound. All of these particu-
lars which we have thus gathered from scattered evidences, are presented,
in a summary and consecutive form, in the eleventh chapter of Reveiatk)ns,
John was commanded to measure the temple ;
'
but,' said the angel, ^
the
court which is without the temple leave out, and measure it not ; for it i$
given unto the Gentiles : and the holy city shall they tread under foot forty
and two months.' During this period, the two witnesses prophesy^ Their
death, resurrection, ascension, the defeat and conversion of their enemies,
follow. Then comes the dispensation of the fulness of times. ^ The seventh
angel sounded ; and there were great voices in heaven, saying. The king-
doms of this world are become the kingdoms of our Lord, and of his Christ
and he shall reign forever and ever. And the four and twenty elders which sat
before God on their seats, fell upon their faces, and worshiped God, saying,
We give thee thanks, Lord God Almighty, which art, and wast, and art
to come ; because thou hast taken to thee thy great power, and hast reigned.
And the nations were angry, and thy wrath is come, and the time of the
dead, that they should be judged, and that thou shouldst give reward unto
thy servants the prophets, and to the saints, and them that fear thy name,
small and great ; and shouldst destroy them which destroy the earth/' Rev,
11: 15—18. If the temple of God is the church, which Paul declares,
(1 Tim. 3: 15,) we are here informed that the inner portion of the churei
882 DISPENSATION OF THE FULNESS OF TIMES.
was complete, previous to the forty-two months of the times of the Gentiles ;
that ths outer portion of it remained unfinished during that period ; and that
after that period the seventh angel sounds, ushering in the subjection of
t/iis world to Christ, the final fulfilment of prophecy—in other words, the
dispensation of the fulness of times, in which '
all things, both which are in
heaven and which are on earth,'' the outer as well as the inner court of the
temple, are subjected to Christ. Let it be borne in mind that we have
identified the dispensation of the fulness of times, with the finishing of the
mystery of God—that the finishing of the mystery of God comes in connec-
tion with the voice of the seventh angel—and that the voice of the seventh
angel, according to Rev. 11: 18, mtrodnces tho final judgment. We take
then for our land-mark in pursuing our investigations of prophecy, the fol-
lowing proposition : The dispensation of the fulness of times, in luhichthis
world is to he subjected to Christ, is the day of final judgment. By this
guide-board we are directed at once to that most notable description of the
day of judgment in Rev. 20: 11, &c., and by a glance at the context which
precedes it, we are assured that the direction is correct. That context,
(ver. 4, &c.,) describes a primary judgment, separated from the final one
by an interval of a thousand years and more ; it marks the peculiar glory
of the subjects of this first dispensation, and describes the introductory con-
flict of God with the nations, previous to the universal subjection of mankind
to Christ, which is then described. Comparing these things with those we
have before seen, we find an accumulating confirmation of the theory sug-
gested by the passage at the head of this article. The partakers of the first
resurrection, are evidently they '
who first trusted in Christ,' of whom Paul
speaks, coupling himself with them, viz. the primitive, or as it may be called,
the Jewish church ; and whom John's vision characterizes as the inner por-
tion of the temple—first finished. Between the first and second resurrec-
tion, a period of more than a thousand years is introduced, corresponding
to the forty-two months, the times of the Gentiles. After this a throne of
universal dominion is set—heaven and ea7'th fleeing before it ; which also
corresponds to the gathering '
of all things, both which are in heaven and
which are on earth, into Christ : and to the shout which follows the voice of
the seventh angel—' The kingdoms of this world are become the kingdoms
of our Lord, and of his Christ.'
A further confirmation of the same theory, should be noticed in Rev. 12.
Whatever we understand by the woman of this vision, whether it be simply
Judaism, or the church of the transition period, it matters not. It is suffi-
cient that we know she was the mother of '
the child that was to rule all na-
tions with a rod of iron.' This child cannot be simply the man Christ Jesus,
because, in that case, his mother would have been simply the virgin Mary.
If we regard the mother as a spiritual corporation, we must give her child
the same character, or we mingle things literal and spiritual in the same
vision. As the promises concerning Christ as an individual, are also given
to Christ as a corporation, i. e. to the church, (see Rev. 2: 26, &c.,) we
laay safely regard ' the child that was to rule all nations with a rod of iron,'
lis the primitive church, the partakers of the first resurrection, they who ' first
DISPENSATION OF THE FULNESS OF TIMES. 833
trusted in Christ,' to whom, as we have before seen, a special glory is given.
Now as the inner part of the temple was first finished, and the outer part
given to the Gentiles iov forty-two months, so the ' child that was to rule all
nations,' was at his birth caught up unto God and his throne, and his mother
fled into the wilderness for forty-tivo months. The times of the testimony
of the two witnesses, which are the times of the Gentiles, intervening between
the first and last dispensations, are identical with the times of the woman's
abode in the wilderness. That which precedes these times, viz., the redemp-
tion of the woman's child—the finishing of the inner part of the temple—the
first resurrection—are therefore likewise identical. The woman's persecu-
tion by the serpent, and residence in the wilderness, clearly correspond to
the testimony of the two witnesses among the Gentiles, and the persecutions
they suffered. As they cover the same period, they are evidently only va-
ried symbols of the same things; viz., the continuation of divine testimony
in this world, during the interval between the first and last dispensations.
Lastly, if we look at the vision of the seven seals, and the seven trumpets,
we shall find unanswerable evidence of the truth of the foregoing theory.
When the sixth seal was opened, the '
great day of the Avrath of the Lamb'
came, and with it the sealing of the Jewish church. An attentive compari-
son of the description of these events, with the 24th of Matthew, will make
it certain that they came to pass in the generation cotemporary with Christ.
When the seventh seal opens, the seven trumpets are introduced. A descrip-
tion of a great variety of events, accompanying the successive sounding of
six trumpets, follows ; events which evidently occupy the period between the
first and second judgment. The seventh and last trumpet ushers in the day
of final judgment—the subjection of this world to Christ—i. e. the 'dispen-
sation of the fulness of times.'
The object of this article is to fix the attention of behevers on the truth,
that the Bible describes tivo dispensations of Christ, tico resurrections, tivo
judgments, one of which is past, the other future. These two dispensations,
are the two foci of all prophecy, and should stand in the mind as central
pomts of interest. By confounding them together, men have fallen into error
in two ways. Behevers of the common doctrines of Christendom, see but one
focus of prophecy, and that future. Hence the prophecies that separately
pertain to the second coming of Christ, and the redemption of the Jewish
church, are to them incomprehensible perplexities. On the other hand, many
Perfectionists seem to see nothing but the second coming,. The focus of all
prophecy with them is i^ast. Hence arises much misinterpretation of scrip-
ture, and many moral and intellectual errors. In the ninth chapter of Ro-
mans, Paul suggests the comprehensive idea of God's dispensations, which
should ahvays be borne in mind. Speaking to the Gentiles, he says, '
I would
not, brethren, that ye should be ignorant of this mystery, iest ye should be
/wise in your own conceits, that blindness in part is happened to Israel, until
the fulness of the Gentiles be come in :' and again, '
As ye in times past have
not believed God, yet have now obtained mercy through their unbelief; even
so have these also now not believed, that through your mercy they also may
obtam mercy.' Comparing these things with the foregoing discussion, we
334 THE MILLENNIUM.
perceive that the two dispensations which we have considered, correspond to
the two grand divisions of the human race, viz. Jews and Gentiles. The
gospel of Christ is given '
to the Jew first^ and also to the Gentile.' Rom.
2: 10. As the Jews had an introductory, carnal dispensation, from Moses
to Christ, which terminated in the revelation of the gospel, and the first res-
urrection and judgment ; so the Gentiles have had a similar carnal dispensar
tion from the destruction of Jerusalem to the present time ; and when their
^ times are fulfilled,' their dispensation will likewise terminate in a second
revelation of the gospel—a second resurrection and judgment. As the first
redeemed church was chiefly Jewish, (the apostles and prophets, its founda-
tions, and Jesus Christ its chief corner-stone, being Jews,) so Paul intimates
that the second redeemed church will be chiefly Gentile—that the Jews may
obtain mercy through the Gentiles, as the Gentiles have obtained mercy
through the Jews.
§ 48. THE MILLENNIUM.
Paul divides the resurrection of the human race into three distinct acts.
^As in Adam,' says he, '
all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive.*
But every man in his own order : Christ the first-fruits ; afterward they
that are Chrises at his coming. Then cometh the end, [or finishing of the
resurrection,] when he shall have dehvered up the kingdom to God, even
the Father ; when he shall have put down all rule and all authority and power.
Eor he must reign, till he hath put all enemies under his feet. The last en-
emy that shall be destroyed is death.' 1 Cor. 15: 22—26. Paul manifestly
intended to separate the resurrection w^hich was to take place at Christ's
coming, from the final resurrection. This distinction—though generally over-
looked—we shall see is imperatively required by other passages. f With
* It is manifest from the vvliole tenor of the chapter of which this is a part, that Paul
is speaking simply of a. physical resurrection, not of salvation from spiritual death. He
*!imply affirms that all will be raised. Other passag-es inform us that some will 'come
forth to the resurrection of life, and some to the resurrection of damnation.'
tProf. Stuart, in his late commentary on the Apocalypse, distinguishes between the
resurrection '
at Christ's coming-,' and '
the end' or final resurrection, just as we have
done. This view leads inevitably to the conclusion that the second coming takes place
Jong before liic final judgment, i. e. at the iirst resurrection, before the Millennium.
He lias thus opened a breach in the walls of the old doctrine that the resurrection and
judgment of mankind is to be a single transaction at the end of the world. His position
is the same as ours on the following points, viz : that two resurrections and two judg-
ments are predicted in scripture; thai the two resurrections are alike in nature, i. e.
honajide resurrections in the spiritual body; that they differ only in that the first precedes
Ihe second as to time, and is confined to a small part of the human race instead of being
universal. It is true that he entirely mis-Locates the first resurrection, if our theory is
correct: for he regards it as yet future, instead of dating it from the time pointed out by
ihe predictions of Christ and the expectations of the apostles, viz., the end of the Mo-
saic age. He adheres to the old theory of a future millennium, or thousand years of
*
latter day glory,' and supposes that the martyr church of the early days of Christianity
THE MILLENNIUM. 835
reference to the resurrection of the whole race, Christ is called the '
first-
fruits,'^
{aparche, in the Greek.] But with reference to the final resurrec-
tion, the primitive church, or '
they that are Christ's' and were raised at his
coming, are called the 'first-fruits' \_aparclie\ in Revelations 14: 4.* They
are also obviously referred to and spoken of in similar terms in Rev. 20: 4
6. The '
first resurrection' is the resurrection of the ' first-fruits.' This
last passage reveals to us a very wide separation between the second and
third acts of Paul's three-fold resurrection. More than a thousand years
intervene between the rising of them that are Christ's,' and the final, univer-
sal resurrection, when death and hell are destroyed. (See verses 7, 12, 14.)
The mark of the final resurrection, according to 1 Cor. 15: 24, is the put-
ting all things under Christ. ' The Father hath committed all judgment to
the Son ;' —and so long as the judgment of the world is unfinished, the inter-
mediate regency of the Son must continue. But all things were not put
under Christ at the second coming. The judgment of the world was not
finished. Death, the last enemy, was not cast into the lake of fire. We
know there is a sense, and a very important one, too, in which Christ tri-
umphed over all enemies and death was swallowed up in victory, at the
second coming. The saints that lived till that event did not sleep, but were
changed ; and so the promise of victory over death was fulfilled in regard to
a Hmited number. But in a similar sense, it is true that the last enemy was
conquered when Christ himself arose ; and he expressly said at that time,
*A11 power in heaven and in earth is given unto me.' The truth is, in both
of these events—viz., the resurrection of Christ, and his second coming—the
great last victory over the powers of death and hell, was achieved in the seed,
if we may use the expression. Christ's resurrection was the seed of the
resurrection of the second coming, and that was the seed of the final resur-
rection. But Paul's description of the * putting down of all rule and all
authorifcy and power,' certainly does not refer to any seminal victory. No-
thing less than an actual subjugation of all visible as well as invisible thrones
and dominions, can answer to his language. And the destruction of death,
which he had in his mind, was not that which was effected by the resurrec-
tion of Christ, nor that which took place when the primitive saints were^
translated ; but that which is to come, after the thousand years of the first
resurrection, and after the battle of the great day of God Almighty, when
all the dead both small and great shall be raised, and death shall be finally
and utterly destroyed in the lake of fire. Then the concerns of the world in
its probationary state—over which the Son presides—will be brought to an
end, and the kingdom will be delivered up to the Father. The vision which
will be raised at the beg-inning- of that period. This displacement is at variance not only
with the natui'al probabilities of the case, (for why should the martyrs lay under the
altar so long?) but with his own oft-repeated canon that the obvious design of the Apoc-
alypse, viz. the encourag-ement of the believers of the apostle's own time, should enter
into all our views of the book, and that we should therefore look for immediate rather
than remote fulfilments of its predictions. But it is not our de.'iig'n at present to argue
the matter. Selling- aside the difierence as to time, Stuart's doctrine agrees with ours
in all important respects, far more nearly than we expected.
* The hundred and forty-four thousand mentioned in this passage, may be certainly
identified with those who were raised at Christ's coming, by comparing Rev. 6 and 7.
836 THE MILLENNIUM.
immediately succeeds the description of the final judgment in Rev. 20, is that
of ' the new heavens and the new earth ;' and a great voice out of heaven
proclaims, 'Behold the tahernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell
with them, and they shall be his peo^jle, and Gob himself shall be ivith them,
and be their G-od.'' Is not this the kingdom of the Father ?
The same distinction which Ave have made between the resurrection at
Christ's coming, and the '
end' described in 1 Cor. 15: 24, should also be
made between the judgment described in the 24th of Matthew, and that m
the latter part of the 25th. The gathering of the elect mentioned in the
24th, was to take place within the period of the then living generation. This
is manifestly the resurrection of '
them that are Christ's at his coming,'
spoken of in 1 Cor. 15: 23—the sealing of the hundred and forty-four thou-
siand spoken of in Rev. 6—the gathering of the '
first-fruits' spoken of in Rev.
14—and the ' first resurrection' spoken of in Rev 20. But in Matthew 25:
31, 32, we have a description of events subsequent to the second coming
nay, of events that have not yet taken place,—such as the gathering of all
nations before Christ. '
When the Son of man shall come in his glory and
all the holy angels tuith him, [this is the second advent, which took place in
that generation, and ushered in the first resurrection,] then shall he sit upon
the throne of his glory : [this is the subsequent regency of the Son, continued
till all enemies are put under his feet—occupying the period between the
destruction of Jerusalem and the present time :] and before him shall be
gathered all nations/ ^'C. [This is the assembhng of the dead small and
great before the great white throne, the second and final judgment.] In this
case, as in that of 1 Cor. 15: 24, the long interval of the kingdom of the Son,
between the second advent and the final judgment, when the kingdom is to
be delivered up to the Father, has been generally overlooked, and thus two
widely separate judgments have been confounded. The consequence has been
that the second coming has been thrown forward by one party into the future,
in defiance of the plainest testimony of scripture,—and the final judgment has
been thrown back by another party into the past, in defiance of all the in-,
stincts of morality and common sense.
Our theory then is, that the judgment and resurrection of mankind took
place in the seed, when Christ died and rose ; that this seed brought forth
its first harvest in the resurrection of the Jewish church, and in the judgment
of antichrist at the period of the destruction of Jerusalem ; that it will bring
forth its second and final harvest, in the resurrection of the whole human
race, and in the destruction of death and hell, with all who adhere to them,
'
—at the end of the regency of the Son, when the kingdoms of this world
shall be fully put under him. According to this theory, the second advent is
past ; the first resurrection is past ; the Millennium is past ; and the things
that are to come are the final resurrection and judgment. The principal ob-
jection to this view is, the difficulty of reconciling with it the prediction of
the binding of Satan, during the Millennium. We will now proceed to an
examination of this subject.
The 20th chapter of Revelations, in which the binding of Satan, the Mil-
lennium, the battle of the great day, and the final resurrection and judgment,
THE MILLENNIUM. 88T
are described, is commonly supposed to be a continuation of tlie vision of the
preceding chapter, which closes with a great battle, in which the beast and
false prophet are taken and cast into the lake of fire. If this supposition
were correct, it would place the events of the 20th chapter after the destruc-
tion of the beast and false prophet, and we should be obliged to conclude
(since the beast and the false prophet certainly are not yet destroyed) that
the binding of Satan, and the Millenium, are yet future. But it is well
known that the book of Revelations is not a single continuous vision, repre-
senting a consecutive series of transactions ; but a collection of visions, in
which distinct trains of events that occupy the same period of time, and fre-
quently the same events under different aspects, are presented to view as it
were in pictures, which should be placed side by side. For example, in the
11th chapter it is said that ' the beast that ascendeth out of the bottomless pit,
shall make war upon the two witnesses, and kill them. Verse 7. On ex-
amining the preceding chapters we find nothing said of any such beast, though
he is introduced here as if he w^ere already known to the reader. But in
the 17th chapter this beast is brought to view, (verse 8,) and in such a man-
ner as to identify him with the beast described in the 13th chapter ; and
there we find him making war with the saints and overcoming them, (ver. 7,)
as he is represented in the 11th chapter. Thus the attentive reader will per-
ceive that the same beast is introduced three times, and in such a way as
makes it necessary that we should set the three visions, not in a consecutive
order, but side by side, and explain one by the other. Again, in the 16th
chapter, (ver. 19,) a summary view of the destruction of Babylon is intro-
duced, among other events ; and then in the 17th and 18th chapters we have
a distinct vision devoted to the entire history of Babylon from the period when
she sat upon the ten-horned beast in the glory of her power, till her awful
overthrow. In this ca-e, it cannot be doubted that the writer of the Apocar
lypse, after carrying the history of a general train of events down to a cer-
tain point, goes back and takes up a particular thread of the same history,
and traces it over the same period again. The principle of interpretation
which is thus ascertained, must be applied to the 19th and 20th chapters.
The visions which they contain are not consecutive, but collateral. To prove
this, it is only necessary to recur to a single circumstance. If the beast and
the false prophet were cast into the lake of fire before the binding of Satan,
and the Millennium, they could have no agency in the gathering of the na-
tions to the battle of the great day, which takes place after those events.
But they certainly have a joint agency Avith the dragon in that gathering ;
for in the 16th chapter (ver. 13, 14) it is written
—' I saw three unclean
spirits like frogs, come out of the mouth of the dragon, and out of the mouth
of the beast, and out of the mouth of the false prophet. For they are the
spirits of devils, working miracles, which go forth unto the kings of the earth,
and ot the whole world, to gather them to the battle of that great day of God
Almighty.'* The beast and the false prophet, then, are to be still oi\ the
stage when Satan is loosed and goes forth to gather Gog and Magog. We
must therefore regard the 19th chapter as a separate history of the beast and
false prophet down to the period of their destruction ; and the 20th, as a col-
42
838 THE MILLENNItM*
lateral special history of the dragon down to the same period. Both histories
terminate in the same great overthrow of the powers of hell ; only the beast
and the false prophet are first taken, and cast into the lake of fire, and the
di-agon afterward.
It seems to be generally assumed that the dragon is the great and exclu'
give representative of all evil, and of course, that, during the period when he
was bound, (i. e. the Millennium,) righteousness and peace must have reigned
supreme. But this assumption leaves the beast and false prophet out of view.^
We must remember that there are three great evil powers in the drama of
the Apocalypse ; and that while one of them was bound, the other two may
have had possession of the nations. Holiness and happiness, during the Mil-
lennium,' is attributed in Revelations 20: 4-^^-6, only to the martyrs of Jesus,
not to the nations of the world. '
The rest of the dead lived not again until
the thousand years were finished ;' so that death, with its train of evils, was
not destroyed in reference to mankind generally. In the 12th and 13th
chapters we have an account which fully authorizes the supposition that at the
time the dragon was bound, the beast took his place. The great dragon in-
troduced in chap. 12 : 8, is clearly the same as the dragon of the 20th chap-
ter, for he is characterized by the same names, viz., '
the old serpent, which
is the Devil, and Satan.' Yer. 9. After the account of his expulsion from
heaven, he is represented as wasting the earth in great wrath, '
because he
Jcnoweth that he hath hit a short time,^ Yer. 9—17. The reason why he knew
he had but a short time, evidently was, that he foresaw that the victory which
had been gained over him in heaven, would be followed up, and the angel of
the key and chain would be sent after him to cast him out of the earth into
the bottomless pit. Accordingly, immediately following his persecution of
the woman and her seed, we have an account of the rise of the beast; (chap.
13: 1 ;) and we are expressly told that '
the dragon gave him his potver
and his seat and great authority,'^ Yer. 2. It is not to be supposed that the
dragon would give up his power and seat^ if he could retain them. But what
happened to him at this time, that he should be obliged to make over his pos-
sessions to a successor ? We have no account of his temporary dethrone-
ment in the 13th chapter, nor any where else previous to the 20th ; and we
therefore regard the account in the 20th, of his being bound and cast into
the bottomless pit, as a specific statement of the transaction which compelled
him to give up his power and seat to the beast. This accords with the fact
that he knew he had ' but a short time.' The interval between his ejection
from heaven, and the rise of the beast, was short ; and during the reign of
the beast he was confined in the bottomless pit. The Millennium, then, was
the period of the supremacy of the beast ; and instead of being a day of glory
to the inhabitants of the earth, was a period of blasphemy, war, and bondage.
(See chap. 13: 5—8.) ^
But what was that evil power which was restrained during the reign of the
beast ? In order to answer this question, we must ascertain the distinctive
character of the dragon.
The primary duty of all creatures is to worship God. Hence it is the pri-
IJiary object of the ' old serpent which is the Devil, and Satan,' in his native
THE MILLENNIUM. QS^
eliaraeter, as the uncreated rival and antagonist of God, to draw men away
to the worship of himself. Idolatry is virtually the worship of the devil,
and is therefore the form of sin over which he specially presides. As the
patron of idolatry, it may truly be said in respect to the ages before Christi-
anity, that he '
deceived the whole world.' Not only the Gentiles, but even
Israel, God's peculiar people, for ages gave themselves up to the worship of
idols with unaccountable fatuity. It was to the subversion of this first-born
sin that God directed all his efforts, in his dealings with his people, until the
Babylonish captivity,—when he succeeded, at least externally, in regard to
them. Thenceforward his object was to carry the victory which he had gained
in a single nation, into the heart of the whole world. This we shall see he
accomplished Avhen Christianity triumphed over Eome.
To show more fully that the devil, in his distinctive character as a rival of
God, is an aspirant after divine worship, we may cite the last temptation
which he offered to Christ. '
All these [Idngdoms of the world] will I give
thee if thou tvilt fall down and worsJiip we.' Mat. 4: 7. And again, the
man of sin, ' whose coming was after the working of Satan'—who was, in fact,
the incarnation of Satan himself,—is represented as ' exalting himself above
all that is called God, or that is worshipped ; so that he, as Qod^ sitteth in
the temple of Crod, showing himself that he is Cfod.* 2 Thess. 2: 4.
Regarding the devil, then, in distinction from the beast and the false
prophet, as the reijresentative of idolatry^ let us trace his history in the
Apocalypse. He is first introduced, as a great red dragon in heaven, stand-
ing before the woman crowned with twelve stars, ready to devour the child
she was about to bring forth. Rev. 12: 3. When Judaism brought forth
Christianity, what was it but Paganism (so far as the visible world is concer-
ned) that stood ready to destroy it ? Paganism, as well as Judaism and
Christianity, had its spiritual seat in '
heavenly places,' up to that time ; and
we regard the dragon, the woman, and her child, as symbols of those three
powers. Next we find the devil, after fighting for his place in heaven, de-
feated and cast out. Ver. 9. Recurring to the account of the man of sin, we
see that self-exalting monster whose place was ' in the temple of G-od,' des*
troyed by the brightness of Christ's coming. This took place in the spiritual
world, and immediately after the destruction of Jerusalem, which was the
travail of the woman that brought forth the man-^child. The great spirit of
idolatry was then first ejected from the '
heavenly places.' The devil next
is represented as wreaking his vengeance on the inhabifers of the earth, by
persecuting the woman and ^
the remnant of^her seed.' Ver. 13—17. This
clearly represents the bloody rage of Paganism against the ' martyr church*
during the first ages after the destruction of Jerusalem. But Satan's time
was short. '
I saw,' says John, '
an angel come down from heaven, having
the key of the bottomless pit and a great chain in his hand. And he laid
hold on the dragon, that old serpent, which is the Devil, and Satan, and
bound him a thousand years ; and cast him into the bottomless pit, and shut
him up, and set a seal upon him, that he should deceive the nations no more
till the thousand years should be fulfilled.' Rev. 20: 1—3. Without at-
tempting a precise explanation of this passage, it is sufficient for our present
840 THK MILLENNIUM.
purpose to say, that \ye regard it as a representation of the suppression of
idolatry, and the restraint of Pagan influences throughout the territory com-
monly called Christendom, during the middle ages. It is a fact, whether
we rightly interpret and apply it, or not, that Paganism was suppressed in
the Roman Empire shortly after the '
martyr age.' The accession of Con-
stantino to the throne gave Christianity the ascendancy in A. D. 323 ; and
though idolatry was afterwards, to some extent, tolerated, in the course of a
few centuries it was utterly banished and barred out, by the edicts of other
emperors ; by the triumph of Christianity over the barbarous nations that
overran the Roman Empire, and settled the west of Europe ; and finally, by
the rise of Mahommedanism in the East, which maintained by fire and sword
the unity of God, and stood for ages as a bulwark against idolatry, separa-
ting Europe from the territories of Paganism. We may safely say, in round
numbers, that for a thousand years the influences of Paganism were excluded
from Christendom. Yet, during this period the beast, that represents false
Christianity, reigned in Satan's stead ; and the Millennium, instead of being
a day of glory to the nations of the world, was a period that is well charac-
terized as the ' dark ages.' In fact, the very darkness and imbecility of
those ages, by limiting the intercourse of nations, and, as it were, secluding
Christendom in monastic solitude, helped to exclude Paganism from its an-
cient seat.
But Satan was cast into the '
bottomless pit. ^ How is this to be under-
stood ? What is the '
bottomless pit f This question is easily answered by
recurring to the original. The word translated '
bottomless pit' is that from
which the English word abyss is derived, and should have been translated the
abyss or the deep. It does not refer, as is commonly supposed, to hell, or to
a place of punishment, but is equivalent to the word sea. This may be seen
by comparing Rev. 17: 8, with 13: 1. The same beast is the subject of dis-
course in both of these passages : and in one of them he is described as as-
cending out of the '
bottomless pit,' or the abyss ; and in the other, as rising
out of '
the sea.' Now we have a definition of '
many waters,' in Rev. 17:
15, which may also be taken for a definition of '
the sea,' or the abyss, out of
which the beast (as also the locusts of the fifth trumpet, ch. 9: 1) ascended,
and into which Satan was cast. '
The waters which thou sawest are peoples
and multitudes and nations and tongues."^ According to this definition, we
understand, that as.the locusts, (chap. 9: 3,) which evidently represent the
Mohammedans, poured forth from the chaotic regions of the eastern world,
as the beast whose body was formed chiefly of the barbarians that overran the
Roman Empire, also came out of the same eastern abyss ; so Satan, or the
spirit of idolatry, when expelled from Christendom, was cast into the same
abyss, and there confined a thousand years.
The most difiicult matter still remains to be explained ; and that is, the re-
lease of Satan at the expiration of the Millennium. Our theory leads to the
conclusion that the spirit of Paganism has been let loose again upon Christen-
dom, since the end of the '
dark ages.' What evidence is there of this in his-
tory ? We will simply mention four facts which we regard as tokens of the
loosing of Satan. 1. Mohammedauisui; which was an important part of the
THE MILLENNIUM. 341
chain with which Paganism was bound, has within the last few centuries fallen
into decay. 2. During the same period the Russian Empire, which, as to a
great part of its territory, is Pagan, and in fact, is part of the great Asiatic
abyss out of which the locusts and the beast arose, has become a leading power
in Europe. 3. The channels of communication between Europe and the
East—which during the dark ages were closed—have been opened by the im-
provements of navigation, and the revival of commercial enterprise ; and in
all communications between good and evil, where fallen human nature alone is
concerned, evil has the advantage. Instead of imagining that England by
her eastern enterprises has civilized Asia, we apprehend that Asia has well
nigh paganized the spirit of England. 4. The concomitant, and in fact one
principal element of the Reformation, was what is called the '
revival of let-
ters ;' which was nothing more than a re-enthronement of Greek and Latin
[ i. e. Pagani intellect. The spirit of heathen Rome and Greece, in the
16th century, spread itself over all Christendom ; and at this day it reigns
supreme in the colleges and schools of Europe and this country. Such facts
as these satisfy us that at the very time (whenever it was) that God began
to move the world by the spirit of Reform, Satan also was loosed, and went
forth to gather the nations to battle.*
Thus we have shown that the account of the binding and loosing of Satan,
in the 20th of Revelations, is consistent with our first position that the second
advent, the first resurrection, and the Millennium, are past. "We may add in
conclusion, that the views presented in this article, lead us to believe that the
dragon, the beast, and the false prophet, are now engaged in their work of
gathering the nations ; and that the battle of the great day, which precedes
the final resurrection and judgment, is the scene next to come.
* It appears by the following- extract from Le Bas's life of Wielif—the father of the
Reformation—that our theory, in some of its g-eneral features, is not of very recent or
heretical orig-in. At the very time of Satan's irruption, Christendom seems to have had
an instinctive or an inspired discernment of his presence :
—
"In the days of Wielif, there v^^andered about Christendom a persuasion, that the
world had seen an end of the Apocalyptic period of a thousand years, during which Sa-
tan was to be bound, and that he was then actually looseti from that confinement, and
was in the full exercise of his reniaining privilege of mischief It appears, from a pas-
sage in Fox's Book of Martyrs, that some reckoned the thousand years from the birth
of Christ: others, as he conceives, more correctlj'^, from the ce&f ation of the church's
suflerings in the days of Constantine. Accofding to either supposition, the period had
expired previously to the birth of Wielif. To this opinion there are repeated allusions
iu the writings of Wielif He seems to speak of it as a thing beyond all controversy ;
and to consider the Christian community as once more exposed to the desperate malice
of its invisible persecutor and adversary."
§ 49. THE '
TWO WITNESSES.'
The history of the two witnesses occupies the whole space between the
first and second judgments. Commencing at the destruction of Jerusalem,
(see Rev. 11: 2, 3,) it extends to the completion of the second woe, which
immediately precedes the trumpet of the last judgment. Verses 12—18.
Forty and two months, or (dropping the symbol) 1260 years, reaching to
A. D. 1330, is the period of their appointed testimony ; but their death, res-
urrection, ascension to heaven, and the earthquake and slaughter which con-
stitute the second woe, are posterior to their testimony, and occupy an indefi-
nite period subsequent to the 1260 years. These are evidently the events
which have taken place since 1330, when the dispensation immediately pre-
paratory to the second judgment commenced. We may divide the whole
period covered by the Apocalypse into four parts, viz : 1, the period of the
the first judgment ; 2, the period of the testimony of the two witnesses ; 3,
the period of the ascension of the two witnesses ; 4, the period of the second
judgment. The first and second of these periods are clearly defined ; but
the boundaries of the other two are yet to be ascertained.
Since the two witnesses, then, are evidently the representatives of the in-
termediate dispensation between the first and second judgments—i. e., of the
dispensation which has existed over Christendom since the destruction of Je-
rusalem—it is a matter of some importance to determine who they are, or
what they signify. We are not prepared to solve all the enigmas of their
history ; but we have a general theory about them, which, to our own mind^
is satisfactorily established^ and sufiicient for the purpose of determining the
character of the dispensation which succeeded the apostolic age and is now
approaching its end. This theory we will proceed to expound.
In the first place, the two witnesses are declared to be 'the two olive trees
and the two candlesticks standing before the God of the earth.' Ver. 4.
This refers us to the 4th chapter of Zechariah, where the prophet records his
vision of a candlestick with its lamps, supplied with oil by two olive trees.
^ These,' said the angel, referring to the olive trees, ' are the two anointed
ones that stand by the Lord of the whole earth.' Ver. 14. The two witnesses,
then, are the '
two anointed ones' who stood by the Lord of the earth, in
Zechariah's time. From this we infer clearly two things : 1, That the two
witnesses were literal persons, and not symbols ; for if they were symbols,
then the olive trees would be symbols of symbols, and the angel's professed
explanation when he said, ' These are the two anointed ones,' &c., w^ould be
no explanation at all, but only a transmutation of one set of symbols into
another : 2, That the tAvo witnesses were not inhabitants of the visible w^orld,
but of some inner mansion ; for at the time of the destruction of Jerusalem,
when they were to commence their testimony among the Gentiles, they must
have been four or five hundred years old, since they existed as the two
anointed ones of God at the time of the building of the second temple by
Zerubbabel.
THE TWO WITNESSES. 343
By an attentive perusal of Zech. 4, the reader will perceive that the object
of the vision was to teach the prophet, that Zeriibbabel was sustained in his
arduous enterprise of rebuilding the temple, not by his own strength, but by
the spirit of the Lord ;
(see ver. 6 ;) just as the light of a lamp is sustained
by the oil in its bowl. And then the view of the seer is carried back into
the invisible world, where he is shown the channel through which the spirit
of God was ministered to Zerubbabel. The oil poured itself into the lamp
from two olive trees. These olive trees w^ere two anointed persons, who stood
before the God of the earth, deriving their power from him. The links in
the chain of agency by Avhich the temple w^aa being built were, 1, the God
of the earth ; 2, the two anointed ones who stood before him ; and 3, Zerub-
babel and the visible laborers.
It appears, then, that in Zechariah's time there were two anointed ones
who stood as spiritual mediators between God and the visible Jewish church,
and superintended the building of the temple. Who were they ? The two
principal agents of God under the Jewish dispensation were certainly Moses
and Elijah. If the two anointed ones were men, it is to be presumed that
they were the two men who had the most agency and took the most interest
in the affairs of the Jewish dispensation. Moses was in some sense a spiritual
mediator while on earth ;
(see Numb. 11: 25 ;) and Elijah, five hundred
years after his ascension, was revealed spiritually according to the prediction
of Malachi, (4: 5,) and the declaration of Christ, (Matt. 11: 14,) in John
the Baptist. There is reason therefore to suspect, especially from the last
mentioned fact, that Moses and Elijah, after their departure from this world,
continued to exercise- a spiritual supervision and mediation in relation to the
Jewish economy, and were the two anointed ones through whom God endued
Zerubbabel with power. And as the two anointed ones of Zechariah and the
two witnesses of the Apocalypse are expressly declared to be identical, there
is the same reason to suspect that the two witnesses also were Moses and
Elijah.
Again, Christ (who evidently spoke through his angel in Eev. 11: 3)
called the two anointed ones '
my two witnesses,' as though John, to whom
he spoke, knew that he had two witnesses, and would readily understand to
whom he referred. Who then w^ould be likely to occur to John's mind as
being the two witnesses of Christ ? Most obviously Moses and Elijah, whom
John (with Peter and James) had seen with Christ in the cloud of glory on
the mount. Matt. IT: 3. The manifest purport of the transfiguration-scene-
was to show the disciples, among other things, that Moses and Elijah were
yet living and acting in the affairs of God's kingdom, and that they were the
two prime ministers of Christ-—the anointed ones that stood before him as the
sovereign of the world. John had seen Christ's two witnesses under circum-
stances never to be forgotten ; and he would readily understand that they
were the same as the two anointed ones who gave power to Zerubbabel.
Further, the power which is ascribed to the two witnesses, (ver. 5,6,) of
destroying their enemies by miraculous fire, of shutting up the rain of heaven,,
of turning waters into blood, and of smiting the earth with all plagues, is
precisely the kmd of power which was given pecuHarly to Moses and Ehjah
844 THE TWO WITNESSES.
while on earth. Moses turned waters into blood, (Ex. 7: 20,) and smote
Egypt with all manner of plagues. Elijah destroyed two companies of fifty
by miraculous fire, (2 Kings 1: 9, &c.,) and shut heaven so that it rained
not for three years and six months. IKings 17: 1. We do not undertake to
say specifically what manifestation of these powers is announced in the apoca-
lyptical vision under consideration ; but we affirm that the language of the
annunciation is exactly fitted to suggest the idea that the two witnesses were
Moses and Elijah.
The threefold combination of coincidences which we have sketched, convin-
ces us that when Christ said, '
I will give power to my two witnesses, and
they shall prophesy [in the outer court] a thousand two hundred and three-
score days,' he meant, ' I will give power to Moses and Elijah, who have been
my witnesses and agents in the Jewish dispensation, and they shall continue
their official work among the Gentiles for another period of 1260 years.'
We are not prepared to propose any theory in regard to the manner in
which it is to be understood that the two witnesses were slain by the beast
that ascended out of the bottomless pit, and afterward were raised and taken
up to heaven. These are details, the explanation of which requires a fuller
knowledge of the nature and transactions of the spiritual world than we at
present possess. Nor is the explanation of them necessary to our present
purpose. It is sufficient that we can gather from them that after 1260 years,
i. e. in 1330, the two witnesses finished their testimony among the Gentiles,
by a transaction resembling the sacrifice of their master, and have since tri-
umphed over their enemies, and prepared the way of the last judgment.
What we wish to bring distinctly to view as the result of our theory, is,
that the dispensation which commenced from the destruction of Jerusalem,
was not properly speaking the Christian dispensation, i. e. a continuation of
the dispensation introduced by Christ and his apostles, but a second edi-
tion of the Jewish dispensation, or a continuation of the dispensation committed
to Moses and Elijah. The spiritual life of what has been called the Chris-
tian church since the apostolic age has been not a revelation of Christ himself,
but of the two witnesses who went before him. John the Baptist was a mani-
festation of Elijah ; so that it was in fact Elijah that was sent as '
a voice in
the wilderness to prepare the way of the Lord.' This was his office, and the
same was the office of Moses, and of tbo whole Jewish dispensation. All that
is said of the inferiority of John the Baptist to Christ, may properly be taken
as an index of the inferiority of the two witnesses to their Master, and of their
entire dispensation, to the Christian.
The witnesses were two, because the preparatory dispensation was twofold,
legal and prophetic. Moses was the representative of the law. Elijah was
the representative of the prophetic spirit, which was intermediate between the
law and the gospel, resting in the former, but looking forward to the latter.
Christ was the representative of the gospel. As Moses and Elijah are called
Christ's two witnesses, so Paul says with a remarkable coincidence of lan-
guage that the gospel was '
witnessed by the law and the prophets.' Rom. 3:
21. The dispensation which succeeded the apostohc age, has plainly borne
the marks of its secondary origin. We can readily trace in it the footsteps
THE FIRST RESURRECTION. 345
of the two witnesses, but not of Christ. It has dealt largely in the righteous-
ness of the law, and it has nourished within itself the hopes of the prophets.
But the righteousness of God revealed by the gospel, has been wanting. As
Christ said '
the prophets and the law prophesied until John,' so we may now
say, with the Apocalypse for our voucher, that, with the exception of the brief
parenthesis of the primitive church, the prophets and the law prophesied at
least till A. D. 1330.
§50. THE FIRST RESURRECTION.
The nature, subjects and period of the *
first resurrection,' described
by John in Rev. 20,, may be determined with entire certainty by the follow-
ing process.
I. We compare 1 Cor. 15: 51, 52, and 1 Thess. 4: 16, 17, with Matt.
24: 29—34.
1 CoR. AND 1 Thess.
" We shall not all sleep, but we shall
all be changed. In a moment, in the
twinkling of an eye, at the last trump :
for the trumpet shall sound, and the dead
shall be raised incorruptible, and we
shall be changed."
"The Lord himself shall descend from
heaven with a shout, with the voice of
the archangel and with the trump of
God : and the dead in Christ shall rise
first : then we which are alive and re-
main, shall be caught up together with
them in the clouds, to meet the Lord in
the air ; and so shall we ever be with
the Lord."
The parallelism of these passages is manifest in the following particulars.
1. Both columns announce the second advent of Christ. 2. Both predict
the sounding of the angelic trumpet. 3. Both make that sounding the sig-
nal of the gathering of the saints. In Matthew the gathering is simply
announced, without explanation of its nature. In the passages from 1 Corin-
thians and 1 Thessalonians the gathering is described as a resurrection of the
dead, a change of the living from mortality to immortality, and a translation
of all to the immediate presence of Christ. 4. Both columns set the time of
this great transaction very near to the period of Christ's personal ministry.
In the first, language is used which plainly indicates that Paul expected that
he and others cotemporary with him would be alive at the time of the second
advent j and in the second, it is expressly afiirmed that Christ would come
43
Matt. 24: 29—34.
" Immediately after the tribulation of
those days [A. D. 70] shall the sun be
darkened ; . . . and then shall appear
the sign of the Son of man in heaven ;
and then shall all the tribes of the earth
mourn ; and they shall see the Son of
man coming in the clouds of heaven,
with power and great glory. And he
shall send his angels with a great sound
of a trumpet, and they shall gather to-
gether his elect from the four winds,
from one end of heaven to the other.
. . . Verily I say unto you, this gene-
ration shall not pass till all these things
be fulfilled."
346 fKE FIRST RESURRECTION'.
ftnd gather Iiis elect immediately after the destruction of Jerusalem, tvithln
the Hfetime of the generation then present. On the whole, there can be no
doubt that both refer to the same events. Of course it is demonstrated that
Matt. 24: 31 announces a literal resurrection—a gathering of the saints, liv-
ing and dead, from Hades and Mortality*
II. We compare Matt. 24: 29—31, with Rev. 6 and T.
Rev. 6 and 7.
Ver. 12, "I beheld when he had open-
ed the sixth seal, and lo, there was a
great earthquake ; and the sun became
black as sackcloth of hair, and the moon
became as blood : and the stars of heav-
en fell unto the earth, and the heaven
departed as a scroll, &;c. And the kings
of the earth, &c., hid themselves \n the
dens and in the rocks of the mountains;
and said to the mountains and rocksj.
Fall on us, and hide us from the face of
him that sitteth on the throne, and from
the wrath of the Lamb; for the great
day of his wrath is come ; and who shall
be able to stand? And after these things
I saw four angels . . . holding the four
winds, . . . and I saw another angel
having the seal of the living God, and he
cried with a loud voice, . . saying, . *
Hurt not the earth . . . till we have
sealed the servants of our God in their
foreheads. » . . And there were sealed
an hundred and forty and four thousand
of all the tribes of Israel ; of the tribe of
Juda twelve thousand ; of the tribe of
Reuben twelve thousand, &;c. And lo
a great multitude . . of all nations . .
stood before the throne and before the
Lamb, clothed with white robes. . , »
They shall hunger no more, neither
thirst any more," <Sz;c.
The general identity of these passages is too evident to need much comment.
In the last paragraphs of the parallel, the following points of unity may be
noticed. 1. Both passages announce a gathering of the saints to Christ. 2«
Both represent it as a gathering from the four winds. 3. Both ascribe the
gathering to the instrumentality of angels. 4. As we have proved that the
first announces in general language, a literal resurrection, so in the second
we find a variety of terms that plainly point to the same fact : e. g., the saints
are sealed with the ' seal of the living God ;' they are clothed with '
white
robes ;' they have * come up out o/ great tribulation ;' they stand before God;
tiiey are beyond the reach of hunger and thirst.
Matt. 24: 29—31.
" Immediately after the tribulation of
those days shall the sun be darkened,
and the moon shall not give her light,
and the stars shall fall from heaven, and
the powers of the heavens shall be sha-
ken. Then shall appear the sign of
the Son of man in heaven ; and then
shall all the tribes of the earth mourn.
And they shall see the Son of man com-
ing in the clouds of heaven, with power
and great glory. And he shall send his
angels with a great sound of a trumpet,
and they shall gather his elect from the
four winds, from one end of heaven to
the other."
THE FIRST RESURRECTION. 847
It sliould be noticed also that the chronological indices in the two passages
exactly agree. In Matthew, the time fixed for the advent of Christ and the
gathering of the saints, was within the lifetime of the generation living when
the prophecy was uttered ; in other words, '
immediately after the tribulation*
of the destruction of Jerusalem in A. D. 70. In Rev. 6 and 7, the advent
and gathering take place at the opening of the sixth seal, previous to the
sounding of any of the trumpets of the Gentile dispensation, and immediately
after a series of tribulations, exactly coi-responding to those of A. D. 70,
ushered in by the opening of the first five seals.
It is thus made certain that the 7th chapter of Revelations describes the
same gathering as that announced in Matt. 24: 31, and of course the same
resurrection of the saints from Hades and Mortality, as that announced in
1 Cor. 15: 52, and 1 Thess. 4: 16, 17. Thus also the time of this resurrec^
tion is fastened with a ' threefold cord' to the period immediately subsequent
to the destruction of Jerusalem, before the commencement of the times of tho
Gentiles.
We must here glance at some of the details which are presented in Rev. 7,
It will be perceived that w^hile Matt. 24: 31 predicts the gathering of the
saints, and the passages in 1 Corinthians and 1 Thessalonians give us a clue
to the mode of the gathering, we have in Rev. 7 a sort of statistical account
of the number and national origin of the persons gathered. Twelve thousand
from each of the tribes of Israel—in all 144,000 Jews—occupy the fore-
ground of the resurrection-scene, and the picture is filled up with an innu-
merable multitude '
of all nations and kindreds and peoples and tongues.'
This is just such a gathering as might be anticipated, on the supposition that
it was the general harvest of the saints of preceding ages. The vision cauv
not be referred Avith the least plausibility to any such transactions in the vis-
ible world as the conversion of Jews and Gentiles to Christianity; for, in tha
first place, the number of Jews that embraced Christianity in the times to
which the prophecy refers, never approached the sum of 144,000 ; and, sec-
ondly, their classification by tribes, was then obsolete. It is as evident that
the assignment of the 144,000 to the original twelve tribes of Israel is to be
understood literally, as it is that the innumerable multitude which was gath-
ered with them came literally from '
every nation and kindred and people and
tongue.' If it is considered that for two thousand years the religion of the
true God had made its abode with the Jews, it is easily conceivable that twelve
thousand of each of the twelve tribes should have '
died in faith,' and have
been kept in store for the resurrection at Christ's advent. And it is equally
rational to suppose that they who '
feared God and worked righteousness'
among the Gentiles, few and far between as they were in individual nations
and times, would amount, when reckoned for the whole world, and for all
preceding ages, to an '
innumerable multitude.'
On the whole it is sufficiently evident that we have in the 7th of Revela-
tions a specific account of the resurrection of the ' Old Testament saints,'
(including of course the saints of the apostolic age.) As the Gentile multi.
tude was evidently only a secondary accompaniment of the 144,000 from the
tribes of Israel, the resurrection under consideratiou may properly be tenne^
348 THE FIRST RESURRECTION.
by way of distinction, the resurrection of the Jewish church. The appropri-
ate time for this resurrection was at the close of the Jewish dispensation.
III. We next compare Rev. 7: 2—4, with Rev. 14: 1—4.
Rev. 14: 1—4.
" I looked, and lo, a Lamb stood on
the Mount Sion, and with him an hun-
dred and forty.four thousand, having
his Father's name written in their fore-
heads. . . . These were redeemed from
among men, being the first-fruits unto
God and the Lamb."
Rev. 7: 2—4.
" I saw another angel . . . having
the seal of the Hving God ; and he
cried, saying. Hurt not the earth . . .
till we have sealed the servants of our
God in their foreheads. . . . And there
were sealed an hundred and forty.four
thousand of all the tribes of Israel."
It is obvious that both of these passages refer to the same ransomed as-
sembly. The number in each is the same. In each, the saints are sealed in
their foreheads with the name of the living God.
Now as we have proved that the first passage announces a literal resurrec-
tion of the Jewish church, which took place immediately after the close of the
Jewish dispensation, we transfer this information to the second passage, and
by means of it determine the meaning of the concluding verse—' These were
redeemed from among men, being the first-fruits unto God and the Lamb.'
Under the Jewish dispensation, the first ripe fruits were offered to God before
the general harvest was gathered. In some sense, therefore, the passage be-
fore us represents the church of 144,000 as being presented to God before
the general gathering of mankind. Our previous demonstrations show in what
sense this was true. That Jewish church was first presented to God in the
resmrection. The term '-
firstfruits^ is here applied to the 144,000 in the
same way as it is applied to Christ in 1 Cor. 15: 23. With reference to the
whole race of man, Christ was the '
first-fruits' of the resurrection harvest.
With reference to the great mass, to be raised after the times of the Gentiles,
the Jewish church was the '
first-fruits.' It is proved then by the explicit
testimony of inspiration, as well as by every consideration of reason, that the
resurrection of the Jewish church immediately after the destruction of Jeru-
salem, Avas the ^
first resurrection.'
IV. We turn now to Rev. 20: 4—13, and apply to its interpretation the
results of our preceding investigations. The portions of the passage which are
essential to our present purpose are the following :
'
I saw the souls of them that were beheaded for the witness of Jesus and
for the word of God, . . . and they lived and reigned with Christ a thousand
years. . . . But the rest of the dead lived not again till the thousand years
were finished. This is the first resurrection. Blessed and holy is he that
hath part in the first resurrection. . . . They shall be priests of God and of
Christ, and shall reign with him a thousand years. When the thousand years
are expired, [Gog and Magog are gathered and brought up to the battle of
the great day of God Almighty. Fire from heaven consumes them, and the
devil that deceived them is cast into the lake of fire.] And I saw i\\Q dead,
small and great, stand before God ; . . . and the sea gave up the dead which
were in it, and death and hell delivered up the dead which were in them, and
they were judged every man according to their works.'
THE FIRST RESURRECTION. 349
Here we have a description of two resurrections, separated from each other
by an interval of many ages. One of them is called the '
first resurrection'
with manifest reference to the other as the second. Both therefore are of the
same kind. If one is a literal resurrection, the other must also be literal. It
is admitted on all hands that the second is a literal resurrection. Of course
the same is true of the first. Now as we have proved that a literal resurrec-
tion of the Jewish church took place immediately after the destruction of Je-
rusalem, and that this was the first resurrection ; and as it is evident that
there can be but one first resurrection, it is fairly demonstrated that the res-
urrection denominated '
the first' in the above passage, is identical with that of
the Jewish church. This conclusion will be confirmed by comparing the spe-
cific characteristics of the persons described as the subjects of the resurrection
in question, with the characteristics of the church that was raised at the close
of the Jewish dispensation.
1. Compare Rev. 14: 3—5, with Rev. 20: 6.
Chap. 14.
" They sung a new song, . . . and
no man could learn that song but the
144,000 which were redeemed from the
earth. These are they which were not
defiled, ... In their mouth was found
no guile, for they are without fault."
Chap. 20.
" They lived and reigned with Christ
a thousand years. But the rest of the
dead lived not again till the thousand
years were finished. This is the first
resurrection. Blessed and holy is he
that hath part in the first resurrection."
One of these passages is manifestly the echo of the other. The peculiar
blessedness and holiness attributed to the subjects of the first resurrection in
the second of them, is more minutely described in the first, and is there ex-
pressly assigned to the 144,000, or, as we have before proved, to the Jewish
church which was raised from the dead after the destruction of Jerusalem.
2. Compare Rev. 6: 9—11, with Rev. 20: 4—6.
Chap. 6.
« When he had opened the fifth seal,
I saw under the altar the souls of them
that were slain for the word of God and
for the testimony which they held.
And they cried with a loud voice, saying,
How long, O Lord, holy and true, dost
thou not judge and avenge our blood on
thetn that dwell on the earth. And
white robes v/ere given to them ; and it
was said unto them that they should
rest yet for a little season, until their
fellow-servants, and their brethren that
should be killed as they were, should be
fulfilled."
The same company of the martyred dead are the subjects of discourse in
both of these passages. In the first passage they are represented as awaiting
the redemption of the judgment. In the second their judgment is past, and
they are described as standmg with Christ in the blessedness and holiness of
Chap. 20.
<'
I saw thrones, and they sat upon
them, and judgment was given unto
them : and I saw the souls of them
that were beheaded for the witness of
Jesus and for the word of God ; . . .
and they lived and reigned with Christ
a thousand years. But the rest of the
dead lived not again until the thousand
years were finished. This is the first
resurrection. Blessed and holy is he
that hath part in the first resurrec-
tion."
350 THE FIRST BESURRECTION.
the resurrection. The scene of the first passage occurs at the opening of the
fifth seal, just after the awful tribulations that follow the opening of the former
seals, (i. e. the tribulations of A. D. 70,) and just before the second advent and
the resurrection-gathering which follow the opening of the sixth seal. It is
manifest that these same martyrs who cried for deliverance at the opening of
the fifth seal, were the subjects of the gathering under the sixth. And thus
it is evident that they who are described in Rev. 20 as partakers in the first
resurrection, are also identical with those who were gathered under the sixth
seal.*
In view of all these coinciding tokens, we cannot doubt that the true inter-
pretation of the vision in Rev. 20: 4—6, is as follows: 1. The resurrection
there described, was, as to its nature, a rising from Hades and Mortality
that very resurrection which the apostles and primitive believers constantly
represented as very near, and which Paul in 1 Cor. 15: 52 and 1 Thess. 4.
16, specifically defined as a literal resurrection. 2. Its subjects were the
saints of all previous ages—in three classes, viz. martyrs, Jews, and Gen-
tiles. 3. Its TIME was immediately after the tribulations of A. D. 70, be-
tween the opening of the sixth and seventh seals, and more than a thousand
years previous to the time appointed for the general resurrection.
We subjoin the following corollaries of this conclusion.
1. The millennium, properly so called, being the period between the first
and second resurrection, is past. It was the millennium, not of saints in this
world, but of the saints of the Jewish dispensation, in the resurrection.
2. We are now in a position to see why the New Testament constantly
places the commencement of the kingdom of heaven at the destruction of
Jerusalem. The kingdom of heaven is properly the kingdom of the resur-
rectio7i. Christ entered the resurrection himself soon after his death ; and,
so far as the king was concerned, the kingdom of heaven began from his as-
cension. But his destined subjects in Hades and Mortahty, did not enter
the resurrection till his coming at the end of the Jewish dispensation. That
therefore was more properly the era of the commencement of his kingdom.
3. We understand now what Christ meant, when he promised his apostles
that at his ascension of the throne, they also should 'sit upon twelve thrones,
judging the twelve tribes of Israel. '^
Probably most persons would find it
difficult to tell where ' the twelve tribes of Israel' over whom the apostles
* It should be notieed that while the church of the first resurrection is described in
Rev. 7, as a complex body, consisting- on the one hand of 144,000 from the tribes of Is-
rael, and on the other of a vast multitude from other nations, the same cliurch is desig--
uated in Rev. 14: 1 —4, simply by the number of the Jewish portion of it, i. e. 144,000;
and in Rev. 20: 4—6 it is designated by the still narrower expression —* the souls of them
that toere beheaded,' &c. This variation indicates that there were three distinct grades
in that church. As the 144,000 Jews were distinguished as the nucleus of the Gentile
multitude, so within this nucleus there appears to have been a still more distinguished
body, consisting of those who in all ages hud suffered death for the word of God. This
being the constitution of the church, it is obvious that it might properly and naturally
be designated by reference either to the whole of its complex body, or to the Jewish
portion of it, as being its soul, or to the company of the martyrs, as being its heart. —
We do not understand from the language of Rev. 20: 4, that none but those who literally
suffered martyrdom, had part in the first resurrection, but that the martyrs of the Jewish
dispensation and of the apostolic age, were the prominent persons of the drama.
BUSH ON THE RESURRECTION. 351
were to reign, could be found. In this world the original distinction of the
tribes has long been obliterated, and, according to the common apprehension,
no such distinction has any place in heaven. But we have found a very ex-
plicit disclosure of the fact that the central body of the '
church of the first-
born' consists of a hundred and forty-four thousand Jews, divided into twelve
tribes of twelve thousand each. Thus we find a place for the twelve thrones
of the apostles.
§ 51. BUSH ON THE RESURRECTION.
Anastasis : or the Doctrine of the Resurrection of the Body, rationally and
scripiurally cotisidered* By George Busb. Professor of Hebrew, New York
City University. New York: Wiley and Putnam. 1845.
On reading this work, we find ourselves obliged to confess that our favor-
able anticipations of it have not been realized. The novelty of its theories
evinces a mental bravery which we cannot but admire, and to some of its
conclusions we cordially assent ; but we are convinced that, as a whole, it
presents a false view of the great subject which it undertakes to expound.
We shall vindicate this opinion of its merits, not by sweeping, declamatory
censures, but by '
sternly interrogating' its specific doctrines.
The negative part of the main position which is assumed and defended
throughout the book, is, that ' the resurrection of the body is not a doctrine
of revelation.' Mr. Bush gives no quarter to such rhapsodies as the follow-
ing from Young's '
Last Day :'
" Now monuments prove faitjiful to their trust,
And render back their long committed dust
Now charnels rattle ; scattered limbs, and all
The various bones, obsequious to the call,
Self.moved advance ; the neck perhaps to meet
The distant head ; the distant head the feet.
Dreadful to view, see, through the dusky sky,
Fragments of bodies in confusion fly ;
To distant regions journeying, there to claim
Deserted members and complete the frame."
We borrow the following sketch of Mr. B's j9M(9S(?pAzV«Z argument against
the popular doctrine of the resurrection of the body, from a notice of his work
in ' The New World:'—"Assuming this to be, in some sense or other, the
positive creed of Christendom, Prof. B. enters upon the consideration of it
first upon physiological grounds, and aims to show that the admitted fact of
the constant flux of particles in our present bodies throws an insuperable bar
in the way of the resurrection of the same bodies, inasmuch as the very idea
of sameness is precluded by the evanescent nature of the subject. The con-
ceded fact, moreover, that the constituent elements of our bodies are inces-
352 BUSH ON the resurrection.
santlJ passing into new and multifarious combinations, animal and vegetable,
presents another objection which, he affirms, though often urged, has never
been answered. The difficulty lies in establishing a conceivable relation be-
tween the body that dies and the body that is raised. This, he maintains,
on the common view is impossible, without the actual re-gathering and re-con-
struction of the dispersed relics of the original structure ; and this, if it were
effected, would constitute a material and not a spiritual body, which revela-
tion affirms to be the body of the resurrection. This point is argued with
the greatest acuteness and ingenuity."
In the following extracts w^e present the strongest point of Mr. B's scrip-
tural argument on the same subject. In his comments on Paul's comparison
of the resurrection to the growth of plants, in 1 Cor. 15: 35—37, he says
« We have here and in the sequel the most full, explicit, and systematic discus-
sion of the general subject of the resurrection, any where to be found in the
scriptures ; and whatever else may be taught by it, we think nothing can be
more unequivocally asserted, than that man does not rise again with the same
body which he had in this world. *****
"The grand inquiry evidently is, to ascertain ihQ 'precise 'point of the analogy
in the two cases, [i. e. of vegetation and the resurrection,] There is, in the
first place, a coincidence in the fact o{ dying. In both cases there is that pro-
cess of decay and dissolution which wo denominate death. In the grain the mass
of the farinaceous parts, except so much as may be necessary to the sustentation
of the future plant in its earlier stages, dies. And so the human body undergoes
a similar process sf dissolution. Yet here we must aim at precision ofideaai,
and note the points of difference as well as of similitude. The ' dying,' which
the apostle predicates of the seed, takes place subsequently to the sowing. But
the human body does not die after it is deposited in the dust. It is previously
dead—' for the body without the spirit is dead,'—and therefore cannot die again.
That which is absolutely dead cannot be more dead. Still there are items of
agreement sufficient to form a basis for the comparison, v/hich will appear as we
proceed. As there is something in the plant which dies, so there is also some-
thing which does not die. There is an enfolded germ, in which the essential
vitality of the seed is concentrated, and if this dies, it does not germinate, and
of course no plant springs up. We cannot, of course, suppose that the apostle
intended to say that this embryo died, although this is the very point of Thomas
Paine's railing accusation against the scripture doctrine of the resurrection, and
on the ground of which he calls St. Paul a fool ; contending that, if the the seed
really and literally died, no plant would grow, which is indeed true. But this
evidently is not the apostle's meaning ; and if the scepfic had ever put his hand
into a hill of young potatoes, he might have found to his discomfort, that there
was such a thing as vegetable life and death going on together ; and such a pen-
ance or penalty, would not perhaps have been very inappropriate to such paltry
and contemptible cavilling.
" We see, then, very clearly, the law of vegetable reproduction. The new
plant arises from the development of a germ in the old one. The vitality of the
seed adheres to the germ, and passes with it into the new organization which
succeeds ; and with the vitality coexists the identity of the plant. So it is that
we sow not the body which shall be. We sow a grain of wheat, and what is it
that comes up 1 Not the grain of wheat, but a blade of grass. It eventuates, in-
deed, in a head of wheat similar to that which is sown. But this is not the
BUSH ON THE RESURRECTION. 853
point of the apostle's argument. His reasoning, so to speak, does not rise above
the surface of the ground. He designs to show that that product which springs
out of the enrth, and appears on its bosom, is something different from that which
is put into the soil. If we call this the resurrection of the seed, it is perfectly
obvious that the term resurrection, in this connection, does not imply the re-
appearance of tlie same material mass, the same aggregation of particles, which
was deposited in the earth ; for the mass, with the exception of the germ, dies—
that is, is resolved into dust and its various constituent elements.
"Now, if this process is made use of by the apostle to illustrate the resurrection
of the human body, we do not see but we must be forced to the admission of some
kind of germ which is developed from the one that is the nucleus —the essential
vital principle—of the other, it will soon appear, indeed, that it is a germ of a
very peculiar nature, but still that there is something to be developed from the
dead body. If not, how does the illustration apply ? What is the point of com-
parison ? But if there be this embryo principle, is it m«^en"aZ ?—is it of the
same nature with the gross fabric from which it is developed ? This, it will be
perceived, is the grand question. The ancient Jews held that it was. They
contended that there was an immortal bone in the human body (called by them
Luz—ossiculum Luz) which is the germ of the resurrection-body. This bone,
they held, one might burn, boil, bake, pound, bruise, or attempt to bruise, by put-
ting it on the anvil and submitting it to the strokes of the sledge hammer, but all
in vain. No effect would be produced upon it. It was indestructible—incor-
ruptible—immortal. This bone was the seed of the future body. And this is,
in fact, though not in terms, the theory embraced by Drew in his work on the
resurrection. But as the most accurate researches of physiologists have failed
to discover any such bone in the system, and as the process of burning leaves no
such residuum of the corporeal structure, we are doubtless at liberty to set it
down among the thousand and one idle dreams of Rabbinical fiction, and put it
on the same shelf with the silly tradition of the Talmudical doctors, that at the
resurrection, the bodies of the Jews, in whatever part of the world they died,
will be rolled or transported under ground, through secret passages, and all emerge
to the light in the land of Canaan, with those of Abraham, and Isaac, and the
other patriarchs,
"Still there is undoubtedly a strong disposition among many good men to adhere
to this idea of a corj)oreal or material germ to be in some way developed from the
old body, and constituting the nucleus of the new one. But if this be so, what
and whore is it ? What becomes of it when the body is burnt to ashes, and
these ashes dissipated to the four winds ? Is there any evidence that can satisfy
an intelligent mind of the fact of such a latent material germ in the human body,
answering to the enfolded embryo of the future plant ? And if there is no evi-
dence of this, on what grounds do we hold it?
" But it will be said, if the apostle's analogy does not teach this, what does it
teach ? If the fair construction of his language does not imply that there is some-
thing developed out of the dead body which forms the link of connextion between
it and the resurrection. body, then it would be hard to show that it teaches any
thing on the subject, an alternative to which, with the qualifications and explan-
ations that follow, we readily subscribe. We cannot understand the apostle's
reasoning, unless he means to affirm that there is something of the nature of a
germ which emanates from the defunct body, and forms either the substance or
the nucleus of the future resurrection-body. But this principle we contend to be
what the apostle calls spiritual, that is, invisible, impalpable, refined, etheriai—
44
854 fitJSH 01^ THE REStRRECTlOl*?.
something that is essentially connected with vital operations—something that isi
exhaled with the dying breath, or, in other words, that goes forth from the body
before zt is consigned to the dust—for, after the body has mouldered away in the
grave, we perceive not how any germ or embryo is ever to emanate from it. It
is a something, of the interior nature of which all the philosophers in the world
know just as much as our readers, and no more. At the same time this igno-
tance does not stand in the way of the fact. And if this alleged fact be not ad-
mitted^ what is ? What will any man aflirm to be the real point of the apostle's
comparison ? If there is some gross material link of connexion between the
soul's present and future tenement, what is it ? Let it be ^inted out, and let it
be shown too that a vitalizing power is connected with it. For ourselves, we
confess it completely baffles our comprehension, and if any one cap enlighten our
darkness on the subject—if he will show us that there is any other than a spirit*
Hal germ evolved from the defunct body--=we will sit at his feet with the glad
docility of a learner who hungers and thirsts for instruction more than for his
necessary food. With our present light we must believe that the only germ in
the human bod^' answering to the germ in the plant, and upon which the apos-
tle's comparison is built, is the spiritual body itself. ^^
p, 174-179.
We hardly need say that we agree with Mr. B. thus far most heartily.
We have long argued as he does, from reason and from scripture, (at least
so far as the 15th of Corinthians is concerned,) against the notion of a res-
urrection of that body which dies. And we are not sure but that his doctrine
in relation to the nature of the body which is raised, is identical with ours.
We see nothing in the above extracts at variance with the following view
"Which we presented in the Perfectionist, Yol. III. No. 2 :
*'
Let us suppose that our mortal bodies are compounded of two substances^
Oiie of them visible, and the other invisible. The visible is but the shell or
garment of the invisible j like the outside case of an English watch. We
must not confound the inner substance with the soul^ but consider it a real
body corresponding in shape and function to the visible body, and in fact visi-*
ble itself to spiritual eyes* We know that sensation does not pertain to mere
dead m.atter ; and yet the susceptibility to sensation exists in every part of
our body* Now let the reader conceive of that substance which feels physi-
cal impressions, as separate from the visible matter with which it is interwo*
ven, and he will have our idea of what we call the inner body. Adopting
this supposition, what difficulty is there in conceiving that while the visible
part of the body^ at death^ dissolves and is scattered, never to be re-organ-
ized, the invisible, and in fact the only vital and essential part of the body
retains its organization and identity.*'
We suppose that Mr. B's ' spiritual germ' is the same thing as that which
We call the ' inner body.* So far then we agree with him, viz. that there is
to be no resurrection of the body which sees corruption ; and that the body
which is to be raised is a spiritual body, which, though invisible, exists in the
visible body before death.
The next question is, What is the nature of that change which places this
hody in the resurrection state ? We confess we have had much difficulty in
ascertaining Mr. B's answer to this question, not because his language in the
Beveral passages relating to it is obscure, but because some of those passages
BUSH OX THE RESURRECTIOIf. 355
seem to contradict others. We are safe however in saying that his prevailing
doctrine is that the change which constitutes the resurrection of the spiritual
body takes place at the death of the material body, and is the natural and
necessary result of the disengagement of the immortal germ from its earthly
tenement. Our readers will judge whether this is not a true representation
.of his views, from the following extracts
" It will have be'en seen, from the tenor of the preceding pages, that the argu-
ment from reason leads by fair and unforced inference to the conclusion that the
true doctrine of the resurrection is the doctrine of the developement of a spiritual
body at death from the bodies which we now inhabit, p. '^4.
" On this view the resurrection takes place when the spiritual body leaves the
material, which, as before remarked, we believe to be the true doctrine, p. 109,
"The position is impregnable, that the prevailing sense o^ resurrection in the
New Testament is simply that o^future existence, thefuture state or immortality.
The person—the sentient intelligent being—who now yields to the universal sen-
tence, and appears to become extinct, shall again be restored to life by entering
upon another sphere of existence, p. 145.
"Is the resurrection body assumed at once, or does a long interval of time
elapse before that event occurs? If the theory of a gross material germ were ot be
assumed as the true one, we can perceivethat there would be nothing in ti|p nature
of the ease to forbid the idea of a long interval intervening before it should be
quickened into its ultimate formation, The vital power of seeds often remains
dormant for an immensely long period ; and so it might be in regard to the germ
of a human body, provided we could have evidoice that any such germ existed,
and that a vital energy was associated with it. But here is the precise point of
the difficulty. We see no adequate grounds for believing that such a staminal
principle, material in its qualities, exists : and till this is shown, we are relieved
of the necessity of any other reference to the theory, than to demand of those
who hold it to answer this fair interrogatory : If the resurrection of the body,
which is deposited in the eai th, depends on the developement of a corporeal germ,
which no process of reasoning or experiment can show to exist, and the body itself
rs resolved back to its original elements, then on what basis rests the doctrine of
the resurrection of that body—the tabernacle which we have inhabited on earth T
It will not do to say that God can rebuild the original fabric, for this contradicts
and makes useless the doctrine of the material germ.
" We are inevitably thrown back, then, as far as we can see, on the theory, so
to term it, of the immediate developement and assumption of the spiritual body,
and its entrance at once upon the resurrection state. We know not how to con-
ceive of a pause—a long suspension—in the essential activity of the vital princi-
ple with which thought and consciousness are connected. We are not, we pre-
sume, addressing those who believe in the sleep of the soul after death, but those
who expect to retain their conscious existence in the world of spirits. Anc^if
our intelligent principle goes with the vital, which depends upon various hidden
ethereal agencies constantly operating around us, why shall we not infer that
our spiritual mode of being commences at once upon the abandonment of our
gross corruptible tenements? p, 180.
"Are we not justified in maintaining, that the only resurrection of the dead
ever to be experienced by man, is that of whicii these patriarchs [spoken of in
Matt, 22: 31, 32] have long since been the subjects? Is there more than one
kind of resurrection ? Does not our Lord's language establish this as the gen*
S56 BUSH ON THE RESURRECTION,
nine and legitimate sense of the term? Is it not exactly tantamount to future
state ? p, 208.
" So far as we are competent to form a judgment, the evidence from reason
prejmnderates in favor of the idea of the immediate entrance at death upon the
resurrection-state, p. 237.
*'
The resurrection and the judgment actually resolve themselves into a law of
our nature ; our physical, psychical and moral constitution is such that we really
and neci'ssarily rise at death into the true resurrection." p. 345.
We will now show that INIr. B. himself contradicts and subverts the doc-
trine of the above extracts.
1. The reader will perceive that, in one case at least, he represents the
New Testament doctrine of the resurrection as simply that of a future exist-
ence. It is not therefore without some inconsistency, that in other cases he
brings into his definition the accessory idea of the development of the spirit-
ual body, unless he assumes that the existence of the person is inseparable
from the spiritual body. But leaving this difficulty, and admitting his com-
pound definition of the resurrection, viz. , that it is a future existence in a
spiritual body, it is evident that the wicked, as w^ell as the righteous, enter
upon a resurrection in this sense at death. He admits the future existence
of the Avisked, and their existence in spiritual bodies, i. e. their resurrection
according to the above definition. And yet he teaches throughout his book
that the resurrection is not predicated of the wicked at all !
—and in his zeal
for the estabhshment of this position, he explains away, by means which none
but those who are deeply versed in the art of special pleading can conceive
of, all such texts as the following :
'
Many that sleep in the dust of the earth
shall awake, some to everlasting life, and some to shame and everlasting con-
tempt,^—' All that are in the graves shall hear his voice, and shall come forth
they that have done good unto the resurrection of life, and they that have
done evil unto the resurrection of damnation.^—' There shall be a resurrec-
tion of the dead, both of the just and the unjust.'* Now if he adheres to
this part of his doctrine, viz. the denial of a resurrection to the Avicked',
then his previous doctrine, viz. that the idea of a resurrection is simply that
of a future existence in a spiritual body, is subverted. Another ingredient
must be added to the compound by which he defines the resurrection. He
must say that it is the future existence of the righteous in spiritual bodies.
Since existence after death, and the development of spiritual bodies are
equally predicable of the righteous and the wicked, if the wicked, as Mr. B.
holds, are not subjects of the resurrection, then the essence of the resur-
rection Hes not in a future existence, nor in the development of spiritual
bodies, as the above extracts teach, but in that spiritual life which dis-
tinguishes the righteous and the wicked.
Much of this confusion results from the theory which Mr. B. assumes and
•attempts to establish at the outset of his biblical argument, that there is but
one kind of anastasis or resurrection spoken of in the New Testament, and
that that is the resurrection which is simply opposed to the Sadducean notion
of future non-existence. He begins with deducing his definition of anastasis
from those passages in which that word is manifestly used in its lowest and
BUSH ON THE RESURRECTION. 357
most general sense, as a resurrection or a standing up from annihilation^
such as Matt. 22: 31, 32, (where Christ proves that there is a resurrection,
from the fact that the patriarchs were aUve,) and ICor. 15: 12, &c., (where
Paul is manifestly arguing against those who think that the dead cease to
exist,) and then assumes that this is the only sense of the word, so far at
least that he altogether neglects to recognize any other. Indeed he asks in
one of the preceding extracts, as triumphantly as though a negative answer
were out of the question, "Are we not justified in maintaining, that the only
resurrection of the dead ever to be experienced by man, is that of which
these patriarchs have long since been the subjects ? Is there more than one
kind of resurrection ?" We answer. Most certainly there is more than one
or two kinds of resurrection spoken of in the New Testament. As an un-
questionable instance of the use of the word anastasis in two senses in the
same passage, we may cite Heb. 11: 35. '
Women received their dead
raised to life again, [^ex anastaseos^ and others were tortured, not accepting
dehverance, that they might obtain a better resurrection,' [ajiastaseos.'] In
the first case anastasis means a resurrection from the disembodied state to
animal life, and in the second it refers to the resurrection of the righteous
after death to a state of happiness. This instance alone clears the field of
Mr. B's assumption, and we may now take the liberty to propose a different
view of the word in question. Anastasis, as Mr. B. says, properly means a
standing up. Of course it may be used in as many different senses, as there
are states which men may be said to stand vi^from. It is used in the New
Testament in at least the six following ways. 1. It is a standing up from
non-existence, as in Matt. 22: 31, 32, and 1 Cor. 15: 12. In this sense the
wicked, as well as the righteous, stand up after death ; and if Matt. 22: 31,
32 proves that the patriarchs were in the ultimate resurrection when Moses
wrote, then according to Mr B's own theory the wicked also were in the same
resurrection, for they were in existence, and that is all he professes to infer
from the language of Moses concerning the patriarchs. 2. Anastasis is a
standing up from Hades, i. e. a return from the world of spirits into the an-
imal body. It is used in this sense whenever it occurs in connexion with cases
of visible resurrection, such as those of the widow's son, Lazarus, the damsel
that was raised, &c. Anastasis (or some equivalent word) is used in a
variety of instances as it is used in Heb. 11: 35. This is certainly a very
different standing up from that of the patriarchs. 3. Anastasis is a stand-
ing up from both Hades and the mortal state. It is used in this sense when-
ever it is applied to Christ's resurrection. He arose out of Hades and in
this respect his resurrection was like that of Lazarus, and others that were
raised previously. But he did not continue in his animal body as they did ;
he assumed the immortal body, and ascended to the presence of God. This,
so far as objective changes are concerned, is the model of the universal res-
urrection. The just and the unjust must come up from Hades, and from the
mortal state, in immortal bodies, and appear before God. (See Rev. 20: 12,
13.) 4. Anastasis is sometimes used with exclusive reference to the resur-
rection of the just, as in Luke 20: 35, and then, in addition to the idea of
ascension from Hades and the mortal state, in the immortal body to the pres-
ence of God,, which belongs to the general resurrection, it has the accessory
358 BUSH ON THE RESURRECTION.
idea of a permanent happy existence in the presence of Grod—i. e. it is a
stcmdiJig up from Hades^ mortality^ and the second death. 5. Anastasis
is sometimes used with particular reference to the resurrection of the wicked,
as in John 5: 29, and then, it is a standing up from Hades and mortality
into condemnation and the final lake offire. 6. Behevers in this world are
represented as being in a kind of anastasis—' risen with Christ.' (See Rom.
6: 5, Col. 3: 1.) This is a standing up from sin and spiritual death—an
incipient operation of the power which shall ultimately raise them out of
Hades, mortality, and final condemnation.
Now it is not to be wondered that Mr. Bush, after crushing all these kinds
of resurrection into one, and that the lowest in importance, viz. the anastasis
of the patriarchs, and after discoursing about this as '
the resurrection,' ' the
true doctrine of resurrection,' &c., should find himself involved at last in many
and great absurdities. We expect to show before we have done, that the
self-contradiction noticed above is among the least of these absurdities.
2. If the true doctrine of the resurrection is simply that of a future exis-
tence in spiritual bodies, as Mr. Bush again and again affirms or intimates,
then it is obvious that the resurrection necessarily takes place in all cases at
death, and no room is left for the doctrine of an intermediate state either be-
fore or since the resurrection of Christ. This is the prevailing doctrine of the
book before us. That the reader may be sure we do not misrepresent it, we
call attention again to the last of the foregoing citations :
"The resurrection and the judgment actually resolve themselves into a law of
our nature ; our physical, psychical, and moral constitution is such, that we
really and necessarily rise at death into the true resurrection." jp. 345.
If the resurrection is a '
law of our nature,' it is a law of human nature,
and took effect as well in Adam's day as in ours. If we ' really and necessa-
rily rise at death into the true resurrection,' the Old Testament saints cer-
tainly did the sam.e. Now let the reader compare the following concession
(which occurs in a note on the 22oth page of Mr. B's book) with the above
doctrine, and see if there is any possibility of keeping them from flatly con-
tradicting each other :
" It seems capable of proof, that the state from which the expectant souls of
the Old Testament saints were delivered by Christ, is the state of which the
term Paradise is more properly to be understood, as a state of real but imperfect
happiness. Accordingly, we see in this the ground of our Savior's assurance to
the dying thief, that he should that day be with him in paradise ; not in heaven,
to which it does not appear that he ascended till after his resurrection. This
would bring the dying thief into the train of the ascending Savior ; and it does
not seem probable that he would promise him an entrance into heaven before he
entered there himself.
"On the view here exhibited, the doctrine of an intermediate state, subse-
quent to the resurrection of Christ, must be considered to vanish quite away.
The sentiments of the primitive Christian fathers on that subject, appear to have
been based upon scriptural intimations which have respect only to those who
lived under the former dispensation. To them there was indeed an intermediate
state between death and the resurrection, i. e. the resurrection of Christ ; but
we are unable to perceive upon what grounds such a state can be maintained in
reference to the saints of the New Testament era."
BtSH ON THE RESURRECTION.
'
359
The first sentence of the second paragraph in this passage is really curious,
if it is considered that the whole drift of Mr. B's argument, rational and exe-
getical, in the rest of his book, is opposed to the doctrine of an intermediate
state altogether. We would substitute for that sentence, the following :
'
On
the view here exhibited, the doctrine of an intermediate state, previous
to the resurrection of Christy must be considered to be fully admitted.' We
are taught by Mr. B. himself, that the Old Testament saints (including of
course Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, whose resurrection is elsewhere constantly
assumed, and is in fact the basis of a great part of his doctrine,) were, till
the resurrection of Christ, m an '
expectant state,' a state of '
imperfect hap-
piness,' '
not in heaven,' but in that '
paradise' where the thief went on the
day of his death, and where Christ was in the interval between his death and
his resurrection. In other words, we are taught by the same man who insists
that the true resurrection is a '
law of nature,' and necessarily takes place in
all cases at death, that there was no true resurrection of the Old Testament
saints till the advent of Christ ! If it had been necessary we should have an-
swerered Mr. Bush's general theory, by proving this very doctrine of an in-
termediate state. He has saved us the trouble. The confusions and contrar
dictions which crowd upon the mind in view of the clashing doctrines which
Mr. B. teaches, are so stupendous that we shrink from meddling Avith their
details, and gladly leave them to the ponderings of our readers.
Mr. Bush's concession allows us to assume that the Old Testament saints
remained in Hades, and of course that there was no resurrection in the most
important sense of that word, till after the resurrection of Christ. This as-
sumption leads directly to the inquiry—At what time did the resurrection
of those expectant souls take place ? Mr. B's prevailing doctrine is, that
the true and only resurrection takes place at the death of each individual.
Of course he has little to say about any particular crisis of simultaneous
resurrection, except to show that he thinks the idea is unfounded. But, as
we adopt his incidental doctrine of an intermediate state, and not his prevail-
ing theory, we account it a matter of importance to ascertain definitely when
the intermediate state of the Old Testament saints ended.
The passage which first claims our attention in this inquiry is Dan. 12: 2,
*-*' Many of them that sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake, some to
everlasting life, and some to shame and everlasting contempt.' It will be
recollected by those who have read our criticism of Mr. Bush's interpretation
of this passage, in The Perfectionist, Vol. IV., No. 6, that his doctrine was
that it does not refer to a literal resurrection, but to a '
symbolical revives-
cence,' i. e., i\iQ future conversion, of the Jews. In reply to this, we pointed
to the fact that the resurrection in question manifestly stands in close connec-
tion with '
a time of trouble such as never was,' (see ver. 1,) and insisted
that, as the period of the destruction of Jerusalem is expressly characterized
by Christ in Matt. 24: 21 as such a time,—and as two such times are impos-
sible,—the resurrection of ' many' must have taken place in connection with
that catastrophe. Mr. Bush in his present work concedes all this, and of
course abandons his former special application of the text to the future con-
version of the Jews. He also admits that it refers primarily to a literal
860 BUSH ON THE RESURRECTION.
resurrection. So far he has advanced. But now he teaches that it refers
to the resurrection of those saints that 'came out of their graves and appeared
to many' immediately after Christ's resurrection. See Matt. 27: 52. He
thinks this event stands near enough to the destruction of Jerusalem, to have
been regarded as synchronical from the prophet's point of view. This inter-
pretation is a little more plausible than the former, but still is liable to fatal
objections. In the first place it is improbable, on the face of the case, that
an inspired oracle, after speaking of ' a time of trouble,' should affirm that a
resurrection should occur 'at that time' (see ver. 1) which, in fact, was to
take place forty years before. The reader will observe that the order of the
annunciations in Dan. 12: 1, 2, indicates that the deliverance and resurrec-
tion Avas to come after^ rather than before the '
time of trouble.' * Michael
shall stand up, . . . there shall be a time of trouble such as never was, . . .
and [as an accompaniment or an immediate sequel] at that time thy people
shall be delivered, . . . and many that sleep in the dust of the earth shall
awake.' Any interpretation that places the resurrection before the time of
trouble, makes this language very unnatural ; and an interpretation that inter-
poses forty years between the two events, makes it totally false.
Again, the resurrection immediately connected with the rising of Christ,
was a resurrection of saints only ; whereas it is predicted in Daniel that at
the time specified some should awake '
to everlasting life, and some to shame
and everlasting contem.pt,'* Mr. B. still insists on changing the construction
of the language, by substituting 'these' and 'those' for 'some'' and 'some^ so
as to make the awakening refer only to the saints, leaving the Avicked to sleep
to everlasting shame and contempt, without any awakening. We still insist
that the change of words which he proposes, cannot properly make any change
of the sense. However this may be, we find in Mr. B's present work a con-
cession which places the authority of Christ himself on the side of the com-
mon view of the passage, viz. that view which attaches the awakening to the
wicked as well as the righteous. In his remarks on John 5: 28, 29, where
Christ announces that the righteous shall come forth '
to the resurrection of
life, and they that have done evil to the resurrection of damnation ^ Mr. B.
says
—" It is to us unquestionable that the Savior had in his eye [in this an-
nunciation] the oft-quoted passage of Daniel 12: 2, '
And many of them that
sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake, some to everlasting life, and some
to shame and everlasting contempt.' The phraseology is somewhat varied, but
the general identity of import is obvious." p. 239. What more do we need than
this admission, to prove beyond all question the falsehood of Mr. B's criti-
cism, and establish the point that the awaking in Dan. 12: 2 pertains to the
wicked as well as the righteous ? The comingforth to resurrection in Christ's
annunciation, corresponds to the awaJdng in Daniel's ; and Christ expressly
says that they that have done evil shall comeforth to the resurrection of dam-
nation; I. e. he interprets Daniel's language as meaning that '
some shall
awahe to everlasting shame and contem,pt.^ Will Mr. B. take the ground
that Christ, as well as the rest of the world, misunderstood the passage, and
in re-echoing it, gave it a wrong import ? If we understand his remarks on
John 5: 28, 29, he does take the ground that Christ's language is to be in-
BUSH ox THE RESURRECTION. 361
terpreted by reference to Dan. 12: 2 ; and then assuming that his criticism
has ejected from the latter passage all reference to a resurrection of the -wicked,
he proceeds to cut the former by the measure he has thus prepared, i. e. he
shaves olf 'the resurrection of damnation' as an illegitimate excrescence! Here
are two confessedly parallel texts ; one is from the mouth of Christ, is per-
fectly lucid in its language, and taken by itself, unquestionably teaches the
doctrine of the resurrection of the wicked ; the other is from the mouth of
Daniel, and its language, though so plain as to have been generally understood
as teaching the same doctrine, may be conceded to be doubtful. In this state
of the case, Mr. Bush attaches his own peculiar construction to the doubtful
text, and then argues from that construction against the manifest meaning of
the other ! He reverses the laws of hermeneutics, and reasons from things
uncertain against things certain ! Instead of allowing Christ to interpret
Daniel, he first interprets Daniel himself, and then makes Daniel correct the
language of Christ ! The true method of reasoning in the case is this : It is
certain that Christ, in John 5: 28, 29, teaches the doctrine of the resurrec-
tion of the wicked ; and, inasmuch as he evidently re-echoes, and interprets
the prediction in Dan. 12: 2, it is therefore certain that that prediction also
teaches the doctrine of the resurrection of the wicked. We see not how this
can be regarded by a candid mind as any thing less than an absolute demon-
stration.
This point being established, it is manifest that the resurrection immediate-
ly connected with the rising of Christ, did not correspond to the terms of the
prediction in Dan. 12: 2, inasmuch as it was a resurrection only of saints.
The text therefore is set free from all the incumbrances of Mr. Bush's criti-
cisms, and stands forth again in its natural shape, pointing directly to the time
of the destruction of Jerusalem, as the period when many of the dead came
forth, some to the resurrection of life, and some to the resurrection of damna-
tion.
We proceed now to show that the witnesses of the New Testament confirm
this testimony of Daniel. The first passage to which we call attention, is
1 Cor. 15: 20—23. '
But now is Christ risen from the dead, and become
the first-fruits of them that slept. For since by man came death, by man
came also the resurrection of the dead. For as in Adam all die, even so in
Christ shall all be made alive. But every man in his own order ; Christ the
first-fruits ; afterward they that are Christ's at his coming.' On this Mr.
B. remarks
" As the first-fruits of the harvest are a sample of the whole, and being pre-
sented in the temple denominate the remainder pure and holy, so Christ, who,
after his resurrection, was presented in the heavenly temple, may justly be re-
garded as an exemplar and type of the state of those who fall asleep in him, and
an argument that they are not, as dead bodies were, among the polluted things
of the world, but holy to the Lord, and admitted to his presence. The idea is
not so much that Christ was the first, in the order of time, who rose from tlio
dead—as we are expressly taught, both in the Old Testament and the New, (hat
prior cases of resurrection had repeatedly occurred —but the first in rank, the
author, the procuring cause, of the resurrection of the saints. But tlie whole har-
vest began to be gathered in immediately after the presentation of the first-fruits,
45
862 utjsii ojT TiiD nEstRREcTioN,
ftWd it would be a very violent construction of the analogy to suppose it to imply
that hundreds or thousands of years nriight elapse between the resurrection of the
grand Precursor and that of the mass of his followers. The true view of the
tnatter is clearly indicated by the sequel, in which we are taught, that this resus-
citation of the dead, this investiture of the disciples of Christ with immortality,
proceeds in a manner analagous with the successive generations of the animal
and mortal family. Who derive their first life from Adam. As this first family is
not formed at once^ nor dissolved at once ; as the members of it have risen into
existence in succession ; so neither will the other family be completed at once.
Every man of this family is to be quickened < in his own order,' or as he dieSf
from Christ the first-fruits down through the lapse of ages to the last generation
of believers who shall be found alive at his coming." p, 173.
The reader will perceive by this specimen, how freely Mr. B., in the car
of his theory, rides over and tramples down all obstructing texts. The only
reason which he suggests for setting aside the natural meaning of the term
^first-fruits^'' is, that ' we are expressly taught both in the Old Testament
and the New that prior cases of resurrection had repeatedly occurred.' It
is true that prior cases of return from Hades to Mortahty are recorded in the
Old and New Testaments ; but it is not true that any such resurrection as
that of Christy viz., a rising out of both Hades and Mortality, had occurred
before his resurrection. This is indirectly admitted by Mr. B. himself, inas-
much as he concedes that ' the Old Testament saints' were in an intermediate
Btate below the resurrection, till the rising of Christ. The only reason there-
fore on which the criticism in question can possibly be founded, is taken away,
and the criticism of course falls to the ground*
The word translated ' first-fruits,' occurs six times in tlie New Testament,
(besides the instances in the passage under consideration,) viz., in Rom. 8;
23, 11: 16, 16: 5, 1 Cor. 16: 15, James 1: 18, Bev. 14: 4 ; and in every
instance designates something that is first in order of time. Mr. B. says,
*'
The whole harvest began to be gathered immediately after the presentation
of the filrst-fruits, and it would be a very violent construction of the analogy
to suppose it to imply) that hundreds or thousands of years might elapse be-
tween the resurrection of the grand Precursor and that of the mass of his
followers." Let the reader consider how much greater violence is done to
the analogy, by supposing, as Mr. B. does, that a part of the resurrection-
harvest had been gathered thousands of years before the presentation of the
first-fruits ! Even if a long period should elapse between the resurrection of
the precursor and that of the mass of his followers, it would leave the truth
of the expression-^^ the first-fruits'—untouched. But if some had been raised
long before the precursor, (!) thei/ would have been the '
first-fruits,' and the
application of that term to him would be false.
The natural import of the expression ' first-fruits,' in this passage, is fur-
ther shown to be the true one, by the following collateral testimonies. In Rev.
1: 6) John calls Christ ^
the first-begotten from the dead ;^ in Colossians
1: 18, Paul calls him '
the first-born from the dead;^ and in Acts 26: 23,
]Paul declares that his testimony to small and great was that Christ '
should
Uuflfcr, and that he should be the first that should rise from the dead.''
Christ being then the *
first-fruits,' and the Old Testament saints of course
BUSH ON THE RESURRECTION, 863
being in Hades up to the time of his resurrection, it is evident that the as-
ssinbly doscribed by the phrase—' they that are Christ's'—in the 23d verse,
included those saints. Paul declares that the resurrection of that assembly
was to take place '
Ohrisfs coming.^ We cannot persuade ourselves that it
is necessary to undertake a serious refutation of Mr. B's comment on the
words—' every man in his own order. ^ The idea that this signifies that every
man rises 'as he dies,' is stultified by what immediately follows. Paul pro-
ceeds to state exphcitly what he means by 'every man's own order,' ^ Christ,
the first fruits,'—this is Christ's order ;
'
afterward they that are Christ's at
his coming ;'
this is their order. The meaning plainly is, that Christ rises
first, and afterward, at the period of the second advent, the dead in Christ
rise simultaneously. In order then that we may ascertain when the first great
simultaneous resurrection, including that of the Old Testament saints, took
place, we have only to ascertain the time of Christ's second coming,
Mr. Bush's theory of the second coming, is akin to the Universalist and
Grerman theories. He admits that the language in which that event is pre»
dieted, is so framed as to appear to teach that the advent would take place
within the Hfetime of the generation living at the first coming. He admits
that the apostles and primitive disciples so understood it, and iij all their
allusions to the second advent, spoke of it as very near. But he thinks they
were in a mistake, and that we, having better data, are qualified to judge and
correct them. He admits that the second advent began to take place at least
as soon as the destruction of Jerusalem, but insists that it was not a definite,
limited event, but an extended coming, stretching forward from the destruc-
tion of Jerusalem to the end of prophecy. Of course he denies that any
personal coming was promised, and, like the Universalists, resolves the second
advent into a spiritual and providential coming.
With this theory, it is easy to see how Mr. Bush can carry along his doc»
trine that the resurrection of every man takes place as he dies. He leaves
out of account the generations of the Jewish dispensation, whose resurrection
he has provided for in two ways, viz : 1, by supposing according to ]m pre-
vailing theory that they rose as they died ; and, 2, by supposing that if they
did not rise thus, they were released from liinho at the period of Christ's res«
urrection. Then in regard to the generations of the Christian dispensation,
his doctrine is, that as the second advent was a continuous event, so the res^
urrection is continuous, occurring at each person's death. On this scheme
we submit the following remarks.
1. It appears from a statement in the latter part of the chapter containing
the passage under consideration, (viz. 1 Cor. 15; 20—23,) and also from a
similar passage in 1 Thess. 4: 16, 17, that at the very time when the resur-
rection of the dead at the comuig of Christ, takes place, the chafige andtrans^
lation of the living also takes place. If then the second coming began as
early as the destruction of Jerusalem, and has extended from that time to
this ; and if the resurrection of the dead has been a continuous process, cor=
responding to this second coming, then the change and translation of the living
has Hkewise been going on during the ages since the destructioa ofJerusalem*
This, we presume, Mr, B, will shrink from maintaining.
364 BUSH ON THE IIESURRECTION.
2. The plausibility of the theory before iis depends entirely on the denial
of a personal second coming. For if a personal coining is admitted, then
some definite time must be assigned to it, and the theory of an extended com-
ing is at an end. If Paul, in saying that ' they that are Christ's shall rise
at his coming,' refers to a spiritual or providential coming which may extend
over a tract of ages, then Mr. B's doctrine of a successive resurrection of in-
dividuals, (which in fact resolves the doctrine of the second coming into the
old notion that death is the coming of the Son of man,) may stand. But if
Paul refers to ^personal coming, which has a definite, limited space on the
map of time, then the resurrection is simultaneous, and Mr. Bush's theory is
subverted. Now it is a singular fact, that on this important point, he offers
exegetical proof, and enters into no discussion. He asserts his belief that a
'•second personal advent was never promised,' (p. 360,) and there leaves the
matter. He comments largely on 1 Thess. 4: 13—18, and gives his views
of every part of the passage, except the first part of the 16th verse
—' The
Lord himself shall descend from heaven ivith a shout.'* This he leaves un-
touched. He professes to notice every text in the Old Testament and the
New, that has any important bearing on this subject, and yet never alludes
to Acts 1: 11,—' This same Jesus which is taken tip from you into heaven^
SHALL SO COME IN LIKE MANNER AS YE HAVE SEEN HIM GO INTO HEA-
VEN.' Both of these passages distinctly predict ^personal coming. If the
former may be disposed of,- as Mr. B. disposes of many other inconvenient
texts, by attributing it to the erroneous views of the apostles, this cannot be
done with the latter ; for it is tlie word of two angels. As Mr. Bush, in
avoiding all notice of these texts, has in fact left the case to go against him
hy default., w^e are at liberty to assume that a personal second advent was
promised, and was legitimately expected by the primitive disciples. The
doctrine then of a continuous second coming, and of course of a continuous
resurrection, vanishes away. The question returns, When did Christ come
again, as he ascended ? This is the true coming Qjarousia) and appearing
(^epiphaneia) of the New Testament. This could not occupy a long period
of time, and with this definite event the resurrection was immediately con-
nected.
3. If Mr. Bush were compelled (as we think he will be) to admit the doc-
trine of a personal second coming, we see not how he could avoid the conclu-
sion that it took place in connection with the destruction of Jerusalem ; since
he teaches already that the second coming began at the period of that event.
Bat we judge from some of his remarks, that he might prefer to assign the
second advent to the period of the sounding of the seventh trumpet, when Hhe
kingdoms of this world become the kingdoms of our Lord and of his Christ.'
Rev. 11: 15. This would carry it forward far beyond the destruction of Jeru-
salem, to the time to which we assign the second judgment. He does in fact
carry forward the predicted change of the living saints to that time ; and as
the resurrection of the dead, and indeed the second coming of Christ are rep-
resented as synchronical with the change of the living, we see no reason wliy
all these events should not be carried forward together. But we will allow
Mr. B. to state his doctrine in his own words
BUSH ON THE RESURRECTION. 865
"Paul undoubtedly supposed that this change [spoken of in 1 Cor. 15: 52,]
was to occur simultaneously with that promised advent of the Savior that was
to be ushered in during the lifetime of that generation—a supposition built upon
the letter of numerous predictions, but which the event has shown to be, m this
respect, erroneous. The fact that forms the burden of the announcement has
not yet taken place, but is of still future occurrence. It is to come to pass at
the period so frequently alluded to in the prophets, as to be distinguished by
something that is here termed the ' sounding of the last trumpet ;'
and this is
doubtless identical with the last in the series of the seven apocalyptical trumpets,
Rev. 11: 15, which announces the downfall of earthly dominion, and the king-
doms of this world becoming the kingdoms of our Lord and his Christ." p. 200,
The onty reason here assigned for imputing error to the apostle, and for
carrying forward the change of the living saints to the end of the kingdoms
of this world, is the assumption that the '
last trump' in 1 Cor. 15: 52, '
is
doubtless identical with the last in the series of the seven apocalyptical trumpets,
Rev. 11: 15.' Now let the reader observe, first, that in 1 Cor. 15: 52, the
resurrection of the dead is quite as closely connected with the '
last trump'
as the change of the living ; and secondly, that the personal descent of Christ
from heaven is also connected with the same '
last trump' in 1 Thess. 4: 16.
' The Lord himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of
the archangel, and with the trump of God.^ There is no possibility of sepa-
rating either of these three events, viz. the change, the resurrection, and the
personal advent, from the ' last trump'; and if the '
last trump' is identical
with the seventh trumpet of the Apocalypse, then the sounding of that trum-
pet is the signal of all those events. This view alone involves Mr B's theory
in inextricable confusion, as he places the beginning of the second coming and
the resurrection back as far as the destruction of Jerusalem. But the very
foundation of this hypothesis, confused as it is, is false. The '
last trump' in
1 Cor. 15: 52, is 7iot identical with the seventh trumpet of the Apocalypse.
This will we proceed to show.
The Apocalypse was not written till many years after Paul wrote to the
Corinthians. There is no evidence that he had any knowledge of the seven
trumpets of John's vision. In the expression, ^
the last trump,' he manifestly
alluded, not to a trumpet of a subsequent revelation, but to the trumpet of
which Christ spoke in Matt. 24: 31. After predicting the coming of the Son
of man immediately after the destruction of Jerusalem, the prophecy pro-
ceeds—' And he shall send his angels with a great sound of a trumpet^ and
shall gather together his elect from the four winds,' &c. Here is the coming
of Christ in the same juxtaposition with the sounding of the trumpet as in
1 Thess. ^4: 16. Moreover, as the gathering of the elect is manifestly only
another expression for the raising them from the dead, i. e. gathering them
out of Hades and Mortality, it is evident that the resurrection of the dead
and the change of the living is also immediately connected with the sounding
of the trumpet in Matt. 24: 31, just as it is in 1 Cor. 15: 52, and 1 Thess.
4: 16. Now if we can prove that Christ, in Matt. 24: 31, did not refer to
the seventh trumpet of the Apocalypse, then it will be proved that Paul in
ICor. 15: 52, and 1 Thess. 4: 16, did not refer to that trumpet. This point
^^^ BUSH ON THE RESURRECTION.
might be settled by simply appealing to the fact that the trumpet of which
Christ speaks was to sound immediately after the tribulation of the destruc-
tion of Jerusalem, and within the lifetime of the generation living when the
prophecy was uttered ;
(see ver. 29 & 34 ;) whereas the seventh trumpet of
the Apocalypse is confessedly to be referred to a far later period. But Mr.
Bush, hke many others, has a way of evading the force of the declaration
' This generation shall not pass till all these things be fulfilled.' Because a
long tract of time is incidentally alluded to in the parallel passage in Luke
21: 24, (viz. ' the times of the Gentiles,' during which the holy city is to be
trodden down,) he feels at liberty to except from the above declaration any
of the items going before it, which he chooses to place beyond the time of a
generation from the period of Christ's ministry. We will therefore adopt
another method of proof. In the 6th and 7th chapters of Revelation we have
a description of Christ's second coming entirely parallel to the prediction in
Matt. 24. It concludes, as the latter does, with an announcement of the
ingathering of the elect from the four winds, occupying the whole of the 7th
chapter. Of course the trumpet, which Christ makes the signal of the gath-
ering, is included, though it is not mentioned, in the transactions of John's
vision. Its place is at the beginning of the 7th chapter. Now the whole of
the transactions of the two chapters in question, take place at the successive
opening of the first six seals. The appearing of the Son of man, and the
gathering of the elect belong to the sixth seal. The trumpet therefore of
which Christ speaks in Matt. 24: 31, sounded in the interval between the
sixth and seventh seals. This was before the sounding of any of the seven
trumpets of John's vision. It was not till the opening of the seventh seal,
that the angels having the seven trumpets '
prepared themselves to sound.'
See chap. 8: 1, 2. Thus it is proved that Paul's '
last trump' was separa-
ted from the seventh trumpet of Rev. 11: 15, by the whole interval between
the sixth seal and the final period of judgment, i. e. by more than the whole
time occupied hj all the trumpets. This demonstration must hold good till
at is shown that Matt. 24, and Rev. 6 and 7, do not refer to the same events
iind the same period of time. This can never be done.
Why then does Paul call the signal of the gathering of the elect, the *
last
trump ?' Simply because it was the last trump of the Jewish dispensation.
On the same principle, the times immediately preceding the destruction of
Jerusalem were called the '
last days ;'
not as being the last days of the world's
^existence, for the '
times of the Gentiles' w^ere to follow ; but as being the
last days of the Jewish aion. The trumpet which gathered the elect after
the destruction of Jerusalem, was the '
last trump' of Judaism, and immedi-
ately preceded a resurrection and judgment, i. e. a consummation of destiny
to ' manj^' Afterwards, during the times of the Gentiles, another series of
trumpets were to sound ; and the last of these is the signal of another and
£nal resurrection and judgment.
Having thus found that the '
last trump' was to sound immediately after
the destruction of Jerusalem, it is made plain that Paul's statement of the
order of the resurrection in 1 Cor. 15: 28, places the rising of '
them that
are Christ's,' at the very time where Daniel places the ^awaking of many,'
§ 52. THE KEYS OF HELL AND OF DEATH.
CiiRiST sajs, ' I am he that liveth, and was dead ; and, behold, I am alive
for evermore. Amen ; and have the keys of hell and of death.'' Rev. 1: 18.
One who has the key of an enclosm^e, has the command of it, and can release
those who are held captive in it. The evident import of the above words, is,
that Christ, by his death and resurrection, has obtained the command of the
two enclosures denominated hell and death, so that he has power to release
their prisoners. The word translated hell^ is hades in the original, and simply
signifies the abode of the dead. In 1 Cor. 15: 55 it is translated grave,
which, if it is understood as referring to spirits instead of bodies, is a better
rendering than hell. Hades is not necessarily a place o'i punishment, as hell
is usually understood to be.
Paul says, '
Christ both died and rose and revived that he might he Lord
both of the dead and the living.'' Rom. 14: 9. We regard this as entirely
parellel to the former text. It declares the effect of Christ's death and resur-
rection. That effect is the acquirement of the command of the two great
departments of humanity, the living and the dead. To be the Lord of the
Hving and the dead, is the same thing as to have the keys of hades and of
death. Hades is the enclosure of the dead ; and by having its key, Christ
is Lord of the dead. It follows then that death is the enclosure of the living.
This will not seem incongruous if we substitute for death, the word mortality.
This world is properly the world of mortality. ' Through fear of death men
are all their lifetime subject to bondage.' They are always exposed to death.
Their life is in fact a protracted death. When they are dead they pass out
of the enclosure of mortality into a state that is not exposed to death. The
' king of terrors' reigns over this world only—not over hades.
This interpretation of the words death and hell will be confirmed by refer-
ence to another parallel passage, viz. 1 Cor. 15: 51 b^. Paul says, '
We
shall not all sleep, but w^e shall all be changed ; in a moment, in the twinkling
of an eye, at the last trump : for the trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall
be raised incorruptible, and w^e shall be changed.' Here we have a predic-
ted manifestation of the fact that Christ is Lord of both the living and the
dead—that he has tJie keys of hades and mortality. In raising the dead, he
would prove that he had the key of hades ; in changing the living from a
mortal to an immortal state, he would prove that he had the key of mortahty,..
and could release its prisoners. Accordingly Paul, in view of this twofold
manifestation of Christ's Lordship, breaks forth in exultation thus :
' death,,
where is thy sting ? hades, where is thy victory ?' The designations here
given to the two great enclosures which Christ was to open at his coming,
are the very same with those in the passage first cited. Rev. 1: 18. As
Christ says he has the key of death, so Paul exclaims ' death where is thy
sting V with manifest reference to the predicted defeat of death by the change
of the living saints. As Christ says he has the key of hades, so Paul exclaims,
'
hades, where is thy victory '? with manifest reference to the release of
the dead.
3G8 KEYS OF HELL AND OF DEATH.
It is plainly implied in the fact that Christ obtained the keys of mortality
and hades by his death and resurrection, that these enclosures, or rather the
one great enclosure in which they are subdivisions, had never before been
opened. If any of the human race ever came out of the death-and-hades
prison, before Christ obtained its key,—if there was any other way than
through the door which his death and resurrection opened, by which men
might 'climb up' into heaven, what need was there of his obtaining the key
at such a cost?
INIen had indeed passed and repassed from one of the great apart-
ments to the other, in various Avays, before the advent of Christ. By
natural death, the mass of mankind had been from the beginning of the world
successively passing from mortality into hades. In two instances at least
those of Enoch and Elijah—this transit had taken place by a miraculous pro-
cess without natural death. There is no evidence that these persons passed
into any other abode than that which is common to the dead. The only pecu-
liarity in their case was the extraordinary manner of the passage. On the
other hand, in a few instances, such as that of Lazarus, the dead had-'returned
from hades into mortality. They did not rise from the dead in any such
sense as that in which the dead were to rise at the coming of Christ ; for
they resumed their mortal bodies, and therefore only re-entered the enclosure
of mortality.
There is then no evidence, either from the cases of those who w^ere trans-
lated, or of those who were raised to life, that the door of the death-and-hades
prison Avas ever opened till Christ obtained the key. On the other hand,
there is abundant evidence that all men, previous to the death and resurrec-
tion of Christ, were detained, either in mortality or in hades. We will rest
the case for the present on two texts, viz., the words of Christ- ''No man
Jiath ascended uj} to heaven,^ (John 3: 13,) and the words of Peter 'David
is not ascended into the Jieavens.^ Acts 2: 34. Mr. Bush rejects the natural
meaning of these texts, and reduces them to mere denials '
oid, public^ official
and glorious ascension, like that of Christ.' This gloss is wholly unauthorised.
Indeed we see not why Mr. Bush should conceive that he has any occasion
for it ; for he himself teaches in one of the extracts which we have cited in
the preceding article, that the Old Testament saints were detained in a state
of '
imperfect happiness' called paradise, and were '
not in heaven' previous
to the resurrection of Christ. So that whether these texts teach the doctrine
or not, he admits, for aught that we can see, that no man had ascended to
heaven at the time they were uttered.
But it can be sliown that Peter, in saying that ' David'had ^not^ascended
into the heavens,' meant that he was still in hades. The reader will observe
that the leading promise which Peter is commenting upon in the passage in
question, is that contained in the 27th verse—' Thou wilt not leave my soul
in hades, neither wilt thou suffer thine holy one to see corruption.' This, he
insists, must be applied to Christ, because the facts in David's case do not
admit of its application to him. What are the facts ? Obviously these, viz :
David is dead and buried, and has never risen from the dead and ascended
into heaven. (See ver. 29.) This state of things in the case of David stands
KEYS OF HELL AND OF DEATH. 869
Opposed to both parts of the promise. His soul is left in hades, and his flesh
has seen corruption. In another discourse, where Paul argues from this
promise in the same way, . (see Acts 13: 35—37,) he quotes only the last
part of it, ' Thou shalt not suffer thine holy one to see corruption,' and then
shows that it cannot be applied to DaVid, by simply affirming that he '
saw
corruption.' But Peter quotes the whole of it, and affirms by plain implica-
tion, not only that David's body had seen corruption, but that his soul was
left in hades, inasmuch as he had not ascended into the heavens. It is un-
(][uestionable that the Jews in Peter's time did believe that all the dead w^ere
m hades, awaiting the resurrection of the last day ; and in his argument on
the promise in question, he manifestly assumed this, as well as the fact that
David's body saw corruption. (See Jalm's Archaeology, §314, §318.)
In affirming that the Old Testament saints had not ascended to heaven,
but were detained in hades till the resurrection of Christ, we are not to be
understood as denying their ultimate salvation, or as teaching that they went
to liell^ in the English sense of that w^ord. The paradise into which Christ
and the thief went on the day of their death, is, as Mr. Bush suggests, in
hades. In the parable of the rich man and Lazarus, we perceive that Abra-
ham, though he was in the same world with the tormented sinner, was in a
very different region of that world, and in a very different state.
The Bible almost uniformly characterizes the condition of the inhabitants of
hades, as a state of sleep. (See Ban. 12: 2, 1 Cor. 15: 51, &c.) It is not
to be inferred from this, that they are in a state of literal dormancy or un-
consciousness, for we have positive evidence to the contrary. The meaning
13, that as a person, in ordinary sleep, is withdrawn from the world of sense,
and exercises his consciousness and activity, so far as he has any, in an in-
ward subjective sphere, so the dead are withdrawn from the material world,
and exercise their consciousness and activity in a sphere which, with reference
to the material world, is inward and subjective. They are in the soul of the
universe, instead of the body. Their operation on the surface ceases at death.
Their sleep is opposed to the visible activity of this world, and opposed to the
perfect activity of the final resurrection. Christ, as well as the rest of the
dead, may be said to have been asleep while he was in hades. His activity
in this world ceased. But when he arose out of hades and ascended to the
Father, he assumed the government of heaven and earth, i. e., entered upon
a career of activity in both an inward and an outward sphere. So the saints,
while^they are in hades, ai*e asleep as being confined to an inward sphere ;
but when they come forth into the resurrection, they become active again in
the outward as well as the inward world.
They are said to '
sleep in the dust of the earth^^ because their abode,
happy though it be, is not in heaven, but in hades, which is the inner region
of the world of matter, and accordingly is called '
the lower parts of the earth,'
(Eph. 4: 9,) and '
the heart of the earth.' Matt. 12: 40. It is in this sense
also that they are said to be '
in their graves.' John 5: 28.
Now we hold with Mr. Bush, that the resurrection has nothing to do with
corrupted material bodies, and that the dead enter into hades and exist there
in those spiritual bodies which are to be raised. But is this the resurrection ?
46
370 KEYS OF HELL AND OF DEAttf.
Is the mere possession of spiritual bodies, or the disengagement of those bo*
dies from their earthly tenements, or the mere natural vitality of those bodied
without reference to the quickening of God or to the sphere in which they
exist, to be considered a rising from the dead ? We say. No. The inner
body, or what Mr B. calls the '
spiritual germ,' may be conceived to enter a
State at death, not a whit more favorable to its vitality than the atmosphere
of this world The quickning of the seed depends not upon its own capability
of germinating, but on the soil and atmosphere into which it falls, on the
Sunshine and rain which are sent upon it. All the evidence we have on the
subject goes to pi*ove that hades is no more favorable to the quickening of
spiritual bodies, than this world. Mortality and hades are classed together
in the Bible as twin-states, equally remote from the world of resurrection-life.
All the inhabitants of hades, the wicked as well as the righteous, are alive,
have consciousness and activity, and in this sense are in an anastasis. They
are not dead in the Sadducean sense of non-existence. The righteous in
hades doubtless have a degree oi spiritual life, corresponding to that of the
saints in this world under the Jewish dispensation, and in their condition are
raised far above the wicked. In this special sense they may be said to be
in an anastasis^ i. e. they stand up from the miserable state of those in Ge*
henna. We are inclined to think that Christ had this kind of anastasis in
view when he proposed Abraham, Isaac and Jacob to the Sadducees as in-
stances of a resurrection. They might be said to be in a resurrection, just
as believers in this world are, but not in the resurrection.
What then is the resurrection ? We may find an answer to this question
by tracing the process of Christ's rising. When he died, his spiritual body
^vas disengaged from its material tenement, and he entered hades. He was
in ' the heart of the earth' three days. Now, according to Mr. B's theory,
he rose from the dead as soon as he died, and was in the true resurrection
during those three days ! Is this the Bible account ? Not at all. After
three days hades gave him up, '
because it was not possible that he should be
holden of it.' Here commenced his resurrection. The first step of his as-
cent was a rising out of that world where Abraham, Isaac and Jacob were-—
nay, out of paradise itself, for that is a part of hades ! This was not a mere
disengagement of his spiritual body from its earthly vehicle, but a change of
worlds, a disengagement of his spiritual body and his soul from the place where
men '
sleep in the dust of the earth.' The process did not end here. He
had ascended out of hades and had got its key. But he had returned to his
material body, and to the sphere in vvhich it dwelt, i.e. to mortality. It re-
mained for him to burst the barriers of this world and ascend to the Father*
l^he life which hades could not hold, was strong enough to change his mate-
i-ial body and assimilate it to the spiritual, as was proved by his assuming
invisibility and entering apartments whose doors were shut, at will. Finally
earth could not hold him, and he ascended to the bosom of God.*
* Wejud<2;'e thai this was the order in which he obtained the oomtnnnd of the two
gfeat enclosures, from the peculiar phraseolog-y of Rom. 14: 9. 'Christ both died, and
toscj and revived, [i. e. lived ai^ain,] thai he might be Lord both of tlie dead and the
living-. As it was his death ihat gave him the command of the dead, so it appears from
this language, that it was his rising and living again, and not h'la life before death, thai
KEYS OF HELL AND OP DEATH. 871
Now the reader will observe, that this stupendous transaction was not a
mere subjective change, a development of Christ's individual vitality accor»
ding to the ordinary laws of germination, as Mr. Bush's theory would make
it. Here is a translation, first from hades to this world, and then from this
world to the presence of God—a vast change of coyidition as well as of vital»
ity. The scriptures constantly ascribe it not to any natural law, but to the
'mighty power of God.' This is a specimen of the universal resurrection
which goes before the judgment. Hades and mortality gave up '
many' of
their dead at the second coming of Christ ; and shall give up all their dead
at the voice of the seventh trumpet. See Rev. 20: 12, 13.
We may facilitate our conceptions of the resurrection which is to result
from the resurrection of Christ, and of its distinction from all previous partial
anastases, by an illustration. Suppose hades and mortality to be two apart'
ments on the same floor of a house. Heaven, or the place of God's presence,
is the story above. Now the resurrection is not a transit from one of the
lower apartments to the other, even though that transit is made miraculously,
as in the case of Enoch and Elijah : nor is it a return to one of these apart'
ments, after having left it, as in the case of Lazarus : but it is an ascent from
both of them to the upper story, which never took place till Christ—' the first'
born from the dead'^led the way.
This ascent out of hades and mortality, so far as the change is objective^ is
the destiny of the wicked as well as the righteous. The same mighty power
tliat brought again Christ from hades, will at last ' draw all men unto him.'
John 12: 32. The dead small and great must stand before God; and for that
purpose death and hell must give them up. The paradise of hades is not the
find home of the righteous. They are to be brought up to judgment, and
thence pass into the kingdom of the Father. So the gehenna ot hades is not
the final home of the wicked. They too are to be brought up to judgmejit,
and thence pass into the lake of fire.
gave him the command of the living-. The order ofthe words in Rev. 1: 18, favors the
same view :
*
I am he that liveth, and was dead, &c. ; and have the keys of hades an4
of death.' Hades stands first. So in 1 Thess. 4:16, the power of his resurrection
takes eflect first oii the dead and then on the living-.
§53. OBJECTIONS TO THE FOREGOING VIEWS OF THE
RESURRECTION.
The position which we have assumed and maintained in our previous arti-
cles, is, that the first resurrection (after that of Christ) occurred at the sec-
ond advent, immediately after the destruction of Jerusalem. Against this
the following objections may be raised. 1. In Matt. 27: 52, there is an ac-
count of a resurrection of saints immediately folloiving Chrisfs resurrection,
2. Paul, in 2 Cor. 5: 6—8, and Phil. 1: 23, expresses his desire to leave
the body, that he might be present with Christ ; from which it is inferred
that he looked for an immediate entrance into the resurrection at death. 3.
Daniel predicts an awaking of the wicked as well as the righteous at the first
resurrection ; and yet no specific account of the resurrection of some to dam-
nation appears in Matt. 24, Rev. 6 and 7, or in any other New Testament
description of the second advent, while in Rev. 20 it is expressly said that
' the rest of the dead [i e. all except the saints that reigned with Christ]
lived not again till the thousand years were finished.'
Our object in the present article is to lead the reader to a stand-point from
which he will see that the passages on which the. above objections are founded,
are entirely consistent with those other passages on which our theory of the
first resurrection rests. In order to do this w^e must try once more to pene-
trate the depths of the interior v,^orld, and take a comprehensive view of the
* heavenly places' (epourania) which were concerned in the changes effected
by the rseurrection.
It is known to all who are familiar with the Bible, that the word heaven is
used in several different senses by the inspired writers. Paul speaks of the
^AW heaven in 2 Cor. 12: 2; from which expression it is evident that a
series of at least three distinct heavens was recognized in his theory of the
celestial world. Without attempting at present a full investigation of the
ouranology of the Bible, we ask the reader's attention to some facts relatmg to
the tivo heavens most immediately concerned in the transactions of the sec-
ond advent.
1. The heaven in hades. We learn from the subsequent language of Paul
that the ' third heaven' of which he speaks in 2 Cor. 12: 2, is j)<^it^cidi8e.
(See ver. 4.) But paradise is the place where Christ went with the peni-
tent thief; on the day of his death. (See Luke 23 : 43.) His resurrection
did not take place till three days afterward. Paradise therefore was not a
resurrection-hQdiYQn^ but an apartment in hades, occupied by the departed
saints, who were waiting for the advent of Christ. This is admitted, as we have
seen, by Mr. Bush.
This intermediate apartment was properly called heaven in a relative sense.
It may be conceived of as bearing a similar relation to the worldly tabernacle,
as that which the soul bears to the body. It was a state more purely spirit-
ual, and therefore nearer to God than the world of flesh aud blood. As the
primary idea of heaven is that of the clear expanse above the earth, so, in a
OBJECTIONS. 873
spiritual view, any state which is more spiritual and nearer to God than that
of mortality, is, with reference to .mortahty, a higher state, i. e. a heaven.
But it is evident that paradise was not ^heaven in the absolute sense, (1)
from the fact that it was in hades, i. e. in the grave—one of the apartments,
the key of which Christ obtained by his death ; (2) from the fact that Christ
did not remain in it, but ascended from it to his final glory ; (3) from the
fact that Christ, though he had been in paradise, assured his disciples on the
day of his resurrection that he had 'not ascended to his Father^^
from which
it is manifest that paradise was not the presence of the Father.
2. The angelic heaven. Christ, in his resurrection, passed first from par-
adise to an intermediate state, in which he was seen by the disciples for a
season, and then ascended to the Father. As his resurrection was the '
first-
fruits of the general resurrection of the saints, it is evident from that sample,
that the presence of the Father is the upper terminus of the resurrection-
ascent. Now the presence of the Father is the angelic heaven. Christ says
of his. little ones 'In heaven^ their angels do always behold the face of my
Father who is in heaven.^ Matt. 18: 10. Accordingly Paul, in his great
summary of the facts in the history of ' God manifest in the flesh,' specifies
that he was 'justified in the spirit, [i. e. at his resurrection,] and appeared
to angels^^
[i. e., took his place in the angelic heaven—the presence of the
Father.] 1 Tim. 3: 16. In exact harmony with this view, Christ, in his de-
scription of the ultimate state of the saints, says,—' They who shall be ac-
counted worthy to obtain that world, and the resurrection from the dead, nei-
ther marry nor are given in marriage ; neither can they die any more : for
they are equal unto the angels ; and are the children of God, being the chil-
dren of the resurrection.' Luke 20: 35, 36.
The angehc heaven, being the presence of God, is the highest apartment
of the spiritual world, and is therefore heaven in the absolute sense. It is the
central sanctuary of the universe—-and was represented by the holy of holies
in the Mosaic tabernacle. See Heb. 9: 3, 12, 24.
Now when we affirm, on the authority of Christ and Peter, that no man
had ascended to heaven before the coming of Christ, we do not mean that no
man had ascended to paradise—the heaven of hades. That w^as unquestion-
ably the resting-place of all the saints of the Old Testament. It is expressly
said that Elijah '
went up to heaven'' in the sight of Elisha ; (2 Kings 2: 11 ;)
and whether this is to be regarded as a symbolical exhibition, or as the actual
transit of Elijah to a region in the upper atmosphere, it is in either case
accordant with the relative position which is assigned to paradise by the lan-
guage of Paul in 2 Cor. 12: 4. The apostle was '
caught up' as was Elijah.
What we maintain, is, that no man had passed beyond the heaven of hades to
the angelic heaven ; that Christ was the first who ascended from paradise to
the presence of the Father. And it is with reference to the presence of the
Father, as the terminus of the resurrection and the ultimate destination of the
saints, that we affirm that there was no resurrection before Christ's—that he
was ' the first-born from the dead.' Our position is that which Paul explicitly
maintains in the 9th chapter of Hebrews, and often incidentally assumes else-
where in that book, viz. that '
the way into the holiest [i. e. the presence of
874 OBJECTIONS.
God or the angelic heaven] was not made manifest while the first tabernaclo
was standing'—that Christ was the 'forerunner^ of all saints in the transtion
to the true heaven. which is to be their final abode. (See Heb. 6: 19, 20.)
As the purpose of the incarnation, death and resurrection of Christ' was the
at-one-ment of man with God, so one great change involved in the execution
of that purpose, was the union of the human heaven with the angelic heaven.
The veil of the central sanctuary was to be removed. Man was to be brought
up out of hades and mortality, into the presence of the Father and his holy
angels. Christ assumed human nature, and by his life and death established
spiritual connection with the inner and outer regions of humanity. Then he
ascended to the presence of the Fathor, and thus completed the chain of
communication between the two spiritual corporations which were to be brought
together. The question now arises. At what time did the union of the human
with the angelic heaven take place ? We answer. At the time when Christ
* came in the glory of his Father, with his holy ayigels, to reward every man
according to his works.' That was at the close of the Jewish dispensation.
See Matt. 16: 27, 25: 31.
From the time of his resurrection till that coming, the power which brought
him again from the dead was Avorking both in this world and in hades. We
know, by the testimony of the apostles, that the visible part of the church in
the interval between Christ's rising and his second advent, w^ere in a species
of resurrection. That quickening of the Spirit, which they sometimes call
regeneration or the second birth, they constantly ascribe to the power of
Christ's resurrection. See Rom. 6: 4, Eph. 2: 1—6. As the living and
the dead were to be perfected and '
caught up together'' at the final scene,
(see ICor. 15: 52, IThess. 4: 17,) so there can be no doubt that a parallel
operation of the resurrection-power was in progress at the same time in the
invisible part of the church. The saints in hades as well as those in this
world, were receiving the long-promised new covenant—the power to become
the sons of God. In the 11th chapter of Hebrews Paul says of the Old Tes-
tament saints, including even Enoch, and Moses, and Elijah,
—' These all
having obtained a good report through faith, received not the promise : God
having provided some better thingfor us, that they without US should
NOT BE MADE PERFECT.' Yer. 39: 40. This is positive testimony to the fact
that the new covenant (which the apostle speaks of as ' the promise') was
not given to the invisible church, till it was given to the apostles and their
followers. The saints in both apartments of humanity received the power of
the resurrection, and were ripened for the second advent, together. They
that sowed and they that reaped, rejoiced together in the harvest. (See John
4: 36—38.)
The correspondence of state and progress which thus manifestly existed
between the visible and the invisible part of the church, allows us to reason
from the one to the other. On the one hand, as there was a partial resurrec-
tion of the saints in this world in the apostoHc age, so there was a partial
resurrection of the saints in hades. But on the other, as that resurrection,
in the one case, was not complete till the second advent, so it was not in the
other. And further, as the tares and the wheat remained together in the
OBJECTIONS. 875
Visible field till the harvest, so it is not to be doubted that they remained to-
gether in the invisible field. Indeed we have apostolic authority for the as-
sertion that '
spiritual Avickedness' existed in the ' heavenly places,' (^epou-
ra7iia,') and that the man of sin was revealed, even in ' the temple of God,'
(which of course stands on Mount Zion in the spiritual Jerusalem,) in the
interval between the first and second coming of Christ. The time ofjudgment,
when '
all things that ofiend and them that do iniquity' were to be gathered
out of the kingdom, did not come to the saints, either in mortality or hades,
till their resurrection was completed by the personal coming of Christ. Pre-
vious to that time, Christ, having attached the power of his resurrection to
both departments of humanity, and being '
exalted' to the right hand of the
Father, was '
drawing men unto him.' At that time, the approximation of the
church, visible and invisible, having proceeded far enough for his purpose,
he descended into it with the glory of the Father and the power of all the
angels, judged and destroyed the man of sin, purged the spiritual Jerusalem
of ' the uncircumcised and the unclean,' and ascending with it, presented it
as his bride to the Father. Thus the human and angelic heavens became one.
With this outline before us, we are prepared for an examination of the three
objections alluded to in the beginning of this article.
1. The resurrection of saints at the time of Chrisfs rising. Matt. 27:
51—53. In order that the objection in this case may have any force, it must
be averred that this was a complete and final resurrection. If it was, then
some of the saints rose before the second coming, and Paul's designation of the
time of the rising of the living and the dead in 1 Cor. 15: 23—52, 1 Thess,
4: 16, &c., is falsified. But to this averment we reply—There is no evidence
that the saints, whose resurrrction is in question, ascended to the Father, It
is only said that they '
came out of their graves and went into the holy city
and appeared unto many.' So far they followed Christ in his ascent. He
came out of his grave, went to Jerusalem, and appeared to many. But in
his case, this was only half of the resurrection. He had not yet ascended to
the Father and taken his place in the angelic heaven. If it were declared
that, at the time when he was received up into glory, these saints ivere also
received up ivith him, ^Ye should be obliged to admit that they entered the
resurrection-sanctuary previous to the second advent. But in the absence
of any such declaration, we are at liberty and are bound to adhere to the
general testimony of the apostles, which assigns the final resurrection of the
church, visible and invisible, to the period of the destruction of Jerusalem.
If it is asked, What was the state of these saints from the time of their par-
tial resurrection till the second coming, all we need to answer, is, that they
were in a state intermediate between the repose of hades and the glory of the
Father. That there was such an intermediate state, is proved by the facts in
the case of Christ.
2. PauVs desire to depart and he tvith Christ. Phil. 1: 21—23, 2 Cor.
6: 6—8. The objection is, that the apostle evidently expected to enter
fully the resurrection state at once, on leaving the body. But the reader
^vill perceive, on examining the passages on which this objection is founded,
that there is no distinct declaration of any such expectation. The ' gain'
376 OBJECTIONS.
which he looked for in dying, was not immediate admittance to the glory of
the Father and the holy angels, but the enjoyment of the presence of Christ*
Now if it is in any way supposable that there was a more full enjoyment of
the presence of Christ in the intermediate abode of the disembodied saints
than there was in this world, (though neither of these apartments was the
resurrection-sanctuary,) we can allow a full meaning to Paul's words, and
yet maintain that he did not expect the full resurrection till the second com-
ing. And we are bound to seek for such a method of conciliation ; for
without it the apostle contradicts himself, inasmuch as he unequivocally and
repeatedly affirms elsewhere that the resurrection of the dead, as well as the
change of the hving, was to take place at the personal coming of Christ, at
the close of the Jewish dispensation. The passages now in question are
doubtful, since they speak not distinctly of the resurrection, but only of the
presence of Christ. Whereas such passages as 1 Cor. 15: 23, are plain and
unmistakable declarations that the resurrection of the saints should take place
at the second advent—not sooner, nor later. The plain passages must gov-
ern our construction of the doubtful.
We have said that the paradise of hades was properly called heaven in a
relative sense, i. e., as compared with this world. It was a state more purely
spiritual, and nearer to God, than that of flesh and blood. This accounts for
the fact which is suggested in a variety of passages in the New Testament,
that '
the dead in Christ rose first^ at the last trump. The resurrection-
power took effect first on those who were in a state nearest akin to it. The
church of the disembodied saints was the touching-point (so to speak) of the
attracting energy which drew men up from hades and mortality. As in the
individual, Christ's spiritual presence is in the soul more than in the body
BO in the church of the first-born, his spiritual presence was in the invisible,
more than in the visible department. Paul's wish then to depart and be with
Christ, may be understood as simply a wish to pass from the body to the soul
of the church, where the power of Christ was most manifested. Even if it is
insisted that his words refer to the personal presence of Christ, we may show
by help of the same theory of the disembodied state, that this is not inconsis-
tent with what he says elsewhere concerning the resurrection at the second
coming. Christ's personal presence certainly was not confined to the angelic
heaven during the apostolic age. He appeared to Paul, in one instance at
least, at Jerusalem. Acts 22: 18. And if he thus revisited mortality, it is
not to be doubted that he also appeared personally in the abode of the disem-
bodied saints* Indeed it is natural to suppose that he was in frequent and
perhaps constant personal communication with paradise, as that was the most
spiritual department of the church, and the point of contact for his attraction.
In saying then that he desired to depart and be with Christ, Paul meant, at
the most, only that he desired to join the invisible church, with which Christ
was in personal communication. He did not mean to imply that that church
had ascended to the Father, or that he expected to enter the final resurrec*
tion before the second advent.
3. The silence of the New Testament in regard to the resurrection of the
wicked at the second coming. This objection will disappear, if we keep in
OBJECTIONS. S77
mind the leading idea of tlie resurrection which has been brought to view in
our previous outline. The resurrection, in the general sense of the word,
as pertaining to both the righteous and the wicked, is a' transition from the
recesses of hades and mortality to the presence of the Father and his holy
angels. In the case of the righteous, this presentation to the Father is
followed by a judicial acquittal and an eternal residence in the angelic
heaven. In the case of the wicked, it is followed by condemnation and
eternal banishment '
from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his
power.' But these diverse sequences belong to the judgment. The resur-
rection, i. e. introduction to the presence of God, in both cases is the same.
Now let us see if the New Testament descriptions of the second coming do
not indicate that a portion of the wicked as well as the righteous, were ushered
into the presence of God by that event. In Rev. 6: 12—17, (which is a
description of the second coming, copied chiefly from Matt. 24: 29—31,)
we are informed that, at the appearing of the Son of man, '
the kings of the
earth, and the great men, &c., hid themselves in the dens and in the rocks
of the mountains, and said to the mountains and rocks, Fall on us, and hide
us fr0711 the face of him that sitteth upon the throne^ and from the wrath of
the Lamb.'' Here is certainly an '
awaking to shame and contempt'—a com-
ing forth '
to the resurrection of damnation.' So in 2 Thess. 2: 1—12,
(which relates to the period when the dead in Christ were to be raised and
the living changed, as will be seen by comparing it with 1 Thess. 4: 15—17,)
we learn that the man of sin was to be 'destroyed by the brightness of Christ's
coming,' and that they in whom he worked his delusions were to perish with
him.
The truth is, that the resurrection of the wicked to damnation is involved
in the resurrection of the righteous to salvation. The same attracting energy
which, during the apostolic age, drew the church, visible and invisible, toward
Christ, also necessarily drew with that church the evil spirits which were
mixed with it. Until the tares and the wheat are separated, whatever is done
to the wheat must also take effect on the tares. And in the case of the
church of the first-born, the tares were not separated from the wheat, as we
have seen, till both were brought up to the tribunal of the Father. The very
object of the judgment, which is subsequent to the resurrection, is the separa-
tion of the righteous from the wicked. If Christ would give rest to his saints,
he must purge out from among them '
all things that offend, and them that do
iniquity ;' and for this purpose, he must bring the mixed mass of spirits with
which they are incorporated, into the blaze of his presence. The gold can be
separated from the dross, only by subjecting both to the action of fire. Tliis
principle makes it as certain that a portion of the wicked entered the resur-
rection of damnation at the second coming, as that the true church then enter-
ed the resurrection of life.
But how are we to understand the statement in Rev. 20, that *
the rest of
the dead [i. e. all except those who had part in the blessed resurrection]
lived not again till the thousand years were finished.' To this we answer
The righteous only ' came forth to the resurrection of life.^ The wicked
were brought into the presence of God. and that was their resurrection. But
47
S78 REVIEW Of BALLOU ON THE RESUllRECtlOS'.
they did not enter into life* On the contrary, the fire which purged th<?
Hghteous, destroyed them, and they were thenceforth twice dead. They did
not remain in the presence of the Father, hut were judged and cast into outer
darkness. '
The kingdom of heaven,' says Christ, ' is Hke unto a net that
was cast into the sea [which represents the attracting power of Christ's resur-
rection] and gathered of every kind ; which when it was full they drew to
the shore, and sat down, and gathered the good into vessels, but ca^^t the bad
aivay, [probably back into the sea.] So shall it be at the end of the aion,
[i. e. the Jewish age. See 1 Cor. 10: 11, Heb. 9: 26.] The angels shall
come forth and sever the wicked from among the just, and shall cast them
into a furnace of fire.' Matt. 13: 47—50. The resurrection to damnation
is not taken into the account as a form of life, in Rev. 20. The assertion
that ' the rest of the dead lived not,' simply means that there was no further
awaking from the sleep of hades, till the thousand years were finished.
§ 54. REVIEW OF BALLOU ON THE RESURRECTION.
Having proved that the ' first resurrection' took place at the end of the
Jewish dispensation, it is now time to inquii'e whether there has been any res-
urrection since, and when the final resurrection may be expected. Prof. Bush,
and Adin Ballon, have both taken the position that since the destruction of
Jerusalem the resurrection has been a continuous process, taking effect on
each individual at death* Indeed Mr. Bush, with much detriment to his con-
sistency^ maintains, on the whole, that the resurrection has been a continuous
process from the beginning of the world. With these theories we join issue,
and aver, 1, that there was no resurrection till the end of the Jewish dispen-
sation ; 2, that there was then a simultaneous resurrection of ' many ;'
3, that
there has been no resurrection since ; and 4, that a simultaneous gene-
ral resurrection of the human race is yet to come. The first two of these
propositions wo have alread}'- suflSciently discussed. The following remarks
on a pamphlet pubhshed by Adin Ballon in 1843, in which the doctrine of a
continuous resurrection was propounded, present the principal Bible evidence
bearing on the 3d and 4th of the above averments.
When we have ascertained that the Second advent of Christ, with a resur*
rection and judgment, did certainly take place immediately after the destruc-
tion of Jerusalem, if we have not been accustomed to conceive of the judgment
in two acts, and have not in our minds the evidence of a second judgment,
we very naturally hasten to the conclusion that those who have lived and died
since the period of the second advent, have been raised and judged succes-
sively, as they entered the invisible wofld. They must have part in the
I'esurrection and judgment, and we naturally ask'—If the court of heaven
commenced its session at the end of the Jewish dispensation, how can they
be raised and judged otherwise than in succession as they die ?
One formidable objection faces this theory at the outset, viz. there is
REVIEW OF BALLOU ON THE RESURRECTION. 379
not a particle of direct evidence for it in scripture. It is simply an inference;
€ind though its advocates may say it is a reasonable inference, yet in a mat-
ter so important, Bible reasoners will not be satisfied so far as to foreclose
further investigation, without direct testimony. We have searched through
the Bible, and through Mr. Ballou's pamphlet, for texts directly asserting or
plainly intimating the continuation of the resurrection and judgment through
successive age?, and we have found none. In fact, though Mr. Ballon gives
great prominence to this doctrine in his initial statement, he no where pre-
sents the proof of it under a distinct head. The nearest approach which we
find in the pamphlet to the citation of proof texts on this point, is in the foL
lowing instances, which occur incidentally:
" The trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall be raised incorruptible, and we
[who shall be alive at that time, with all who shall live afterwards in the flesh,]
shall be changed" [instantly at death and enter the immortal state.] 1 Cor. 15:
51, 52 " This we say unto you by the word of the Lord, that we which
are alive, and remain unto the corning of the Lord, shall not prevent [precede
or go before] them which are asleep. For the Lord himself shall descend from
heaven [in the invisible world] with a shout, with the voice of the archangel,
and with the trump of God : and the dead in Christ shall rise first. Then [from
and after that time] we which are alive and remain [on the earth] shall [at the
moment of our death, without sleeping at all, or descending like the dead of all
past Pges into hades] be caught up together with them in the clouds ;
[the im^
mortal state ;] and so shall we ever be with the Lord."
This is evidently an adaptation of texts to a theory previously assumed,—
not fair proof of that theory. We cannot at all admit the legitimacy of the
interpolations.
Having proved that Christ came and commenced the judgment at thQ
destruction of Jerusalem, Mr. Ballou's inference is, that with reference to
subsequent generations that judgment was continuous. But there is rooni
for two other inferences. We may suppose first that the subsequent genera^
tions have no part in the resurrection and judgment ; or secondly, that there
is to be another distinct judgment for those generations, at the end of the
' times of the Gentiles.' Even the first of these suppositions, improbable as
it is, has as much scripture proof in its favor as the theory we are considering,
—that is, none at all. But the second supposition—that of a second judg-
ment—we may confidently assert, before entering the field of Bible proof, is
at least as probable, in itself considered, as the supposition of a continuous
judgment. If we had nothing before us but the history of the Jewish and
(xentile dispensations, with the fact proved that Christ came to judgment at
the destruction of Jerusalem, we should infer with strong confidence that there
would be a second distinct judgment. Our reasoning would run Ihus: The
judgment is like a harvest,—the speedy gathering of fruits that have been long
growing. The Jewish nation was the field which God cultivated for two
thousand years. At the judgment of the second advent that field was reaped.
Then the Gentiles came under a similar process of cultivation, Now which
is most rational, to suppose that the reapers would be kept at work on this
second field through seedtime and summer, till harvest,—-or that the reaping
would be deferred, as in the former case, for two thousand years, (or th^re*
380 REVIEW OF BALLOU ON THE RESURRECTION.
aboutSj) till the grain should be ripe, and then be done all at once ? Or if
we compare the judgment to a reckoning, and settlement of accounts, there
is a manifest propriety that there should be two distinct judgments, one for
the Jews and the other for the Gentiles ; since the accounts of these two par-
ties are very different, and one of them only commenced special dealings
with God at the time when the other was called to settlement. We admit,
all this is no 'proofs but it is ground of presumption, which in our view gives
the theory of two judgments the advantage over that of one protracted judg-
ment, even if the former were, like the latter, unsustained by direct scripture
testimony.
But let us go to the Bible. And first, we have a few remarks to make on
the book of Eevelations. Mr. Ballon, on the authority of Dr. Lardner, re-
gards that book as of doubtful authority. Of course, he admits that it may
he a part of the true word of God. Yet he sets up a theory which is confes-
sedly at variance with that book, as appears from the following passage in
his pamphlet
" Objection.—Your doctrine sets aside the * first resurrection,' and the mil-
lennium^ predicted in the 20th chapter of Revelations. Answer.—It does; but
it holds forth a * resurrection of the just,' and an ultimate reign of righteousness,
far more excellent and glorious than any described in that chapter."
Now our theory exactly harmonizes with the book of Revelations. Of course,
whatever weight of evidence there is in favor of the canonicity of that book,
is in favor of our theory, and directly opposed to Mr. Ballou's. The doc-
trine of two judgments is certainly true, if the Apocalypse is an inspired
book ; and it may be true—as we shall soon show—if that book is a forgery.
While on the other hand, if that book should be proved to be the word of
God, Mr. Ballou's doctrine must be false. This view of the matter at least
strengthens the presumption and advantage we have before gained for our
doctrine. We have a very important may be on our side.
But Mr. Ballon thinks we build too exclusively on this doubtful book, and
insists that the current of the other inspired writings is against us. After
the remark above quoted, he proceeds as follows :
" It must be considered that this is the only chapter in all the Bible which
even intimates that a part of the dead are to rise one thousand years before the
rest ; or that there is to be a thousand years reign of the saints with Christ ; or
that Satan is to be shut up in prison a thousand years, and afterwards loosed for
a season before the general resurrection. The ancient prophets say no such
thing—Christ hints no such thing. The other New Testament writers do not
lisp it.' But it is contrary to their uniform representations of the resurrection
and final judgment."
If we understand the purport of this, it places the book of Revelations in
positive antagonism to the rest of the Bible ; of course, it makes it worse than
a doubtful book. But let us see if we cannot redeem its character. We
take issue with Mr. Ballon on the ground he has chosen, and rest our case on
the testimony of the Bible without the Apocalypse.
1. Jesus Christ, in the 24th and 25th of Matthew, describes two distinct
judgments. The first judgment is represented as taking place in immediate
connection with the second advent. ' Immediately after the tribulation of
REVIEW OF BALLOU ON THE RESURRECTION. 881
those days shall the sun be darkened, .... and then shall appear the sign
of the Son of man ; . . . . and he shall send his angels with a great sound
of a trumpet ; and they shall gather together his elect from the four winds,
from one end of the heaven to the other.' Matt. 24: 29-31. This cannot be a
continuous gathering, extending thro' the ages of the Son's regency, because
Christ says immediately after
—' This generation shall not pass till all these
things be fulfilled.' The fact that it w^as a temporary, and not a continuous
gathering, is also manifest from the parable of the ten virgins, in the begin-
ning of the next chapter. ' Then [i. e. at the second advent] shall the king-
dom of heaven be likened unto ten virgins which took their lamps and went
forth to meet the bridegTOom. . . . And while they [the foohsh virgins]
went to buy, the bridegroom came, and they that were ready went in with
him to the marriage, and the door was shut.^ Matt. 25: 1, 10. This plainly
teaches that the glorious presence of Christ in his second advent, would
be accessible only for a short season. They that were then ready, went in
unto the privileges of the resurrection, and the rest were excluded. 'The
door was shut.' Here manifestly was the end of the first judgment. In the
31st verse following, Christ introduces a second judgment. ' When the Son
of man shall come in his glory, . . . [having gathered in the elect] he shall
sit upon the throne of his glory ;
[and the twelve apostles, with those that
were ready at the first gathering, shall sit with him, see Matt. 19: 28, 1 Cor.
6: 2 ;] and before him shall be gathered all nations, and he shall separate
them one from another. . . . Then [after these gi*eat preparatory transac-
tions, which necessarily occupy the whole period of the Son's regency,] shall
he say. Come, ye blessed, . . . and . . . depart, ye cursed.' Matt. 25:
31—46. Here at last the door of the marriage supper is again opened to
them that are ready, and again shut against the foolish virgins. Taking into
account the fact that in this same discourse Christ pointed his disciples for-
ward to the long period of '
the times of the Gentiles,' (Luke 21: 24,) which
must necessarily precede the ' gathering of all nations before his throne,' we
think he at least '
hints'- at a series of events corresponding to those described
in the 20th of Revelations—viz., a primary resurrection of ' the elect, a long
interval in which '
the rest of the dead lived not,' (the door was shut,) and
a final gathering, resurrection and judgment of all* nations.
2. Paul describes the resurrection in exact accordance with the testimony
of Christ. ' Every man [shall be raised] in his own order : Christ the first-
fruits ; afterward they that are Christ's [' the elect' spoken of in Matt. 24:
31] at his coming ; then [i. e. next] cometh the end [of the resurrection,
i. e. the final resurrection,] when he shall deliver up the kingdom to the
Father ;' [i. e. after his mediatorial reign.] 1 Cor. 15: 23—28. Here are
three items. The particle which separates the third from the second, has
the same force as that which separates the second from the first.* Now it is
* The word translated then_ is eita, and that translated aftencard, in the 23d verse, is
ejycita, Eita is the word translated then in 1 Tim. 2: 13. '
Adam was first formed, then
Eve.' So it occurs twice in Mark 4: 28. '
First (he blade, then the ear, then the full corn
in the ear.' In 1 Cor. 12: 28, both of the words which designate the succession in
1 Cor. 15: 24, occur in exactly the same order. 'God halh set in the church, lirst,
anostles; secondly, prophets; thirdly, teachers; aftaxcard \_epeita^ miYSic\cs; then [eitd\
gifts of healing-,' &c. Compare with this the passage in question :
—* Christ the first-
882 REVIEW OF BALLOU ON THE RESURRECTION.
undeniable that the resurrection of Christ was a transaction perfectly distinct
from the resurrection of the saints at the second advent, and separated from
it by a considerable interval of time. With equal reason, the language of
Paul requires us to distinguish between the resurrection of the second advent
and the final resurrection ; and to place the long interval of the mediatorial
reign between them. We will not dwell on this point, as we have already
discussed it at some length. (See the article on '
The Millennium,' p. 334.)
We think it safe to say that Paul at least ' lisps' something about two res-
urrections : and when we consider that he also foresaw and predicted the
^ times of the Gentiles,' (Rom. 11: 25,) we are constrained to believe that,
in his own mind, he placed the two resurrections in an order and relation
somewhat similar to that described in the 20th of Revelations.
Here let it be noticed that the two representations we have examined,
(Matt. 24 & 25, and 1 Cor. 15,) are the only instances in which any of the
New Testament writers (excepting, of course, the revelator,) undertake to
give a complete prophetical detail of the resurrection and judgment. All the
evidence, therefore, in the New Testament, that bears on the point, confirms
Revelations 20th.
3. Several of the prophets describe two judgments. (1) In the 12th
chapter of Daniel, we have an account of a resurrection of * many,' (not of
all mankind,) which was to take place at the time of the great tribulation'
not continuously through many ages. According to Mr. Ballou's own prin-
ciples of interpretation, this resurrection was to be 'finished within three and
a half literal years from the period of the destruction of Jerusalem. See ver. 7.
It should be observed that Daniel's language plainly characterizes this as dis-
tinctively a Jewish resurrection. ' At that time, thy people shall be deliver-
ed,' &c. Ver. 1. In two previous instances (Dan. 2: 44, & 7: 26) he
describes another judgment, which comes after the division of the Roman
Empire, and which manifestly pertains to all nations. (2) Joel, in the latter
part of his second chapter cursorily describes the judgment of the second ad-
vent and the deliverance of ' the elect.' In the third chapter, he predicts
specifically the gathering of all nations and the final judgment, after the 'times
of the Gentiles.' (3) Zachariah, in his 13th chapter, and the beginning of
the 14th, predicts the events of Christ's ministry and the apostohc age, ter-
minating in the first resurrection and judgment, at the destruction of Jerusa-
lem. Then he goes on to describe a subsequent war with the Gentiles, ter-
minating in another judgment ; after which ' the Lord shall be king over all
the earth.' Ver. 3—9.
We trust the foregoing suggestions will be sufficient to convince those who
fairly masticate and digest them, that the doctrine of the 20th chapter of
Revelations is in full harmony with the ' uniform representations' of the Old
and New Testaments.
fruits; afterward \^cpeita\ they that are Christ's, at his coming-; then [^eita'] the end,'
The word comcth is interpolated in the translation. That perhaps contributes to raise
a false distinction between the third item and the other two. It is clear from the above
examples, and from all the circumstances of tiie case, that eita has the same force as
epeita, and marks off '
the end '
from the resurrection at Christ's coming, exactly as epeitri
marks off the latter from Christ's resurrection. Prof Stuart has endorsed this view, in
his late Commentary on the Apocalypse ; and he is deep enough in Greek to be good
authority in such a matter.
^t
§ 55. THE CONNECTION OF REGENERATION WITH THE
RESURRECTION.
To those who are familiar with our writings, it will be unnecessary for us to
prove that the New Testament constantly ascribes regeneration to the power
of Christ's resurrection. If any need proof on this point, they may be referred
to Rom. 6: 5—10, 2 Cor. 5: 14—17, Eph. 1: 19, 20, Col. 2: 12, 13.
From these and many other passages it is evident that regeneration is, prop-
erly speaking, the resurrection of the spirit, and is effected by the same power
that finally raises the body to immortal glory. In the primitive church the
resurrection of the spirit was the antecedent condition of the complete resur-
rection at the coming of the Lord. After his own resurrection, and after the
commencement of the operation of the resurrection-power on the church,
Christ delayed his personal advent forty years, manifestly because, in right
order, the spirit should first be quickened, and afterward the body : and the
resurrection-power could best take effect on the spirit through the truth, in
the absence of Christ, while its complete effect on the body required his per-
sonal presence. Thus the resurrection at the second advent was '
but the
completed issue' of the spiritual quickening which preceded it during the apos-
tohc age.
Assuming then that a ministration of regeneration is the inseparable ante-
cedent of a resurrection, it is obvious that, in order to find the points on the
chart of time where resurrections have occurred or shall occur, we have only
to ascertain where there has been or is to be a ministration of regeneration
going before. Wherever we see the fig-tree of spiritual life budding, we may
be sure that the summer of the resurrection is near. With this rule for our
guidance, we may safely say at once that there was no resurrection before the
coming of Christ. Regeneration, as a doctrine, or as a fact, was not devel*
oped in the times of the Old Testament. This we have fully shown in the
article on the Second Birth, p. 223. The simple truth that regeneration is
effected by the power of Christ's resurrection, is sufficient to preclude the idea
that any were ever bom of God till Christ arose from the dead, unless we
commit the absurdity of supposing that an effect may precede its cause. As
there was no regeneration under the first covenant, so, according to our rule^
there was no resurrection.
During the apostolic age the doctrine of regeneration was developed, and
men were born of God. Accordingly the first resurrection occurred at the
destruction of Jerusalem. So far we advance, in the history of the world
with reference to regeneration and the resurrection, under the safe guidance
of the Bible.
We are now to try the question whether there has been any resurrection
since the destruction of Jerusalem, by inquiring whether there has been a
ministration of regeneration since that event. In this inquiry, from the na-
ture of the case we cannot appeal to the Bible for direct evidence, unless it
be to its prophecies ; and these, though we find them coincident with our
I
884 CONNECTION OP REGENERATION WITU THE RESURRECTION.
view of the subject, may be tbougbt too doubtful to be relied on as primary
proof. Our only course is to compare the doctrine and history of ' Christian
experience' in the Gentile church, as recorded by that church itself, with
the Bible definition of the second birth. We take for granted that the doc-
trines of the present leading churches of Christendom, at least on the sub-
ject of spiritual experience, are, in substance, the doctrines which have been
taught and believed in the Gentile church as a whole since the apostolic age.
What then is the popular view of the subject of the second birth ? We
answer, 1, Regeneration is thought to be nothing more than such a partial
change from irreligion to the fear of the Lord as was experienced by pious
Jews in all ages before the coming of Christ. This betrays the fact that
regeneration, in its essential, Bible character, as a spiritual quickening,
effected hy the resurrection of QJirist^ and of course peculiar to the Chris-
tian, in distinction from the Jewish dispensation, is not, and has not been
recognized in the creed of Gentile Christendom. 2, It is taught and be-
lieved in the leading churches, that regeneration is consistent with much
and even continual sin. But the Bible definition of the second birth is this
^He that is horii of Grod DOTH NOT COMMIT SIN ; for his seed remaineth in
Mm : and he cannot sin, because he is horn of Grod.^ Thus it is evident
that the regeneration of the apostolic age, is not the regeneration of Gentile
Christendom. This second feature of the popular doctrine of regeneration,
necessarily attends the first. If regeneration was experienced in the times
of the Old Testament, then it must be consistent with sin ; for all the Old
Testament saints sinned. But on the other hand, if regeneration is, as the
Bible affirms, a sin-eradicating operation, then the history of its development
in the past ages of the world is confined to the times subsequent to the res-
urrection of Christ. To those who adopt the Bible view of regeneration, it
will be evident that the Gentile church, so far as doctrine is concerned, has
not been conversant with the real second birth, but only with an inferior kind
of conversion, which belonged to Judaism. And as experience follows be-
lieving the truth, and cannot go beyond the truth received, it will also be
evident that the experience which has gone by the name of regeneration in
the Gentile churches, has not been the Christian second birth, but only an
inferior, Jewish, spiritual change.
It follows then, according to our rule, that there has been no resurrection
suice the destruction of Jerusalem. The grain has not been ripened. There-
fore there has been no harvest. If it can he proved that since the apstohc
age there has been a continuous ministration of regeneration in Christendom,
we will accept the doctrine of Bush and Ballou, that there has been a con-
tinuous resurrection. But all the evidence that is accessible to us, leads us
to the conclusion that Bible-regeneration ceased at the end of the apostolic
age, and of course that there was the end of the first resurrection.
The final inquiry is. When may the second resurrection be expected ? If
we may legitimately reason from the past harvest to the future, our answer
must be,—The second resurrection will take place within the lifetime of a
generation from the period of the second ministration of true Christian regen-
eration. In our view, the re-development of the gospel of salvation from all
SECOND ADVENT TO THE SOUL. 385
sin by the resurrection of Christ, is the recommencement of the process
which ill the apostoHc age ended in the second advent and the first resurrec-
tion. If this is true, we are now in the ' beginning of the end.'
§ bQ, THE SECOND ADVENT TO THE SOUL.
It has been held bj some that the second coming of Christ is so entirely
a spiritual transaction that it belongs altogether to the sphere of haternal ex-
perience, and takes place in each indi\ddual when '
old things pass away and
all things become new.' This is doubtless a false theory ; for nothing is more
certain than that Christ came personally and visibly to the expectant church
at the close of the Jewish dispensation ; and it was this coming, and not any
manifestation of Christ in private experience, which was constantly held up to
the hopes of believers by the apostles and New Testament writers. Never-
theless, there is a moiety of truth in this false theory. There is a second
coming of Christ to the soul, distinct from his coming to judgment, as we will
proceed to show, from the testimony of the Bible.
Christ said to his disciples, on the eve of his departure from them,—' I will
not leave you comfortless ; I will come to you,^ John 14: 18. Here is a
plain promise of a second coming. But did Christ, in this promise, allude to
the second coming which was to be the great sequel of the end of Judaism ?
Surely not ; for we have a subsequent explanation which clearly determines
that the second coming here promised was to be a matter of individual inter-
nal experience—a coming of Christ, not in visible person, but by the Holy
Ghost. He goes on to say—' Yet a little while, and the world seeth me no
more ; but ye see me : because I live, ye shall hve also. At that day ye
shall know that I am in my Father, and ye in me, and I in you. He that
hath my commandments and keepeth them, he it is that loveth me ; and he
that loveth me shall be loved of my Father ; and I will love him, and will
manifest myself to Mm, [Here the promise of coming to them is repeated in
another form.] Judas saith unto him, (not Iscariot,) Lord, how is it that
thou wilt manifest thyself tmto us, and not unto the world ? Jesus answered
and said unto him, If a man love me he will keep my words ; and my Father
will love him ; and ive will come unto liim^ and make our abode ivitJi 7m?z.'
Yer. 19—23. . If the reader will turn to his Bible, he will perceive that this
passage is immediately connected and evidently identified with promises of the
Holy Gho.st going before and after it ;
(see verses 16, 17, and 26 ;) and the
language of it, as well as its context, indicates that Christ was not speaking
of his ultimate personal coming, after a period of forty years, but of a spiritual
manifestation which was much nearer—a coming, not of '
the Son of man in
the clouds of heaven with his holy angels,' but of the Father and the Son in
the Holy Ghost, to the hearts of believers.
48
86G gfiCOiJD ADVEIf^ fO THE BOtli.
I.
On titunng to the epistles, vte find language corresponding to tliis proftiis^
of a spiritual advent, and testifying that it had already taken place in the ex*
perience of the saints. The following are examples of such language :^-^
* Paul, and Sylvanus, and Timothcus, unto the church of the Thessalonians
tvhich is in God the Father a7id in the Lord Jesus Christ.^ 1 Thess. 1: 1.
(See also 2 Thess. 1: 1.)—^'' Truly our fellowship is with the Father^ and
with his Son Jesus Christ.^ 1 John 1: 3.^^-' If that which ye have heard from
the beginning shall remain in you, ye also shall continue in the Son and in
the Father' 1 John 2: 24.--' He that abideth in the doctrine of Christ, he
hath both the Father and the Son.' 2 John 9. The exact correspondence of
this last passage with Christ's promise, ig« worthy of notice. We will place
them side by side :
John 14: 23.
" If any man love me he Will keep 2 John 9.
tny words; and my Father will love him, « He that abideth in the doctrine of
and we will come unto him and make Christ, he hath both the Father and the
our abode with him." Son.'*
It is clear, then, that between Christ's personal ministry and his second
commg to judgment, there was a spiritual manifestation of him to the souls of
believers which may properly be called his ' second appearing.' This mani-
festation was in fact the essential act of salvation-—a transaction which com-
pleted the reconciUation of behevers with the Father and the Son. By this
manifestation they became partakers of the divine nature, and thenceforth
dwelt in God, and God in them. It was by this that they received the 'spitit
of the Son into their hearts, crying, Abba, Father.' Gal. 4: 6. In a word,
the second appearing of Christ was the second birth.
We ought, therefore, to recognize thi^ee^ instead of tivo appearings of Christ.
He came, first, in the likeness of sinful flesh, to the visible world; secondly^
in the Holy Ghost, to the souls of the saints ; thirdly, in his glorified body,
to that part of the spiritual world which, at the end of the Jewish dispensation,
was ready for judgment. The second of these advents, though it has been
altogether eclipsed in the minds of men by the other two, and has hardly
been recognized as a distinct advent, was, nevertheless, in many respects the
most important of the three. So far as the saints were concerned, it was the
advent by which * old things passed away and all things became new.' It
made them ' new creatures,' and introduced them to a '
new heavens and a
new earth.' At the first advent, they communed with Christ externally, and
saw his works. The third advent introduced their bodies to the inner man-
sion of his glorious personal presence. But the second advent ushered their
eoub into the holy of hohes, and gave them everlasting spiritual fellowship
"with the Father and the Son. The proportions between the three may be
stated thus : As the soul is to the natural body, so was the second advent to
the first i and as the soul is to the glorified body, so was the second advent
to the third.
If we prefer, however, to think and speak only of two" comings, the first
and second, then we ought to include in the second, the spiritual advent
Under consideration. In fact, the coming, in the Holy Ghost, to the souls
THRONE OF DAVID. 8S7
<sf believers during tlie apostolic age, and the personal coming to their bodies
at the end of the Jewish world, were only dififerent parts of one great trans*
action. That transaction was the resurrection. Christ came to theni
that kept his words and looked for his appearing, first, to raise their souls
from the grave of sin, and afterward to raise their bodies from the bonds of
death. The one advent ran into the other ; and the whole may properly b^
called the second appearing of Christ.
§57. "THE THRONE OF DAVID."
An article with the abov^ title was published by Prof, Bush^ in the * HI-
erophant,' in Dec. 1843, which we here copy.
« By those who have followed the train of our exposition of the 7th of Daniel,
it will have been seen that we have dwelt largely on the position, that the king-
dom of the Son of man, instead of being properly a future expectancy, did in
fact commence ages ago, at his ascension in the clouds of heaven to the Father's
right hand. Although there is indeed abundant evidence that his kingly power
is yet to be more illustriously demonstrated, and more universally acknowledged,
in the ages of coming time, when the kingdoms of this world shall recognize in
him their predestined and lawful Sovereign, yet that his actual investiture with
the regal dignity has long since taken place, we are fully persuaded. The prov-
idential delay in assuming to the full extent his promised dominion, does not
militate with the fact of his having received, at his ascension, the plenary title
to it. The case is strikingly illustrated by that of his lineal and typical prede-
cessor, David. He, as we learn from the inspired history, was anointed by Sam*
uel several years before he actually entered upon the exercise of his royal author-
ity. The jealous hostility of Saul availed to banish him for a long season from
public view, and compelled him to wander in the wilderness as a roe that would
escape the hands of the hunter. It was only by pressing onwards through a
formidable array of obstacles and enemies, that he found a vvay to his own throne,
and made good the divine designation which had chosen him from the sheepfolds
to rule over Israel. In like manner, although the Saviour was anointed King of
Zion at his exaltation from the grave, and the second Psalm recites the decree
of recogqition, on the part of Jehovah himself, of his title to this august charac-
ter, yet the course of Providence, for wise reasons, has been such as to prevent,
as in the case of David, his more open, visible, and acknowledged supremacy be-
ing thus far entered upon. Still, it cannot be doubted that every thing is in the
meantime tending, in the councils of God, to the ultimate assertion of that para-
mount dignity and dominion, which is secured to him by the unerring word of
prophecy; and it would be a very erroneous reading of the oracles of scripture,
that should fail to recognize him as even now really sustaining all the characters
which the Old Testament prophets announce in respect to himp Thus it wag
clearly predicted that he should be a Son and successor of David, and should sit
upon his throne. This prediction announces a form of the Savior's empire, which
we are prone to regard as yet future. We image to ourselves in a vague ajjd
THRONE OF DAVID.
indefinite manner, some future phasis of the mediatorial kingdom, particularly in
connection with the conversion of the Jews, when he shall he distinctly mani-
fested and confessed as the successor of David in some manner entirely different
from any thing that has been hitherto predicable of his sovereignty. We find
it difficult to conceive of him as at present sustaining that character, just as the
tribes of Israel might be supposed to have found it difficult to look upon David
as really their king, while he was fleeing from the pursuit of Saul over the moun-
tains of Judea. But it is the great character of prophecy to resolve itself more
and more into a shadowed and symbolical portraiture of the actual accomplished
events of Providence which are to be read in the page of history. So, in the
present case, the predicted character of Christ as the inheritor of the throne of
his father David, is fully estabhshed in the realized fjicts of Providence ; and the
following extract from Edward's ' History of Redemption,' presents a view of it
which will be seen to be of immense importance in this relation :
" ' Christ was legally descended from the kings of Judah. though he was not
naturally descended from them. He was both legally and naturally descended
from David. He was naturally descended from Nathan, the son of David : for
Mary, his mother, was of the posterity of David by Nathan, as may be seen in
Luke's genealogy ; but Joseph, the reputed and legal father of Christ, was natu-
rally descended from Solomon and his successors, as we have an account in Mat-
thew's genealogy. Jesus Christ, though he was not the natural son of Joseph,
yet, by the law and constitution of the Jews, he was Joseph's lawful heir ; he was
the lawful son of Joseph's lawful wife ; conceived while she was his espoused
wife. The Holy Ghost raised up seed to him. By the law of Moses, a person
might be the legal son and heir of another whose natural son he was not ; as
sometimes a man raised up seed to his brother ; a brother in some cases was to
build up a brother's house ; so the Holy Ghost built up Joseph's house, And
Joseph being in the direct line of the kings of Judah, the house of David, he was
the legal heir to the crown of David ; and Christ being legally his first-born son,
he was his heir ; and so Christ, by the law, was the proper heir of the crown of
David, and is therefore said to sit upon the throne of David.'
"It is undoubtedly very common, on reading or hearing the following passage,
Ezek. 21: 17, ' I will overturn, overturn, overturn,- till he shall come whose right
it is,' to understand its accomplishment as in every respect yet future ; but the
words of Peter, Acts 2: 30, interpreted on the ground above assumed, show it
as having entered upon a course of fulfilment; ' Therefore being a prophet, and
knowing of a truth that God had sworn with an oath to him, that of the fruit of
his loins, according to the flesh, he would raise up Christ to sit upon his throne
he, seeing this before, spake of the resurrection of Christ, that his soul was not
left in hell, neither his flesh did see corruption. This Jesus hath God raised up,
whereof we all are witnesses. Therefore being by the right hand of God exalted,
and having received of the Father the promise of the Holy Ghost, he hath shed
forth this, which ye now see and hear.' What then should prevent us from un-
derstanding as literally accomplished the words of Gabriel, in announcing the
birth of the Savior to Mary, Luke 1: 30—33, < Behold thou shalt conceive in thy
womb, and bring forth a son, and shalt call his name Jesus. He shall be great,
and shall be called [because he shall he'] the Son of the Highest ; and the Lord
God shall give unto him the throne of his father David; and he shall reign over
the house of David forever, and of his kingdom there shall be no end' ? We ad-
niit of course that his regal dominion is in the process of universal esiahlishment
—that it will be eventually far more visibly and signally manifested than it ever
THRONE OF DAVID. 389
yet has been ; still we cannot resist the evidence that it has been long since
commenced in such a manner as to satisfy the very letter of the predictions. It
may indeed be affirmed that the prophetic oracles warrant the expectation that
this kingdom shall be visibly established on earth, and that Jesus Christ shall be
as truly recognized as the occupant of David's throne, and that too among the
Jewish race, as was David himself in the days of his life. Granted ; but still, we
ask what is there to forbid the idea that that kingdom has already commenced^
and that the Messiah's headship over it is in a continued process of development,
which will ultimately reach a consummation that shall perfectly realize the high-
est import of the language applied to it? Is the fact of his being the spiritual
king of Zion necessarily inconsistent with the fact of hiti being at the same time
h*ir literal king? It was clearly predicted that he should 'sit a priest upon his
throne,^ or that the regal and sacerdotal character should be combined in him.
But his priesthood is not the less real because it is not visibly exercised at an
earthly altar, and in connexion with an earthly temple. And so, although his
throne is not now an object of the senses on the material earth, yet we see not
why the royal succession of the line of David is not continued in Him, who is
ascended on high, and has been crowned ' Lord of all to the glory of God the
Father.'
" The suggestions now offered are intended to bear upon the mode of interpre-
tation adopted by many excellent men, both in this country and in England,
and on the ground of which they are led to look for a {ature perso7ial manifesta-
tion of Christ in his kingly character and on this terrestrial theatre. Though
fully aware of the force of the argument, as drawn from the letter of scripture,
yet we cannot assure ourselves that this is the true-meant sense, because we can-
not feel sure of being in possession of those laws of spiritual and physical being
upon which such a manifestation must necessarily depend. We are not satisfied
that the raised, spiritualized, and glorified bodies of Christ, or the saints, can be
seen by mortal eyes; nor, if they could, are we convinced that this mode of
manifestation would address itself any more effectually to the intellectual prin-
ciples of our nature than they do when seen by a purely spiritual vision. Take
the case of a single church visited by a powerful revival of religion ; does not the
presence of Christ as really, yea, and as visibly, manifest itself as if he were per-
sonally present in bodily form ? Suppose such an influence vastly extended, so
as to embrace in fact the whole world ; would there not then be such a real and
visible demonstration of the divine presence, power, and working, as would an-
swer all the demands of prophecy relative to what is often termed the personal
reign of Christ during the millennial age ?
"We throw out these queries suggestively. For ourselves, we have a latent
persuasion that the true sense of many of the prophecies, relative to the grand
futurities of the church and the world, cannot be determined without a fuller
knowledge than we at present possess, respecting the psychical conditions of our
being, and the laws that regulate the relations of matter and spirit. Who shall
define for us the precise line of demarcation, where the sight of the body ends
and that of the spirit begins ? It is to us by no means clear, that the church at
large is not to be elevated into a state of spiritual perception very much akin to
that of the prophets themselves, l)efore they can properly be said to see what the
prophet.-? have described. If these suggestions are well founded, it follows, that
study of the subjective as well as that of the objective, enters of necessity into the
sphere of prophetic elucidation." Hierophant. p. 279.
890 THRONE OF DAVID.
REMARKS. - t^
The suggestions of the foregoing article are, in our view, unusually sen-
sible, and give cheering indications that scientific and popular investigations
of prophecy are advancing in the right direction. We agree with Mr. Bush
' that the kingdom of the Son of man, instead of being properly a future ex-
pectancy, did in fact commence ages ago ;' and we attach great importance
to this view, as being essential to a right understanding of the whole drama
of the prophetic scriptures. We thuik, however, that some particulars of the
outline marked out by the typical illustration which Mr. Bush employs, may
be improved.
Taking the history of David as a miniature of Christ's progressive exalta-
tion, we cannot admit that the period of the spiritual David's exclusion from
his throne by the persecution of his rival, extends over the enormous space
of eighteen hundred years; i. e., from his anointing at his ascension, till the
present time. There is evidently some confusion and inconsistency in rep-
resenting that the kingdom of the Son of man '
in fact commenced ages ago,'
and yet that the Son of man is still as David was '
before he actually entered
upon the exercise of royal authority.' While Saul lived, David's kingdom
did not commence, but was a '
future expectancy.' His nomination and right
to the throne by the anointing of Samuel, was one thing ; the commencement
of his reign was another. Our theory of the second advent directs us to a
better way of applying the illustration.
Christ was anointed, and the decree of his sovereignty went forth, at his
ascension. He was then in the position of David after his nomination, and
before the death of Saul. Though he was God's chosen king, he had prop-
erly no kingdom either in the visible or invisible worlds. The old Mosaic
hierarchy remained in possession of that part of Israel which was in this world,
and spiritual wickedness reigned in the '
heavenly places.' (See Eph, 6: 12,
Rev. 12: 7.) He had a band of followers on earth, and also doubtless in
heaven. So David, while hiding in the wilderness from the face of Saul,
gathered ahout him a company of adherents. During the whole period of the
apostolic age, Christ, by his messengers and spirit, was making known to
heaven and earth his right to reign, and was thus working his way to the
throne of Israel. So David, by the conspicuous position which he assumed,
and the glorious deeds which he performed during the time while he was ex-
cluded and persecuted by Saul, was winning the hearts of the people, and
preparing to ascend the throne. But in both cases the Lord's anointed was
for the time being only king dejure, not king de facto*
* There is a sini^ular coincideuce with this view of the parallel between David's his.
tory during- the life of Saul, and Christ's history during- the apostolic ag-e, in the tact that
Paul, before his conversion and when he was '
breathing- out threatening- and slaughter
against the church,' was called Saul. When Christ appeared to him on the plains of
Damascus, he said 'Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me ?' Is it not allowable to sup-
pose that Christ intended by his emphatic repetition of the name, to sug-gest the coinci-
dence of Saul's spirit and course with that of his ancient namesake ? The scene admits
ot an interesting- comparison with that interview between David and Saul in the wilder-
ness ofEng-edi, when David in expostulating- with his enemy, said—' I have not sinned
ag-ainst thee, yet thou huntest my soul to take it.' 1 Sam. 24: 11. Paul bud 'profited
more than his equals :n the Jews' religion.' lie was *
a head taller than the rest of tha
THRONE OF DAVID* 891
Now instead of supposing that Christ remained in this semi-regal posture
for ages, and remains there still, as Mr. Bush's representation implies, we
find in the events connected with the destruction of Jerusalem, a counter-
part of the overthrow of Saul and the commencement of David's actual
sovereignty. From the beginning of the testimony of the gospel, the king-
dom of heaven was declared to be very near. John the Baptist cried in the
wilderness, saying—' The kingdom of heaven is at hand.' Christ proclaimed
in Galilee and Judea—' The kingdom of heaven is at hand.' The twelve,
and the seventy, were commissioned to carry abroad the tidings—' The king-
dom of heaven is at hand.' On the one hand, the bare terms of this oft-
repeated annunciation preclude the idea that the establishment of the Mes-
siah's kingdom was to be deferred eighteen hundred or two thousand years ;
and on the other we have decisive collateral evidence that it did not refer to
the ascension of Christ or to any other event previous to the destruction of
Jerusalem* As a specimen of this evidence we will simply cite Luke 21:
81,—* So likewise ye, when ye see these things [viz. the distress and ruin
of the Jewish nation by the Romans] come to pass, know ye that the king-
dom of Q-od is nigh at hand.' It cannot be doubted that this refers to the
same kingdom as that announced in the proclamation of John the Baptist, of
Christ, and of the apostles ; and its commencement is here manifestly placed
after the destruction of Jerusalem. That it was to be verg soon after that
event, is proved by the statement which follows the verse cited, viz., '
Verily
I say unto you, this generation shall notpass away., till all he fulfilled.'*—
Some event then came to pass very soon after the destruction of Jerusalem,
which was worthy to be marked as the commencement of the kingdom of
heaven. What that event was, we may help ourselves to understand, by a
tight application of Mr. Bush's illustration. Our view is, that, as Christ,
after his ascension, and during the apostolic age, was, like David before the
death of Saul, the anointed but not inaugurated and acknowledged king of
Israel, so immediately after the destruction of Jerusalem, he, like David
after the death of Saul, began to be invested with the actual sovereignty to
which he was entitled.
The only natural and proper period for the commencement of the kingdom
of the Messiah, was at the termination of the Mosaic economy ; and that
economy did not terminate either at the birth, death, or ascension of Christ,
but at the destruction of Jerusalem. The time for the cessation of the daily
sacrifice, and, with it, of the civil and ecclesiastical organization instituted by
Moses, had been appointed by the prophets, and by Christ himself. It had
been distinctly placed at the distance of a generation from Christ's personal
ministry; and accordingly it came, A. D. 70. Whatever was done before
that time, could not properly be anything more than such preparatory arrange-
ments for a new kingdom, as were made in the case of David during the
continuance of Saul's kingdom. To suppose that the kingdom of heaven
commenced before the Mosaic kingdom -had come to an end, would be ta
people' in spiritiml stature. He might tiierefore be considered as the representative oC
that king-dom which preceded and for a time rivaled Christianity, as the king-dom of Saul
preceded and rivaled that of David. In that character he persecuted Christ, and hi&
name was curiously appropriate to his position.
892 THRONE OF DAVID.
suppose tliat God placed Israel under two independent dynasties at the same
time—that David and Saul reigned contemporaneously, and both by divine
authority. And on the other hand, to suppose that the kingdom of heaven
did not commence immediately after the termination of the Mosaic kingdom,
would be to suppose that God, after having established an earthly kingdom
over Israel for a season, at last, instead of bringing in a heavenly successor
to that kingdom, abandoned his people and the world to anarchy. As David
did not commence his reign while Saul's dynasty continued, and did commence
his reign immediately after that dynasty terminated, so the kingdom of heav-
en did not come while Judaism existed, and did come immediately after its
destruction, i. e. at the cessation of the temple worship in A. D. 70.
In attempting to explain specifically the way in which we suppose the
kingdom of the antitypical Saul terminated, and the antitypical David ascen-
ded the throne, after the destruction of Jerusalem, we shall be obliged to go
into some investigation of the philosophy of the spiritual world, and to correct
some popular errors in regard to the nature and history of heaven. We say
with Mr. Bush—' we have a latent persuasion that the true sense of many
of the prophecies relative to the grand futurities of the church and the world,
cannot be determined without a fuller knowledge than we at present possess,
respecting the psychical conditions of our being, and the laws that regulate
the relations of matter and spirit ;'
and we may add—without a fuller
knowledge of the psychical conditions of the universe, and the relations be-
tween heaven and earth.
1. To the sensual mind, the visible world is the universe ; and even be-
lievers, under the influences of ordinary life, are exceedingly prone to mag-
nify that which is seen, and underrate that which is unseen. ' Out of sights
out of mind^ is a proverb that may be applied with emphasis to most men's
views of the spiritual world. The human race, by its succession of genera-
tions since the world began, has accumulated to the enormous number of at
least sixty thousand millions of souls. Of these, not more than one thousand
millions are now in the visible world. The remaining fifty-nine thousand mil-
lions are in the world of spirits. And yet we are apt to think of the invisible
part of mankind as of small account, and to allow in ourselves a vague impres-
sion that the majority, or at least most important moiety of our race is with
us, on this side of the partition between the seen and the unseen. When we
realize the actual facts in the case, we perceive that the inhabitants of this
world are but a very small minority in the empire of humanity, and that Jesus
Christ may have been crowned king of the human race, and invested with
actual sovereignty over the great mass of his destined subjects, long ago ;
though the sway of his sceptre or even the news of his coronation, may not
yet have reached us in these outskirts of his dominions. We perceive also
that the invisible world, where a vast majority of his subjects are, is tlie only
proper theatre of his installation and residence as king of men. Hence, we
conclude that he may have ascended the throne promised him—or rather
that he did ascend that throne according to his predictions, immediately after
the destruction of Jerusalem, though no very distinct tokens of his coming
and sovereignty have yet been seen in this outward world.
THRONE OF DAVID. S93
2. The popular impression is, that the world into which human souls pass
at death, has been from the beginning divided into two distinct apartments,
appropriated respectively to the righteous and the wicked ; that men have
in all ages been judged at death, i. e., the righteous have been separated
from the wicked ; and that the former have passed into a state of perfect ho-
liness and happiness, called heaven. The natural deduction from this im-
pression is, that Christ's assumption of human nature, and his coming in his
kingdom, effected no special changes in the invisible world, since the judgment
of men in that world had been a continuous process, not dependent on his
advent, and the righteous had been saved from sin and the devil as fast as
they entered heaven. Now, without attempting to '
intrude into those things
which we have not seen,' and without presuming to deny that there has been
in all ages, in the spiritual world, some incipient distribution of the righteous
and the wicked into separate apartments, which may have been called in a
relative sense heaven and hell, we may safely affirm that until Christ came
in the flesh, there was no such separation of the human race as was worthy
to be called a judgment—that there was no heaven for human souls, which
was beyond the precints of the devil's power—that no man in the visible or
invisible world was redeemed and perfected. (See Heb. 11: 13, 39, 40.)
They who imagine that the heaven appropriated to human souls was a place
of perfect holiness and happiness, before Christ became king of men, will do
well to remember that Satan was among the sons of Grod in Job's time ;
(Job
1: 6 ;) that the saints were fighting with the spiritual wickedness of the hea-
venly places, in Paul's time ;
(Eph. 6: 12 ;) that there was a terrible war
in heaven between Michael and his angels, and Satan and his angels, so late
as the time when '
the child that was to rule all nations, was caught up to
God and to his throne.' Rev. 12: 7. We are expressly informed in Heb.
9: 23, 24, that it was necessary that ' the heavenly things' [or places] should
be purified by^the blood of Christ, and that this was the meaning of the cer-
emony of sprinkling the tabernacle in the Jewish ritual. Haggai, as quoted
by Paul, predicted that when the kingdom of heaven should come, God would
' shake not only the earth, but also heaven.' Heb. 12: 26, Hag. 2: 6, 21.
The judgment and purgation of heaven, then, was the first thing which Christ
had to do when he assumed the sovereignty of the human race. With a vast
majority of his subjects in the invisible world, with a heaven and a hell not
separated by any decisive judgment, with heavenly places full of spiritual
wickedness, and with Satan still in the sanctuary, holding captive every child
of Adam, it was hardly to be expected that Christ would give much of his
attention at the beginning of his reign to the affairs of the visible province of
his empire.
8. Another popular impression, closely connected with that last noticed,
is, that heaven (using the word in that sense which refers to the invisible
habitation prepared for human souls) is, and always has been, the dwelling-
place of God. Whereas it is certain that the heaven as well as the earth
appropriated to mankind, is a part of creation; and that God existed and had
a dwelUng-place before creation, and of course is as independent of heaven as
of the earth. Heaven should be conceived of as bearing the same relation to
49
tH THEONfi 0^ DAVID.
the earth as the human soul bears to the body* They are both closely tiiip
ted parts of one great whole, which began to exist simultaneously several
thousand years ago. Both are adapted and destined to be ultimately the
temple of God ; but both, at the beginning, like the soul and body of man^
fell into the possession of the devil ; and heaven as well as earth was obliged
to Wait for the reconciliation and in-dwelling of God till the incarnation, atone-
ment, and second advent of the Messiah. With these views, we understand
that Christ when he ascended up on high, did not ascend to the human hea*
ven, or at least did not stop there. He went to the Father ; and the Father
•Was where he was before the world began, i. e. beyond the precincts of cre-
ation, above heaven, as well as the earth. (See John 17: 5.) Accordingly
it is expressly said that Christ '
ascended up far above all heavens,'
(Eph. 4: 10,) and that he was ^made higher than the heavens.^ (Heb. 7: 26.)
It follows then that what is said in the New Testament about Christ's ' com-
ing the second time,' is to be referred, not to this visible world exclusively
or chiefly, but to the whole habitation of humanity—to heaven and earthy
and principally to heaven, as being by nature, like the human soul, nearest
to God, and of the greatest account. Christ came in the flesh and dwelt
with men^-not merely with the men of this world, but in spirit with the whole
i*ace, visible and invisiye. Then he ascended to the Father, far above hea*
Ven and earth. Finally he came the second time from the Father to heaven
and earth, and assumed the sovereignty of the race. We may illustrate our
view of the matter thus : Suppose heaven and earth to be the upper and
lower stories of a house occupied by men. We hving in the lower story
and receiving all divine communications from the regions above us, are apt
to think that God lives in the upper story. But the truth is that he lives far
above the whole house. His Son is sent to establish communication with
the household. He descends to the lower story and dwells there in body^
and with the whole household in spirit, for a season. When<»he is about to
depart, he tells us that he is going where he came from, and that he shall
come again at a future time and establish himself as king of the household*
Now if we imagine that he came from the upper story, and conceive of our-
selves (i. e. the inhabitants of the lower story) as constituting the whole
household, we shall understand him as meaning that he is going to the upper
story, and will come again at the time appointed to take up his abode and
reign in the lower story. But if we bear in mind that he came from a region
far above the whole house, and that the household includes the inhabitants
of the upper as well as lower story, we shall understand him as meaning that
lie is going far above the upper story, and will come again in due time to take
Up his abode and reign in the house, choosing of course for his personal res-
idence that part of the house which has the most inhabitants, and is most
congenial to his nature, viz., the upper story. Christ's promises of coming
again have, indeed, an application to the lower story as well as to the upper.
He was to come 'in like manner^ as he ascended. This can mean nothing
less than that he was to appear personally to believers on earth ; and it can
mean notliing more than this, because none but believers saw him ascend ;
ftnd indeed Ins nature after his resurrection was evidently such that none but
THRONE OF DAVID„ 89S
spiritual persons could see him, and they only as they might see angelg,
i. e. in vision. He was to appear to some of the inhabitants of the lower
story ; but, observe, he was not to remain below, or even to come quite down
the stairs between the lower and the upper stories. Paul foretels the manner
of his coming thus :
' The Lord himself shall descend from heaven with a
shout, &c., and the dead in Christ shall rise first. Then we which are ahve
and remain, shall be caught up together with them in the clouds, to meet the
Lord in the air ; and so shall we ever be with the Lord.' IThess. 4: 16, 17,
We understand by this that the Lord was to appear to believers on earth in
a cloud, as he disappeared in a cloud, (Acts 1: 9,) and was to come near
enough to the earth to draw them to him, but that he was not actually to
aUght. His glorious appearing, with his mighty angels, and his assumption
of regal dignity, took place in the upper story; and all that was necessary
that he should do, in order to the fulfilment of his promises with reference
to the lower story, was that he should come down the stair-case far enough
to appear to those who looked for him, and take them up with him-—Avhich
we are sure he did at the time appointed, viz. immediately after the destruc*
tion of Jerusalem,
Having thus corrected our notions of the theatre of Christ's second advent,
we are now in some measure prepared to conceive what were the transactions
which ushered in the kingdom of heaven, at the termination of the Mosaic
economy. Christ came the second time from the bosom of the Father, the
holy place into which the way had never been '
made manifest while the first
tabernacle was standing.' As he passed downward he took with him an
army of angels, who occupied the highest heaven. With them he came to
the human race, and of course to the heaven appropriated to the righteous
of that race, first. There he found in God's destined place, (viz. the inner
temple of humanity,) the man of sin, Satan incarnate, pretending to be God,
and claiming divine worship. '
The Lord consumed him with the spirit of
his mouth, and destroyed him by the brightness of his coming.' 2 Thess. 2:
3—8. ' Michael and his angels fought, and the dragon and his angels; and
the dragon was cast out, and his angels were cast out with him j neither was
their place found any more in heaven.' Rev. 12: 7—9. The Lord Jesus
was revealed in the soul of the world with his mighty angels., in flaming fire,
taking vengeance on his enemies, and giving rest to his troubled believers.
2 Thess. 1: 7—8. Simultaneously with these transactions in the spiritual
world, the civil and ecclesiastical organization of the Jews on earth, which had
become the chief vehicle of antichrist, was ' dashed in pieces, like a potter's
vessel,' and the wicked men who had said ^
We will not have this man to
reign over us,' had been brought before him and slain. Luke 19: 27. Thug
the kingdom of Saul was rent from him, and David ascended the throne.
Thus Christ became king of men, and the reign of heaven over the human
race commenced.
Mr. Bush intimates that Christ, though anointed, has not yet entered up-
on his ' open, visible, and acknowledged supremacy.' We must be permit-
ted to say, that in our view^ this is not the right way of stating the case. He
has been openly seen and acknowledged King of kings, in that part of his
396 THRONE OF DAVID.
dominions where fifty-nine thousand millions of his human subjects, besides at
least tAvelve legions of angels, dwell. How much would it have added to the
splendor of his coronation if the few inhabitants of this outward world had
been present, and bowed the knee ? Suppose, when Queen Victoria publicly
ascended the throne of Great Britian, the inhabitants of the Isle of Wight
had known nothing of the affair. Would it have been proper, on that account,
to have said that she had not entered upon her 'open, visible, and acknowl-
edged supremacy' ? The inhabitants of that little isle might have thought
and said so, but the rest of Great Britian would have thought and said
otherwise.
^/ We believe that Christ has not only reigned openly and visibly in that sec-
tion of his kingdom which contains a vast majority of the human race, but
that even in this world where his authority has not yet been formally recog-
nized, the infallible proofs of his actual sovereignty are legible in the
history of all nations for the last eighteen hundred years. Let it be
borne in mind that the decree which placed him on the throne, declared that
he should '
rule the nations wiiJi a rod of iron, and dash them in pieces like
a potter's vessel' (See Psalm 2: 9, Rev. 2: 27, 12: 5.) It is evident,
then, that the first ages of his reign were to be, so far as the nations of this
world are concerned, not ages of peace and blessedness, but of revolution and
destruction. Let us look back through the history of the nations, and see
if we cannot find the marks of his iron rod. In the first place, the nation
that crucified him and attempted to destroy his testimony on earth, was dash-
ed into innumerable fragments, and scattered over the world. Next we see
the Roman Empire, which had held the world under its pohtical dominion,
and had been partner with the Jewish nation in the attempt to extirpate
Christianity, first surrendering its strong holds to the representatives of the
Nazarene, and then falling into ruin by the hands of barbarians, gathered
from the ends of the earth, by an unseen power. Here was the end of the
series of the universal monarchies. Christ, having assumed the government
of mankind, first set about removing the great general organization which
stood in his way in this world. Since the fall of the Roman Empire, the
world as a whole, has had no government over it except that of the Son of
man. And we may be sure that no nation will ever again succeed in estab-
lishing a universal monarchy. Christ's policy is evidently opposed to such
a movement ; and he has proved himself able to defeat all the combinations
of his enemies. We recognize his wisdom and power in balancing the forces
of Mohammedanism and Popery against each other, so as to cripple both in
their attempts to usurp his dominion over the world. We regard Napoleon
as almost literally the '
rod of iron' with which he '
dashed in pieces' the do-
ting monarchies of Europe. And when '
the rod shook itself against him that
lifted it up'—when Napoleon himself grasped at the sovereignty of the world,
—Christ dashed his kingdom in pieces, like a potter's vessel.
Mr. Bush's illustration, by a little extension of its application, may be
made to characterize very appropriately the reign of Christ, from the com-
mencement of his kingdom till the present time. David was invested with
, the actual sovereignty of Israel at the termination of Saul's dynasty ; but he
BIRTHRIGHT OF ISRAEL. 397
was engaged in wars with the PhiUstines, and other surrounding nations,
through his whole reign, insomuch that he was called '
a man of blood ;' and
for that reason the privilege of building the temple was reserved for Solomon.
So Christ, though he became king of men at the end of the Jewish dispensa-
tion, has been employed in the necessary work of subverting the hostile prin-
cipalities and powers of this world, till the present time. And it is manifest
that he will reign with a rod of iron, and as a man of blood, till all enemies
are put under his feet. Then he will pass from the warlike majesty of David,*
into the peaceful glory of Solomon. This is the transition that remains to be
accomphshed. The chosen King of Israel has been anointed, has been hunted
in the wilderness by Saul, has won his promised throne, has estabhshed his
everlasting kingdom, and for nearly eighteen hundred years has waged war
with the heathen nations around his empire. We look now for the advent
of everlasting victory and peace—for the building of the gorgeous temple of
the universal church—for the development in heaven and on earth, of all the
§ 58. THE BIRTHRIGHT OF ISRAEL.
We find among the prominent dogmas of popular Christianity, many notions
which certainly did not originate in the sacred writings. For example, the
New Testament, instead of enjoining, positively condemns the observance of
sabbaths ; and yet the idea has come in, and seated itself on the very throne
of the conscience of Christendom, that God has commanded men to observe
the first day of the week as especially sacred. Again, among all the current
assertions of those who are called Christians, there is perhaps not one more
frequently repeated and more surely believed, than that ' the age of miracles
is past.' Yet we find not an intimation in the Bible that the original princi-
ples of God's administration in respect to miracles, were ever to be changed.
The common belief concerning the second coming of Christ—the assumption
that the first generation of the '
Fathers' were the appointed successors of the
apostles,—that the church of the first ages after the destruction of Jerusalem
was nearly as pure as the primitive church,—are other instances of popular
imaginations, which, though they hold places of essential importance in the
common faith, are not even countenanced by scripture. To the same class
of fatherless (or perhaps we should say patristic) dogmas, we must assign
the prevailing notion that God has abrogated the special relation which for-
7mrly existed between himself and the Jewish nation.
We propose in this article to consider the relations of the Jews to God,
and to the world. Our object will be to present to our readers a distinct
view of the nature of the covenant which God made with Abraham ; to show
the original distinction which was thereby made between Jews and Gentiles
398 BIRTHRIGHT OP ISRAEL.
to give the evidence that tliis distinction still exists ; to consider the probable
and predicted consequences of the restoration of the chosen people to the
favor of God ; and lastly, the duties and obligations of the Gentiles toward
them.
Whatever we may now think, or hereafter conclude, concerning the true
design of God's covenant Avith Abraham, and its legitimate consequences, it
is obvious without discussion or proof, that its actual consequence has been,
•to divide the human race into two great parties, called Jews and Gentiles.
The distinction between these parties is such as has naturally made occasion
for the operation of selfishness and misconception. Arrogance and bigotry
have displayed themselves on the one side, jealousy and envy on the other.
So that the covenant which made the division, is like a disputed will. The
JoAV, as elder brother and principal heir, has insisted upon that interpretation
of the will, which gives him an exclusive inheritance ; and the Gentile, as the
younger and less favored claimant, has endeavored to set aside the will alto-
gether, or to nullify its invidious provisions by liberal interpretation. In at-
tempting to present a subject thus circumstanced, and to decide the ques-
tions growing out of it, the difficulty to be encountered lies noj; so much in the
intricacy of the case to be tried, as in the questionable character of the court
that is to try it. All men belong to one or the other of the interested parties ;
so that either we must needs go out of the world, or bring the matter before
a court in which lawyers, witnesses, judge and jury, are by their position ex-
posed to prejudice. Yet this difficulty is not insuperable. There is, in law
and equity, one case, and only one, in which a witness may testify in his own
cause, and a party may be judge and jury of his own case. And that is,
when the testimony of the witness, and the judgment of the interested party
are against himself. A criminal may, as witness, judge and jviry, decide his
own case, by pleading guilty. And indeed testimony and judgment which,
as in such a case, runs counter to selfishness, is properly regarded as even
stronger evidence of honesty, than the testimony and judgment of a merely
disinterested party. On this principle, Paul, being a Jew, could freely plead
the cause of the Gentiles, with all assurance, for himself, that his testimony
was not corrupted by the prejudice of selfishness, and for others, that it would
be received as honest and true. On the same principle we, being Gentiles,
may take the liberty to become witnesses and advocates for the Jews, without
fearing the charge of partiality or dishonesty.
god's covenant with ABRAHAM.
The following passages contain the several promises made to Abraham at
different times, which, taken together, constitute the covenant whose nature
and consequences we propose to examine.
' The Lord said unto Abram, Get thee out of thy country, and from thy
kindred, and from thy father's house, unto a land that I willjshow thee : and
Iwill make of thee a great nation^ and I ivill bless thee, and make thy name
^reat ; and tJiou shalt be a blessing : and I tvill bless them that bless thee,
and curse him that curseth thee : and in thee shall all families of the earth
he blessed' Gen. 12: 1—3. '.^nd the Lord appeared unto Abram, [when
BIRTHRIGHT OF ISRAEL. 899
he had come into the land of Canaan,] and said, Unto thy seed will I give
this land.'' Yer. 7. '
The Lord said unto Abram, after that Lot was sepa-
rated from him, Lift up now thine eyes, and look from the place where thou
art, northward, and southward, and eastward, and westward : for all the land
which thou seest, to thee will I give it, and to thy seed for ever. And I will
make thy seed as the dust of the earth: so that if a man can number the
dust of the earth, then shall thy seed also be numbered. Arise, walk through
the land, in the length of it, and in the breadth of it : for I will give it unto
thee.'' Chap. 13: 14—17. '
After these things, the word of the Lord came
unto Abram in a vision, saying, Fear not, Abram : I am thy shield, and thy
exceeding great reward.-^^Jjook now toward heaven, and tell the stars, if thou
be able to number them. And he said unto him, So shall thy seed be.—
Know of a surety that thy seed shall be a stranger in a land not theirs, and
shall serve them ; and they shall afflict them four hundred years : and also
that nation whom they shall serve, will I judge ; and afterward shall they
come out with great substance.-—In the fourth generation they shall come
hither again.—In that same day the Lord made a covenant with Abram,
saying, Unto thy seed have I given this land, from the river of Egypt unto
the great river, the river Euphrates.'' Chap. 15: 1, 5, 13-—18. '
When
Abram was ninety and nine years old, the Lord appeared to Abram, and
said unto him, I am the Almighty God : walk before me and be thou per-
fect. And Iwill make my covenant between me and thee, and will multi-
ply thee exceedingly. And Abram fell on his face : and God talked with
him, saying. As for me, behold my covenant is with thee, and thou shalt be
a father of many nations. Neither shall thy name any more be called Abram:
hut thy name shall be called Abraham; for a father of many nations have
Imade thee. And Iwill make thee exceeding fruitful, and I tvill make
nations of thee, and kings shall come out of thee. And 1 will establish my
covenant between me and thee, and thy seed after thee, in their generations,
for an everlasting covenant, to be a God unto thee, and to thy seed after
thee. And Iwill give unto thee and to thy seed after thee, the land wherein
thou art a stranger, all the land of Canaan, for an eve7dasting p)osses8ion ;
and I ivill be their God.^ Chap. 17: 1—8. 'And the angel of the Lord
called unto Abraham out of heaven, [after Abraham had offered Isaac,]
and said, By myself have I sworn, sadth the Lord; for because thou hast
done this thing, and hast not withheld thy son, thine only son ; that in
blessing I will bless thee, and in multip)lying I will multiply thy seed as the
stars of the heaven, and as the sand which is up)on the sea-shore ; and thy
seed shall possess the gate of his enemies : and in thy seed shall all the
nations of the earth be blessed.^ Chap. 22: 15—18.
OBSERVATIONS ON THE COVENANT.
I. The Nature of the Covenant. These promises are of two kinds^r
general and specific.
1. *
I will bless thee and thy seed after thee, I will be a God to thee and
to thy seed,' &c., are general promises, demanding the largest interpretation
^Yhich the known power of the promisor admits. If a man should say to &
400 BIRTHRIGHT OF ISRAEL.
child—* I will be sl father to you/ he would be understood as engaging to do
all in his power for the welfare of the child. His meaning might be limited
in the mind of the child, and in the minds of other ignorant persons, by other
measures of good. For instance, if the child knows no other good than that
of eating and drinking, to him the promise only means—' I will supply you
with food.' If afterwards his knowledge and desire of good, become enlarged,
the meaning of the promise is also enlarged. He discovers that clothing,
money, education &c., are included in the promise: and finally he learns
that his own conceptions are not the measure of his benefactor's meaning ;
that the promise includes any thing and every thing that a father can bestow
upon a son. Thus the general promises which God made to Abraham, how-
ever they may have been understood by Abraham then, actually included all
the blessings which have been bestowed upon him since, even salvation and
eternal life. And the promise concerning his seed—' I will be their God'
'
—however it may have been limited in the imagination of the Jews, is actu-
ally an engagement to bless them not merely physically, but morally, intellec-
tually, and spiritually—to train them for immortality. Of course it is a prom-
ise of all the necessary means of education and salvation. In short, this
comprehensive spiritual promise, '
to be a God to Abraham and to his seed
after him,' is one which in its full, natural sense, secured to Abraham and
his seed all possible good. All the promises of temporal blessings cluster
around this, and are subordinate to it ; as appears by the fact that the tem-
poral blessings were all prospective, while this spiritual blessing was then
present. ' God gave not the promised land to Abraham, nor to his descend-
ants, till the fourth generation. The fathers were pilgrims in it, and the
children were captives in another land ; whereas he said to Abraham, ' I am
thy shield, and thy exceeding great reward.' And in like manner he mani-
fested himself to Isaac and Jacob, and their children, as their preseyit God.
The largest and almost the last promise in the New Testament—the revelation
of Jesus Christ—is only a repetition of this covenant with Abraham :
' He
that overcometh shall inherit all things ; and Iwill he his God, and he shall
be my son.' Rev. 21: 7.
2. The specific promises of the covenant are, (1,) to give Abraham an
innumerable seed ; (2,) to give them the land of Canaan for an everlasting
possession. These promises 2iVQ physical ; and we have reason to believe
that at the time the covenant was made, mankind had made so little progress
in moral, intellectual, and spiritual knowledge, that any specific promises
other than physical, either could not have been expressed for want of lan-
guage, or would not have been understood, by reason of ignorance.
As we must not suffer the specific promises to eclipse the general, and so
imagine that the covenant promised only, or chiefly, physical blessings ; nei-
ther on the other hand must we suffer the general to swallow up the specific,
and so imagine that the covenant promised merely spiritual blessings. If a
man should say to a child, *
I will be a father to you—I will do all I can for
you—and when you become a man, I will give you a hundred acres of land,'
it would be wrong on the one hand to refer the covenant exclusively or chiefly
to the hundred acres of land j for education, moral discipline, &c., are far
BIRTHRIGHT OF ISRAEL. 401
greater blessings which it is a father's business to dispense, and which are
therefore included in the general promise, which general promise is therefore
the main part of the covenant. And it would be wrong on the other hand,
to regard the specific promise of the hundred acres, as satisfied by the fulfil-
ment of the general promise.
THE DISTINCTION MADE BY THE COVENANT.
To whom were the promises made? The several promises of the covenant
may be distinguished with reference to the persons concerning whom they
were made. Though all the promises were made to Abraham, they were
made /or, (1) himself and his descendants, (2) for all nations. The prom-
ises for himself and his descendants, were direct, constituting a marriage
relation between them and God. The promises for other nations were indi-
rect, making the Jews mediators. '
I will be a God to thee and to thy seed,'
is direct ; —' and in thee shall all nations be blessed,' is indirect. It is as if
he had said, '
I will be a husband to Israel, and Israel shall be the husband
of all other nations.'
The covenant made with Abraham did not, as the Jews afterwards came
to beUeve, promise blessings to his literal seed, irrespective of their moral and
spiritual character ; neither did it promise blessings to his spiritual seed, that
is, to the followers of his faith, merely, as the Gentiles are disposed to believe.
In the first case, God would have been a respecter of persons, without refer-
ence to their character, which is unworthy of him ; and in the second case,
the question might well be asked, and could never be answered as Paul an-
swered it
—' What advantage then hath the Jew V—or which is the same
thing, What special promise was given to Abraham ? A covenant of the
kind first supposed, looking merely at the physical posterity of Abraham,
would have been a contempt of his spiritual character, and could have been
by no means desirable, even to himself. And a covenant of the kind last
supposed, looking merely at his spiritual descendants, or foUovfers, w^ould
have been, in fact, simply a general promise of blessing to those who fear and
serve God, which from the foundation of the world has been given to all, and
not specially to Abraham. The real covenant which God made with Abrar
ham, looks both at his physical and spiritual posterity ; and the peculiarity
of its promise is, that the literal descendants of Abraham shall be the subjects
of the special discipline and instruction of God, and of course as a nation shall
be the sjnritual descendants of Abraham. As all righteousness originates,
not with man, but with God, and as he dispenses the gifts of liis grace to every
man, and, by equal reason, to every nation and family, as he pleases, it was
for him to choose the subjects of that instruction and discipline which should
make men partakers of his righteousness. And he chose the seed of Abra-
ham, and covenanted with Abraham to give him a spiritual seed out of his
literal seed. So that while it is true that '
he is not a Jew who is one out-
wardly,' and that God hates sin as truly in a Jew as in a Gentile, and even
more in proportion to their greater privileges ;
—while it is true that ' in every
nation he that feareth God and worketh righteousness is accepted of him ;'
while it is true that he will destroy the Jew that believes not, and w^ill save
50
402 EIRtllRIGIIT OF ISRAEL.
the Geiitile that believes ; while it is true that the door is open for the Geti'
tiles to come in and become fellow heirs ;—it is still true, that the literal seed
of Abraham have been special subjects of God's gracious operations ; and it
is rational to conclude that the fruit of righteousness in that nation will be
found ultimately to be proportionate to the specialty of his grace toward
them* Hence Paul, after opening the door to the Gentiles, and declaring
that '
he is not a Jew Avho is one outwardly,' still has a forcible answer to the
question, '
What advantage then hath the Jew ? or what profit is there of
circumcision ?—Much every way ; cliiefly, because that unto them were com-'
mitted the oracles of G-od.^ Not because God stood engaged to show favor
ultimately to the Jews, irrespective of their character, neither because the
Gentiles were unconditionally excluded from the blessings of righteousness ;
but because God chose for Abraham's sake to commit his oracles, i^ e. special
revelations of himself, primarily to the Jews, thereby giving them greater
advantages, and securing among them a greater proportion of righteousness
than in any other nation.
The distinction which God made between the Jews and all other nations^
by his covenant with the former, is clearly set forth in such language as the
following : '
Thou art an holy people unto the Lord thy God : the Lord thy
God hath chosen thee to he a special people unto himself^ above all people
that are upon the face of the earth. The Lord did not set his love upon you
nor choose you, because ye were more in number than any people : but be^
cause the Lord loved you, and because he would keep the oath which he had
sworn unto your fathers, hath the Lord brought yoU out with a mighty hand,
and redeemed you out of the house of bondmen, from the hand of Pharaoh
king of Egypt.' Deut. 7: 6—8. '
The Lord hath avouched thee this day
to be his peculiar people, as he hath promised thee, and that thou shouldst
keep all his commandments ; and to make thee high above all natioiis which
he hath made, in praise, and in name and in honor ; and that thou mayst
he an holypeople unto the Lord thy God, as hehath spoken.^ Deut. 26: 18,
19. See also Deut. 14: 1, 2, Ps. 135: 4. As 'the gifts and calling of
God are without repentance,' (i. e. without change of mind in him,) there
is no reason to doubt that the covenant which gives to the Jew peculiar ad-
vantages, is still in full force ; and that the arrangements of God's govern^
ment over the world, are made with special reference to the discipline and
salvation of the Jews, in order that all other nations may be ultimately blessed
in them. As Gentiles, therefore, we have reason to thank God that the bless^
ing of Abraham and his seed, involves the blessing of all the famihes of the
earth*
In his dealings with the world, God has thus far strictly conformed to the
terms of the arrangement made by his covenant with Abraham ; and he has
blessed the Gentiles only through the Jews.
'To the Jew pertain the covenants.' In respect to the first covenant,
there is no dispute. The doubtful question is, whether the new covenant
(as intimated in the expression of Paul) also pertains primarily to the Jew*
The following facts decide this question in the affirmative. (1) Christ, who
came to establish the new covenant, said explicitly, '
I am not sent but unto
BIRTHRIGHT OF ISRAEL. 403
the lost sheep of the house of Israel.' (2) He instructed his disciples also,
in their first mission, to '
go not into the >Yay of the Gentiles—but to go ra*
ther to the lost sheep of the" house of Israel.' Matt. 10: 5, 6. And even
Avhen he commissioned them, after his resurrection, to teach all nations, he
directed them to preach the gospel first at Jerusalem and in Judea. See Luke
24: 47, Acts 1: 8. (3) He gave the symbol of the new covenant only to
Jews. Matt. 26: 27. (4) The new covenant was promised to the same
people as the first covenant, i. e., '
to the house of Israel and the house of
Judah'—the people whose fathers God led out of the land of Egypt.—
(5) Paul, though he was the apostle to the Gentiles, acted in all cases
according to the foregoing instructions of Christ to his disciples ;
preaching
the gospel first to the Jew, and turning to the Gentile only when rejected by
the Jew.
Up to the time of Paul's conversion, there had been no preaching to the
Gentiles. About the same time that he was called to be an apostle to the
Gentiles, the interview between Cornelius and Peter took place, which .was
the opening of the door to the Gentiles. Hence it appears that the whole
of Christ's personal ministry, and the first five years of the personal miniS'
try of his apostles, were given exclusively to the Jews. We may form some
estimate of the number of these first Jewish converts to Christianity, from
the following facts : —1st. There were upwards of five hundred who were
called brethren, previous to Christ's ascension. 1 Cor. 15: 6. 2d. Three
thousand were converted on the day of Pentecost. (It may be said of these,
that they were Parthians, Medes, &c. But it should be noticed that they
are before spoken of as '
Jews, devout men, out of every nation under
heaven, dwelling at Jerusalem ;' that they are addressed by Peter as men
of Israel ;'
that they were assembled at Jerusalem at a Jewish feast ; and
that the subsequent conduct of Peter and others to Cornelius, shows that they
had never before preached to the Gentiles.) 3d. We find shortly after the
day of Pentecost, that the number of believers was about five thousand, in
Jerusalem. And agahi soon afterwards it is said, ' Believers were the more
added to the Lord, multitudes both of men and women.' Acts 4: 4, 5: 14.
4th. Paul preached first to the Jews, and confounded them, at Damas-
cus. 5th. About the time of his conversion, we read, ^ then had the churches
rest throughout all Jadea, and Galilee, and Samaria, and were edified ; and
Avalking in the fear of the Lord, and in the comfort of the Holy Ghost, were
multiplied.'' All this was done previous to the opening of the door to the
Gentiles, by the vision of Cornelius and the preaching of Peter. Adding to
this, the fact that the ministry of all the apostles afterwards, was mainly de-
voted to the Jews—also that it was the rule even of the apostle of the Gen-
tiles, as before mentioned, to preach to the Jews first, and to turn to the Gen-
tiles only when rejected by the Jews,—we see that the root and first-fruits of
the primitive church were Jews : thus, that God literally fulfilled his prom-
ises to Abraham and the fathers ; that he hterally gave the new covenant as
well as the old, to ' the house of Israel and the house of Judah.' We see
also the peculiar propriety of Paul's address to the Thessalonians :
' Ye brethv
ren, became followers of the churches of God, which in Judea are in Christ;
404 BIRTimiGIIT OF ISKAEL.
Jesus.' The 'primitive church of the primitive church were Jews, Accord-
ing to the parable of the weddmg supper, God did not send out into the high-
ways and hedges, until after he had invited the more respectable guests.
Thus the fact is established that the same partiality for the seed of Abra-
ham, which was manifested from the beginning through the Mosaic dispensa-
tion, also existed in the time of Christ and the publication of the gospel, and
controlled his proceedings in the dispensation of the new covenant. Our
inference then is, that there is nothing in that partiality inconsistent with the
spirit of the new dispensation ; and hence, that that partiality still exists. It
was not surely in the time of Christ, a partiality originating in the merits
of the Jews of that generation, but in God's love and promises to Abraham
and the fathers. These reasons for it still exist, in as full force now as then.
Whatever may be their character, we have Paul's assertion that ' they are
beloved for their father's sake.'
We refer the reader to the following passages, as showing the priority of
the Jews in respect to the offer and reception of the gospel : Matt. 10: 5,
6, 15: 22—26, 27: 11, 37. Luke 1: 33, 68—80, 24: 47. Jno. 4:
22. Acts 3: 25, 26, 13: 16, 26, 46, 28: 17—28. Rom. 1: 16, 2: 9,
10, 15: 8, 9. 1 Thess. 2: 14. James 1: 1. Rev. ch. 7, 14: 1—6.
OBJECTIONS.
I. It may be objected, that in bringing in Christ and the gospel through
the Jews, God accomplished the object he had in view in separating them
from the nations ; and that he has thenceforth regarded them in no peculiar
sense as his ov/n people ; in other words, that at the destruction of Jerusalem,
when the Mosaic theocracy terminated, God's interest for the Jewish nation
was merged and lost in his general interest for the world.
1. If this be true, we ask, why was not the nation itself merged in other
nations ? Their history since, is a most perfect fulfilment of the prophecy
that he would ' sift them among all nations, . . . yet shall not the least grain
fall to the earth.' Amos 9: 9. '
Though I make a full end of all nations
whither I have scattered thee, yet will I not make a full end of thee ; but I
will correct thee in measure, and will not leave thee altogether unpunished.'
In destroying Jerusalem, and dissolving their political existence, and causing
the daily sacrifice to cease, he scourged the nation, but did not destroy it.
And even while he scattered them among all nations, mstead of destroying
their national spirit of unity, he increased it and proved its strength. They
have outlived the Roman Empire that trod them down ; so that it may be
said, that God has destroyed before their eyes the rod with which he scourged
them, and they have outlived their punishment. They have seen an eccle-
siastical empire rise out of the ruins of the kingdom that destroyed them ;
and again they have suffered by this new rod, tortures equalled only by those
that went before ; and still they outlive their punishment. They are the
only nation that we are acquainted with in the world, that has retained its
individuality since the destruction of Jerusalem. This wonderful fact is, of
itself, Avithout reference to prophecy, sufficient proof that God has ulterior
views concerning them.
BIRTHRIGHT OF ISRAEL. 405
2. The termination of the Mosaic theocracy at the destruction of Jerusa-
lem, was not the termination of the Abrahamic nation, but rather a return to
the simphcity of the unorganized state of their fathers. They have since, Hke
Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, been strangers and pilgrims, seeking a city out
of sight. In fact, the Jews are now eighteen hundred years older than any
other nation, in a discipline which is absolutely necessary to fit them for the
final kingdom of God. So that so far as paternal scourging and discipline
can indicate God's ulterior purposes concerning any nation, there is abundant
evidence that the Jews are yet destined to the glorious distinction which God ^
promised to Abraham.
3. The fact that the Jews are yet on the stage, and in all the pecuharity
of their ancient character, shows that the drama in which they are called to
play a distinguished part, was not finished at the coming of Christ and the
introduction of the gospel. By the manifest providence of God, the Jews,
who were eighteen hundred years ago the principal actors on the stage, are
still in existence, and still as great a wonder to the world as ever.
4. By their dispersion, their suifering, and consequent peculiar discipline, ^
they are manifestly fitted to become principal actors in the predicted denoue-
ment which shall subject the world to a federal theocracy. T"
II. The ^awful wickedness' of the Jews, may be urged by many, as inconsis-
tent with the supposition that they are still regarded by God as his chosen
people. To this objection it may be replied, that it is by no means certain
that the Jews are, or have been, more wicked than other nations, except it
be at some particular periods of their history ; and that at those periods God
visited them with such signal judgments as showed his impartial justice, and
manifested to the world his hatred of iniquity, though it was found in his cho-
sen people. He declared to them explicitly by Moses, that it was not for their
own righteousness that he was about to give them the proiaised land, but that
he chose them of his own free love, and because he would keep the covenant
which he had made with their fathers. '
Know therefore,' says he, '
that the
Lord thy God, he is the faithful God, who heepeth covenant and mercy with
them that love him, to a thousand generations^^ &c. See Deut. 7: 7—10,
and 9: 5, 6. As a thousand generations are not yet passed since the cove-
nant was made with Abraham, it must, according to this passage, remain still
in force.
We admit that at some particular periods in Jewish history, their wicked-
ness has been very great. This was the case just before the Babylonish cap-
tivity, as is manifest from the testimony of the prophets, who were sent to
rebuke and warn them. It was because of their iniquities, that they were
suffered to be carried into captivity. Again, the generation that crucified
Christ, and rejected his apostles and his gospel, was most wicked of all. Of
this generation it was said, that all the righteous blood which had been shed
on the earth, from Abel to Zacharias, should come upon them. But God has
said he will ' visit the miquities of the fathers upon the children [only] to the
third and fourth generation.' And in the history of the wickedness and suf-
fering of three or four generations subsequent to the crucifixion of Christ,
this threatening of God seems to have been fulfilled. The limitation of tho
406 BIRTHRIGHT OF ISRAEL.
special wickedness, and consequent suffering of the Jews, to those generations,
removes the odium cast upon them by the Gentiles as being 'awfully wicked.'
It should be borne in mind that the guilt of that nation in rejecting the
gospel, pertained especially to the generation that lived in the time of Christ
and of the primitive church, and the generations immediately following : for
in rejecting the Christianity of subsequent ages, they have rejected not Chris-
tianity itself, but only its counterfeits. In the introduction of any new doc-
trine, two things are to be looked for as the causes of its rejection by the
common people : 1st, the misrepresentations of counterfeit teachers and
proselytes of the doctrine ; 2d, the misrepresentations of the leaders and
teachers of those who reject it. Both of these causes unquestionably operated
in the separation of the Jews from the gospel, and their continued rejection
of it, since. The common people heard Christ gladly, until they were drawn
away from him by their teachers. Paul mentions those who as false teach-
ers of Christianity, '
cause the way of truth to be evil spoken of.' At this
day, the Rabbins of the Jews and the Doctors of Christianity, are virtually
leagued, for the separation of Jews and Christians from one another, and
from Christ. Imprudence also, on the part of professors of Christianity, may
have had some influence, as well as misrepresentations. See Ezek. cti. 34.
There can be no doubt that a great part of the odium which the Gentiles
have cast on the Jews for their wickedness, has been the result of a deeply
rooted prejudice and hatred on the part of the Gentiles, or even of the ava-
rice of their oppressors seeking a pretext for extortion. The seditions and
rebellions of the Jews against the governments that ruled over them previous
to the dissolution and dispersion of the nation, excited the intense hatred of
their enemies, who took pains to infuse the same hatred into the minds of all
nations among whom the Jews were scattered. And since the time of their
last dispersion, their history has been in great part a dismal record of the
contempt, extortions, banishments, and even cruel massacres, which they have
suffered from the hands of the Gentiles. Denied the rights and privileges of
common citizens, driven from land to land, and stigmatized by both Christians
and Mahometans, as an accursed race ; it is no wonder that, bhnded as they
have been to the gospel, they should sometimes resort to unjustifiable means
of supporting themselves against their oppressors. The wickedness with which
they have been charged, may have been in part the natural reaction of the
-wickedness of their enemies.
NUMMARY OF THE ARGUMENT FOR THE PERPETUITY OP GOD'S SPECIAL FA-
VOR TO THE JEWS.
I. The covenant with Abraham is unlimited, or rather explicitly perpetual..
(See the passages which describe the covenant, before quoted ; especially
Gen. 17: 1—8.)
II. The history of the Jews which the scriptures contaui, is a practical
commentary on this covenant, showing, 1st, that the promises specially per-
tained to the natural seed of Abraham ; and 2d, that these promises were
wholly independent of the personal merits of the Jews. By referring to Gen.
46: 3, and Exodus 1: 7, for example, we find that God's promise to multiply
BIRTHRIGHT OF ISRAEL. 407
the seed of Abraham and make of him a great nation, was literally fulfilled
to his natural seed. The 105th Psdm describes God's wonderful works with
the Jews, up to the time of their entering the land of Canaan. Deut. 4: 7,
8, 23—38, is also descriptive of the great things God did for his people not-
withstanding their sins, and is a commentary on his covenant. See also Neh.
9: 7—88.
III. Such being the covenant, and its commentary, up to the time of
Christ, it is evident that it must be regarded as remaining beyond that time,
unless there is explicit evidence to the contrary. No such evidence is found
in the New Testament, or in the history of the Jews since, but the contrary.
If it is said that the promise was to Abraham and his seed, and that seed is
Christ ; and that the covenant with the rest of the Jewish nation is dissolved ;
we answer, facts which we have already examined, show that the covenant,
interpreted as above, remained in force after the birth of Christ, and was
recognized and observed by him. Again, if it is said that the covenant was
dissolved by the death of Christ, that the Jews, in crucifying him, renounced
their birthright ; we answer, as before, that facts show that it remained in
force. (Such for instance as the offer of the gospel first to the Jews in the
preaching of the apostles.) Again, if it is said, that by the rejection of the
gospel they lost their birthright ; and that at the destruction of Jerusalem
they ceased to be the people of God, we answer, that their captivity and dis-
persion at that time is no more proof of the termination of the covenant, than
any of their previous captivities and calamities. Moreover, their history since
is a counterbalancing proof of the continuance of the covenant. . We search
through the New Testament, and through the subsequent history of the Jews^
and find no such explicit declaration of a change in the views and feelings of
God toward the Jews, as the importance of such a change would require.
And well may God ask those Christians who assume that such a change has
taken place, '
Where is the hill of your mother's divorcement V Isa. 50: 1.
But the evidence in relation to this matter is not merely negative, though
that would be sufficient. We find Christ and his apostles repeatedly alluding
to the coming desolations of the Jews, and always adding such limitations as
show that the love and faithfulness of God, in this as in all previous cases^
stretches over and beyond the abyss of their calamities. For example, Christ
says, ' Jerusalem shall be. trodden down of the Gentiles, [how long ?—not
for ever, but] imtil the times of the Gentiles he fulfilled.'' And again, he
says to Jerusalem, '
Your house is left unto you desolate, [how long 'i-—not
for ever, but] till ye shall say^ Blessed is he that eometh in the name of
the Lord,^ Again, Paul says,- ^
that bHndness in part is happened to Israel,
[not for ever, but] till the fulness of the Gentiles be come in.' And he
adds an explicit prediction, that ultimately God will take away their sins,
according to his covenant with their fathers.
In numerous passages of the Old Testament, the reader will find further
testimony in relation to the future destiny of the Jews. We refer to the fol*
lowing, as some of the principal:
Deut. 30: 1—9. Isaiah 11: 11—13, 12: 1, 2, 51: 17, 21—23, 54;
1—14. Jeremiah 31: 31—40, 32: 37—41, 33: 7—9, 24—26. Ezek.
408 BIRTHRIGHT OP ISRAEL.
36: 24—34, 37: 21—28, 39: 25—29. Hosea 2: T, 14—23, 3: 4, 5,
14: 4—8. Joel 3: 14, 16, 17, 20, 21. Amos 9: 14—15. Micah 4:
6—8. Zechariah 8: 3—8, 10: 6—12.
CONSEQUENCES OF THE PREDICTED RESTORATION.
In speaking of the restoration of the Jews, it is fit that we should clearly
understand what is meant by that expression ; and that we should not think
of it merely as a reorganization of the Jewish nation,, and the replacing of
them in the territory which was occupied by their fathers. By the restora-
tion of Israel, as predicted in the scriptures which we have already referred
to on that point, it appears to be plainly implied, 1st, that they are to re-
sume their place as the peculiar people of God ; and 2d, that they are to
become the medium of God's favor toward all other nations. It is not im-
plied that they are restored to the Mosaic ceremonial institutions, or even to
circumcision ; for the original covenant with Abraham which constituted his
seed a royal priesthood to the world, was made before the giving of the law,
and also before circumcision, and of course was independent of them. All
the externals of Judaism are only subsequent adjuncts to the Abrahamic
covenant, instituted for the purpose of carrying it into effect, and not con-
stituent elements of that covenant. So Paul says of Abraham, Rom. 4: 11,
&c., *
He received the seal of circumcision," a sign of the righteousness which
he had yet being uncircumcised.' Again, '
The promise that he should be
the heir of the world, was not to Abraham, or to his seed, through the law,
but, through the righteousness of faith.' And again. Gal. 3: 17, 18, '
The
covenant that was confirmed before of God, in Christ, the law, which w^as
four hundred and thirty years after, cannot disannul, that it should make the
promise of none effect. For if the inheritance be of the law, it is no more
of promise ; but God gave it to Abraham by promise.' The Jews, in cleav-
ing to the institutions of Moses, as being essential to their inheritance, wholly
put out of view the original covenant with Abraham, and the true object of
those institutions. As Christ said '
the sabbath was made for man, and not
man for the sabbath ;' so it may be said of the whole Mosaic economy, and
of circumcision, that they were made for the Jews, and not the Jews for
them. And in restoring the Jews to their inheritance in Abraham, it is by
no means necessary to replace them under the ceremonial economy.
Let us now consider the probable and predicted consequences of reinsta-
ting the Jews in the favor of God, and giving them a pre-eminence among
the nations of the earth.
1. One of the first and most important efiects, doubtless, will be to mani-
fest and exalt before all the world, the truth and faithfulness of God. He is
called by Moses, emphatically, the faithful god ; and the constant testi-
mony of the Bible concerning him is, that his word shall stand forever—that
his truth shall endure to all generations. Now his promise to Abraham was,
that he would give to him and his seed after him the land of Canaan for an
everlasting possession ; and that in his seed all the nations of the earth should
be blessed. And when he called the Israelites forth out of Egypt, his declared
object was to make them '
a special people unto himself above all people that
BIRTHRIGHT OP ISRAEL. 409
arc itpon tKe face of the earth ;' and '
that he might keep the oath which he
had sworn unto their fathers.' But although the Jews, during the time of
their national prosperity, enjoyed distinguished privileges, and were in
many respects a pecuUar people, as compared with other nations,—yet they
became in a short time degenerate and corrupt, and, as Ezeldel declares, the
name of the Lord was profaned by them among the heathen. Having been
at length expelled from their own land, they have long been '
a hissing and a
by-word among all nations whither they were scattered.' What then shall we
say to these things ? Shall this reproach never be removed ? Shall it be
said that God undertook to train up a nation for himself,—to make them ' a
holy people,' who should show forth his glory ; and that he has utterly failed
of accomplishing his object ? If it be so—if he fails in this instance,—what
security have we that he will not fail in any or all other instances ? And what
assurance can we have that the kingdoms of this world will ever become the
kingdoms of Christ t When the people of Israel had greatly provoked the
anger of God, by their apostasy, the voices of the prophets were heard de-
nouncing judgments, and predicting the desolation which should come upon
the nation : yet still, looking beyond the period of their rejection and their
calamities, they foretold (as our previous quotations have shown) that in the
last days the scattered house of Israel should return and be built up ; that
Jerusalem should then be holy, and be called '
the city of righteousness,
THE FAITHFUL CITY ;'
that '
whcrcas it had been forsaken and hated, it
should become ^an eternal excellency, a joy op many generations ;'
moreover, that *
the Gentiles should come to her light, and kings to the
brightness of her rising ;'
and that the forces and wealth of the Gentiles
should be made subservient to her exaltation.
Thus we may see that the restoration and spiritual renovation of the Jew-
ish nation, by fulfilling these glorious promises, would confirm the truth of the
word of God, overthrow unbelief, and so prepare the way for the reign of
righteousness through faith.
2. Another consequence of restoring the Jews and exalting them to a lead-
ing position among the nations, will be the humiliation of the Gentiles.—
The Gentile nations which have long held possession of the land given by
covenant to Abraham and his seed, have not only disregarded the claims of
the true heirs, and the purpose of God concerning them, but have even exul-
ted in their downfall, have rejoiced in their calamity, and have trodden them
under foot. ' Thus they have despised my people,' says the Lord by the
prophet, '
that they should be no more a nation before them.' But God has
declared his purpose to judge and punish the nations for their impious disre-
gard of his covenant with Israel. Even the Jews' restoration, which we find
to be so clearly and fully foretold in the language w^e have referred to in
the prophets, is not more unequivocally predicted than are God's judgments
against those nations that have abused his people. Hear his rebuke of Edom
for this offense :
—' For thy violence against thy brother Jacob, shame shall
cover thee, and thou shalt be cut off for ever. In the day that strangers
carried away captive his forces, and foreigners entered into his gates and cast
lots upon Jerusalem, even thou wast as one of them ; but thou shouldst not
51
410 BIRTHRIGHT OF ISRAEL.
Jiave looked on the day of thy brother in the day that he became a stranger j
heither shouldst thou have rejoiced over the children of Judah in the day of
their destruction ; neither shouldst thou have spoken proudly in the day of
distress. Thou shouldst not have entered into the gate of my people in the
day of their calamity ;
yea, thou shouldst not have looked on their affliction
in the day of their calamity, nor have laid hands on their substance in the
day of their calamity ; neither shouldst thou have delivered up those of his
that did remain in the day of distress. For the day of the Lord is near upon
all the heathen : as thou hast done^ it shall be done unto thee : thy reward
shall return upon thine own head.' Obad. 10^—15. Language similar in pur-
port to the foregoing is used by many of the prophets ; and indeed it is usual
to find, in immediate connection with the foretold restoration of the Jews, pre-
dicted vengeance against their oppressors^ We will quote a few specimens^
' I will contend with him that contendeth with thee^ and I will save thy
children. And I will feed them that oppress thee with their own flesh.' &Cj
' Behold, I have taken out of thine hand the cup of trembhng, even the dregs
of the cup of my fury ; thou shalt no more drink it again : but I will put it
into the hand of them that afflict thee,' &c. Isa. 49: 26, 26, 51: 22, 23v
The following passage forcibly describes the exaltation of Israel, and the hu-
mihation of the Gentiles:
—'The sons of strangers shall build up thy walls, and
their kings shall minister to thee For the nation and kingdom that
will not serve thee shall perish ;
yea^ those nations shall be utterly wasted*
The sons also of them that afflicted thee shall come bending to thee ; and all
they that despised thee shall bow themselves down at the soles of thy feet
and they shall call thee '
The City of the Lord,' '
The Zion of the Holy One
of Israel.' Isa. 60: 10, 12, 14. The prophet Joel says also,—' In those
days, and in that time, when I shall bring again the captivity of Judah and
Jerusalem, I will also gather all nations, and will bring them down into the
valley of Jehoshaphatj and will plead with them for my people, and for my
heritage Israel, whom they have scattered among the nations, and parted
my land Let the heathen be wakened, and come up to the valley of
Jehoshaphat ; for there will I sit to judge all the heathen round about.'
Joel 3: 1, 2, 12.
These are only a few of the passages found in the prophetic writings, touch-
ing this subject. For further similar testimony, the reader may examine the
following references. Deut. 30: 7. Jer. 12: 14—17. 30: 16. Ezek. chaps,
25, 26, 35; and 36: 1—8. Zeph .3: 19. Zech. 2: 8, 9. 12: 3, 4, 9. 14: 12.
By examining the foregoing quotations and references, it will appear that
the cause w^hich God usually assigned for the punishments with which he
threatened various nations, was their contempt of his people, and the wrongs
which they had done to them. And we conclude, from the clear indications
of prophecy, that the approaching judgment of the Gentiles—Hhe battle of
the great day,' which shall break in pieces the kingdom^ of this world'—Avill
be made to turn chiefly on this point ; viz., the resistance which the infidel
powers of the Gentiles will make to the movements of God, by which he will
accomplish his purpose of placing the Jews at the head of the nations, and
establish his own dominion over all the earth.
BIRTHRIGHT OF ISRAEL. 411
The elevation of the Jews to the commanding positon we have spoken of,
will doubtless be so accomplished, that while the Gentiles are humbled, all
occasion of pride and boasting will be cut off from the Jcavs. The Jews will
be humbled when thej are made to receive the gospel of Christ through the
Gentiles ; when thej shall remember their own evil ways-—their long and
obstinate unbelief; (See Ezek. 36: 31, Zeph. 3: 11 ;) and the Gentiles will
be humbled by being made to acknowledge the Jewish nation as the federal
head of the world. Thus, according to the words of Isaiah, '
The loftiness
of man shall be bowed down, and the haughtiness of men shall be made low ;
and the Lord alone shall be exalted in that day.'
^
3. We conclude that another most important consequence of establishing
the JcAvs as the '
Royal Nation,' would be to give the greatest facility to the
universal pubHcation of the gospel, and the subjugation of the world to
Christ. What nation would be so well qualified as the Jews, both from their
historical character, and from the lessons which they must have learned in
their long and wide dispersion, to become the head of a federal Theocracy,
Having seen the operation of the various laws of human governments, and
felt the miseries of oppression, they could well appreciate the value of just j
and humane statutes. Again ; when '
the vail shall be taken away from -*
their hearts,' and '
the Deliverer out of Zion shall have turned away ungod'
iiness from Jacob,' what people would be so well fitted as they, to become
missionaries of the gospel in all the world ? Having been scattered among
^ all nations and tongues,' and become acquainted with all forms of religion
and having explored the dark abodes of heathen idolatry and superstition
who would be so capable as they of adapting themselves, as preachers of the
word, to the peculiarities and wants of all the Gentile nations ? We shall do
well to remember the declaration of Isaiah concerning ' the last days'—when
Hhe moimtain of the Lord's house shall be established in the top of the moun^
tains, and all nations shall flow unto it '—that then, '
out of ZioiS" shall go
forth the law, and the word of the Lordfrom Jerusalem.'
When the chosen people shall be restored to their inheritance, and
' the Spirit shall be poured upon them from on high,' (see Isa, 32: 15,)
then may we expect to witness a more complete fulfilment of that prophecy
of Joel which Peter quoted: viz., '
It shall come to pass in the last days,
(saith God,) I ivill pour out my sjmHt upon all /?esA,' &c. We know that
this prophecy had an incipient fulfilment (a fulfilment in miniature, so to
speak) on the'^day of Pentecost. Yet Ave cannot doubt that a more full and
and glorious accomplishment awaits it hereafter, which shall realize the truth
of another inspired prediction, that Hhe earth shall he full of the knoivledge
of the Lord as the waters cover the sea.''
DUTIES OF THE GENTILES TOWARD THE JEWS.
.We have considered the nature of God's covenant with Abraham and his
seed ; we have shown that the promises of that covenant are both general and
specific—that they are promises of both spiritual and physical blessings ; that
they are made to the literal seed of Abraham ; and that the literal seed shall
at length become the true spiritual seed. We have shown also, that the
412 BIRTHRIGHT OF ISRAEL.
distinction which was originally made between Jews and Gentiles, still re-
mains ; that in God's deahngs with mankind he has acted in accordance with
that distinction ; and that tlie preservation of the Jews as a distinct nation
for so many ages, even to the present day, through miparalleled persecutions
and sufferings, is strong presumptive evidence of some great ultimate design
of God concerning them. And we have seen sufficient evidence of God's
design to restore them to the land given to their fathers ; to purify them,
pour out his Spirit upon them, and make them a holy people ; to give them
pre-eminence over the nations of the world ; and so to '
bless all the nations
of the earth' through them. We come now to the interesting and practically
important inquiry, What are the duties and obligations of the Gentiles to-
ward the chosen people ?
1. And first we may place a loyal acJanoivledgment of their birthright.
If in God's promise to Abraham that he would '
be a God unto him and to
his seed after him,' and that ' in his seed all nations should be blessed,'
God thereby became the husband of Israel, and constituted Israel the hus-
band of all other nations ;
(as has been shown ;) if this arrangement still re-
mains, forasmuch as the gifts and calling of God are without repentance
and we have seen that hitherto he has blessed the Gentiles through the Jews,
—then the Gentiles are bound, now, to regard the Jews as the husband of
the nations. And the duty of the Gentiles toward them is determined, not
by their character and conduct, but by the known arrangements and pur-
poses of God. A spirit of true loyalty to God, says concerning them, ' How-
ever great may be their sin, and however fierce may be the anger of the Lord
against them, Israel is still our husband ; and we will, so far as is consistent
with our allegiance to the moral government of God, love and honor Israel, as
our husband, for God's sake.' From such passages as 1 Pet. 2: 18, where
the apostle enjoins on servants to '
be obedient to their masters, not only to
the good and gentle, but also to the froward,' we are taught that in the mu-
tual relations which subsist among mankind, the conduct of the one is not to
be governed by the wrong doings of the other, but by the appointment of
God. And we see no reason why Peter's address to wives might not prop-
erly apply to the Gentiles : —' Be in subjection to your own husbands ; that
if any obey not the word, they may without the w^ord be won by the conver-
sation of the wives ; while they behold your chaste conversation, coupled with
fear.' On this principle, it appears that the true way for the Gentiles to seek
the conversion of the Jews, is practically to acknowledge the superiority of
their birthright, and to win them, rather by modesty and the arts of love,
than by attempting, as has often been done, to dragoon them into the gospel.
2. Another obligation which the Gentiles owe the Jews, is, gratitude for
the benefits mankind have received through them. We might speak of the
advantages they have conferred on the world by their preservation and im-
provement of the arts of civilization. For when most other nations were sunk
in the darkness of barbarism, the Jews were cultivating the arts of civilized
life. " During the feudal ages," says a writer in the Edinburgh Encyclope-
dia, "the Jews, from their aversion to war, and their love of gain, seem to
have been the most opulent^ as well as the most enlightened portion of the
BIRTHRIGHT OF ISRAEL. 413
laity. They were the only bankers of the period. It is supposed that they
invented bills of exchange." The celebrated author of 'Ivanhoe' says, " The
Jews, both male and female, possessed and practised the medical science in
all its branches ; and the monarchs and powerful barons of the time frequently
committed themselves to the charge of some experienced sage among this
despised people, when wounded or hi sickness. The aid of the Jewish phy-
sicians was not the less eagerly sought after, though a general belief prevailed
among the Christians, that the Jewish Rabbins were deeply acquainted with
the occult sciences, and particularly with the cabalistic art, wliich had its
name and origin in the studies of the sages of Israel."
But not to insist on any advantages of this kind, we will speak of higher
benefits. From the Jews we have received the Bible. Not only the Old
Testament, but also the New, was written by Jews. Had we received only
the Old Testament, we might justly regard it as a highly valuable acquisition ;
forasmuch as its doctrines and its history, which give us so much knowledge
of the character and will of the true God, and of his dealings with mankind,
have doubtless done more to advance the best interests of the human race,
than aU the ethical systems of the wisest heathen philosophers. But when,
above all, we consider that we have received the gift of Jesus Christ, and
the gospel, through the Jews, we shall, besides gratitude to God as the pri-
mary giver, feel still more deeply what respect and affection we owe to the
Jews as the medium through which salvation has been sent to the world.
The Gentiles, as formerly mentioned, were only branches of the primitive
church ; the Jews were its root and stock ; and it should be taken into the
account that the Jews were the only nation at that time, in which the begin-
ning of a church could be made. Nearly all the moral and spiritual material
in the world, was at that time in the Jewish church. The Bible, with all its
influences was among them ; and they alone were prepared for the reception
of Christ, by the promises, and by the consequent expectation of him. Had
Christ commenced his ministry in any other nation, it is probable that he
would have found but very few followers. God, who does nothing in vain,
had been disciplining that nation for thousands of years ; and more especially,
immediately previous to the appearance of Christ, John the Baptist was sent
for the special object of preparing a highway for the coming of God. Hence
Christ said truly that '
salvation is of the Jews."* Paul also declared that
' the Gentiles were their debtors, and were made partakers of their spiritual
things.' Rom. 15: 26.
THE AGENCY OP THE JEWS IN THE CONVERSION OF THE WORLD.
It must not be inferred from what we have said, that we subscribe to the
theory of those who think that the conversion of the Jews is the first thing to
be attended to in order to the estabhshment of the kingdom of God in the
world. As it is an important part of our object in this discussion of the re-
lations of the Jews to God and the world, to lead believers to comprehensive
views of God's plan of operations, and bring their minds to the position ne-
cessary to their co-operation with him, we will present, in conclusion, a sketch
of the order in which we believe the gospel wHl go forth to the nations.
414 BIRTHRIGHT OP ISRAEL.
Paul, speaking to the Gentiles, says—'As ye in times past have not believ-
ed God, yet have now obtained mercy through their [the Jews'] unbelief;
even so have they also now not believed, that through your mercy they also
may obtain mercy."* Rom. 11: 30, 31. Now it is evident that the Jews
have not yet obtained the mercy here promised, and of course that a portion
of the Gentiles are yet to be employed in the work of conveying it to them.
Paul even says, ' that blindness in part is happened to Israel, until the full-
7iess of the Grentiles be come in."* Rom. 11: 25. We do not conceive that the
' fullness of the Gentiles,' here spoken of, embraces the whole of the field
which we refer to when we speak of '
the conversion of the w^orld ;'
for we
admit the limiting force of those prophecies which declare that 'darkness shall
cover the earth' when the glory of the Lord shall rise upon Zion, and of oth-
ers which assign the work of the final conversion of the heathen especially to
the Jews. But we do understand Paul as teaching, that the most important
part of the Gentile church is to be gathered into Christ, before the conversion
of the Jewish nation.
This agrees with the anticipations which naturally result from a survey of
the actual state of the nations at this time. The gospel, (by which we mean
not the system of legality which usually bears that name, but the primitive
gospel of salvation from sin by the resurrection of Christ,) requires for its
success, a degree of preparation on the part of those to whom it comes. God
did not bring his Son into the world till he had trained a nation, by a long
course of moral discipline, to receive him. And as soon as the small stock
of material, which the legal education of the Jews and the civilization of the
Greeks and Romans had made ready, was used up, the work of the gospel
ceased, and a second dispensation of law took its place. The first resurrec-
tion, at the destruction of Jerusalem, was the closing scene of the first dispen-
sation of the gospel. As we approach the second resurrection'—the closing
scene of the second dispensation of the gospel,—we may anticipate the order
in which the nations will be brought into -Christ, by observing their compara-
tive advancement in legal morality and civilization—the prerequisites of the
final work of grace. That part of the world which presents to the fire of the
gospel the most combustible material will be kindled first ; and the flame will
pass from that to other parts, in the order of their susceptibihty. Now it is
evident to us, that as the Jews were in the highest state of preparation for the
gospel at the time of its first dispensation, so di portion of the Gentiles are now
in the most advanced condition of susceptibility. The United States, Eng-
land, Germany, and probably some other of the European nations, are clearly
in advance of the Jews in morality and civiHzation ;-—and even if this were
doubtful, the single circumstance that these nations receive the whole of the
Bible, while the Jews reject the New Testament, would be a sufficient index
of the superior preparation of the former for the second manifestation of the
primitive gospel. The Jews probably stand next to these leading Gentile
nations, because they acknowledge a large portion of the oracles of God. The
Mohammedans occupy the intermediate position between them and Paganism,
as they believe in one God, and receive more or less of the Old Testament.
Last on the scale of susceptibility, stands the whole of the heathen world.
BIRTHRIGHT OF ISRAEL. 415
«
^Ihe conclusion from this survey is, that the best portion of Gentile Christen-
dom will receive the gospel first ; that the Jews will then be brought in,
and finally, that they will gather the great harvest of the Mohammedan and
heathen world.
This view assigns a sufficient precedence to the Jews ; for Mohammedan-
ism and Paganism embrace at this day far the largest portion of the human
race ; and if the sun of righteousness shall rise upon the nations in the order
we have indicated, it will be true in a general sense that ' darkness shall
cover the earth, and thick darkness the people,' when the glory of the Lord
shall reach the chosen nation. And at the same time it will be true that the
JcAvs obtain the second ministration of mercy through the Gentiles, as the
Gentiles obtained the first through the Jews : and that the substantial part
of the Gentile church will be brought in, before the second ingathering of
Israel. Thus the predictions of Isaiah and Paul will be reconciled.
The church gathered at the first resurrection, was twofold in its constitu-
tion. Its first and strongest department was a body of Jews, viz. Christ, the
apostles and the churches of Judea, together with the Old Testament saints.
Its second department consisted of Gentiles, taken principally from the terri-
tories of Greek and Roman civilization. This order of formation leaves the
Gentile end of that church (so to speak) now nearest to the world. If the
process of accretion is to begin again where it ended, and if the attraction
between heaven and earth is to be favored by bringing like to meet hke, we
should naturally anticipate that the beginning of the church of the second
resurrection would be a Gentile body. Accordingly a portion of the Gentiles,
as we have seen, are best prepared to be the point of contact for the gospel.
When a firm union shall have been estabHshed between the invisible and
the visible church by joining the Gentile end of the former to the Gentile be-
ginning of the latter, the extension of the gospel from Christendom to the
Jews, and from the Jews to the Mohammedan and Pagan world, will natu-
rally follow ; as it is evident from observation as well as from prophecy that
God has now brought or is fast bringing the world, as a whole, to a state suf-
ficiently combustible for the final conflagration ; and that the gospel fire when
once kindled the second time, will not go out for want of prepared fuel, as at
the first, but will embrace the globe, and terminate in the second and univer-
sal resurrection.
The completed church, then, will consist of five distinct departments, viz :
1, the Jewish part of the primitive church ; 2, the Gentile part of the primi-
tive church ; 3, the Gentiles now farthest advanced in preparation for the
gospel, 1. e. the best part of Christendom ; 4, the mass of the Jewish nation ;
5, the mass of Mohammedans and Pagans, i. e. the greater part of the exist-
ing world. The reader may facilitate his conception of this complex church,
by representing it to himself under the figure of a tree, with its roots radia-
ting downward and its branches upward. Let a line be drawn across the
trunk a little above the roots. The space below this line may represent the
Jewish portion of the primitive church. A second line a short distance above
the first, may indicate the boundary of the Gentile portion of the primitive
church. A third line may be drawn, higher still, to mark the second Gentile
416 THE SABBATH.
department, now to be added. Just below the radiation of the branches, a
fourth hne may cut oif a space to represent the second Jewish department
and then the whole top of the tree may stand for the Mohammedan and Pa-
gan world. Thus the two Gentile departments will occupy the middle part
of the trunk, and the two Jewish departments its extremities ; a Jewish root
takes hold on God, and a Jewish portion of the trunk takes hold on the mass
of nations.
^59. THE SABBATH.
The true practical maxim to be observed by believers, w^hen their views
differ in relation to the obligation of the fourth commandment, is the injunc-
tion of Paul, '
Let every man be fully persuaded in his own mind.' If ' one
man esteems one day above another, and another man esteems every day
alike,' let neither judge the other, and let neither suffer himself to be judged.
(See Rom. 14: 5, 6, & Col. 2: 6.) We are willing to abide by this princi-
ple, and live in peace with those who observe the sabbath, giving them no
just cause of offense either by word or deed. But the peace must be recip-
rocal. They must not judge us, and especially they must not accuse us, as
many legalists have done, of '
trampling on the known commands of God.'
When they do this, we find ourselves obhged to take the position prescribed
by Luther y
—'
Keep the sabbath holy' (says he) ' for its use sake, both to
body and soul ! But if any where the day is made holy for the mere day's
sake^f any where any one sets up its observance on the Jewish foundation^
then I order you to work on it, to ride on it; to dance on it, to feast on it, to
do any thing that shall reprove this encroachment on the Christian spirit of
liberty.' (See Coleridge's Table Talk.) When the adherents of the sab-
bath, not content with a full persuasion of their own minds, take upon them
to dictate and accuse, they must not complain if we give our own reasons for
non-observance, instead of lying quiet under their refutation of the reasons
which they choose to put into our mouths. On this ground, we shall take
the liberty to go into an investigation of the point, whether the sabbath is
really of universal obligation.
The New Testament no where enjoins the observance of the sabbath. Its
spirit, as well as its specific instructions, so far as they touch the subject, are
decidedly adverse to such observances. The only strong hold, therefore, of
Sabbatarians, is the Old Testament ; and especially the decalogue. Here they
take their stand.
" The ten commandments, (say they,) and the command to keep the sab-
bath among the rest, are laws of universal and perpetual obligation."
" But (we reply) the fourth commandment directs us to keep Saturday/.
Bo you keep that day ?"
" No : but we keep one day in seven. The spirit of the commandment
THE SABBATH. 417
(wKich is all that Is essential) requires us to set apart one seventh part of
time; and we do this in keeping Sunday as well as we should if we kept Sat-
urday.'*
" Very well ;
you admit then that the letter of the commandment is not
now binding, and that the Spirit of it only requires us to keep one seventh
part of time. It follows of course, that Sunday is not specially sacred, and
that a man may fulfil the law as well by keeping Wednesday,, or any other
day of the week that may suit his convenience, as by the usual observance.
And further, it follows that if a man chooses to set apart from worldly busi-
ness one seventh part of every day instead of one day in seven, he may obey
the spirit of the command in that way, as truly as you do in in observing the
first, instead of the seventh day of the week. If you take the liberty to de-
part from the letter at all, you are obliged to acknowledge that the law, con-
sidered as a specific enactment, relating to external acts, is abrogated ; and
as the spirit of its demands, which only is in force, may be satisfied in sev-
eral different ways besides your own, you obviously exceed your warrant, in
dictating to others what day they shall keep, or in forbidding them to '
esteem
every day alike,' provided they sanctify a seventh part of time."
The spirit of the fourth commandment, abstracted from all specific modes,
may be expressed thus :
'
Thou shalt abstain from bodily labor so far as physi-
cal and spiritual health requires.' This is a rule of universal and
perpetual obligation. This is, and forever will be, the rule of heaven.
Angels and saints made perfect, observe it. We constantly honor this rule
both by precept and example, as one of pre-eminent importance ; and we are
in favor of extending, rather than curtailing its present practical application.
Instead of diminishing the amount of time usually set apart for mental and
religious cultivation, we would greatly increase it. We believe that not merely
one day in seven, but as much at least as one halp of eveey day, ought
to be devoted, by those who have a soul, as well as a body, to intellectual
and spiritual pursuits. We believe that a jubilee is coming, in which this
Order of things will be found feasible, and will be adopted. We believe that
without it, the race of man will never emerge from animalism. But at the
same time we believe that the particular embodiment of the abstract rule
above stated, in the observance of a particular day of the week, which was
enjoined on the Jews, is at this day altogether adverse to the advance ofman
into new and true arrangements, and that the divine obligation of it passed
away with the Jewish dispensation.
We have seen that the transfer of the sabbath from the seventh to the first
day of the week, necessarily implies, unless that transfer was an unwarranted
act of the Christian church, that the letter of the fourth commandment is ab-
rogated ; and if the letter is abrogated, the commandment itself, which con-
sists of letters, is abrogated. Yet it is absolutely necessary that Sabbatarians
should maintain that it is not abrogated. The whole strength of their cause
lies in the assumption that the fourth commandment is a part of that eternal
' moral law' which did not share in the wreck of the Jewish dispensation. It
is manifestly true that God attached a special importance to the ten command-
ments. This was evinced by the fact that he separated them from the body
62
4lB 5:he sabbath.
of the Jewish code, and engraved them twice over on tables of stone. On
the foundation of this truth, theologians have raised a belief—or rather a
jpopular impression which answers all the purposes of a beliefs—that the dec-
alogue is a sacred, unchangeable formula of the divine will, altogether separate
itom and independent of the temporary institutions with which it was surroun-
ded^ and equally pertinent and essential to the Christian as to the Jewish
dispensation. ^
This impression is the strong fortress of the sabbath cause
and, notwithstanding the serious breach which the transfer from Saturday to
Sunday has made in its walls, it is still coiisidered, on the whole, quite de-
fensible. This fortress we propose now to reconnoitre.
That the position we take in regard to the abrogation of the decalogue,
inay be clearly understood at the outset, we will introduce it by an illustration*
Suppose a father, for the better management of his small children, selects
out from the multitude of rules and instructions which he daily gives them,
ten of the most essential, has them printed in large letters, and framed, and
hangs them up in the children's room. We may presume this family deca-
logue would be something like the following
1. You must say your prayers, night and morning.
2. You must read a chapter in the Bible every day.
3. You must not say naughty words.
4. You must not stay out in the street after nine o'clock at night.
5. You must always love, obey, and cleave to your father and mother*
6. You must not strike each other.
7* You must not play in the dirt, or soil and tear your clothes*
8. You must not take v/hat does not belong to you.
9. You must not tell wTong stories.
10* You must go regularly to school at the appointed hour*
Every one sees that such a formula as this, though exceedingly important
for children eight or ten years old, and as such worthy to be printed, tramed^
and hung up conspicuously before them, cannot claim to be, as to the letter
of it, a perpetual expression of the father's will, appropriate to the adult con-
dition of his family. Some of its precepts are indeed perpetually obhgatory
and appropriate, such as the eighth and ninth. The old as well as the young
are bound not to steal and lie. But others, though obligatory at all times,
are altogether unnecessary, and of course inappropriate, to adults ; such as
the seventh. Persons of mature age are in no danger of playing in the dirt*
Others are neither obligatory or appropriate, except in the case of small chi^
dren, such as the fourth and tenth. Adults are not bound to be at home at
a particular hour in the evening, or to go to school. Others still, though
imperatively binding at a certain age, are countermanded by precepts adapted
to subsequent life ; such as the fifth. CJdldren should cleave to their pa-
tents, but ' a man shall leave father and mother and cleave unto his wife.'
The spirit of the whole may be expressed in the injunction '
Behave dutifully
and wisely toward God and man, and with reference to body and soul.' This
l"ule is appropriate to all ages, and equally obligatory on all. But the par-
ticular form in which this rule is embodied in the above decalogue, is appro-
priate and obligatory only during childhood.
Y
THE SABBATH. 419
Now we believe it can be shown that the Jewish decalogue is a formula of
the divine will, constructed on principles similar to those which have been
exhibited in the foregoing illustration ; that it was framed with special refers
ence to the condition of the Jews, at the time it was given ; that in several
particulars it is inappropriate to a more advanced condition, such as that of
Christian believers ; and that, while its spirit remains in force, its authority
as a formal enactment rested on the same basis with the rest of the Jewish
code, and was abohshed by the advent of Christianity. That this is a correct
view of the decalogue, appears from the following considerations :
1, Two of the ten commandments, viz., the first and second, which forbid
literal idolatry, were obviously enacted with special reference to the prevailing
vice of the Jews, and of the nations around them, at the time the law was
given. The strange fatuity with which the chosen people plunged again and
again into that vice till fifter the Babylonish captivity, shows how important
those commandments were at that time. God wisely placed them in front
of the decalogue. But, at the present time, so far as the Jews and a great
part of Christendom are concerned, they are as unnecessary and inappropri*
ate as would be the injunction of a father to his adult children not to play in
the dirt. If God were to give a written law now to the Jews, instead of
forbidding image worship as the leading vice, he would undoubtedly aim his
first commandments against the love of money. Indeed, the reader will find
by examining the New Testament, that Christ and his apostles never pointed
their artillery against the fallen bulwarks of literal idolatry, but against cov-
etousness, which had taken its place. The sermon on the mount never alludes
to image worship; but it bears down on mammonism, in a way that indicates
Christ's view of the pre-eminence of that vice. (See Matt. 6: 19-—34 \
also Eph. 5: 5, and Col. 3: 5.) /
2. The fifth commandment—that which requires reverence toward parents
—-though it justly occupies a high place in the morality appropriate to a
worldly state, and was one of the most essential elements of that preparatory
civilization which God sought to develope in the Jewish nation, is nevertheless
essentially modified, and even in a certain sense countermanded by the pre^
cepts of the gospel. In the place of that commandment, the words of Christ
are, '
Except a man hate and forsake father and mother . , . he cannot be
my disciple ;' ' Call no man father on earth.' In accordance with these pre^- :
cepts, he asserted his own independence of his earthly parents, when he was
"^
twelve years old ;
(Luke 2: 42-—50 ;) he publicly refused to recognize ag
his mother and brethren any but the children of God ;
(Matt. 12: 47—50;)
and he constantly addressed Mary by the title, *
Woman^—and not as his
mother. John 2: 4. 19: 26. The principle of the case is plain. The fifth
commandment directs men how to behave as children of the flesh, and would
be of universal and perpetual obligation if men were never called to a spirit-
ual state. But Christ came to introduce a second birth, and transfer men
from a carnal to a spiritual state and parentage. For this purpose it was
absolutely necessary that he should countermand the letter of the fifth com*
mandment. It is no objection to this view, that Paul exhorted the children
of believers to obey their parents. Eph. 6: 1—3. Col, 3: 20, He wieeJy
420 THE SABBATH.
combined tlie morality of the law with that of the gospel, because his instruc-
tions on this point were addressed to those who, it might be presumed, were
too young to be treated as subjects of the spiritual dispensation. The promise
of reward, attached to the fifth commandment, is of a temporal nature, and
indicates the temporal nature of the precept. 'Honor thy father and thy moth-
er, [not that you may secure the rewards of eternity, but] tliat thy days may
he long in the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee.' To those who seek
the prize of the second birth, the precept is, '
Call no man father on earth.'
3. We have the explicit testimony of Jesus himself in respect to two of the
ten commandments, that the letter of them is not adapted to the Christian
dispensation. In immediate connection with the saying—' Think not that I
am come to destroy the law and the prophets'—which is so often appealed to
by legalists, Christ actually repealed the formula of the sixth and seventh
commandments, and substituted other words in their places. '
Ye have heard
that it was said by them of old time, Thou shalt not kill ; and whosoever shall
kill shall be in danger of the judgment. But I say to you. That whosoever
is angry with his brother without a cause, shall be in danger of the judgment
and whosoever shall say to his brother, Raca, shall be in danger of the coun-
cil : but whosoever shall say, Thou fool, shall be in danger of hell-fire.' Matt.
5: 21, 22. In the same manner he proceeds shortly after to aboHsh the form
and re-embody the spirit of the commandment, '
Thou shalt not commit adul-
tery.' Matt. 5: 27, 28. It cannot be denied that there was an actual repeal
of the old form in these cases ; for Christ uses the same languf'ge in both, as
that by which he immediately afterward repeals the rule, '
An eye for an
eye, and a tooth for a tooth.' Matt. 5: 38, 39. When he says in relation to
this bloody law,— 'Ye have heard that it hath been said, &c., but I say to
you,' &c.,—every one understands that he intends by this form of speech to
abohsh the old precept, and give a new one. It is equally clear that by the
same form of speech he repealed the sixth and seventh commandments. By
the two examples which he has thus furnished us, we may understand what
he means when he says
—' I am not come to destroy [the law,] but to fulfil.'
He certainly does not mean that he has not come to destroy the old form of
the ten commandments, for this is what he immediately proceeds to do. He
evidently does mean that he has not come to destroy the spirit of the law,
but to perfect its development, by embodying it in a new and perfect form.
The immense enlargement of scope which he gives to the spirit of the sixth
and seventh commandments, leads to the presumption that if he had expressly
revised the fourth, he would have re-constructed it thus :
'
Ye have heard
that it was said by them of old time, Remember the seventh day to keep it
holy. But I say to you, Keep holy seven days in the week, and twenty-four
hours in the day.'
4. Besides the changes which, we have seen, are required in the precep-
tive forms of some at least of the ten commandments, it can be shown that
the Christian dispensation makes a still greater change in respect to the legal
nature of the whole of them. Christianity is a dispensation, not of law, but
of grace and truth. Retaining and greatly enlarging the intrinsic truths of
the Mosaic law, it proposes to enforce obedience to those truths, by spiritual
THE SABBATH. 421
influences, instead of legal sanctions. In this sense, if in no other, it may
safely be said that the ten commandments are abolished, so far as Christian
believers are concerned. Five of the most important chapters of the epistle
to the Romans, (which is an epitome of Paul's theology,) are devoted to an
elaborate proof that the law, as a means of moral influence, prevents instead
of promoting, both justification and sanctification ; and that whoever is in the
way of salvation is not under the law. The apostle leaves no room to doubt
that he refers in this demonstration, especially to the ten commandments,
since he cites the tenth commandment—'Thou shalt not covet' —as the very law
which, in his own experience, he found to be a savor of death instead of life.
Kom. 7: 7. In perfect accordance with this fundamental principle, he calls
the law '
written and engraven in stones,' (which certainly is none other than
the ten commandments,) '
the ministration of death ^^
Hhe ministration of
condemnation^'' '
the letter that Jdlleth/ and announces in plain terms that
this law is 'done away^^—is 'abolished'' by the new covenant. 2Cor. 8: 6—13.
What shall we say now of the time-honored dogma that the ten command-
ments are unrepealable, eternal expressions of the divine will ? Verily that
they who teach such things, 'know not what they say, nor whereof they afiirm.'
It is as clear as the sunbeams of God's truth can make it, that the letter of
the decalogue was part and parcel of the temporary Mosaic law^ : that it was
constructed with special reference to the childhood of the Jewish nation
that it was engraved on stones, (as parents sometimes print and frame special
rules of conduct for their children,) to signify, not its perpetual obligation,
but il:s specjal importance to that people ; that parts of it were expressly re-
pealed by Jesus Christ; and that Paul pronounced the whole of it abolished
by the dispensation of the spirit.
What then becomes of the argument for the sabbath, founded on the as-
sumed immutability of the decalogue, w^hich is the strong bulwark, the last
refuge of Sabbatarians ? Verily '
it is ready to vanish away.' The com-
mandment to observe the seventh day, has less intrinsic claim than any other
of the ten, to be regarded as a part of the eternal ' moral law.' The author-
ity of such precepts as—' Thou shalt not steal,'
—' Thou shalt not bear false
witness,' &c., may be supposed to extend even to heaven. But nobody im-
agines that the angels and saints made perfect, observe one day in the week
as a special holy day. When Christ repeated to the young man the essential
parts of the decalogue, he did not mention the sabbath precept. Matt. 19:
18. Moreover in the second edition of the decalogue, pubhshed in Deuter-
onomy 5: 7—21, the fourth commandment has a special appendage, which
plainly proves it to be merely a Jewish institution. After reciting the pre-
cept as first delivered, the record proceeds thus—' Remember that thou wast
a servant in the land of Egypt, and that the Lord thy God brought thee out
thence, through a mighty hand, and by a stretched-out arm : therefore the -
Lord thy God commanded thee to keep the sabbath day.'' Deut. 5: 15. Thus
the commandment itself bears decisive marks of its limited and national char-
acter. This, added to the fact that it stands in a decalogue which as a whole
has been show^n to be mutable and repealable, makes an accumulation of evi-
dence of its abrogation, which cannot but satisfy, ere long, all but those who 9^
are selfishly interested in maintaining its perpetual authority.
y-
422 THE SABBATH.
But we have a still surer ' word of prophecy.' To set the matter com-
pletely at rest, we are fortunately able to produce an
APOSTOLIC DECISION OF THE SABBATH QUESTION.
In the 15th chapter of Acts we are informed that the question whether
the external institutions of the Jews are to be regarded as binding on the
Gentiles, was distinctly raised in the primitive church, and decided, in full
council, after solemn debate by the apostles. Their decision is contained in
the following letter
" The apostles and elders, and brethren, send greeting unto the brethren
which are of the Gentiles in Antioch, and Syria, and CiUcia : Forasmuch as
we have heard that certain which went out from us have troubled you with
words, subverting your souls, saying, Ye must be circumcised, and keep the
Jaw : to whom we gave no such commandment : it seemed good unto us, being
assembled with one accord, to send chosen men unto you, with our beloved
Barnabas and Paul, men that have hazarded their lives for the name of our Lord
Jesus Christ. We have sent therefore Judas and Silas, who shall also tell you
the same things by mouth. For it seemed good to the Holy Ghost and to us, to
lay upon you no greater burthen than these necessary things ; that ye abstain
from meats offered to idols, and from blood, and from things strangled, and from
fornication : from which if ye keep yourselves, ye shall do well. Fare ye well."
Acts 15: 23—29.
As we are Gentiles, we may fairly consider this letter as addressed to us
and it comes to us with the authority, not only of the apostles and eldefs at
Jerusalem, but of the Holy Ghost. That it includes in its scope* the sabbat-
ical institution, is evident from the fact that it was addressed to persons who
had not been educated in the observance of the sabbath, and to whom of
course the express exception of that institution (if the apostles had designed
that it should be excepted from the decree of abrogation) would have been
quite as necessary, as the exceptions which they actually did make in rela-
tion to eating polluted things, and fornication. Gentile believers, to whom
the sabbath was at that time an ordinance as new and arbitrary as that of
circumcision, could not but understand—and the apostles of course designed
they should understand—that it was a part of that '
law' from which the
above letter declared them exempt. As Gentiles, then, we are formally
discharged, by the highest authority, human and divine, from the obligation
to keep the sabbath ; and we may well throw back upon modern Sabbatarians
the charge of '
trampling on divine commands.* In the face of a solemn
manifesto of God and his servants, these Judaizers '
trouble men with words,
suhverting their souls, saying. Ye must [sabbatize,] and keep the law : to
whom [the apostles and the Holy Ghost] gave no such commandment.'
§60. BAPTISM.
Paul speaks of the *
doctrine of baptisms' (Ileb. 6: 2) as among the ele-
mentary instructions of the gospel—a '
first principle,' like repentance, faith,
&c., which even babes in Christ might be supposed to understand. Surely
then, we may expect, before examination, to find that the word of God fur-
nishes to the sincere inquirer, evidence by w^hich he may easily arrive at sat-
isfactory and certain conclusions concerning a subject which thus stands at
the entrance of the Christian's pathway. We propose therefore, in this arti-
cle, to step aside from the numberless controversies on this subject, which
have long rent the visible church—controversies which obviously prove, that
one or both of the parties engaged in them, have been ignorant of the fii^st
principles of the doctrine of Christ—and examine in simplicity for ourselves,
and for the assistance of our readers, the record of God. We shall conduct
this examination, by quoting the most important passages in the New Testa-
ment, relating to baptism, and adding such remarks as they suggest.
Matt. 3: 10, 11. ^I [John the Baptist] indeed baptize you with water; but
he that cometh after me, is mightier than I, whose shoes I am not worthy
to bear; he [Christ] shall baptize you with the ^oZ?/ (r/ios^ and with fire.'
In each of the other Evangelists, this declaration of John is recorded ;
(Markl: 8, Luke 3: 16, John 1: 26 ;) and Christ himself repeated it just
before his ascension. ' John truly baptized with water, but ye shall be bap-
tized with the JSol^ Ghost, not many days hence.' Here then, we have in
the beginning of each of the first five books of the New Testament, an expli-
cit statement of '
the doctrine of baptisms ;' the very doctrine, doubtless, to
which Paul alluded, in using the plural of the word baptism. The doctrine
manifestly is, that water baptism belonged to the ministry of John, and the
baptism of the Holy Crhost to that of Christ. These primary statements are
BO simple and clear, that we cannot wonder that Paul regarded ' the doctrine
of baptisms,' as one of the first principles of the instructions of the gospel
and if on further examination, we find nothing inconsistent with the view they
present, we shall have no difficulty in forming our judgment on the subject.
It is plain, that all occasion for dispute about the mode of water baptis7n is
removed, unless indeed we consider John the Baptist our spiritual head, in-
stead of Christ. If, in professing to be Christians, we rank ourselves among
the followers of Christ, and not of John, we must regard tvater baptism as an
ordinance belonging to a ptast dispensation; and of course all controversy con-
cerning it as ill-timed foolishness. We are subjects of the dispensation to
which the baptism of the Holy Crhost belongs. We receive the substance, of
which John's baptism was the shadow ; and have no more occasion for dis-
pute about water baptism than about circumcision, or any other ordinance of
Judaism.
Matt. 28: 19. * Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing tliem in
Hie name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Gfhost.^ The in-
tent of this direction evidently accords with the doctrine which John and
i
424 BAPTISM.
Christ had before explicitly and repeatedly stated, as we have seen. These
words of Christ commissioned his disciples to baptize not with water, for that
was John's baptism, but '
in the name [i. e. with the power] of the Father,
Son, and Holy Ghost,' which alone was the baptism of Christ. We must
suppose that Christ perfectly understood the doctrine of baptisms, the diifer-
ence between John's baptism and his own, and used this language with that
distinction in his mind. If he had intended to perpetuate John's baptism,
surely he would have explicitly commissioned his disciples to baptize Avith
water. This he did not do, but on the contrary explicitly commissioned them
to baptize in his own name, of course with Ms baptism, and '
in the name of
the Holy Ghost. The fact that his disciples understood him as directing
them to continue the ministration of baptism by water, which they had before
practised, (John 4: 2,) by no means militates with this view. They did in-
deed understand him in this inferior sense, and proceeded on the day of Pen-
tecost, and afterwards, to administer water baptism. But his meaning in this
case, as in many others, must not be determined by their understanding, but
by his own declarations concerning the same subject in other places. While
he was with them in the flesh, they received most of his instructions in a car-
nal, inferior sense. They knew him not as Lord of that spiritual kingdom,
which * Cometh not with observation ;' they read his character and instruc-
tions, in the ' letter,' not in the '
spirit.' In allusion to this he said to them,
* These things have I spoken to you, being yet present with you ; but the
Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name,
he shall teach you all things, and bri7ig all things to your reTrmmbrance,
whatsoever I have said unto you.^ John 14: 25,26. With this anticipation,
he spoke to them. His personal mstructions are therefore to be construed,
not according to their immediate understanding of them ; but with reference
to that subsequent teaching of the Holy Ghost, of which these instructions
were but a text-book. A notable illustration of these remarks occurs in the
very verse which has occasioned them, '
Go ye and teach all nations.^ In
these words, Christ surely designed to give the disciples an unlimited com-
mission, as also iif Acts 1: 8 ;
yet a long time elapsed before they knew the
extent of their commission. Nearly ten years after the day of Pentecost,
Peter for the first time discovered, by the intervention of a miraculous vis-
ion, manifested both to himself and Cornelius, that God had broken down
the wall of partition between Jews and Gentiles, and that he was at liberty to
*
teach all nations.' We need not wonder then, that they who received the
unlimited commission, ' Go ye and teach all nations,' in a sense which re-
stricted them to the Jewish people, received also the accompanying direction,
^Baptizing them in the name of the Father, of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost,'
in a sense which led them for a season to continue the water baptism of John.
These remarks are equally applicable to the parallel passage in Mark 16:16,
* He that believeth and is baptized, shall be saved.' The obvious meaning
is, ' he that believeth and is baptized,' not with the water baptism of John,
but ' in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost,' the
baptism of Christ, ' shall be saved.'
BAPTISM. 425
John 4: 2. *
Jesus himself baptized not [with water,] but his disciples.'
The fact that Jesus did not baptize with water, and John's special notice of
it in this passage, accord with, and confirm the view we have presented.
Whj did not Jesus baptize, if water baptism is a Christian ordinance ?
He insisted upon being baptized himself, with w^ater, at the commencement
of his ministry, '
that lie might fulfil all righteousness,'^ Being made under
the law, it was necessary that he should be subject to all the ordinances of
the law, and especially to that ordinance which most immediately foretokened
bis own work. But surely he failed to fulfil one very important part of right-
eousness, in neglecting to give his followers an example of the ministration
of water baptism, if he designed that they should perpetuate it as a Christian
ordinance. If a Christian minister should never baptize with water, he might
well defend his conduct by appealing to the example of his Master. Our
next quotation will show, that Jesus Christ did not send his apostles to bap-
tize with water; and therefore his example was consistent with his instructions.
1 Cor. 1: 14—17. 'I thank Crod that Ihaptized none ofyou^ but Crispus
and Gains ; lest any should say that I baptized in my own name. And I
baptized also the household of Stephanas : besides, I know not whether I
baptized any other. For Christ sent me not to baptize^ but to preach the
gospel.' The fact that Paul baptized any with water, is easily explained by
his own words in the same epistle, ICor. 9: 20, &c. : —' Unto the Jews I be-
came as a Jew ; to them that are under the law, as under the law, &c. I
am made all things to all men, that I might by all means save some.' In
accordance with this principle of accommodation which he adopted, he not
only administered water baptism, but circumcision ;
(Acts 16: 3;) and we_
might argue as plausibly for the continuance of circumcision, as of John's
baptism, from the example of Paul. He baptized but few of his converts at
Corinth, and probably as few elsewhere, and thanked God that he baptized
no more. Evidently it was a matter of expediency, not of obhgation with him;
' for' says he, '
Christ sent me, not to baptize, but to preach the gospel ;' in
other words, '
Christ sent me not to baptize with water, but with the Holy
Ghost ;'
for '
the gospel is the power of God unto salvation.' Paul was a
minister of the Spirit of the hving God. 2 Cor. 3: 3, 6. It is plain then,
that a minister of the gosjjel has not only the example of Christ, but of Paul,
his chief apostle, in favor of dispensing with the ministration of water baptism,
as a Christian ordinance.
Acts 2: 38. '
Then said Peter unto them. Repent, and be baptized^QYe-
Tj one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ,' &c. We quote this passge as a
specimen of many similar passages in the Acts of the apostles, exhibiting the
doctrine and practice of the first ministers of Jesus Christ. We need quote
no more, for we concede without reluctance all that can be asked for the ar-
gument in favor of water baptism, derived from the example of Peter and his
associate apostles. Beyond controversy, on the day of Pentecost and after-
wards, they baptized with water, in comphance with what they supposed to
be the last direction of their Master. Yet we shall be permitted by all, save
the worshippers of saints, to question, for reasons already stated, whether
the apostles in this early stage of their ministry, rightly understood the direc-
63
4^0 fiAPtlSM-
tions of their Master. Their doctrine of baptisms was manifestly at variance
^ith the instructions and examples of Christ and Paul, except on the suppo^
sition that they were yet partially, at least, in the dispensation of John the
Baptist. We cannot beheve, in view of the truths which we have previously
discussed, that as mirmters of the gospel of Christy they prescribed and prac-'
tised water baptism. As ministers of the doctrine and baptism of John, their
course was consistent .with the instructions of their Master. Yet their
example plainly furnishes no argument in favor of water baptism, unless
we make John our leader instead of Christ. Many circumstances combine
to induce the belief, that they were thus in the first stages of their ministry,
in a measure the disciples of John. 1. Their preaching and his were nearly
identical. ' John verily baptized with the baptism of repentance^ saying un*
to the people that they should believe on him that should come after him,
that is, on Jesus Christ.' Acts 19: 4* Such also was the preaching of the
apostles, on the day of Pentecost and afterwardsj^—'i^gj^mf and be baptized,'
&c. ' Repent and be converted, that your sins may be blotted out, when the
times of refreshing shall come from the presence of the Lord ; and he shall
send Jesus Christ U7ito you^ kc. Acts 3: 19, 20. Faith in &p>rese7it Savior,
is confessedly the foremost doctrine of the gospel of Christ, the gospel Avhich
Paul preached ; whereas the apostles, like John, preached chiefly repentance^
and pointed the people '
to him that should come after.' 2. As John in his
personal ministry was for a season cotemporary with Christ, so we believe the
dispensation of which John was the head, was for a season cotetoporary with
that of which Christ was the head. The doctrine and baptism of John were
for a season after the day of Pentecost, blended with the preaching of Christ
and the baptism of the Ploly Ghost. But we believe also, that as John said
with reference to Christ, '
He must increase, but I must decrease,' so the
doctrine and baptism of John, after the day of Pentecost, gradually gave
place to the doctrine and baptism of Christ. God seems to have pursued
the same order in this case, as in the entire transition from Judaism to Chris-
tianity, and in every other change of dispensation ; introducing the new dis-
pensation, not by a sudden exchange, but by a gradual process, like the blend«
ing of light and darkness in the dawn of the morning. 3. We are expressly
informed, (Acts 18: 24, 25,) that long after the day of Pentecost, a man
who was ' mighty in the scriptures,' '
fervent in spirit,' and '
instructed in
the way of the Lord^ was yet only a disciple of John. ^A certain Jew,
named ApoUos, born at Alexandria, an eloquent man, and mighty in the
scriptures, came to Ephesus. This man was instructed in the way of the
Lord, and being fervent in the spirit, he spake and taught diligently the
things of the Lord, knowing only the haptism of John." By this circum-
stance we may discover, that the influence of the dispensation of John, was
for a season, to some extent, intermingled with that of the Christian dispensa-
tion. 4. Paul gives us to understand, (Gal. 1 k 2,) that Peter and his as-
sociate apostles, were for a long time after the commencement of their minis-
try, judaizing and contracted in their views of the gospel of Christ. He says,
*Foui'teen years after, [i. e. about twenty years after the day of Pentecost,]
1 went up again to Jerusalem with Barnabas, and took Titus with me also 5
BAPTISM. 427
and I went up by revelation, and communicated unto tJtem, [i. e. tlie apos-
tles and their followers,] that gospel Avhich I preach among the Gentiles, &c.
Of those that seemed to be somewhat, whatever they were, it maketh no mat-
ter to me ; God accepteth no man's person ; for they who seemed to be some-
what, in conference added nothing to me, hut contrariivise^ &c. He after-
wards plainly shows to whom he alludes in these expressions ;' 'James, Ce-
phas, [or Peter,] and John^ were they who 'seemed to be pillars.' After-
Wards he states that he '
withstood Peter to his face,' for his blameworthy
judaizing. We recommend to such as are disposed to worship saints, and
make apostolic practices immutable laws, a careful perusal of this passage in
Paul's writings. It will be found that Paul scrupled not to differ in doctrine
and practice from those who had been ' apostles before him.' Vv^e need not
wonder that he spoke so lightly as we have seen, of that water baptism which
those apostles prescribed and administered in the beginning of their apostleship,
6. If it is objected in answer to Avhat has been said, that the apostles bapti-
zed with water while under the guidanee of the Holy Ghost, yiQ reply, in the
first place, though we should admit that the Holy Ghost did actually direct
them to baptize with water, we might still assert, that no one can truly follow
their example, who baptizes ivithout the special direction of the Holy Ghost,
But we deny that there is any evidence that the Holy Ghost did direct
them to baptize with water. We cannot ascribe all their actions and views
to the influence of the Holy Ghost. For a time they evidently regarded cir-
cumcision as a Christian ordinance. Was this a doctrine of the Holy Ghost ?
They regarded the Jewish nation as alone entitled to the blessings of the gos-
pel. Were they taught this by the Holy Ghost ? Peter so conducted that
Paul withstood him to his face, '
because he was to be blamed.' Did he act
under the guidance of the Holy Ghost ? ^lanifestly the Jewish practices
and views which the apostles had received, not from the Holy Ghost, but
from their previous education, must account for many things in their conduct;
and what portion of Judaism would be more likely to adhere to them in the
beginning of their apostleship, than the baptism of John-—the recent intro-
duction and celebrity of which, seemed doubtless to characterize it as a per-
manent ordinance of the new dispensation ? It is said that Philip baptized
the eunuch (Acts 8:38) under the guidance of the Holy Ghost. The only
evidence in favor of this assertion, is the fact that Philip was directed by the
Holy Ghost to preach Christ to the eunuch. The inference from this is,
that he subsequently baptized him by the direction of the Holy Ghost. Ob-
serve, this is only an inference. It is not said that the Holy Ghost dictated
the baptism. On the contrary, it is said that * the eunuch said. See, here
is water, what doth hinder me to be baptized '/'
The suggestion of water
baptism came from the eunuch, and not from the Holy Ghost. When a pas-
sage shall be found in the record of God directly ascribing the ministration
of water baptism to the direction of the Holy Ghost, we shall be ready to
admit that tliere is some plausibility in the argument for its continuance as a
Christian ordinance ; but while feeble inferences alone, are the foundation of
that argument, we must be permitted to receive the instructions and examples
of Christ and Paul, as paramount to the instructions and examples of thosa
428 BAPTISM.
apostles who, while thej ^
seemed to be pillars,' were yet manifestly, to a
great extent, under the influence of Jewish habits and doctrines.
1 Peter 3: 20, 21. 'Eight souls were saved by water, [i. e. in Noah's
ark ;] the like figure whereunto, even baptism, doth also now save us, {not
the putting aivay of the filth of the flesh, but the answer of a good conscience
towards God,) by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead.' It is evi-
dent from this passage, that Peter's views of baptism were rectified at the
time he wrote his epistles. The baptism of which he here speaks, is express-
ly declared to be, not that which washes away '
the filth of the flesh,' i. e.
water baptism ; but that which purifies the conscience, i. e. the baptism of
the Holy Ghost. By giving heed to this explanation, we shall have no diffi-
culty in discerning the connection which he suggests, between baptism and
the resurrection of Christ. Water baptism can scarcely be strained by any
latitude of fancy, into a type of the resurrection of Christ. John the Baptist,
with whom it originated, evidently designed no such allusion. He administered
it according to the character uniformly ascribed to it in the New Testament,
and in the traditions of the Jews, as an ordinance oiinitiatioji—a rite by which
its subjects were introduced into a new dispensation. As such, it was prop-
erly a type of the baptism of the Holy Ghost, by which believers are intro-
duced into the Christian dispensation. Water baptism stood in the same
relation to the baptism of the Holy Ghost, as that in which John the Baptist
stood to Christ. That we may understand how the baptism of the Holy
Ghost is connected with the resurrection of Christ, it is only necessary that
we bear in mind that believers are thereby baptized into Christ, become
members of his body, and of course pai^:takers of his resurrection. This is
plainly the meaning of Paul in the following passages :
—' Know ye not that
so many of us as were baptized into Jesus Christ, Avere baptized into his
death ? Therefore we are buried with him hy baptism, into death, that like
as Christ was raised up from the dead, by the glory of the Father, even so,
we also should walk in newness of life. For if we have been planted togeth-
er in the likeness of his death, we shall he also in the likeness of his resur-
rection.'' Rom. 6: 3—5. •
Ye are complete in him, &c., buried with him in
baptism, wherein also ye are risen with him, through the faith of the opera-
tion of God, who hath raised him from the dead.' Col. 2: 10—12. Paul
plainly defines the baptism, of which he thus speaks, in the following passages:
^As the body is one, and hath many members, and all the members of that
one body, being many, are one body, so also is Christ. For by one Spi7it
are we all bap)tized into one body.' 1 Cor. 12: 12, 13. '
For as many of us
as have been baptized into Christ, ha,YQpiit on Christ."* Gal. 3: 27. Believ-
ers becoming one with Christ by the baptism of the Holy Ghost, while they
remain in the flesh, have fellowship with his death ; inasmuch as his incarna-
tion was in the largest sense his death ; and at the same time they have fel-
lowship with his resurrection, inasmuch as their head, whose spirit is theirs,
has overcome death. ' He was put to death in the flesh, but quickened by
the Spirit.' 1 Pet. 3: 18. The connection of baptism with the resurrection
of Christ, may be imperfectly illustrated by the following case. In working
subterranean mines, it is often necessary to remove water that flows into them,
BAPTISM. 429
by means of an engine which alternately raises and lowers large buckets
through the shaft which constitutes the entrance of the mine. Such excava-
tions are also oftentimes liable to explosions, by reason of the inflammable
gases which infest them. Suppose that a workman in such a mine, is in-
formed by the appearance of his lamp that an explosion is at hand. At the
same moment the water-bucket is just about to ascend. Rushing from a fiery
and dreadful death, he plunges into the ascending bucket, and is safely
raised to the upper world. He is hajJttzed into a resurrection. The primi-
tive church was awaiting the explosion of the fiery vengeance of God, in the
judgment of the prince of this world. Christ came in the flesh, ' descending
into the lower parts of the earth, and ascending above all heavens.' He
thus became the shaft of communication betAveen the caverns of sin and the
heavenly world. '•lamthetvay.^ John 14: 6. His resurrection also became
the power by which believers were exalted into heavenly places. '
I am the
resurrection.'^ John 11: 35. His descent into the darkness of this world, was
his death. Hence beUevers, plunging into his blood, were baptized into his
death ; and having fellowship with him in his victory over death, were bap-
tized into his resurrection ; and when the wrath of God burst upon the man
of sin, were found safely reposing with him in the bosom of the Father.
Peter, in the passage which has suggested these remarks, represents the
salvation of Noah and his family in the ark, as a type of the salvation of
the primitive church, by baptism into the resurrection of Christ. The flood
of water in the type, is a storm of judgment-fire in the antitype. The ark
is Christ. The entrance of the ark is '
baptism into Christ.' As the flood
came upon the ark, and it rose above the waters, safely bearing its inmates,
till the dry land reappeared, so Christ became a refuge for believers in the
midst of the fiery vengeance of God, and by the power of his resurrection,
bearing them above the burning billows that rolled over those who, in the day
of judgment, were not found in him, gave them a resting place in the king-
dom of his glory. With these views, we perceive that Peter very properly
represented baptism as a saving ordinance. 'The like figure whereunto, even
baptism, doth now save us.' Without baptism into Christ, by the Holy Ghost,
none can be saved.
Eph. 4: 4, 5. '
There is one body and one Spirit, even as ye are called in
one hope of your calling : one Lord, one faith, one baptism.^ If water bap-
tism was in Paul's view a Christian ordinance, he has not spoken in this pas-
sage according to the form of sound doctrine : for he says in 1 Cor. 12: 13,
'Bi/ one Spirit are we all baptized into one body ;' showing that the baptism
of the Holy Ghost was regarded by him as 07ie baptism, of universal neces-
sity ; and if water baptism was in his view equally necessary, he should
have said,
—' one Lord, one faith, two baptisms.' Observe further, in the
two passages we have quoted, he was manifestly treating of the same subject,
viz., the unity of the church. In one he speaks expressly of the baptism
of the Holy Ghost, as pertaining universally to the church : in the
other he declares that but one baptism pertains to the church. By thus
comparing the two passages, we cannot avoid the inference that he regarded
the baptism of the Holy Ghost as the only baptism pertaining to the cluux-h.
430 BAPTISM.
This view alone accords with his own declaration and practice, and those of
Christ, as we have before seen. As he states that only one baptism belongs
to Christianity, in determining his meaning, we have only to choose between
John's baptism and Christ's. One must be rejected. We know which Christ
rejected :
'
Jesus baptized not' [with water.] John 4: 2. We know which
Paul himself rejected :
' Christ sent me not to baptize' [with water.] 1 Cor.
1: 17. The conclusion is unavoidable, that Paul's '
doctrine of baptisms,' a
doctrine which he regarded as one of the elementary instructions of the gos-
pel, rejected water baptism, and retained only the baptism of the Holy Ghost,
as a necessary appurtenance to Christianity.
Thus we have noted or alluded to all the passages of the New Testament
which have seemed to us to have any bearing on the '
doctrine of baptisms.'
In conclusion, we may balance the evidence we have before us, thus
Evidence in favor of the baptism of the lIolyGliost^ as alone belonging to
Christianity : —1, the testimony of John as recorded by all the evangelists ;
2, the testimony of Christ ;
(Acts 1: 5;) 3, the commission which Christ gave
his disciples ; 4, Christ's example; 5, the testimony of Paul ; 6, the example
of Paul ; 7, the testimony of Peter in his epistle.
Evidence infavor of water baptism —The example of Peter and his asso-
ciate apostles in the beginning of their ministry,—subtracting the evidence
that they were at that time partially the disciples of John the Baptist.
With such a balance before us, we cannot but be astonished that any should
be found in this day, clinging to the baptism of John ; and our astonishment
is increased by the fact, that the multitudes who do thus cling to the baptism
of John, are generally more earnestly at war with each other respecting the
mode of ' putting away the filth of the flesh,' than with the devil in behalf of
that gospel baptism, which gives '
the answer of a good conscience tow^ard
God.' We doubt not that immersion was the primitive mode of water bap-
tism. But we still say, that a single immersion in water is no more Christian
baptism, than a single sprinkling of water. Even as shadows of the baptism
of the Holy Ghost, one is no better than the other ; for the baptism of the
HolyGhost is Called 'the blood of sprinUing,^ (Heb. 12: 24) and was typified
by the sprinkling of the blood of the sacrifices under the law. It is also most
frequently represented as an effusion. Acts 2: 17, &c. The sacrament of
the Lord's supper shadows forth the reception of the Holy Ghost, by the fig-
tire of 'drinking.'* (See also John 7: 37—39.) The truth is, the operation
by which believers receive the Holy Ghost is properly represented by any or
all of these modes combined. It makes little difference whether a spunge is
dipped or sprinkled—whether water is poured on it or overflows it. If it is
filled with water, we care little whether it was filled by an operation which
is called ' immersion,' or ' effusion,' or 'sprinkling,' or '
drinking.' He that
receives Christ by faith, is baptized with the Holy Ghost, is sprinkled with
the blood of Jesus, the Spirit is 'poured out'* upon him, and he is '
made to
drink into that one Spirit.' We confess however, the first figure suits our
taste better than any other. We love to think of Christian baptism, as AN
EVERLASTING IMMERSION IN THE BLOOD OP ChRIST.
§61. MARRIAGE.
So long as the following thrilling description of latter-day repentance stands
On the record of God, it can never be unimportant to investigate the bearings
of the matrimonial connection, on our allegiance to Jesus Christ.
" I will pour upon the house of David, and upon the inhabitants of Jerusalem,
the spirit of grace and of supplications : and they shall look upon me whom they
have pierced, and they shall mourn for him, as one mourneth for his only son,
and shall be in bitterness for him, as one that is in bitterness for his first-born.
In that day shall there be a great mourning in Jerusalem, as the mourning of
Hadad-rimmon in the valley of Megiddon. And the land shall mourn, every fam-
ily ppart ; the family of the house of David apart, and their wives apart ; the
family of the house of Nathan apart, and their wives apart; the family of the
house of Levi apart, and their wives apart; the family of Shimei apart, and their
wives apart ; all the families that remain, every family apart, and their wives
apart." Zech. 12: 10—14.
Those conservatives who are ever ready to raise an outcry about ' separa-
ting man and wife,' whenever the all-engrossing claims of Jesus Christ are
brought to view, are certainly conservative '
above that which is written.'
We think the Shakers even a more rational people. For though they handle
the subject of sexual intercourse erroneously, they are certainly not in an
error in regard to the imioortance of the subject. We shall give our general
views on this matter, by a few comments on the above passage from Zecha-
riah.
We have no doubt that the ^'mourning' spoken of by the prophet, came to
pass (at least in part) on the day of Pentecost, and afterward during the
apostolic age, w^hen three thousand Jews in Jerusalem, and multitudes in all
the coasts of Israel, looked on '
their king whom they had crucified,' and
mourned for him in '
bitterness' of soul. But did the primitive believers
mourn in the manner described by Zechariah, i. e. ^ every family apart, and
their wives apart T In order to answer this question, we will examine the
principal witnesses of the New Testament.
I. As the primitive church were '•followers of Jesus Christ,'^ we shall put
O'jrselves in the way to ascertain something about their spirit, by looking into
his teachings and example. He was never married. He spoke of those who-
* made themselves eunuchs for the kingdom of heaven's sake,' in a manner
that indicated his approval. Matt. 19: 12. He said he '
came to send a
sword' through men's households. Matt. 10: 34-—36. He made it a condi-
tion of discipleship, that men should '
hate' and '
forsake' their wives among
other earthly valuables ;
(Luke 14: 26 ;) and when afterwards he promised
that those valuables should be restored, with a hundred-fold increase, he omit-
ted mentioning wives in his enumeration. Mark 10: 29, 30. Finally he
declared that there would be '
neither marrying nor giving in marriage,' in
the resurrection ; i. e. in the world to which his kingdom pertained. And
in this last declaration we undoubtedly have a clue to the meaning of his ex^
I
482 MARRIAGE.
ample, and many of his Instructions. He was urging his way toward the
resurrection, and he called men to folloAv him. He therefore partly antici-
pated the manner of life on which he was soon to enter, and encouraged oth-
ers to do Hkewise. We should expect that the followers of such a leader
would not regard marriage as a very important institution, at least to them-
selves ; and in the '
mourning' process, by which they became his disciples
and entered into spiritual fellowship with him, it would certainly be natural
and necessary, that they should in spirit, if not literally, part with their
'Wives. ' ^^-^ - y,^^...^AA4
II. Paul followed hard after Christ ; and his spirit was certainly the chief
leaven of a great part of the primitive church. He likewise was not married;
and he avowedly wished that all men were like himself in this respect. 1 Cor.
T: 7. His guiding principle was the same as Christ's ; he looked forward to
the resurrection as his home, and considering that '
the time was short' that
must elapse before his arrival there, he dechned encumbering himself with
relations that belong only to this world. Though he gave no commandment
to others on this subject, but declared ' marriage honorable in all ;
(thus
standing far apart from Papists and Shakers ;) yet he enjoined that ' they
that had wives should be as though they had none,' (1 Cor. T: 29—31,)
evidently meaning that they should not regard the matrimonial relation as
any thing more than a temporary external ar^aiigemeiit ;
' for,' says he,
*
the fashion of this world passeth away.' Such were the instructions and
example of the apostle who had the '
care of all the churches.' Under such
influences, the primitive church must have passed through a spiritual if not a
literal fulfilment of Zechariah's prophecy.
III. According to the constant and most earnest testimony of all the wri-
ters of the New Testament, the love of Jesus Christ ought to supplant all
other affections. The '
washing of regeneration,' (as has been shown in the
article on the '
Twofold Nature of the Second Birth,') consists in being
cleansed by the word, from all idols and uncleannesses. Now of all the
attachments of this world, the marriage connection is undoubtedly the strong-
est—that over which selfishness is most jealous. The natural rank of this
attachment is manifested in the appointment of God, that 'a man shall leave
father and mother, and cleave unto his wife.' This then may be regarded
as the representative of all other idolatries ; and if it should be said, 'A man
shall leave his wife and cleave unto Jesus Christ,' the saying would virtually
cover the whole ground of Christ's declaration '
Except a man forsake fa-
ther, mother, brother, sister, houses, lands, &c., he cannot be my disciple.'
Such in fact appears to be the spirit .of Zechariah's prophecy under consider-
ation. The people were to mourn for Jesus Christ, with such affection as
should separate husbands from their wives, and of course sunder every other
earthly attachment. As surely as Christ spoke the truth, when he said to his
disciples, '
Now are ye clean through my word'—as surely as it was true of
some of the Corinthians, that they '
were washed and sanctified'—as surely
as the object of Christ's death was secured in presenting '
to himself a holy
and glorioas church, without spot or wrinkle,'—so surely were those of
whom these things were said, weaned and cleansed from the marriage fashion
I MARRIAGE. 483
of this world, and brought to know m spirit no husband or mfe but Christ
and his church.
IV. Paul's gospel of the cross and the resurrection, necessarily involves all
that is described by Zechariah. *
They shall look,' says the prophet, 'on him
whom they have pierced, and shall mourn—every family apart, and their
wives apart.' Accordingly says Paul, 'I determined to know nothing but
Christ crucified ;'
and with this intent, he lived unmarried, and wished all
might do the same.
The very same principle that made the cross tlie end of circumcision, also
nailed to it the worldly ordinance of marriage. '
The law [of marriage] hath
dominion over a man [only] so long as he Hveth.' Christ having died, and
beyond death having become the head of all who believe on him, removes
them from the territory of the law. '
In the resurrection there is neither
marrying nor giving in marriage.' ' Why then,' says the apostle to believers
in the resurrection, '
are ye subject to ordinances ?' What ordinance could
he, so far as principle is concerned, more fitly refer to, than that of marriage ?
In these days, we doubt not, he would have occasion to say—' If I yet
preach [marriage,] why do I yet suffer persecution ? Then is the offense of
the cross ceased.'
^
That we may leave no fair occasion of misunderstanding and abusing the
views we have presented, we must now guard them by producing some qual-
ifying testimony.
1. Jesus Christ did not require or even exhort men to abstain from mar-
riage for the kingdom of heaven's sake, but left every man to choose his own
course according to the power and will given him of God. Some of his dis-
ciples were married, and were not required to procure a divorce, or abstain
from intercourse.
2. That he had no bigoted legal aversion against marriage, like that of the
Shakers, is evident from the fact that he attended a wedding with his disci-
ples in the beginning of his ministry, and there commenced the manifesta-
tion of his glory.
3. Paul very cautiously refrained from making any law against marriage.
His advice on the subject (1 Cor. 7) is so shaped as to leave every one per-
fectly free. He positively says, '
he that giveth in marriage doeth well f—
' marriage is honorable in all ;' and he speaks of those who forbid to marry,
as deluded apostates.
4: Instead of making the distinction between the clergy and the laity,
which is made by the Papists, in prohibiting the marriage of the former, he
speaks of bishops and deacons, in conne^cion with their wives, (1 Tim. 3,)
with evident approbation of the connection ; making a minister's good man-
agement of his own family, a guaranty of Ms competence to rule the church
of God.
5. His directions to the married show that his objections to matrimony
were not objections to sexual intercourse, but to the distractions and '
troub-
les of the flesh' incident to a worldly and transitory connection. A rabid
marriage-hater would have said to the married, '
If you cannot be lawfully
divorced, yet you ought to abstain from the abomination.' But the apostle
64
434 MARRiAGffi.
says, * Defraud ye not one the other, except it be with consent for a titn^^
that ye may give yourselves to fasting and prayer.'
6. In relation to Christ's requirement that men should '
hate' and '
forsake^
their wives, in order to be his disciples^ it must be considered, that it extends
also to every other earthly good. In whatever sense men are called to part
with their wives, in the same sense they must al^o forsake '
their lives.'—•'
So that if We push the words of Christ to the extremity of their literal
meaning, we make them require suicide as well as Shakerism. Moreover
the NcAV Testament expressly enjoins on believers to '
love their wives even
as Christ loved the church.' Eph. 5: 25^
7. Paul's gospel nails marriage to the cross only in the same way as it
nails circumcision, and other worldly ordinances ^ We may therefore apply
what Paul says of circumcision, to marriage. While, on the one hand, he
says to the Colossians, '
Why as though living in the world are ye subject ta
ordinances ?' and to the Galatians, '
If ye be circumcised, Christ shall profit
you nothing ;'—-on the other, he says three times orer, 'Neither eircumdsion
availeth any thing^ nor tiJ^ciRCtMCisioi^r.* Accordingly he circumcised
Timothy, though he had just before had *
no small disputation' with certain
legalists who insisted on the necessity of circumcision, and had gone with
Barnabas to Jerusalem^ and procured a judgment of the apostles against
them. Acts 15 & 16. Nor was he in all this inconsistent ; for it is one thing
to be ' subject '
to law as a slave, and it i^ another to conform to law as a
freeman. Marriage, then, is not to be absolutely eschewed because it is
hailed with circumcision to the cross*
8. An unauthorized and evil use is made of the text^ *
In the resurrection
they neither marry, nor are given in marriage,' when it is taken for proof
that the distinction between the sexes^—the very image of God^s to be ob--
literated in heaven, and all the glorious offices and affections growing out of
that distinction are to have an end. '
The fashion of this world passeth away;^
but not the constitution of human nature. The ivorldly ordinance of mar*
riage is nailed to the cross with the hody of Jesus ; but the substance^ of which
that ordinance is a shadow, ascends with his spirit to paradise. They are
greatly deluded, therefore, who think to follow Jesus and Paulj by mutilating
Or smothering the susceptibilities of their social nature.
9. While believers in the primitive church reckoned themselves spiritually
crucified with Christ, and in initial fellowship with his resurrection, so thai
in many things (especially those which pertain to the inward man, and to
non-essential ordinances) it was proper that they should adopt the modes and
liberty of the heavenly state ; and in all things they were bound to look forj
and hasten unto ' the new heavens and the new earth ;' yet they also reck'
oned themselves in some sense as citizens of this world, '
waiting for the re-^
demption of their bodies,' *
not as though they had already attained' the full
resurrection and glory of Christ. Under the influence of this double reck*
oning, their practice properly and necessarily assumed a mixed character.
While on the one hand, as citizens of heaven, they abandoned the world's
views of the importance of marriage, and some abstained from it ; while all
* who had wiveSj were in spirit as though they had none j' on the other hand,
APOSTOLICAL SUCCESSION. 485
&s Citizens of this world, they kept a good conscience toward man as well as
God, by observing the ordinances and laws of this world concerning the in*
tereourse of the sexes.
The conclusion of the whole matter may be stated in the language of Paul's
motto :—-' Neither marriage availeth any thing, nor celibacy availeth any
thing ; but a new creature—faith that worketh by love—the keeping of th@
commandments of God.'
§62. 'APOSTOLICAL SUCCESSION.'
'The '
Oxford Tract' writers, in common with the Papists,, give the clergy
©f their own church a monopoly of the business of dispensing salvation, in the -
following manner. 1. The reception of the ordinances of Baptism and the
Lord's Supper, say they, are indispensable to salvation. 2. The efficacy of
those ordinances to save men, depends on the validity of the ordination of the
priest who administers them. 3. The only valid ordination is that which has
eome down from the apostles, by regular transmission from bishop to bishop,
in the Episcopal and Romish churches. In other words, Christ, they say,
gave the apostles the keys of the kingdom of heaven, and they gave them to
their successors ; and so those keys have come into the hands of the present
bishops and priests of the old hereditary churches, to the exclusion of all dis-
senters and heretics whatsoever. Now the basis of this whole superstructure
is the assumption^ that the ecclesiastical organization instituted by Jesus Christ
and his apostles, was designed to continue in the world through successive
generations till the end of time ; and that the authority which \]hi'ist gave
his apostles, he intended also to give their successors. This assumption rests
almost entirely on one little text : viz.. Matt. 28: 20,—-' Xo, Iam with you
alway^ even unto the end of the ivorld,'' That this is the corner stone of the he-
reditary churches, any one may see by reading the first volume of the '
Tracts
for the Times.' This text is there quoted almost exclusively, on all occasions
where proof of the continuation and present existence of the original organi-
zation is required. In a cursory perusal we counted twenty instances in
which it is thus quoted. A few of those instances, we will here introduce,
to show the purport and bearing of the whole.
" Our Lord ended the sentence in which Ije endued them [the apostles] with
power to baptize, with the promise of his assistance in the discharge of their
functions through all time. ' Go, ' said he, ' baptize all nations : and, lo, I am
with you alway, even unto the end of the v/orid :' a phrase which, as addressed
to mortal men, must clearly have been understood as a promise of continual as-
iBistance to them and to their successors." Vol. L page 33.
" It would lead us into endless difficulties were we to admit that, when ad^
ministered by a minister duly authorized According to the outward forms of the
Church, either Baptism or the Lord's Supper depended for its validity either QU
436 APOSTOLICAL SUCCESSION.
the moral and spiritual attainments of that minister, or on the frame of mind in
which he might have received, at his ordination, the outward and visible sign of
his authority The very question of worth, indeed,
with relation to such matters, is absurd. Who is worthy ? Who is a fit and
meet dispenser of the gifts of the Holy Spirit ? What are, after all, the petty
differences between sinner and sinner, when viewed in relation to Him whose
eyes are too pure to behold iniquity, and who charges his very angels with folly ?
And be it remembered that the apostolic powers, if not transmitted through
these, in some instances corrupt channels, have not been transmitted to our
times at all. Unless then we acknowledge the reality of such transmission, we
must admit that the Church which Christ founded is no longer to be found upon
the earth, and that the promise of his proteclion, so far from being available to
the end of the world, is forgotten and out of date already." p. 37.
" That the apostles were in some sense or other to remain on earth to the end
of all things, is plain from the text, ' Lo, I am with you alway,' &c." p. 48.
" Dr. Spencer. —Our Lord promised to be with his apostles in their character
of teachers and baptizers of the nations, alway, even unto the end of the world.
What did he mean by that ?
" John Evans. —He could not mean that Peter, James, or John, or their
brethren, were to live forever on earth : for we know that they are long since
dead.
"Dr. S. —Certainly not ; and we must therefore ascribe to his words the only
other meaning which they can reasonably bear. As he could not have spoken
o^ i\\Q persons of the apostles, he must have spoken of their ojjices. He must
have meant that though Peter, James, and John, should be taken from the world,
the true Church should never be left without apostles, but be guided by their
successors to the end of time." p. 229.
[The commission given to Peter in Matt. 16: 19,] " has been handed down,
by the laying on of hands, from bishops to bishops, and will so continue to the
end of time, according to that promise, whereby our Lord engaged to continue
with them always in the exercise of it, when he sold to the apostles, * Lo, I am
with you always, even unto the end of the world.' " p. 261. See also pages
46, 48, 60, 89, 227, 341, 361, 383, 407, 433.
The reader will perceive that the value of this corner stone of Oxfordism
depends on the interpretation of the expression, '
even unto the end of the
world.' The tract writers coolly assume that it means, '
through all time,'
* to the end of all things,' '
to the end of time ;' and then they are at liberty,
nay they are obliged, to expand the promise of Christ thus : ' Lo, I am with
you and your successors, even unto the end of the world.' Now it is too
great a tax on our charity to believe that the professors and inmates of a uni-
versity so thoroughly steeped in Greek literature as that of Oxford, are igno-
rant, and therefore honest, in this assumption. A very slight examination
of parallel passages, even in the English New Testament, might have given
them an insight into the meaning of the expression '
the end of the world,'
which would have nullified the whole argument which they have built upon
it. We are constrained to believe that they are willing to take advantage
of a mistranslation and a consequent popular misapprehension, for purposes
of imposture ; and that they feel sedare in doing so, because the mass of their
opposers, the dissenting clergy, consent to the prevalence of the same uiisap-
prehension, and avail themselves of it in like manner.
APOSTOLICAL SUCCESSION. 437
The Greek word oio^t which is translated 'world' in Matt. 28: 20, and else-
where through the New Testament, according to all competent lexicographers
and commentators, refers n^t to the earth, but to a division o^time, and should
be translated a^, or dispensation. Kobinson explains the matter thus :
" The Jews were accustomed to dispute concerning the two ages of the world,
the one of which they called the • present age or world,' the other ' the age or
world to come.' The former, in their opinion, was to comprehend the time from
the creation to the advent of the Messiah, and was marked by imbecility, im-
perfection, ignorance, vice, and calamity. The latter they referred to the joyful
time when the Messiah should come in majesty to establish his dominion : when
he should subdue to himself all kingdoms, recall the dead to life, sit in judgment,
&c. ; when, in short, he should introduce a ne}v era, distinguished by liberty,
knowledge, piety, and felicity." Lexicon, article aion.
Bishop Newton, of the Episcopal church, (who ought to be good authority
at Oxford,) commenting on Matt: 24: 3, says
•" The end of the world, or the conclusion of the age, is the same period with the
destruction of Jerusalem ; for there being two ages among the Jews, the one
under the law, the other under the Messiah ; when the city and temple were de-
stroyed, and the Jewish polity in church and state dissolved, the former must of
course be concluded, and the age under the Messiah commenced."
The correctness of these expositions, and the utter absurdity of any other,
is seen at a glance, by consulting even the English versions of 1 Cor. 10:
11,—' All these things happened unto them for ensamples : and they are
written for our admonition, upon whom the eri^s of the wo7'ld are come ;'
and Heb. 9: 26, ^Now once in the end of the world hath he [Christ] ap-
peared, to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself.' What world was that,
the end of which had come upon the primitive church ? What world was
that, in the end of which Christ appeared ? The only answer that can satisfy
common sense, is, the world or age or dispensation of Mosaic Judaism, which
came to an end at the destruction of Jerusalem. Christ clearly determined
the meaning of the expression, '•the end of the world^ in the 24th of Matthew.
His disciples asked him what should be '
the sign of the end of the world T*
* This question, with its context, stands thus : 'When shall these things he? andichat
shall be the sign of thy coining, and of the end of the world s" '
These things' in the first
clause, refers to the destruction of the tenr.ple, predicted in the verse before. Notwith-
standing' the gross absurdity of supposing- that the disciples asked in the same breath,
one question about the destruction of the temple, and another about a subject as far re-
moved from that, and from the whole subject of the previous conversation, as the east
is from the west, yet some will have it that this question relates to two, or even three
widely separate events, viz: 1, the destruction of the temple; 2, the coming of Christ,
which is yet future; 3, the final conflagration of the universe. Now, there is one plain
fact that ought to make an end of this outrage on common sense forever. Luke, in the
parallel passage, (21: 7,) records the same question, in the same words, only he uses
the expression 'these things,' in the last part of the question, as well as in the first, in-
stead of specifying, as Matthew does, (he coming of Christ and the end of the world:
* }Vhcn shall these things he ? and what sign will there he tchen these things shall come to pass ?''
This form of the question plainly shows, that the coming of Christ and the end of the
world were so identified as to their time, in Luke's mind, with the destruction of the
temple, that he thought it proper to comprise them all under one term. The question
has two parts, viz : first, as to the time; second, as to the tokens : but both parts evi-
dently relate to one complex event; viz., the end of the Mosaic economy, with its con-
comitants, the destruction of the temple in the outward world, and the second comiiig
of Christ in the spiritual world.
438 APOSTOLICAL SUCCESSION.
He answered, ' This gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in all the,
world, for a witness unto all nations ; and then shall the end come.'' Ver. 3,
14. What goes before this answer, viz., predictions of events which actually
preceded the final overthrow of Judaism ; and what follows after it, viz., pre-
dictions of the invasion of the Roman army and the siege of Jerusalem ; utter-
ly forbid the apphcation of it to any other event than the termination of the
Mosaic economy. If it is objected that the sign of the end, viz., the universal
preaching of the gospel, did not come to pass before the destruction of Jeru-
salem, we join issue with the objector on this point, and appeal to Mark 16:
20, Rom. 10: 18, Col. 1: 6, 23. If the objector is disposed to appeal from
scripture to external history, we will go with him even there. Eusebius,
the father of ecclesiastical historians, is almost the only authority that can be
appealed to in relation to the early ages of Christianity. He says in the first
chapter of the third book of his ecclesiastical history, that ' the holy apostles
and disciples of our Savior, were scattered over the whole world' in the time
of Nero, between A. D. 60 and 70 ; and again in the eighth chapter of the
same book, that Hhe sound of the holy apostles, went throughout all the earth,
and their words to the end of the world^^
at the '
very time' when Jerusalem
was nigh its destruction.
Christ then had previously defined the meaning of the language he used
in his last address to his disciples. He had expressly set the time of the
'end of the world.' His disciples knew that he referred to an event that
should come to pass within the time of the generation then living. When he
said, ' Go teach all nations &c., and, lo, I am with you alway, even unto the
end of the world^' he placed in conjunction the very same two events that he
joined in Matt. 24: 14, viz., the testimony to all nations, and the end of the
world. His meaning plainly ^vas, '
It is your business to proclaim the gospel
to all nations, previous to the predicted end of the present order of things
and, lo, I am with you till your work is finished,' Or we may paraphrase
his language again, thus :
* While I go to my Father, leaving you to publish
my gospel to the world, and to encounter the turbulence of the last days ap-
parently alone, still go to your work with good cheer ; for I will be with you
in spirit through this whole period of my absence in person, even till I come
again at the time of the end, according to my promise.' It is perfectly evi-
dent that the commission and the promise in Matt. 28: 20, were given to the
apostles only. The expression, '-
the end of the world,' instead of requiring
or authorizing the interpolation of ' their successors,' as the tract-writers ar-
gue, absolutely forbids it ; for according to the definition of Christ, that ex-
pression refers to an event that was to come to pass before they, as a body,
could have any successors ; i. e., within their own lifetime.
We do not deny that Christ is with those who believe on him, and preach
Ms gospel, in all ages. This is plainly implied in such texts as John 17: 20,
Acts 10: 35, and might be inferred from the character of God, without any
explicit promise. But we do deny that Matt. 28: 20, furnishes one particle
of proof of the continuance of the primitive organization, and apostohc author-
ity, beyond the time of the destruction of Jerusalem ; and we afiirm that the
writers of the Oxford Tracts, learned and devout as they may seem; in making
tURlTAN PUSEYISM. 4B9
fi. false intei'pretatlon of that text their foundation, have based their ^hole
gorgeous system of ecclesiastical domination on a piece of egregious folly and
fraud*
§ 63. PURITAN PUSEYISM.
There has never been a time since the Reformation, when the struggle be-
tween Prelacy and Puritanism was so fierce as it is now. The periodicals
of Congregationalists and Presbyterians teem constantly with argument and
Hdicule against the principles and pretensions of Episcopacy. The entire
strength of the religious world seems to be gathering itself into the strife, and
the whole war of the Reformation is evidently to be fought over again.
At such a time we think it behooves the opponents of Prelacy to consider
their own ways, and see whether they have not in a measure prepared the
ground in this country for that growth of formalism which now threatens to
overrun their territories and supplant their institutions. We entirely sympa-
thise with them in their aversion to the mummeries of Popes and Bishops ;
but we are in a better position than they are, to see how far they, in the times
of their undisturbed possession of this country, have countenanced and imita-
ted those mummeries ; and we are disposed now to show them their sins in
this respect, that they may repent of them, and go to the battle with clean
hands.
Prelacy sets over the parochial clergy a superior order of ministers, called
bishops, as in an army colonels are set over captains. Anti-prelacy has but
one grade of ministers—the parochial clergy—and insists that the institution
of a higher order is anti-republican. '
Parity' of ministerial rank is the ele--
Inent of church government for which the Congregationalist and Presbyterian
clergy are intensely jealous. We will not now go into the question whether
one of these systems is more salutary and scriptural than the other. We
choose rather to direct attention to some considerations which go to show that
the essence of that very *
anti-republicanism' which is charged upon Prelacy,
exists also in Congregationalism and Presbyterianism.
It should be noticed that the self-same jealousy for *
parity' and indepen--
dence exists in the Episcopalian church as in the anti-prelatical churches ;
only its seat is a story higher in one case than in the other. The Congrega-
tioiialist captains are jealous for their freedom from Episcopal colonels ; and
the Episcopal colonels are jealous for their freedom from Popish brigadier
generals. ,
' Parity' of hisJiops is the palladium of Episcopal liberty, just as
* parity' of ministers is that of Puritan liberty. Popery, in setting one bish-
op over the rest as a universal overseer, oifends the Episcopalian bishops, as
touch as Prelacy, in setting bishops over the lower clergy, ofFejids the clergy
440 PtJRITAN PUSEtlSM.
of the Presbyterians and Congregationalists.* We see by this, that men may
be jealous for '
parity' when they look up, and at the same time very -well
pleased with distinctions of rank when they look doivn. This is human na-
ture. Let us see if Congregationalist and Presbyterian clergymen are free
from it.
The principle of ' parit}^,' when carried out into pure republicanism, not
only pulls popes down among the bishops, and bishops down among the par-
ish ministers, but parish ministers down among the people. Is this kind of
' parity '
cherished in our Puritan churches ? We are very sure it was not
a few years ago, if it is now. The people used to be taught, and probably
have a strong impression to this day, that a parish minister is a commissioned
officer of Christ, taking rank above them as a special '
servant of the Lord,'
and entrusted with exclusive power of dispensing the sacraments. Indeed,
within our own remembrance, Congregational ministers have claimed the
* power of the keys,' or something very much like it, by asserting against
those who opposed them, the prerogative given in the text
—' Whatsoever ye
shall bind on earth, shall be bound in heaven,' &c. Who can doubt that the
Congregational and Presbyterian clergy w^ould resist and cry doAvn any^i^-
tempts of the common people to establish practical '
parity ' by doing their
own preaching and administering the ordinances for themselves ? As long
as it is the prelatical bull that gores their ox, they stand firm for their rights ;
but if it should be found that their own parish bull is goring the people's ox,
we imagine they would say—' That alters the case.'
It is urged on behalf of the anti-prelatical churches, that their clergy are
elected by the people, and that in this respect their system is more republi-
can than that of their opponents. But is it so ? Do the people really elect
their ministers in the Congregational churches according to republican prin-
ciples ? In the free State governments, all citizens are elgible to office.
Are all church members eligible to the ministry ? Churches may indeed
choose their own ministers, but they must choose them from a limited number
of persons previously hcensed by the associate clergy. The clerical body has
the prerogative of primary nomination, and the churches only confirm their
appointments and employ their nominees.
The bare fact that one man in each church is empowered either for a term
of years or for Hfe, to superintend or direct its business, to shape its opinions,
to perform its public praying and preaching, and to administer its ordinances,
gives a decidedly monarchical aspect to the Congregational and Presbyterian
systems. Their churches stand as anomalies in the midst of our secular par-
ish-machineries. If the Pope is guilty of anti-republicanism in the first de-
gree, and Episcopal bishops in the second degree, all our village clergymen
are guilty of the same crime in the third degree. It matters not whether a
man presides as a priest over all Christendom like the Pope, or over a pro-
vincial diocese like a bishop, or over a little parish like a Congregational
* The bishop of the diocese of South Carolina, concluded his judg-ment on Ihe trial of
bishop Onderdonk with the following- observation :
—'The occasion reminds us to cling-
with tenacity to, and to be thankful for, the divinely-ordered, the essential indepen-
dence of each diocese.'
p
PURITAN PUSEYISM. 441
minister. If the distinction of rank and power is substantially the same in
the several cases, the anti-republicanism is the same.
We would not be understood as taking ground with the anti-prelatists on
the value of republicanism in church government. In our view it is not neces-
sarily a censure of a religious institution, to say that it is anti-republican.
The kmgdom of heaven is certainly a monarchy. God is the autocrat of cre-
ation, omnipotent and irresponsible. And the church, so far as it is a part
of the kingdom of heaven, is governed by authorities which proceed from
God downward, and not from the people upward. The mischief of arbitrary
government lies not in the nature of things, but in the proneness of corrupt
men to abuse power. We object not to the parish-monarchies of our clergy-
men, nor even to the larger monarchies of the bishops, or the universal mon-
archy of the Pope, on the ground that they are anti-republican. If these
functionaries were fit for the offices they claim, and were really ordained of
God, we would submit to them cheerfully without finding any fault with the
forms of their government. Our difficulty with them all, is, that we have no
evidence that they are commissioned from above, but much to the contrary.
Their sin is, that they have set themselves up as priests over the people,
without authority ; and the Congregational and Presbyterian clergy are as ^
really guilty of this as the bishops and the Pope.
We ask them to consider whether their small assumptions of priestly power
have not prepared the way for the larger pretensions of those who are now
seeking to supplant them ; —whether the distinction which they have kept up
between themselves and the people, and the monopoly of church-teaching
and administration of ordinances which they have claimed, has not predis-
posed the public mind to receive the monstrous impostures of the Episcopal
and Eomish clergy. At all events, so long as they claim and exercise the
authority of priests, on however small a scale, the charge of anti-republi-
canism, brought agauist the bishops and Pope for exercising the same
authority on a larger scale, comes from them with an ill grace.
Let us see if the anti-prelatists are not implicated on some other points in
the impostures which they condemn in their adversaries. They complain
loudly of the arrogance and bigotry of the prelates, in claiming for the
Episcopal churches a monopoly of God's '
covenanted mercies,' and denying
the safety of any out of their fold. But have not the complainants them-
selves labored in times past, to produce the impression that salvation is not
to be had without joining their church or some other visible body of profes-
sors ? If so, the only difference between them and the prelates, is, that the
former extend the tremendous prerogative of dispensing salvation to several
sects, while the latter confine it to one. Are the Congregationahsts ready
even now, when the storm of Puseyism is upon them, to throw overboard
their assumptions on this point, and confess that men may believe in Christ
and be saved without joining any visible church ?
Again, the Congregationahsts and their allies in the war against Prelacy,
clann for themselves the credit of defending spiritual religion against
^formalism.'* They abound in ridicule and reprobation of the theatrical
performances of Puseyism, and the absurd pretensions connected with them
55
442 I^tniTAN PtJSEYISM.
fiUcli as tKat baptism effects regeneration : that the eiicliarist is a prmcipd
Inedium of grace, and not a mere non-essential emblem; that the Holy Ghost
Is communicated by the laying on of the bishop's hands, &c. But Ave think
it would not be difficult to show that a vast amount of superstition about the
virtue of water baptism, infant sprinkUng, the Lord's supper, and the laying
on of hands, not a whit better than the superstitions of the Cathohcs and
Puseyites, has been encouraged among Congregationalists and their sister
churches, by their clergy, and exists among them to this day. The mysteri-
ous importance which is attached to immersion, by Baptists on the one hand,
and to infant sprinkling, by Pedo-baptists on the other, is, to say the least,
a stock on which the doctrine of baptismal regeneration may be easily graf-
ted. We were taught by Congregationalists, in our younger days, to look
for some wonderful communications of grace in the ceremony of eating bread
and drinking wine, and were tempted sometimes to doubt our own spirituality
because we found no miraculous power in those elements. Here is fit soil,
at least, for the hocus-pocus of transubstantiation. When a minister is or-
dained, the clergy lay their hands on him. What do they mean by it ?
Is it done in imitation of the practice of the primitive church ? It is well
known that the laying on of hands in that churcn was not a mere ceremony,
but actually communicated the Holy Ghost. The practice then, in Congre-
gational ordinations, either is a piece of pure nonsense without scripture foun-
dation, or it signifies that divine power passes from the ordainers to the
ordained. Taken either way, it smells strongly of Puseyism. It is well
called the imposition—oi hands. So Episcopal sanctification of buildings,
places, vestments, &c., has its counterpart in Congregational dedications.
And in short, for every full blown mummery of the Episcopal and Cathohc
churches, a corresponding germ at least, may be found in Congregationahsm
and Presbyterianism.
When the fathers of our churches^—such men as Dr. Woods, Dr. Hewitt,
and Dr. Cox—are called from time to time to mourn over the lapse of their
favorite, w^oll-trained sons into Prelacy, have they not reason to inquire
whether the clerical assumptions and formalisms of their own denominations
have not sown the seeds of the bitter fruit they are eating ?
The point where Popery, Prelacy, and the dissenting sects all fully unite,
is in certain spiritual principles, back of all forms. Their common essence
is legality. They are all equally ignorant of the essential distinction between
the Jewish and Christian dispensations ; all blind to the spiritual power of
Christ's resurrection, by which true believers are emancipated from sin, law,
and carnal ordinances. Having no idea of the possibility of holiness of heart
in this world, they are all obliged to provide systems of carnal nursing for
guilty consciences. Ceremonies and duty-doings are the natural substitutes
for grace. Indulgences, either retail as in the Catholic system, or wholesale,
as among Protestants, are indispensable in all systems which make no provis*
ion for salvation from sin. A Levitical priesthood is the necessary substitute
for the Melchiscdec order, where there is no immediate communication with
God. In a word, all sin-allowing, law-teaching churches are of necessity
ispiritually reducible to one common genus, viz., that of Judaism. Some of
UNITY OP THE KINGDOM OF GOD. 44S
them may go further than others in the outward development of their legal
tendencies, but they are all one at the root ; and all will put forth, either in
the bud, flower, or fruit, the same formalisms and idolatries.
So long as nothing but Protestant Judaism is arrayed against Popish, and
Puritan Judaism against Prelatical, no rational hope of overthrowing the
kingdom of formahsm can be entertained. If the Congregational and Pros*
byterian clergy are, as they suppose, the '
forlorn hope' of religious freedom
and spiritual religion, we may well say—Woe to the world.
Yet there is reason to hope that the pressure of Prelacy is working a good
change in the Puritan churches. The combativeness which the arrogance
and formahsms of Episcopacy excite, reacts upon them and disposes them to
lower their own pretensions, and think hghtly of their own ceremonies. They
are Hghtening their ship of all the Puseyistic lumber they can spare. No
halfway movement, however, will save them. That kind of reformation was
tried in the first rebelHon against Popery, and its failure is now abundantly
manifest. Congregationalism and Presbyterianism ' must he horn again.
The change from Judaism to Christianity is not a mere modification,—it is
a radical revolution. Yet the war with Prelacy is, we trust, generating a
predisposition to that revolution. Its tendency, in common with that of ma-
ny other movements of the age, is toward freedom from old-world puerilities,
and the development of spiritualism. It is a premonitory symptom of tho
Second Reformation.
P § 64. UNITY OF THE KINGDOM OF GOD.
In the present state of things, unity of social organization is violated in
four ways. We have, 1, the state as a whole, separate from the church
2, many different states independent of each other; 3, many diiferent
churches independent of each other ; and 4, a variety of benevolent and
reformatory organizations independent of both church and state. Each of
the nations is a kingdom by itself; each of the sects is a kingdom of itself;
and every branch of benevolent eifort and reform is a kingdom by itself.
Now however useful or necessary these fragmentary organizations may be
while the religious and political world is without form and void, and darkness
is upon the face of it, we are certain that the kingdom of God is not in any
of them ; and that when that kingdom comes, a principle of unity will appear
which will draw them all into one organization, or sweep them away with the
besom of destruction.
This is plainly predicted in scripture, at least so far as the separation of
church and state, and the division of the world into independent nations,
are concerned. The word of prophecy is, that when the carnal principle of
unity which existed more or less in the series of Gentiles monarchies shall
have spent itself, and the political world shall come to be a congeries of in-
444 UNITY OF THE KINGDOM OF GOD.
dependent kingdoms, (as it is this day,) '
the God of heaven shall set up a
kingdom, which shall never be destroyed ; and it shall break in pieces and
consume all these kingdoms, and it shall stand for ever.' Dan. 2: 44. The
very name of the kingdom here predicted, and the divinity of its origin,
prove that it is to be a religious kingdom, i. e, a church in the proper sense
of the word ; and this church, according to the plain terms of the prophecy,
is to break in pieces all the political governments of the world, and take their
place. In other words, the church, instead of being separate from the state
and subordinate to it, and instead of being joined to the state, is to be the
state ; and this Church-State is to be the only government over the whole
world.
This sweeps away two of the disunities mentioned above—the division of
the church and state, and the division of the nations. We hardly need
present any separate proof in regard to the other two—the division of the
church into sects, and the independency of benevolent and reformatory
organizations. It is eminently ridiculous to suppose that the kingdom of God
-will be composed of a multitude of denominations, differing in doctrine, and
antagonistical in action,—that Christ will break in pieces the nations and re-
duce the political world to unity, and yet consent to leave the rehgious world
in its present fragmentary state. The prediction is not that God will set up
a score or two of separate and hostile rehgious kingdoms, which shall break
in pieces and supersede the nations ; but that he will '
set up A kingdom'—
one organization, that shall take the place of all its predecessors, of course
rehgious as well as political. And it is equally ridiculous to suppose that
this kingdom will leave its own proper work of evangelizing and reforming
the world to be performed by independent Bible Societies, Missionary Boards,
and Temperance Unions.
The great disadvantage which attends the present plurality of independent
organizations, is the distraction of heart which it produces. A man wishes to
be a patriot, and at the same time a Christian. This might be, if the gov-
ernment of his country and the church of God were one, or if one of them
were a subordinate branch of the other. But the government of his country
is a kingdom by itself, and the church to which he belongs is a kingdom by
itself. Christ says truly, that ' no man can serve two masters ; for either he
will hate the one and love the other, or else he will hold to the one and de-
spise the other.^ A devoted allegiance to two or more independent kingdoms
is impossible. The man must choose between his country and his church.
If he will be a devoted patriot, he must be an indifferent churchman. If he
will hold to his church, he must despise his country. Or in the vain struggle
to serve both masters, he will be a hearty and faithful servant of neither.
The people of Ireland are experiencing the miseries of a divided allegiance.
They are politically the subjects of the crown of England, and spiritually the
subjects of the See of Rome. Just in proportion as they are religious, they
must be seditious. The same is true, in a greater or less degree, of Roman
Catholics in all countries that are politically independent of the Pope. And
in fact, the same is true of religionists of every name, who belong to churches
which are separate from the civil governments under which they live. Men
UNITY OF THE KINGDOM OF GOD. 445
whose religion is a mere formal Sunday affair, may be liege subjects of the
powers that be ; but whoever loves his religion and his church with supreme
devotion, has necessarily more or less treason against his country in his heart.
Observation will attest that our most devoted patriots are lukewarm religion-
ists, and our most devoted religionists are lukewarm patriots. This is the
necessary result of the position in which the separation of church and state
places men, even where the relations of church and state are not unfriendly.
Again, the division of the world into independent nations, makes it impos-
sible for a man to be a patriot and a cosmopolite at the same time. Loyalty
and universal philanthropy are incompatible, because the policy of each insu-
lated kingdom is inevitably hostile to the interests of the world at large. So
the division of the religious world into sects necessarily raises a competition
in each man's heart between the claims of the church universal and those of
the church to which he belongs. If he is a warm Presbyterian or Methodist,
he must be indifferent or hostile to the rest of Christendom. If his heart
turns toward the whole body of believers, he loses his interest in his own
church, and very probably will be cast out of it as a renegade.
The various benevolent and reformatory associations of modern times, have
greatly multipUed the distractions of the religious world. The leading chur-
ches of this countny committed a suicidal act Avhen they set the example, in
the formation of the Bible and Missionary Societies, of instituting semi-reli-
gious associations separate from the regular church organizations. That
example has been followed till now almost every department of moral enter-
prise has an organization of its own, and the proper business of the churches
is nearly all taken out of their hands. And these moral organizations are
not merely independent of the churches, but more or less hostile to them.
Of course all who are members of churches, and at the same time adherents
of the societies, are in a '
strait betwixt two.' Their rehgion draws them one
way, and their zeal for moral enterprises another. How many have been
seduced from their church-allegiance by their attachment to the Temperance
and Antislavery associations ! And then even if a man's heart is not divided
between his church and the reforms—if he has gone quite over to the new
societies, he is still distracted by the multiplicity of independent enterprises
which claim his devotion. Temperance, Moral Reform, Antislavery, Non-
resistance—each a kingdom of itself—demand his allegiance. He has but
one heart, and he must either give it to one of them and become ^
a man of
one idea,' or coquet with them all.
A true man would wish to be a loyal servant of all good interests—to be at
the same time a Christian, a patriot, and a friend of every kind of reform.
And this he might be, if religion, politics and morality, were embodied in
one organization. But we know nothing more hopeless and heart-distracting
than to attempt, in the present state of the w^orld, to gratify a propensity to
universal philanthropy, by surrendering one's self to the various organizations
which occupy the field of human interests. Whoever makes this attempt wiil
surely experience the worst woes of polygamy. He will find himself married
to a dozen or more of independent and quarreling wives. The most he can
do, will be to dally with them all. He can be a husband to none.
446 PEACE PRINCIPLES.
This state of things cannot last for ever. Whether we look at prophecy,
or the nature of the case and the signs of the times, we see clearly that God
is coming into the field ; and that when he comes, '
all things, both which are
in heaven and which are on earth, will be gathered together in one,' or, as it
is in the original, ' will be reduced under one head.'' Eph. 1: 10. The God
of heaven will set up a kingdom which will comprehend and unite all the in-
terests which are now under the supervision of civil governments, churches,
reform societies, communities, &c. We put it to the consciences of those who
are waiting for that kingdom, whether, in going out of the present state of
things to meet its coming, their first step is not to withdraw, and stand aloof
from all the associations, new and old, which occupy its destined place ? It
is not to be hoped with reason, that any of the existing organizations will grow
to be the kingdom of God. As well might we expect that a bramble will
grow to be an oak. The initial principle of all-comprehensive unity which we
have spoken of, is not in them, and never will grow out of them. Let us
then leave them, and, standing alone if need be, but in a readiness for co-
operation with God and man at the appointed time, wait patiently for the uni-
versal, everlasting kingdom. '
Say ye not, A confederacj^ to all them to
whom this people shall say, A confederacy.'' All confederacies but one are
destined to extinction ; and that one is not yet manifested in this world. Let
us resolve to join that confederacy or none.
§ Q5. PEACE PRINCIPLES.
The true scriptural peace-principle is, not that punishment of wrong doing
is in itself unjustifiable, but that it is the proper office of God, as supreme
governor, to inflict such punishment ; and that it is wrong for individuals to
take the law into their own hands. 'Avenge not yourselves, but rather give
place unto wrath ; for it is written. Vengeance is mine: I will repag, saith
the Lord.'' Rom. 12: 19. The same Jesus that directed his disciples, as in-
dividuals, to resist not evil, to bless their enemies, and do good to their per-
secutors, also assured them that God their king would 'avenge them speedily.'
Luke 18: 8. He who suffered himself to be '
led as a lamb to the slaughter,'
that he might fulfill all righteousness as an individual and a subject, also pre-
dicted to his oppressors, in the midst of their cruelty and of his submission,
that the time was coming when he would be seen '
sitting at the right hand
of power ' as their king and judge, and when they would call on the rocks
and mountains to hide them from his wrath. Matt. 26: 64 ; Luke 23: 30.
The non-resistance which was inculcated on the primitive church by the apos-
tles, was constantly mingled with promises of the speedy advent of a kingdom
in which ' every man should be rewarded according to his works'—the wick-
ed with destruction, as well as the righteous with eternal life. 2 Thess. 1:
6—0.
PEACE PRINCIPLES. 447
The appropriate effect of peace principles thus combined with anticipations
of ultimate and legitimate vengeance, is not to eradicate from the human
mind the natural sentiments of anger against wrong doing, and desire of
retribution, but to subject them to the control of God-like patience, and turn
them from the lawlessness of individual violence, into the safe channel of gov-
ernmental authority. Unresisting submission to injury under the influence
of these principles, is a manifestation not of that supine indifference to wTong,
and morbid undiscriminating good nature, which many seem ambitious to at-
tain, but of courageous confidence in the supremacy and justice of God's gov-
ernment, and of that self-controlling wisdom in resentment, which patiently
seeks the award of justice to its enemies in the surest and most effectual w^ay.
It is not the object of the non-resistance of the Bible to stifle the salutary
energy of destructiveness, but to curb its action till long-suffering mercy has
finished its effort, and then give it scope and answer its demands in the most
satisfactory manner, by engaging the majest}^ of government in its redress.
The simple principle that the power of making war and inflicting punish-
ment belongs to government and not to individuals, that vengeance in itself
is not wrong, but that it is wrong when it emanates from private resentment,
and right when it emanates from the authority of public justice, will be found
a safe guide through all the difficulties and apparent contradictions of Bible
morality in relation to resistance and non-resistance of enemies.
This principle, in the first place, places all men under the general rule of
total abstinence from war, either individual or national, offensive or defensive.
Assuming that men, either as individuals or nations, are merely subjects of
the divine government, not clothed with official authority, it is plainly reason-
able that they should abstain from any violent private assertion of their own
rights, and rely on the justice and omnipotence of the government that is
over them for protection. This is nothing more than human governments
require of their subjects, with the consent and obedience of all good citizens.
To one who practically believes there is a Theocratic government over the
world, the precepts, •
resist not evil,' avenge not yourselves,' &c., addressed
to men as subjects of that government, are as rational as the municipal reg-
ulations of civilized communities which forbid duelling, private brawls, and
illegal assaults on persons or property.
On the other hand, our principle, as it allows the supreme government to
make war and inflict punishment, obviously does not preclude it from em-
ploying human agents in these operations. Men may lawfully do as officers
and executioners, what they may not do as private citizens. As the general
truth however is, that men are private citizens, and the possession of official
authority is the exception, it is required that the exception should be proved
and a divine commission produced, whenever men claim exemption from
the general command to abstain from violence. The exception was proved
a divine commission w^as produced in the sight of the whole world when Mo-
ses and Joshua, at the head of the armies of Israel, made war on the nations
of Canaan. We justify that war therefore, in perfect consistency with i\iQ
peace-principles of the New Testament, and without resorting to any obscure-
theory of change of dispensation, or leaving any ground of imputing mutable
448 PEACE PRINCIPLES.
morality or policy to tlie divine government. The legitimacy of that war
stands on the same basis as the legitimacy of the war which God will make
on the wicked at the final judgment. It was a war carried on by the supreme
government, in which men were authorized agents.
The fact that a judgment is predicted, and that God, throughout the Bible,
claims the right of inflicting final punishment on the incorrigible, proves that
the peace-principles of the New Testament announced no radical change in
the constitutional powers and poHcy of God's empire, and that they appertain
only to the limited period appropriated to the efforts of mercy. Moreover,
the fact that angels, and even men, according to the predictions of scripture,
are to be employed as judges and executioners in the final judgment, proves
that those principles are only regulations of private conduct, and do not ex-
clude created beings from exercising, as public officers, the punitive functions
of the supreme government.
With these views, we have no occasion to make the distinction which is
sometimes made, between offensive and defensive wars. The supreme au-
thority of the universe has as good right to make offensive as defensive war
and men have as good right to serve him in the one as in the other. The
wars of Moses w^ere offensive. Yet according to our previous reasoning, we
justify both the divine government that directed them, and the human agents
that carried them on. And on the other hand, men have no more right to
make defensive than offensive war, without divine authority. The peace
precepts of the New Testament are specially and almost exclusively directed
against defensive war. '
If a man smite thee on the right cheek, turn to
him the other also.'
Nor have we occasion to distinguish, so far as morality is concerned^ be-
tween the use of spiritual and carnal weapons. This distinction, though much
insisted upon by modern non-resistants, is evidently frivolous ; since God,
from whom alone men derive the right to make war in any way, has as good
right to make war with physical as with spiritual agencies. He did employ
physical agencies in the wars of Moses, and has as good right to do so now
as he had then. If this example is objected to, as belonging to an extinct
dispensation, we may refer to the example of Christ himself, who used a
'
scourge of sm^ll cords,' in driving the buyers and sellers from the temple.
John 2: 15. Small as the instance may seem, it is enough to show that
Christ had no scruples, on the score of morality, in respect either to making
offensive war, or to the use of material implements. Paul does indeed speak
disparagingly of carnal Aveapons ; (2 Cor. 10: 4 ;) but evidently not with
reference to the morality of using them. He preferred spiritual agencies to
carnal, not because it is necessarily wrong to use the latter, but because the
former are '
mighty through Gfod.^ As fire-arms are more effectual than
bows and arrows, so the spiritual sword which is the word of God, is mightier
for the purposes which Paul had in view, than any material instruments of
war. He used the word carnal in other instances in a way that shows there
is no moral evil necessarily included in its meaning ;
(e. g. Rom. 15: 27 ;
< If the Gentiles have been made partakers of their spiritual things, their duty
is also to minister unto them in carnal things.' See also ICor. 9; 11.) It
PEACE PRINCIPLES.
'
449
is no more necessarily immoral to use carnal weapons than to use carnal food
or carnal money. Besides, if Paul did not use carnal weapons, he did use
spiritual weapons in such a Avay, in one instance at least, as to inflict carnal
injury ; to wit, when he sent blindness on Elymas the sorcerer. Acts 13: 11.
In like manner Peter, by the sword of the word inflicted capital punishment
on Ananias and Sapphira. However unwise it may be ordinarily for believ-
ers to resort to physical violence, it is plain that any attempt to make a
moral distinction between carnal and spiritual weapons, or between inflictions
on the body and those on the soul, is frivolous, simply because God only can
give right to use any kind of weapons, or inflict any kind of injury ; and he
as the creator and owner of heaven and earth, of body and soul, has as per-
fect right to use and to direct others to use either material or spiritual imple-
ments, as he has to ' destroy both body and soul in hell.'
Our principle leads to the conclusion that all the ordinary wai-s betweeik
the nations of the world, are no better than lawless and murderous private ^
brawls. The parties rarely pretend, and never prove, that they act as oflS-
cial servants of the divine government. They fight confessedly, not by order
of the supreme authority, and for the maintenance of universal justice, but on
their own responsibility, and for private purposes, either of national aggran-
dizement or defense. Such fighting, when it occurs between individuals or
clans, under ordinary civil governments, is called a riot. The parties are
liable to prosecution for breach of the peace, and contempt of the municipal
authorities. With equal reason a brawl between two nations should be regar-
ded as a riot, breach of the peace, and contempt of the authority of God. It
implies that there is on both sides either no cognizance of the general govern-
ment which God has established over the woiTd, or no loyalty to it, and no
confidence in its power and justice> The fact that nations deem it necessary
to settle their diiferences, like savages, by mutual slaughter, evinces that the
w^orld, as a whole, is, in its own view. 2}ractically in a state of savage anarchy..
While individuals and towns and provinces have governments over them to
which they can look for civilized justice, the nations of the w^orld, recognizing
no common arbiter, are in as barbarous condition as were the independent
robber barons of feudal times, whose only law was * the law of the strongest,*
and whose only check was their fear of each other. ' The law of nations,'
as it is called, never can redeem the world from this reproach, since that
code, however just may be its precepts, has no substantial penalty or executor,
and in practice has never been found an efieetual barrier against the lawless-
ness of powerful and angry nations. ^
In seeking a cure for the evils of ordinary war, it is important that we
discern clearly and exactly where the essence of its wrongfulness lies. Guided
by the principles which have been discussed, we say that the wrong lies, not
in the fact of its being, in any particular case, offensive instead of defensive
war—not in its employment of carnal instead of spiritual weapons—not in its
assailing the body, rather than the mind—not in the injustice of its object,
(for in many cases nations have good ground of hostility, and good claim of
redress,)—not in the suffering w^hich it produces, (for suffering may be de-
served as in the case of the Canaanites, and as at the day of judgment,)— ^
4.M PEACE PniNCIPLES.
^ in a word, not in any of the details of its execution, but in the tNBELlEy
back of it which bhnds the whole world to the reality and reliableness of the
government of God, and which thus leaves to nations no resource for defense,
but private and of course illegitimate war. If there were no God, no com-
mon arbiter, no supreme court of appeal for the nations, many of the wars-
that have been made from time to time, so far as we can see, would be justi-
fiable. For instance, we cannot doubt that the object which our fathers
sought and won in the Revolution, was a good one, and great enough to
warrant the sacrifices which were made for it. Keither do we object to its
physical nature. The fault we find with it is, that it was an illegitimate war,
undertaken on human responsibility, unauthorized by any provable order ot
the divine government. In view however of the universal and long-settled
notions and habits of the world in regard to voluntary war, we are not bound
to press our charge against such wars as that of the Revolution very rigor'
ously. ' The days of this ignorance God winked at.' Paul verily thought
he did God service in persecuting the church, and though he was mistaken,
yet he found mercy because he did it '
ignorantly in unbeUef.' On this
principle we are at liberty and are disposed to deal charitably with the names
of our fathers, and of all in every age who have fought for what they believed
to be the rights of man. Yet the time must come when God will '
call on
all men every where to repent' of the deeds done in times of ignorance ; and
when that time comes it will be found that the essence of the criminality of
the wars in which the nations have been engaged, lies in the unbehef and
consequent anarchy of the world, and that all wars, whether for good or evil
purposes, that have been carried on under the shroud of that unbelief and
^ anarchy, have shared in that criminality.
''
The conclusion from these views is, that we are to look for the termination
of the wars of the world, not to a voluntary congress and agreement of nations,
nor to the labors of Quakers, peace societies, and non-resistants,-—so long as
their efforts are directed mainly to the object of proclaiming the horrors of
war and the immorality of using carnal weapons,—but to the promulgation
of that gospel which brings man nigh to God, and lifts him out of the anarchy
of unbelief into the light and order of the eternal government. When the
\ nations shall feel the pressure, and rely on the protection, of a strong general
government, such as already exists in the upper regions of the spiritual world,
and is destined, in spite of the unbehef of men and enmity of devils, to '
come
down from God out of heaven,' they will cease from war for the same reason
as that by which individuals are deterred from murderous private brawls, un-
der the pressure and protection of ordinary civil governments. The declar-
y ation '
Vengeance is mine, I will repay, saith the Lord,' will then be effec-
tual, as a threat to the strong, and as a promise to the weak. God will take
his stand as an armed mediator between the jarring kingdoms, and the whole
earth will be quiet before him. Then will appear the true '
congress of
nations' described in the glorious words of Isaiah :—' The mountain of the
Lord's house shall he established in the top of the mountains^ and shall he
exalted above the lulls ; and all nations shall fioiv unto it. And manypeo-
^le shall go and say^ Comeyey and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord,
PRIMARY REFORM. 451
t& the home of the God of Jacob ; and he will teach us of Ms wai/s, and we
will walk in his paths : for out of Zlon shall go forth the law^ and the word
of the Lordfrom Jerusalem. And he shall judge among the nations^ and
shall rebuke many ])^ople ; and they shall beat their swords into ploivshares
and their spears into p>runing-hooks : nation shall not lift up sivord against
nationy neither shall they learn war any more.^
§ ^^, THE PRIMARY REFORM.
* Out of the heart of men, proceed evil thoughts, adulteries, fornications,
^^
murders, thefts, covetousiiess, wickedness, deceit, lasciviousness, an evil eye,
blasphemy, pride, foolishness.' Mark 7: 21, 22. The list of evils here men-
tioned, embraces directly or indirectly all the abominations against which the
various reform societies are laboring. As these evils have their common
centre in the heart, it is manifest that the efforts of all classes of reformers
will be thoroughly successful only when they shall be directed effectually
toward that centre. The reform of the heart must precede all sound reforms
of externals. It follows then that among all the moral enterprises of the day,
that cause which aims directly at the renovation of the heart, should be the
centre around which all specific reforms should range themselves, and to the
furtherance of which all their forces should converge. We submit it to the
candor of all thinking laborers in the field of philanthropy, whether the gos-
pel of salvation from sin is not the true agency of heart reform ; and whether
it ought not therefore to be acknowledged and sustained by Temperance men,
Abolitionists, Moral Reformers, Peace-men, Physioligists, Associationists, and
all other combatants of specific evils, as the central and ascendant cause.
It is manifest that Temperance can never win a complete and permanent
victory in the present state of human nature. If it gains ' three feet upward
every day,' it shps back at least '
two feet every night.' MiUions sign the
pledge, but hardly thousands or even hundreds keep it. Again and again
have the zealous Temperance men in all our towns been driven to the secret
conviction, if not the open acknowledgment, that an Anti-lying Society is
needed as the antecedent and basis of the Temperance Society. The unre-
generate heart is in very deed, ' deceitful above all things and desperately
wicked.' How can the fidehty and truthfulness necessary to the efficacy of
the Temperance pledge, be expected from it ? Popular religion has no pow-
er to mend the case, for it declares that all hearts, regenerate and unregen^
erate, are '
deceitful above all things and desperately wicked ;' and there it
leaves us, neither presenting or allowing any hope of better hearts ^
in this
world. The 7th chapter of Romans is the only standard of experience licensed
by the clergy ; and that is the very standard of drunkards and pledge-
breakers. We say thou with all assurance, that the Temperance cause hka
452 PRIMARY REFORM.
no permanent vitality, and, so lon^ as moral fidelity shall be essential to its
success, never can have, until an effectual medicine shall be found for the
diseased hearts of the people ; and this medicine can only be found in that
gospel which substitutes for the moral impotence of the 7th of Romans, sal-
vation from all sin, now and forever.
The same deficiency of moral basis Is observable in the working of all
those reforms which, like Temperance, have for their object the abolition of
personal vices. The abandonment of false dietetic habits, lasciviousness,
and all other forms of sensuality, requires an energy of will which the mass
of the people have not, and never will have, under the 7th-of-Romans ad-
ministration. Moral reformers and physiologists may run to and fro, and
hioivledge of the ' natural laws' may be increased ad infinitum^ and still
there will be no radical and lasting reform—nothing but the fitful and back-
sliding righteousness of the revival system, till men get power to will
healthily as well as to see clearly. That power belongs only to a sound heart;
and soundness of heart comes only by that grace which saves from all sin.
So the social reforms, of which abolitionism is the most prominent repre-
sentative, sadly need soundness of heart to work ivith, and to work upon.
We fully believe that the mass of the people in this country are convinced
that American slavery is a sin against God and man. '
But (says a church-
trained conscience) what then ? Sin is not a very dreadful affair. Every
body sins. The church and clergy sin. The best of men sin in thought,
word and deed, continually. Is sin to be turned out of the world ? Certainly
not till it is turned out of the pulpit, the church, and other respectable places.
It is as much the privilege of nations to sin, as of individuals—and more, if
any thing.' What does it avail to expound the wrongfulness of slavery to
consciences that think in this way, and to wills that are paralized by such
thinking ? Let it be understood that sin is to be actually turned out of the
world,—and let aboHtionists begin the business in themselves and work at it
till they have established in the heart of the nation a new moral standard, by
which all sin shall be branded with infamy and set apart for the curse of
heaven, and slavery will soon be at the mercy of their arrows, stripped of its
harness.
The false religions of the country frustrate abolitionism not only by filling
the spiritual atmosphere with the smoke of the 7th chapter of Romans, but
by direct opposition. Tlie abolitionists say themselves that the churches are
the chief bulwarks of slavery—the strongest barrier which their cause has to
encounter. To them therefore the most vital question is, How are the
churches to be overthrown ? We answer confidently,—not by mere direct
competition or assault, but by bringing forth the true religion against them.
The religious department of human nature is the very '
sanctuary of strength.'
The instincts of men demand a religion with more energy than they demand
any thing else. Mere moral and benevolent enterprises can never satisfy
this demand; and therefore they can never compete successfully with the reli-
gious systems which have possession of the market. When abolitionists make
a direct issue with the churches, and the abstract question whether philan-
thropy or religion should have the precedence, is presented to the people, the
PRIMARY REFORM. f -*. 453
cliurclies have the advantage, because all true instinct decides that they are
in the light. Religion is rightfully the centre, and not the satellite of phi-
lanthropy. ' The fear of the Lord is the hefjinning oi wisdom.' Love is the
child of faith. Veneration is in truth, as it is in the brain, higher than benev-
olence. So the mere pulling-down system will never avail against the churches.
Men will instinctively, and we might say reasonably, cling to a very corrupt
religion, rather than have no religion at all. The true policy then, as well
as the duty of abolitionists, is to arm themselves for conflict with the churches,
by receiving true religion to their hearts and giving it the avowed ascendan-
cy over all their movements. Then the issue will be, not between false reli-
gion and a secondary enterprise of benevolence or no religion at all, but be-
tween false religion and true religion. Let the gospel of holiness, with all
its Bible-armor, be brought into the field to lead the van of the anti-slavery
host, and their lingering contest with the churches will soon be decided.
It is possible that slavery will soon be overthown in this country,—but not
by mo7'al influences. Political jealousy is eyeing it fiercely, and meditating
its destruction. If it perishes by the stroke of political and physical power,
what real gain, we may ask, will accrue to philanthropy ? We will say no-
thing about the possible convulsions and horrors of the catastrophe ; but if
slavery's fountain, the selfish heart, is not changed, not a tittle of the inner
store of human cruelty will be annihilated. Oppression in some other form,
equivalent to slavery, will take its place. So long as the issues of the world's
heart are ' murder, theft, covetousness,' the strong will surely enslave the
weak, in fact, if not in form. Can true philanthropists content themselves
with labors which only shift the mode, but touch not the vitality of social evil ?
If abolitionists desire the actual and permanent triumph of their princiiyle^
they must, first of all, set the battle in array against the devil's slavery ;
'emancipation FROM ALL sin' must be their watchword. Evil will never
begin to die at the root^ until it is exposed to 4he heart-purging power of the
gospel of hohness. Then, and not till then, that true reform which has no
draw-back will be begun.
Association puts forward the most confident and plausible pretension to the
honor of being the all-comprehensive, and therefore primary reform. But it
confesses that good men are essential as its antecedents ; and this amounts to
a confession that the reform ivhich makes good inen must go before it. It is
related that a vagrant once called at a house by the wa,yside, and told the
people that he was not a beggar, but he merely wanted the loan of a kettle
to make some 'stone soup' for his dinner. They granted his request, and
the more readily, because they were curious to learn the method of making
a soup that cost nothing. He gathered a few stones, and putting water to
them, hung them over the fire. As the people watched the boiling of the
pot, he observed in a careless way that a little salt, if it was at hand, would
improve the soup somewhat. Accordingly they put in some salt. After a
while, he suggested that a handful or two of flour would not be amiss. So a
good thickening of flour was added. Finally, he said if they had any spare
meat-bones about, it would be well enough to put them in ; not that tliey
were necessary at all, but they would improve the flavor. The people, wish-
454 PRIMARY REFORM.
ing to give the experiment every advantage, put in a number of rich bones ;
and when at last they were allowed to taste of the ' stone soup,' to their as-
tonishment they found it excellent ! We think of this story when we hear
Associationists vaunting the all-redeeming power of their system, and yet ask-
ing for good men to begin with. If they can find means to put the salt of
brotherly love, i\\Q flour of industrious and enterprising habits, and the meat-
hones of wealth and good morals into their pot, we have no doubt that their
' stone soup' will be very good.
It is too evident to need demonstration that religious unity must be the
basis of all other valuable and permanent unities. Fourierists talk much
about the necessity of ''congeniality* in those who attempt Association. But
what congeniality can there be without unity of religious faith ? Is not reli-
gion pre-eminently an ' affair of the heart ?' When two young persons of
different and hostile religious sentiments associate for matrimonial life, do not
all sagacious friends fear that their congeniality will prove to be only ' skin
deep ?' Experience has already proved that all the advantages and attrac-
tions of Association are not able to draw its votaries out of their respective
religious orbits, or to prevent the collisions incident to a system which brings
independent spheres so near that their orbits constantly cross each other. If
Fourier expected to introduce harmony into human society without first estab-
lishing religious unity, we are bold to say that he was a superficial philoso-
pher, ignorant of human nature, and of the true doctrine of unity.
Association can escape the evils resulting from reUgious differences, only
in one of two ways. It must either select for its experiments none but those
who have no heart-religion, and care nothing about it, or it must address it-
self to the task of developing a religion which shall prove itself sti-ong enough
to supersede all others and reconcile all honest hearts. The former of these
ways is the shortest and easiest, and seems to suit the hasty genius of the
Fourier enthusiasm best. But we are sure that the latter will be found the
safest and most economical in the long run. We regard the establishment of
rehgious unity as entirely feasible. Let the gospel of holiness do its work in the
lieart, and sin, the radical cause of all religious differences, will be taken
;away. Let men truly join themselves to the Lord, and they will have one
spirit ; and unity of spirit will lead to unity of faith.
We are confident that reformers generally feel the want of what the Fou-
rierists call ' organization of industry'—we mean the organization of the dif-
ferent branches of reform. If unity of purpose and harmonious distribution
into series and groups is desirable in physical labor, how much more is it to
be desired in the higher moral movements which are in progress. But unity
imphes a central and presiding power. Accordingly, the classes that are in-
terested in the various reforms have long been instinctively groping about for
some generic principle back of them all, and combining the strength of all.
One cause after another has been proclaimed by its more ardent advocates
the rightful centre of unity. But the world of refoim is yet a ' chaos with-
out form and void.' The king-bee has not been found, and the swarm is fly-
ing to and fro without concert or aim. The considerations which have been
presented in the preceding survey of the reform field, embolden us to nomi-
LEAI)INGS OF THE SPIRIT. 455
nate the gospel of salvation from sin as a candidate for the primacy. That
gospel and the reform-spirit were born and bred side by side. Were they
not made for each other ? Was not the match between the religion of the
one and the morality of the other made in heaven ? We believe assuredly
that '
the stone which the builders have rejected, will yet be the head of the
corner.'
§ 67. LEADINGS OF THE SPIRIT.
We have not a doubt that believers are now, as they were in the times of
the primitive church, directed more or less by the Spirit, in respect to their
outward movements. And by this we mean, not merely that their judgments
are guided, or that they are assisted in choosing their course by the openings
of Providence^ but that that they are inclined to go this way or that, or to
do such and such things, by a spiritual force which operates like instinct.—
It will be sufficiently evident from the tenor of the doctrines of this book, that
we are not despisers of such leadings. Yet w^e are obHged to confess that
we have seen many and monstrous abuses growing out of the practice of
thinking and talking much about instinctive impulses ; and we propose in the
present article to bring to light some of those abuses, and to suggest some
cautions on this subject to those who need them.
1. The mere fact that we are under the sensible influence of some spirit^
and that we are directed in a supernatural manner to go or to do thus and
so, is not to be taken for evidence that w^e are under the influence of the
Spirit of Cfod. Other spirits can operate on our instincts as w^ell as the good
spirit. It is known to all who have witnessed the phenomena of Mesmerism^
that a mere human spirit can entirely control an impressible person, leading
him about by blind impulse, causing him to think, desire, and will, at the
pleasure of the magnetizer. It is not to be doubted, therefore, that the
*
gods many and lords many' of the invisible world, have the power of leading
human wills. We gather from the narrative in Luke 22: 3, that Judas was-
led by an instinctive impulse from the devil to go to the chief priests and
betray Christ. Indeed it is expressly said in 2 Tim. 2:26, that they who
are in the devil's snare, are '
taken caijtive hy Mm at his wilL^ Many of
the vilest impostors we have ever met with, were most abundant in their
professions of being led by the Spirit, and doubtless actually were led in a
very wonderful manner by a spirit, though not by the Spirit of which they
professed to be the subjects. So also many well-meaning persons have af-
firmed that they were led by the Spirit of God to perform unreasonable,
scandalous and pernicious acts ; and we see no reason to deny their sincerity
in this Affirmation, or the reality of the impulses under which they acted ;
but we do not therefore admit or believe that the spirit which led them was
really the Spirit of God. Every one who has had much spiritual experience^
456 LEADINGS OF THE SPIRIT.
must have met with instances of contradictory leadings—cases in which,
either the same person was led to do certain things and then to undo them,
or different persons were led in opposite and irreconcilable courses. It is
impossible, on any rational grounds, to ascribe such clashing directions to the
operation of one spirit. God certainly does not contradict himself. It is
manifest therefore, that in such instances there is an evil spirit leading, on
one side or the other. The sensation or experience of the subject in all cases
of spiritual leading is probably the same, and accordingly is spoken of in the
same terms by all. If a man says, ' The Lord told me to do thus and so,'
we need not doubt his sincerity, or the reality of his spiritual impressions in
the case, but we may reasonably doubt till we ha^e other proof than his as-
sertion, whether it was the Lord who produced those impressions, or some
other spirit ; for it is certain that there are as many kinds of leading powers
that put ' Thus saith the Lord' into the mouths of their agents, as there are
independent and hostile spirituahsts in the world. It is plain, therefore, that
a man ought not to lay to heart the ' flattering unction' that he is on good
terms with God, merely because he is led by a spirit in a supernatural man-
ner ; and also that believers ought not for such a reason only, to place confi-
dence in spiritualists who come among them.
The fact that a man habitually ascribes, his actions and teachings to a su-
pernatural influence, may be taken as some proof that he is a spiritualist, in
distinction from a mere carnalist; and so far it is in his favor. But since
there are bad as well as good spiritualists, and the bad are quite as forward
in proclaiming that Hhe Lord told them to do this and that,' as the good, we
are bound to require other tests of the presence of God's spirit than the mere
affirmation or behef of the individual, or even our own certainty that he is led
and taught by some kind of inspiration. Spirits are to be tried and proved
as well as other things ; and the mere fact that a spirit has the power of lead-
ing even with superhuman foresight and accuracy, is not sufficient proof that
it is trust-worthy. We must seek the radical distinction between true and
false spirits, in their inqral characters and not in their j97i?/S2<?aZ powers. We
need not fear to trust as divine any spirit which evinces to our consciousness
or to sufficient observation, that it crucifies Sfilf and enthrones Jesus Christ
but without full evidence of this, all manifestations of the leading or wonder-
working power are to be counted as nothing.
2. Admitting that a man is really led by the Spirit of God, yet if his lea-
dings are only of the external kind, such as to go or do thus and so, they are
no evidence that he is born of God. The prophets under the Jewish dispen-
sation, before regeneration came, were led by the Spirit in a great variety
of external ways, and quite as wonderfully as any can pretend to be at the
present time. Moreover, many of the most notable examples of spiritual
leadings mentioned in the New Testament, such as those of Philip, and Peter,
(Acts 8: 26—39, and 11: 12,) occurred during the transition period of re-
generation, previous to the actual attainment of the new birth by the primi-
tive church. The various external gifts of the Spirit (leadings among the
rest) abounded in that church from the day of Pentecost forward ; but the
second birth was a later blessing. Aud we have plain intimations that those
LEADINGS OP THE SPIRIT. 457
external gifts—even miracles, for instance, and certainly therefore such minor
mauifestatioiis as local leadings—were not necessarily linked to righteousness
or regeneration, but were bestowed on many who had finally no part or lot
in the kingdom of Christ. (See Matt. 7: 22, 1 Cor. 13: 1—3, &c.)
When Paul speaks of being ' led by the Spirit,' and makes this the test of
sonship, as in Rom. 8: 14, and Gal. 5: 18, we must not narrow down his
meaning so as to make him refer merely to the specific directions which the
Spirit sometimes gives men about going to certain places or doing certain
things. To be led by the Spirit in the largest sense of the expression^ is in-
deed to be a son of God ; but that sense includes something far more impor-
tant than petty directions about traveling, speaking, &c. The sons of God
are led by the Spirit, not merely as to their locomotive powers, and physical
utterance, but as to their hearts and understandings. A man may sit per-
fectly still, not uttering a word, or in any way operating externally, and yet
be led by the Spirit in that sense which is essential to regeneration. His
heart may be led out of the regions of spiritual wickedness, into fellowship
with the Father and the Son. His understanding, under the guidance of
heavenly influence, may traverse the vast expanse of spiritual truth. He
may .'
run and not be weary, and walk and not faint,' on 'the way of holiness.'
The most important leadings of the Spirit have no reference whatever to ex-
ternal operations. The sphere in which they act is not the physical, but the
spiritual and intellectual world. Paul says '
as many as are led by the Spirit
of God, they are the sons of God.' In what manner are they led ? What
are they led to do ? In the preceding verse (Rom. 8: 12) we are informed.
They are led, not to do bodily deeds, but to ^mortify the deeds of the body ;'
i. e., they are led into spiritual fellowship with Christ crucified, where they
get power to become spiritually minded, and to subdue their physical nature.
This is a leading of the heart and spirit,—not of the external faculties. So
when Paul says, ' If ye be led of the Spirit ye are not under the law,' (Gal.
6: 18,) it is manifest from what follows, that he refers to generic internal
leadings. As the flesh leads to 'adultery, fornication, uncleanness,' &c., so
the apostle's doctrine is that the Spirit leads (not chiefly in a physical way,
as a man leads a horse from place to place, but) to ' love, joy, peace, long-
sufiering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance.' They whose
hearts are led by the Spirit into these things, are born of God, whether they
have any wonderful operations in their instincts of locomotion, utterance, &c.,
or not. And on the other hand, they who are led by the hand or the foot
or the tongue, or by the instincts connected with these physical parts, and
not by the heart and understanding, are not born of God, however palpable
and w^onderful may be the guidance to which they are subject.
It will be obvious that the leadings of the Spirit esteemed essential to re-
generation in the primitive church, must have been of the internal kind which
we have indicated, if we consider that the mass of believers wxre so situated
as to their external condition of life, that the specific guidance of the Spirit,
in relation to what they should do or where they should go, could not be ap-
plied to them. The apostles and other similar floating laborers, were fit sub-
jects of occasional specific external directions. But 3ic majority of the dis-
57
45B LEADINGS OP THE SPIRIT.
cipleg were In fixed conditions, employed in stationary business, having tlie'
Ordinary routine duties of fathers, wives, children, slaves, &c., to perform.
And the general order to them was—' Let every man abide in the calling
wherein he is called.' What room could there be in the case of a slave, for
instance, for much external leading of the instinctive or supernatural kind ?
As to his physical operations, instead of being led by the Spirit, he was bound
to be led by a human master. Yet his situation was no hindrance to his be-
ing born of God, and therefore no hindrance to his being led by the Spirit,
in the true sense of the expression. The essential leadings are adapted to
every possible external condition. They are the necessary effects of the Spirit's
possession of the heart, and manifest themselves in the general, moral and
intellectual character. Any other leadings than these must not be exalted
into matters of primary importance, or relied on as marks of regeneration,
but must be classed with the ' gifts,' which may be present or absent without
determining radical character.
3. There are different kinds of external leadings of the Spirit, and some
of them are more valuable than others. Those which are radical^ are more
to be desired than those which are superficial. By radical leadings we mean
those which take effect on the rational and moral faculties, and give direction
to the course by informing the understanding and exciting the deeper sus-
ceptibilities. Superficial leadings are those which take effect on the external
feelings, and operate in the manner of mere instinct. It is supposable that
God may persuade a man to a given course either by convincing his under-
standing that it is expedient, or by impelling him toward it by a blind instinct.
In either case God would lead him. Now which of these kinds of leading,
other things being equal, is most desirable ? Unquestionably the first. It is
better that a man should be led as a moral and intellectual being, than as a
mere animal,—better that he should be educated to act in view of rational
motives like a man, than that he should live always under the discipline of
specific directions like a child. It is better that he should be able to give an
acceptable reason for his course, than that he should be obliged to rely for
justification before men, on his own averment that God told him to do thus
and so. Paul earnestly exhorted the primitive believers to allow the under-
standing to take part with the Spirit in their proceedings. 1 Cor. 14. As
he said, '
I will sing with the spirit, and I will sing with the understanding
also,' so we may say, '
We will travel, speak, and in all things act, with the
understanding as well as with the Spirit.' We may be sure that God is not
opposed to, but entirely in favor of, the exercise and cultivation of our ra-
tional powers, as well as our mere animal instincts, in the service of the Spirit.
* In malice be ye children, but in understanding be men.'
Again, it is supposable that God may persuade a man to a certain purpose
by his Spirit, and then allow him to work out that purpose, in its details, ac-
cording to his own judgment without specific directions ; or he may keep
back the purpose in his own mind, and lead the man by blind instinct, opera-
ting step by step, to do what is required for its fulfilment. Which of these
ways is most befitting the position of sons of God ? The leading of the Spirit
is equally real in both cases. The only difference is that in the first case the
K LEADINGS OE THE SPIRIT. 459
Spirit works radically, implanting a purpose, out of whicli a series of specific
acts grow spontaneously ; and in the second case it works superficially, pro-
ducing each specific act by a separate infusion of instinct. The last may be
best for mere servants or children, but the other is certainly the true way of
dealing with grown sons. ' The servant knoweth not what his Lord doeth,'
and of course acts blindly as he is bid. The mere child must be told specifi-
cally what to do and what not to do. But as soon as God's children'^become
capable of forming purposes, as well as of executing details, we may be sure
that he will honor his own nature in them enough to direct them radically,
rather than superficially.
The external leadings of the Spirit, then, considered as ^
gifts,' may be
desired ; but as Paul exhorts believers to '
covet earnestly the best gifts,' so
we should earnestly covet the best leadings. Instinctive directions to do
certain specific things, should be regarded as discipHne specially adapted to
children, and of the least account. Our desire should be that our whole na-
ture may be brought into the service of the Spirit, so that God may avail
himself of our understandings, and the whole range of our susceptibilities,
instead of being obliged to move us about mechanically. We should cultivate
our judgments, and learn as fast as we can to form far-reaching purposes in
the Spirit. We should aspire to be, not merely instruments in the hands of
God, but co-workers with him, acting from the same motives as those in his
mind, and partaking of his intelligence and freedom. And in order that we
may not be hindered from doing this, we must not suffer ourselves to be
hampered by the narrow notions which many spiritualists entertain in relation
to the leadings of the Spirit. There is a theory on this subject which de-
serves the name of antinomianism, in its worst sense—a theory which pre-
cludes all free, manly action, and makes the holders of it mere puppets or
do-nothings. Let us seek out the ' more excellent way' of the primitive
church.
§ 68. THE DOCTRINE OF DISUNITY.
1-1
1 milt
The Perfectionist school at an early period was tainted with the idea that
a sort of '
touch-me-not' independence which precludes the possibihty of unity,
is the prime glory of the gospel of holiness. In the files of The Perfectionist
published at New Haven in 1834—5, many traces of this idea may be found ;
and it becomes quite visible and prominent after about the middle of the first
volume. The presiding spirit announces from time to time, not as a matter
of regi-et and reproof, but with evident complacency, that " Perfectionists,
so called, stand as independent of each other, as they do of any of the anti-
christian churches—they will not be taught of each other, as they are '
all
taught of God ;'.... they differ among themselves on almost all points,
except the great distinguishing one, viz., perfection in holiness.^^
This idea, which we will call the docbdne of disunity^ was developed and
rendered popular among Perfectionists by a variety of causes, some of which
we will briefly mention.
1. Perfectionism Avas an insurrection against the old churches ; and insur-
rections always generate exaggerated theories of independence.
2. A general and undiscriminating reaction against the principles of the
churches, carried many into prejudices against things which are good, as well
as those which are evil. The tendency and strife was to keep clear of every
thing that smelt of the old systems. Confounding the eternal and invaluable
principle of organization, which pervades all things that have life and growth,
with the bondage and hatefuhiess of 'sectarianism,' which were seen and had
been experienced in the churches, the cry was raised and re-echoed—
*Away with all thoughts of organization, mutual dependence, and subordination!
Touch not, taste not, handle not these abominations of Babylon !'
3. Crude notions of the '
liberty of the gospel' and of the ' teachings of the
Spirit,' and an idea that these privileges are incompatible with union and
discipline, contributed to the growth of the doctrine of disunity.
4. Some doubtless joined the standard of Perfectionism, not because they
loved hohness, but because they were weary of the restraints of the duty-doing
churches. Perfectionism presented them a fine opportunity of giving full
swing to carnality, and at the same time, of glorying over the '
servants' un-
der law. Persons of this class are the natural friends of anarchy.
5. Private jealousies in relation to leadership, made some Perfectionist
leaders very fierce against every thing tending to consolidation.
6. All these causes were quickened mto increased activity, by the partial
alliance which took place between Perfectionism and Abolitionism.
The result was what might have been expected, viz., confusion like that of
Babel—enmity like that of Ishmael. Men who expect to scatter, who set no
value on unity, who despise the precepts and example of the primitive church
in relation to organization and mutual dependence, who nourish their hearts
with nothing but centrifugal, insurrectionary principles, who prize individual-
ity and self-will infinitely more than the unity of the body of Christ, and the
DOCTRINE OF DISUNITY. 461
attractions of brotherly love, will necessarily rush into isolation and anarchy,
and stand, each man like a porcupine, with quills of jealousy sticking out in
every direction.
Such, to a great extent, was the state of Perfectionists, at one time ; and
though a change for the better has evidently taken place within a few years,
the leaven of the doctrine of disunity is by no means yet purged out. We
have still many among us who are more afraid of gathering together than of
scattering abroad ; who, in all their communications are more careful to put
in a eaveat against the idea of whole-hearted agreement with a brother, than
to utter an aspiration after oneness of heart and mind ; who seem to think
that Christ's new commandment—the glory of the new covenant—instead of
being 'Love one another,'' should be, 'Take care that you do not lean on one
another ; heware of knitting together ; e^ipecially beware of noimshing, and
being nourished hy, one another f—as if the members of a living body
did not lean, nay, depend on one another, and were not knit together in
inextricable unity, and did not nourish, and receive nourishment from, one
another
Unity cannot be forced, but it may be favored by correct views ; and on
the other hand, it may be hindered by false notions. In spiritual things men
do not attain what they do not expect. Hence the importance of correct the-
ories. The doctrine that men may be saved from sin in this world, is impor-
tant, because without it, salvation from sin is not expected ; and if it is not
expected, it is not sought ; and if it is not sought, it is not attained. So a
true idea of the possibility and value of unity is important, because, without
it, unity will not be expected or sought, and of course will not be attained.
A man who makes it ' the post in the middle' of his religion—the cream of
his creed—that every one is to stand by himself, and that unity is not to be
expected or desired, is in no condition to enter into unity. His theory is a
wall round about him, repulsing the overtures of brotherly love as invasions
of his individuality. On these grounds Ave shall take the liberty to enter our
protest against the doctrine of disunity, and to show that it is not a vital part
or natural accompaniment of Perfectionism, but an incongruous and hostile
parasite, attached to it by the enemy of all righteousness, for the purpose of
drawing off its life.
We aver that every branch of the doctrine of holiness tends to unity.
I. Faith, which is the root of holiness, is an act of union. It joins the life
of the believer to the life of Christ. It draws a man out of his individuality,
and merges self in fellowship with another. It is directly opposed to isolation.
And that which draws a man out of self into partnership with God, necessarily
establishes in his spirit a social principle which draws him toward unity with
his brother. It may safely be affirmed that a sohtary, self-absorbed spirit
has not and cannot have true faith.
II. Holiness itself is essentially a uniting principle. Men may indeed
profess holiness, and talk and argue for the doctrine of holiness, and yet be
IshmaeUtes. But such persons either attach no definite idea to the word holi-
ness, using it only as a party shibboleth, or mean by it merely the negation of
sin. A true definition of the word exposes their emptiness. Holiness is not
4G2 DOCTRINE OF DISUNITY.
a mere watchword, or a negation. It is love. If it were nothing but the ne-
gation of sin, a stone might be called holy. It is conformity to the law, and
the law requires positive love. And the love-principle of holiness looks, not
merely toward God, but toAvard men. It is the love of God shed abroad in
the heart ; and as God loves men, so whoever has God's love in his heart,
loves men. Holiness, then, is an attracting, harmonizing principle. Its ten-
dency is to make all who possess it, one in heart ; and unity of heart is the
earnest of unity of mind and action. Persons who are in love with each oth-
er, easily learn to think ahke. Love makes them modest in regard to them-
selves, respectful toward one another, patient in discussion, ready to appreci-
ate each other's truths, anxious for agreement. Thus the heart draws the
head after it ; and if the heart is in the truth, the closer the head follows it
the better.
III. The new covenant privilege of being taught and led hy the Spirit^
though it has been perverted, perhaps more than any other principle of Per-
fectionism, into subservience to the doctrine of disunity, is really the strong-
est bond of agreement. Self-willed talkers about hohness seize upon the
doctrine of divine illumination and make great account of it, merely for the
sake of the license which they suppose it gives them to reject all fraternal
teachings and influences, and fortify themselves in jealous individuality of
thought and will. Thus it is made to nourish a spirit of isolation which is
utterly incompatible with even the loosest forms of associate life, to say noth-
ing of the unity of the body of Christ. But let us look at the teachings of
the Spirit from another point of view. Instead of expecting, and thus allow-
ing, antagonism of sentiments among those who profess to be led by the Spirit,
we should assume, from the unity of their guiding influence, that their minds
will converge to a common centre, and that they, above all others, will think
alike and act alike. Men of the world, who walk in the light of '
sparks
which they themselves have kindled,' may be expected to scatter and cross
each other in every direction. But how is it possible that minds under the
same divine influence, having each the one '
mind of Christ,' should disagree?
The unity of their light, the clearness of vision which it gives them, and the
love which goes with it, all tend to make them of one heart, one mind, and
one voice. The instinct of animals is undoubtedly an influx from the spiritual
world, and may illustrate the influences of the Spirit of God. Bees, for in-
stance, are governed in their wonderful operations, not chiefly by the influen-
ces of education, or mutual consultation and direction, or individual self-
motion, butby a common spiritual impulse. Is this a reason why we should
expect anarchy and cross-purposes among them ? Does an individual bee
ever bristle up in the spirit of independence, and say, '
I am taught by the
Spirit, and I must therefore act by myself ; I will not build comb and store
honey in concert with a swarm !'
The truth is, the one spirit that guides the
swarm, is the very element of unity, subordination, and combined labor. So
it must necessarily be with those who are taught and led by the Spirit of God.
Isolation and opposition of thought and will, instead of being the appropriate
results of divine illumination, are the surest proofs that the society in which
they appear, as a whole or m part, is guided by self and the devil. If the
rOCTRlNE OF DISUNITY. 4GS
Spirit of God is one, all who are led by it, and in proportion as they are led
by it, will think and act as one ; and if two individuals professing to be led
by the Spirit, cross each other, it is certain that one or the other of them is
a false pretender.
IV. The doctrine that believers are not under law, has been made the
excuse for anarchy. But it should be borne in mind that the gospel holds
forth no such doctrine bi/ itself. The form of sound words is this
—' Ye are
not under law, hut under grace ;^ and the first half of this declaration, with-
out the last, is nothing. Men are free from law only so far as they are sub-
ject to grace. And what is it to be '
under grace ?' It is a submission of
one's own spirit to the Spirit of Christ. It is a subjection of the flesh to the
spirit, and of the spirit to the will of God. Is there any thing like isolation,
insubordination, and high-headed independence in this ? Is a spirit a less
controlhng power than a law ? or submission to a spirit, a less self-subduing
act than submission to a law ? Nay, the ' touch-me-not' spirit belongs to the
law dispensation, if any where. Submission to grace merges self-will in the
will of another. A behever, above all others, is not ' a wild ass's colt,' that
spurns dominion. Christ has a ' yoke' for his followers, and it binds them to
subordination and co-operation, not less stringently than the yoke of the law.
It is '
easy,' not because it is weak and uncontrolling, but because it carries
a good disposition with it.
V. Crucifixion with Christ is a participation in the spirit which was in
Christ when he was crucified. What kind of a spirit was that ? Hear its
utterance :
' Then said he, Lo, I come to do thy will, God.' '•Not my
tvill, but thine be done.' The spirit of the cross is pre-eminently the spirit
of meekness and subordination. It is death to self-will. From '
the flesh'
proceed ' hatred, variance, emulations, wrath, strife, seditions, heresies, envy-
ings, and such like ;' and in the cross of Christ the flesh is given to the nails
and to the spear. Self-will is the same thing, whether it turns toward God
or toward men. It refuses subordination ; and without subordination there
can be no union with God or man. The cross of Christ, therefore, by destroy-
ing self-will, takes away the principal—we might almost say the only—obsta-
cle to the union of believers. A man who has heartily submitted to God by
the cross, will never refuse submission to any secondary agencies which exist
by the will of God, and are necessary to the execution of his plans. The
uncircumcised spirit of independence which says, '
I submit to God in person,
but not to any subordinate agency,' has not a semblance of the spirit of the
cross. If Christ had thus submitted by halves, he would have said on Cal-
vary, '
I submit to God ; he may do as he pleases with me ; but as to allowing
Pilate and Herod and the Roman soldiers to have charge of me, I will let
loose twelve legions of angels on them first.' This would have been quite a
moderate and excusable exhibition of self-will, in comparison with that of one
who says—' I submit to God in heaven, but not to God in human beings, un-
der any circumstances.' A crucified church, instead of being distinguished
for its proud spirit of individuality, is the very society above all others, in
which the exhortation, ' Submit yourselves one to another,' will find place.
VI. The doctrine that Christ is in believers and that the church is the body
of Christ, calls aloud for the unity of the saints. This doctrine was Paul'a
464 DOCTRINE OP DISUIiriTY.
favorite theme. See what he says in 1 Cor. 12: 12—30, Eph. 4: 16, and
Col. 2: 19, about the intimate union, mutual assistance and subordination, of
the members of Christ. They are ' knit together by joints and bands,' ' fitly
joined together and compacted h^ that which every joint supj^lieth ;' and no
member can say to its fellow, '
I have no need of thee.' They who pride
themselves on having a religion which '
forbids ns to lean on one another,'
will do well to study Paul's theory of anatomy. Who ever heard of a living
body in which the members were isolated from each other, and acted without
concert and mutual help ; in which the brain did not use the service of the
eye, and the eye direct the hand, and the hand minister food to the mouth,
and the mouth to the stomach, and the stomach to the trunk, and the trunk to
the limbs ; in which the nerves were not subject to the brain, and the muscles
to the nerves, and the tendons to the muscles, and the bones to the tendons ?
Unity, concert, and subordination, are the elements of all natural organization,
and were pre-eminently the elements of spiritual organization in Paul's time.
There is no reason to believe that the body of Christ has essentially changed
its mode of existence, or the laws of its growth and action. Certainly it has
not become a mass of severed fragments and particles, acting each one by
itself; for that would be a dead carcase. If the true church is the body of
Christ, there is no true church where there is not compact junction, mutual I
ministration, and organic subordination.
Thus the central doctrines of Perfectionism, one and all, draw with their :
whole force toward unity. Men may talk about them without seeing their •
tendency or feeling their attraction. But such men are mere letter-Perfec-
tionists. ISTo man has received the spm'it of those doctrines, who does not
feel in the yearnings of his heart, and manifest in the travail of his life, the
spirit of Christ's prayer, '
that all who believe may be one ; as thou Father
art in me, and I in thee, that they also may be one in us. I in them and
thou in me, that they may be made perfect in one ; and that the world may
know that thou hast sent me, and hast loved them as thou has loved me.'
John 19: 20—23. It ought to be assumed among us, and it will be assumed,
when experience has developed wisdom, that a man who is jealous for self-
will and self-teaching, and talks largely about his independence of his breth-
ren, and evidently values the liberty of isolation more than love, is no Per-
fectionist. The spirit of such a man is utterly incompatible with that faith'i
which merges self in another—that holiness which is love—that guidance off
the Spirit which makes all who receive it one—that freedom from the law
which is submission to the yoke of grace—that crucifixion with Chiist which
consigns the will of the flesh to death, and that mutual dependence which iS'
essential to the organization of the hody of Christ.
In the name of all the doctrines of Perfectionism, and of all true lovers
of them, we protest against the assumption which has been admitted among
us, that we are always to stand aloof from each other, without organization,
without concert, expecting without regret and allowing without resistance,
differences and dissensions, as if such an Ishmaelitish state were our natural
and peculiar privilege. This assumption is a vile libel on the gospel of
holiness.
y^
.rf^jm^^-^ "i--
§ 69. FIERY DARTS QUENCHED,
BY AN APPEAL TO THE HISTORY OF THE PRIMITIVE CHURCH.
"Beloved, think it not strange concerning the fiery trial which is to try you, as
though some strange thing happened unto you. The same affiictions are accom-
plished in your brethren that are in the world." 1 Pet. 4: 12. 5: 9.
One of the ordeals appointed for the trial of our faith—perhaps the seve-
rest of all—is that through which we pass wlien we witness the treachery and
apostasy of those whom we have regarded as true believers and brethren in
the Lord. As we see one and another of our associates in profession, with-
ering and falling away, we involuntarily exclaim, '
How can it be that men
whose experience has been so notable, and whose testimony has been so ani-
mating, should after all prove to be false-hearted ? What does it mean f—
And then comes the tempter, insinuating suggestions like these :
—' Perhaps
9/ou will fall away in hke manner. How can you have confidence in any who
profess salvation from sin ? The gospel of holiness has not been able to save
many who at first seemed to be its noblest trophies. Why should you not
dou1)t whether it is the true gospel ? May it not be altogether a delusion ?
Is there any such thing as security in holiness V
^^The power of these suggestions to perplex and torment believers, depends
^vthe existence in their minds of certain crude and unauthorized imagina-
tions concerning the eifects which the true gospel, in its operation on the
world, may be expected to produce. If it is assumed that the genuine word
of God must necessarily take permanent root and bear fruit unto eternal life,
in all who seem to receive it with excitement and delight ; and that the Chris-
tian profession in the present state of things must be a holy enclosure into
which '
nothing that defileth' can enter, and from which there can be no de-
sertions ; then the apostasies which have attended the career of the gospel
of salvation from sin, may justly be regarded as evidences of its essen-
tial failure, and as reasons for distrust of ourselves, of our brethren, and
of the fundamental doctrines which we have embraced. Such assumptions,
we believe, will be found lurking in the minds of all who are troubled and
shaken in mind by the spiritual bankruptcies which occur from time to time
among us. We intend to test these assumptions by the instructions and facts
of the New Testament.
f Ave have only the same grace and truth which the primitive church had,
n, unless human nature has changed, or the devil has abdicated his sove-
reignty over it, (which will not be assumed,) we ought to look for only the
same general phenomena in the operation of the gospel now, as attended its
course in the apostolic age. What the wisdom and power of God did then,
we may hope it Avill do now ; and wherein it failed then, we ought to expect
that it will fail now. Let us see then whether the gospel introduced by Christ
and the apostles, saved all who professed to receive it and for a season re-
joiced in it ; and whether the primitive church escaped the ordeal of treach-
ery and desertion.
68
i
i^^ FlERt DARlDS QUENCHED*
I. We Will look at some of the parables of Christ, in which he gives a hird's'
^ye view of the course of the first gospel dispensation. The parable of the
i^wer is in points Christ's explanation of it is sufficient for our purpose :
" The seed is the woi'd of God. Those by the Way-side are they that hear ;
then Cometh the devil, and taketh away the word out of their hearts, lest they
should believe and be saved. They on the rock are they, which, when they hear,
receive the word with joy 5 and these have no root, which for a while believe,
and in time of temptation fall away. And that which fell among thorns are they,
tvhichj when they have heard, go forth, and are choked with cares and riches and
pleasures of this life, and bring no fruit to perfection. But that on the good
ground are they, which, in art honest and good heart, having heard the word, keep
it, and bring forth fruit with patience.'* Luke 8: 11 —15.
On this we observe—-!, Christ represents that/owr classes hear the gos-
pel, but only one class is permanently benefitted by it. 2. Of the three
unfruitful classes, two so far receive the word as to appear, for a time, to be
true believers. 3. One at least of the unfruitful classes receives the word
'
wUh joy;' i. e. has a bright experience and seems to be greatly ' blessed.*
4. The failure of the word in the three cases, does not prove it to be a spu-
rious gospeL 5. The falhng away of the two classes of apparent converts,
does not disprove the security of those who receive the word into ^
good and
honest hearts.*
Again, look at the parable of the net t
"The kingdom of heaven is like unto a net, that Was cast into the sea, and
fathered of every kind : which, when it was full, they drew to shore, and sat
down, and gathered the good into vessels, but cast the bad away* So shall it
be at the end of the world 3 the angels shall come forthj and sever the wicked
from among the just." Matt. 13: 4t—49.
In this representation we perceive that the gospel draws under its influence
and into its profession, bad men as well as good. The time for the full separa*
tion of the true from the false believers j is not during the dispensation of the
gospel, but at the judgment, This truth appears also in the parable of the tares
and wheat. The order of the husbandman is, '
Let both grow together tilt
the harvest.^ Along the whole pilgrimage of the church, therefore, previous
to the judgment, the mischievous works of false brethren are to be expected*
But the presence of the bad fishes is no evidence that there are no good fishes,
or that the net is not a genuine one. The tares prove nothing against the
wheat or the husbandman.
II. We will now pass in review some of the facts in the history of the
primitive church, which exhibit the truth of the preceding representations.
Confining ourselves to that advanced period in the apostolic age, when the ful-
ness of the gospel was certainly known and preached*
Paul informs us that the!re were men in the church who *
caused divisions
and offenses, serving not Christ, but their OTyn belly, by good words and
fair speeches deceiving the simple ;' (Rom. 16: IT ;) that there were ' false
apostlesJ
deceitful workers, transforming themselves into apostles of Christ
;'
(2 Cor. 11: 13 ;) that there were '
false brethren, privily brought in,' to
spy out the liberty of believers ;
(Gal* 2: 4;) that there were those who
I FIERY DARTS QUENCHED. 46T
preached 'another gospel,' and so ^ troubled' the church that they were wor-
thy to be 'cutoff,' and 'accursed;' (Gal. 1: 7, 5: 12 ;) that some 'preached
Christ even of envj and strife, not sincerely,' but to injure him ;
(Phil. 1:
15 ;) that ' many walked as the enemies of the cross of Christ, whose end is
destruction, whose God is their belly, whose glory is in their shame, who
mind earthly things ;
(Phil, 3; 18 ;) that some were ' disorderly, working
not at all, but busy-bodies ;' (2 Thess. 3: 11 ;) that some had '
swerved'
from the true gospel ' and turned aside to vain jangling, desiring to be teach^
ers of the law ;' (1 Tim. 1: 6 ;) that Hymeneus and Alexander '
had put
away a good conscience, and made shipwreck of faith ;' (1 Tim. 1: 19;) that
some of the young widoAVS were ' idle^ wandering from house to house, tattlers,
busy-bodies, speaking things which they ought not, and had turned aside to
Satan ;'
(1 Tim. 5: 13 ;) that some had been corrupted by ' the love of money,*
and had erred from the faith, piercing themselves through with many sorrows ;
(1 Tim. 6: 10 ;) that at a certain time '
all they which were in Asia had
turned away from him ;'
(2 Tim. 1; 15;) that there were those whose ^ word
would eat like a canker, of whom were Hymeneus and Philetus, who concern^
ing the faith had erred, saying that the resurrection was past already, and
overthrew the faith of some ;' (2 Tim. 2: 17 ;) that there was a sort of per*
sons who '
crept into houses and led captive silly women laden with sins, led
away with divers lusts, ever learning and never able to come to the knowledge
of the truth ;' (2 Tim. 3: 6 ;) that '
Demas had forsaken him, having loved
this present world ;' (2Tim. 4: 10 ;) that 'Alexander the coppersmith did him
much evil, and greatly resisted his words ;' (2 Tim. 4: 14 ;) that there were
' many unruly and vain talkers and deceivers, who subverted whole houses,
professing to know God, but in works denying him, being abominable and dis^
obedient, and unto every good work reprobate.' Titus 1: 10. To the Corin*
thians he says, '
I fear lest when I come again my God will humble me among
you, and that I shall bewail many which have sinned already, and have not
repented of the uncleanness and fornication and lasciviousness wdiich they
have committed.' 2 Cor. 12: 21. To the elders of Ephesus he says, ^
I
know that after my departing, shall grievous wolves enter in among you, not
sparing the flock.' Acts 20: 29. He prophesies with great emphasis, that
' in the latter times [i. e. of the apostolic age] some should depart from the
faith, giving heed to seducing spirits and doctrines of devils, speaking lies in
hypocrisy, having their consciences seared with a hot iron ;' (1 Tim. 4: 1 ;)
that ' the time would come when they would not endure sound doctrine, but
after their own lusts should heap to themselves teachers, having itching ears,
and should turn away their ears from the truth, and be turned unto fables.'
2 Tim. 4: 3.
Peter forewarns the church that false prophets and false teachers vfere
coming among them and w^uld '
privily binng in damnable heresies, and that
many should follow their pernicious ways, by reason of whom the way of truth
should be evil spoken of.' He speaks of some as already present who ^
walk
after the flesh in the lust of uncleanness, and despise government, being pre-
sumptuous and self-willed, having eyes full of adultery, and that cannot cease
from sin, beguihng unstable soulSp These (says he) are wells without water^
468 FIERY DARTS QUENCHED.
clouds tliafc are carried with a tempest, for whom the mist of darkness is re-
served forever. For when they speak great swelhng words of vanity, they
allure through the lusts of the flesh, through much wantonness, those that
were clean escaped from them that live in error. While tlicy promise them
liberty, they themselves are the servants of corruption.' 2 Pet. 2.
Jude says that ' certain men had crept into the church unawares, who were
before of old ordained to this condemnation ; ungodly men, turning the grace
of God into lasciviousness, and denying the only Lord God and our Lord
Jesus Christ; filthy dreamers, defiling the flesh, despising dominion, speak-
ing evil of things which they understood not, murmurers, complainers, walk-
ing after their own lusts, speaking great SAvelling words, having men's persons
in admiration, sensual, having not the spirit, clouds Avithout water, carried
about of winds, trees whose fruit Avithereth, without fruit, twice dead, plucked
up by the roots ; raging waves of the sea, foaming out their own shame
wandering stars, to whom is reserved the blackness of darkness forever.'
John records the apostasies which had been predicted by previous writers,
and says ot the apostates, '
They went out from us, but they were not of us.'
1 John 2: 19. He warns believers against seducing spirits, '
because,' says
he, 'many false prophets are gone out into the world.' 1 John 4: 1. And
again—' Many deceivers are entered into the world.' 2 John 7.
Christ, in his message to the seven churches, speaks of persons who said
* they were apostles and were not ;'
of others who licensed '
fornication ;' of
a woman who pretended to be a prophetess, and taught and seduced believers
to commit fornication ; of some who had '
a name to live and were dead,' and
of some who were '
lukewarm, neither cold nor hot,' fit only to be '
spued
out of the mouth.' Rev. 2 & 3.
If we add to all this the fact that even the honest believers in the primitive
church, during their novitiate, were in many cases carnal, prone to ' envying,
strifes and divisions,' and that some of them fell into fornication and other
grievous sins, so that it was necessary that they should be delivered to Satan,
it seems to us that a case is made out against the apostolic gospel, as dark
as can be made out against the present gospel of holiness. May we not say
then to those who are perplexed by the errors, follies, and apostasies of pro-
fessed Perfectionists,—" Beloved, think it not strange concerning the fiery
trial which is to try you, as though some strange thing happened unto you.
'No temptation hath taken you, but such as is common to man. The same
afflictions were accomplished in your brethren that w^ere in the world eighteen
hundred years ago. The gospel then, as now, was a net that enclosed all
kinds, good and bad. The final and thorough separation of the tares from
the wheat was then, as it will be now, the business of the day of judgment.
"We must be content to learn wisdom, and patiently trust and serve God in
the midst of '
perils by false brethren,' till that day."
Let us consider whether the desponding inferences which Satan would have
us draw from the disorders and apostasies of Perfectionists, are warranted in
view of the facts in the case of the primitive church.
1. The false gospels, false apostles, false brethren, fornications, dissensions,
and desertions, which marked the history of that church, did not prove that it
FIERY DARTS QUENCHED. 469*
had not the TRUE gospel. This will be admitted by all who believe the New
Testament.
2. Neither did those evils prove that none of the believers who were sur-
rounded by them were born of God and saved from sin. At the very time
when ' all Asia had turned away' from Paul, he could testify boldly—' I am
not ashamed; for I know in whom I have believed, that he is able to keep that
which I have committed to him. I have fought a good fight, I have finished
my course, I have kept the faith.' 2 Tim. 1: 12, 4: 7. In that last dark
hour, when antichrist was revealed, and many false prophets went forth like
w^olves, not sparing the flock—nay, in the very midst of the '
great falling
away,' the testimony of John was as clear and loud as ever—' Beloved, noiv
are we the sons of God—Ye have overcome them, because greater is ho
that is in you than he that is in the world.—As he is so are we in this world.
We knoio that the Son of God is come, and hath given us an understanding,
that we may know him that is true ; and we are in him that is true, even in
his Son Jesus Christ.' 1 John 3: 1, &c.
3. The delinquencies of the carnal part of the primitive church did not
prove that there was no security of holiness. Wesley, we are told, '
for six
years after he was sanctified, believed that eternal obedience was secured;
but afterward let go this point, on seeing numbers who professed to have ob-
tained perfection fall into sin.' But we might ask such a theologian. Is the
experience of a few of your converts the measure by which we must trim the
word of God ? Shall the unfaithfulness of some, bar the security of others ?
When we see the plants that shoot up on the stony ground or among thorns,
after a while withering away, must we therefore conclude that the '
honest
and good hearts' have no certainty of bringing fruit to perfection ? '
What
is the chaff to the wheat ? saith the Lord.' Wesley seems to have thought
that the chaff ought to determine doctrines, and measure hopes for the
wheat
Paul thought no such thing. He certainly saw as much unstable experi-
ence, and as many spiritual bankruptcies as any one ever did ; and yet his
own assurance of perpetual holiness, was never shaken. '
Who shall separate
us,' says he, '
from the love of Christ ? Shall tribulation, or distress, or per-
secution, or famine, or nakedness, or peril, or sword ? As it is written, For
thy sake we are killed all the day long ; we are accounted as sheep for the
slaughter. Nay, in all these things we are more than conquerors, through
him that loved us. For I am persuaded that neither death, nor life, nor
angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come,
nor height nor depth, nor any other creature, shall be able to separate us
from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord.' Rom. 8: 35—39.
Nor did Paul, in the confusion which Satan raised by shuffling about un-
stable souls, lose his confidence in the security of others. To the Philip-
pians he writes, '
I thank my God upon every remembrance of you, being
confident of this very thing, that he which hath begun a good work in you
will perform it until the day of Christ.' Phil. 1: 6. He says to the Thcssa-
lonians, '
We give thanks to God always for you all, knowing, brethren
beloved, your election of God.' 1 Thess. 1: 4. And again, ' We are bound
470 FIERY DARTS QUENCHED.
to give thanks always to God for you, brethren beloved of the Lord, because
God hath from the beguming chosen you to salvation, through sanctification
of the Spirit and belief of the truth.* 2 Thess. 2: 13. When dissensions
arose in the church, instead of doubting the gospel or giving up the security
of true believers, he saw in those very dissensions, agencies of good.
* There must be also,' says he, '
heresies among you, that they which are
app'oved may he made manifest.^ 1 Cor. 11: 19. When Hymeneus, Phi-
letus and others, apostatized and began to spread corruption among believers,
instead of allowing their fall to shake his confidence and shift his doctrines,
as Wesley did, he enters this protest 'Nevertheless the foundation of God
standeth sure, having this seal. The Lord knoweth them that are his.'
2 Tim. 2: 19. And then he adds an illustration of the situation of the
church, exactly corresponding to the parable of the sower and of the net.
* In a great house,' says he, '
there are not only vessels of gold and of silver,
but also of wood and of earth, and some to honor and some to dishonor.'
Ver. 20. So when antichrist was revealed, and many fell away from the
faith, John did not loose heart and begin to doubt the honesty and securit}'
of all around him, but accounted for the desertions thus : —' They went out
from us ; but they were not of us : for if they had been of us, they would
have continued with us : but they went out that they might he made mani-
fest that they were not all of us.' 1 John 2: 19.
If we are to reason at all on the subject of security, from the experience
of those who profess holiness, why may we not invert Wesley's argument, and
infer that '
eternal obedience is secured,' because some have not fallen away ?
If five fall, and five persevere, why is not the perseverance of the latter as
good evidence /(9r the doctrine of security, as the fall of the former is against
it ? Nay, if a hundred fall, and only one perseveres, does not the experience
of that one prove the possibility of security ? If a hundred iron safes are
exposed to the same fire, and only one of them preserves its contents unin-
jured, the case of that one demonstrates that iron safes may be made fire-
proof.
But arguments from human examples are not to be relied on either way.
"The *
sure foundation' is the word of God. It is certain that ' he that believ-
<eth hath everlasting life, and shall not come into condemnation,' not because
it can be proved by the experience of this or that man, but because the Son
of God has staked his veracity on the assertion. It is certain that '
Christ's
jsheep will hear his voice and follow him, and that no man shall pluck them
out of his hand,' because this is the declaration of him who cannot lie. It
is certain that '
he that is born of God doth not commit sin, for his seed re-
jnaineth in him, and he cannot sin,' because this is the testimony of God's
appointed witness. It behooves those who profess faith that can say, '
Let
Ood be true and every man a liar,' to look toward these assurances of God,
and not tow^ard the experiences of man, for evidence on the subject of security.
To those who are disposed to look with wondering perplexity at the fall of
this or that man, who was once regarded as a spiritualist of the brightest ex-
perience, and to ask, '
How can it he that such a one, Avith all his knowledge
of the truth on the subject of holiness, the second coming, &c., should fal]
FIERY DARTS QUENCHEB. ^. 471
back into the love of the world, or into such fooleries as Millerism V—we
would say, '
Why stand ye gazing (not even up into the visible heavens,
but) into flesh and blood ? Turn your faces toward the word and spirit of
the living God. There are many ways to account for these Lucifer-plunges,
without calling in question the security of the sons of God. Perhaps the
man you have in your eye was like a cloud that rolls itself up in the glory of
the setting sun. For a little while the gorgeous mist displays its golden folds
so wonderfully, that it attracts even more admiration than the sun itself.
But it has only a borrowed light. In its own substance there is nothing but
damp obstruction ; and when the sun has sunk a little further, the glory is
gone—the gold has become a dark vapor. We have often noticed that mere
reflectors make a more dazzling show than the lights from which they borrow.
Why do not those who wonder '
how it can be' that notable Perfectionists
fall away, ask 'How can it be that the seed sown on stony ground, shoots
up so thriftily at first, and then withers ?' The answer of the Lord is '
The
stony ground converts, though they receive the word with joy, have no root
in themselves.^
The day ofjudgment will doubtless give us to see more clearly than we can
now, how nearly the devil can counterfeit true spiritual experience and testi-
mony, and how far a man may advance in gospel knowledge and feeling,
without the faith of Christ in his heart. But we may know enough now of
the mystery of human nature, to satisfy us on the one hand that mere exter-
nal appearances, however splendid and promising, are not to be taken as evi-
dences of inward faith ; and on the other, that the falling away of those who
put forth such appearances, is not to be taken as evidence against the inward
faith and security of others. If we cannot explain how certain admirable
manifestations of spirituality are consistent with subsequent apostasy, yet we
can know assuredly that the apostates never heartily believed in Christ
never were born of God : for the record is, ' He that believeth hath everlas-
ting life ;' ' He that is born of God doth not commit sin, for his seed remain-
eth in him:' and this record stands, like a rock, against all the billows of
contradicting experience*
§ 70. THE LOVE OF LIFE,
As the life of man is the soul, the love of life, in the strict sense of the
expression, is the love of the soul ; and as the soul in the present state of
existence dwells partly in a body, the love of life as a whole, of course in-
cludes the love of that part of life which is in the body. One who truly loves
his whole life, however, will love the bodily part of it only in a subordinate
degree. He will not regard his body as necessary to his continued existence
and happiness, but only as a valuable dwelling-place for the present. This
radical absolute love of hfe, which goes back into that which is purely spiritual
and fastens on eternal existence, holding the body as a circumstance, and not
an essential, is a passion which the gospel seeks to awaken.
But the love of life, in the usual sense, is the love of bodily life. Men
w^hose experience has run altogether into corporeal actions and sensations,
w^ho have never been drawn backward into consciousness of the purely spirit-
ual parts of their being, have little or no conception of any life but that of the
body, and practically account death the end of existence. Of course they love
that part of their life which is in the body, as their whole life. This partial,
false love of life, it is one of the principal objects of the gospel to eradicate.
Lust^ in the usual evil sense of the word, is excessive unruly desire. Mere
desire of food, money, &c., is not necessarily lust. It is when these objects
are desired in a degree beyond their value, and without due reference to
other interests, that the passion for them becomes lust. Now that love of
bodily hfe which regards it as the whole man, is palpably excessive—dispro-
portionate to the absolute and relative value of the object. It is therefore a
lust in the evil sense of the word—as truly so, as the passion of the drunkard,
the whoremonger, and the miser. Its proper place is among the low, degra-
ding, sensual passions.
In order to ascertain its exact place on the scale of sensuality, w^e must
take a comprehensive view of the philosophy of life. Happiness, which is
the ultimate object of all love, is produced by the conjunction of desire with
its object. It is not the desire of food, nor food itself, but the desire and
food united, that produce the pleasure of eating. Desire audits object may
be called the subjective and objective means of happiness ; and these two
classes of means are concerned in every form of pleasure of which man is
capable. As we love happiness, so we subordinately love the means of it.
The epicure loves food on the one hand, and his appetite on the other, in
proportion as he loves the pleasure which he finds in their union.
Now all the objective means of sensual happiness—the outward material
for the gratification of amativeness, ahmentiveness, and the rest of the animal
passions—are procurable by money. Hence money is the representative of
all earthly good, and the love of money is equivalent to the love of the world
as a whole. It is a concentration of all the various passions for individual
worldly objects. While the love of food, beauty, music, equipage, &c., are
specific passions, the love of money is generic, including them all. Hence
LOVE OP LIFE. 473
the apostle calls the love of money the ' root of all evil,' meaning that it is
the central generic passion, to which all evil desires for worldly objects are
to be referred as branches.
But this relates only to the objective means of sensual happiness. If appe-
tite, as well as an external object, is necessary to pleasure, and if men love
the subjective as well the objective means of happiness, the question still re-
mains—What is the central, generic alFection, to which all the affections for
the various specific sensual appetites are to be referred ? In other words,
what is the root of all sensual self-love, as distinguished from the love of the
world ? We answer, it is the love of life, in the usual sense of the expres-
sion. As bodily life is the stock on which all sensual appetites grow, so the
love of bodily life is the stock on which all other kinds of sensual self-love
grow. The love of hfe is to the subjective class of means of happiness, just
what the love of money is to the objective class. As money is the represen-
tative of all worldly valuables, so the life of the body is the representative
of all susceptibihties to happiness from those valuables. As the love of
money is the '
root of all evil' objectively considered, so the love of life is
the ' root of all evil' subjectively considered. Life cannot make a man
happy in the present state of the world, without money ; and money cannot
make a man happy without life. Money and life are the necessary complements
of each other—the father and mother of sensual happiness ; and the love of
money and the love of life are the i^o foci of all sensual affections.
We may go a step farther. Strictly speaking the love of Hfe takes prece-
dence of the love of money, and, in fact, includes it ; for life is more abso-
lutely essential to happiness, than money. Life is the '
post in the middle.'
Money is the circumstance. Dying men often love life intensely, after their
. love of worldly valuables is gone. The love of money, traced to its root, is
the love of Hfe. So that, on the whole, love of bodily life stands at the head
-of the whole list of sensual passions, subjective and objective. It is the
CENTRE-LUST in Carnal human nature.
The direction of Christ's labors, as a reformer, was exactly in accordance
with these views. The strength of his rebukes and exhortations was laid out,
not on the various specific forms of sensuality and vice, but on the two ge-
neric lusts—the love of money, and the love of life. To those who proposed
to follow him, his word was—' Leave your money, and follow me to the
cross.'
In his warfare with the love of life, he manifested in the first place most
unequivocally that his hostility was not against bodily life itself, but against
the disproportionate love of it. He took upon him the profession of physi-
cian, and went about healing all manner of diseases. But in the meantime
he taught his disciples that none but those who could hate and forsake their
own lives could follow him to the end. ' He that loveth his life,' said he,
' shall lose it ; and he that loseth his life for my sake, shall find it.' Finally
he proved that he was in earnest by dying himself. His cross gave a death-
blow to the centre-lust. Before that blow was given, his followers might
have begun to imagine, from seeing his power over diseases, that he was
about to put an end to the death of the body immediately, and establish bis
59
474 LOVE OP LlfB,
kingdom in this world. Nothing could have been better fitted to mortify
such imaginings and longings of the flesh, than his own submission to death.
He passed the '
dark valley,' and raised his standard in the resurrection ;
leaving his followers no alternative but to pass the same way into the king-
dom for which they hoped*
During the whole period of the apostolic age, the church was in
a school, the .
principal lesson of which was—' Through much tribula-
tion we enter into the kingdom of God.' Persecution, like a school-
master, stood over believers with the rod of martyrdom. Paul lived
thirty years just within the jaws of death—dying daily, and yet living. All
the apostles and prominent teachers of the church lived in continual hazard
of the fate of Stephen, and many of them at last experienced it. The whole
church which had the honor of casting down the accuser and beginning the
kingdom of God in the first resurrection, are described as those who were
* beheaded for the witness of Jesus.' Rev. 20: 4. It was their glory that
* they loved not their lives unto the death.' Rev. 12: 11.
God has placed the whole human race in circumstances which indicate that
one of the principal objects of his administration is to mortify the centre-lust.
The uncertainty of life at all times, the certainty of death at last, the disea-
ses which assail all from time to time, the terrible agonies which are the
peculiar lot of women, and the perils of war which specially fall on men, make
life universally a school in which all may learn the same great lesson which
Christ prescribed to his followers, and which the primitive church learned in
the fires of persecution. If we are willing to be taught that lesson, we need
not look back to the '
martyr age,' as though that were the only time of the
death-trial. It has been the '
martyr age' over the whole earth, ever since
Adam sinned. The persecution of '
him that hath the power of death' has
raged against the whole human race six thousand years ; and every man,
^vomian and child, has opportunity almost daily to see his victims bleed, and
to learn to face his terrors.
We see then that whoever is nourishing in himself and others the love of
bodily life, as though it were the whole or the principal life of man, and rep-
resenting it as not only innocent but commendable for men to make it an im-
portant and even paramount business to take care of their health, and prolong
their lives, is laboring to contravene the manifest policy of God in the admin-
istration of the world—to introduce not only a different but an opposite gos-
pel from that of the cross of Christ, and to stimulate into the highest possible
prurience that very central lust which is the parent of all others, and which
more than all others needs to be disciplined and crucified.
The physiological reformers of our times seem to think there is no danger of
men's loving their lives too much. One would conclude from their writings,
that health is the '
one thing needful'—' the great salvation ;'
and that in the
place of Christ's saying, '
He that loveth his life shall lose it,' we ought to
substitute-^-' He that loveth not his life with tenfold more fervor than men
generally do, shall lose that and every thing else that is valuable.' Self-de-
nial and cross-bearing, with them, instead of being a denial and crucifixion of
the actual life, is eating and drinking by rule; mortifying some of the grosser
propensities, and enduring a life-long struggle to preserve health by obeying
LOVE OF LIFE. 475
the natural laws:' i. e., it is a denial of the branches of sensuality, for the
benefit of the root. Now we fully believe that a man who has passed from
the ordinary sensual regimen into the strictest chastity of Grahamism, if he
has done it for the sake of saving his bodily life and health, and has contracted
in the process (as it may be presumed he has) an extraordinary affection for
his life, is really a more sensual man than he was before. The special sins
of the glutton and the whoremonger may have been suppressed, but the centre-
lust is stronger than ever. We hesitate not to say, that in our view it would
be far better for a man to have bad health and to die before his prime, (if
that is the legitimate result of ' seeking first the kingdom of God and his
righteousness,' without caring for the questions—' What shall we eat, what
shall we drink, and wherewithal shall we be clothed ?') than to spend his days
in serving and disciplining his body, and in studying ways and means to make
it feel the best and hold together longest. We are not sure but that war,
(which it is so fashionable to deprecate in these days,) so far as it reduces the
love of life, and produces in some a semblance, at least, of the noble martyr-
spirit, has a better moral tendency than those reforms which stimulate the love
of life, and convert immortal men into body-tenders.
It behooves those who believe that health for the body as well as for the
soul, is to be obtained by faith, and who are looking for another manifesta-
tion of Christ's heahng power, and a final victory over disease and death, to
take heed that they fall not into the error of the physiologists. God will not
serve the lusts of the flesh ; and when he sees that his gifts of healing are
drawing attention away from the soul to the body, and are feeding and fatten-
ing the love of life, he will certainly withhold them. In this matter it will be
found true that '
he that loveth his life shall lose it.' The way to shut out
the power of health, is to crave and seek for it, as though it were the '
one
thing needful.' And the way to admit and attract that power, is to love life
and health only according to their true value, and '
seek first the kingdom of
God and his righteousness.' We fully believe that a glorious victory over
disease and death is coming. But we also believe that it will not come till
the love of life and health, and the fear of death, have been thoroughly and
permanently reduced, either by sufiering or by faith, to their proper dimen-
sions.
As '
the sorrow of the world worketh death,' while * godly sorrow work-
eth repentance unto life,' so the sufferings of the world increase selflove, but
godly sufferings increase faith and love toward God, and teach men to ^count
not their lives dear unto them.' Though, under the devil's reign, it is, as
we have said, always the '
martyr-age,' yet it must be remembered that they
only are the true martyrs who voluntarily and joyfully submit to suffering and
death for Christ's sake. When disease and the shadow of death come upon
believers, let them not count it the only Avay of escape, to turn their backs
upon the enemy and seek from the Lord or from medicine a recovery of health.
There are two ways to victory. Death is theirs as well as life. See Rom.
8: 35—39, 1 Cor. 3: 22. And death, on many accounts, may be '
far bet-
ter' than life. Fhil. 1: 21—23. Let them joyfully consent to conquer
either way, and leave the choice to God. Let them turn and face death.
They will be quite as likely to regain health in a spiiit of calm willingness to
/
476 ABOLITION OF DEATH.
die, as in a spirit of anxiety and fear. And if God deals with them as with
sons, he will surely hold them in the presence of the * king of terrors,' till
they learn not to fear him. There is no joy sweeter to the spirit than that
of him whose faith has fairly triumphed over the love of life, so that he can
look death full in the face without a shudder. It is not the anxious love of
life, but the free and joyful spirit of martyrdom, that will finally drive disease
and death out of the universe of God.
§ 71. THE ABOLITION OF DEATH.
One of the most interesting points of thought in relation to the last dis-
pensation of Christ, a point which stands prominent on all the testimony of
scripture concerning it, is this : In the dispensation of the fullness of times,
THIS WORLD is to he given to Christ. Nothing but a conquest thus extensive,
can fulfil the predictions of scripture, and give propriety to the great drama
which will then be finished. The angel swears, that '
the mystery of God
should be finished, as he hath declared to his servants the prophets.'^ What
are the declarations of God to the prophets, concerning the catastrophe of this
world's history ? A few extracts from them will sufficiently answer this
question.
"It shall come to pass in the last days, that the mountain of the Lord's honse
shall be estabhshed in the top of the mountains, and shall be exalted above the
hills ; and all nations shall flow unto it. And many people shall go and say,
Come ye, and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God
of Jacob ; and he will teach us of bis ways, and we will walk in his pathd : for
out of Zion shall go forth the law, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem.
And he shall judge among the nations, and shall rebuke many people ; and they
shall beat their swords into plovv-shares, and their spears into pruning-hooks
nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war any
more." Isa. 2: 2—4.
"And in the days of these kings shall the God of heaven set up a kingdom
which shall never be destroyed : and the kingdom shall not be left to other peo-
ple, but it shall break in pieces and consume all these kingdoms, and it shall
stand for ever." Dan. 2: 44.
"And he shall speak great words against the Most High, and shall wear out
the saints of the Most High, and think to change times and laws : and they shall
be given into his hand, until a time and times and the dividing of time —[the
forty-two months of the Gentiles.] But the judgment shall sit, and they shall
take away his dominion, to consume and to destroy it unto the end. And the
kingdom and dominion, and the greatness of the kingdom under the whole
heaven, shall be given to the people of the saints of the Most High, whose
kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and all dominions shall serve and obey
him." Dan. 7: 25—27.
" The Lord shall be king over all the earth : in that day shall there be one
Lord, and his name one." Zech. 14: 9.
ABOLITION OF DEATH. 477
These predictions promise such mighty conquests, that increduhty has ever
treated them as idle tales ; and their fulfilment has been delayed so long be-
yond the overweening expectations of those who forget that ' one day is with
the Lord as a thousand years, and a thousand years as one day,' that few
dare believe more than that they will come to pass sometime between '
now
and never .' As if to arrest effectually the progress of unbelief, and fasten
the hopes of believers on something firmer than the shifting quicksands of
conjecture, ' the angel, standing on the sea and on the land, lifted his hand
to heaven, and sware by him that liveth forever and ever, that there
shall be time no longer—but in the days of the voice of the seventh angel,
when he shall begin to sound, the mystery of God should be finished, as he
hath declared to his servants the prophets.' The mightiest oath of an arch-
angel, is the bond by which we are assured that the prophecies above quoted,
and all like them, shall be fulfilled in the dispensation of the fullness of times.
That they were not fulfilled in the dispensation of the primitive church, is
manifest ; and on the supposition that that dispensation was the only one
predicted, infidelity might properly ridicule the vain glorious boasting of
scripture, and exult in her blasphemies of the God of heaven, without fear of
check or overthrow. If Christianity fairly measured its strength with the
powers of hell, in that first encounter—if it has done already its destined work
in this world, and nothing more glorious and triumphant is to be expected
from it than has heretofore been seen,—then may Satan well claim a victory
over the Son of God ; for he retains his usurped possession of the territory
which God first gave to Adam, then to Abraham, and afterwards to Christ,
in spite of all the efforts of heaven to recover it ; and all that has ever been
done against him, amounts to nothing more than an abduction of a few of his
prisoners. But if, as we have shown, another dispensation is predicted, and the
conquest of this world is reserved to grace the triumphs of the last campaign
of the Son of God, the charge of premature and vain exultation, will yet be
hurled back upon the head of infidelity. Unless God's prophets shall be con-
victed of false prophecy, and his archangel of perjury, Satan will yet be
driven from this world, and its throne will be given to Christ.
We have ascertained then, that the dispensation of the fullness of times
differs from that of the primitive church, in this important particular, viz :
one was a period of suffering in this world, and escape from it ;.. the other
will be the period of the conquest and recovery of this world. To illustrate
the whole idea,—suppose a ruffian invades and takes possession of another
man's house in his absence, and holds the family and servants of the owner
as prisoners. To effect the escape of all or of a part of them, would be to
them and to the owner of the house, a matter of great importance, and might
be the first object of attempt. But though this object should be gained, the
fugitives Avould not forget that they were escaping from their own house ; and
the owner would never cease to make war upon the usurper, till he had fully
recovered not only the whole of his family, but also his house and terri-
tory. To effect this, might be the object of a second attempt : and should
any of the family still remain prisoners, at the period of this second encoun-
ter, the course of procedure proper for them would materially differ from that
478 ABOLITION OF DEATH.
which the former occasion demanded. It would be then* business, not as in
the first affair, to prepare for flight, accounting a mere escape victory ; but
to co-operate with their friends without, in taking possession of the house, and
making arrangements for converting their prison into a family abode. Such
is the difference between the position which God's people held in the dispen-
sation of the primitive church, and the position which they will hold in the
dispensation of the fullness of times. The world from which the primitive
church was caught away, is at last to be conquered and given to its owner.
Those who co-operate with Christ in the coming campaign, will have hopes
and duties, in many respects different from those of the soldiers of the former.
The GLORIOUS HOPE, which fills the foreground of the prospect of those
w'ho wait for the finishing of the mystery of God, is presented in the foUow^-
ing beautiful passage from Isaiah
" In this mountain shall the Lord of hosts make unto all people a feast of fat
things, a feast of wines on the lees ; of fat things full of marrow, of wines on
the lees well refined. And he will destroy in this mountain the face of the cov-
ering cast over all people, and the veil that is spread over all nations. He will
SWALLOW UP DEATH IN VICTORY ; and the Lord God will wipe away tears from
off all faces ; and the rebuke of his people shall he take away from off all the
earth : for the Lord hath spoken it. And it shall be said in that day, Lo, this
is our God ; we have waited for him, and he will save us : this is the Lord ; we
have waited for him, we will be glad and rejoice in his salvation." Isa. 25: 6-9.
This passage clearly refers to the dispensation of the fullness of times. The
feast spread for 'all nations^^
and the removal of the rebuke of God's people
from off '
ALL THE EARTH,' are events which manifestly are identified in
prophecy w^th the dispensation of the fullness of times. ' He will swallow
UP death in victory !' Pious infidelity says, this saying is fulfilled when
Christians have a comfortable hope in death. But Paul gives his opinion thus
" Behold I show you a mystery : we shall not all sleep, but we shall all be
changed. In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trump : for the
trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall be raised incorruptible, and we shall be
changed. For this corruptible must put on incorruption, and this mortal must
put on immortality. So when this corruptible shall have put on incorruption,
and this mortal shall have put on immortality, then shall be brought to pass
the saying that is written. Death is swallowed up in victory." iCor. 15: 51-54.
By recurring to our past testimony on the second coming, it will be found
that Paul speaks here of a translation of the saints, which he anticipated
within liis own lifetime, and which actually came to pass at the end of the
Jewish dispensation ; so that that part of the prophecy of Isaiah wdiich refers
to the victory over death, defined as it is by Paul, has already been fulfilled
in individuals. Resuming the illustration before given, and considering the
hody^ instead of the world, as the house which has been siezed by a usurper,
we discover the difference between going to heaven by escainng from the
body, and going to heaven by translation^ without leaving the body. One
is a primary, partial victory ; the other is final and complete. In this view
of the matter, death was swallowed up in victory at the second coming of
Christ. Yet the victory which was thus complete in respect to the bodies of
ABOLITION OF DEATH. 479
individuals, was only partial in respect to tlie territory of the world. Though
the primitive saints remained in the body, they were ^caught awcuf from the
world, and Satan still held possession of their mundane, though not of their
corporeal house. Now if the victory of Christ should proceed no further in
the dispensation of the fullness of times, than it did in the dispensation of the
primitive church, our hope would properly and necessarily extend to a full
victory over death, in respect to the bodies of individuals, by instantaneous
change and translation. But, as has been shown, in the last dispensation,
the kingdoms of this ivorld will become '
the kingdoms of our Lord and of his
Christ.' Of course, translation will be needless. If the object of the second
war is not to recover the prisoners, but to take the house, those who remain
prisoners till that period will have no occasion for flight. As Paul says of
the second coming, '
We which are alive and remain, shall be changed, and
caught iifp^-—it may now be said of the third coming, '
We which are alive
and remain, shall be changed, and take everlasting possession of this world.'*
Mr. Bush, in his late work on the Eesurrection, gives his view of the
promise that death shall be abolished in the dispensation of the last days, thus
" * There shall be no more death,' (Rev. 21: 4,) is merely affirming, that in
that blessed period there shall be an exemption from all those evil influences,
physical and moral, which now go to curtail the duration of human life, and
hurry thousands, in all generations, to a premature grave. Universal temper-
ance in eating and drinking, regulated passions, sobriety of aim, moderation of
pursuit, and vigilance of precaution, in all the business of life, combined with
strong hereditary vital stamina, great salubrity of climate, and unknown improve-
ments in the arts of physical well-being, will then no doubt secure to men a term
of longevity vastly transcending the highest hopes which they would now dare
to indulge." p, 327.
For the support of this theory, (viz. that 'no death' is merely h\o prema-
ture death,') Mr. B. relies exclusively on Isaiah 65: 19, 20, which he iden
tifies with Rev. 21: 4. We present the two passages, side by side
IsA. 65: 19,20.
" And I will rejoice in Jerusalem, and
Rev. 21: 4.
" And God shall wipe away all tears
from their eyes ; and there shall be no
more death, neither sorrow, nor crying,
neither shall there be any more pain :
for the former things are passed away."
joy in my people : and the voice of
weeping shall be no more heard in her,
nor the voice of crying. There shall
be no more thence an infant of days,
nor an old man that hath not filled his
days : for the child shall die an hundred
years old : but the sinner being an hun-
dred years old shall be accursed."
It is obvious that these passages very much resemble each other. Mr.
Bush, assuming that they are identical, first shows that Isaiah 65: 19, i^O,
describes a state in which death indeed exists, but is so far curtailed of its
power that one who dies at the age of a hundred years is regarded as a child,
and his death a judgment for his sins ; then, transferring this construction to
Rev. 21: 4, and other similar passages, he argues that there is no promise of
the literal abolition of death, but only of great longevity and freedom from
premature mortality.
480 ABOLITION OF DEATH.
We have seen, in a former examination of his writings, that he has a curi-
ous way of making doubtful passages in the Old Testament interpret, or
rather demolish, plain passages in the New ; and that too, with the acknowl-
edged testimony of an inspired interpreter against him. (See pp. 360, &
361.) We trust it will appear, from the following remarks, that the present
case is a specimen of the same practice.
The reader will perceive, in the following parallelism, that Rev. 21: 4 is
quite as manifestly identical with Isaiah 26; 8, as with Isaiah 65: 19, 20.
Rev. 21: 4.
"And God shall wipe away all tears
from their eyes : and there shall be no
more death, neither sorrow, nor crying,
neither shall there be any more pain :
for the former things are passed away."
IsA, 25: 8.
" lie will swallow up death in victo-
ry ; and the Lord God will wipe away
tears from oflt' all faces ; and the rebuke
of his people shall be taken away from
off all the earth : for the Lord hath
spoken it.'*
AVe prefer this comparison, as a method of deducing the meaning of Rev.
21: 4, to Mr. Bush's, because, instead of relying on our own judgment or on
his, for an interpretation of the passage which is to be our guide, we can be-
take ourselves in this case to the testimony of an inspired interpreter. Paul
quotes Isaiah 25: 8 in 1 Cor. 15: 51—54, and tells us plainly what he thinks
it means. '
We shall not all sleep,' says he, '
but we shall all be changed.
.... So when this corruptible shall have put on incorruption, [by change
without death,] . . . then shall be brought to pass the saying that is writ-
ten, Death is swallowed up in victory.' Here is none of the exegetical bathos
of which Mr. Busli is so fond—no sinking from '
no death' to '
no premature
death'—no talk about extraordinary longevity, exemption from violent disea-
ses, &c.; (all of which better befits the semi-infidel physiologists than humble
students of the word of God ;) but the apostle unmistakably defines Isaiah's
victory over death, as a bona fide abolition of it, in the case of those who be-
long to Christ. If this definition is the true one, it is as pertinent in the
dispensation of the fullness of times, as it was at the period of the second
coming ; and the parallelism between Isaiah 26: 8, and Rev. 21: 4, obliges
us to conclude that the latter passage, in asserting that '
there shall be no
more death' in the New Jerusalem state, means just what it says.
Again, in his remarks on the words—' Death and hell were cast into the
lake of fire,' (Rev. 20: 14.) Mr. Bush says :
—" This passage is based pri-
xnarily on an allusion to Hosea 13: 14 : 'I will ransom them from the power
of the grave ; I will redeem them from death : death, I will be thy plagues
grave, I will be thy destruction.' " And then, as if entirely ignorant or
contemptuously reckless of Paul's allusion to the latter passage, he transmutes,
as before, this destruction of death, into the abolition oipremature mortality.
' Death,' he says, ' in the sense above explained, oi premature mortality^ is
to have no place in the last beatific dispensation, and consequently he is here
[i. e. in Rev. 20: 14] represented as being abolished on the eve of its com-
mencement.' It is almost needless to say that Paul, in his manifest apphca-
tion of Hosca 13: 14, in 1 Cor. 15: 45, to the same literal abolition of death
ABOLITION OP DEATH.
'
481
as that to which he applies Isaiah 25: 8, places his own authority on this point
in direct opposition to Mr. Bush's.
The simple view of the whole matter is this. It is acknowledged on all
hands that the second advent was, or is to be, the harbinger of a literal ex-
emption from death on the part of the then living saints. Paul, an inspired
apostle, expressly declares this bona fide victory to be the fulfilment of the
two most notable predictions in the Old Testament concerning the abolition
of death. Of these two predictions, the promises to the same effect in Kev.
20 and 21, are confessedly the echoes. Those promises therefore mean,
Paul being judge, that death shall be hterally abolished in the New Jerusa-
lem state ; and Mr. B's interpolation of the word 'premature^ is proved to be
illegitimate.
Here we might rest the case without going into any examination of Isaiah
65: 19, 20, the text on which Mr. B. relies ; for, having inspired authority
for our interpretation of Isaiah 25: 8, and Hosea 13: 14, and only human
authority for the interpretation which sets Isaiah Qb: 19, 20 against them,
we might fairly say that the meaning of the latter passage is not ascertained;
and things doubtful must not be brought in against things certain. But as it
is desirable to rid ourselves, as far as possible, of all embarrassments from
seeming contradictions in the word of God, we will see what can be done
with Mr. B's stumbling-block.
By a glance at Isaiah 65: 19, 20, we perceive that there is matter in it
entirely incongruous wdth the New Testament descriptions of the New Jeru-
salem. Paul calls that holy city, '
the Jerusalem tvJiich is above,'' (Gal. 4:
26,) '
the heavenly Jerusalem ;' (Heb. 12: 22 ;) and in connection with the
last designation represents it as the abode of angels and 'just men made
perfect.^ It is therefore clear that the New Jerusalem is not something to
be hereafter instituted de novo in this world, but a post-mortal habitation,
long ago established in the heavens—the gathering place of the general as-
sembly and church of the first-bom, into which the primitive saints pass-
ed from mortality, either by death, or by change at the second advent,
and where they met the Father, Son, and holy angels. What has such a
place or state as this to do with Isaiah's account of people's '
dying a hundred
years old?' Are angels and just men made perfect only exempt from 'pre-
mature^ death ? Or are we to suppose that propagation goes on in heaven,
and that the children of the saints and angels '
die a hundred years old'?
Again, John, in his special description of the holy city, and in the very
chapter where the disputed predictions about the abolition of death occur,
says, 'tJiere shall in no wise enter into it any thing that defileth, neither ivhat-
soever tvorJceth abomination or maketh a lie ; but they tvhich are written in
the LamFs book of life.^ Rev. 21: 27. Whereas Isaiah says that in the
place of which he speaks, *
the sinner being an hundred years old, shall be
accursed.' How could the sinner be there, if it is in the New Jerusalem that
the prophet is describing ? A sinner dying accursed, and dying out of hear
ven, instead of out of this world into heaven, can hardly be thought to be one
of those '
who are written in the Lamb's book of life ;' and none else, accor-
ding to John, are addmitted to the holy city.
60
4^2 ABOLITION OF DEATH.
jFurthermore, Isaiah's language diametrically contradicts Mr. B's 0"wn the*
6ry respecting death in the New Jerusalem state. That theory is that ther0
is to be no premature death. We might ask whether all death is not unnat-
ural, and in that sense premature ; but waiving this, let us see if Isaiah does
not introduce a death into the state which he describes, that is in the usual
sense and emphatically premature. 'The child shall die an hundred years
old.' The meaning probably is, that one dying at the age of a hundred
years shall be considered a mere youth. But dying in childhood is certainly
premature death. In the days of the antediluvians (who are the patterns of
the hopes of physiologists) one who lived only one or two hundred years, died
Mong before his time.' ^ T^he sinner being an hundred years old^ shall
he accursed;'' i. e. his death shall be regarded as a judgment for his sins^
What is this but premature death ? It is the death of a sinner^ who (the
scripture says) '
shall not live out half his days.' It is death under a curse
and not by '
laws of nature.' Thus it appears that if we are to take Isaiah
65: 19, 20, as our guide to the meaning of Rev. 21: 4, we must conclude
that the words, '
there shall be no more death/ do not promise the actual
abolition of death, as they are generally understood, nor even the abolition of
premature death, as Mr* B. holds ; but only some indefinite elongation of
human life, and that such as is consistent with the continuance of sin, and its
curses. Is this all that John meant we should hope for, when he drew his
glorious picture of the New Jerusalem ?
The unavoidable conclusion from what has been said^ is, that either the
meaning of what is said about dying in Isa. 65: 19^ 20 is not yet ascertained,
or the passage does not refer to the New Jerusalem described in Rev. 21^
Our opinion is that the true reconcilation of the two prophecies is to be
found in the following theory. The New Jerusalem is, as we have seen, a
post-mortal organization long ago established. This organization is to
be revealed ultimately in this world. ' The New Jerusalem cometh
down from God out of heaven.' Rev. S: 12, 21: 2. Its distinc-
tive character, when thus revealed, will not be changed. It will still
be the sanctuary of angels and just men made perfect,-^-a state entirely ex-
empt from sin and death. This manifestation is predicted in Rev. 21. Yet
it does not appear from that prediction that it will at once (if ever) embrace
the whole population of the world. On the contrary, John represents it as a
city standing in the midst of the nations, accessible to them, and shedding its
heahng influence over them, but not actually including them within its walls.
' The kings of the earth do bring their glory and honor into it.' Ver. 24.
This implies that it is a capital to which the kings of the earth go up, and not
a territory comprehending the whole earth. '
The gates of it shall not be
shut day nor night. . . . And they shall bring the glory and honor of the na-
tions into it.' Ver. 25, 26. It shall stand always open to inhabitants of the
World, and the glory of the world shall be always passing into it. Yet the
prophecy immediately and emphatically adds, that '
there shall in no wise
enter into it any thing that defileth,' &c. Ver. 27. The idea is that of a
walled city in the midst of a populous country, engaged in commerce with
those without its walls, and receiving into itself whatever is valuable among
ABOLITION Ol" DEATH. 488
their offerings ; but vigilantly excluding whatever is worthless and pestilential,
' In the midst of the street of it, and on either side of the river [of life,] was
there the tree of life, which bare twelve manner of fruits, and yielded her
fruit every month ; and the leaves of the tree were for the healmg of the na^
tions.^ Thus the nations, though not actually within the city, receive from
it a health-giving influence. Leaves from the tree of life (not its fndt} are
sent into all the world. Here may be the solution of the doubtful passage iu
Isaiah. While sin and death are entirely excluded from the true New Jeru^
sal em, yet it may be true that in the Kew Jerusalem dis2:)ensation, that part
of the world which is not within the holy city, but only receivers of the leaves
of the tree of life, will be blessed only with the longevity which is described
in Isaiah 65: 19, 20 ; i. e. the partial influence of the vitality that reigns in
the sanctuary of God, will so far overcome death in the whole world, (or at
least in the literal Jerusalem, which the prophet seems to have in mind in the
passage in question,) that death at the age of a hundred years., shall be con?
sidered premature.
Whether this is the true solution of the difficulty or not, it is clear at all
events, that the New Jerusalem is a resurrection-city,—-that sin and death
are forever walled out of it,—that it is ultimately to be revealed in this world,
and that its immortality is to be accessible without death, to those Avho find
and follow ' the way of holiness.' 'Blessed are they that do his command^
merits^ that they may have right to the tree of life, and may enter in through
the gates into the city.^
HINTS TO PHILANTimOPISTS.
We hear, from time to time, great wailing of peace-men and sentimental
ists over the ravages of war. Statistics of the thousands slain in specific
battles, and of the millions slain in certain wars, are paraded with many mel*
ancholy exclamations. One man has taken pains to calculate that fourteen
thousand millions have been killed in war since the beginning of the world.
This is all well enough ; only it is a contracted and somewhat deceptive view of
the work of destruction which is going forward among mankind. One may
ask. Would not those fourteen thousand millions have died in some other way,
if they had not been killed in war V Certainly they would. War, then, only
hastened the execution of a sentence of death which was already impending
over them, and would infallibly have been executed upon them within a short
time of their actual death. If human life is worth any thing, and death is
such an evil as it is represented by those who declaim about the ' horrors of
war,' (and we do not deny it,) why should we not extend our view and our
sensibilities beyond mere literal war, to the great, world-wide, perpetual battler
field, where, instead of fourteen thousand millions slain in six thousand years,
we behold eight hundred milHons slain every thirty years, and an aggregate
of not less than one hundred thousand miUions slain since the beginning of the
world ? We see no reason to believe that consumptions, fevers, and the
thousand other forms of ordinary disease, are a whit less cruel niessengers of
death, than bayonets and grape shot. We admit that there may be moral evils
connected with war, greater than ordinarily exist in society at peace. Bu^
so far as the mere matter of death is concerned, we see nothing that very
-^
484 ABOLITION OF DEATH.
favorably dlstinguislies the whole world from a literal field of battle. Indeed,
if men did but consider it, the great life-battle in which they are engaged, is
so much worse than common battles as it is more certain that every individual
of them will be slain, sooner or later. The idea that ordinary universal death
is the inevitable result of the laws of nature, is doubtless that which makes
men comparatively insensible to its pre-eminent horrors ; so that they can be-
hold generation after generation, over the Avhole world, cut down without quar-
ter, and yet make no outcry or effort against the slaughter. But, if the Bible
is true, universal death is not the result of the laws of nature, but of sin.
Men are as truly slain by wicked violence, committed either by themselves
or others, when they die in their beds, as when they fall by the sword. It
is the devil, the author of sin, that '
hath the power of death ;' under whose
reign eight hundred millions perish every thirty years, and in comparison with
whose ravages all the slaughters of all the Alexanders and Caesars and Bona-
partes that the world has ever seen, are but as ' the drop of the bucket.'
A '
peace society' that should turn the attention of the world to the horrors,
not merely of physical, but of spiritual, diabolical war ; and should have for its
object to subvert the empire of sin and the devil, and establish peace and alli-
ance with God, so that death may be abolished altogther,—would be worthy
of its name. Peace advocates, in declaiming about the horrors of war, while
they sound no alarm and make no efforts against the universal slaughter of
the human race, which goes on from generation to generation, are chargeable
with ' straining out a gnat, while they swallow a camel.'
This hint may be extended to other laborers in the field of philanthropy.
Our physiological reformers, in common with patent medicine venders, and
physicians of all schools—regulars, Thomsonian, and homoeopathic—are con-
stantly pouring forth their theories of health and disease, with glowing de-
scriptions of the salutary results of following their directions. One would
think from the complacency with which they announce their discoveries, from
time to time, that they had actually routed the old tyrant, death ; or at least
gained a victory over some of his outposts. But after all is said and done
that Grahamites and doctors can say and do, death reigns with universal,
undisputed sway. The most that is effected by vegetable diet, bathing, ex-
ercise, pills, emetics, and ' infinitesimal doses,' is, a delay ot the dread exe-
cution Avhich awaits every human being ; a relief from present disease, and
possibly a reprieve, extending to what is called 'old age^ which, in fact, is
nothing more than what boyhood was, before the flood. Indeed, this is all
that is expected, or aimed at. Now we admit that it is well enough to strain
out as many gnats as we can, even if we are obliged to swalloAV camels. But
we object to boasting over such achievements. The blaze of physiological
discovery and improvement ought not to blind us to the truth that no health-
millennium can ever come, so long as the beginning and end of all disease re-
mains in undisturbed possession of the world. We ought not to forget that
physiologists and physicians can be nothing more than respectable quacks, so
long as they aim only to delay, not to abolish death.
The first object of the soldier of Christ is to abolish m; but this is not the
only victory for which he struggles. lie is engaged in a rebelhon against
the entire, dominion of the prince of this world. That evil being employs
ABOLITION OF DEATH. 485
death as well as sin, In his enterprise of establishing a perpetual sovereignty
over man. Seduction on the one hand, and destruction on the other, are the
twin-agencies of all wicked aspirants for power. By sin the devil gains pos-
session of the soul, and so insures the ultimate surrender of the whole man to
his dominion. If he cannot attain his first object of beguiling into sin, (as
he could not in the case of Christ,) he seeks, as the next best advantage,
the destruction of the body. And his two agencies reciprocally aid each
other. As sin tends to death, so disease, the power of death, fosters sin.
^Notwithstanding all the benefits which grace is able to extract from suifering,
(which are many and great,) we are persuaded that in the world at large,
the maladies which curse the bodies of men, are curses also to their souls.
Nay, we believe that they arc more fruitful sources than any or all other ex-
ternal influences, of selfishness, tyranny, fretfulness, misanmropy, intemper-
ance, licentiousness, idleness, effemina^cy, unbelief, and despair. When our
reforming philosophers shall have dug a httle deeper into the causes of human
wickedness and wo, and shall dare to contemplate the death-system, not as a
fatahty or a law of nature, but as a diabolical oppression, unnatural and re-
movable, we predict that they will find that ill health is the parent of more
moral corruption and imbecihty, than all the specific vices which engage the
attention of one class among them, and all the social abominations against
which the other class is struggling.
In accordance vrith the view that the reign of death is an evil second only to
the reign of sin, Christ, our great leader in the warfare with the prince of
evil, directed a large share of hi^ energies, during his service in this world,
against disease. Wherever he appeared in combat with the hosts of sin, his
blows also fell thick and fast on the powers of death. The demons, not only
of covetousness, pride, and unbehef, but of lunacy, palsy, and fever, fled be-
fore him. He submitted to death at last himself ; but it was for the sake of
pulling down, Samson-like, the temple of Satan, by tearing away its two pillars
—sin and death. His resurrection was a decisive victory over the physical
power of the devil ; and the gospel which thenceforward went forth, based as
it was on the fact of his resurrection, was glad tidings of redemption for the
body as well as for the soul. The message of the apostles was—' Christ is
risen ; believe on him, and the power of his resurrection shall first save your
souls from sin, shall even now begin to quicken your mortal bodies, and shall
ultimately give those who remain on the field till the second coming, immor-
tality without death.'
In our own labors as servants of the gospel, we have ever been led to keep
our eye on both of Satan's strong-holds. From the beginning, we have
preached the resurrection of Christ, as the radical element of regeneration
and perfect holiness ; and, with such a starting point, it was natural, not to
say inevitable, that we should be interested in giving scope to the resurrection
power in the physical as well as the spiritual part of human nature. A great
variety of facts in our own experience, have constrained us to recognize from
time to time, the close relation between salvation from sin and salvation from
disease and death, both with reference to the nature of the two operations,
and the identity of the power by which they are to be cj0fected. The expe-
486 ABOLITION OF DEATH.
rience and testimony of others also—facts which we have witnessed, or of
which we have received credible accounts, have continually attracted our
thoughts in the same direction. From almost every place where the gospel
of holiness has been sent, an echo has come back assuring us that the blessing
of emancipation from sin has been attended and followed by an improvement
of health. The witnesses to this fact are wide-spread, and without means of
sympathy or concert ; and in many cases, the physical improvement of which
they testify was not an object of pursuit, but came as the unexpected, spon-
taneous result of receiving Christ as a savior from sin. This general mani-
festation has deepened our previous convictions, that the resurrection of the
soul carries with it an incipient resurrection of the body, and tends directly
toward the final change from the mortal to the immortal state. At the same
time it has been a cheering certificate that we are indeed preaching the true
gospel of the resurrection. And in addition to this general fact, we have
been constantly receiving accounts of special instances of recovery from dis-
ease by the exercise of faith, among those who receive the gospel of holiness.
All these influences have kept alive through many dark and discouraging
circumstances and experiences, the flame of our interest in the physical influ-
ence of the gospel. Yet we have not had faith enough, or presumption
enough, to call the phenomena which have been presented, miracles. Much
less do we pretend that we or other believers are insured against disease and
death. On the contrary, we have seen some of our best soldiers fall, and
disease has fastened its fang on many who remain. Indeed we have had
abundant reason to know that ill health has been, and is still, the heaviest
incubus that presses on the energies of our cause. But after all, we have
evidence which we could not thrust out of sight if we would, that God is car*
rying on a steady, long-continued war with the power of death, in connection
with the gospel of salvation from sin. The result in individual instances de*
termines nothing in regard to the general issue. There is such a thing as
dying for the right to live ; and the efforts of those now engaged in the con-
flict with death, may secure that right to others, if not to themselves. Our
confidence in the truth that salvation from sin is leading on to the victory over
death, and our courage to hold up that truth before heaven and earth, grows
with our growth and strengthens with our strength.
§72. CONDENSATION OF LIFK
Christ disclosed, in his last prayer with his disciples, the inner mystery
of his scheme for making known to men his divine character and mission and
for conquering the world. It appears from the language of that prayer, that
his ultimate rehance was not on the excellence of his doctrines, nor on his
physical miracles, nor on the preaching and writing of his followers. His
anxiety was not that they who believed on him should become zealous and im-
portunate in direct assaults on the kingdom of darkness. He evidently did not
expect to establish his character in the world by words and works of propaga^
tion, after the manner of those who give more of their strength to proselyting
labors, than to internal culture. His last and most earnest petition for his
followers w^as—' That they all may be one ; as thou, Father, art in me, and
I in thee, that they also may be one in us ; that the tvorld may know that
thou hast sent me f and he adds—' The glory which thou gavest me, I have
given them, that they may he one^ even as we are one : I in them, and thou
in me, that they may be made perfect in one ; and that the world may know
that thou hast sent me, and hast loved them as thou hast loved meJ John
17: 21—23.
The idea of Christ manifestly was, that the spiritual unity of believers with
himself and his Father, and with each other, and the perfection which would
thence result, would make that effectual impression on the world, which was
the object of his mission, and which no preaching or miracles or outgoing
works could secure. This idea deserves much consideration. Let us en-
deavor to understand the philosophy of this unity, and the nature of its op-
eration on believers, and on the world.
In spite of the logic of the anti-materiahsts, who would reduce spirits to
nonentities, the Bible compels us to think and speak of life as an actual sub*
stance. We take the liberty to affirm, (appealing to the whole tenor of the
New Testament and to every believer's consciousness for evidence,) that
personal spirits are real things, having interiors and exteriors, attractions,
receptivities, and capacities for combination. When it is said that ' the Fa-
ther and the Son are one,' we understand this in no figurative, mystical, or
unreal sense, but in a sense as substantial and as clear as that in which we
understand that the Siamese twins are one. The Father and the Son, though
they are spirits, are two substances, joined, intermixed, combined, as really
as hght and heat are combined in a sunbeam. Their union does not destroy
their distinct personality, for it will be observed that in the passage we have
quoted from Christ's prayer, it is assumed that the union of believers with
God and with each other is to be precisely the same as the union of the Fa^
ther and the Son—a decisive testimony that the Father and the Son, though
one, are distinct persons—unless indeed we go so far as to deny that behevera
will retain their distinctness of persons in their final unity. Our idea is, that
the Father and the Son, though distinct persons, are present not only to each
other, but 2vithin each other—that their lives are not like solids, capable only
488 CONDENSATION OF LIFE.
of lateral contact, but like fluids, or like the imponderable elements, pervading
each other in the most intimate combination possible.
We have said that spirits have interiors and exteriors. From this it results
that individual spirits are capable of two distinct forms of compaction. They
may be filled^ and they may be enveloped. As the two great wants of the body
are food and clothing, or nourishment of the life, and good surroundings, so the
two great wants of spirits are, to be filled, and to be enveloped with conge-
nial life. These two wants are the grounds of all specific desires and passions.
Every susceptibility and every form of enjoyment, may be referred either to
the interior or to the exterior want of life. The interior want, or the de-
sire to be filled with life, is necessarily also a desire to envelop life ; and on
the other hand, the exterior want, or the desire to be enveloped with life, is
also necessarily a desire to fill life. These two generic forms of desire are
symbolized in the organizations of the sexes. The desire to be filled and to
envelop, is female. The desire to be enveloped and to fill, is male. Love,
in its highest form, is the reciprocal and satisfied attraction of these two
forms of desire.
The fact that life has interiors and exteriors, and corresponding attractions,
is that which makes it possible that one life should dwell in another. If spir-
its had but one surface, and were either all male or all female in their capa-
cities and attractions, external juxtaposition only would be possible. But
the universe of life, as it is, male and female, is capable of concentric infold-
ings and perfect unity. To begin with the highest forms of life, the Father
and the Son are concentric spiritual spheres. Their relations to each other
are those of male and female. The Father fills the Son and is enveloped by
him. The Son envelopes the Father and is filled by him. Though in a
subordinate sense it is true that each fills and each envelopes the other
that the Son dwells in the Father as well as the Father in the Son, (for to a
certain extent in all combinations of spirits there is an interchange of relations
and func Lions,) —yet in a general sense it is evident from scripture that the
Father is the interior life and the Son the exterior. Thus in the prayer of
Christ the order of indwelling is indicated in these words—* That they may
be one as we are one ; Tin them, and thou in nxe.^ The Father is the in-
dwelling life of the Son, as the Son is the indwelling life of believers. That
the relation of the Father to the Son is that of interior to exterior, or male
to female, appears also from these words of Paul—' The head of every man
is Christ, and the head of the woman is the man, and the head of Christ is
God.^ 1 Cor. 11: 13. It is obvious that in all combinations, the interior life
must be more compact and therefore stronger than the exterior. The female
capacity is in its very nature negative. Weakness makes room for strength.
Deficiency embraces fullness. Hence the Father takes precedence of the
Son. ' My Father,' says Christ, ' is greater than I.'
The end for which Christ prayed, was, that the unity which thus exists at
the centre of all life, might be extended to the spirits of all who should be-
lieve on him. He came into the Avorld that he might begin this work of
concentration, by introducing himself into the interiors of men. To the Father
he is the exterior or female life, but to man he is the interior or male life.
CONDENSATION OP LIFE. 489
The life of the Father is the only spninol plenum ; i. e., he only is filled
with his own life. In him alone, the interior want is supplied from his own
resources. The Son is filled with the fullness of the Father, interiorly, and
he seeks in man exterior envelopment. And so in the whole succession of
infoldings from the father outward, each spirit or sphere of spirits is filled
by a more central life, and enveloped by a more external life ; i. e., each life
is female to the life in advance of it toward the centre, and male to the life
behind it toward the circumference.
Let us here glance at some of the representations which the New Testament
gives of the relation between Christ and believers. '
As the living Father
hath sent me, and I live by him, so he that eatethme shall live by me.' Jno.
6: 57. '
If Christ be in you, the body is dead,' &c. Rom. 8: 10. '
Know
ye not that your bodies are the members of Christ ? shall I then take the
members of Christ, and make them the members of an harlot ? God forbid !
What ! know ye not that he which is joined to an harlot is one body ? for two,
saith he, shall be one flesh. But he that is joined unto the Lord is one spirit.'
1 Cor. 6: 15—17. '
Ye are the body of Christ, and members in particular.'
1 Cor. 12: 27. •
Know ye not your own selves, how that Jesus Christ is in
you, except ye be reprobates V 2 Cor. 13: 5. '
I live, yet not I, but Christ
liveth in me.' Gal. 2: 20. '
That Christ may dwell in your hearts by faith ;
that ye may be filled with all the fullness of God.' Eph. 3: 17, 19. ' We are
members of his body, of his flesh, and of his bones. For this cause shall a
man leave father and mother, and shall be joined unto his wife ; and they two
shall be one flesh. This is a great mystery ; but I speak concerning Christ
and the church.' Eph. 5: 30—32. '
The mystery which hath been hid from
ages and from generations, but now is made manifest to his saints : to vvhom
God would make known what is the riches of the glory of this mystery among
the Gentiles ; which is Christ in you the hope of glory.' Col. 1: 26, 27.
It is observable that Paul has two favorite symbols of the relation of Christ
to believers. He represents the church on the one hand as the bodz/ of
Christ, and on the other as his bride. In the first case the idea is, that Christ
is in the church as the soul is in the body ; and in the second case the same
idea is preserved by representing the wife as the complement of the husband
—bone of his bone and flesh of his flesh,—according to the saying, ' they
twain shall be one flesh.' And since the man is really within the woman, in
the true spiritual union of the sexes, as the soul is in the body, it is evident
that the two representations are substantially identical, while the marriage
symbol has this advantage of the other, that it sets forth the union of distinct
persons, which the relation of soul and body does not. Indeed on this account
the marriage relation, as it is partially expressed in externals, and as it exists
fully in the spiritual sphere, is a more perfect illustration of the unity of the
Father and the Son, and of the Son and the church, than any other. In
common thought, eating, drinking, and immersion, (which are among the New
Testament illustrations of the union of believers with Christ,) only conjoin a
person to a thing—life to matter. But marriage conjoins two persons—life
to life ; and that is the form of conjunction which exists in all the central unities.
We have, then, an idea of the two primary combinations of life—the unity
61
i
490 CONDENSATtON OF LIFE.
of the Father with the Son, and of the Son with the church. It remains to
complete the view, by looking at the unity of believers with each other. The
Erayer—' that they all may be one even as we are one'—implies on the one
and that men in the carnal state are separate and isolated in spirit, and on
the other, that it is possible for them to enter into that perfect unity with
each other which exists in the Godhead* It is safe to conceive of all the
friendship and fellowship which is known in the world of selfishness, as mere
lateral, superficial contact. Where there is sin, there is necessarily a cold,
dark reserve around the centre of life, which makes perfect entrance and in-
folding impossible. We have fellowship or absolute community [koinonia]
wdth each other^ only when *
we walk in the light as God is in the light ;' and
we thus walk in the light only when '
the blood of Jesus Christ cleanseth us
from all sin.' See 1 John 1: 7. It is obviously impossible in the nature of
things that the unity which w^e have defined should take place any farther
than there is a perfect willingness in individuals to sacrifice self-conceit, and
fall into the order of combination which the intrinsic spiritual value and ca-
pacity of each appoints. A series of boxes may be placed together laterally
without settling the question of precedence. But if they are to be reduced
to unity by being placed within each other, the order of their capacities must
be ascertained. The inveterate hankering of the uncircumcised heart for
precedence or equality may be consistent with the superficial combinations of
this world, but not with the unity of heaven. Before that can be attained
every spirit must rejoice to be not only male to a sphere without, but female
to a sphere within. In the whole succession of spirits the '
weaker vessels'
must consent to be filled by the stronger.
We will not undertake here to bring to view the whole code of laws which
tQust determine the combinations of individual spirits, but we will glance at two
or three of the more comprehensive principles of heavenly order. 1. The dis-
tinction of male and female creates a dualty consisting of an inner and outer
life. As the Father is the inner fullness of Christ, and as Christ is the inner
fullness of the universal sphere of the redeemed, so man is the inner fullness
of woman. This is said, not of the relations of individual men and women,
but of the relation of the whole man-spirit to the whole woman-spirit. 2. The
division of the church by the Jewish and Gentile dispensations, creates an-
other great dualty. The '
church of the first-born' will be the husband or
interior sphere of the church of the second resurrection. 3. The same dual
relation will exist between each spiritual laborer and that branch of the church
which he has won to Christ. These may serve as examples of an infinite se-
ries and variety of combinations, by which believers will be compacted and
* knit together.
The end will be, infinite repeatings and variations of the harmony
of the Father and the Son ; and God and man, male and female,
Jew and Gentile, great and small, will be one. This is what we mean by the
Condensation of Life,
The generic effect of the unity for which Christ prayed, will be to increase
the power of life in the whole body of behevers, and in individuals. The
advantages of compact external organization in the various physical enterpriser
CONDENSATION OP LIFE. 491
of commerce, war, &c., are well known. Bat the world knows little of the
energy which will result from the organization of spirits. In the first place,
when the Father and tlie Son, man and woman, Jew and Gentile, shall be-
come one by successive infoldings, the entire power and wisdom of the God-
head will be freely developed in every spirit which belongs to the great unit.
Spiritual power applied by external baptism, and working from the circum-
ference toward the centre, (which must be its form of action while intercourse
is lateral,) can produce but small results, in comparison with those which are
to be expected when life shall act in life, when God shall become in very
deed the soul of the church, and shall distribute his energies from the centre ^/
outward, as the heart sends its power into all the extremities of the body.
In the next place, the condensation of life which we have defined, will efiect
a transfer and distribution of all that is good in human nature, which will
make the gains of all past generations and the stores of the invisible church
available to believers in this world. It is evident, from the New Testament
representations of the atonement, that the power and wisdom of the Godhead
could not take efiect on human nature in the measure necessary to salvation,
without assuming a human organization, as its conductor. The advantage
which was gained by the incarnation of Christ, increases as his spiritual
body increases by the addition of perfected human nature in the persons of
his followers. In order therefore that we may estimate the energy of salva-
tion which will manifest itself in this world when the visible and invisible
churches shall be condensed into one, we must consider how many regenera*
ted human members Christ's body gained at the first resurrection, and what
amount of improvement has gone forward in that body during the eighteen
hundred years of their glory. All that is gained at the centre, is gained for
the whole sphere of concentric spirits. When the church of the first-born
shall become the inner life of a church in this world, the visible advancement
of human nature will take a stride of eighteen centuries in a single generation.
The physiologists tell us that the principle of hereditary transmission is the
key to all the problems of human degeneracy and human improvement. They
say that we of the present generation are the heirs of a bad organization, and
cannot expect for ourselves any great ameliorations of character and condition.
Their hope is, that in the course of several centuries, by a wise attention to the
laws of propagation, a generation of men will be produced whose organizations
will be adapted to millennial perfection. These are doubtless sober deduc-
tions from the facts which present themselves to scientific men, and would be
sound doctrines if those facts were all the premises which belong to the case.
But there is another and a mightier power than that of natural propagation, ^,
which can be brought to bear upon human nature. The deepr philosophy
of the Bible bids us look to regeneration more than to generation, for the ad-
vancement of the race. The spiritual transmission of qualities which will
result from the condensation of life, will modify human character, and human
organization too, (for life determines the character of its envelope,) more
effectually than hereditary transmission can do ; and the process, instead of
occupying centuries, and depending on the faithfulness of a series of faithless
generations, will advance to its consummation as rapidly as men can be brought -^
492 CONDENSATION OF LIFE.
by the attractions of the true gospel to surrender their spirits to God and merge
themselves in the central sphere of perfected human life which already envel-
ops Christ. Here is a short way to all the results which the physiologists
anticipate from their chimerical schemes of scientific marriages, and disinter-
ested painstaking for the benefit of future generations. God has in store for
us the concentrated results, not only of what he accomplished by natural prop-
agation in the ages before the advent of Christ, but of all that he has accom-
plished by spiritual propagation, in the invisible world, since his kingdom of
righteousness began. Who can estimate the treasures of life, love, wisdom,
virtue, civilization, refinement, and social perfection, which have been accu-
mulating for ages in the heavenly phalanx gathered and organized by Christ ?
And who can conceive of the glory which will burst upon this world when
those treasures shall be given to it—as they will be, when the visible church
shall yield itself as a bride to the invisible ?
We may consider, further, the more specific results of the condensation of
life. In perfecting individual character. Christ's prayer that his followers
might ' all he made perfect in one^ points evidently to the principle which
Paul so frequently illustrated by reference to the organization of the human
form, viz., that individuals are not made for perfection by themselves, and
can be perfected only by a combination with each other, like that which exists
between the different members of the body. An eye or an arm or a foot by
itself is a monstrosity. An entire set of these and other organs, with diverse
characteristics and offices, is necessary to make a perfect body. So men and
women, in the isolated state, are not capable of perfection. The characters
and adaptations of individuals are as diverse as those of the members of the
body. By nature, one man is like the eye, keen in discernment ; another,
like the hand, strong in action ; one is impetuous, another prudent ; one is
bold, another gentle. The good elements of life are distributed to the two
sexes in such a manner that man by himself is deficient in those beautiful
affections which abound in woman, and woman by herself lacks the strength
of heart and head w^hich belongs to man. The condensation of any two char-
acters into one, would improve both ; and the more diverse the two might be,
the greater would be the improvement. A great part of the immorality of
the world is only the result and index of isolation. Peculiarities in individ-
uals, which in combination with the counter peculiarities ^f olihers would be
wholesome and beautiful, acting by themselves^-are. odious and mischievous-.
By the unity of life to which Christ calls believers, the good elements of an
innumerable multitude of characters will be condensed into one, and the per-
fection of the compound will be transfused through every individual. It is
easy to see that the operation will develope magnificent treasures of right-
eousness and beauty.
The spiritual atmosphere in which individuals will grow and ripen, when
the life and love of God and of the millions of ih.Q human race, shall be con-
centrated in one glowing sphere, will be as different from that of the present
order of things as summer is from winter, or as the years of Palestine are
from those of Greenland. ' The desert shall rejoice and blossom as the rose.*
Education, in its highest and most valuable form, will be a natural growth.
CONDENSATION OF LIFE. 493
As plants, which in northern regions require hotbeds and tedious cultivation,
under the sun of the tropics grow spontaneously, so intellectual, moral and
physical life, under the sunshine of divine and human love, will spring up
with a rapidity, and bring forth fruit in an abundance, which will put to
shame the tillage of all our present schools for mind and body.
There is a close affinity, if not an identity, between life and heat, and be-
tween death and cold. The same effects can be produced upon the body by
spiritual elements acting from within, and by physical elements acting from
without. For instance, fear makes the body tremble, and the same effect is
produced by cold. Physical warmth is caused by warm affections, as really
as it is by fire or sunshine. It is as if the life of the body had two surfaces
—an inner and an outer—one of them exposed to the impressions of spiritual
elements, and the other to those of physical elements, and both, when affected,
acting upon the body in the same manner. The bread of this world infuses
life through the outer surface, and the bread of heaven infuses life through
the inner surface. The result in both cases is satisfaction and strength. One
of the results of the condensation of life will be, the bringing of these princi-
ples into the field against the powers of disease and death. When life shall
accumulate in unity, by the centripetal force of love, till all hearts shall radiate
and receive a perpetual sunshine of joy, it is not unphilosopical to beUeve that
the substantial physical results (at least so far as health is concerned) of an
actual amelioration of climate^ will be obtained. Though the outer surface
of life may be exposed to the cold of the North, yet if the inner surface dwells
in the warm regions of love, as it will when all shall be one, the body will have
many of the benefits of a genial climate ; and in proportion as the action of
the inner surface prevails over that of the outer, health will become indepen-
dent of the external elements, and death at last will lose his prey.
We have before us a sketch of the great miracle of unity for which
Christ offered his prayer and his fife, and by means of which he proposed
and still proposes to convince the world that God sent him on his mission of
love. Who will not heartily join in his prayer, and offer himself a sacrifice
for its fulfilment ?
§ 73. PRINCIPALITIES AND POWERS.
The governments that rule over the world bj law and sword, are objects
of much attention and interest to the mass of mankind. And well they may
be : for they have a mighty agency in shaping the character and working
out the destinies of their subjects. But, after all, viewed in the light of
spiritual philosophy, they are but inferior principalities—visible vehicles and
instruments of the powers of the invisible world. Believers in animal mag-
netism may surmise, and beUevers in the Bible may be sure, that there are
* thrones and dominions' over us, as much greater in dignity than the dynas-
ties of the external world, as the soul is greater than the body. ' We wres-
tle not against flesh and blood, but against principahties, against powers,
against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness
in heavenly places.'^* Eph. 6: 11. And with equal truth it may be said that
we wrestle not in the strength of flesh and blood, but ot principalities, of
powers, of the rulers of the light of the eternal world, of spiritual righteous-
ness in heavenly places.
Ascending, with the Bible for our guide, from the visible to the invisible
sphere, we find ttvo great spiritual empires, distinct and antagonistic, yet
ruling together, one above the other, over the kingdoms of this world.
Previous to the coming of Christ, Satan was the '
prince of this world,'
and could boast that all power on earth was delivered to him. Luke 4: 6.
He was the strong man armed who kept the palace of the world, and his
goods were in peace. Luke 11: 14. But a stronger than he came upon him
and bound him. When Christ triumphed over death and ascended up on
high, he became the head of all principality and power. Col. 2: 10. To him
was given the dominion which the devil had before claimed and exercised—
he became '
Prince of the kings of the earth.' Nevertheless the ncAV sove-
reign did not immediately abolish the principalities which Satan had estab-
lished, and banish his subject-spirits from the world. He only commenced
that administration which is to terminate in '
putting down all rule and all
authority and power.' 1 Cor. 15: 24. He proved his actual sovereignty,
first, at his second coming, by annihilating the Jewish hierarchy, which had
been the ascendant spiritual djniasty ; and afterwards, by establishing the
religion which bore his name and kept his records, on the ruins of the Roman
Empire, which had been the head of the political and heathen world. But
Satan was not immediately sent to his final doom—the lake of fire. . Though
he was dethroned and driven into the '
abyss' to remain a thousand years,
yet he found means to install '
the beast' as his successor and vicegerent
(Rev. 13: 2 ;) and to this day,—though Christ, with the army of the prim-
itive saints and the loyal angels, reigns over all nations with a rod of iron,
dashing them in pieces at his pleasure, and guiding all the elements of the
world to the issue of the final judgment,—yet at the same time, below him,
* Tlie word here rendered in our common version 'high places,' is the same as that
translated 'heavenly places,' in Eph. 1; 3, and 2: 6.
PRINCIPALITIES AND POWERS. 495
and in more immediate contact with mankind, an invisible kingdom of evil
demons, with Satan (now loosed again) at its head, covers and darkens the
face of the whole earth.
To illustrate the relative position of these two kingdoms—the good and the
evil,—we may compare the world to a city surrounded by two concentric
armies, the inner army besieging the city, and the outer army besieging the
inner. The city is rightfully in friendship with the outer army, and occasion-
ally communication is established between them. But while the siege lasts,
the inner army has the advantage over the city. Or, since the force by
which the invisible kingdoms rule, is spiritual, we may take an illustration
from Mesmerism. Suppose that one man magnetizes another till spiritual
identity is established between them, and then a stronger magnetizer com-
mences operations upon both. In this case the first subject would receive
the fluid from both magnetizers, and would be affected by the will and
thoughts of each by turns, till the strongest should entirely prevail. So Satan,
having first magnetized the whole w^orld, was overcome in the spiritual conflict
of the cross, and for eighteen hundred years has been subject, in conjunction
with the world, to the superior magnetism of Christ. The operation will end
in the separation of Satan from the world, his destruction, and the spiritual
unity of God and man. But for the present, the magnetism of both Christ
and Satan are at work upon the w^orld, producing a medley of incoherent and
conflicting results.
This view of the position and influence of the invisible powers, will help
spiritual persons to understand many mysterious phenomena in the move-
ments around them and in their own experience.
The manifestations of supernatural power and wisdom which are found in
connection with false and wicked systems of religion, and among the creden-
tials of deceivers and hypocrites, will not be wondered at or feared by those
who know that the hosts of evil as well as of good still occupy regions, which,
with reference to our position, are properly called ' heavenly places ;' and
thus are able to pour forth transcendental influences on those who are in af-
finity with them, in this world. The pretences of false spiritualists to miracles
and inspirations, need not be denied and derided. Admitting the reality of
such manifestations, the believer who has learned that his warfare is '
not
with flesh and blood,' may boldly resist them, as emanations, not from the
upper sanctuary, but from the spiritual wickedness of the lower heavens.
Again, when the believer first opens his heart to the spiritual world, and is
conscious of the blessed influences of the spirit of heaven, he is apt to imagine
that he is out of the reach of all evil spirits, and that the day of glory which
has dawned upon him will never be sullied by a cloud. Whereas the truth
is, by emerging from the visible to the invisible world, he is placed in more
immediate contact with the powers of darkness than he was before. He has
entered into private communication with the outer army, and according to
the instructions given him, he has passed out of the city and is on his way to
his friends. He may rejoice that he is called to the escape, but he will find
ere long that the whole breadth of the enemies' camp hes between him and
the end of liis journey. The same spiritual change which has made him
49G PRINCIPALITIES AND POWERS.
sensitive to the magnetism of Christ, has also bared the fibres of his soul to
the magnetism of Satan. All our experience and observation bids us warn
those who are entering upon a spiritual life, to expect suffering as well as
But there is abundant encouragement, as well as warning, in the views
w^e have presented. When spiritual suffering comes, inexperienced believers
are prone to suspect themselves of sin, and to admit a spirit of self-accusation.
But let them learn that by the very nature of their condition they are ex-
posed to malignant, as well as benign influences, and they will impute the
darkening of their spirits not to the displeasure of God or to their sins, but
to the magnetism of that evil one who poured an agony on the pure soul of
Christ. Much of the spiritual tribulation for which conscientious persons
are ever ready to blame themselves, is unquestionably the effect of causes
as far above their control, as the clouds which darken a summer's day.
A child may cry when the heavens are overcast, and the chill of the coming
storm is felt ; but a wise man will button his coat and wait patiently till the
cloud is past, not blaming himself, nor doubting that the blue heavens are
still above him, and that fair weather will come again.
Spiritual believers are often conscious of astonishing changes of feeling, for
which they can assign no cause. To-day every thing seems green and hope-
ful ; the universe smiles upon them, and they sit with Christ in heavenly plar
ces.' To-morrow they are cast down, and see nothing but evil within and
without. They have not varied their course of life at all, and the change
seems unaccountable. But let them consider their relations to the good and
evil kingdoms which are in conflict over them, and the mystery will vanish.
To-day the upper magnetism prevails, and they rejoice : to-morrow the lower
magnetism prevails, and they are sad. The change is not in them, but in the
spiritual atmosphere which is upon them. Let them learn to hold on their
way through such changes, with unwavering faith and patience, and without
wondering.
It is the business of the believer's life to break through and overcome the
principalities of the lower kingdom, and effect a permanent and perfect
junction with the kingdom of Christ. This is the '
good fight'—the ^ fight
of faith.' The conditions of it should be w^ell understood ; and, first of all,
that condition which most directly results from the facts which we have sta-
ted, viz., that the issues of the good fight are not dependent on human
strength and skill. Individual conflicts are parts of the one great battle be-
tween the powers of heaven and hell. Every believer, however he may iso-
late himself in his own imagination, and set up his own wisdom and will as his
bulwarks against evil, is, after all, little more than a passive battle-field, on
which the invisible hosts contend. As the combat thickens, he may expect
to find himself, like a disputed point on a field . swept by charging battalions,
taken and retaken many times over by opposing forces. But God will tri-
umph—good will finally hold possession of the field. This is the believer's
hope. His interest in the conflict is not a matter of mere individual concern,
but a public interest. God and the armies of heaven have their eye on him,
and will take care that their cause—the cause of universal good—shall not
OUR RELATIONS TO THE PRIMITIVE CHURCH. 497
be defeated in him. All the strength of the Godhead and its legions shall
be concentrated on him, if necessary to his security and triumph.
Separated as we are from the upper church, by interposing hosts of evil,
we must nevertheless conceive of ourselves as effectually identified with that
church. There is no truth, and no comfort, in the notion that one division
of the church of Christ is exclusively '
triumphant,' and the other merely
* militant.' The whole army of believers, whether in heaven or on earth, is
yet '
militant,' and will not cease to be till every part of it is ' triumphant.'
The two divisions in which it exists for the present, are alike interested and
active in the war with evil, and operate in concert against the forces betvv'een
them. And their separation enables them to attack at once the front and
rear of the enemy's position. They are externally divided, that the enemy
may place himself between them. But they are riveted together at the cen-
tre, and will at last come together like shear-blades, and cut the spirit of evil
asunder.
§ 74. OUR RELATIONS TO THE PRIMITIVE CHURCH.
Protestants, in the excess of their aversion to the superstitious and idol-
atrous practices of the Romish church, have certainly abandoned some im-
portant truths which that church really derived from apostolic tradition,
though it has perverted and disguised them till they seem abominable false-
hoods. Among the truths that have been thus abandoned, we reckon the
doctrine of the spiritual presence and mediation of the invisible church, on
which the popish practices of the invocation of the saints, the w^orship of
the virgin Mary, &c., are founded. While the papist's view of the spiritual
world is so darkened with clouds of saints that he sees but dimly the Father
and the Son, the protestant's view, on the other hand, is so narrowed
by his jealousy of saint-worship, that he sees nothing hut the Father and the
Son ; and ' the church of the first-born' is to him as a nonentity. The true
view avoids both of these extremes.
The apostles, prophets, and believers, who w^ere gathered into Christ during
the period preceding the destruction of Jerusalem, are certainly still in exis-
tence. This no one doubts. They are risen from the dead, and glorified
with Christ. This no one will deny, who believes that Christ came the
second time according to his promise. But have they any concern with this
world ? Are they not laid away in some secret mansion of the universe, so
distant that they have nothing to do with us or we with them ? These are
questions to which conscience as well as curiosity demands an answer.
The fact that the primitive church has passed through death into the invis-
ible state, does not prove that it has no concern with this world. Christ died,
and the world saw him no more. He rose from the dead, ascended up on
high and took his seat in an invisible mansion. Was this the end of Lis opera-
62
498 OUR RELATIONS TO THE PRIMITIVB dHtRCIT.
tions in this world ? No ; we might rather say it was only the beginning.
But the primitive saints followed him in his resurrection and ascension, and have
since been with him in the world of spirits. Why then should they not share
in his continued operations on this world ? and why should not their transi*
tion from the visible to the invisible state be like his, the beginning instead of
the end of their highest ministry to mankind ? Their union with him in spirit
is certainly not less intimate since their departure, than it was while they were
in the flesh. Can we suppose that they are not still as much united with him
in ageiicy as they were in the apostolic age ? They were then called '
his
hody^ members of Ms flesh and of his hones.'' They are still his body—still
identified with him as the members are with the head. Is it conceivable that
the head should be engaged with the aifairs of this world, while the body and
members have nothing to do with it ? They who speak of Christ as '
the great
Head of the church,' ought to remember that he is the head, first of all, of the
primitive church, and that the apostles, prophets, and believers in whom he
was first revealed, are still his members, and still to be recognized and hon-
ored with him as his agents of salvation, certainly not less efiicient and glorious
now than they were eighteen hundred years ago.
"We have very clear and direct testimony in scripture to the fact that the
primitive saints, at their transition from the visible to the invisible world, en-
tered into an enlarged sphere of co-agency with Christ. In the parable of
the talents, (which relates directly to the judgment of the second coming,
see Matt. 25: 14,) the good servants who had been faithful over a few things
were made '
rulers over many things,' and so entered into the joy of their
Lord. He that had gained ten pounds was made ruler over ten cities in the
kingdom of his master. See Luke 19: 17. Now the kingdom which was
given to Christ at his resurrection, and which he began to administer at his
second coming, embraced '
all power in heaven and on earth.' See Matt. 28:
18. The stations which, according to the parable, he was to assign to to his
faithful servants, as their rewards at his coming, were of course offices in that
kingdom—i. e. offices of power on earth as well as in heaven. The partici-
pation of the primitive saints in the administration of Christ's kingdom after
the second advent, is clearly predicted and promised in the following passages:
'Jesus said unto them. Verily I say unto you, that ye which have followed me
in the regeneration, when the Son of man shall sit in the throne of his glory,
ye also shall sit upon twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel.'
Matt. 19: 28. * I appoint unto you a Kingdom, as my Father hath appoint-
ed unto me : that ye may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom, and sit
on thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel.' Luke 22: 29, 30. 'He
that overcometh, and keepeth my works unto the end, to him will I give pow-
er over the nations : and he shall rule them with a rod of iron ; as the vessels
of a potter shall they be broken to shivers : even as I received of my Father.'
Rev. 2: 26, 27. 'To him that overcometh will I grant to sit with me in my
throne, even as I also overcame, and am set down with my Father in his
throne.' Rev. 8: 21. The fulfilment of these promises is recorded in the
song of the four and twenty elders: '
Thou hast redeemed us to God by thy
blood, . . * and hast made us unto our God, kings and priests ; and we shall
OUR RELATIONS TO THE PRIMITIVE CHURCH. 499
reign on the earth.' Rsv. 5: 10. And it is declared in a subsequent vis-
ion that these kings and priests '
lived and reigned with Christ a thousand
years.' Rev. 20: 4—6.
It is evident then that the primitive saints have something to do with us,
since thej are kings and priests unto God over the earth. But have we any
thing to do with them 'i Can we in any way practically recognize them as
our kings and priests, or must we put them out of view, and so merge them
in Christ as to account them nonentities in his kingdom. We ought to pon-
der this question without any of the prejudices which the idolatries of popery
have engendered among protestants. It may well be doubted whether Christ
will not be as much displeased with those who altogether neglect to recognize
his officers, as with those who worship them.
But are they in any way accessible to us ? Certainly they are, if Chrisfc
is accessible ; for they are with him—' members of bis flesh and of his bones.'
If we can have intercourse with the head, why not with the body ? Precisely
the same kind of unbelief prevents free access to them as that which shuts
Christ out of the world, and puts God far away into the heavens. And pre-
cisely the same kind of faith as that which opens free communication with the
Father and the Son, will also give access to the apostles, prophets, and gen-
eral assembly of the primitive church. Like Christ they are spiritual beings;
like him they are reigning on the earth by spiritual influences ; and like him
they may be seen, received, and fellowshiped by spiritual faith. We can have
nothing to do with Christ or any part of his kingdom, otherwise than by that
faith which is the '
evidence of things not seen ;'
and by the same faith we
can open communication with the kings and priests whom he has set over us.
The first thing to be done, in order that we may have access to God, is, to
believe that '
he is, and is a reivarder of them that dilige7itly seek him.''
Then we '
feel after him' with our hearts, and converse with him through his
word. So the first thing to be done in order that we may have fellowship
with the primitive church, is to believe that it is a real, living churchy and is
at work over us and around us. Then our hearts will go forth to it,-—we
shall acquaint ourselves with its spiritual history and position, and so shall
become conscious members of it and partakers of its blessings. If there is a
way for us to be joined to the Lord in a sense that is valuable and substantial,
then there is a way for us to join the primitive church in a sense that is
equally valuable and substantial.
It is not necessary that we should luorship the invisible saints, in order
that we may enter into their fellowship. They have no disposition to inter-
cept any portion of the adoration which is due to the Most High, as we are
assured by such facts as that recorded in Rev. 22: 8, 9. But there is cer-
tainly no more impropriety in our soliciting their intercessions, than there is
in our asking a visible friend to intercede for us. If a man may call for the
elders of the church on earth to pray for him, there is certainly nothing to
forbid his calling for the elders of the church in heaven to do the same. The
Rom m Catholics might well maintain their ground against the protestants,
if they went no further than tliis. As members of Christ, the primitive
church are in some sense ' priests,' and unquestionably take part in his medi-.
atorial office between God and the world.
600 OUR RELATIONS TO THE PRIMITIVE CHURCH,
The relation which ought to be established between the believer on earth
and the invisible church, is simply that which he might properly enter into
with a visible Christian church. Suppose the apostolic church were now on
earth. A man might certainly join it without worshiping its saints. He
might commune with them, and join their worship of the Father. He might
receive their instructions, so far as they were wiser than he. He might sub-
mit himself to their pastorship, so far as the Holy Ghost had made them his
overseers. All this would be perfectly consistent with his allegiance to God,
and in fact favorable and necessary to its fruitfulness. So our spirits may
join the church of the first-born, we may commune and worship with them,
we may learn from them and submit to them, without turning away from
God.
The invisible primitive church is, in reality, what the Roman church false-
ly pretends to be,—the holy, apostolic, catholic, mother-church. The true
church of God in the Christian dispensation is not, like the old Jewish church,
changeable and transmissive. The priests under the law were many, ' because
they were not suffered to continue by reason of death.' But Christ has
bridged over the chasm which death makes between this world and heaven.
'
This man, because he continiieth ever, hath an unchangeable priesthood.'
Jleb. 7: 23, 24. But he does not continue ever in this tvorld. He died
and passed into the invisible world. Why did he not give his place and au-
thority to a successor, if the Jewish and popish principle of a transmissive
priesthood was to have place in the Christian dispensation ? His priesthood
is unchangeable, because, though he died, he is risen from the dead, and still
lives with entire abihty to wield all power in heaven and on earth. For the
very same reason the priesthood of the apostles and prophets is unchangeable.
They are risen with him, and still live, fully competent to share in the admin-
istration of his kingdom. The pope says he is the successor of St. Peter.
"Why does he not go for the whole, and say that he is the successor of Christ ?
He might just as well claim Christ's throne, as Peter's bishopric. As cer-
tainly as Christ is still the chief corner stone of the church, so certainly Pe-
ter is still its '
rock,' and the apostles and prophets are its foundations. The
Ghristian church is a unit, that has never changed (except as it has been
enlarged by accretion) since Christ gathered it and appointed its officers
eighteen hundred years ago. It has not left its place to a successor, because,
like its Head, it 'continueth ever.' Any gathering of religionists, other than
Christ, the apostles, prophets and primitive believers, that calls itself the
holy, catholic, apostolic, mother-church, and claims honor and authority cor-
responding to its title, is an impostor as vile as one who should forge a will,
affix to it his father's signature, put it in probate, and claim possession of his
patrimony before his father's death.
Papists tell us that there is no salvation, or at most, nothing but the 'uncov-
enanted mercies of God,' out of the pale of the holy CathoHc church. This,
though it is false as applied to the papal hierarchy, is in an important sense
true as applied to '
the church of the first-born.' Christ gave the '
power of
the keys' to his apostles and the church first gathered. John 20: 23, Matt.
18: 18. But they never gave them to any successors. They have them
OUR RELATIONS TO THE PRIMITIVE CHURCH. 601
still. The promise which was given them that they should remit and retain
sins, and bind and loose for heaven, is to be referred to their '
unchangeable
priesthood,' and not merely to their visible ministry. They have been far
better qualified for the tremendous function of deciding the destinies of men,
since they ascended their thrones in the everlasting kingdom, than they were
in the days of their flesh. After eighteen hundred years of sinless experi-
ence, they are certainly far safer depositaries of the keys of heaven than the
transient priests of popery. In their invisible ministry they are commissioned
to judge men, and even angels. 1 Cor. 6: 2, 3. They are our judges ; and
we shall all find at last that there is no entrance into the holy city but through
the twelve apostolic gates—that what popery falsely claims, the primitive
church actually possesses, viz. the power of salvation and damnation.
These are the views which are destined in due time to settle the world-wide
controversies about •
apostolic succession.' The grand question, on which all
Christendom is disputing viz., Which is the ti^ue chiirchf—will at last be an-
swered to the consciences of all honest believers, without their being required
to grope under ground all the way back to the apostolic age after the creden-
tials of Christ's ministers. Instead of seeking connection with the primitive
church by the subterranean process, we shall find that church, after its invis-
ible flight of eighteen hundred years, soaring over us and descending upon us,
living, organized, and accessible. Popery will have for its competitor none
of the ^potsherds of the earth' with which it has heretofore striven, but, that
very church from which it pretends to derive its authority—the body-guard
of Him who sitteth upon the throne.
It is the policy of the Christian dispensation to turn the hearts of believers
from the visible to the spiritual world. Christ left his disciples and estab-
lished his head-quarters in heaven, that he might give an upward, instead of
a horizontal, direction to their spiritual affections. In like manner he has pro-
vided for Christendom a church high above the level on which all the visible
sects stand, the attraction of which will draw faith upward toward the unseen
world, and toward God. The best cravings of all true hearts for church-fellow-
ship, and church-privileges, will ultimately be turned toward the invisible
centre of Christianity, where Christ himself and his glorious kings and priests
occupy the stations which popes and cardinals and bishops and doctors of
divinity, arrogate to themselves in the counterfeit hierarchies of this world.
Those cravings will then be satisfied, and never till then.
As the invisible church extends itself into this world by attaching to itself
individual believers, subordinate visible churches may be formed. But they will
not be representative, '
vicegerent' churches. They will not claim possession
of the world by virtue of a traditionary will, and under the pretence that the
primitive church is dead. They will be branches, not whole trees by them-
selves ; and as fast as their affiliation to the parent stock proceeds, the par-
tition between heaven and earth Avill be broken down—the distinction between
the '
church militant' and the '
church triumphant' will be repudiated. But
whether these visible branches exist or not, whoever wishes to join the true
church, must first of all seek fellowship with the central organization ; and he
need not regard his fellowship with any visible organization as a matter of life
i
502 OUR RELATIONS TO THE PRIMITIVE CHURCH.
and death. When the idea that the original apostolic church is yet alive,
and present to the world, overshadowing all things, and vested with supreme
judicial authority, shall swell to its proper dimensions in the minds of believers,
(as it will, when they become truly spiritual,) the pretensions of all visible
sects that claim the keys of the kingdom of heaven by virtue of '
apostolical
succession,' or in any other way, will sink into insignificance. Every eye
will turn from the body to the soul of Christianity.
Papists and others insist that an outward, visible church-organization is a
necessary part of the apparatus of salvation, for the same reason as that which
made the incarnation of Christ necessary, i. e., because men must be drawn
to God through human sympathies ; and for that purpose the divine nature,
at the point of contact with the world, must be clothed in human nature.
This is the strong point of Brownson's argument for the Catholic church.
He maintains that if there is no true church on earth, then the line of com-
munication with the Godhead is broken, and we must wait for a new recon-
ciliation. To this we reply, there is a spiritual as well as a visible element
in human nature, and communication with the Godhead is opened through
spiritual sympathies, rather than through visible acts and organizations. But
so far as spiritual sympathies are concerned, we are in as good position for
entering into fellowship with the invisible primitive church, as we are for
entering into fellowship with the pope and his cardinals. The latter, as well
as the former, are invisible to all except the few who can travel to Rome ; and
the former certainly have more spiritual power, and extension of spiritual
presence than the latter. The union of God with human nature is not proved
to be broken by the fact that no visible conductor exists. What visible con-
ductor was concerned in the descent of the Spirit on the day of Pentecost ?
Christ was in the heavens, and the disciples, before that event, had not re-
ceived the power of the Christian dispensation. The divine nature descended
upon them, not through the bodily presence of Christ, but through his invisible
human nature. So all the riches of the Godhead may come to us through
the human nature of the first-born church, though it is Avith Christ in the
heavens. The disciples had received the external word of Christ before their
baptism, and thereby were in initial communication with him. So wo have
received the external word of Christ and his apostles, through the Bible, and
thereby are in initial communication with them. Not a link of the original
chain is wanting. By the very nature of things, if man is to be drawn into
unity with God, the first step of the process must be to turn his face from the
visible to the spiritual world—to give his faith an ascending direction. By
the horizontal faith which a visible church evokes, he can make no approach
to God.
Far be it from us to undervalue the agency of human sympathies in the
machinery of salvation. But we cannot admit that the humanity of Jesus
' Christ is destroyed, or its efficiency as a conductor of the divine nature frus-
trated, because he has passed into the heavens. And no more can we admit
that the apostolic church is incompetent to fulfil the functions of a spiritual
V mother, because it is invisible. We discern in that church, unseen as it is,
J a vast accumulation o^ perfected human sympathies, which, when faith shall
r admit them to action in this world, will produce efiocts which will amaze the
-OUR RELATIONS TO THE PRIMITIVE CHURCH. 503
most hopeful expectants of the day of redemption. God is manifest in the
flesh at the present time, on a scale of which few have any conception. Most
persons are gazing into the heavens through a very narrow tube. They see
but one '
bright particular star,' while the whole firmament is studded with
constellations. Jesus Christ in his own person is regarded as the only incar-
nation of God ; whereas he is but the head of a great spiritual body which
includes the persons of all the primitive believers ; and in that whole body
dwells the fullness of the Godhead. In an important sense it may be said
that instead of one Christ, we have above us at least a hundred and forty-
four thousand Christs ! So far as human sympathies are concerned, the pow-
er of salvation which God gained by the incarnation of his Son, has since been
multiplied by the number of all the perfected members of his body.
We apprehend that it is the recognition of this glorious truth throughout
Christendom, that is wanted more than any thing else, to re-open the primi-
tive free communication between heaven and earth. Men are looking on the
one hand to their visible churches, and on the other to Jesus Christ in his in-
dividual person—while they know not the glory, and hardly the existence of
the great thousand-fold conductor of heavenly power which God has prepared
in the church which surrounds his Son. God will pour himself out upon the
world only through his appointed channels. His saints, as well as their King,
are to come and be 'admired' in the day of his power. 2Thess. 1: 10.
The faith of Christendom must be enlarged, to behold in the clouds of heaven
not only the Father and the Son, but the '
sacramental host' of apostles,
prophets and primitive believers, before the second Pentecost will come. The
alienation of Christendom, not from popery, but from the invisible mother-
church, is the great breach to be repaired, in order that the divine and hu-
man natures may flow together, and '
the knowledge of the Lord cover the
earth as the waters cover the sea.'
The primitive church is a political as well as ecclesiastical organization/^
Christ and his officers are kings, as well as priests. In the kingdom of
heaven, the church is the state, and the state is the church. One cabinet
administers both religious and political affairs. As we have urged all who
are seeking the true church to set their faces toward the spiritual centre, sa
we might by the same considerations urge all who are seeking the true form
of government, the national organization commissioned and destined of heaven
to universal and perpetual dominion on earth as well as in heaven, to turn
away from 'American institutions,' French theories, and British predictions,
toward the nation that God has founded in the heavens. The true form of
government is not a thing which remains yet to be worked out and tested.
It was invented at least eighteen hundred years ago, and has been in actual
operation ever since the destruction of Jerusalem. We may say of it, as we
say of salvation—' It is finished.' When God laid the foundations of the
New Jerusc lem, he gave the world its Capital. When he set his Son upon
the throne, he established a political nucleus, which will ultimately gather
about itself in federal union, the nations of the earth, or dash them in pieces.
So the true plan of Association, about which many in these days are busily
scheming, is not a matter oi future discovery and experiment. The church
I
504 OUR RELATIONS TO THK PRLMITIVB CHURCH.
of the first-born has been for ages working out in theory and practice, all the
problems of social science. If Fourier has had access to the heavenly model,
and has based his theories on the actual experiments of the citizens of the
New Jerusalem, his system will stand. If not, it will be consumed when the
fire shall try every man's work.
In short, the aim of all who aspire to be reformers of church, state, and
society, should be, and we trust soon will be, not to arrange in some new
form the patch-work of visible institutions, or to devise new schemes of their
own, but to enter into amicable and intimate relations with the ecclesiastical,
national, and social Phalanx which commenced a settlement on the everlast-
ing mount eighteen hundred years ago, and is doubtless now ready to lay be-
fore the world the results of its labors and investigations. To all who rever-
ence antiquity ; to all who look beyond and above themselves for wisdom
to all who are sick of existing institutions, and the air-castles of crude refor-
mers ; to all who long for a tried, immovable, divine basis of religious, polit-
ical and social organization, we ofier this advice: 'Open communication
with the Primitive Church; labor and pray that THE will OF GoD MAY BE
DONE ON EARTH AS IT IS DONE IN HEAVEN.'
THE END,
