{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1847__salverte___the_philosophy_of_magic.pdf","mytitle":"The Philosophy Of Magic","mylang":"de"}
THE OCCULT SCIENCES.
I
THE
PHILOSOPHY OF MAGIC,
PRODIGIES, AND APPARENT MIRAC1ES.
FROM THE FRENCH OF
EUSEBE SALVERTE.
WITH NOTES ILLUSTRATIVE, EXPLANATORY,
AND CRITICAL,
BY ANTHONY TODD THOMSON, M.D., F.L.S., &c.
“ Non igitur oportet nos rnagicis illusionibus uti, cum potestas philoso-
phica doceat operari quod sufficit.”—Rog. Bacon, De eecr. Oper. Art. et
Nat., c. v.
IN TWO VOLUMES.
VOL. I.
NEW YORK:
HARPER & BROTHERS, PUBLISHERS,
82 CLIFF STREET.
1 84 7.
Digitized by UooQle
233670
Digitized by
PREFACE BY THE AUTHOR.
Is not the history of civilization, in the most
extended sense of this word, the history ofman­
kind in a social state, one of the most important
of all our studies ?
About twenty years ago, consulting less my
talents than my zeal, I undertook to retrace
this history, and in 1813 I published an intro­
duction,
* in order to give an idea of the man­
ner in which I thought it should be treated.
This essay received some encouragement,
which only convinced me of the necessity of
examining more profoundly so important a sub­
ject. The history and origin of the sciences
occupied a large place in those researches in
which I was engaged, and I was soon convinced
that it was impossible to have a just idea of the
extent to which the sciences had been carried
among the ancients, without examining the kind
of knowledge employed by the founders of
those sciences in working th$ wonders related
in their annals. In the course of this inquiry, I
discovered that much information was shut up
* De la Civilisation depuis les premiers Temps Historiques
jusqu’a lafin du xviiie si&cle, Introduction,
Digitized by
iv PREFACE BY THE AUTHOR.
in the temples, and employed there, during
many ages, to excite either wonder or fear;
but, in the flight of time, decaying and at last
fading altogether away, leaving behind only
imperfect traditions, which have since been
ranked as fables. The attempts to restore life
to these ancient intellectual monuments accom
*
plished a part of my task, which, at the same
time, filled up a great period in the history of
the human mind. My treatise on this object
soon became too ample to form merely a part
of the principal work for which it was original
ly intended. It was easy to detach it, although
connected with the object which I had propose
ed to myself to attain; and thus separated, it
forms a whole, susceptible of special interest.
. I shall content myself with bearing in re-
*
membrance the principle which has guided me
in my various researches: that principle which
distinguishes two very strongly marked formy
of civilization, the fixed form, which formerly
governed almost the whole world, and which
still subsists in Asia; and the perfectible form,
which more or less reigns throughout Europe^
although it is not there fully developed; nor
has it, as yet, borne all those fruits which its el­
ements permit us to anticipate in its progress^
to perfection.
In 1817 I published, in the “ Esprit des Jour-.
~ byCjOO^lC
PREFACE BY THE AUTHOR. V
(July volume), an article, in which those
principles were pointed out, which are here
more fully developed, and many of the facts
and arguments on which they rest. I only
mention this on account of the date, that I may
not be accused of having borrowed, from some
works which have appeared more recently,
those ideas and explanations which I have now
a right to reproduce, since they were original­
ly my own. Far from deceiving myself other­
wise on the insufficiency of this first essay, I
have remodeled it entirely, and looked it over
several times, with the assistance and advice
learned and benevolent men.
• The first edition of this book, published in
1829, being entirely sold, I found it necessary,
in preparing a second, to take advantage of
•those criticisms which had been addressed to
me, and of the numerous observations that my
subsequent studies had furnished. The theory
which guided me remains the same; I shall
sum it up in a few words.
1. When the improbability of a fact is the
chief objection to the belief in its reality, the
evidence which attests it regains all its value,
if the improbability be proved to be only appa­
rent. Can a similar test be applied with suc­
cess to the greater part of the prodigies and
assumed miracles related by the ancients ? It
Digitized by UooQle
Vi PREFACE BY THE AUTHOR.
is more reasonable, then, to admit the truth of
the facts, and the accuracy of their explanation,
than to condemn as impostures those recitals,
of which modern discoveries have frequently
demonstrated the truth.
2. It is an incontestable fact, that anciently
science, and more especially that science which
was confined to the temples, was enveloped in
a thick veil to conceal it from the eyes of the
vulgar; and that it was employed to produce
wonderful works fitted to subdue the obstinacy
and credulity of the people, is a supposition so
natural, that it will be difficult to oppose it, at
least by any sound reasons. In the marvelous
recitals which have been handed down to our
times, some of this mystical learning may be
discovered; and in prosecuting the research,
we endeavor to complete the history of science
and of mankind.
Digitized by UooQle
BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH
OP
M. SALVERTE,
PROM AN ORATION SPOKEN OVER HIS GRAVE
BY M. FRANCOIS ARGAO,
MEMBER OP THE CHAMBER OP DEPUTIES AND OP THE INSTITUTE.
Salverte was born at Paris in 1771. His
father, who filled a high situation in the admin­
istration of finance, destined him for the magis­
tracy. At eighteen, after a brilliant course of
study at the College of Juilly, Salverte entered
at the Chatelet as an avocat du roi. At this
period France awoke from a long and profound
torpor. With the calmness which is always
the true characteristic of strength, but with the
energy which a good cause can not fail to in­
spire, her children demanded on all sides the
abolition of despotic government. The voice
of the people proclaimed that the distinction of
caste wounded at once human dignity and com­
mon sense; that all men should weigh equally
in the scale of justice; that religious opinions
Digitized by UooQle
Viii BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF ‘SALVERTE.
can not, without crime, be subject to the inves­
tigation .of political authority.
Salverte had too rquch penetration not to
perceive the vast extent of reform which these
great principles would introduce, and. not to
foresee that the brilliant career on which he
had just entered might be closed to him for­
ever. Behold, then, the young avocat du roi,
from his first entrance into life, obliged tQ weigh
his opinions as a citizen against his private in­
terest. A thousand examples demonstrate that
ih these circumstances the ordeal is harsh, the
decision doubtful; let us hasten to declare that
^he patriotism of Salverte carried it by main
.force; our colleague, without a moment’s hesi-
lation, ranked himself with the most eager and
conscientious partisans of our glorious political
regeneration. When, after a time, a culpable
opposition and the insolent interference of for­
eigners had thrown the country into disorder,
Salverte, with all the superior classes,was deep­
ly afflicted. He foresaw the advantage that
would be taken of it, sooner or later, by the en
*
emies of the liberty of the people; but his reas­
onable grief did not detach him from the cause
of progression. He was deprived of the situa­
tion he held in the office of foreign affairs; he
answered this unmerited brutality by request­
ing an examination by a commission as an offi-t
Digitized by UooQle
•BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF SALVERTE. ix
uer of engineers, and a mission to the army.
The prejudices of the time caused the son of a
ferrnier-g&ri&ral to be refused military service;
Salverte, however, not discouraged, requested
nt least to be allowed to be useful to his coun­
try in a civil career. He entered, therefore,
as a pupil, the College of Civil Engineers, and
soon afterward became one of its most zeal­
ous tutors.
Salverte was too good a Frenchman to re­
main insensible to the glories of the empire; he
was, on the other hand, too friendly to liberty
not to perceive the heavy and firmly riveted
•chains that covered the abundant harvests of
laurels. He never let fall from his lips or his
pen a word of praise that could swell the tor­
rent of adulation, which so soon led astray the
hero of Castiglione and of Rivoli. '
' Our colleague devoted the whole period of
the existence of the empire to retirement and
study. During that time he became, by perse­
vering labor, one of the most learned men of
our age, in languages, science, and political
economy.
Salverte was not mistaken as to the reaction
of the measures into which the second restora­
tion would be inevitably led to precipitate itself.
He thought that, in spite of the explicit word­
ing of the capitulation of Paris, the thunderbolt
A 2
Digitized by UooQle
X BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF SALVERTE.
of political passions would fall upon many
of our military leaders; he guessed that these
sanguinary acts would be excited, or at least
encouraged, by the allied generals; he fore­
saw that in the South those odious dragonnades
would be renewed which history has ranked
among the darkest stains in the reign of Louis
XIV. He felt his heart oppressed by the pros­
pect of so direful a future. He resolved, above
all, to avoid the humiliating spectacle of the mil­
itary occupation of France, and he therefore
set out for Geneva. Madame Salverte, so em­
inently distinguished, so capable of understand­
ing and of entering into his noble feelings—
whose fate it had been to be united to two men,
*
who in different modes have done equal honor
to France—accompanied her husband in this
voluntary exile, which lasted for five years.
The public and political life of Salverte only
commenced, properly speaking, in 1828. In
that year one of the electoral districts, compos­
ed of the third and fifth municipal districts of
Paris, confided to our friend the honor of rep­
resenting it in the Chamber of Deputies. With
a few weeks’ interruption, he ever afterward
retained this honor ;f and during the eleven
* M. de Fleurieu, who was successively Minutre de la Ma­
rine, Stnateur, and Governor of the Tuileries—and M. E. Sal
*
verte.
t In 1839, at the time of the general election, M. E. Salverte
Digitized by UooQle
BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF SALVERTE. 11
years of his legislative career, he was a model
ofhonesty and independence, zeal and assiduity.
Our age is essentially a writing age. Many
persons have doubted the necessity of the innu­
merable official distribution of speeches, re­
ports, tables, and statistics of all kinds, which
daily overrun our abodes. It is even said that
not one deputy has ever had the time or the
perseverance to read the whole of these pam­
phlets ; but I am mistaken, gentlemen; one ex­
ception is cited by the public, and that excep­
tion is M. Salverte. .
There is not a single person who, casting
aside party feeling, does not hasten to do hom­
age to the integrity of the deputy of the fifth
district of Paris. Perhaps the same justice has
not been rendered in other particulars. The
ambitious Salverte, since I am forced to con­
nect two words so little suited to each other,
never accepted a single one of those gewgaws,
which, under the name of decorations, crosses,
and ribbons, are so strenuously sought after by
all classes of society. The ambitious Salverte,
was paralyzed, almost dying; the electors of the fifth district of
Paris, who knew the desperate state of their former deputy, wish­
ed, nevertheless, to render him a last homage in again choosing
him to represent them; and M. Salverte, without the slightest
canvass, was re-elected by an immense majority. This homage,
so rare at the period in which we live, was as honorable to those
who bestowed it as to him who received it.
Digitized by
*xii .BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF SALVERTE.
jafter the three immortal days, refused the im-
.portant place of director-general of the posts.
•Still later, the ambitious Salverte replied to an
offer of a ministerial appointment, by demand­
ing conditions so distinct, so precise, so liberal,
that they were in his opinion, as they proved
io be in fact, equivalent to a formal refusal.
When we recollect the excessive readiness of
legislative votes on matters of taxation, the re­
serve, the rigidness of Salverte, far from being
a cause of reproach, presents to me the most
honorable feature of his Parliamentary career.
On questions where the honor, the dignity, or
•the liberty of France was concerned, the vote
of our colleague was certain.
Is it not principally to the deep indignation,
io the passionate repugnance, that every insti­
tution opposed to the strict rules of morality,
that existed in the noble and elevated heart of
pur friend, that the town of Paris owes the sup­
pression of those privileged houses, peopled by
agents of the police, which were hideous gain­
ing houses, in which the honor and fortune of
families were daily swallowed up ? The mem­
ory of Salverte has nothing to fear from the
poisoned darts of calumny.
Digitized by Gooolc
PREFACE BY THE EDITOR.
The author of the following work, one of
great erudition and research, has endeavored to
establish a theory which maintains that the im­
probability of the prodigies and assumed mira­
cles related by the ancients is not sufficient to
authorize their being regarded as fabulous, “ if
that improbability be proved to be only appa­
rent.” He founds his reasoning on the fact that
the degree of scientific knowledge existing in
an early period of society was much greater
than the moderns are willing to admit; but that
. it was confined to the temples, carefully veiled
from the eyes of the people, and exposed only
to the priesthood. This fact was well exemr
plified in Egypt, where the ascendency of the
priesthood, from this cause, was so paramount,
that a prince could not be established on his
throne until he was initiated into the greater
mysteries of the temples ; yet, prior to that pe­
riod, if the royal personage happened to be a
member of the military order, he could not be a
partaker of these important secrets until he ber
came king.
* .
The priests, consequently, were justlyesteem­
ed to possess all the knowledge that could be
acquired by a peculiar education ingrafted upon
Superior understanding; and they constituted a
hierarchy, having almost unbounded influence
. * Clement of Alexandria bean evidence to this fact.
Digitized by
Xiv PREFACE BY THE EDITOR.
in the civil as well as the religious polity of the
state. As priests, they were the interpreters
of the sacred books, the confidential advisers of
the monarch, and the regulators of his conduct.
They were also the judges of the land, and fill­
ed most of the important offices of the govern­
ment. Their great object was to maintain their
influence over the multitude; for which pur­
pose, they not only preserved all knowledge in
their own body, but intrusted the higher mys­
teries of their faith only to such individuals,
even of the priesthood, as were known to excel
in virtue and wisdom. To render their ascend­
ency, also, over the minds of the people more
secure, they pretended to skill in divination; to
be able to presage future events; to foresee and
to avert impending calamities, and to bring
down the vengeance of the gods upon the pro­
fane for every dereliction of duty, or neglect of
their service.
It must be evident that such a state of mental
control could not be preserved without opera­
ting on the superstitious feelings of the multi­
tude ; consequently, sacrifices, rites, and cere­
monies were instituted; and displays of sacer­
dotal power over the elements of nature which
appear altogether improbable were witnessed.
The object of our author, as I have already said,
was to explain the character of that power, and
to remove the effects produced by it from the
region of fable, by demonstrating that their im­
probability can be proved to be only apparent.
How far he has succeeded I shall leave to the
readers of his proofs to determine; but, like all
promulgators of a theory, he has attempted to
Digitized by UooQle
PREFACE BY THE EDITOR. XV
extend it too far, and has supposed it capable
of explaining not only the apparent miracles of
Polytheism, but even those which, in a great
degree, form the foundation of our purer faith,
and which the benevolence of the Deity deign­
ed to mortals as a revelation, and the best sanc­
tion of its Divine origin.
For the above reasons, in undertaking the
task of editing these volumes, I have felt it my
duty to expunge from their pages every pass­
age referring to the sacred Volume; and, at
the same time, to change somewhat the title of
the work, by substituting the words “ apparent
miracles” for the word “ miracles.” This has
not been done without due consideration, and
from a conviction that the author had no correct
idea of miracles, and, consequently, could not
be supposed to regard those of the Bible as ob­
jects of belief. I consider it necessary, how­
ever, after this assertion, to lay before tne read­
er my own opinions of the distinction between
real and apparent miracles. But, before doiqg
so, I must disown my belief in an opinion often
put forth, that the indulgence of a certain de­
gree of skepticism tends to improve argumenta­
tive acuteness; on the contrary, in clouding
with a doubtful light both truth and error, it
creates a tendency to make error as worthy of
assent as truth.
We may define a real miracle a new and
extraordinary event, added to the ordinary se­
ries of events; the result of extraordinary cir­
cumstances, and such as may be reasonably
supposed to proceed directly from the Divine
Will operating on the usual phenomena of the
Digitized by UooQle
XVi PREFACE BY THE EDITOR!
universe: certainly “ not a violation of the laws
of nature.”*
The recitals of real miracles that have been
witnessed, and the opinion that they are likely
again, at any time, to be witnessed, I may un­
hesitatingly assert can only be denied by him
who is skeptical as to the direct operation of
the Supreme Power which created the world,
the greatest, and assuredly the most incompre-
*
hensible of all miracles. In every real miracle
the Deity must directly act, as it can not be
regarded otherwise than “ as a new event re­
sulting from a new antecedent,”! depending
wholly on the will of the Omnipotent, in the
same manner as the creation of the world. :
One of the greatest miracles, next to that of
the creation, is the universal deluge, a miracle
anterior to all existing records, and yet univer­
sally believed by every nation and people oh
the face of the globe. It is, indeed, remarka­
ble that a theological philosopher, an amiable
and pious dignitary of the Church of England^
Bishop Burnet, should have labored to explain
this awful catastrophe upon physical principles.
It is unnecessary to enter upon any refutation
of the absurd, hypothetical romance of this
worthy divine. He conceived that this globe
consisted of a nucleus of waters, surrounded by
a crust of solid earth, which “ at a time appoint­
ed by Divine Providence, and from causes made
ready to do that great execution upon a sinful
world,” fell into the immense abyss, the waters
of which, rushing out, overflowed “ all the parts
* Brown's Inquiry into the Relation of Cause and Effect,
Notes E F, p. 500-540. t Dr. Brown, La;
Digitized by UooQle
PREFACE BY THE EDITOR. XVli
and regions of the broken earth during the great
commotion and agination of the abyss.”
Another theory, advanced by Mr. Whiston,
although more plausible, yet is not more difficult
of refutation than that ofBurnet. He attributed
the awful phenomenon to the near approach of
a comet. I have said it is more plausible than
that of the bishop, because the effect of such a
shock might be, as La Place has stated (suppos­
ing it possible), to change the axis and motion
of rotation of the globe ; and, consequently, not
only to overthrow every thing upon its surface,
but to cause the waters to abandon their ancient
beds, and to precipitate themselves upon the
equator, drowning every man and animal in their
progress. But this opinion can not be support­
ed, even upon the physical proofs that are so
plausibly and ingeniously advanced. In the
first place, there is every astronomical certainty
that no change has taken place in the axis of the
globe; in the second place, the deluge, as it is
recorded in the Bible, continued only one hun­
dred and fifty days, a period not of sufficient
duration to cause the extensive deposits in the
crust of the earth detected by geologists, which
must, therefore, be referred to some prior catas­
trophe. Neither have any human bones been
found in these deposits, although the bones of
many other mammalia, equally perishable, are
abundantly scattered through them. Indeed, it
is probable that the bones and debris of any an­
imals destroyed by the deluge would not be
preserved; as the bodies of both man and ani­
mals being exposed to the air when the waters
retired, they would undergo rapid decomposi­
Digitized by GooqIc
xviii PREFACE BY THE EDITOR.
tion and return to their primeval earth. In the
third place, La Grange and La Place have dem­
onstrated that although, as Sir laac Newton
conjectured, great irregularities and disturban­
ces may occur in the action of one planet upon
another, yet they are counterbalanced by the
period of every planet’s revolution, and its mean
distance from the sun being unassailable by any
of the causes of change. From these elements,
therefore, we are authorized to affirm that the
utmost order and regularity must be preserved
in our system, and disorder so excluded, that
neither a universal deluge, nor any extraneous
cause of destruction to this globe, can ever oc­
cur without the immediate interposition of the
Creator; or, in other words, without a direct
miracle. In this great miracle, however,it must
not be supposed that there was any violation of
the laws of nature, but that a new event was
required for a special purpose, and that it was
effected by a direct act of the Deity.
In contemplating the tremendous and awful­
ly sublime nature of the universal deluge—the
magnitude of the catastrophe—the overthrow
of a world—it can not but be regarded as an
essential ingredient in constituting it a miracle.
But such sublime effects are not necessary to
constitute a miracle: the transmutation of wa­
ter into wine at Cana; the healing of the sick;
and the raising of Lazarus from the grave, with
the other extraordinary actions of our Savior,
are equally deserving the name of miracles, and
equally inexplicable upon every principle except
that which has been already stated as constitu­
ting a miracle. The Divine Will that preceded
Digitized by GooqIc
PREFACE BY THE EDITOR. xix
them may be safely regarded as the efficient
cause of their miraculous results; and none but
an atheist would exclude the exercise ofOmnip­
. otence in producing new events at any period,
as well as at that of the creation.
But it may be justly argued that every hith­
erto unobserved, and, therefore, new and extra­
ordinary event, which is inexplicable by our
experience, can not be regarded as a miracle.
Certainly not. The fall of aerolites has fre­
quently taken place, although we are utterly ig­
norant of the peculiar combination of circum­
stances that physically precede them; and,
when first observed, they must not only have
excited the utmost astonishment, but given suf­
ficient occasion for belief in their miraculous
character. They have now so frequently been
observed, that the phenomenon can no longer
be doubted; they can not, therefore, be regard­
ed as miracles, because “ the necessary combi­
nation, whatever it may have been, must pre­
viously have taken placeand although they
were not observed, yet there is much probabil­
ity that they must have frequently before fallen.
The physical probabilities, therefore, have only
to be weighed, as in the case of every other ex­
traordinary event related to us ; and, according
to the result, our belief or disbelief will be fix­
ed. If the event, however extraordinary, can
be explained by physical causes, it can not be
regarded as supernatural, and, consequently,
not as a miracle.
An apparent miracle may be defined an ex­
traordinary, and, as far as the knowledge of
those who witness it for the first time extends;
Digitized by UooQle
•XX PREFACE BY THE EDITOR.
an unprecedented event; but when it is careful­
ly examined, it can be explained upon ordinary
.physical principles, and, if not a natural event,
it may be performed by any one who is in pos­
session of the method of working it.
. The first attempt, which succeeded, to attract
.lightning from the clouds, when witnessed by
those ignorant of the method of effecting it, was
proclaimed as a miracle, and consistently re­
garded as such by the ignorant multitude.
;Nothing, indeed, could be better calculated to
subdue and enchain their minds in the bondage
of superstition; but, since the principles upon
which the phenomenon depends are well under­
stood, it has ceased to be regarded as miracu­
lous, and is classed among the other remarkable
discoveries of physical science. Many of the
astounding phenomena ofinitiation into the mys­
teries of the temples, and those intended to be
considered as supernatural when displayed be­
fore the people in ancient times, and even,pro&
pudor1 some in our own times, especially in the
legends and the rituals of the Church of Rome,
are readily explained upon physical principles,
and may be confidently classed as sacred frauds.
^Nothing can be more unworthy of the Church
who sends them forth. Well may the scoffer
at religion exclaim, does the honor and the wor­
ship of the Deity require for its advancement
the aid of falsehood and imposture !
Such is my opinion ofthe distinction between
real and apparent miracles. With reference to
the former, the Supreme Being may will, as he
possesses the power, to perform every thing, at
any time, that is truly miraculous, and we can
Digitized by UooQle
PREFACE BY THE EDITOR. XXI
always trace the intention to some gracious pur­
pose. But, however closely the ingenuity of
man may imitate real miracles, and however
the results of his operations may appear mirac­
ulous, yet, when they are examined, they can be
referred, as I have already said, to physical
causes; and their influence is found not to be
directed to the beneficent and gracious ends
which follow, as a regular sequence, every real
miracle. The apparent miracle is worked, not
for an act worthy of the Divinity, but to elevate
the dignity of certain individuals, or to augment
the consequence of particular classes of men in
the eyes of the ignorant, or to forward some
other object not extending to general good, but
confined in its influence to comparatively nar-«
row limits; namely, to satisfy ambition and the
love of power.
To affirm positively that an event which is
consonant with the ordinary powers of nature
is the immediate result of the intervention of
Divine agency, displays an arrogant assump­
tion of superior wisdom, and of such an ac­
quaintance with all the tendencies of the oper­
ations of the works of nature as to pronounce
them inadequate, and must consequently lead
to the suspicion of imposture; but to presume
to imitate the awful phenomena of nature, and
to pronounce these imitations the result of su­
pernatural agency, deserves no other appella­
tion than that of actual imposture. Such at­
tempts, for the purposes ofambition, and for the
promotion of sacerdotal control over the minds
of the mass of mankind, are those which our
author has endeavored to expose; and, when
Digitized by Cj
XXli PREFACE BY THE EDITOR.
he has confined himself to these alone, his ob­
ject has been accomplished.
With respect to another description of pre­
tended miracles in our own times, namely, those
which occupied the public mind in 1820, during
the career of Prince Hohenlohe, who assumed
to himself the miraculous gift of healing; and
also some cures which were alleged to have
been obtained through prayer, and published in
a periodical called the “Morning Watch,” in
1830: these appear not to have been known to
our author. They are only mentioned here to
show that credulity and superstition belong to
no particular age; and to demonstrate the pow­
erful influence of confidence in bestowing tone
and energy upon the human frame, after long­
continued chronic diseases have worn them­
selves out, and have left the individual in a state
of debility which only requires the action of
some powerful excitement to set the machine
again in action.
“ Of all moral agents,” says Mr. Travers, in
a letter relative to the cure of a Miss Fancourt
of a spine complaint, in answer to the prayer
of a Mr. Greaves, “ I conceive that faith which
is inspired by a religious creed to be the most
powerful; and Miss Fancourt’s case, there can
be no doubt, was one of many instances of sud­
den recovery from a passive form of nervous
ailment, brought about by the powejful excite­
ment of this extraordinary stimulus, compared
to which, in her predisposed frame of mind, am­
monia and quinia would have been mere tri­
fling.” On the same principles may be justly
ascribed the cure of Miss Martineau, so confi­
Digitized by Google
PREFACE BY THE EDITOR. xxiii
dently ascribed by that highly-talented lady to
the influence of mesmerism. It is a melancho­
ly reflection that, in so advanced a period of
civilization as that above named, dupes should
be found to believe, or self-constituted miracle­
workers presume, to operate upon the credulity
of mankind.
The ascribing of such events to the interces­
sion of the sanctified dead, or to the prayers of
the living, or to the particular intervention of
the Deity called forth by them, can be neither
justified by sound reason nor approved by true
religion. The cures really •accomplished can
be explained by the operation of adequate natu­
ral causes, and, consequently, require no mirac­
ulous interposition. It may be argued that the
estimony of credible witnesses may be adduc­
ed in support of such apparent miracles; but,
before admitting such testimony, we must take
into account the condition of mind of the wit­
nesses; for, when there is a tendency in the
mind, either from its original structure, or from
the nurture of improper education, to believe in
miraculous events, a spirit of self-deception is
practiced, and appearances are adopted as
truths, without the smallest feeling ofdoubt, and
assuredly without any attempt to estimate their
degree ofprobability. Under such circumstan­
ces, the respectability of the witnesses does not
enhance the value of the testimony if, after
weighing all the probabilities, we are satisfied
that they concur against the truth of the event
having really happened. Do not, we may in­
quire, the strongest minds sometimes, in such
cases, demonstrate that the most perfect speci­
mens of human intellect, like the sun, have their
Digitized by
XXIV PREFACE BY THE EDITOR.
spots, since we find the immortal Newton him­
self paying the penalty to mortal weakness on
the subject ofprophetical interpretations ? Sel­
den, in his apology for the law against witches,
displayed a lurking belief in witchcraft; and
both Sir Thomas Brown and Sir Matthew Hale
were believers in that absurd infatuation. In­
deed, the extraordinary extent to which the be­
lief in witchcraft existed during the twelfth and
thirteenth centuries in the north of Europe, and
in Great Britain, is almost incredible. Like the
spectres which it was supposed to invoke, it
vanished before the light which experimental
science threw upon those events, natural or ar­
tificial, that were previously considered to de­
pend on supernatural interposition.
On that portion of his subject which treats of
Magic, and its modifications, sorcery and witch­
craft, our author has displayed much research;
but he has scarcely noticed the opinion which
at one time very generally prevailed, and which
still forms part of the Roman Catholic faith, that
every man at his nativity has a good and a bad
angel assigned to him. This belief was proba­
bly a remnant of that part of the doctrine of Zo­
roaster, which describes the Supreme Being as
assigning, at the creation, the government of
the world to two principles, one of good, and
the other of evil; which originated the pagan
doctrine of the agency of good and evil genii,
to which also the Grecian philosophers were
addicted.
This belief seems to have prevailed even in
the time of Shakspeare, who refers to it in sev­
eral of his dramas, and especially in the follow­
ing passage;
Digitized by UooQle
PREFACE BY THE EDITOR. XXV
M Thy demon, that’s thy spirit which keep
* thee, h
Noble, courageous, high, untamable
When Ceesaris is not; but, near him, thy angel
Becomes a Fear, as being overpowered—
I say again, thy spirit
Is all abroad to govern thee near him;
But be aware, ’tis noble.”*
It is not my intention, as it would be out of
place here, to comment upon this subject, al-
though one ofconsiderable interest, and still en­
tertained by several good and pious individuals,
who ascribe all evil thoughts and temptations
to the immediate instigation of the devil. It is
also a curious fact that the act of suicide, which
too frequently is the consequence of insanity, is
often caused by the illusion of a voice constant­
ly whispering in the ear of the unfortunate indi-
vidual, and urging the committal of the crime.
On the subject of prodigies and visions, our
author is not so copious as the title of his work
would lead the reader to anticipate: those
" Signa,
Abortions, presages, and tongues of heaven,”
that, in spite of the rapid advancement and ex­
tension of knowledge, so characteristic of the
present period, still press like an incubus upon
the minds of many persons, and a total freedom
from which can be conscientiously boasted of
only by a few. In confirmation ofthis assertion,
it is not necessary that I should prove a belief
in spectral appearances, although there are
spectral illusions occurring when the nervous
system is deranged in any one laboring under
febrile disease, or in a healthy person exhaust­
ed with long and anxious watching by the bed
of sickness, which might be regarded as predic­
tive of death; nor is it requisite that I should
• Antony and Cleopatra, act vii., iceoe 3.
Digitized by Gooqle
XXvi PREFACE BY THE EDITOR.
refer to the belief in screams and fearful noises
heard at the dead of night; corpse candles, nor
tomb fires; nor those alterations in the burning
of lights which a guilty conscience fancies may
take place at midnight, and which are omens of
some approaching disaster, the merited punish­
ment of crime.
“ The lights burn blue: it is now dead midnight.
Cold fearful drops stand on my trembling flesh.
Methought the souls of all that I had murder’d
Came to my tent.”*
But, independent of any beliefin these visions
—these aerial simulacra—there are certain feel­
ings of the mind which seem to indicate disas­
ter, and which to a certain degree influence
more or less the belief of every man.
Much might be said upon the Second Sight, a
property of recognizing “ the coming events
which cast their shadow before,” and which is
still believed to be possessed by some persons
in the remote parts ofthe Highlands ofScotland.
The second sight is a species of divination; a
gift of prophecy, or of prediction from visions.
One writer on the Highlands, a man of genius
and high acquirements, Doctor Macculloch,
treats the whole as a fanciful romance; a mere
specimen of superstition in the believers, and
of impudent assumption of a possession which
never existed only in the declaration of the
seers, and the trick of which, in truth, might be
acquired by any one in the Island of Sky for a
mere trifle. The object seen by the mountain
seer is often a close resemblance of himself, at
whatever period of life he may be; and upon
this fact, believing that the object is really seen,
I have attempted an explanation in a note upon
* Richard III., act v., acene 3.
Digitized by Gooqlc
PREFACE BY THE EDITOR. xxvii
it How far I have succeeded I leave to the
judgment of the reader. Certain conditions of
the nervous system, also, especially hypochon­
driacal affections, cause spectral illusions, which
the patient in some degree believes to be real.
My explanation, however,refers to those visions
only that are seen of the seers themselves $ not
to those which display the whole machinery of
the predictedevent,whetherdisastrousorjoyful.
In this respect I am inclined to think, with Dr.
Macculloch, that the honesty of the seers may
be placed on a parallel with that ofthe Delphian
Pythoness; and it is of little consequence what
the cause of the excitement is, whether whisky,
or carbonic acid gas.
In the exercise ofthe second sight, thepredic­
tions have been usually accomplished before the
seer has published his anticipatory knowledge;
hence the facility with which predictions may be
at any time announced. The wonder is that the
impudent assertionsoftheir being known before­
hand should find believers; it can only be af­
firmed that the credulity balances the impos­
ture. Absurd as these facts show this assumed
gift of divination to have been, the belief in it
was at one time universal; but it is now, hap­
pily, on the wane, and practiced only in the re­
mote Hebrides. Ifat any period those predict­
ive visions really occurred, they must be view­
ed only as reveries, the sports of mental associ­
ation in a state between sleeping and waking.
With respect to other omens, they are nearly
the same over all the world, as well as in the
Highlands. “ A spark of fire,” says Dr. Mac-
culloch, in treating ofSky, “ falling on the breast
or arms of a woman, was the omen of a dead
Digitized by UooQle
xxviii PREFACE BY THE EDITOR.
uhild. Certain sounds were the omens of
deathand these are certainly not confined to
-Sky; we find them prevailing among the uned­
ucated classes even in England, and, what is
more remarkable, among some whose education
should have placed them above lending an ear
ofcredence to such absurdities. Many of these
forebodings attract the attention of the individ­
uals merely from that listless, dozing condition
which is the result of want of occupation. The
vision is, in truth, the recollection of something
that has previously occurred, which begins a
series ofassociations, or false ideas, that impress
.and keep their hold of the imagination in hours
between sleeping and watchfulness, .
It might be supposed that the seers could not
believe, and that, like the augurs of old, who
laughed in each others faces when they met, the
seers, also, must have felt strange emotions on
encountering one another; but this idea does
not always hold. How many confessions of
witchcraft were made at the time when that
delusion enchained the human mind in its bond­
age may be seen in the pages of our author.
These confessions may be regarded as a species
of insanity, especially when those who uttered
them were carried to the stake, or were suffer-
*
ing under the most horrific tortures of breaking
on the wheel. The argument in favor ofwitch­
craft resting on evidence is valid for every abn
surdity detailed ofit; but it is almost degrading
to condescend to prove the small value of hu­
man testimony upon numerous points, when we
see men of every rank and denomination de­
ceiving their eyesight, and believing that they
have seen what never existed. Instances of
Digitized by Google
PREFACE BY THE EDITOR; XXiX
this extraordinary fact are abundantly scatter-
*
ed through the following volumes; and it has
been well remarked, that “ when once the minds
of a people are prepared with a solution for ev­
ery event, there will never be wanting events
adapted to the situation.”*
With regard to the predictions ofthe temples,
I am of opinion that our author ascribes too
much knowledge to the priesthood. In their
own operations, there is no reason why their
predictions should not be fulfilled; but, in the
Series of natural events, where all things are so
iningled together, and the untwining ofthe com­
plication so.much beyond our power, that to
predict the manner and the particular moment in
which the anticipated effect will take place can
not be supposed possible. Long experience, and
the constant observation of natural events, may
do much in enabling truth to be approximated
under such circumstances; but even these aids
are not adequate to insure its full attainment.
To suppose, however, that the fulfillment of a
prediction of a supernatural character can de­
pend, in any degree, on the interposition of the
individual who has hazarded it, must be regard­
ed as absurd, and as resting Upon the same
ground as the belief in witchcraft; the stories
of men-without heads, described by St. Augus­
tine as having been seen by himself; or the sa­
tyrs of St. Jerome ;f mermaids; the clairvoyance
ofmesmerizers ; the cures of Prince Hohenlohe,
performed at two thousand miles from the pa­
tient ; or those fictitious ones now enslaving the
• * Macculloch’s Highlands andWestern Islands, Ac.,vol. ii., p. 8G.
. t St. Jerome averred that there were actual satyrs, men with
goats' legs and tails, exhibited at Alexandria; ana that one was
pickled and sent in a cask to Constantine.
XXX PKEFACE BY THE EDITOR;
minds of many whose rank in life and education
should have prevented them from becoming the
dupes of so silly an imposture—I refer to the
gift of healing possessed by a young French
woman, Mademoiselle Julie, now in the British
metropolis. She professes to judge of diseases,
when placed in the mesmeric slumber, by feel­
ing a few hairs from the head ofthe sick person,
who is not required to be present, and prescrib­
ing for them; a most impudent imposture, which
has been justly exposed by Dr. John Forbes.
*
A considerable portion of these volumes is
occupied in tracing many of the extraordinary
apparent miracles of antiquity to mechanical
and scientific sources; but the knowledge of
the erudite author is not very profound on this
part of his subject; and here I trust my notes
shall be found to illustrate his remarks, as well
as to clear up many obscure passages; to ex­
plain processes which seem to have been little
known to him; and to correct errors into which
he has been led from being only superficially
acquainted with the subject. I have also add­
ed many brief biographical notices of the prin­
cipal individuals mentioned in the text, chiefly
for the sake ofthe generalEnglish reader,whose
moderate acquaintance with classical antiquity
may require such an aid. It is not for me to
say how much the notes may be thought to add
to the value of the work; they have been writ­
ten with the intention of rendering the whole
subject better understood. I contemplated add­
ing to the Illustrations at the conclusion of the
second volume an Essay on Credulity in Med­
icine, tracing it to its course, and giving an ex-
* See British and Foreign Medical Review.
Digitized by C>ooQle
PREFACE BY THE EDITOR. XXXi
position ofthe various successful efforts ofchar­
latanism which have at various times imposed
upon the understanding of mankind, and con­
tributed to the stability of the empire of super­
stition. But on looking over my materials for
such a dissertation,collected during manyyears,
I was convinced that the subject could not be
embraced within any reasonable compass to
serve as an appendage to these volumes; I
have therefore determined to lay it, at some fu­
ture time, before the public as a distinct work.
In conclusion, I have no hesitation in declar­
ing my opinion that M. Salverte has performed
a beneficial service to mankind in throwing
open the gates of the ancient sanctuaries. The
benefit would have been enhanced had he ex­
tended his researches from the fallacies of pol­
ytheism to the pious frauds which disfigure the
middle age of the Christian world; “ and from
which,” to borrow the language of Paley,
“Christianity has suffered more injury than
from all other causes put togetheranother
proof, were it required, that Credulity and Su­
perstition belong to no particular age nor coun­
try. Their labors constitute a large portion of
the history of the human race, which may be
regarded as little more than a record of the fol­
lies and vices of man, rather than a display of
his virtues and intellectual energies. Whatev­
er may be our religious faith, we drink in, al­
most with our mother’s milk, an admiration of
classic antiquity ; and from the influence of
early education we are insensibly led to give
some degree of credence to its mythology.
One beneficial effect, however, it must be con­
fessed, results from tracing conditions; name-
XXXii PBEFACE BY THE EDITOB.
ly, the tendency which they have, in many im­
portant particulars, to confirm the truths of the
Bible. Whether disgraced by the cruel and
remorseless absurdities that deform the Hindoo
rites, or emerging from the frowning darkness
that shrouded Egyptian mysticism, or conceal­
ed by the graceful drapery which decorated
Grecian polytheism, we may discover in all
of them nearly the same account of the infant
condition of the world, the creation of the hu­
man race, and the catastrophe of the deluge;
thence a confirmation of the cosmogony of the
book of Genesis. The Hindoos, for example,
divide the creation into six successive periods,
the last of which terminates with the formation
of man; and in the Purana, amid the wildest
allegories and most fanciful exuberance of ma­
chinery, we discover evident traces of the uni­
versal flood, and the preservation of one family
destined to renew and to continue the human
race. Among the Parsees, the followers of Zo­
roaster, the belief in one Supreme Being, and
of a good and an evil principle, constitutes their
primitive faith, the superstitions now mingled
with the fire-worship having originated in the
ambition of the priesthood for power rather
than in the tenets of its original founder. The
sun of Christianity has dispersed the darkness
of paganism ; and, as knowledge extends suffi­
ciently to dissipate the divisions introduced, un­
happily, into the Christian churches, the bless­
ings that result more and more from its influ­
ence will afford only additional evidence of its
divine origin. A. T. T.
30 Welbeck-street, June, 1846.
Digitized by G>ooQle
CONTENTS
or
THE FIRST VOLUME.
CHAPTER I.
Man is Credulous oecause he is naturally Sincere.—Men of sups
*
rior Intellect have reduced their Fellow-meu to Submission by
acting upon their Passions through their Credulity.—The Recife,
ala of Marvels which conduced to this End are not wholly in
ventive.—It is useful as well as curious to study the Facts con­
tained in these Narrations, and their Cause . . Page 37-41
CHAPTER II.
Difference between Miracles and Prodigies.—Circumstances that
render marvelous Histories credible: 1st. The Number and
Agreement of the Narrations, and the Confidence which the
Observers and Witnesses of them merit; 2d. the Possibility
of tracing out some one or other of the principal Causes that
may have given a miraculous Coloring to a natural Event
42-50
CHAPTER HL
Enumeration and Discussion of Causes.—Singular and deceptive
Appearances of Nature. — Exaggeration of the Details and
Duration of Phenomena.—Improper Terms, ill-conceived and
badly explained.—Figurative Expressions.—Poetic Style.—
Erroneous Explanations of Emblematic Representations.—
Allegories and Fables adopted as real Facts . . 50-88
CHAPTER IV
Beal but rare Phenomena successfully held up as Prodigies pro­
ceeding from the Intervention of a Divine Power, and believed
because Men were ignorant that a Phenomenon could be local
and periodical; because they had forgotten some natural Fact,
which would at once have removed all Idea of the Marvelous ;
and, finally, because it was often dangerous to disabuse a de­
ceived Multitude.—As the ancient Authors have adhered to
Truth in this respect, they may be, also, depended upon in what
they relate of magical Operations .... 88-115
I. c
Digitized by C.ooQle
xxxiv CONTENTS.
CHAPTER V.
Magic.—Antiquity and Universality of the Belief in Magic.—Its
Operations attributed equally to the Principle of Evil and of
Good.—It was not considered by the Ancients to imply the
Subversion of the Order of Nature.—Its Truth was not dis­
puted even when emanating from the Disciples of an inimical
Religion ............................................ Page 115-124
CHAPTER VI.
Trial of Skill between the Thaumaturgists.—It was admitted
that the Victor derived his Science from the Deity ; but it was
founded on Natural Philosophy.—The Proofs of which are de­
rived : 1st. From the Conduct ofthe Thaumaturgists ; 2d. From
their own Assertions regarding Magic, that the Genii invoked
by the Magicians sometimes signified the Physical or Chemical
Agents accessory to the Occult Science; sometimes the Men
who cultivated that Science ; 3d. The Magic of the Chaldeans
embraced all the Occult Sciences .... 125-143
CHAPTER VII.
Error, mingled with the positive Truths of Science.—Then
have their Origin sometimes in deliberate Imposture, sometime,
in the Mystery in which the Occult Science is involved.—Im­
postures exaggerated.—Pretensions of the Thaumaturgists:
Charlatanism; Jugglery; Tricks of Legerdemain more or less
palpable.—Chance, and the Facility with which its Results may
be controlled.—Oracles conjoined with Equivocation and Im­
posture, to insure their Fulfillment by natural Means, such a.
Ventriloquism, &c.; and by, finally, exact, but very simple Ob­
servations ................................................................... 144-175
CHAPTER VIII.
Safeguards of the Mystery that surrounded the Occult Sciences.
—Hieroglyphics, Idioms, and Sacred Writing.—Not understood
by the Uninitiated.—Enigmatical Language of the Invocations.
—Gradual and partial Revelations known in their Plenitude
only to a small Number of Priests.—Oaths, and Falsehood!
respecting the Nature of the Processes, and the Extent of Magi­
cal Operations.—Consequences of this Mystery : 1st. The Sci­
ence of Magic was reduced, in the Hands of theThaumaturgists,
to a Practice, the Nature of which, devoid of Theory, became
in Time unintelligible ; 2d. Great Errors universally prevailed,
owing to Ignorance ofthe Limits that circumscribed this Power:
the Desire to penetrate into Secrets of Magic, and the Habit of
attributing its Efficacy to the visible and ostensible Processes
of Science 176-203
Digitized by C.ooQle
CONTENTS. XXXV
CHAPTER IX.
Notwithstanding the Rivalry of religious Sects, the Spirit of a
fixed Form of Civilization existed.—Mystery in the Schools of
Philosophy was ultimately banished by the Influence of more
perfect Civilization.—In the first Epoch there was an habitual
Communication of the Greeks with the Successors of the Magi,
who were dispersed through Asia after the Death of Smerdis :
1st. The Revelation of Magic; 2d. The Impoverishing of Egypt
after the Conquest of the Romans caused Priests of inferior
Grades, who trafficked in the Secrets of the Temples, to abound
in Rome ; 3d. The Polytheists, who were converted to Christa
ianity, carried into its Bosom the Knowledge of the Magic
which they possessed.—In the second Epoch, the Remains only
of the Sacred Science existed: 1st. In the Schools of the The-
urgian Philosophy; 2d. In the Possession of wandering Priests,
. and, above all, of Egyptian Priests. As Successors to the former
may be assigned, with much probability, the Secret Societies of
Europe; to the latter, the modem Jugglers . Page 203-234
CHAPTER X.
Enumeration of the Wonders that the Thaumaturgists acquired
the Power of Working, by the Practice of the Occult Science
234-239
CHAPTER XI.
Apparent Miracles performed by Mechanism.—Moving Floors.—
Automata.—Experiments in the Art of Flying . . 239-246
CHAPTER XII.
Acoustics.—ImitationofThunder.—Organs.—Resounding Chests.
—Androfdes, or Speaking-Heads.—The Statue of Memnon
247-255
CHAPTER XIII.
Optics.—Effects similar to those exhibited in the modem Dio­
ramas and Phantasmagorias.—Apparitions of the Gods, and
Shades of the Dead.—The Camera Obscura.—Magicians chan­
ging their Appearances and their Forms is an incredible Miracle
255-279
CHAPTER XIV.
Hydrostatics.—Miraculous FountainofAndros.—TomboPBelus.—
Statues that shed Tears.—Perpetual Lamps.—Chemistry.—
Liquids changingColor.—Condensed Blood becoming Liquid.—
Inflammable Liquid.—The Art of distilling Alcoholic Liquors
was formerly known even beyond the Temples . . 280-292
Digitized by Google
xxxvi CONTENTS.
CHAPTER XV.
Secrets employed in working apparent Miracles in Initiations and
in religious Rites.—Those giving Security against the Effects of
Fire, and used in the Fiery Ordeal, known in Asia and in Italy,
and practiced in the Eastern Roman Empire, as well as m
Europe, in more modem Times.—Process by which Wood may
be rendered Incombustible .... Page 292-305
CHAPTER XVI.
Secrets to work upon the Senses of Animals.—Ancient and
modem Examples.—Of the Power of Harmony.—The Power
of good Treatment.—Crocodiles and Snakes tamed.—Reptiles
whose Venom can either be Destroyed or Extracted.—Ancient
PayHi.—The Faculty which they possessed of braving the Bites
of Serpents put beyond Doubt, by the frequent recent and re­
peated Experiments in Egypt.—This Faculty proceeds from
odoriferous Emanations,whicn affect the Senses ofthe Reptiles,
and escape those of Man......................................... 305-332
Digitized by UooQle
THE PHILOSOPHY
OF %
MAGIC, PRODIGIES
AND
APPARENT MIRACLES.
CHAPTER I.
Man is Credulous because he is naturally Sincere.—Men of supe­
rior Intellect have reduced their Fellow-men to Submission by
acting upon their Passions through their Credulity.—The Recit­
als of Marvels which conduced to this End are not wholly in­
ventive.—It is useful as well as curious to study the Facts con­
tained in these Narrations, and their Causes.
Man is credulous from the cradle to the grave;
yet this disposition, the consequences of which
plunge him into many errors and misfortunes, pro­
ceeds from an honorable principle. Naturally sin­
cere, he is desirous of making his words as correct
an expression of his feelings, thoughts, and recol­
lections, as his tears and exclamations of grief, and
of joy, and, above all, his looks, and the changes
of his countenance, are of his sufferings, his fears,
or his pleasures. Speech is more frequently de­
ceptive than silent gesticulations,since it has a great­
er affinity to art than nature; yet, such is the
strength of that inclination which attracts us to
truth, that the man the most habituated to deceit is
the most disposed to believe that others respect
truth; and, before refusing his credit to the state­
ments of others, he must detect something in them
which does not accord with his previous knowledge;
Digitized by
38 INTftOqPGTION.
or he must have ;some cause to suspect a design
formed to deceive him.
Novelty, and the difficulty of reconciling anoma­
lies \yith -experience, will never startle the faith of
aii^-unedseated man. There are, moreover, some
jrnpressions which all men are inclined to adopt
without investigation; and the very singularity of
w ’these is, perhaps, a charm which causes them to be
received with more delight. Is this taste, we may
inquire, natural ? or is it the result of that educa­
tion which for so many ages the human race has
received from its founders ? This is a vast and an
unexplored field of inquiry; but it forms no part
of our subject. It is sufficient to observe that the
love of the marvelous, and the preference ever giv
*
en to the extraordinary over the natural, have been
the cause why facts have been not only too much
disregarded, but sometimes altogether set aside.
There are instances, nevertheless, and we shall
bring forward several, where the simple truth has
escaped the power of oblivion.
The man of a confiding disposition may be fre­
quently deceived; still his credulity will not be
found an instrument sufficiently powerful to gov­
ern his whole existence. The marvelous excites
but a transient admiration. In 1798, our country­
men observed with surprise how little the sight of
balloons affected the indolent Egyptians. Savages
behold Europeans execute feats of skill, and per­
form physical experiments that they are neither
able nor desirous to explain; the exhibition amu­
ses without exciting them, and without invading
their tranquil independence.
Man is governed by his passions, and, above all,
by Hope and Fear. What is better able to create,
maintain, and exalt these feelings than unrestrained
credulity 1 Reason is perplexed, and the imagina­
ry Digitized by UooQle
INTRODUCTION. 39
tion filled with wonders. It is easy to believe in
supernatural events; we are apt to discern bene­
fits and punishments in them, and to read in them
also the mandates and threats of all-powerful be­
ings, whose direful hands hold the destinies of frail
mortals.
From the most ancient times, men of superior
intellect, desirous of enthralling the human mind,
have adduced miracles and prodigies as the certain
proof of their missions, and as the inimitable works
of the divinities whom they revered. Seized with
terror, the multitude have bent beneath the yoke
of superstition, and the proudest man has touched
the steps of the altar with his humbled brow.
Ages have passed away, consoled and terrified
by turns: sometimes governed by just laws, more
frequently subject to capricious and ferocious ty­
rants, the human race has believed and obeyed.
The history of every country and of all ages is en­
cumbered with marvelous tales; but, in the pres­
ent day, we reject them with a disdain not very
philosophical. Do not the convictions which have
exercised so powerful an influence on the human
race merit a nigh interest 1 Shall we forget that
supreme power of Providence, visible, we believe,
in prodigies and miracles, has been almost always
the most powerful means of civilization; that the
wisest men have doubted whether it were possible
for laws, or for durable institutions to exist without
the guarantee of an intervention so universally re­
spected ?•
If we consider these facts in connection with
their causes, the contempt for them has still less
foundation, and the origin of fables, which we often
deem revolting, merits, perhaps, an honorable place
in the history of mankind. Statements, however
* J. J. Rotuseaa, Du Control Social, liv. iv., c. viii. ■
Digitized by Google
48 INTRODUCTION.
incredible they may seem, can not all be falsehood
and illusion. Credulity and invention have alike
their limits. Let us study man, not from deceitful
traditions, but in his ordinary habits of life, and we
shall see that it would be difficult for an imposture
to become established if, in our feelings and recol­
lections, we find nothing to second its pretensions,
nothing to support them. We recur again to our
inquiry: Man is credulous because he is naturally
sincere. A falsehood can more easily deny, dis­
guise, and set aside truth than imitate it.
*
Invention, even in trifles, costs some effort of
which the inventor is not always capable. An in­
ventive genius, also, when exercised for our pleas­
ure or for our instruction, yields at every step to
the desire of approaching reality; of mingling truth
with its creations ; convinced that without this ar­
tifice falsehood would find little place in the hu­
man mind. With still more reason does the man
who has some great interest in practicing upon our
credulity, rarely revert to a fable which has not for
its foundation some fact, or the possibility of which
is not at least probable. This skillful attempt ap­
pears in referring to distant ages and countries, and
to those repetitions with which the histories of
prodigies abound, and which so imperfectly dis­
guise the alteration of some of the details. This
will be obvious if we can convince our readers that
the greater part of marvelous facts may be ex­
plained by a small number of causes more or less
easy to discern and to develop.
An inquiry into these causes has not for its ob­
ject merely the gratification ofidle curiosity. Prod­
igies connected with natural phenomena, inventions,
* It is with difficulty we can imagine any thing full of improba­
bility ; and we say " a fact of this nature is rarely forged.”—St.
Croix, Examen Critique des Historiens d'Alexandre. Paris, 1804
p. 29.
Digitized by UooQle
INTRODUCTION. 41
impostures, the sorcery of thaumaturgy
* can, for
the most part, be explained by physical science.
Viewed in this light, the history of science, its prog­
ress, and its variations, may furnish valuable ideas
respecting the antiquity, the changes, and vicissi­
tudes of civilization; and we may thence draw
some curious evidence regarding the sources of
part of our knowledge hitherto unsuspected.
Finally, another advantage will reward our re­
searches : history will be presented to us in a new
light. We shall restore to it facts; give back to
historians a character for veracity, without which
the whole of the past would be lost to the annals
of civilized man; for, convicted of falsehood and
ignorance in their narrations, and of a constant rep­
etition of marvelous events, what credit would they
merit in their accounts even of the most probable
occurrences 1 Justly denounced as an amalgama­
tion of truth and error, and devoid of interest mor­
al or political. History would be regarded only
as an admitted fiction: and has it not been so des­
ignated by the learned 1 But a man who has de­
scribed and studied the manners of his species is
not reduced to the degradation of preserving only
the fables in those records which are supposed to
give an insight into past ages. Far from present­
ing merely a collection of falsehoods and folly, the
most marvelous or incredible pages of history open
to us the archives of a learned and mysterious pol­
icy, which some wise men in every age have em­
ployed to govern the human race ; to lead it to mis­
fortune or to happiness; to greatness or to degra­
dation ; to slavery or to freedom.
• From two Greek words, signifying a worker of wonders.
Digitized by C.ooQle
42 DEFINITION OF MAGIC.
CHAPTER II.
Difference between Miracles and Prodigies.—Circumstances that
render marvelous Histories credible : 1st. The Number and
Agreement of the Narrations, and the Confidence which the Ob­
servers and Witnesses of them merit; 2d. The Possibility of
tracing out some one or other of the principal Causes that may
have given a miraculous Coloring to a natural Event.
The dominion of the marvelous may be divided
into two parts: that of prodigies, and that of mag­
ical works.
Independent of all human action, prodigies are
singular events that nature produces, apparently
deviating from those laws which invariably regu­
late her operations.
Every thing is a prodigy in the eyes of the ig­
norant man, who sees the universe only in the nar­
row circle of his existence. The philosopher be­
holds no prodigies: he knows that a monstrous
birth, or the sudden crumbling of the hardest rock,
result from causes as natural as the alternate return
of night and day.
*
* MiLller'9 Physiology, trans., vol. i., p. 25. '
Those prodigies, once so powerfully acting upon
the fears, desires, and resolutions of mankind, awak­
en in the present day only incredulity, and excite
the investigation of the learned. In the infancy of
* Our author's assertion in this paragraph is too general. Prod­
igies are, undoubtedly, traceable to natural causes; but not to
these in their regular and ordinary operation; on the contrary,
they are truly attributable to decided deviations from it. In a
monstrous birth the same organic force and formative power are
exerted in the development of the germ as in ordinary cases; but,
in the progress of the development, something occurs to interrupt
the action of the organizing principle, and a monster is the result.
The formative power is a creative faculty, stamped upon organic
matter by the Deity, which modifies it, but operates “ blindly and
unconsciously, according to the laws of adaptation.”*—Ed.
Digitized by Google
CREDIBILITY OF THE MARVELOUS. 4&
society, men possessed themselves of rare facts, and
of all real or apparent wonders, in order to hold
them up to the eyes of the vulgar as signs of the
anger, the threats, promises, or the benevolence of
the gods.
Miracles and marvelous events, equally in con­
nection with supernatural influence, are often won­
ders worked by men, whether they pretend that a
benevolent or a terrible Divinity employs them as
instruments; or whether, by the study of the trans­
cendental sciences, they assume that they have sub­
jected to their empire spirits endowed with some
power over the phenomena of the visible world.
Every miracle impresses a religious man with a
sense of veneration; at the same time, he bestows
this name on those supernatural operations only
that are consecrated by his belief. We shall, there­
fore, apply the name magic to the art of working
wonders ; and in so doing, we shall digress from re­
ceived opinions, and recall the ancient ideas offaith.
In the absence of religious revelation to regu­
late the thoughts, what proof of credibility, we may
inquire, would be sufficient to make the thinking
mind admit the existence of prodigies and marvel­
ous events?
The calculation of the probabilities will serve as
a guide.
It appears to a superficial view much more prob­
able that a man should be deceived by appearances
more or less specious, or that, having some inter­
est to deceive, he should himself endeavor to im­
pose, than that there should be perfect agreement
in a relation which involves something miraculous.
But if, in different times and places, many men
should have seen the same thing, and if their re­
citals agree among themselves, then the case is al­
tered.
44 CREDIBILITY OF THE MARVELOUS.
That which seemed incredible to the wise, and
miraculous to the vulgar, becomes a curious but
undeniable fact: the vulgar are amused by it; the
learned study it, and endeavor to develop its cause.
A single question remains then to be resolved in
order to form a just estimate of the past. Must we
admit that men have imprudently uttered and re­
corded falsehoods, and have found other men, in
all times, ready to believe absurdities 1 Is it not
more rational to conclude that those recitals, in ap­
pearance marvelous, are founded on reality, par­
ticularly when they can be explained sometimes by
the human passions, occasionally by the state of
science in former times 1
I shall fearlessly cite those witnesses hitherto re­
garded with suspicion, although they have narra­
ted events that have been reputed impossible. The
discredit into which they have fallen makes part of
our argument, which goes to show that discredit
can not be justly opposed to their narrations.
Is it credible, I may ask, that, in the year A.D.
197, a shower of quicksilver could have fallen in'
the Forum of Augustus at Rome?
Dion Cassius,
* who relates the event, did not see
it fall, but he observed it immediately after its de­
scent : he collected some of the drops, and rubbed
them upon a piece of copper in order to give to it
the appearance of silver, which he affirms it pre­
served for three entire days.f Glycas also speaks
* Dion Cassius Cocceianus, the son of Cassius Apronianus, a
Roman senator, was bom at Niceea, in Bithynia, A.D. 155. Al­
though he was on his mother's side of Greek descent, and wrote
in the language of his native province, yet he was truly a Ro­
man, and enjoyed the rank of a senator under Commodus. He
also held several important official situations under Alexander
Severus. His History of Rome, from the period of Augustus to
bis own age, is justly esteemed.—Ed.
t " Cotlo eereno pluvia rori simillima, edorisque argentei, info-
runs Augueti dqflnxit, quam ego, el si non vidi cum cadent, taeuit
Digitized by Google
CREDIBILITY OF THE MARVELOUS. 45
of a shower of quicksilver, which fell in the reign
of Aurelian.
* But the authority of this annalist is
weak, and there is reason to believe that he has
only disfigured the account of Dion by an anach­
ronism. The rarity and value of mercury at Rome,
in both reigns, set aside the possibility that the
quantity necessary to represent rain could have
been thrown by any one into the Forum. This
story is, indeed, too strange to be believed in the
present day. Must it then be absolutely rejected ?
Any one may say, it is impossible, it never could
occur; but to whom does it belong to determine
the limits of possibility, those limits which science
is extending every day under our own eyes ? Let
us examine, let us doubt, but let us not be too
hasty in denying the possibility of such an occur-
rence.f
If a similar prodigy had been related at different
times by different writers; if it had been renewed
in our own times, beneath the eyes of experienced
observers, it would no longer be regarded as a fable
or an illusion, but as a phenomenon which would
have a place in those records to which science con­
ut ceciderat, inveni; eaque, ita ut st esset argentum, oblivi monet-
am exoere, mansitque is color tres dies ; quarto vero die quidquid
oblitumjuerai eoanuit.”—Xiphilinus, in Severo.
* “ Aureliano imperante argenii guttas decidisse sunt qui tra
*
dant.”—(Glycas., Annal., lib. iii.) Little is known about this au­
thor. He wrote a Chronicle of events from the Creation to the
year A.D. 1118. It has been valued on account of its Biblical ref­
erences.—Ed.
+ There are many reasons for disbelieving the account of Dion.
In the first place, he did not see the shower fall; he gives no idea
of the quantity of the quicksilver precipitated, and be collected
only some drops; but, as the metal fell in a shower, and as it
would not sink into the ground, nor evaporate like water, the
quantity must have been too considerable to require it to be col­
lected in drops. In the second place, metallic mercury is rarely
found any where in large quantity; and it must have been eleva­
ted into the atmosphere in the form of vapor, and condensed there,
before it could descend in a shower. The story is altogether un­
worthy ofcredit.—Ed. .
Digitized by UooQle
46 CREDIBILITY OF THE MARVELOUS.
signs facts which she has recognized as certain with­
out being able to explain them.
We at one time regarded as fables all that the
ancients recorded respecting the falling of stones
from the sky. In the commencement of the nine­
teenth century, the most distinguished ofthe French
philosophers rejected, with some degree of harsh­
ness, the relation of a shower of aerolites; but, a
few days afterward, they were forced to acknowl­
edge its truth; and the narration has been verified
by the frequent repetition of this phenomenon.
*
On the 27th of May, 1819, a violent hail storm
devastated the country of Grignoncourt.f The
mayor of the place had some of the hailstones col-
* Although the fall of aerolites, or meteoric stones, is not now
doubted, yet it does not augment the credibility of the shower of
quicksilver related by Dion; it only shows us how cautious we
ought to be in rejecting the accounts of ancient writers, however
inconsistent with our experience. The most authentic account
of a fall of aerolites is that which describes the phenomenon as it
occurred near L’Aigle, in Normandy, in 1803. About one o'clock
in the afternoon, the sky being clear, a ball of fire was observed
in the atmosphere, in different parts of Normandy, and at the
same time loud explosions were heard in the district of L’Aigle.
These lasted for five or six minutes, resembling the discharges
of cannon and musketry, followed by a long, rolling noise, like that
of many drums. The meteor, whence the noise seemed to pro­
ceed, was like a small triangular cloud, which remained station­
ary; but vapor seemed to issue from it after each explosion.
Throughout the whole district a hissing noise, like that caused by
stones thrown from a sling, was heard, and a great number of
stones fell to the ground. Above two thousand were collected;
they varied in weight from two drachms to seventeen pounds and
S half. Aerolites, in whatever part of the world they have fallen,
resemble one another in composition, and consist of silica, iron,
magnesia, nickel, and sulphur, but in proportions different from
those in any stones known on the surface of our globe. Numer­
ous conjectures have been advanced respecting the source of
these stones. They have been supposed to be projected from the
moon, or from volcanoes, or to be formed in the atmosphere. The
most probable theory is that proposed by Chladni, namely, that
these meteors are either original, small, solid bodies, or fragments
separated from larger masses moving in space round the earth in
eccentric orbits, and containing, according to Sir H. Davy, com­
bustible or elastic matter.—Ed.
t NeufchAteau, in the department of the Vosges.
Digitized by C,ooQle
CREDIBILITY OF THE MARVELOUS. 47
lected ; they weighed upward of a pound avoirdu­
pois ; and when they were dissolved, he found in
the center of each a stone of a clear coffee color,
from about six to eight tenths of an inch in thick­
ness ; flat, round, polished, and with a hole in the
center, into which the little finger could be insert­
ed.
* Such stones had never been observed before
in the country; they were seen scattered upon the
ground wherever the hail had fallen. I read the
account of the phenomenon in a memorial (procet
verbal) addressed to the sub-prefect of Neufch&teau
by the mayor, who, viva voce, related the same de­
tails to me, and the clergyman of the parish con­
firmed the account. It might be said that the
tempest, and violent fall of the hail, had forced up
to the surface stones previously buried in the earth.
The personal observation of the mayor, however,
refutes this hypothesis. Curious to know the truth,
I examined the soil at the time where the plow
opened it more deeply than the hail could possibly
have done, and I could not discover a single stone
similar to those that the mayor described in his nar­
ration.!
Shall we reject a fact attested in so precise a
manner? In Russia, in 1825, a fall of hailstones,
in which were inclosed meteoric stones, took place.
* Upon the banks of the Ognon, a river flowing about ten
leagues from Grignoncourt, a great quantity of similar stones was
found. Could they also be the product of a hail storm charged
with aerolites ?
t It is not likely that he could discover any; for although the
foil of aerolites be true, yet the improbability of the stones being
such as stated is evident. The story is thus justly criticised in
the North British Review, vol. iii., p. 7: " The phenomenon,”
says the critic, “was never seen in any other place, and the en­
veloped stone was not a substance known to have a separate ex­
istence like quicksilver. A great quantity of circular, perforated
disks, of a polished and transparent mineral, could only nave come
from a jeweler’s shop in the moon, consigned to another jeweler
in the atmosphere, who set them in ice for the benefit of the
Mayor of Grignoncourt.”—Ed.
Digitized by Google
48 CREDIBILITY’ OF THE MARVELOUS.
The stones were sent to the Academy at St. Peters-
burgh
* On the 4th of July, 1833, in the district
of Tobolsk, enormous hailstones were seen to fall
simultaneously with cubical aerolites. Macrisius
relates that, in the year 723 of the Hegira, an enor­
mous hail shower fell, the stones of which weighed
from one to thirty rotts.f
* Chemical analysis gave the composition of these stones: 70
per cent, of red oxyd of iron; 7.50 manganese ; 7.50 silex; 6.25
micaceous earth; 3.75 argiL; 6 sulphur.—Bulletin Universd det
Sciences, 1825, tome iii., p. 117, No. 137; 1826, tome viii., p. 343.
t Kitab-at-Solouk, quoted by M. Et. Qnatremere.—Memoires
tur VEgypte, vol. ii., p. 489-490.
t Stance du 25 Juin, 1827.—See Revue Encycloptdique, tome
xxxv., p. 244.
$ This was one of those sports of Nature which are not unfre-
quently seen, and which can not be reasonedupon. As it may be
a solitary instance of the kind, there might nave been, indeed,
and properly, much doubt respecting the credibility of the nar­
rative mentioning it, bad the phenomenon not been seen, and the
nature of it investigated, by those well qualifiedfor the task.—Ed.
With what disdain, what ridicule should we treat
an ancient author, if he told us that a woman had
a breast on her left thigh, with which she nourished
her own and several other children; yet this phe­
nomenon has been vouched for by the Academy of
Sciences at Paris.J The known correctness of the
philosopher who examined it, and the value of the
testimonials upon which he rested his veracity,
would have been sufficient to have placed the mat­
ter beyond a doubt.§
There is still one cause which diminishes and
destroys much of the improbability of marvelous
events: it is the facility which one finds in strip­
ping these events of every thing monstrous, such as
at first provoked a challenge. In order to effect
this, it is always necessary to allow for that spirit
of exaggeration peculiar to the human mind. It
is ignorance which prepares credulity to receive
prodigies and apparent miracles; curiosity excites,
Digitized by UooQle
CREDIBILITY OF THE MARVELOUS. 49
pride interests, the love of the marvelous misleads,
anticipation carries us on, fear subdues, and enthu­
siasm intoxicates us; while chance, that is to say,
a succession of events, the connection of which we
do not perceive, and which also permits us to attrib­
ute effects to erroneous causes, seconding all these
agents of error, sports with human credulity.
Apparent miracles have been produced by the
science or by the address of able men, who, in or­
der to rule the people, have worked upon their
credulity; or, the same individuals have made use
of those prodigies which strike the eyes of the vul­
gar ; of those real or apparent miracles, the exist­
ence of which is rooted in their minds. Both cases
will enter into our discussions. We will develop,
also, the progress of a class of men who, founding
their empire upon the marvelous, are anxious that
it should be recognized in every thing, and as anx­
ious to dupe the stupid multitude, who so easily
consent to see the marvelous every where.
We shall narrow, also, the domain of the occult
sciences within its true limits; the principal end
of our investigations, if we can exactly point out
the causes which, with the efforts of Science and
the works of Nature, concur in producing apparent
miracles; or even in determining the importance,
and solving the nature of the prodigies which thau­
maturgists employ, prompt to bolster up their real
powerlessness by the efforts of their ingenuity.
In this discussion we shall not be afraid of multi­
plying examples, nor of hearing the reader exclaim,
I know all that!” He, doubtless, may know it;
but has he deduced from it the consequences 1 It
is not enough to offer a plausible explanation of
some solitary facts; we must collect and compare &
considerable mass of them, in order to be able to
draw the conclusion that, as in each branch of our
I. D
Digitized by UooQle
50 CAUSES OF HISTORICAL FICTIONS.
system, our explanations tend to preserve the foun­
dation of truth, and to remove the marvelous from
a great number of events, it is extremely probable
this system has truth for its foundation, and that
there are no facts to which it may not apply.
CHAPTER III.
Enumeration and Discussion of Causes.—Singular and deceptive
Appearances of Nature. — Exaggeration of the Details and
Duration of Phenomena.—Improper Terms, ill-conceived and
badly explained.—Figurative Expressions.—Poetic Style.—
Erroneous Explanations of Emblematic Representations.—
Allegories and Fables adopted as real Facts.
So great is the charm attached to any thing of an
extraordinary nature, that the man whose mind is
but little enlightened regrets when his dreams of
the marvelous are dispelled by truth, and is vexed
when forced to confess that the slightest unusual
appearances are, in his eyes, capable of transform­
ing the immovable objects of nature into living or
moving beings. This charm, and the tendency to
exaggeration, which is a consequence of it; the per­
manence of those traditions which would recall
events as still existing that have ceased for ages;
the singular pride which nations have in transfer­
ring into their own history the fabulous and alle­
gorical traditions received from some race preced­
ing them; incorrect expressions ; the still more in­
accurate translations of ancient narratives; the en­
ergy peculiar to the languages of antiquity, and the
figurative style essentially belonging to poetry; that
is to say, to the first language in which the knowl­
edge of the past was impressed on the memory of
the people; the desire natural to a half-civilized
community to explain allegories and emblems, the
meaning of which was known only to the learned;
Digitized by UooQle
TREMBLING MINARETS. 51
that interest which leads both noble and base pas­
sions to make use of the marvelous in acting upon
the credulity of the present and the future: all con­
duce to deception, and are the causes which, sepa­
rately or collectively, have debased the records of
history with an immense number of marvelous fic­
tions, although these repositories ofknowledge have
not required their powerful aid.
*
In order to disencumber truth from the mantle
of the marvelous, it will be found sufficient to
place by the side of the pretended wonders a sim­
ilar fact not yet employed by Superstition in support
of her assertions, and then to separate from the ac­
cessories attached to it some one of those causes,
the influence of which we have just noticed.
The ringing of the bells at Rheims had the ef­
fect of shaking one of the pillars in the Church of
St. Nicasius,! and giving to that heavy mass a vibra­
tion which continued for some minutes. A minaret
of brick, near Damietta, also received a very ap­
parent movement from the pushing of a single man
placed near its summit.^ These accidents, which
were certainly neither foreseen nor intended by the
architects, would, in the hands of a wonder-worker,
become the act of some divinity. The Mosque of
Jethro, at Hhuleh,§ is renowned for its trembling
* One of these fictions, the production, duration, and univer­
sality of which belong to the union of these different causes, ap­
pears to us worthy of a separate notice.—See Appendix, note A,
on Dragons and monstrous Serpents, which have figured in a
great number of historical andfabulous recitals. . ,
f He was the ninth Bishop of Rheims. He was killed in the
sacking of that city by the Vandals, in 407.—(Stilling’s Life of
St. Viventius).—Ed.
t Macrisios, quoted by E. Quatremere, Memoires sur VEgypte,
tome i., p. 340.
- $ Hhuleh, or Halleh, a town situated on the Euphrates, in the
pashalic of Bagdad. In 1741, the traveler, A'bdoul Kerym
(Voyage de VInde a la Mekke, Paris, 1757), witnessed this mira­
cle. He tried in vain to accomplish it himself but jie had not
the secret of the priest. ‘
Digitized by UooQle
52 BIVERS OF BLOOD EXPLAINED.
minaret. The officiating priest places his hands on
the ball at its summit, and invokes Ali; at this sa­
cred name the minaret trembles, and the move­
ment is so violent as to cause the curious, who are
mounted on its summit, to dread being precipitated
below.
Many of the metamorphoses, and of the wonders
consecrated in the history, or embellished by the
poetry of the Greeks and Latins, are no more than
the historical translations of some particular names
of men, nations, or places ;
* and they might be
easily explained if, instead of saying that the recol­
lection of the miracle had given origin to the name
of the town, the man, the people, or the country,
we should say, on the contrary, that the name had
originated the miracle. We have confirmed this
remark in another place, and have, at the same
time, pointed out the origin of these significant
names.
If the adoption of narrations evidently of fabu­
lous origin proceeds from a love of the marvelous,
how much more readily will this disposition lead
us to contemplate with astonishment some of the
sports of Nature, such as the appearances of rivers
flowing in waves of blood, or the resemblance of
rocks to men, animals, or ships 1
Memnon fell beneath the blows of Achilles ;t the
gods collected the drops of his blood, and formed
of them that river which flows through the valley
of the Ida.| Upon every anniversary of that fatal
day, when the son of Aurora fell a victim to his
courage, the waters of that river assume the color
of the blood from which their origin was derived.
* Eisai Hitlorique et Politique sur let Nome d'Hommet, dePcu-
ples, et de Lieux, par Eugene Salverte, passim.
t CL Calaber, Pratermite, ab Homer, lib. ii.
t Train de la Dieeee de Syrie (CEuvres de Lucien), tome v,
p. 143.
Digitized by U>ooQle
RIVERS OF MILK. 53
In this, as in a thousand other instances, the Greek
tradition is copied from one still more ancient.
From Mount Libanus flows the River Adonis; at
the same period of every year it assumes a deep
red tint, and rolls in bloody-looking torrents to the
sea. It is the blood of Adonis; and the prodigy
indicates the period proper for commencing the
mourning ceremonies in honor of this demi-god.
An inhabitant of Byblos explained the phenomenon
by observing, that the soil of Mount Libanus, where
it is watered by the Adonis, is composed of a red
earth, and that, in a certain period of the year, the
wind, drying up the earth, raises clouds of dust,
and carries them into the river.
The water of a lake at Babylon reddens for
several days the color of the earth bathed by it,
“ which suffices,” says Athenius, “ to explain the
phenomenon.” Analogous suppositions account
for the change of color which the River Ida regu­
larly experiences^ During the rainy season, or
when the snow is melting, its waters probably reach,
and partly dissolve a bank of ochreous earth impreg­
nated with sulphate of iron, the presence of which
is detected by the unwholesome vapors emitted
from the stream. The miraculous appearance is
thus reproduced only at a certain period; indeed,
on that particular day when the waters of the river
acquire their greatest elevation.
In Phrygia, where Diana is said to have reward­
ed the love of Endymion, is seen from a distance
the spot which was the scene of their enjoyment;
and we are led to believe that we see a rill offresh
milk, of a dazzling whiteness, flowing near it; but,
on approaching the spot, this milky rill disappears,
and, at the foot of the mountain, a simple channel
*
hollowed in the rock is all that is visible ; the prod­
* Plin., Hist. Natur., book iv., chap. xii.
54 STONE SHIPS.
igy has disappeared. An optical illusion which
dispels itself is sufficient, nevertheless, to perpetu­
ate the belief in the existence of the lactiferous rill.
A rock near the Island of Corfu has the appear­
ance of a ship in sail.
* Modern observers have
confirmed this resemblance, which also struck the
ancients, and which is not a solitary instance. In
another hemisphere, near the land of the Arsacides,
a rock, named Eddystone, rises from the bosom of
the waves, and so closely resembles a ship in sail
that French and English navigators have been
more than once deceived.!
In the present day we only note these singular
objects. In the eyes of the ancient Greeks, the
rock near Corfu was the vessel which, having
brought Ulysses back to his country, was changed
into a rock by Neptune, indignant that the con­
queror of his son, Polyphemus, should again see
Ithaca and Penelope. We must here observe, that
this story is not founded on a poetic fiction only,
but perpetuates a pious custom, practiced by an­
cient navigators, of dedicating to the gods a repre­
sentation in stone of the vessel which had borne
them safely in some perilous voyage. Agamemnon
dedicated a vessel of stone to Diana, when this
goddess, happily pacified, taught the art of naviga­
tion to the warlike ardor of the Greeks. A mer­
chant in Corcyra consecrated to Jupiter a similar
representation, which some voyagers, nevertheless,
believed to be the ship in which Ulysses returned
to his native land.|
• Observations sur I'Isle de Corfu, Bibliothique Universelle,
vol ii., p. 195.
t Labilladiere, Voyage d la Recherche de la Peyrouse, 4to, Paris,
an viii., tome i., p. 215.
t Procopius, Histoire MdUe, chap. xxii. Upon a high hill near
tile town of Vienna, departmentof thelser, is a monument called
tile Boat of Stone. A vaulted cavern ia all now remaining of it.
Its name, explained by no local appearance or tradition, must
Digitized by Google
STORY OF NIOBE. 55
A rock, which is first descried upon the side of
Mount Sipylus, was regarded by the ancients as
the unfortunate Niobe, transformed into stone by
the anger or the pity of the gods. Q. Calaber no­
tices this metamorphosis, at once admitting and ex­
plaining it. “Far off,” he exclaims, “is seen the
figure of a woman, stifled by sobs and melted in
tears; but, on approaching, nothing is visible but
a mass of rock detached from the mountain.”* “ I
have seen this Niobe,” says Pausanias; “ it is a
craggy rock, which, when viewed near, bears no
resemblance to a woman; but, when seen from a
distance, it has the appearance of a female figure,
with the head bent down, as if shedding tears.”t
Endemic diseases have, in figurative language,
been termed the arrows of Apollo and Diana, be­
cause their origin was referred to the influence of
the sun and the moon upon the atmosphere, or,
more properly, to those sudden changes from heat
to cold, and dryness to dampness, attendant upon
the succession of day and night in a mountainous
and wooded country. There is nothing more prob­
able than that one of these diseases, peculiar to the
neighborhood of Mount Sipylus, should have car­
ried off the children of a chief before the eyes of
their distracted mother. Superstitious man, ever
imagining that he sees in misfortune the existence
of crime, believed that Niobe, too proud of the
prosperity of her numerous family, was justly pun-
have been preserved by some ancient fable. It most probably
supported a boat of stone, dedicated to the gods by voyagers
escaped from the perils of the Rhone navigation, and who placed
it on so elevated a spot that all passengers embarked on the river
might see it. * Q,. Calaber, lib. i.
t Pausanias, Attic, xxi. On the Colton Hill, at Edinburgh, is
a tower erected to the memory of Lord Nelson. The rock on
which it stands displays nothing uncommon when viewed near, or
at its base; but at a distance, Tn some positions, it represents a
very accurate profile of the head of the hero.—Ed.
Digitized by
56 IMPBESSIONS UPON KOCKS.
ished for having dared to compare her happiness
to that of the divinities, whose resentment she ex­
perienced ; and in the remembrance of this un­
fortunate mother, as well as observing that the
rock resembles a female figure in tears, credulity
beholds in it the portrait of Niobe; and all this
may, with as much probability, have been a real
history, as an allegory intended to show, by a pict­
ure of the instability of human prosperity, the folly
of presumption. In either case, the priests of
Apollo and Diana seconded, if they did not create,
the established belief, and delighted to show upon
Mount Sipylus this imperishable monument of the
vengeance of the gods.
Oi^ surfaces of rocks, full of inequalities, are al­
most always to be found forms which recall to us
some familiar object. The eye eager in discover­
ing wonders would easily recognize these impres­
sions as the production of a supernatural power. I
will not cite as an instance the impression of the
foot of Budda upon the Peak of Adam, at Ceylon,
because an attentive observer
* has suspected it to
be a work of art; and this, probably, is also the
case with the print of the foot of Gaudma, three
times reproduced in the Burmese Empire, and
which is more a hieroglyphic! than a freak of Na­
ture. But in Savoy, not far from Geneva, the
credulous peasant shows a block of granite upon
which the devil and his mule have left evident
traces of their footsteps. Traces, not less deep,
upon a rock near Agrigentum, mark the passage
of the cattle conducted by Hercules.^ This hero’s
foot has left, also, near Tyras, in Scythia, an im­
• Dr. John Davy, who states this as his opinion in a letter to
his brother, Sir Humphrey Davy.
t Symes’s Travel! in Ava, vol. ii., p. 61 and 73; and Atlas,
plate viii. J Diod. Sic., lib. iv., cap. 6.
^zed by CjOO^Ic
IMPRESSIONS UPON BOCKS. 57
pression of two cubits in length ;
* and upon the
banks of the Lake Regillus, the form of a horse’s
foot, imprinted upon a very hard stone, attests the
apparition of Dioscurus, who announced in Rome
the victory gained by the dictator Posthumusf over
the Latins in that place.
* Herodot., lib. iv., cap. 82.
t Cicer., De Nat. Dear., lib. iii., cap. 5.
t Thevenot, Voyage au Levant, p. 300 et 320.
j Idem, p. 319, 320, 368, 369, 370, 425, and 426.
II Swinburne’s Travels, vol. ii., p. 137.
Mtmoires de la Socitte des Antiguaires de France, tome viii,
p. 454.
Upon the sides of a grotto, near Medina, the Mus­
sulman sees the impression of Mohammed’s head;
and upon a rock in Palestine that of his camel’s
foot, as perfectly marked as it could be in the sand.f
Mount Carmel is honored by preserving the print
of Elijah’s foot; and that of the foot of Jonas is re­
peated four times near his tomb, in the neighbor­
hood of Nazareth. Moses, when hid in a cavern,
left the impression of his back and arms upon the
rock. Near Nazareth the mark ofthe Virgin Moth­
er’s knee is revered by Christian pilgrims; also, the
impressions of the feet and elbows of our Savior
upon a rock rising from the middle of the Brook
Cedron, and that of his foot in the identical place
from which we are assurred he quitted earth to as­
cend to his heavenly abode. The stone upon which
the body of St. Catharine was laid is said to have
softened, and retains the impression of her back.§
Not far from Manfredonia, our admiration is ex­
cited by the face of St. Francis]| in relief, upon the
rock of a grotto. Near the dolmen of Mavaux, the
villagers exhibit a stone which the mare of St.
Jouin struck, and left the impression of her foot,
one day when the pious abbe was tormented by
the devil.fl Another dolmen, in the commune of
Digitized by
58 IMPRESSIONS UPON ROCKS.
Villemaur,
* bears the print of St. Flavy’s ten fin­
gers.
Numerous as these instances are (we might re­
late many more), they fatigue neither faith nor
piety; they are adopted and revered ; and, notwith­
standing the falsehood of the stories, they are be­
lieved in most countries.!
At a little distance from C^iro, the impression of
Mohammed’s feet is exposed to the veneration of
the faithful.^ The Mountain of the Hand, on the
eastern bank of the Nile, is so named from being
supposed to bear the impression of the hand of
Chnst.§ At the north of the town of Kano, in
Soudan, there is a rock which presents to the zeal­
ous Mussulman a gigantic impression ofthe camel’s
foot upon which Mohammed ascended to heaven.||
In the Church of St. Radegonde, in Poitiers, is a
stone upon which our Savior is said to have im­
pressed the form of his foot ;5J and upon a rock near
Vienna the inhabitants of the department of La
Charente still recognize the print of St. Madelaine’s
right foot.
**
Near La Devinidre, a place to which the mem­
ory of Rabelais has given a very different kind of
celebrity, is to be seen the impression of a foot re­
sembling that of St. Radegonde:tt so natural is it
* Mfmoires de la Soci6t6 d'Agriculture du Departement de
I
* Aube. 1 er trimestre.
t How lamentable is it to reflect that such pretended prodi­
gies, the inventions of bigotry and misdirected enthusiasm, should
be regarded as in any degree essential for propagating and sup­
porting a faith which requires nothing but its innate purity to
prove its divine origin and to sustain its truth.—Ed.
t J. J. Mared, Conte
* du Chegh et Mohdy, tome iii., p. 133.
$ Khahl Dakery, cited by E. Quatremere, M^moires sur
VEgypte.
|| Travels in Africa, by Denham, Clapperton, and Oudeney, voL
iii., p. 7, 8, 1832.
Mem. de la Society des Antiquaires de France, tome vii., p.
42, 43. ** Ibid.
tt Eloi Johanneau, Commentaire sur les CEurres de Rabelais,
Digitized by Google
PRETENDED PRODIGIES EXPLAINED. 59
for man to attribute some remarkable prodigy to
places which his national vanity, or his religious
faith, renders dear to him.
In proof of the opinion that there is a desire to
convert natural objects into prodigies, Bethlehem
formerly offered a striking example. According
to Gregory of Tours, when a person reposed upon
the brink of a well, with the head covered up in
linen, the star which guided the three Magi was
seen to pass from one side of the well to the other,
brushing the surface of the water. But,” adds
the historian, “ it was visible to those pilgrims only
who were by their faith worthy of such a favor;
that is to say, to men whose minds were so preoc­
cupied by the truth of the tradition as not to per­
t. v., p. 12. Mankind do not always connect religions notions
with the extraordinary ideas they adopt when endeavoring to
explain some unusual appearance in nature. At the foot of a pre
*
cipitous rock, near Saverne, are four impressions, well marked,
upon the red freestone (freestone of the Vosges). According to
a tradition some three or four centuries old, a nobleman pursuing
a stag, or pursued himself by victorious enemies, was thrown from
the summit of the rock without being hurt, the horse only leaving
the print of his feet upon the stone. We must here observe, that
after the appearance of these prints of the horse's feet, other im­
pressions less in size being discovered, the workmen, it is said,
amused themselves by enlarging the latter and deepening the
former. If it had not been for this last circumstance, the phenom
*
enon would naturally, in the present day, have attracted the at
*
tention of the learned. According to M. Humboldt and other nat­
uralists, the impressions observed upon the freestone of Hildburg
*
hausen must have been made by footsteps ofantediluvian animals,
either quadrupeds or quadrumani, before the stone had complete­
ly hardened. Mr. Hitchcock has discovered upon the red free­
stone of Massachusetts an immense number of the impressions
of the feet of birds of a species no longer existing; but M. de
Blainville thinks it possible that these may be only the impres­
sion of vegetables, similar to those which the red freestone fre­
quently presents.
To this sensible note the editor would add, that impressions
of the feet of animals have frequently been found by geologists in
secondary rocks. An American geologist even asserts that the
prints of human feet are to be seen in the secondary limestone of
the Mississippi, near St. Louis.—American Journal of Science,
vol xxxiii., p. 76.
7
60 PRETENDED PRODIGIES EXPLAINED.
ceive in what they beheld only a sunbeam reflect­
ed in the water.”*
* Greg. Turon., Miracul. Lib., $ 1.
t Gypaetus barbatux, Bearded Griffon of the Alpt of ornithol­
ogists, which Buffbn confounded with the condor, Surcoramphus
Gryphus, Great Vulture of the Andes. No better instance of the
effect of exaggeration, in reference to natural objects imperfectly
known, could be advanced, than the early accounts of the condor.
Setting aside writers of romance, we find Desmarchius, a natural­
ist, stating that the extended wings of the bird measure eighteen
feet; that it can carry off a stag, and will attack a man; and
Linnnus, misled by the narrators of the wild and wonderful, says,
“ that in nearing toe earth, the rushing of its wings renders men
as if planet-struck, and almost deafens them!” The most authen­
tic account of the largest condor ever seen gives the measure­
ment of the extended wings under fourteen feet; and Humboldt
■aw none that exceeded nine feet. The utmost length of the
male bird, from the tip of the beak to the extremity of the tail, is
rather more than three feet; and his height, when perched, two
Secondly, In reducing to truth those histories in
appearance fabulous, it will be often found suffi­
cient to reduce to natural proportions details evi­
dently exaggerated, or to regard as a weak and
passing phenomenon that which is presented as a
continued and active miracle. The diamond and
the ruby, carried suddenly into darkness after a
long exposure to the light of the sun, emit for some
time an apparent phosphorescent light; a circum­
stance which, in the energetic style of the Oriental
writers, has produced accounts of diamonds and
carbuncles illumining all night, by the fires they
emit, the depths of a dark wood and the vast sa­
loons of a palace.
Under the name of Roukh, or Roc, the same nar­
rators have described a monstrous bird, whose
strength exceeds all probability. In reducing this
exaggeration to the measure of positive fact, Buffon
was enabled to recognize in this Roc an eagle,
whose strength and dimensions nearly resembled
those of the American Condor, or the hammer
Geyer of the Alps.t As far as we can judge, the
Digitized by Google
TRADITION OF SC1LLA EXPLAINED. 61
Roc differs in little from tbe Burkout,
* a very strong
black eagle, frequenting the mountains of Turkis-
tan, of whom the inhabitants relate the most extra­
ordinary stories, and have even declared it to be
as large as a camel.
Although we may disbelieve all that has been re­
lated respecting the immense Kraken of the North,
and may accuse Pliny and jElian of having exag­
gerated the dimensions of the two polypi of the sea,
which were, nevertheless, seen by many who ob­
served them, nearly at the same time when these
authors wrote, yet it will be sufficient to admit, with
Aristotle, that the arms of these polypi grew some­
times to six feet seven inches in length; and, with
the authors of the new Dictionary of Natural His­
tory, we may believe that they were able to de­
stroy a man in an open boat.! What becomes,
then, of the tradition of Scylla, that monster, the
scourge of the strongest fish that passed within its
reach, and which, raising its six heads from beneath
the water, drew in upon its long necks six of
Ulysses’s rowers If we substitute for the poet­
ical exaggeration the possible reality, this monster
would be no more than an overgrown polypus of
feet nine inches. The head of the male bird carries a comb, and,
like other vultures, the head and neck are bare of feathers. Tbe
plumage is black, except the wing coverts, which are white ; the
claws are less powerful than those of tbe eagle. The condor
inhabits the Andes at an elevation of 10,000 to 15,000 feet above
the level of the sea: it usually hunts in pairs, and the couple
will attack large quadrupeds; but Humboldt affirms that he nev­
er heard of men, nor even children, having been carried off by
them. From these facts the reader may form some idea of the
reliance to be placed on extraordinaiy stories.—Ed.
* In Russian, Berkout; in Chinese, Kar-tchaa Hiao. Guin
kowski, Voyage a Pekin, tome i., p. 415.
*
♦ See Pliny, Hist. Nat., lib. ix., cap. 30. Julian, De Nat.
Anim., lib. xiii., cap. 6. Aristot., Hist. Animal., lib. iv., cap. 1, et
le Nouveau Dictiannaire d'Histoire NatureUe, 8vo, 1819, tome
xxx., p. 462.
t Homer, Odyss., lib. xii., vers. 90, 100, et 245, 269.
Digitized by
62 PLANTS EMITTING LIGHT.
great size, fastened to the rock toward which these
inexperienced navigators, fearing the whirlpool of
Charybdis, directed their frail vessel. How many
other fables in Homer are merely natural facts ag­
grandized by the poetical conception of the narra­
tor ?
In enumerating plants endowed with magical
properties, Pliny names three, which, according to
Pythagoras, had the power offreezing water.
*
In another place, without reference to magic,
Pliny bestows a similar property on the hemp. Ac­
cording to him, the juice of this plant, thrown into
water, thickens it suddenly to the consistence of
jelly.f Many mucilaginous vegetables produce
the same phenomenon in different degrees; and,
among others, the Althaea cannabina of Linnaeus,
and the rose-colored vervain, Verbena aubletia.
“ We have observed,” says Valmont de Bomasi, in
speaking of this latter plant, “ that three or four
leaves bruised, and put into an ounce of water, will
give to it in a few moments the consistence of ap­
ple jelly.”$ Althaea cannabina produces the same
effect to a certain degree; and it may also be ob­
tained from every vegetable containing much mu­
cilaginous matter: the fact before stated has been,
therefore, merely exaggerated.
The plant named by Lilian Cynospastos and
' Plin., Hist. Nat., lib. xxiv., cap. 12 et 13.
t Idem, lib. xx., cap. 23.
t Dictionnaire d'Hist., art. Oblelia. The common vervain.
Verbena officinalis, indigenous in England and many parts of Eu­
rope, had formerly the reputation of possessing wonderful magic­
al powers. It was termed Hiera Botane, “ Holy Herb,” by Di-
oscorides, and it entered into the composition of various charms
and love-filters. Among the common people, it has still the
reputation of securing affection from those who take it to those
who administer it. It was held in great esteem by the Homans
and the Druids, and the latter gathered it with religions ceremo­
nies. These pretensions of the vervain were first set aside by
the good sense ofour countryman, John Hay, the botanist.—Ed?
Digitized by Gooqlc
PARTICULAR FACTS GENERALIZED. 63
AglaophoLs, and Barras by the historian Josephus,
bears a flame-colored flower, which toward evening
flashes like a kind of lightning.
* It has been stat
*
ed that a similar effulgence might be perceived
upon the flower of the nasturtium at the moment
of its fertilization; and, above all, in the evening
after a very hot day. Experience has not confirm
*
ed this fact; nevertheless, we must not utterly re
*
ject the possibility of other vegetables, such as the
Agaric of the Olive-tree, and the Euphorbia phos­
phorea^ emitting such a light under particular cir
*
cumstanees. The error of Josephus and ^Elian
consists in supposing a casual phenomenon to be
constant.! ,
* Fl. Joseph., De Bello Judaico, lib. viii., cap. 25. jElian, De
Nat. Animal., lib. iv., cap. 27. This plant is the Atropa bella­
donna.
1 Comptes rendus des Stances de VAcadtmie des Sciences, 2
volsn 1837.
t Hasselquist, Voyage dans le Levant, tome ii., p. 90. The
traveler Broucchi not having found the Solanum mclongena on
the borders of the Dead Sea, or near Jerusalem, thinks that Has­
selquist had been deceived, and that the Apple of Sodom is mere­
ly a gall-nut, formed by the incision of an insect upon the Pista-
cia tercbinthus.—Bulletin de la Socittt de Gtographie, tome vi.,
p. 3.
“ In the valleys bordering on the Dead Sea,”
says the traveler Hasselquist, “ the fruit of the So-
lanum melongena (Linn.)J is attacked by an in­
sect (a tenthredo), which converts the whole of
the interior into dust, leaving the skin only entire,
without destroying its form or color.” It is in the
same district that Josephus places the Apple of
Sodom, which, he relates, deceives the eye by its
color, and crumbles in the hand into ashes evolving
smoke, a phenomenon intended to commemorate,
by a permanent miracle, a punishment as just as it
was terrible. This particular incident, observed
by the modem naturalist, has been generalized by
Digitized by
64 LAKE OF AVERNUS.
the ancient historian, who has also added to it the
divine malediction. *
* De Witt Clinton, Preface to the Transactions of the Philo­
sophical Society of New York, 1825. BibHoth^que UniverseUe
Sciences, tome ii., p. 263.
t M. Bose, BMiotheque Universede Sciences, tome v. (Mai,
1817), j>. 24. J Servius, in sEneid, lib. iii., vers. 441.
$ Aristot., De Mirab. Auscult.
An American naturalist
* affirms that, at the ap­
proach of any danger, the young of the rattlesnake
take refuge in the mouth of their mother. A sim­
ilar instance may have induced the ancients to sup­
pose that some animals produce their young by the
mouth, thus drawing a most absurd and hasty con­
clusion from a real fact.
In some cases the duration of a phenomenon has
been exaggerated, and in others that which has
long ceased to exist has been described as still ex­
isting. “ The Lake Avernus,” say the ancient writ­
ers, “ received its name from the fact that birds
could not fly over it without falling down dead, suf­
focated by the vapors exhaled from it.” We know
that, in the present day, birds fly with impunity
near to its surface. Is the tradition thus cited then
utterly falsp 1 Some reasons induce me to doubt:
44 For,” says a traveler,! “ the marshes of Carolina
are in places so insalubrious, and so completely
surrounded by great woods, that, during the heat
of the day, birds as well as aquatic animals die in
attempting to cross them.” Full of sulphureous
springs,^ and, like the marshes of Carolina, sur­
rounded by thick forests, the Lake Avernus§ for­
merly exhaled most pestilential vapors; but, Au­
gustus having had these woods thinned, this insalu­
brity was succeeded by an agreeable, wholesome
atmosphere. The prodigy has ceased to exist, but
the tradition has been obstinately preserved; and
the imagination, struck with a religious terror, look­
Digitized by UooQle
ILL-CONCEIVED EXPRESSIONS. 65
ed for a long time upon this lake as one of the en­
trances to the VaUey of Death.
*
* A real valley of death exists in Java. It is termed the Val­
ley of Poison, and is filled to a considerable height with carbonic
acid gas, which is exhaled from crevices in the ground. If a
man, or any animal, enter it, he can not return; and he is not sen­
sible of his danger until he feels himself sinking under the poison*
ous influence of the atmosphere which surrounds him, the carbon­
ic acid of which it chiefly consists rising to the height of eight­
een feet from the bottom of the valley. Birds which fly into this
atmosphere drop down dead; and a living fowl, thrown into it,
dies before it reaches the bottom, which is strewed with the car­
casses of various animals that have perished in the deleterious
gas.—Ed.
f Plin., Hist. Nat., lib. xxiv., cap. 17.
t Although the above explanation is true in part, yet it is also
true that various odors, such, for instance, as that of ipecacuanha
and of the Pelargonium, or African geranium, cause, in some in*
dividuals, an attack of spasmodic catarrh; in others the odor of
sweet vernal grass, Anthoxanthum odoratum, brings on a fit of
asthma, attended with fever; hence the term hay-asthma; and
such persons always suffer at hay-making time, for, as the grass
dries, the odor is most powerfully exhaled.—Ed.
I. E
Thirdly. Improper or ill-conceived expressions,
not less than exaggeration, tinge a real fact with
a marvelous, false, or ridiculous coloring.
A popular error, the origin of which has been
traced to the instructions of Pythagoras, had for a
long time established some mysterious connection
between particular plants and the diseases which
men suffer at the period of their blossoming; and,
although the disease might be perfectly cured, yet,
when these plants flowered again, the individuals
always re-experiencedt some faint return of the
disease. This is a fact incorrectly stated, in order
to deceive the multitude, who can scarcely distin­
guish the different periods of the year, except by
the phenomena of vegetation: the fact has no con­
nection with the plants, but strictly belongs to the
revolutions of the seasons. The spring, for in­
stance, frequently brings with it periodical returns
ofgout, rheumatism, and even diseases ofthe brain.}
Digitized by UooQle
66 ILL-CONCEIVED EXPRESSIONS.
The appearance offalsehood and prodigy, joined
to impropriety of expression, is more striking when
ancient authors repeat what has been related to
them respecting foreign countries in any other lan­
guage than their own; or when modern writers
translate without fully understanding the originals,
and then accuse them of error.
“ In the vicinity of the Red Sea,” says Plutarch,
“ are seen creeping from the bodies of some dis­
eased people little snakes, which, on any attempt
to seize them, re-enter the body, and cause insup­
portable suffering to the wretched beings.”* This
statement has been regarded as an absurd story,
and yet it is an exact description of a disease call­
ed “ the Guinea worm,” known not only in those
regions, but on the coasts of Guinea and Hindos-
tan.t
Herodotus relates, that in India “ ants larger
than foxes, when digging their holes in the sand,
discover the gold which is mixed with it.”J An­
other edition of this marvelous narration, evidently
compiled from the accounts of the ancients, de­
scribes animals existing in an island near the Mal­
dives, which are larger than tigers, but in form re­
sembling ants.§ In the sandy mountains contain-
* Plutarch, Sympotiac., lib. viii.
t The “ Guinea worm" disease prevails m the marshy districts
of Africa, and among negroes in the West Indies, where it is en­
demic in the months of November, December, and January, and
in the same months at Bombay. The worm is the Filaria dra-
cunculus; it is white, of great length, varying from eight inches
to three feet, and the thickness of a violin cord throughout its en­
tire length, except at the tail, which is thin and curved. It is
supposed to have an external origin, and its eggs to be taken into
the habit with water used as drink; but this opinion requires
confirmation. It appears under the skin, and when it is about to
issue, a small pustule rises, on the bursting of which the head of
the worm is obtruded. It is removed by winding it round a piece
of stick, desisting when it can not be freely drawn forth, and con­
tinuing the winding until the whole is obtained.—Ed.
t Herod., lib. iii., cap. 102.
$ Let MiUe et un Jours, Jour cv„ cvi. jEli&n.
Digitized by Google
FIGURATIVE EXPRESSIONS. 67
mg gold dust, near Grangue, some English travel­
ers have seen animals whose forms and habits in
some measure explain these accounts of Eastern
and Greek historians.
*
* Asiatic Researches, vol. xiu NouveUes Annates des Voyages,
tome i., p. 311, 312.
t Pliny, Hist. Nat., lib. vi., cap. 17. Virgil, Georg., lib. ii., v.
120, 121; but Servius, in his Commentaries, assigns silk to its true
origin. t Ctesias, in Ind. apud Photium.
■ 6 Larcher, Traduction d'Htrodote, 2e edition, tome vi., p. 243.
|| AchiU. Tat., De Clitoph. et Leucipp. Amor., lib. ii. z
Pliny and Virgil describe the Seres as gathering
silk from tl.e tree which bears it, and which the
poet likens to a cotton plant.! This too literal
translation of a correct expression makes it appear
as if the silk were the produce of the tree, upon
which insects deposit it, and from which men gath­
er it. Ctesias speaks of “ a fountain in India which
was filled every year with liquid gold. Every year
the gold was dragged up in a hundred earthen am­
phora, at the bottom of which, when broken, the
gold was found hardened, of the value of a talent.
Larcher turns this account into ridicule, and par­
ticularly insists on the disproportion of the produce
to the capacity of the fountain, which could not
contain less than a cubic fathom of this liquid.§
Ctesias’s account is correct, but not his expres­
sions ; instead of saying liquid gold, he should have
said gold suspended in water. In other places he
is careful to explain that it was the water, and not
gold, which they drew up. In the marshes of Libya
(to which Achilles Tatius compares the above-men­
tioned spot) gold was obtained by plunging poles
plastered with pitch into the mud|| of a fountain
which was the basin of a gold washing; such as
exists wherever rivers or soils containing aurifer­
ous earth are to be found, and of which some very
important ones exist in Brazil.
■ Digitized by UooQle
68 FIGURATIVE EXPRESSIONS.
For extracting the gold the method used in the
present day was that employed ; namely, evapora­
ting the water until the gold was precipitated to
the bottom, and upon the sides of the vessels con­
taining it, which were then broken, and the frag­
ments, no doubt, washed or scraped. Ctesias adds
that iron was found at the bottom of the fountain,
and this statement confirms the truth of his account.
To digengage the gold from the oxyd of iron is
one of the greatest labors of the gold washers of
Brazil.
* The gold of Bambouk, which is also col­
lected by washing, is so mingled with iron and
emery powder as to require great care in sepa­
rating the base from the precious metal.f
* Mawe, Trends in the Interior of Brazil, vol. i., p. 135, 330.
t Mollien. Voyage en Afrique, tome i. p. 334 et 335.
t Plin., Hist. Nat., lib. xxiv. cap. 17, different editions ofPliny’s
work.
From time immemorial the Hindoos have had a
custom of placing a perfumed pastille in the mouth
before addressing any person of superior rank.
This substance, were it described in any other than
the Hindostanee, would be looked upon as a talis­
man, the possession of which was requisite to ob­
tain a favorable reception to its possessor from the
powerful ones of the earth.
The Halliatoris,| we are told, was used in Per­
sia to enliven a feast, or to assist in procuring
places nearest the king; these are figurative ex­
pressions, the meaning of which it is easy to deci­
pher. They are merely intended to show that cer­
tain favor and pre-eminence was shown to him who,
among a people addicted to wine and the pleasures
of the table, was at the same time the gayest and
the most capable of bearing much wine. The Per­
sians, and even the Greeks, exulted in being able
to drink much without suffering intoxication, and
Digitized by UooQle
FIGURATIVE EXPRESSIONS. 69
sought out all kinds of specifics to counteract the
effects of w’ne. For this reason, they ate the seeds
of the cabbage
* and boiled cabbage. Bitter al­
monds were used for the same putpose, and, it ap­
pears, with some success.) All this favors the con­
jecture that the halliatoris was endowed with the
same property, to such an extent that drunkenness
had neither power to confuse the intellect, nor to
pass beyond the bounds of gayety.
* AthennuB, Deipnos., lib. i., cap. 30.
t The bitter almond contains the constituents of Prussic acid
and a peculiar volatile oil, resembling the peach-blossom in its
odor; both are developed when the almond is bruised and brought
into contact with water. When the bitter almond, therefore, is
masticated and receives moisture in the mouth and stomach, the
Prussic acid then formed operates as a powerful sedative upon
the nervous system, and renders the body less susceptible of the
influence ofexcitants, consequently ofwinq. It forms, as it were,
the balance in the opposite scale, and preserves the equilibrium
between the sinking which would result from its use were no
wine taken and the intoxication which would follow an excess
of wine were the bitter almonds not eaten. Plutarch informs mi
that die sons of the physician of the Emperor Tiberius knew this
fact, and, although most intrepid topers, yet they kept themselves
sober by eating bitter almonds.—Ed.
$ Plutarch, Symposiac, lib. L, quest. 6. Athene., Deipnos., lib.
ii., cap. 12. § Plin., Hist. Nat., lib. xxvi., cap. 4.
And what, it may be asked, was the plant Latac£,
which the kings of Persia gave to their envoys, and
in virtue of which their expenses were defrayed
wherever they wentlj It was a peculiar sign, a
rod of a particular form, or a flower embroidered
upon their garments, or on their banners, announc­
ing the titles and prerogatives which were borne
by them.
Instead of the water, which the fugitive Sisera,
exhausted with fatigue and thirst, had supplicated,
Jael, with the intention of making him sleep,§ gave
him milk. What reason have we, who call an
emulsion of almonds milk, for doubting that, in the
original Hebrew, this word signified a somnifer-
Digitized by Googl<
70 FIGURATIVE EXPRESSIONS.
ous drink, deriving its name from its color and
taste.
*
When Samaria was besieged, the town was a
prey to all the horrors of famine; hunger was so
extreme that five pieces of silver was the price
given for a small measure (fourth part of a cab) of
dove’s dung.t This seems, at first sight, ridiculous.
But Bochart maintains, very plausibly, that this
name was then, and is still, given by the Arabs to
a species of vetch (pois chickes).
The Chinese historians affirm that wine in which
the feathers of the Tchin are macerated becomes
a deadly poison; and history contains numerous
instances of poisonings achieved in this manner.^
We are not acquainted with any bird endowed with
so fatal a property ; but the fact may be explained
by supposing that the poison was, in order to pre­
serve it, inserted into the quill of a feather; and
thus, we are told, Demosthenes caused his own
death by sucking a pen.
* Book ofJudges, cap. iv., vers. 17-24. It is surprising that our
author should have attempted an explanation ofan event which re
*
quires none. The following is the passage in the Book ofJudges:
“ Howbeit Sisera fled away on his feet to the tent ofJael, the wife
of Heber the Kenite ; for there was peace between Jabin the king
of Hazor and Heberthe Kenite. And Jael went out tomeetSisera,
and said unto him, Turn in, my lord, turn in to me, fear not. And
when he had turned in unto her, into the tent, she covered him
with a mantle. And he said unto her, Give me, I pray thee, a
little water to drink, for I am thirsty. And she opened a bottle
of milk, and gave him drink, and covered him. Then Jael, He­
ber’s wife, took a nail, a nail of the tent, and took a hammer in
her hand, and went softly unto him, and smote the nail into his
temples, and fastened him to the ground (for he was fast asleep
and weary). So he died.” Every incident is natural; his sleep
arose from fatigue, as stated, and not from a narcotic.—Ed.
t 2 Kings, vi., 25.
t J. Klaproth, Lettre a M. Humboldt sur I’Invention de la Bous-
sole, p. 89. The tchin, according to the Chinese writers, resem­
bled a vulture, and fed upon poisonous serpents. In reference to
Its name, a word has been formed which signifies to poison. (I
owe this note to M. Stanislas Jullien, a member of the Institute
of France.)
Digitized by GooqIc
FIGURATIVE EXPRESSIONS. 71
Midas, king ofThrygia,
* Tanyoxartes, brother
of Cambysesj and Psammenites, king of Egypt,J
died, it is said, in consequence of drinking bull’s
blood, and the death of Themistocles has been at­
tributed to the same cause. Near the ancient town
of Argos, in Achaia, was a temple of Terra: the
moral purity of its priestesses was tried by making
them drink the blood of the bull.§
* Strabo, lib. i. t Ctesias, in Persic, apud Photium.
t Herodotus, lib. iii., cap. 13.
$ Pausanias, Achale. cap. xxv. Whatever was the nature of
the poison termed Buffs blood, Dioscorides (lib. v., 130) inform*
us that the antidote was a mixture of nitre and benzoin.—Ed.,
|| See chap, xxv
Experience has proved that the blood of bulls
does not contain any deleterious property. But, in
the East and in some of the Grecian temples, they
possessed the secret of composing a beverage which
could procure a speedy and easy death, and which,
from its dark red color, had received the name of
bull's blood, a name, unfortunately, expressed in the
literal sense by the Greek historians. Such is my
conjecture, and, I trust, a plausible one. We shall
also, by and by, see how the name, blood of Nes-
sus, which was given to a pretended love philter,
was taken in a literal sense by some mythologists,
who might have been set right by the very accounts
of it which they copied.|| The blood of the hydra
of Lerna, in which Hercules’s arrows being dipped
rendered the wounds they inflicted mortal, seems
to us to signify nothing more than that it was one
of those poisons which archers in every age have
been accustomed to make use of in order to ren­
der the wounds of their arrows more deadly.
And, again, we have a modem instance of the
same equivocation. Near Basle is cultivated a wine
which has received the name of blood of the Swiss,
not only from its deep color, but from the circum-
Digitized by UooQle
72 FIGURATIVE EXPRESSIONS.
stance of its being grown on a field of battle, the
scene of Helvetian valor. Who knows but that, in
a future day, some literal translator may convert
those patriots, who every year indulge in ample
libations of the blood of the Swiss at their civic
feasts, into anthropophagi.
*
* W. Coxe, Letter* upon Switzerland, letter xliii.
t Nicetas, Annal. Man. Comn., lib. i., cap. 4.
t Kracheninnikof, Hist. of Kamtschatka, part i.» chap. 1.
$ Carver, Travels in North America, tyc., p. 80, 81.
To confirm this remark, we have only to seek in
history for proofs of the means by which a simple
fact has been transformed into a prodigy, owing to
the expressions employed to describe it being less
correct than forcible.
Assailed by the Crusaders, and scared by the
looks which these warriors, completely clothed in
metal, darted upon them through their visors, the
trembling Greeks described them as “ men of brass,
whose eyes flashed fire.”t
The Russians, in Kamtschatka, are still called
brichtains, men of fire, an appellation which the in­
habitants gave them, from their imagining, when
they saw them use fire-arms for the first time, that
the fire issued from their mouths.|
Near the burning mountains, north of the Mis­
souri and the River ofSt. Peter, dwell a people who
appear to have emigrated from Mexico and the ad­
jacent countries at the time of the Spanish inva­
sion. According to their traditions, they had hid­
den themselves in the inland country, at a time
when the sea-coast was continually infested by
enormous monsters, vomiting lightning and thunder,
and from whose bodies came men who, with un­
known instruments, and by magical power, killed
the defenseless Indians at immense distances.§
They observed that these monsters could not reach
itized by Google
FIGURATIVE EXPRESSIONS. 73
the land, and, in order to escape from their blows,
they took refuge in distant mountains. We see
here that the vanquished at first doubted whether
these advantages were not more to be attributed to
better arms than to the power of magic. It is
probable that, deceived by appearances, they en­
dowed with life the ships which seemed to move
of themselves, and transformed them into monsters;
and this prodigy has either from that day been firm­
ly rooted in their minds, or, on the contrary, it was
merely a bold metaphor invented to depict and to
perpetuate so novel an event.
But this instance leads us to the consideration of
one of the most fertile causes of the marvelous;
namely, the use of a figurative style.
Fourthly. That style which, contrary to the in­
tention of the narrator, clothes facts in a supernat­
ural coloring, is not confined to the art, or, rather,
the habit, common to lively imaginations, of em­
ploying poetical expressions and bold images in
the recital of those deep feelings, or those facts
which they desire to fix upon the memory. Man
is every where inclined to borrow from the figura­
tive style the name which he gives to any new ob­
ject, with the aspect of which he has been struck.
For instance, a parasol was imported to the center
of Africa, and the inhabitants called it the “ cloud
a picturesque designation which, some day or oth­
er, may become the foundation of a marvelous
story. Our passions, in short, which speak more
frequently than our reason, have introduced ex­
pressions eminently figurative into every language,
which no longer appear to be such, so completely
has their literal sense been lost in the habit of dif­
ferently applying them. To be boiling with anger;
• Travel
* in Africa, by Denham, Clapperton, and Oadeney,
vol. iii, .
Digitized by Google
74 FIGURATIVE EXPRESSIONS.
to bite the ground ; swift as the wind ; to cast one
eyes, are expressions which, if a foreigner, knowin
the words, but not the idiom of the language, wer
to translate literally, would appear nonsense; and
what fables might result! Such, indeed, has been
already done: for instance, we are seriously told
that Democritus, who devoted his life to observing
nature, had put out his eyes, that he might medi­
tate without distraction of mind.
* It has been
told, also, that stags are enemies to snakes, and
can make them fly ;t an assertion depending on
the fact that the smell of burned hartshorn is disa­
greeable to serpents, and causes them to turn away.
* According to Tertullian (Apologet., cap. xlvi.), he blinded him­
self that he might be placed beyond die influence of love, as be
conld not see any woman without loving her. Thia tradition is
also founded on the literal interpretation ofa figurative expression.
1 ,£lian, De Nat. Animal., hb. ii., cap. 9.
t Lacdpede. Hist. Nat. des Serpents, art. Boiquira.
The bites of the boa are not venomous, but the
serpent squeezes its victim to death by twining
round it; and from this fact was derived the fable of
the dragon, whose tail was said to be armed with
an envenomed barb. When pressed by hunger,
such is the swiftness of the boa, that its prey rarely
escapes it: poets have compared its course to a
flight, and vulgar superstition immediately bestow­
ed real wings upon the dragon. The names of
basilisk and asp were employed to designate rep­
tiles so agile that it is difficult to escape their attack
at the moment they are perceived; the asp and
basilisk were, therefore, supposed to cause death
by their breath, or only by their look. Of all these
figurative expressions, the foundation of so many
physical errors, none was bolder than the expres­
sion applied by the Mexicans to describe the rapid­
ity of the rattlesnake : they called it the wind.}
A church threatened to give way, St. Germain
?
b
o
©
Digitized by Google
FIGURATIVE EXPRESSIONS. 75
at Auxerre,
* and St. Francis of Assisi,! at Rome,
sustained the edifice, which, from that moment, re­
mained immovable on its foundations. Credulity
believes this to have been a miracle; but the real
meaning of the allegory is, that the bishop and the
founder of the order were, by the influence of their
doctrine and works, the support of a tottering
Church.
* Butler’s Lives of the Fathers, Martyrs, and Saints, vol. i, p. 137.
Ibid., rol. ii., p. MO.
In prayer and in religious contemplation the fer­
vent man is, as it were, ravished into ecstasy; he
seems no longer to belong to earth, but is raised to
heaven. The enthusiastic disciples of lamblichus
affirmed, in spite of their master’s assertions to the
contrary, that when he prayed he was raised to the
height of ten cubits from the ground and dupes
to the same metaphor, although Christians, have
had the simplicity to attribute a similar miracle to
St. Clare,§ and St. Francis of Assisi.
* Robineau Desvoidy’s Description des Cryptes de VAbbaye St.
Germain d Auxerre (an unpublished work), liber conformitatum,
S. Francisi, Ac. St. Germain was born at Auxerre, of noble
parents, and died at Ravenna. He was originally a lawyer. He
married, and was created a duke by tbe Emperor Honoring ; but
through tbe means of St. Amater he took the tonsure, lived with
his wife merely as a sister, and at the death of Amater waa cho­
sen Bishop of Auxerre. He is reported to have given sight to
the blind, raised the dead, and performed numerous miracles I
—Ed.
t St. Francis of Assisi, the founder of the order of Franciscans,
waa bom in 1182. He was baptized by the name of John, but
waa afterward called Francis, from the facility with which be ac­
quired the French language. His supernatural visions and mira­
cles would fill a volume. He died in 1226, and two years after­
ward he was canonized at Assisi by Gregory IX.
* —ED.
t Eunap. in lamblich.
$ St. Clare, the daughter of Paverino Sciffo, a noble knight,
was bom at Assisi, in Italy, in 1193. At a very early age she dis­
played a strong bias for devout observances ; and at the age of
eighteen received the penitential habit from St. Francis, who
placed her in the nunnery of St. Paul, in Assisi, whence her rela­
tions endeavored in vain to remove her. She afterward, by the
Digitized by C.ooQle
76 FIGURATIVE EXPRESSIONS.
This transformation of an allegory into a phys­
ical fact may be traced to a remote period, if we
can rely on a learned individual of the fifteenth
century, but one who, like most of his cotempora­
ries, too seldom indicates the source from which he
derived his information. Coelius Rhodiginus re­
lates that, according to the Chaldeans, the luminous
rays emanating from the soul do sometimes divinely
penetrate the body, which is then of itself raised
above the earth. This, he says, occurred to Zoro­
aster; and he attempts to explain, in the same man­
ner, the translation of Elijah into heaven, and the
trance of St. Paul.
*
In the kingdom of Fez is a little hill which re­
quires to be crossed either by dancing or with a
great deal of action, in order to avoid an endemic
fever prevalent there.! The relation of this popu­
lar custom, which has existed and been obeyed for
more than a hundred years, has been treated with
scorn by some enlightened men. What, indeed,
at first sight, could have a more ridiculous effect ?
Nevertheless, what is the advice given to all trav­
elers in the Campagna of Rome, and in the vicinity
of the Eternal City ? They are told to struggle
against the drowsiness that will insensibly steal over
them, by forced and violent movements; as yield­
aid of St. Francis, founded the order which hears her name. Her
humility, austerity, prayers, and her contempt for the persecutions
which she suffered, were remarkable even in the period in which
she lived. She died in 1253. The order was brought into England
in 1293, by Blanche, queen of Navarre, and had a house without
Aidgate: the nuns were called Minoresses, as the Franciscans
were called Minors, a name imposed by their founder on account
of their humility. From them the Minories received its name.
—Ed.
. * Arbitrabantur Chcddceorum scientissimi ab rational
* anima
id... effici quandoqueut radiorum splendore, ab ipsa manantium,
illustratum diviniore modo corpus etiam surrigat in sublime, Ac.,
Ao.—Coelius Rhodig., Lection. Antiq., lib. ii., cap. 6.
t Boulet, Description de VEmpire des Cherifs, p. 112.
Digitized by UooQle
FIGURATIVE EXPRESSIONS. 77
ing
* to it only for a moment would expose them to
an attack of fever, always dangerous, often fatal.
In Hai-nan, and in almost the whole province of
Canton, the inhabitants rear a species of partridge,
which they call tchu-ki. They say that the instant
one of these birds is introduced into a house the
white ants quit it; doubtless, because this bird de­
stroys a quantity of them for food. The Chinese,
however, poetically assert that the cry of the tchu-
Tci changes the white ants into dust:
* it would be
converting a ridiculous saying into a prodigy, if
we literally believed this emphatic expression.
We are told, also, that every spring time, in those
deserts which separate China from Tartary, yellow
rats are transformed into yellow quails; and that
in Ireland and in Hindostan the leaves and fruit
of a tree, planted near the water, become first shell­
fish, and then aquatic birds.! In both narrations,
* Jules Klaproth, Description de V Tie de Hai-nan (NouveUes
Annales des Voyages), deuxieme sdrie, tome vi., p. 156.
f The aquatic bird noticed in the above passage is the Barna­
cle goose, and it is scarcely possible to adduce a more striking in­
stance of the credulity of even those regarded, in their period, as
the learned and philosophic, than their belief that the barnacle,
Pentalasmis antifera (Leach), is the origin of that bird. The bar­
nacle is a marine, testaceous animal, covered with a nearly trian­
gular shell, composed of five distinct pieces. The animal itself
is compressed, enveloped in a thin mantle, and furnished with
curled tentacula. It attaches itself by a long, fleshy peduncle to
rocks, to the bottoms of ships, and even to the branches of trees
that grow upon the margin of the sea and dip into the waters.
Many of the old writers described these animals, when they ap­
peared on trees, as the fruit, in which, say they, is to be found the
lineaments of a fowl, and from which, when ripe and dropped into
the sea, the fowl comes forth and takes wing. Even so late as
1636, Gerard, the celebrated authorof the Herbal, a man of learn­
ing, observation, and in many points of acknowledged accuracy,
impresses upon his readers the truth of this absurd fable. He
thus describes the coming forth of the bird: “Next came the legs
of the bird hanging out; and as it (the bird) groweth greater it
openeth the shell by degrees, till at length it is all come forth, and
hangeth only by the bill; in short space after it commeth to full
maturitie, and falleth into the sea, where it gathereth feathers,
and groweth to a fowle bigger than a mallard, and lesser than a
Digitized by UooQle
78 POETIC FICTIONS AND METAPHORS.
if we substitute the idea of the metamorphose for
that of a successive appearance, the absurdity van­
ishes and the truth appears.
*
The amethyst is a precious stone, which is col­
ored and sparkles like wine. Instead of this de­
scription, so coldly exact, figurative language has
substituted an expressive image in its name, A/ze-
flvffrof, amethystos, not intoxicating, or wine that
does not inebriate; and it is from this name having
been literally translated in Greece, that the ame­
thyst was supposed to possess the miraculous pow­
er of preserving from drunkenness the man who
was adorned with it.
Is this, we may ask, the only poetical flight, the
only metaphor which has been transformed into a
history ? Bacchus,! with the thyrsus which he car­
goose.” He adds : ° Ifany doubt, may it please them to repaire tc
me, and I shall satisfie them by the testimonie ofgood witnesses/'
The absurdity of this delusion requires do comment.—Ed.
* Eloge de Moukdem, p. 32 and 164.
t Bacchus was the Roman name for the Grecian god Diony
bus, whom the Greeks, both in Asia and Europe, universally
worshiped. In the whole history of polytheism, we find no rites
more extravagant, sensual, and savage than those of the Dionysia
or Bacchic festivals. The men present at them took the disguise
of satyrs, and the women acted the parts of bacchse, nymphs, and
other inferior deities, and committed the greatest excesses. At
an early period these festivals were often solemnized with hu­
man sacrifices ; and pieces of the raw flesh, cut from the bodies
of the victims, were distributed among the bacchse. (From
the Attic Dionysia, nevertheless, both tragedy and comedy de­
rived their origin.) In Italy, the bacchanalia were scenes of the
coarsest excesses and the most unnatural vices. They were
latterly carried on at night, and often stained with poisonings, as­
sassinations, and every crime. Although conducted in Rome,
and although the number of the initiated was said to be seven
thousand, yet the existence of these meetings appears to have
been unknown to the Senate until A.D. 186, when they were put
down, after a report on them had been made to that august as­
sembly, by the consuls Spuriq^ Postumus Albinas and Quintus
Marius Philippus. The delinquents were arrested and tried;
many of the men were imprisoned, others were put to death; and
the women were delivered to their parents and husbands to be
privately punished.—Livy, lib. xxxix., 14.—Ed.
Digitized by GooqIc
POETIC FICTIONS AND METAPHORS. 70
ried in his hand, having pointed out a spring of
water to the troop who followed his steps,
* “ the
god,” it was reported, “ caused a spring to rise by
striking the ground with his thyrsusand, with a
slight alteration of the fable, we read also that At-
alanta struck her lance against a rock, from which
instantly gushed a spring of fresh water.! It is in
this manner that poetry explains and describes, in
some brilliant allegory, the prodigy that credulity
has laid hold of, but which, in reality, id only the
consequence of its figurative style.
Similar errors may be laid to the charge of his­
tory, and even of natural history. If Rhesus, at the
head of a considerable army, had been able to unite
his forces with the defenders of Troy, the Greeks,
exhausted by a ten years’ struggle, would have de­
spaired of victory. A declaration of what was so
easily foreseen was poetically expressed, and be­
came one of the fatalities of this famous siege.
The Fates, it was said, would not permit Troy to
be taken, if the horses of Rhesus were once per­
mitted to taste the grass which grew on the borders
of the Xanthus, or to quench their thirst in its
waters.
On the celebration of the day of some saint re­
vered in Ireland,^ the fish, if we could believe a
writer of the twelfth century, raise themselves from x
the bosom of the sea, pass in procession before his
. * Pausanias, lib. iv., cap. 36. t Pausanias, Laconic., cap. 24.
t Saint Patrickr the titular saint of Ireland. He was a Scotch
Roman, and was bom in 372, in the Roman village Benaven Ta-
berniee, now the town of Killpatrick, at the moutn of the Clyde,
between Glasgow and Dumbarton. His family name was Cali-
phumia. At an early age he was carried captive into Ireland,
where he was forced to keep cattle, and suffered many hardships,
during which time he is said to have been admonished in a dream
to undertake his mission. Many miracles, equally absurd as the
prodigy noticed in the text, are related as having been performed
by St. Patrick.—Ed.
Digitized by Go
80 POETIC FICTIONS AND METAPHORS.
altar, and disappear after having rendered him hom­
age.
* The saint’s day most probably fell in that
period of the spring when, on the coast where his
church was built, might be seen periodical shoals
of herrings, mackerel, or tunnies.
Nonnosus, who was sent by the Emperor Justin­
ian on a mission to the Saracens of Phoenicia and
Mount Taurus, heard that while the religious as­
semblies of these people lasted, they lived in peace
among themselves and with strangers, “ that even
beasts of prey respected their universal peace, and
observed it toward mankind and their fellows.”!
Photius regards the traveler on this occasion as
a narrator of fables. Nonnosus, however, only re­
peated what he had heard, but mistook for a fact
a poetic expression, or mode of speech, frequently
used in the East, and also to be found in one of
the most eloquent of the Hebrew writers a mode
of speech employed by the Greeks and Romans,
also, in their pictures of the Golden Age, and which
Virgil less happily made use of in his admirable de­
scription of an epizootic (a disease among cattle),
which desolated the north of Africa and the south
of Europe.§
It is a well-known fact that a sudden and striking
alarm often arrests speech; such, for instance, as a
person experiences who finds himself unexpected­
ly before a wild beast. But it has been said that
a man loses his power of utterance when he is seen
by a wolf, although the animal is unobserved by
him. This figurative expression has been even
taken literally, and it has furnished a proverb, which
is not only found in Theocritus and Virgil,|| but in
* Gervais de Tilbery, Otia Imper., cap. 8. Hist. Litt, de la
France, tome xvii., p. 87. J Photius, Biblioth., cod. iii.
f Isaiah, cap. xi., verses 6, 7, 8.
j Virgil, Georg., lib. iii. See, also, Eclog., viii., v. 27.
0 Theocrit., Idyll, xiv., v. 22. Virgil, Eclog., ix., v. 54.
Digitized by Google
EMBLEMS AND SYMBOLS 81
Solinus and Pliny, who have also adopted it. The
former very seriously speaks of “ a particular spe­
cies of wolf in Italy which affects any man it sees
with dumbness; its victim, in endeavoring to cry,
finds that his voice is lost.”*
Varro, Columella, Pliny, and Solinus! relate
that the mares of Lusitania conceive by the breath
of the wind; but Pompeius Trogusf understood
this expression as merely metaphorical of the rap­
id multiplication of these animals, and their swift­
ness in the course.
Fifthly. What emblems are to the sight, a figura­
tive style is to the mind. Their influence has pro­
duced many extraordinary narrations, and in every
age of antiquity they were employed to illustrate
any thing of importance, in dogmas, in recollec­
tions, in morals, and in history. Their meaning,
perfectly understood in the commencement, often
became gradually less so, and after some length of
time was completely lost to the ignorant and unre­
flecting. The emblem, nevertheless, remained, and
when seen by the people, at once commanded their
belief and veneration; henceforth the representa­
tion, however absurd and monstrous, naturally took
* Solinus, cap. viii. Plin., Hitt. Nat., lib. viii.. cap. 22. Solinus
was a Roman author, who borrowed freely from Pliny. The ef­
fect which he describes has been attributed to a supernatural
cause by modern superstition. A woman, in the night, saw four
thieves enter her apartment through the window ; she attempted
to cry, but could not. They took her keys, opened her coffers,
possessed themselves of her money, and escaped by the same
window. The woman then recovered her voice, and called for
assistance. The impossibility of her calling out when the thieves
were in her chamber was said to be the effect of sorcery. Fro-
mann, Tradatut de Fatcinatione, p. 558, 559.
t Varro, De Re Ruttica, lib. ii. Columell., lib. vi., cap. 27.
Plin., Hitf. Nat., lib. viii., cap. 42. Solinus, cap. 26.
t Jnstin, lib. xliv., cap. 3. Pompeius Tragus was a Roman his­
torian in the time of Augustas. His great work, “ Histori© Phil­
ippi© et Totius Mundi Origines,” is known only in the abridgment
by Justinus ; but Pliny, Hitt. Nat., lib. vii., 3, mentions a work
by Tragus on animals.—Ed.
I. F
Digitized by
81 EMBLEMS AND SYMBOLS.
its place in the common belief as the real object it
was originally intended to commemorate. From
a symbol representing religion and laws, emanating
from the supreme Intelligence, sprung the fable that
a falcon had borne to the priests of Thebes a book
containing religious rites and laws.
* Certain isl­
ands of the Nile were, according to Diodorus,t de­
fended by serpents with dogs’ heads, and other mon­
sters. These monsters and serpents were proba­
bly emblems intended to point out that these isl­
ands were consecrated to the gods, and were con­
sequently inaccessible to profane mortals.
How many fables and prodigies in the records of
Egypt, how many in the records of India and of
Greece, have an analogous origin !
' It has been related, and the story is still repeat­
ed without reflecting that the thing is absurd, that
such was the strength of Milo of Croton, that, when
he stood on a narrow quoit, no one could displace
t)r tear from him a pomegranate, which he held in
his hand, but which, nevertheless, he did not press
violently enough to crush; nor could they separate
•from one another the fingers of his right hand, which
he held extended. Milo, says a man learned in re­
ligious rites and emblems, was, in his own country,
high-priest of Juno : his statue placed in Olympia
represented him, according to the sacred rite, stand­
ing upon a little round buckler, and holding a pome­
granate, the fruit of the tree dedicated to the god­
dess. The fingers of his right hand were extended
and joined together, in the manner the ancient
sculptors always represented them.f Thus was
an imperfection of art made the foundation of a
miraculous story.
It is not necessary to dive deep into antiquity for
‘ • Diod. Sic., HE i., par. ii., § 32. t Idem, lib. i., par. i., $ 19.
t Apollonius de Tyanus, Vit. Apollon., lib. iv., cap. 9. ,
Digitized by UooQle
EMBLEMS AND SYMBOLS.
similar facts. In the Middle Ages, figured almanacs
were used as the only means of instructing those
who could not read. To explain to them that a
martyred saint had perished by decapitation, they
painted him as standing and holding between his
hands the head which had been separated from his
body.
* This emblem was doubtless the more ea­
sily adopted, as it had for some length of time fixed
the attention, and consequently the reverence, of
the multitude in the hieroglyphic calendar of a more
ancient religion.!
From the calendars the emblems naturally pass­
ed to the statues and various representations of the
martyrs. I have seen St. Clara in a church in Nor­
mandy ; St. Mitrius at Arles and in Switzerland
all the soldiers of the Thebean legion represented
with their heads in their hands.
St. Valery, also, is painted with his head in his
hands, upon the doors and other parts of the Ca­
thedral at Limoges.§ St. Felix, St. Regula, and St.
■Exuperantius|| are presented in the same attitude
upon the great seal of the Canton of Zurich. This,
.no doubt, was the origin of the pious fable they re­
late of these martyrs, of St. Denis,fl and many
others : such as St. Maurice of Agen St. Prin-
* See Menagiana, tome iv., p. 103. Some of the illustrated
calendars are probably still existing, and may be found in the
cabinets of the antiquary.
f Sphtera Persica, Capricornus Decanus, iii., “DimidiumfgU'
sine cajnte quia caput ejus in manu ejug ext.”
t St. Mitrius is the patron saint of Aix in Provence, where he
suffered martyrdom under Dioclesian.—Ed.
$ C. N. AlJou, Description of the Monuments ofthe Department
of Upper Vienne, p. 143.
U St. Exuperantius is not found upon any Beals before 1240J
11 “ Se cadaver mox erexit4
Truncus truucum caput vexit,
Quo ferentem hoc direxit
Angelorum legio.”
Sung in the offices of St. Denis, until the yean 1789
** M&noires de la Society des Antiquaires de Prance, tome iii,
p. 268, 269.
Digitized by
84 EMBLEMS AND METAPHORS.
cipius at Souvigny, in Bourbonnais; St. Nicasius,
the first bishop of Rouen; St. Lucian, the apostle
of Beauvais; St. Lucain, bishop of Paris ;
* St.
Balsemus at Arcy-sur-Aube; and St. Savinian at
Troyes.t The year 275 furnished no less than three
more headless saints to the diocese of Troyes in
Champagne.^ The origin ofthe above legend may
be traced first of all to some cotemporary hagiog-
rapher having employed a strong figure of speech,
still used among us, who, in attempting to describe
all the obstacles and dangers which attended the
faithful eager to render the last services to the mar
*
tyrs, probably called the forcible carrying away,
and burying of the sacred remains, a real miracle.
The attitude in which the saints were offered to the
public veneration explained the nature of this mir­
acle, and gave some kind of authority for saying
that, although beheaded, the martyrs had walked
from the place of their decapitation to that of their
sepulture.
Sixthly. To what lengths will not a credulous
curiosity extend, when from various explanations
it selects the most marvelous ? The veil of an al­
legory, or a fable, however transparent it may be,
arrests attention.
The crowing of the cock makes the lion fly, is
an old remark, believed in its literal sense by the
ignorant: the better informed know that at the
dawn of day, which is announced by the crowing
of the cock, carnivorous animals voluntarily return
to their dens.
« J. A. Dalaure, Histoire Physique, Civile et Morale, de Paris,
tome i., p. 142.
t Promptuarium Sacrum Antiquitatum Trecassina Diacesis,
v. 335 et 390.
t L. P. Deguerrois, La Saints et Chrftienne, fol. 33, 34, 38, 39,
48. In a life of St. Par, one of these three martyrs, printed at
Nogent-sur-Seine in 1821, this marvelous narration is repeated.
Digitized by UooQle
ALLEGORIES. 85
Moral proverbs clothed in equally transparent
garbs have, nevertheless, passed as axioms of nat­
ural science. Love vanquishes all things, even the
most formidable : the ferocity of a lion is appeased,
we are told, at the sight of a woman unveiled.
In spite of the facility of proving the contrary,
jElian relates that, from the vernal to the autum­
nal equinox, the ram sleeps lying upon his right
side, and upon his left from the autumnal equinox
to the vernal.
* In natural history this is a ridicu­
lous tale, but it is an evident truth in the allegoric­
al language of ancient astronomy.
* JEHan, De Nat. Anim., lib. x.» cap. 10.
t Valer. Maxim., Ub. i., cap. 6, $ 10.
t Herodot, lib. ii., cap. 141.
It is related that in the army which Xerxes led
against the Greeks a man gave birth to a hare; a
prodigy which presaged the issue of that gigantic
enterprise :f it was nothing more than the fable of
the mountain bringing forth a mouse, improved,
perhaps, by lessening the distance between the
physical relations, and by a sarcastic allusion,
through the hare, to an army of fugitives.
Was it intended that we should understand and
believe, as a miracle, the story that innumerable rats,
by gnawing the bow-strings and the straps of the
bucklers of Sennacherib’s soldiers, effected the de­
liverance of the King of Egypt, besieged by that
leader If Assuredly not: it was an expression
used to designate an army incapable, from want of
discipline and from negligence, of resisting the sud­
den attack of the Ethiopians, who arrived to the
assistance of the King of Egypt, and which con­
sequently fell almost entirely beneath their con­
quering sword. The priests, to whose caste the
Egyptian king belonged, willingly favored a lit­
eral interpretation of the allegory, pnd the belief in
Digitized by VjO'
86 ALLEGORIES.
it as a miracle, which they ascribed to their tutelar
divinity, and which saved the national pride from
the humiliation of acknowledging that the victory
was due to the delivering allies. The tradition of
this miraculous deliverance extended further than
the fable which had given it birth; Berosus, quot­
ed by Josephus,
* says that the Assyrian army was
the victim of a scourge, a plague sent by Heaven,
which at once struck down one hundred and eighty-
five thousand men. Thus the Chaldean vanity cov­
ered with an unavoidable misfortune the oppro­
brium of a merited defeat. In the same manner,
fictions which are purely moral, and unconnected
with any fact, become historical traditions. I might
quote the touching parable of the Samaritan assist­
ing the wounded man, when neglected by the priest
and the Levite. In the present day, in Palestine,
it is looked upon not as a parable, but as an histor­
ical fact, and the scene ofit was shown by the monks
to the traveler Hasselquist.f There is, after all, in
this nothing extraordinary nor repugnant to reason;
and the heart, being interested, is tempted to be­
lieve in its reality. Less mindful of probabilities,
a sage, wishing to perpetuate in a fable the maxim,
“that it is not enough to sacrifice for the good of
one’s country riches, luxury, and pleasure, but
more is necessary; and, although held back by the
dearest affections, life itself should be devoted to
it,” he related that a frightful gulf, which nothing
could fill up, suddenly opened in the middle of a
city; the gods, when consulted, declared that it
would only close on the most precious possessions
of mankind being thrown into it. Gold, silver, and
precious stones were instantly but vainly precipita­
ted into it. At length a generous man, tearing
• Fl. Josephus, Ant. Jud., lib. i., cap. 2.
t Hasselquist, Voyage dam le Levant, tome i., p. 184.
Digitized by Gooqlc
ALLEGOBIES. 87
himselffrom a father and a wife, voluntarily plunged
into it, and the abyss closed forever over him.
In spite of the evident improbability of the re­
sult, this fable, invented in Phrygia, or borrowed
from a still more ancient civilization, has passed
into history. The name ofthe hero was Anchurus,
son of Midas,
* one of the kings of the heroic times.
But such is the charm attached to the marvelous,
that Rome, some centuries afterward, appropriated
to herself this fable, which, in place of a general
precept, displays only an individual example. It
was not because the Sabine chief, Metius Curtius,t
who, when almost overcome in the midst of Rome,
left his name to the marsh famed as the scene of
his vigorous defense against the efforts ofRomulus;
it was not because a consul,! directed by the Sen­
ate, inclosed with a wall this marsh upon which
the thunderbolt fell; but it was to perpetuate to
the veneration of’ the people a patrician, on whom
the name of Curtius was bestowed, as having no­
bly, in the same place, thrown himself, completely
armed, into a gulf, which had miraculously opened,
and not less miraculously closed, that Rome bor­
rowed from Phrygia this fable of Anchurus, and in­
troduced it into her own history.^
* Parallels between Grecian and Roman Histories, 4 10. Thia
work, falsely attributed to Plutarch, merits in general but little
Confidence, but its testimony, it seems to me, may be admitted
when its object is to take from history those facts evidently fabu­
lous, regarding which the ancient annalists of Rome do not agree.
Callisthenes, quoted by Stobaeus (Sermo xlviii.), also relates the
devotion of the son of Midas, whom he calls jEgystheos.
t Such is the real origin of the name of the Lacus Curtius, ac­
cording to the historian L. Calpurnius Piso, quoted by Varro
(De Lingua Latina, lib. iv., cap. 32). See, also, Titus Liv., lib.
i., cap. 12,13.
t This was also the opinion of C. ^Elius and of Q~ Lutatius.
(Varro, loc. cit.)
$ Varro (loc. cit.) also relates this tradition, but with the air
of a man who hardly believes it, siace he terms the hero who
precipitated himself into the gulf a certain Curtius, “quondam;
Curttum.”
Digitized by Gooqlc
88 ALLEGOBIES.---NATURAL PHENOMENA.
The desire of increasing the reputation of a coun­
try has favored such plagiarisms. It is one object
of our task to show how often imposture, assisting
the vanity of a nation or a family in effacing a stain
or adding an ornament, has given birth to the his­
tory of prodigies. From an immense number of
instances, we shall select but one. It was con­
stantly repeated that from the amours of the God of
War sprung the founders of a city which was des­
tined to be raised to the highest pitch of power by
the favor of that god; and this story was credited,
notwithstanding the tradition preserved by two
grave historians, that the ferocious Aurelius violated
his niece, Rea Silvia, who became the mother of
Romulus and Remus.
*
CHAPTER IV.
Heal bat rare Phenomena successfully held np as Prodigies pro­
ceeding from the intervention of a Divine Power, and believed
because Men were ignorant that a Phenomenon could be local
and periodical ; because they had forgotten some natural Fact,
which would at once have removed all Idea of the Marvelous ;
and, finally, because it was often dangerous to disabuse a de­
ceived Multitude.—As the ancient Authors have adhered to
Truth in this respect, they may be, also, depended upon in what
they relate of magical Operations.
Although a great number of the wonders men­
tioned in the writings of the ancients may have de­
rived importance from enthusiasm, ignorance, and
credulity only, yet others, on the contrary, such as
the fall of aerolites, have been recognized as real
phenomena, and have not been rejected by enlight­
ened physical science, although it has not always
been able to explain them in a satisfactory manner.
The natural history of our species details many ex-
* C. Licinius Macer et M. Octavius, quoted by Marcus Aure­
lius Victor, De Origine Gentit Romana, cap. 19.
^Digitized by Google
NATURAL PHENOMENA. 89
traordinary events, the existence of which has been
confirmed, but which some observers, whose ob­
servations have been circumscribed within their
own narrow horizon, have regarded as chimerical.
Some of the most ancient Greek writers, such as
Isigonus and Aristeus of Proconesus, have spoken
of pigmies two feet and a half in height; of people
constituting whole nations whose eyes were in
their shoulders; of anthropophagi existing among
the northern Scythians; and of a country, named
Albania, in which were born men whose hair was
white in childhood, and whose sight was exceed­
ingly weak during the day, but became very strong
in the night.
Aulus Gellius
* treats these narrations as incredi­
ble fables; nevertheless, in the descriptions of the
first two people, we recognize the Laplanders and
the Samoyedes, although the diminutiveness of the
one, and the manner in which the heads of the
other are sunk between their shoulders, has been
greatly exaggerated.! Marco Polo asserts that
* A. Gell., Noct. Attic., lib. ix., cap. 4. Solinus, also (cap. 55),
doubtless copying the authors whose testimony Aulus Gellius re­
jected, speaks of a nation the men of which had their eyes in
their shoulders.
t Sir W. Raleigh in 1595, and Keymis in 1596, received from
Hie inhabitants of Guiana the most positive assurances of the ex­
istence of a race of men whose eyes were placed upon their
shoulders, and their mouths in their chests (TheDiscovery ofGui­
ana, by Sir W. Raleigh), that is to say, as the French translator
has reasonably suggested, that tbe necks of these men were ex­
tremely short, and their shoulders very high. P. Lafiteau (The
Manners and Customs of the American Savages, Ac., vol. i., p.
58, 62) observes, that the belief in the existence of such a race of
men is equally entertained in different parts of America, and
among the Tartars in the countries bordering on China. Like
the Samoyedes in Asia, the Esquimaux and people observed by
Weddel at Cape Horn, and in Terra del Fuego and the adjacent
islands, have been tbe origin of this error respecting the natives
ofthe North and South ofAmerica.—A Voyage to the South Pole,
performed in the Years 1822-1824. Geographical Journal.
The natives of Bukaw, in Central Africa, are of so diminutive
a stature as to accord completely with the ancient accounts of
Digitized by Google
90 EXTRAORDINARY STORIES CREDIBLE.
some tribes of Tartars eat the corpses of men con­
demned to death.
* In the inhabitants of Albania
we can not fail to recognize the Albinos. The
name of their supposed country is nothing more
than the translation of the appellation bestowed on
these singular beings from the whiteness of their
hair and the fairness of their skin. Ctesias has
frequently been accused of falsehood upon the au­
thority of the Greeks, whose opinions and preten­
sions were somewhat inconsistent with his narra­
tions. The pigmies that this author describes as
living in the center of Asia, and having their bodies
covered with long hair, recall to our recollection
the Ainos of the Kourila Islands, who are four feet
high, and covered with very long hair. Turner
also saw, in Boutan, an individual of an exceed­
ingly small race. The Cynocephali of Ctesias
(JElian, De Nat. Anim.y lib. iv., cap. 46) may pos­
sibly have been the Oceanic negroes, Alphowrian
*
,
or Haraforas of Borneo and the Malay Islands,
and the monkeys against which, according to the
sacred books of the Hindoos, Rama made war in
the Island of Ceylon.f
pigmies. The Bushmen in Southern Africa, also, may be regard­
ed as a race of pigmies, very few male adults rising five feet in
height, and the females not so much. The latter are delicately
formed, and with remarkably small hands and feet.—Ed.
* Peregrinaiio Marci Pauli, lib. i., cap. 64. M&moires de la
Society de Geographic, tome i., p. 361. The New Zealanders
are confirmed and avowed cannibals; so much so, that, like the
Massagetoe, described by Herodotus (lib. i., 216, they would eat
their own parents. Dr. Martins informs us, that among the an­
cient Tupis of Brazil, when the chief (Paje) despaired of a sick
man’s recovery, he ordered the poor wretch to be killed and eat­
en.—(Lond. Geol. Joum., ii., 199.) The Battas of Sumatra are
also undoubted cannibals.—Ed.
t Malte-Brun, Mtmoire sur VInde septentrionale d’H&rodote et
de Ctesias, Ac. NouveUes Annates des Voyages, tome ii., p. 335-
357. In El Rami, an island near to Serendib (Ceylon), are to be
seen men who are but a metre in height, and who speak an un»
intelligible language.—Geographic d’Edrisi, trad, fr., tome i,
p. TSj
Digitized by GooQle
EXTRAORDINARY STORIES CREDIBLE. R1
In the Argippeans, or w Bald Heads,” of Herod­
otus, we recognize the Mongols, or Kalmucs, a
nation, among whom the monks, or Ghelonga, have
their heads closely shaved. When among this na­
tion, Herodotus was told of a still more northern
people, who slept six months of the year. He re-­
fused to believe this assertion, which was, after all,
nothing more than an allusion to the day and night
of the Polar regions.
*
’ The ancients supposed that pigmies existed in
Africa. A French traveler found some of them in
the Tenda Maia, on the banks of the Rio Grande.
4< There,” said he, “ dwells a race of people re­
markable for the diminutiveness of their figures
and the weakness of their limbs.”! If we descend
from generalities to details, we still find that facts
ofan extraordinary nature, the recollection ofwhich
antiquity has preserved with so religious a fidelity,
have been too often depreciated. “ To suppose,”
Says Larcher, “that Roxana should have had a
child without a head, is an absurdity alone sufficient
to throw discredit on Ctesias.”$ Every medical
dictionary, however, would have shown Larcher
that the birth of a headless, or acephalous child, is
not so impossible.§
The respect to which the genius of Hippocrates
is entitled has been, I suppose, the only reason why
he has not been taxed with falsehood when he
speaks of a disease prevalent among the Scythians
which changed them into women.|| M. Jules Kla­
proth has seen men among the Nogais Tartars who,
losing their beards, and their skin becoming wrin
*
9 Malte-Brun, Memotre, <$•<■., p. 372, 373. Herodotus. .
1 t Mollien, Voyage dans Vlnterieur de VAfrique, fyc. (Paris,
1840), tome ii.j p. 210.
1 t Traduction d’HArodote, 22® 6dit., tome vi., p. 266, note 35.
' j Diet. des Sciences Medicates, art. Acephate.
II Hippocrat., De Acre, Aquis, et Locis. — ..........-
Digitized by CjO(
92 EXTRAORDINARY STORIES CREDIBLE.
kled, have all the appearance of old women; and
such, among the ancient Scythians, were considered
as old women, and no longer treated as men.
*
The history of animals, such as the ancients have
transmitted to us, is filled with details apparently
chimerical, but which are sometimes only the con­
sequence of a defective nomenclature. The name
Onocentaur^ which seems to designate a monster
uniting the forms of a man and an ass, was given
to a quadrumanus which runs sometimes on four
paws, but at other times uses its fore paws only as
hands, merely an immense monkey covered with
gray hair, particularly on the lower part of the
body.t It is only very recently that we have rec­
ognized the Jerboa in the description of those Lib­
yan rats which walked upon their hind legs and
detected in the Erkoom, or Abbagumba of Bruce,
that African bird which bears a horn upon its fore­
* Jules Klaproth, Voyage au Mont Caucate et en Gtorgie, en
1807, ] 808. Bibl. Univ. Litt6raiure, tome vi., p. 40.
t JElian, De Nat. Animal., lib. xvii. This description accords
well with that of the chimpanzee, which, in much ofits organiza­
tion, bears a close resemblance to man, but differs from him in
many important points. In the first place, the chimpanzee, like
all the troglodyte ape tribe, is a quadrumanus, or four-handed
animal; the jaws are much more developed than in the lowest
tribes ofthe human species; the nasal bones are consolidated into
one; the lumbar vertebra are only four instead of five; and the
length of the upper and the shortness of the lower extremities is
a marked distinction. The circumstance, however, of the chim­
panzee walkingoften erect, arming itselfwith weapons, and living
m huts; the form of the head; the long, erect ears; and the hairy
body, might easily have afforded the idea of the onocentaur de­
scribed by ASlian.—Ed.
t Jerboa, Dipus JEgypticus, belongs to the murida, or mouse
tribe, an extensive section of the rodentia, or gnawers. They
have the head and body of a mouse, and a long tail, bushy at the
end. Their fore legs are remarkably short, the hind proportion-
ably longer than in any other known quadruped. Theopnrastus
adds, correctly, “ they do not walk upon their fore feet, but use
them as hands; and when they flee, they leap." It is found in
India as well as inEgypt, and is eatenby one ofthe Hindoo tribes,
called Kunjers.—Ed. .
Digitized by Google
BXTBAOBDINABY STORIES CREDIBLE. 98
lead.
* But what was the Catopleba,] that animal
of the wild sheep or bull species, said to be en­
dowed, like the asp or basilisk, with a breath and
glance of a deadly nature 1 It was the Gnoo de­
scribed by JElian; and the fact is placed beyond
all doubt by the examination of the form of the
head of one of those animals that killed Marius’s
soldiers.^ The head of the gnoo is always de­
clined ; its eyes are small, but quick, and seem al­
most covered by the thick mane which grows upon
its forehead. It is scarcely possible, unless it is
very nearly approached, to perceive its glance, or
to feel its breath ; near enough, in fact, to hazard
being struck by this timid, yet savage animal.§
The proverbial expression of danger to which one
would, therefore, be exposed, has, by the love of
the marvelous, been transformed into a physical
phenomenon.
Cuvier|| has pointed out this resemblance; and,
in discussing the ancient accounts of animals re­
garded as fabulous, has expressed his opinion, that
what we have found so incredible in them is only
the result of incorrect descriptions. These de­
scriptions may have been exact at first, but after­
ward vitiated by details imperfectly preserved by
traditions, or badly translated in memoirs written
* N. Mouraviev, Voyage dans la Turcomanie et a Khiva, p.
224, 225. + Le Constitutionnel du 7 Septembre, 1821.
t Catoblepus Gorgon, the brindled gnoo, an inhabitant of
Southern Africa, in the country near the Orange River, where it
is found in vast herds. The eyes, which are said to have so
deadly a glance, are small, black, piercing, wild, and sinister, and
placed very high in the forehead. In his general aspect, the ani­
mal is singularly grotesque, having the head of a bull, the neck
and mane of a horse, and the slender, muscular legs of the ante­
lope. “His snort,” says Captain Harris, “resembling the roar
of the lion, is repeated with energy and effect.”—Wild Sports of
Southern Africa, p. 27, plate iv.—Ed.
6 Athenaeus, Deip. JElian, De Nat. Anim., loc. cit.
fl Analyse des Travauz de la Classe des Sciences de TInstitui
de Prance en 1815. Magasin Encyclop., annee 1816, tome i., p. 44.
Digitized by C.ooQle
M EXTRAORDINARY STORIES CREDIBLE,
in a foreign language, and probably abounding in
figurative expressions. They may have been cor­
rupted, also, by the inclination which the ancienta
indulged in for drawing men and animals closer
together, and for connecting physical facts with<
causes of a moral nature. Geoffrey St.Hilaire saw
the little ring plover, or dottrel,
* free the crocodile
from the insect suckers which attach themselves to
the interior of its mouth exactly as the ancient
Egyptians have described it. The moderns con­
sidered their recital as a fable, because it was sup­
posed that there existed between the two animals a
* compact of mutual obligation, which could not be
believed. It does not appear that the bird is ever
imprudent enough to enter the mouth of the am­
phibious animal.
After these observations, may we not respectfully
recommend to the learned the examination of those
prodigies formerly exhibited to princes and people
as omens of the future, as signs of the will of the
gods, and undoubted tokens of their favor or their
indignation 1 Natural history might thence be en­
riched by some interesting suggestions, and physi­
ology find many rare instances which, by this ex­
amination, would become less problematical, and
more easily connected with the general scheme of
Nature. I shall, first of all, quote from the collec­
tion of Julius Obsequens. This author seems to
have confined himself to the task of extracting from
the registers to which the Roman pontiffs annually
consigned the prodigies declared to them. In the
unfortunately short fragment of his work which re­
mains to us, we find, besides the mention of fre­
quent showers of stones, the assertion, four times
repeated, that the sterility of mules is not an im­
mutable law of nature; also, the account of a spon-
* Revue Encydpp,, Mai, 1828, p. 300, 30L .
Digitized by Google
EXTRAORDINARY STORIES CREDIBLE; 95
taneous human combustion, which, it was thought,
might have been caused by the reflection of a burn­
ing-glass ; and two examples of an extra-natural
accouchement, the possibility of which has been dis­
cussed and undeniably proved in the present day.
*
Above all, we may mention the observations made
upon an animal presenting a similar phenomenon to
that of the young boy of Verneuil (Amedee Bis-
sieux) in 1814.1 In 1826, a young Chinese, with­
out being much inconvenienced, had a headless
fetusJ attached to his chest and breast bone. In
* This child was born at Bengal in 1753, lived four years, and died from
the bite ofa serpent.—Phil. Trans., vol. Ixxx., p. 296. Hume’s Comp. Anat.
* Servio Flacco, Q.Calpumio, Coss. Roma pucr wlidutposte­
rior natura parte genitus. Sergio Galba, M. Scauro, Coss.
Idem (peer) postcrwre natura solidus natus, qui, voce inissa, ex-
piravit.—Julius Obsequens, De Prodigiis.
t C. Valerio, M. Herennio, Coss. Maris Vitulicum e.rta deme-
rentur, gemini vitelli in alvo ejus inventi.—Julius Obsequens, De
Prodigzis.
t Stance de TAcadtmie de Paris, 28 Acntt, 1826. These mal­
formations and deviations from ordinary nature are still regarded
as the result of supernatural agency, or as prodigies by the igno­
rant ; but the researches of physiology have demonstrated that
they are merely arrestments, or perversions of the ordinary pro­
cess of development. In these cases, some organs may be either
altogether absent, or defective in parts; or they may be redun­
dant both in number and in parts. In all such cases, the individ­
uals are termed monsters. The varieties of monstrosities are
very numerous; but a few only require to be here noticed, in ad­
dition to those mentioned in the text. Thus, individuals have
been born without arms, while the head and trunk are natural;
others, in whom both hands and feet have been produced, without
arms and legs, and the hands inserted upon the trunk, causing
such a similitude to the seal as to give the name ofphocomeles to
such unfortunate beings. A man, aged sixty-two, of this forma­
tion, was exhibited in Paris in 1800. In other cases, both legs or
both arms have been, as it were, sodered together, so as to form
one member, giving the name symoles or siren to the person. In
some instances, the eyes approach and unite, so as to give the
appearance of a single eye only: hence the name cyclopia; but
these and the symoles seldom live many hours after birth.
Children have been born, and have lived for years, with two
heads, and in one case the accessory head was planted on the
summit of the natural head.
* Many instances have occurred in
which otherwise perfect individuals are bom united together by
96 BXTBAOBDINABY STORIES CREDIBLE.
the body of a stag, captured by Otto Henri in the
sixteenth century, there was found, if we may be­
lieve the physician, Jean Lange, a well-formed
fetus. Did the frequency of these heteradelphic
monsters (the expression used by M. Geoffrey de
St. Hilaire to designate the union of two beings,
one ofwhich is not completely developed) formerly
originate the belief in hermaphroditism, or the al­
ternate change of sex in the hare and hyena? We
may believe it, since a single observation of this
kind, made upon the catpium (probably the
marten), has been also converted into a general
fact.
* It would not be uninteresting to ascertain
whether martens, hyenas, and hares present this
singularity more frequently than other animals.
In the fabulous times of Greece, Iphis and Caenis
were both seen suddenly to change their sex by
the beneficence of a divinity. The ancients have
related similar metamorphoses in less uncertain pe­
riods. Pliny quotes four instances, and relates one
as having been confirmed by himself.t Accurate
observations have proved to the moderns, that in
some part of their bodies, but free in all the others. Two remark­
able cases of this description are well known. One was of two
sisters, who were born united in Hungary, in 1701. They were
christened Helen and Judith, and lived to the age of twenty-two,
when Helen was attacked with disease of the lungs ; soon after
which, Judith, who was in perfect health, also became ill; and
both expired at the same instant. The second case was that of
the Siamese twins, who were exhibited in London in 1829-30.
They were fine-looking boys of twelve years of age, but united
by a production of the navel of each. The writer ofthis note saw
them, and found them intelligent boys. He is uncertain whether
they are alive. In all such cases, the formation of twins was the
intention of nature, bad not disturbing causes interfered with the
development. In no instance has the monstrosity been of such
a description as to place the being out of the natural series to
which it belongs; and in every instance, however great the de­
viation, the species to which the individual belonged has been
readily recognized.—Ed.
* JElian, 2)e Anim., lib. xviit, cap. 18.
t Plin., Hist Nat., lib. vii., cap. 4.
EXTRAORDINARY STORIES CREDIBLE. 97
some human beings the development of the sexual
organs is so tardy as to offer the appearance of
such a transformation.
M. Geoffroy de St. Hilaire has described a poly-
dactyle horse as having fingers separated by mem­
branes ;
* yet, when ancient authors have spoken of
horses, the feet of which bore some resemblance to
the hands and feet of a man, they have been ac­
cused of imposture. The history ofinanimate bod­
ies is not less rich in singular facts, which the an­
cients considered as prodigies, and which the mod­
erns long regarded as fables.
* Stance de VAcadtmie de Paris, 13 Aout, 1807.
t JElian, Var. Hist., lib. x., cap. 50.
t Bayle, Dictionnaire Historique et Critique, art. Egnatia,
note D. § Philostrat., Vit. Apollon., lib. iii., cap. 3.
II Journal de Pharmacie, annte 1815, p. 520. #
if N. Mouraviev, Voyage dans la Turcomanie et a Khiva, p.
224 225.
I. G
Upon Mount Eryx, in Sicily, the altar of Venus
was situated in the open air,t and upon it burned,
night and day, an unextinguishable flame, without
wood, coal, or cinders, and in defiance of the cold,
the rain, and the dew. Bayle,| one of those phi­
losophers who has rendered the greatest service to
the human intellect, regards this as a fable. He
would not have received with more indulgence
the account which Philostratus§ gives of a cavern
observed by Apollonius near Paraca, in India,
whence continually issued a sacred flame of a lead­
en color, emitting neither odor nor smoke. Nev­
ertheless, nature has kindled similar fires in other
places. The fires of Pietramala, in Tuscany, are,
according to Sir Humphrey Davy, owing to an es­
cape of carbureted hydrogen gas.|| The perpet­
ual fires admired at the Atisch-gah (place of fire),
near Bakhou, in Georgia,are fed by the naphtha
with which the soil is impregnated. These are
Digitized by UooQle
98 EXTRAORDINARY STORIES CREDIBLE.
sacred fires, and the penitent Hindoos have sur­
rounded theirs with an inclosure of cells, similar
to those raised round the fire of Mount Eryx, the
temple of Venus. In Hungary, in the salt-mine of
Szalina, in the circle of Marmarosch,
* a strong
current of air, rushing from a gallery, ignites spon­
taneously. It is carbureted hydrogen gas, similar
to that employed in the present day for lighting
our streets. For this purpose, it has been profita­
bly applied, and with a success which apparently
will prove durable, since the gaseous effusion is no
less uniform than abundant. In the province of
Xen-si, in China, several wells emit volumes of car­
bureted hydrogen, which is applied by the inhab­
itants to the common uses of life.! Phenomena,
similar to those we have described, would, at the
disposal of thaumaturges, become powerful auxil­
iaries to superstition. The ignorant have been led
to believe that water was metamorphosed into
blood; that the heavens rained blood; and that the
snow lost its natural color, and appeared stained
with blood; and even that flour bread has offered
a blood-imbued nourishment to man, from which
severe diseases arose. These are the facts we find
in ancient history, and even in some modern writ­
ings, almost of our own times. '
In the spring of the year 1825, the waters of the
Lake of Morat presented an appearance, in many
places, of being colored with blood, and popular
attention was directed toward this strange appear­
ance. M. de Candolle,! however, proved that the
phenomenon was caused by the development of
myriads of those creatures which are called Oscel-
* Le Constitutionnel du 7 Septembre, 1826.
t Extract from the Account of Vanhoorn and Van Kampen,
1670. Stance de VAcadtmie des Sciences, 5 Dtcembre, 1836.
t Professor de Candolle, the most distinguished botanist of the
present period.—Ed.
f
Digitized by Google
EXTRAORDINARY STORIES CREDIBLE. 99
latoria rubescene {purple conferva of Fuller), and
which form the link in the chain between animal
and vegetable beings.
* The phenomenon occurs
every spring, and the fishermen then say the lake
is in flowerj M. Ehrenberg, when sailing on the
Red Sea, discovered that the color of the water is
occasioned by a similar circumstance.^ It would
not, therefore, be impossible for a naturalist, were
he to study the mode of reproduction of the oscel-
latoria, to convert the waters of a pond, or a portion
of a river or running stream, into apparent blood.
We are acquainted with many natural causes
which explain those stains observed on stones and
the walls of buildings, which might easily be im­
agined to be caused by a shower of blood. The
phenomenon of red snow, less often remarked, al­
though as common as the other apparent blood
stains, yet results from many natural causes. Nat­
uralists have attributed it sometimes to the pollen
powder of a species of pine; sometimes to small
insects, or minute plants, which attach themselves
also to the surface of certain marbles,§ and to those
calcareous pebbles which are found on the sea-
shore.H
* Revue Encycloptdique, tome xxxiii., p. 676.
t The phenomenon, on the occasion referred to, continued for
Beveral months. In the advanced period of the day, the lake ap­
peared covered at a little distance from its banks with long, par­
allel, red lines, which were driven by the wind into the small
bays, and, being collected round the weeds, formed a spume of a
beautiful color, varying from greenish black to lively red. A pu­
trid odor exhaled from the shallow places. The flesh of the pike
and the perch became as red as if they had been fed on madder,
and the small fish died.—Ed.
t Revue Encycloptdique, tome xxxiii., p. 783; and Nouvelles
Annales des Voyages, 2d edit., tome vi., p. 383.
$ See, on this subject, the interesting memoir ofM. le Professear
Agardh, Bulletin de la Soctett de Gtozraphie,vQ\..vi., p. 209-219 ;
and the Memoire de M. Turpin, on the red substance which is
found on the surface of white marbles, Acadtmie des Sciences, st­
ance du 12 Dtcembre, 1836.
JI The account of the red snow which Captain Hoss observed
Digitized by C.ooQle
too EXTRAORDINARY STORIES CREDIBLE.
In the environs of Padua, in 1819, the polenta
prepared with the flour of maize appeared covered
with numerous little red spots, which were soon
considered, in the eyes of the superstitious, as drops
of blood. The phenomenon appeared many suc­
cessive days, although pious terror sought, by fasts,
prayers, masses, and even exorcisms, to bring it to
a termination. Those feelings, excited to an al­
most dangerous degree, were at length calmed by
a naturalist,
* who proved that the red spots were
but the results of a mold, until then unobserved.!
in the Arctic region, and the specimen of the substance which
that officer brought home, excited in no ordinary degree the atten­
tion of the naturalists, botanists, and chemists of Europe, and
many theories were formed to explain its nature. The most sat­
isfactory opinion was given by Professor Agardh, in a memoir
published in the twelfth volume of the Nova Acta Natures Curl-
osorum. p. 737. The professor first notices a shower resembling
sulphur that fell near Lund, and which was found to be the farina
of the fir; and two showers of apparent blood; more especially
one which fell at Sbonen in 1711, occasioned by insects, but which
the Bishop of Swedberg pronounced to be a miraculous interven­
tion of the Divinity, ana not a natural event. He then mentions
most of the parts of Europe where red snow has been observed
*
and also the opinions of botanists respecting it; especially that
of Baron Wrangel, that it was a species of lichen, which he
termed Lepraria kermesina; but Dr. Agardh regarded it to be
one of the alg<e, and named it Protococcus nivalis, or kermetinut.
He examined it under the microscope, and found that it consisted
of minute, blood-red, opaque particles, perfectly round and ses­
sile ; they were both aggregated, forming little clusters, and sol­
itary. He considers that there is a great affinity between it and
the infusory animals, beings which seem to be the link between
the animal and the vegetable kingdom, and which pass into each
other, and for the existence of which the agency of light and
heat is essential. The protococcus has never been seen except
on white bodies. It has been asserted by naturalists that it is
precipitated from the atmosphere; but this opinion has not been
made out. Agardh supposes that the melting of the snow, and
the vivifying power of its light, contribute to the production of this
plant; but I may remark, that although these powers may call
the plant into existence when its spawn or germs are present,
yet we are still in the dark as to whence it is derived. An ex­
cellent figure and account of the plant is contained in Dr. Gre-
ville’s Scottish Cryptogarnic Flora, vol. iv., p. 231.—Ed.
. * Revue Encycl^£dique, p. 144, 145.
t Blood spots, as these were termed, were first observed during
Digitized by C.ooQle
EXTRAORDINARY STORIES CREDIBLE. 1Q1
The grain of the bearded darnel [Lolium temv-
lentum), mixed with wheat, gives a reddish tinge
to bread baked on the ashes; and if thi# food be
eaten, it occasions violent giddiness. Thus,4 in' all
the examples quoted, the natural effect being •sat­
isfactorily made out, the marvelous disappears, and
with it falls the accusation of imposture or ridicu­
lous credulity with which ancient authors are so
frequently accused.
On the surface of the hot mineral springs of Ba­
den, in Germany, and on the waters of Ischia, an
island in the kingdom of Naples, the zoogdne is
gathered, a singular substance, resembling human
flesh and skin; and which, after undergoing the
process of distillation, produces the same results
as animal matter. M. Gimbernat
* has seen rocks
covered with this substance near the Gastie of L6-
pomena, and in the valleys of Sinigaglia and Ne-
the great general plague in the sixth century, and again during
the plague of the years 786 and 959. “ The same spots, also, in
the years 1500 to 1503, threw the faithful into e^eat consternation,
because, as on the former occasions, they fancied they recognized
in them the form of the cross.” Crusius, a writer of that period,
even gives the names of many on whose clothes crosses were vis­
ible. In the vicinity of Biberach, on the Rhine, a miller’s lad, who
ventured to make rude sport of those supposed markings of the
cross, was seized and burned.
* These spots, on the last-mention­
ed occasion, spread through Germany and France. They were
principally red, but they varied in color. They appeared on the
roofs of houses, on clothes (whence the name Lepra vestuum),
on the veils and neckerchiefs of women, on household utensils,
and even on meat in larders. George Agricola, a naturalist who
lived at the time, recognized them as lichens, and regarded their
appearance as an indication of extensive disease.! At so late a
period as 1819, a red coloring mold appeared on vegetable and
animal substances in the province of Padua, which excited super­
stitious apprehensions among the people4—Bo
* Journal de Pharmacie, 1821, p. 196.
* Hecker’s Epidemics of the Middle Ages, trans. 1844, p. 205.
t Agricola, De Peete, 1554, lib. i., p. 45.
i Vincenzo Sette, SulV Arrosimento Straordinario, Ac., quoted byHeck­
er, foe. ct/., p. 206, note. '
Digitized by UooQie
102 EXTRAORDINARY STORIES CREDIBLE1.
gropont.
*
- ’This affords an explanation of those
showers of human flesh which held a place among
the-prow.d of the prodigies of antiquity, and which
epcbited an excusable dread in those who beheld in
l^em an announcement of the decrees of fate, or
threatenings of the Divinity, and who would im­
pute to divine intervention every rare and oppor­
tune event.!
• It is most probablyan hsmatococcns, one ofthe zoocarpa, pecu­
liar organized bodies variously classed by botanists and zoologists
as animals or plants, owing to the difficulty of determining to
which division ofthe organic kingdom ofnature they belong.—Ed.
t There can be no doubt that every event in the system of na­
ture is under the direction of the Deity; but this does not set
aside the agency of secondary causes, which are continually op­
erating, and by whose influence we explain both the ordinary
phenomena ofnature, and rare and opportune events.—Ed.
t 'liman, lib. lii., $ 10. $ CL Curt., lib. vii., chap. 10.
II Timkowski, Voyage a Pekin, tome ii-, p. 277.
In 1572, some time after the massacre of St
Bartholomew, a hawthorn blossomed in the Cime-
tifere des Innocents fanaticism saw in this pre­
tended prodigy a convincing proof of the approba­
tion of Heaven of the destruction of the Protestants.
When the soldiers of Alexander were digging
wells in the vicinity of the Oxus, they remarked
that a spring flowed in the tent of the king; as they
had not at first perceived the water, they pretended
it had arisen suddenly, and was a gift of the gods;
and Alexander was willing they should believe it
to be a miracle.§
The same wonders have been displayed in very
different times and places. In 1724, the ChinesA
troops, pursuing in Mongolia an army of rebels, suf­
fered severely from thirst. They discovered a
spring near the camp, and cried out that it had is­
sued miraculously from the ground. This favor
was attributed to the spirit of the Blue Sea,|| which
lay in the vicinity of the spot where the miracle
Digitized by C>ooQLe
EXTRAORDINARY STORIES CREDIBLE. 108
was observed, and the emperor ordered a monu­
ment to be raised to record the event.
The Emperor Isaac Comnenus, being overtaken
by a violent storm, took shelter under a beech-tree.
The noise of the thunder alarmed him; he there­
fore changed his place, and immediately afterward
the beech was uprooted by the violence of the
wind. The preservation of the emperor’s life
passed for a miracle, owing to the intercession of
St. Thecla,
* whose day is even now observed by
the Christians, and to whom Isaac Comnenus ded­
icated a church.t
The rain which so opportunely succored Mar­
cus Aurelius in the war against the Marcomans
was attributed by the Christians to the efficacy of
their prayers ; by Marcus Aurelius to the favor of
Jupiter; by some polytheists to an Egyptian magi­
cian ; and by others to the astrologer Julianas; but
all concurred in regarding it as a celestial prodigy.
When Thrasybulus came, at the head ot the ex­
iled Athenians, to deliver his country from the yoke
of the thirty tyrants,J a fiery meteor illumined his
path : it was regarded as a divine fire, sent by the
gods to guide him in the darkness of the night, and
to conduct him by roads unknown to his enemies.
The falling of aerolites has so frequently hap­
pened, that it may concur with the moment of a
combat; and such a coincidence probably gave rise
to the fiction that Jupiter rained stones on the en­
emies ofHercules.§ Were we to credit the Arabs,
a similar shower crushed, at the foot of the walls of
* St. Theda was a native of Isauria. She was well educated,
and is renowned for her eloquence, which she is said to have re
*
ceived from St. Paul, by whom she was converted from pagan­
ism, and on whom she attended in several of his apostolical jour­
neys.—Butler's Lives of Saints, Ac., p. 498.—Ed.
T Anna Comnena, Hist, de VEmpereur Alexis Comndne, liv.
iii., chap. 6. t Clement. Alex., Stromat., lib. i.
$ This fable may also be explained by supposing it a specimen
Digitized by UooQle
104 EXTRAORDINARY STORIES CREDIBLE.
Mecca, the Ethiopians, who were the profane be­
siegers of the sacred city.
* It is also related that
Basil, chiefofthe Bogomiles, returning in the even­
ing from the palace of the emperorf to his cell,
was assailed by a shower of stones, not any of which
were thrown by a human hand, and that the phe­
nomenon was accompanied by a violent earthquake.
The enemies of Basil deemed this phenomenon a
supernatural punishment upon the heretical monk.
The inhabitants of Nantes, at the time when their
country was under subjection to the arms of Julius
Caesar, took refuge in the marshes, which form at
some distance the river of Bologne. Their asy­
lum enlarged, and became a town, known under
the name of Herbatilicum. In 534, the soil on
which it was built, having been undermined by
water, sank into a lake, which swallowed up the
town ; one part of it, situated on high ground, alone
remained, and is at this day the village of Her-
bauge. Hagiographers promulgated as a miracle
this disaster, which is so naturally explained ; and
we are told that St. Martin, who was sent by St?
Felix, bishop of Nantes, to convert the inhabitants
of Herbatilicum, finding them immovable in the
faith of their fathers, and in consequence of the re­
ception he met with, departed in despair; the town
immediately was ingulfed, and a lake usurped its
place, presenting an enduring monument of the
chastisement inflicted on unbelief.^
of the figurative style. The pebbles which cover the plain where
the battle was fought would furnish abundant ammunition to the
warriors armed with slings, who, under the auspices of their na­
tional god, the Tirynthian Hercules, invaded the south of Gaul,
and fought the natives.
* Bruce, Travels to Discover the Source of the Nile, voL ii., p.
446, 447.
t Anna Comnena, Histoire de VEmpereur Alexis Comnine,
liv. xv., chap. 9.
t Ades de St. Martin^ Abbt de Veriou, in the Preuves de VHis-
Digitized by Google
EXTRAORDINARY STORIES CREDIBLE. 105
In the Bay of Douamanez similar marine ruins
may be observed. These, says ancient tradition,
sire the remains of the town of Is, which was swal­
lowed up by the sea in the commencement of the
fifth century. Gralon, king of the country, alone
saved himself; and the impression made on the
rock by the hoof of the horse that carried him away
is still pointed out.
* Inundation is a local phe­
nomenon, which can not be a matter of surprise;
other ruins on the same coast attest the ravages of
Nature; but it has ever been, in all ages, the in­
clination of man to take advantage of natural dis­
asters, and to announce them as preternatural events
intended for the benefit of mortality.
The ignorance of the fact that certain phenomena
are peculiar to certain localities, has caused some
events to be either revered as supernatural inter­
positions, or rejected as impossibilities. Among
such are pretended showers of nutritive substances.
We are told that, in 1824 and in 1828, a shower of
this kind fell in a district of Persia, and so abund­
ant was the rain that, in some places, it lay five or
six inches deep on the ground. The supposed fallen
substance, however, was a well-known species of
lichen, which the cattle and the sheep eat up with
great avidity, and which was also converted into
very eatable bread.! How many natural occur­
rences have thus passed for miracles.
If the multitude have often regarded as prodigies
some local phenomena, the periodical return of
which they did not reckon upon, ignorance, also, or
forgetfulness, has often obscured the knowledge of
the natural facts, even to the priests themselves,
toire de Bretagne de Dom Morice, tome i., p. 196. See, also, La
Vie de St. Martin, Oct. 24; and La Vie de St. Filbert, August 20.
* Cambray, Voyage dan
* le Dtpartement de FinieUre, tome
ii., p. 221-224.
t Stance de VAcadtmie de
* Science
*
, Aug. 4, 1826.
106 EXTRAORDINARY STORIES CREDIBLE.
who proclaimed them as prodigies. The following
example affords a proof of this remark. The Ele­
ans worshiped Jupiter Apomyios (the fly-catcher),
and, at the commencement of the Olympic games,
a sacrifice to the god was performed for the banish­
ment of all the flies. Hercules, in the place where
a temple was afterward raised to him, invoked the
god Myagrus
* (also a fly-catcher), on which ac­
count, the story adds, the flies were never after
seen in that temple.f But, independent of the use
of secret means, such as certain fumigations, which
drive away flies, the disappearance of these insects
was only a natural consequence of the profound ob­
scurity which always reigned in heathen sanctuaries.
In order to discover whether the prodigy bestowed
the surname on the god, or whether the surname
of the god was the origin of the pretended prodigy,
let us examine where the worship of the fly-catch­
ing god commenced.
In Syria and in Phoenicia the god Belzebuth, or
Baalzebud,| the god, or lord of the flies, was wor­
shiped ; and, at the approach of Pluto, or Her­
cules, the Serpent, the constellation which rises in
October, all the flies disappeared. But such a co­
incidence could only occur, and be consecrated by
religion, in a country where the presence of the
flies amounts almost to a plague, and where the
revolution of the seasons regulates their periodical
return.
* Myagrus, or Myodes, was an Egyptian demi-god.—Ed.
t Solinus, cap. i. Plin., Hist. Nat., lib. x., cap. 28; and lib.
xxix., cap. 6.
t The name of Baal-zebud may be traced in that of Bal-zub,
under which the ancient Irish worshiped the sun as the God of
Death; that is, the sun of the inferior signs; the same as Serapis
and Pluto (C. Higgins on the Celtic Druids, p. 119). It is difficult
now to prove a common origin between the divinities of Ireland
and those of Phoenicia. Baal-zebud was in Phoenicia the star of
the autumnal equinox, the god whose annual arrival put an end
to the plague of flies.
Digitized by CrOOQle
EXTRAORDINARY STORIES CREDIBLE. 107
The inhabitants of Cyrene made sacrifices to the
god Achro to be delivered from flies.
* This draws
us nearer to the point we desire to arrive at. It
•was from the platform of Meroe,t far from the form­
idable Tsaltsalya, that the shepherds took flight to
await the autumnal equinox, the desired termina­
tion of his six months’ reign. They must have
worshiped, in this conqueror of flies, the constella­
tion of the equinox, afterward represented by Ser-
rapis, Pluto, and the Serpent. In the countries
where this divinity was adored, as changing the
face ofthe earth and the destinies of men, the lively
impression made on those who had frequently wit­
nessed the plague, over which he triumphed,concur­
red to extend his worship from Cyrenaica into Syr­
ia among the Phoenicians.
The Romans and the Greeks, perhaps, also bor­
rowed this superstition; but it is remarkable that
Greece attached itself only to African traditions.
The Arcadians of Henea joined the worship of the
demi-god Myagrus, which they had acquired from
Africa, to that of Minerva. Their tradition report­
ed, indeed, that Minerva was bom in Arcadia; but
it was on the margin of the fountain Tritonides that
we are told the same wonders were displayed]: as
those which assigned the Lake, or River Tritonis,
• Plin, Hist. Nat.
t Modern geographers have differed in fixing the locality of
Meroe; but M. Cailloux has settled the question. He describes
it to be that part of Africa in the vicinity of the Nile, which is
formed into a kind of peninsula by the Nile itself not its branch­
es Astapus and Astaboras, as formerly supposed. The river
bends in such a manner as nearly to insulate a space so large,
that to travel round it requires many weeks, while across its neck
is only one day’sjourney. Its inhabitants resembled the Egyp­
tians in their refinement and their architecture; indeed, Meroe
was supposed to have been the cradle ofmost of the religious in­
stitutions of the Egyptians.—En.
t Pausanias, Areaa., cap. xxvi. The Boeotians, also, of Alaloo-
menn show in theircountry a river Triton, on the banks of which
they placed the birth of Minerva.—Pausanias, Boot., cap. xxxiii.
Digitized by
108 EXTRAORDINARY STORIES CREDIBLE.
in Libya, as having the honor of being the birth­
place of Minerva. An Arcadian colony, which
established itself among those bills on which, at a
future period, Rome was built, carried there the
worship of Hercules. If Numa owes to the Tyr­
rhenians the knowledge which induced him to conse­
crate at Rome, under the name of Janus,
* a temple
to the planetary god of Meroe,t it was most prob­
ably communicated by the companions of Evander,
who, long before bis time, had raised an altar on
the banks of the Tiber to the annual liberator of the
Rivers Astapus and Astaboras.
When the worship of this local divinity was thus
propagated among a people to whom it must have
been foreign, the prodigy attributed to him arose
naturally from the interpretation of his name, ofthe
origin of which they were ignorant. Analogous in­
ventions have at all times been numerous, and espe­
cially when they were often fostered by the exhibi­
tion of the emblems appropriated to the name
which the god bore, and regarding which the sup­
posed prodigy furnished a plausible explanation.
The vulgar, for whose adoration prodigies are
presented, believe, without reflecting on the nature
of their belief; the man of education submits, from
habit, to the established belief; the endeavors ofthe
priest is to make it respected, and to increase his
own influence.^
* Janas was merely a symbolical representation of the year.
Some of his statues held the number 300 in one hand and 65 in
the other.—Ed. t Lenglet, Introduction d I'HUtoire, p. 19.
X It is curious to observe superstition holding her sway over the
minds of the ignorant long after the sun of Christianity dispelled
the shade! of idolatry and shed its benign influence upon this
island. Kirk, in his Essay on Fairies, seriously informs us that
these beings changed their places of abode at each quarter of the
year; “ and at such revolution of time/’ says he, “ seers, or men
of the eecond eight, have very terrifying encounters with them,
even on the high-ways; who, therefore, usually shun to travel
abroad at these four seasons of the year, and thereby have made
Digitized by UooQle
EXTRAORDINARY STORIES CREDIBLE. 109
Miners who have died from suffocation were at
one time thought to have been killed by the de-
it a custom to this day, among the Scotish-Irish, to keep church
duly every first Sunday ofthe quarter to sain or hallow themselves,
their come and cattell, from the shots and stealth of these wan­
dering tribes ; and many of these superstitious people will not be
seen in church againe till the next quarter begin, as if no duty
were to be learned or done by them, but all the use of worship
and sermons were to save them from these arrows that fly in the
dark.”* The popular creed, also, at the same period, and almost
onward to the present day, was burdened with the belief in omens
and auguries, while the common people nourished as sacred the
most absurd superstitions and observances. Reginald Scot, who
wrote a work entitled “ Discoverie of Witchcraft,” says, “ Amongst
us there be manie women and effeminat men (manie papists al-
waies, as by their superstition may appeare) that make great
divinations upon the shedding of salt, wine, &c.; and for the ob­
servation of dates and horses, use as great witchcraft as in anie
thing. For if one chance to take a fall from a horse, either in a
slipperie or in a stumbling waie, he will note the daie and hour,
and count the time unlucky for a journie. Otherwise he that re-
ceiveth a mischance will consider whether he met with a cat, or
a hare, where he went first out of his doores in the morning; or
stumbled not at the threshold at his going out; or put not on his
shirt the wrong side outwards, or his left shoe on his right foote.”*
Reginald’s namesake, Sir Walter Scott, informs us that super­
natural appearances are “ still believed to announce death to the
ancient Highland family of MacLean of Lochbuy. The spirit of
an ancestor slain in battle is heard to gallop along a stony bank,
and then to ride thrice around the family residence, ringing his
fairy bridle, and thus intimating the approaching calamity.”! Sir
Walter refers to this omen in the Lady of the Lake :
“ Sounds, too, had come in midnight blast,
Of charging steeds, careering fast
Along Benharrow’s shingly side,
Where mortal horseman ne’er might ride.”
The tomb-fires of the Scandinavians, the tan-ice of the Welsh,
were also omens announcing death; and it was generally be­
lieved that when a freeholder was about to die, a meteor was al­
ways seen either to shoot over and vanish on his estate, or to gleam
with a lurid light over the family burying-ground. Mrs. Grant, in
her Essays on the superstitions of the Highlanders of Scotland,
relates a singular instance of the belief of a learned and pious
clergyman in the predictive property of these tomb-fires, well
worthy of perusal.^ The apparition of the ” corpse candle,” can-
wyll corph, implicitly believed in Wales, is a light which is sup-
* Kirk’s Essays on Fairies, p. 2, 3.
+ Scot’s Discoverie of Witchcraft, p. 203.
t Lady of the Lake, p. 106.
§ Vide Grant’s Essays, &c., vol. i., p. 259.
110 EXTRAORDINARY STORIES CREDIBLE.
mons of the mine, who were infernal spirits, guard­
ians of treasures hidden in the depths of the earth,
and who destroyed all covetous men for endeavor­
ing to penetrate to their asylum. In these ancient
and universal traditions we recognize the effects of
exhalations and noxious gases which are disen­
gaged in subterraneous places, particularly in mines.
In order to preserve the miners from their deadly
influence, science has investigated their nature, and,
by thus acquiring a control over them, has dissipated
the phantoms which were created by ignorance and
terror. But could this have been attempted with
success had science been able only to point out the
evil without having discovered the remedy ? Could
science have dared to promulgate its beneficial dis­
covery when princes, who committed their gold to
the bosom of the earth, beheld in those superstitious
terrors the surest safeguard of their hidden treas­
ures? or, even, so long as the miners referred to the
influence of the demons of the mine, hot only the
real dangers that surrounded them, but also attrib­
uted to them their own awkwardness, their faults,
and their misconduct in their subterranean dwell­
ings ?
*
* Meyrick’s Hirtory and Antigmtiet of Cardiganshire, 4to, p. 123.
To science it still belongs to denounce and to
eradicate such universal errors, which may be re­
posed to pass from the habitation of a person about to die to the
church-yard, precisely along the path which the funeral must af­
terward proceed. It is believed to be a mark of divine benefi­
cence conferred upon the Welsh, from the prayers of St. David,
who, on his death-bed, obtained a promise that none of his flock
should die without having previous intimation of his death. The
Welsh have implicit beliefin the apparition; they give the name
** canwyll corph,” also, to the inflammable gas fired by electricity
in boggy grounds, and which they believe indicates the death of
a Welshman in some distant country. They have also credulity
sufficient to give credence to another apparition, which they call
teulu, a kind of phantasmagoria representation of the funeral.
*
—Ed. * J. Tollins, Epist. Itiner., p. 96, 97.
Digitized by UooQle
EXTRAORDINARY STORIES CREDIBLE
* 111
garded. as real epidemics, by which multitudes are
duped, although without a deceiver. At one time
it was believed, in some parts of Italy, that the
accouchement of women was always accompanied
by the birth of monsters, an event which was be­
lieved so common, that these monsters were desig­
nated “Brothers ofthe Lombardi, or Salernitans;”*
and they went so far as to believe that, in the patri­
cian families, they were noble animals, such as
eagles and hawks; and, in the plebeian families,
the baser animals, such as lizards and toads. This
belief gave rise to frequent accusations of sorcery,
productive of atrocious condemnations; and at that
time any learned man would have shared the samfe
fate as the victims whom he might have desired to
save, if, in opposing the general extravagance of
opinion, he had unveiled some ill-observed or in­
correctly reported phenomenon as the orign of it,
and thus exposed the deceptions inspired by folly,
or interest, or the spirit of revenge.!
* Fromann, Tractateg de Fagcinaticne, p. 622, 623, 626, Frater
L&nbardorum yet Salemitarum. Rabelais probably alluded to
this absurd belief in the prodigies described as having preceded
the birth of Pantagruel (liv. ii., chap. 2), prodigies which have al­
ways been regarded as deserving a place among those extrava­
gant fictions which are sometimes destined to serve as passports
to bold truths.
+ In the commencement of the seventeenth century, a French
priest having been, by an unlucky chance, attacked by one of the
lower animals in a manner too disgusting to relate, was accused
of sorcery by bis own brother. On the outcry of the whole town,
struck with horror, he was taken before the tribunal ofjustice, and
constrained, by the pains of the torture, to confess an imaginary
crime, for which he was condemned, and suffered an ignominious
death. Could a well-informed man, had he then related what
Aristotle had written twenty centuries before regarding the
charge, have ended the scandal, and terminated an absurd crim­
inal prosecution, or prevented its abominable issue ? A man en­
lightened, amid a blind population, would he not have been
called upon to exculpate himself as a favorer of the crime, and as
an accomplice of the sorcery 1 Such a result might be suspected,
when we are told that the illusion was entertained even by the
celebrated Aubigne, one of the most enlightened men of the time
in which he lived.
Digitized by C.ooQle
112 EXTBAOBDINABY 8TOBIES CREDIBLE.
To explain many tales of sorcery, and elucidate
many features in mythology, it is only necessary to
observe the deviations from the usual course of
Nature among tame animals, and among those in a
state of confinement, and detached from the society
of their fellows.
But it would have been in vain for the voice of
science to have raised itself to explain a phenome­
non in which enthusiasm beheld a prodigy, espe­
cially when men who had the power of creating
belief had an interest in persuading the multitude
that the prodigy was real. The priesthood would
have menaced him in the name of that divinity
whose rights he might be accused of contemning.
Eresicthon, so says an ancient fable, used his ax in
cutting down a wood consecrated to Ceres. Some
time afterward he was attacked by the disease
named Bulimia,
* a malady which was as well
known in the times of the ancients as in our own.
He suffered insatiable hunger, which he attempted
in vain to satisfy. His wealth soon disappeared,
all his resources failed, he sank under his malady,
and died of inanition. The priests of Ceres conse­
quently triumphed; and a fable, invented by them,
records that the impious Eresicthon perished mis-
* Medical and Physical Journal, vol. in.
* The quantity of food consumed in some of the well-authen­
ticated cases of this extraordinary disease is almost incredible.
Among others, Dr. Cochrane, of Liverpool, has recorded the case
of a man, placed under his own personal inspection, who, in one
day, consumed four pounds of raw cow’s udder, ten pounds ofraw
beef, and two pounds of candles, besides five bottles of porter.
The disease has appeared in persons of all ages; and many of
them seemed to be, in every other respect, in good health. They,
however, have usually soon died, and not unfrequently of appa­
rent inanition.
* The unfortunate Thessalian, mentioned in the
text, is said to have been driven to devour his own limbs. Ovid
extends the tradition, and completely destroys its probability, by
relating that the daughter of Eresicthon could transform herself
into any animal she pleased; a power which she employed for
her father's benefit.—Metamorp., f. xviii.—Ed.
Digitized by C.ooQle
EXTRAORDINARY STORIES CREDIBLE. 113
erably, the devoted victim of the vengeance of the
goddess whose gifts are bestowed for the nourish­
ment of the human species.
*
■ Such were the nature of those accidents which
the priests knew how to turn to advantage, when
circumstances threw them in their way; nor did
they allow a single phenomenon of this kind to es­
cape their investigation. The Roman pontiffs, how­
ever, did not introduce the practice of inserting in
registers the miracles which were every year
brought to light; they borrowed the custom from
the Etruscan priests, whose sacred books are fre­
quently quoted by Lydus ;t and it is more than
probable that this usage has existed in all the an­
cient temples. With whatever intention they may
have been at first established, such records must,
in the end, have afforded very extensive informa­
tion. It is difficult to collect a series of philosoph­
ical observations without even involuntarily draw­
ing comparisons.
For instance, it would be interesting to discover
what is reasonable or scientific in the judgment giv­
en by a priest or an augur, on the results of a mir­
acle, or the expiatory ceremonies prescribed for
displaying them. Often, without doubt, it was only
meant to disturb, or to reassure the alarmed imag­
ination ; often ignorance and fear blindly obeyed
a superstitious custom, however stupid or ferocious.
But, as Democritus informs us, the condition of the
entrails of the animals sacrificed would furnish to
a new colony, disembarked on an unknown shore,
a probable idea of the nature of the soil and the
climate on which their future welfare depended.^
• Modern superstition equals in many respects the ancient.
Fromann [Tract, de Fascinatione, p. 6, 13) quotes instances of
Bulimia, which might be regarded as examples of persons pos«
•eased by a devil. t Lydus, De Ostentis.
| There can be no doubt that valuable information on the score
II. H
Digitized by C>ooQle
114 .EXTRAORDINARY STORIES CREDIBLE.
r The inspection of the liver of the victims, an op­
eration which afterward served as a basis for many
predictions, had originally no other object. Ifthey
found it in all victims presenting an unhealthy char­
acter, they concluded there was little salubrity, ei­
ther in the waters or the pastures. The Romans
were also regulated by similar indications in de­
termining the foundations of towns and the posi­
tion of fortified camps.
* Such examples prove
that some of the religious practices of the ancients
emanated from positive science, founded on long
observation; and in these we may still discover in­
structive vestiges and real philosophy.
We have now reason for believing that magical
performances were much more useful to the priests
than prodigies, since, far from happening suddenly,
the precise moment, the extent, and the nature of
the results were entirely dependent on the will of
man. The apparent miracles related by the an­
cients explain themselves naturally; their accounts
of them can not, therefore, be regarded as false­
hoods ; and wherefore should their recitals be doubt­
ed, when they treat of magical performances, which
also admit of explanations not less satisfactory I It
can only be believed that the priests possessed and
kept secret the knowledge necessary to operate
these wonders. Let us not overlook the rule by
which our belief may be regulated; namely, the
measures of favorable or of contrary probabilities.
Is it likely that, in every country, men, whose ve-
of health might occasionally be obtained from such inspections;
yet animals, like men, become naturalized to the localities in
which they have long resided, and do not suffer from their insa­
lubrity as animals or men newly transported to them. More ac­
curate information can be obtained from observing the description
of animals, reptiles, and insects peculiar to the country, and par­
ticularly the plants indigenous to the soil.—Ed.
* Vitruvius, De Architect., lib. i., cap. 4. Cicer., De Dioni^
tlib. L, cap. 57. .
Digitized by UooQle
ORIGIN OF magic; 116
racity we have established on points which have
been powerfully attacked, should relate so many
absurd wonders, and yet have only for their object
to impose upon the ignorant 1 Is it not more prob­
able that the recitals are founded on truth, and that
these wonders have been affected by means acquir­
ed from the study of the occult sciences, which
were shut up in their temples 1 And does not this
likelihood approach to certainty, if we admit that
careful observation and a patient comparison of all
prodigies and extraordinary facts would endow
the priests with a considerable fund of practical
knowledge, and that from these researches magic
may have originated 1
CHAPTER V.
Magic.—Antiquity and Universality of the Belief in Magic.—Its
Operations attributed equally to the Principle of Evil and of
Good.—It was not considered by the Ancients to imply the Sub­
version of the Order of Nature.—Its Truth was not disputed,
even when emanating from the Disciples of an inimical Re­
ligion.
Time, the only power which refuses to regard
any thing as invariable, sports with creeds, as it
does with facts : it passes on ; and, in leaving tra­
ces on its steps of the vestiges of obsolete opinions,
we are astonished to find expressions once nearly
synonymous now differing very widely with re­
spect to the ideas which they are intended to convey.
During a long period of time the world was gov­
erned by magic: an art which, as the sublimity
of its origin was credited, appeared little less than
a participation in the powers of Divinity, and
which, at the commencement of our era, was even
admired by religious philosophers “ as the science
Digitized by GooQle
116 ORIGIN OF MAGIC.
which unveils the operations of Nature,
* and leads
to the contemplation of celestial powers.”! A hun­
dred and fifty years later than the period just men­
tioned, the number of its professors, and still more
the worthlessness of the charlatans who made it
their trade, held magic up to the contempt of all
enlightened men. So much, indeed, was this the
case, that Philostratus, in his biography of Apollo­
nius of Tyana,| asserts with eagerness that his
hero was no magician.§ In resuming its import­
ance, during the darkness of the Middle Ages, mag­
ic became an object of horror and dread ; but the
progress of knowledge, and the dawn of truth in
the last and in the present age, has again reduced
it to an object of ridicule.
The Greeks gave the title of magic to the sci­
ence in which they had been instructed by the
Magi ;|| and they thus established to the founder of
that religion the claim to its invention. But, ac­
cording to Ammianus Marcellinus,fl Zoroaster had
* Phil. Jud., Lib. De Specialibus Lesibus.
t Idem, Lib. Quod omnis probu,s liber.
t This Apollonius, for there were many of the name, was a
Pythagorian, and an assumed magician, who gained much rep­
utation by a few remarkable coincidences which seemed to es­
tablish his pretended power of looking into futurity, and knowing
what events were transacting in distant countries at the time
he was relating them. Thus, at the very moment the Emperor
Domitian was stabbed, Apollonius stopped short in the middle
of a harangue he was delivering at Ephesus, and exclaimed:
“ Strike the tyrant—strike him!” and when the news of the as­
sassination afterward arrived,, he asserted that he had seen the
transaction passing in his mind’s eye. Although pne of the most
impudent impostors of his period, yet he was courted by princes,
ana commanded almost universal homage. The stories told of
his supernatural power by Philostratus are utterly unworthy of
belief.—Ed. $ Philostrat., Vit. Apollon., lib. i., cap. 1, 2.
|| The Mobeds, priests of the Guebers, or Parsees, are still
named Magoi in the Pehivi dialect.—Zend-Avesta, vol. ii., p. 506,
chap. ix.
if Ammian. Marcell., lib. xxvi., cap. 6. An historian of the time
of Constantine, who wrote a history of Rome, and who, although
a pagan, and consequently favorable to polytheism, yet was mod­
erate in his censure of Christianity.—Ed.
Digitized by Gooqlc
ORIGIN OF MAGIC. 117
.no Other merit than that of making considerable ad­
ditions to the art of magic as it was practiced by
the Chaldeans.
* In the wars carried on against
Ninus by Zoroaster, who was King of Bactria, Ar-
nobeusf affirms that on both sides magical arts were
employed in common with more ordinary weapons.
The prophet of the Arieni, according to the tradi­
tions preserved by his disciples, was subject from
the cradle to the persecutions of magicians; and
just before his birth the world teemed with these
pretenders to supernatural power.J Saint Epi-
phanius§ relates that Nimrod, in founding Bactria,
established there the sciences of magic, and of as­
tronomy, the invention of which was subsequently
attributed to Zoroaster. Cassien speaks of a treat­
ise on Magic|| which existed in the fifth century,
and which is attributed to Ham, the son of Noah!
The father of the Church just quoted, places the
commencement of magic and ofenchantments as far
* The period in which Zoroaster, or Zerduster, lived is uncer
*
tain, but his religious system became that of Western Asia from
the time of Cyrus to the conquest of Persia by Alexander the
Great. The doctrine of a good and an evil principle was the
foundation of his religious system. He taught that both were
created by the Almighty ; but that man and all the materials of
happiness were created by the good spirit, who was named Or-
muzd; while the latter, Ahriman, introduced all the evils abound­
ing in this world. The magi were the sacerdotal class in ancient
Persia: they worshiped fire and the sun as the emblems of Or-
muzd.—Ed. t Arnob., lib. i.
t Life ofZoroaster. Zend-Avesta, tome i., part ii., p. 10,18, &c.
§ S. Epiphan., Advers. Hares., lib. i., tome 1. Saint Epipha-
nius, although a Christian bishop, yet was born of J ewish parents
at Besanducan, near Eleutheropolis. in Palestine. In early life
he was a disciple of the Gnostics in Egypt; was made Bishop
of Salamis, the metropolis of Cyprus, in the year 368, and died
at sea A.D. 403. His writings are valuable as containing many
quotations from works no longer extant. Jerome affirms that he
was well acquainted with the Latin, Greek, Hebrew, Syriac, and
Egyptian languages, and calls him pentaglottos, the five-tongued;
but Scaliger doubts bis learning, and asserts that he committed
the greatest blunders, and told the greatest falsehoods.—Ed.
|| Cassien, Conferen., lib. i., cap. 21.
Digitized by Google
118 ORIGIN OF MAGIC.
back as the time of Jared, the fourth from Seth,
the son of Adam.
Magic holds a prominent place in the traditions
of the Hebrews. The ancient inhabitants of the
land of Canaan had incurred the Divine wrath by
their use ofenchantments.
* The Amalekites fight­
ing with the Hebrews,! in their flight from Egypt,
and Balaam besieged in his city by the King of die
Ethiopians, and subsequently by Moses,| alike re­
curred to magic as a mode of defense.§ The
priests of Egypt were looked upon even in Hin­
dustan as the most subtle of all magicians. Not
less versed than themselves in the secrets of their
science,|| the wife of Pharoah was able to commu­
nicate its mysteries to the remarkable child saved
from the waters of the Nile by her daughter; and
who, “ learned in all the wisdom of the Egyptians,
was mighty in words and in deeds.”fl Justin, agree­
ing with Trogilius Pompeius, relates that Joseph,
having been carried into Egypt as a slave, acquired
there the arts of magic, which enabled him to fore­
see and to avert the horrors of famine, which, with­
out this interposition, must have depopulated that
beautiful kingdom.
**
* That Joseph might have acquired some of the learning of the Egyp"
tians, and even a knowledge of ma^ic, is not improbable; but Justin has
no authority for referring his foresight of the famine, which he predicted
and provided for, to that art.—Ed.
From the earliest ages magic has obtained thp
* Wisdom of Solomon. "Whom thou Latest for doing most
odious works of witchcraft, and wicked sacrifices ; and also those
merciless murderers of children, and devourers of man's flesh, and
the feasts of blood, with their priests out of the midst of their
idolatrous crew, and the parents that killed with their own hands
souls destitute of help.—Chap, xii., ver. 4—6.
t De Vita et Morte Mosis, fyc., p. 35. f Ibid., p. 18-21.
J Les Mille et une Nuils, 5O7e Nuit (traduction d’Edouard Gaw
thier), tome vii., p. 38.
II De Vila et Morte Mosis, fyc., note, p. 199.
T[ Acts ofthe Apostles, cap. vii,, vers. 22.
** Justin, lib. xxxvi., cap. 2.
*
Digitized by Google
ORIGIN OF MAGIC
* lift
* M. Greg. Conrad Horst published, in 1820 and 1821, The Li­
brary of Magic, 2 vols. 1 have not been able to consult the Ger­
man original; what I quote from it here, and in the 4th chapter,
is obtained from a notice which the erudite M. P. A. Stapfer bas
had the kindness to communicate to me.
t Plin., Hist. Nat., lib. xxx., cap. I.
t Ibid., lib. xvi., cap. 14; lib. xxiv., cap. 11; lib. xxv., cap. 9;
lib. xxix.. cap. 3.
$ Odin flourished about 70 years B.C., as a conqueror, a priest;
and a monarch. He took advantage ofthe ignorance and credulity
of his countrymen, the Scandinavians, to impose upon them the
most absurd ideas of his supernatural power. He fell by his own
hands; and, in dying, promised eternal felicity to such of his fol­
lowers as should lead a virtuous life, fight with intrepidity, and
die in the field of battle.—Ed.
H The Gothic women were supposed to possess, in a peculiar
degree, the faculty of looking into futurity; on which account,
highest consideration in Hindostan. M. Horst
* es­
tablishes the truth that the collection of the Vedas
contains many magical writings. He remarks, that
the laws of Menou, in the code published by Sir
William Jones, mention various magical ceremo­
nies which are permitted to be employed by the
■Brahmins (chap, ix., p. 11). There exists also in
■Hindostan a belief not less ancient, and which like­
wise prevails in China, that, by the practice of cer­
tain austerities, the penitent acquires an invincible
and truly magical power over the elements, over
men, and even over the powers of heaven. The
Hindoo mythology, in many places, represents pen­
itents dictating laws, and inflicting punishments on
■the Supreme Divinity.
If from the East we carry our inquiries West­
ward, and toward the North, we find magic bearing
equal marks of ascendency, and of high antiquity.
Under its name, “ Occult Science/’ it was known to
the Druids of Great Britain! and those of Gaul.$
Odin, so soon as he bad founded his religion in
Scandinavia, was regarded there as the inventor of
magic.§ Yet how many had preceded him! Voel-
ours, or Volveurs,|| priestesses well versed in magic,
Digitized by GooQle
120 ORIGIN OF MAGIC.
were associated with the ancient religion, which
Odin attempted either to destroy or to remodel.
*
The first tales of Saxo Grammaticus are connected
with times greatly anterior to the age of Odin :
there are few of them which do not contain a dis­
play of magical power.
Erudition and physiological criticisms have ar­
rived at a point of perfection which renders it su­
perfluous to discuss the question, whether a knowl­
edge of the occult sciences was obtained by the
Northern tribes from the Greeks and Romans.
There is sufficient reason for saying that they were
not;f and there can be but little doubt that the
Greeks and Romans were but the imperfect schol­
ars of the sages of Egypt, of Asia, and of Hindos-
tan. At what period the communications of the
priests of the Ganges with the Druids of Gaul, or
the Scalds of Scandinavia, took place, it is difficult
to determine. He who can develop the origin of
superstition, and of the human sciences, may be
those among them who made profession of magic and divination
were every where received with respect and honor. On this
fact the Vegtams Kivitha, or Descent of Odin, so admirably trans
*
lated by Grey the poet, is founded. Odin wends his way to
JNiflheliar, the hell of the Goths, to consult Hela, the Goddess of
Death, who, in life, had been one of these prophetesses.
° Right against the eastern gate,
By the moss-grown pile he sate ;
Where long of yore to sleep was laid
The dust of the prophetic maid.”
His object was to know the fate of his son Balder, who waa
sick, and for whose life he was alarmed.—Ed.
* Munter, On the most Ancient Religion of theNorth, before the
Time of Odin. Dissertation extraite par M. Depping, Atemoires
de la Society des Antiquaires de France, tome ii., p. 230, 231.
; t M. Tiedmann has put this truth beyond a doubt. See his
Prize Dissertation in 1787, crowned by the Academy of Gottin­
gen. De Qucestione qua:fuerit artium magicarum artium origo;
quomodo iUa, ab Asuepopulis ad Grcecos atque Romanos, atque
ab his ab cateras gentes sintpropagates quiousque rationibus ad-
ducti fuerint ii qui, ad nostra usque tempora, easdem vet defends
*
rent, vel oppugnarent ? Marpurg, 4to, p. 94, 95. I have taken ad­
vantage more than once of this excellent Dissertation by Tiedmann.
ligltized by GoOgk
NATURE OF MAGIC. J21
supposed also capable of informing us of the source
of magic. But, in reference to the period in which
magic was assiduously studied, we are taught to
believe that the sages attempted to govern nature
by means of science, in the name of the principle
of all good ; and at another, by the art of working
miracles through invocations of the evil powers.
This distinction of equal and unequal powers op­
erating against one another, being sometimes pro­
ductive of similar results, may be traced in the
history of Zoroaster, and in that of the Hindoo my­
thology ; and such must always be the case where
men of opposing interests are endowed with the
same resources. Who were the evil genii i The
gods and the priests of rival religions. This omen,
or that miracle, still in fact the same, was attribu­
ted by one set to the intervention of Heaven; by
another, to the interposition of the infernal demon;
according as particular opinions prevailed, or ac­
cording to the locality where they occurred.
To this direct opposition respecting the origin of
miracles, alternately th'e objects of adoration and
of abhorrence to the superstitious, was allied the
unanimous concurrence as to their reality. The
general assent of mankind is said to be an irref­
ragable proof of truth ;
* and we may ask, when
■was this assent ever given with greater decision
than in favor of the existence of magic, or the sci­
ence of working miracles, by whatever name it is
designated, by whatever title we adorn it 1 For
thousands of years civilized nations, as well as the
most barbarous tribes, if we except a few savage
hordes, cherished, denounced, and endeavored to
protect themselves against the power which they
believed was granted to some men to change the
common course of nature, through the medium of
* Consemui omnium populorum, SfC.
Digitized by Google
122 ART OF THE JUGGLER NOT MAGIC.
Certain mysterious operations. We say the com-,
mon course of nature, because it is important to re­
mark that the doctrines of the ancients regarding
apparent miracles, and their generally admitted
opinions, differ materially from those which the
moderns of the West appear to have formed for
themselves; and according to which, the attempt
to explain a miracle is, in effect, to deny it. The
theory that a miracle bespeaks a subversion, or a
suspension of the laws of nature, may have been
first admitted by fear or astonishment, and after­
ward continued by ignorance and want of re­
flection ; but against this admission both reason
and skepticism are speedily armed. In this sense
there exists no miracle. Under our very eyes a
conjurer has apparently revived a man who has
been beheaded; and jElian relates that Esculapius
reunited the heart of a woman to her corpse, and
restored to her both life and health.
*
* jElian, De Nat. Animal., lib. ix., cap. 33.
t Fromann, Tract, de Fascin., &c., p. 635, 636. Rabelais, a
philosopher, who, under the mask of folly, has so many times ex*
alted reason, seems to have had in his view this imposture. He
displays to us Panurge completely curing one of his companions
in arms, who had had his head cut off in battle.—Pantagrud,
liv. it, chap. 30.
The Kurdes, or Ali-OuLakies, who worship Ali,
the son-in-law of Mohammed, as an incarnation of
the Deity, ascribe a similar miracle to him; and it
has been still more recently asserted that a noble ma­
gician possessed the secret of performing it.t Ad­
mitted among the spectators, a philosopher would
at first be suspicious of imposture. He would rec­
ollect how much the address of the mere juggler
may effect. A juggler very recently, indeed, ex­
hibited to the public the spectacle of apparently
beheading a man, as he lay upon the stage, in such
a manner as to produce very painful feelings in the
Digitized by Google
Ancient opinion of a miracle. 128
spectators.
* He displayed the severed head to
convince the skeptical, and even invited them to
touch it, to open the mouth, which shut again of
its own accord, and to examine the bleeding section
of the neck at the extremity of the trunk; he after­
ward withdrew a curtain, and almost immediately
the living man reappeared. Now let us suppose
the juggler to be above the suspicion of chicanery,
the skeptic might say: “ I presumed the thing to
be impossible, but it appears that I was wrong, if
xny senses are not spell-bound by some iuBurmount-
able illusion. I admit that the fact, if once estab
*
lished, becomes a valuable acquisition to science;
but before I can recognize a miracle in it, I must
have the demonstration that the thing could not oc­
cur except God himself should reverse the order of
his own fixed laws. At present your proof reaches
no further than what is afforded by my probably
deceived sight, and your skillfulness.
* ’
By presuming the existence of a thing on the
ground of its possibility, the ancients, inspired with
religious gratitude, did not require that the appa­
rent miracle which astonished them should be of a
description to subvert the order of nature; every
unexpected succor in urgent necessity was receiv­
ed by them as a direct benefit from the gods; all
that implied worth, prudence, or learning superior
to that of ordinary men, was ascribed by them to
an intimate participation in the divine essence, or,
at least, to a superhuman inspiration, of which the
superior being who displayed these gifts was the
first to boast. In ancient Greece the wonderful
exploits of great men were rewarded by gaining
for them the title of heroes, a term synonymous
with that of demigods; and also by conferring
upon the hero of divine honors.
* At Nancy, in 1829.
Digitized by UooQle
J24 ANCIENT OPINION OF A MIRACLE.
. If the remembrance of this ancient and universal
belief were preserved among us, we should censure
less severely Homer, and other poets of antiquity,
for the repeated intervention of the gods; the nar­
rative of the poet expresses, in the clearest manner,
the sentiment of the hero who, having been saved
from imminent peril, or crowned by a signal vic­
tory, imputes these advantages to the god who
deigns to act as his guardian and to be his guide.
Actuated by such a belief, which assimilates per­
fectly with our hypothesis regarding the origin of
civilization,
* the religious man does not perceive
any necessity for ascribing imposture to the mir­
acles cited in favor of the revelations of other sects;
he neither exposes himself to dangerous recrimina­
tions, nor does he listen to any retaliation with re­
gard to his own creed, or to arguments tending to
yreaken that human testimony on which is founded
our faith in all these extraordinary events which
we have not personally witnessed. The priests
and the magi of religions tbe most widely different,
unhesitatingly acknowledged the assumed miracles
performed by their adversaries. On several occa­
sions, Zoroaster entered the lists with necromancers
inimical to his new doctrines: he did not deny
their power, but he surpassed them in performing
wonders; and he asserted that while they were
executed by the power of the dews, emanations of
the principle of evil, he established the truth of his
assertions by maintaining that he surpassed them
only through the aid of the principle of good.t
* De la Civilization, liv. i., chap. 7. .
t Anquetil, Vie de Zoroaster, Zend-Avesta, tome i., partie %
pawim.
Digitized by UOOQl’
TRIALS OF MAGICAL SKILL. 125
CHAPTER VI.
Trial of Skill between the Thaumaturgists.—It was admitted that
the Victor derived his Science from the Deity; but it waa
founded on Natural Philosophy, the Proofs of which are de­
rived: 1st. From the Conduct of the Thaumaturgists.—2d.
From their own Assertions regarding Magic, that the Genii in­
voked by the Magicians sometimes signified the physical or
chemical Agents accessory to the Occult Science; sometime
*
the Men who cultivated that Science.—3d. The Magic of the
Chaldeans embraced all the Occult Sciences.
* In the present day, the Dalai-Lama punishes the priests of
his religion who deceive the people by swallowing knives or
vomiting flames.—Timkowski, Voyage a P6kin, tome i., p. 460.
Wherever divisions arose in the sacerdotal col­
leges, on account of interests involving power or
glory, then combats of skill, analogous to those that
constituted the triumphs of Zoroaster, were exhib­
ited ; the attendant consequences were the infusion
of greater energy and the addition of increased lus­
tre to the Occult Sciences. The multitude, at once
the dupes of credulity and the slaves of fear, will­
ingly revered as prodigies, mysterious omens, and
miracles, the unusual phenomena of nature; but
the thaumaturgist had a more difficult task, when
enlightened men were to be at the same time his
rivals and his judges. The marvelous was then in­
vestigated with critical severity. The fleeting appa­
rition was not admitted as sufficient proofof the mir­
acle, but a permanent effect was required. The
miracle Was to be displayed, not by such dexterity
as the ordinary necromancer could boast,
* but by
the most consummate skill. The prodigy was re­
quired to stand out in bold relief, and to display
unusual characters; and, above all, it was requisite
that the omen should have been predicted by the
Digitized by
190 HOW DECIDED BY THE ANCIENTS.
thaumaturgist, and that it should happen at tne pre­
cise moment indicated by his prophecy.
*
Victorious in the trial of skill, conducted in ac­
cordance with these laws, the thaumaturgist had no
difficulty in establishing bis claim to be considered
as the disciple and interpreter of the Divinity. In
short, that piety which referred to divine inspira
*
tion every token of virtue in the mind, or in the
deeds of man, naturally led to the particular study,
acquirement, and practice of the occult sciences.
The fruits of virtue, such as prudence, temperance,
and courage, assimilate in degree, and, even be­
tween their most distinct extremes, admit of a par­
allel sufficiently palpable to exclude in general the
necessity of imputing to them an extraneous origin;
it was not so with the results of science; always
surrounded by the marvelous, its connection or ref
*
erence to arts purely human was studiously con
*
cealed.
These considerations, if we regard them without
prejudice, would, I believe, absolve the Greek and
Homan authors from the censure of having too read­
ily admitted into their narrations pretended mira
*
cles only worthy of contempt. They not only be
*
lieved, but they felt an obligation imposed on them
to transmit to posterity those which their own T&-
ligion required them to hold in reverence, as weH
as those consecrated by the worship of other na­
tions. In performing this duty, and knowing, or
at least suspecting, the connection of miracles with
a mysterious knowledge emanating, as they believe
ed, from the gods, they, by their fidelity in detailing
such miracles, preserved the history of their faith
from oblivion.
Charlatanism, orjugglery, certainly intermingled
* Rabbi Meiraldabic, Semit. Fedai^ lib. i. Gaulm., ii. De Vi
*
to et Morte Mosit, Dota, p. 208, 209.
Digitized by Goo *
THE ANCIENT BELIEF IN MIRACLES SINCERE. 127
z '
with the operations of the thaumaturgists, as we
shall have occasion to prove. But the tricks of
legerdemain, sometimes truly astounding, that are
exhibited by modern impostors in our theaters and
public places, are not unfrequently founded on
chemical and physical facts connected with magnet­
ism, galvanism, electricity, and chemistry, although
file vulgar charlatan depends for the secret of these
deceptions merely on the possession of recipes,
which only teach him how to practice; but this
does not entitle us to deny that the principles,
when such recipes are derived, should be ranked
among the sciences.
And this is what we discover in the temples as
Soon as the first glimmerings of historical light en­
able us to penetrate their obscurity. It is impos­
sible to devote one’s self to researches connected
with the origin of the sciences without perceiving
that in the depth of these sanctuaries alone one vast
branch of ancient lore flourished, and that this one
constituted an all-important part of the mysteries
pf religion. All miracles which can not be referred
to adroitness or imposture were the fruits of this
secret science ; they were, in short, real experi­
ments in physics. The processes by which their
success was to be secured formed an essential part
of sacerdotal education. Who, it may be asked,
originally conceived and arranged these Scientific
formularies ? Was it not the philosophical guard­
ians of a code of doctrines recognized by their dis
*
oiples under the name of Magic, Theurgic Philos­
ophy,
* and the Transcendental Science 1
’ Why did Mohammed refuse to work miracles,
declaring that the Almighty had denied to him the
Jpower? We may reply, because the occult sci-
* Theurgy is defined “ the power of performing supernatural
acts by lawful means, as by prayer to the Deity.”—Kd.
Digitized by UooQle
128 WOkKS OF ART REFERRED TO MAGIC.
ence of the thaumaturgists was unknown to him.
*
Why, in our own times, did Swedenborg, surround­
ed by truly enlightened spectators, have recourse
to a similar subterfuge, and affirm that his revela­
tions being a sufficient miracle, those who refused
to credit them would not yield to the prodigies
which they demanded as proofs of their truth If
We may also reply, because he was aware that the
time for miracles was over. It is said mankind are
too enlightened to believe in them. Is not this, in
other terms, to say, that that which constitutes a
secret science, reserved exclusively for some priv­
ileged beings, has now stepped into the vast do­
main of general science, accessible to all inquiring
minds 1 Let us examine this opinion in its conse­
quences. There can be no hesitation in admitting
that four descriptions of prodigies narrated by the
ancients can not be rejected, and therefore that
they ought at once to be acknowledged as facts.
1st. Arts which come into common use may pass
for divination, or magic, as long as the secret of
displaying them is confined to a few individuals.
On Mount Larysium, in Laconia, the feast of
Bacchus was celebrated in the commencement of
spring, and ripe grapes were produced at this sea­
son to bear testimony to the power and beneficence
of the god.J The priests of Bacchus were proba­
bly acquainted with the use ofhot-houses and stoves.
Industrious men had carried the arts of workingr
in iron into the islands of Cyprus and of Rhodes ;
* This is too severe a censure on Mohammed, who, if we fully
concur in his condemnation as an impostor, can not be charged
with making his ignorance the reason for not extending his im­
postures. It is a charge for which the author has no authority.
Ed.
t Swedenborg, Vera Christ. Relat., p. 846, 850. De Calo et
Inferno Prcefatio. Abrtgb des Overages de Swedenborg, par
Daillant Latooche, 8vo, 1788, p. 37, 38, 293, 294.
t Pausanias, Laconia, cap. xxii.
Digitized by Go e
WORKS OF ART REFERRED TO MAGIC. 129
an ingenious allegory personified them under the
name of Telchines, Children of the Sun, the Father
of Fire, and of Minerva, the Goddess of the Arts.
*
Ignorance and fear added to the terror with which
those who first appeared in arms were regarded,
and they were looked upon as magicians, whose
very glance was to be guarded against.
Acquainted with the treatment of metals, the
Fins also figure, in the early poetry of Scandinavia,
as sorcerer dwarfs, dwelling in the depths of the
mountains. Two dwarfs, inhabiting the mountains
of Kailova, and skillful in forging and fabricating
arms, consented, on hard conditions, to initiate the
blacksmith Wailand into the secrets of their art, on
which account he acquired much fame in the legends
of the North for the excellence of the arms which
he furnished to the warrior.!
In the esteem of men who knew only how to
combat, the perfection of defensive armor and of­
fensive weapons was so important as to lead them
to refer the art which produced them to supernat­
ural agency. Enchanted arms, bucklers, cuirasses,
helmets, on which every dart was blunted, every
lance broken; swords which pierced and could dis­
sever any suit of armor, do not only belong to the
romances of Europe and of Asia, but they origina­
ted under the hammer of Vulcan, and their value
was recited in the songs of Virgil, in the immortal
verses of Homer, and also in the Sagas. Such arms
* The name Telchines was in reality derived from Telchinia,
the ancient name of the Island of Crete, whence the Telchines
originallyemigrated to Rhodes. They were skillful workmen, and
the inventors of many useful arts, and were also the first who
raised statues to the gods. Ovid (Metam., vii., 365) bestows upon
them the power of assuming various shapes, offascinating all an­
imals with their eyes, and of causing hail and rain to fall when
they pleased. Jupiter, envious of their power, destroyed them
by a deluge.—Ed.
t Depping, M&moires de la SociAtA des Antiquaires de France,
tome v., p. 223.
I. I
Digitized by Goo<
130 CONTESTS OF MAGICIANS.
were said to be fabricated by necromancers, or men
who succeeded in obtaining the secrets of those
wonder-workers.
2d. The works of magic were circumscribed with­
in the limits of science; and beyond these igno­
rance was forced to supplicate its aid. Indeed, the
biographer of Apollonius of Tyana ridicules the
senselessness of those who expected, through mag­
ic, to gain the crown in the combats of the circus,
or to insure success in their love, or in their com­
mercial speculations.
*
* Philostrat., Vit. Apollon., lib. vii., cap. 16.
t Saxo Grammaticus, Hist. Dan., lib. L
| The Hindoo origin of the Thousand and Ont Nights, main-
3d. In the trials of strength, when opposing in­
terests were to be settled between those who were
the guardians and depositaries of the occult sci­
ence, as it was feared that the limits of magical re­
source might be accidentally exposed to the pro­
fane and uninitiated, a tacit, formal compact exist­
ed among the thaumaturgists themselves, in the
observance of which the interests of all, even the
most exasperated rivals, were involved.
The Greek mythology did not admit one deity
to interfere with, or subvert the schemes or opera­
tions of another; and the same reciprocal safeguard
may be traced through most of the fairy tales which
have been borrowed from early tradition and hand­
ed down to us by our ancestors. At an epoch great­
ly antecedent to the first Odin, the heroic history of
the North speaks of the cruel fate of a female ma­
gician,f sentenced to a barbarous death by her whole
tribe, for having instructed a prince, whom she
loved, in the means of controverting the schemes
of a magician who was bent on his destruction. In
a collection of wonderful tales of undoubted Hin­
doo origin,^ we find a female magician and one of
Digitized by UooQle
CONTESTS OF MAGICIANS. 131
the genii, strongly opposed to each other in their
inclinations, yet found by a solemn treaty, restrain­
ing each from any contravention of their schemes,
or from injuring the person of the other party; but,
notwithstanding this agreement, they attempted to
conquer each other by other means; but, neither
consenting to yield, they ended by fighting outright,
throwing about jets of burning matter, which killed
and wounded several spectators, and finally put an
end to both combatants.
*
If, instead of beings endowed with pretended su­
pernatural powers, we substitute men like cur­
tained by Hammer and Langles, is denied by M. Silvestro de
Sacy, who ascribes the composition of this collection to a Syrian
Mussulman of no earlier era than four centuries ago (Afempir
read at the Acadlmie des Inscriptions et des Belles-Lettres, 31s
*
July, 1829). That four hundred years ago, a compiler may have
disseminated a collection of such of these tales as are known in
Arabia and in Syria, is possible: that he was a Mussulman, is
evident from the pains he has taken to introduce Mussulmans
throughout the whole, with a total disregard of time or ofcountry;
but it may still be asked, Is this writer the original author ? I
replyin the negative, because, 1st. Several of the narratives here
brought together may be found in the collections of the Hindoos
and of the Persians, which are of an earlier period than the sup­
posed date of this writer. 2d. Judaism and Christianity were
well known in Syria and in Arabia, and the disciples of both, but
especially those of Christianity, must have played some part in
tales invented within four hundred years, that is to say, nearly
two centuries after the last of those famous Holy Wars, in whicn
the standard of the Cross had more than once driven back the en­
signs of Islamism, and yet we find no notice of other adversaries
to the disciples of Monammed than magicians and evil genii.
3d. We retrace here the traditional existence in Asia of pigmies;
men who have their heads beneath their shoulders, and others
having the head of a dog; traditions which some veiy ancient
Greek authors had gathered from the East, but which had been
subsequently voted to oblivion as absurd fables. 4th. Their Hin­
doo origin is evident from the history ofthe Brahman Pad-Manaba,
a favorite of the god Vishnou (fourteenth Night). A Mussulman
could never have invented a fable so contrary to his own creed.
If the Syrian compiler introduced it without mutilation, it un­
doubtedly was admitted because the grounds of it were too fa­
miliar and too popular to risk any alteration. .
* MiUe ct Une Nuits, 4® Nuit, tome i., p. 318; 5
* Nuit, p.
390-322.
Digitized by
132 CONTESTS OF MAGICIANS.
selves, the process and the result would have proved
nearly the same. They only differed in one re­
spect, namely, in the blindness of their fury, at the
risk of betraying a secret which it was their inter­
est to preserve, they employed weapons prohibited
among magicians, and exhibited themselves to the
vulgar, mortally wounded by the same magical im­
plement which their prudence should have reserved
to terrify or to punish the uninitiated.
4th. In such struggles the triumph of a thauma-
turgist might possibly appear to his adversary less
decisive than it would to his partisans, particularly
when the pretended fhiracle had been one of his
own choosing, and one which he defied his rival to
imitate; his antagonist might, indeed, recover his
superiority by displaying, in his turn, a proof of his
power which should secure to him the victory.
Nothing is better adapted to confirm these ideas
than a glance at the manner in which the ancient
magicians worked. Their art does not appear to
have been the result of natural genius, nor assured­
ly of supernatural power, but of the knowledge of
secrets painfully acquired and with difficulty pre­
served. To work magically, therefore, to conjure
genii, or so to invoke the gods as to constrain
them to apparent obedience, required very exten­
sive preparations; but over the nature and oper­
ation of these the veil of mystery was thrown.
Plants and animals, collected in secret, were in va­
rious ways combined and subjected to the action
of fire, and scarcely one step was taken without the
assistance of some formulary, or the consultation
of books, the loss of which was almost equivalent
to the loss of all magic power. Such were the
sources of the power of the greater number of the
thaumaturgists, who were truly scholars of natural
philosophy, and who were forced continually to
Digitized by Google
SOURCES OF MAGICAL KNOWLEDGE. 133
seek in their sacred volumes the prescriptions, with­
out which they could neither properly work out
their charms nor display their delusions.
Traces of the existence of these books are found
among a people fallen, in the present age, into the
most lamentable barbarism, but whose traditions
are connected with a very ancient, and probably an
advanced state of civilization.
* The Baschkirs be­
lieve that the black books, the text of which, they
allege, originated in hell, give to their possessor,
provided he is capable of interpreting them, an
absolute empire over nature and demons. These
books, together with the power which they con­
ferred, generally descended by inheritance to the
individual among the pupils oftheir possessor whom
he judged most worthy to succeed him.f Sound
works on physics and on chemistry, as applied to
the arts, might replace, with advantage, the magic
books of the Baschkirs; but we are still not much
in the advance of the time, in which certain persons,
indifferent as to either the enlightenment or the ig­
norance of mankind, would have assumed that such
• works could only emanate from the principle of
evil. Let us now, however, consult the thauma-
turgists themselves on the nature of their art.
* The Baschkirs, like the Laplanders, the Bouraetes, the Os-
tiaks, and the Samoiedes, have, from time immemorial, made use
of hereditary family names. (E. Salverte, Essai sur les Norns
d’Homines, de Pewpies, et de Lieux, tome i., p. 143.)
t AnnaZen der Erd-, Volker-, und Staaten-Kunae.
t Phihstrat., Vit. Apollon., lib. i., cap. 2.
Apolloniusf denied that he was of the number of
the magicians; they are, says he, only the artisans
of miracles. They are often stranded in their at­
tempts ; but when they fail, they acknowledge that
they have neglected to employ such a substance, or
to burn such another. Inexpert charlatans, who
permit the mechanism of their miracles to be seen I
Digitized by UooQle
134 SOURCES OF MAGICAL KNOWLEDGE.
Apollonius himself boasted that his science was the
gift of God, the reward of his piety, his self-denial,
and his austerity; and in order to produce mirac­
ulous effects, he needed neither preparations nor
sacrifice. His presumption, which equalled that of
the Hindoo penitents, merely proves that he was
a more accomplished thaumaturgist, and one who
could boast of a higher knowledge of his art than
those whom he depreciated. What he says of the
ordinary thaumaturgist confirms our former as­
sumption, that the sect were mere laborers in nat­
ural philosophy.
Chseremon, a priest and sacred writer (scriba
sacer), taught the art of invoking the gods, so as to
force them to perform the miracles demanded of
them. Porphyry,
* in refuting Chseremon, affirms
that the gods themselves taught men the ceremo­
nies and the spells by which they might be con­
jured.! But this is merely the attack of one school
upon another—a strife of words. The beings who
obeyed the invocation were not those who dictated
the rites by which the invocation was to be express­
ed. lamblichus enables us to recognize a distinc­
tion between them.
In the attempt to explain the manner by which
a man may acquire an influence over the genii,
lamblichus arranges these deities in two divisions:
the one higher divinities, from whom nothing could
be obtained but through prayer and the practice of
virtue; these were the gods of Porphyry. The
other subordinate, corresponding to the obedient
* Porphyry was bora at Tyre, in the year 233. He became a
pupil of Origen, and afterward of Longinus, who named him Por­
phyrins, implying “ man in purple,” or adorned with a kingly robe.
His original name was Maech, which is the Syriac for km^. He
died at Rome, AJ). 304, toward the conclusion of Die reign of
Diodesian. He is chiefly celebrated for his writings against
Christianity.—Ed.
I Euseb., Prtejh Evang., lib. v., cap. 8-11.
Digitized by UooQle
SOURCES OF MAGICAL KNOWLEDGE. 135
deities of Chaeremon, and they are thus described
by the theurgist, “ spirits devoid of reason or dis­
cernment, and of intelligence, and only brought for­
ward for particular purposes, although gifted with
power in some measure greater than that which
man possesses; yet they are forced to exercise their
peculiar functions at his command, because he is
endowed with reason and discernment, of which
they are devoid, and which enable him to ascertain,
and to amalgamate the properties of various exist­
ences.”* Let us suppose that we are attending
a lecture on chemistry and natural philosophy.
" There exist,” the professor may say, “ substances
capable of producing extraordinary results, inca­
pable of being effected by man, when assisted only
by his natural faculties, such as eliciting sparks
from ice, or the production of ice in a heated at­
mosphere, effects which have been produced, al­
though the substances displaying them operate with­
out design and without discernment. Blind agents
in themselves, they become miraculous instruments
of power in the hands of the man who, by the de­
ductions of science, possesses the secret of skillfully
applying their properties, and making them sub­
servient to his purposes.”t The professor may thus
* lamblichus, De Mysteriie, cap. xxxi., Invocationee et Opera
Hominum adver&us Spiritus. “Est etiam aliud genus spirituum
. . . indiscretum et inconsideratum, quod unam numero potentiam
est sortitum . . . unde unum uni tantum operi addictum est.. . .
Jussa et imperia violenta diriguntur ad spiritus nec utentes pro­
prid ratione, nec judicii discretionisque principium possidentee.
Cum enim cogitatio nostra habeat ratiocinandi, naturam atque
discernendi qud res ratione se habet... spiritibus imperare so-
let, non utentibus ratione et ad unam tantum actionem determi
*
natis ... imperat, quianature nostra intellectualis praestantior est
quam inteUectu carens, et si illud in mundo latiorem habeat ac­
tionem.” .
t At the meeting of the British Association at Cambridge, in
June, 1845, Professor Butigny amused the ladies by producing
ice in a vessel at a glowing red heat. This was performed by
making a deep platina capsule red hot, and at the same moment
Digitized by UooQle
136 SOURCES OF MAGICAL KNOWLEDGE.
display with precision latent influences rendered
active in the service of chemistry and of philosophy;
and all that he can say of them has been said by
lamblichus touching the genii of the second order.
The professor may then continue: “ When an
ignorant person tries an experiment, without close­
ly following processes which are put down for him,
he will assuredly fail, if the employment of one only
of the substances prescribed by science is neglect­
ed.” If, for the words ignorant persons, experi­
ments, process, and substances, we substitute pro­
fane, religious observances, rites, divinities, or genii,
the professor will have spoken as if he had trans­
lated two passages from lamblichus on the course
to be followed in working miracles.
*
Among the genii obedient to magical power, we
are informed that some were to be conjured in the
Egyptian, some in the Persian language.! Is not
this a demonstration that the ceremonies were pre­
served in the formulary of the philosophers, which
each temple preserved in their sacred language, so
as to make them practical. The Egyptian priests
worked a miracle by a process of which the Per­
sian priests were ignorant, while the latter either
worked the same miracle by a different process, or
set up another miracle equally brilliant in opposi­
tion to it.
liquid sulphurous acid, which had been preserved in that state by
a freezing mixture, and some water, were poured into the vessel
The rapid evaporation of the sulphurous acid during its volatili­
zation when it entered into ebullition, a state which takes place
at the freezing point, produced such an intense degree of cold,
that a large lump of ice was immediately formed; and, being
thrown out of the red-hot vessel, was handed round to the com­
pany in the section. How powerful would have been the influ­
ence of such an experiment, if asserted to be a miracle, in a pa­
gan sanctuary.—Ed.
* “ Quando profani tractant sacra contra ritus, frustraiur
tut."—lamblich., De Mysteriis, cap. xxx. “ Uno prcctermisso
numine sine ritu communis ipsa religiojfinsm non habet.”—Ibid.,
cap. xxxiii. t Origen, Contr. Cels-, lib. i.
Digitized by Gooqlc
SOURCES OF MAGICAL KNOWLEDGE. 137
To the mind that revolts at the idea of exalting
physical agents into supernatural powers, let us ex­
hibit the divination based on the most simple oper­
ations of industry. What among the Romans, the
disciples of those Etruscans who derived their orig­
inal civilization from religion, and ascribed it to
their entire existence, were the gods to whom the
Flamen appealed, at the feast celebrated in honor of
Terra, the Earth, and the Goddess of Agriculture 1
We recognize them by their names : the first was
Vervator, implying the plowing of the fallow land;
the second, Separatory labor; the third, Impordtor,
the sowing of the seed; the fourth, Insitor, the op­
eration which covers the seed; the fifth, Obarator,
harmony; the sixth, Occator, the weeding with the
hoe; and the seventh, Sarritory the second weeding,
and so on.
* The priest only enumerated the op­
erations of agriculture, and superstition converted
them into divinities. The same superstition re­
garded as a supernatural being the man whose tal­
ents produced works above the ordinary capacity
of his fellow mortals.
The art of treating metals was deified under the
name of Vulcan, The Telchines, the earliest ar­
tificers in iron known among the Greeks, were at
first regarded as magicians, but subsequently look­
ed upon as demigods, genii, and malevolent de­
mons.! The Fifes (fairies, fays, or genii) were
* Servius in Virgil, Georgia., lib. i., vers. 21, et seq.; et Varro,
De Re Rust., lib. i., cap. 1. The names of the Other divinities
■were Subruncinator, Messor, Convector, Conditor, Promitor.
The improvement of the soil was also under a divinity named
Slerpiuinius or Stercilinius.
t Suidas, verbo Telchines. See the article on Telchines in the
Dictionnaires de la Fable de Noel et de Chompr6 et Millin. Men
who, attached to the worship of nature, or the Goddess of the
Earth (Cybele, Magna Mater, Ac.), introduced into many places
the art of working in metals, and were known in different coun­
tries under different names—Telchines, Curates, Idsean Dactyles,
Corybantes, Ac.; but all pertained to the same priesthood, and
Digitized by
138 SOURCES OF MAGICAL KNOWLEDGE.
famed in Scotland as excelling in art;
* and to a
similar belief we probably owe the proverbial ex-
transmitted their knowledge from generation to generation. It
is on this account that ancient writers sometimes confound them,
and at other times assert that some were the ancestors of others.
—Diod. Sic. Strabo. Pausanias.
* There is no part of the world, and no portion of die historyof
the human race, that is devoid of superstitious observances; and
the predilection for the wild, the wonderful, and the terrible may
be regarded as universal. Even in the present day, when science
and a rational theology have dissipated, in a great degree, these
illusions, the vestiges of them still remain, and impress sentiments
which, although they are endeavored to be concealed, yet are
strongly felt.
No subject would be more interesting than an inquiry into the
origin of the superstitions of uncivilised tribes, but it is of too
comprehensive a character to be entered upon in this place ; we
shall, therefore, content ourselves with tracing to their birth-place
a few of the most popular delusions in the olden times of our own
country. The Fayes and Fairies are evidently of Scandinavian
origin, although the name of Fairy is supposed to be derived from,
or rather a modification of, the Persian Peri, an imaginary benev­
olent being, whose province it was to guard men from the male­
dictions of evil spirits; but with more probability it may be re­
ferred to the Gothic Fagur, as the term Elves is from Alfa, the
general appellation for the whole tribe. If this derivation of the
name of Fairy be admitted, we may date the commencement of
the popular belief in British Fairies to the period of the Danish
conquest. They were supposed to be diminutive, aerial beings,
beautiful, lively, and beneficent in their intercourse with mortals,
*
inhabiting a region called Fairy Land, Alf-heinner; commonly
appearing on earth at intervals, when they left traces of then
visits, in beautiful green rings, where the dewy sward had been
trodden in their moonlight dances. The investigations of science
have traced these rings to a species of fungus, Agaricus oreadet;
but imagination still leads us. willingly, back to the traditional
appearances of these diminutive beings in the train oftheir queen,
and while, in the mind’s eye, we see her asleep, cradled on a bed
of violets, ever canopied
“ With sweet musk roses and with eglantine,”
we also behold her tiny followers dancing away the midnight
hours to the sound of the most enchanting music. In Scotland
the existence of Fairies was believed in the seventeenth centu­
ry ; and in some places in the Highlands the belief is not yet ex-
tinct.t No idea is attempted to be given of the situation of the
“ countree of Fairiebut the favorite haunts of its people on
earth are green hills, romantic glens, and inaccessible waterfalls.
♦ Remain
* of Kirk White, vol. i., p. 34.
t Sinclair’s Statistical Account of Scotland, vol. xiii., p 343
Digitized by C.ooQle
SOURCES OF MAGICAL KNOWLEDGE. 189
pression “ to work like fayes.” “ The gnomes/
*
say the Cabalists, ‘‘are people of small stature,
* Scott’s Minstrelsy of the Scottish Border, vol. ii., p. 206.
+ Cromek’s Remains of Nithsdale and Galloway Song, p. 308.
t Idem, p. ?30, el eeq.
At a linn, or waterfall, on the River Crichup, in Dumfriesshire, is
a cell or cave, called the Elf’s Kirk, where the Fairy people,
“the imaginary inhabitants of the linn, were supposed to hold
their meetings.”* So late as 1586, a woman named Alison Pear
*
son was tried, convicted, and burned for holding intercourse with
and visiting her majesty of Fairy Land. The indictment runs
thus: For banting and repairing with the gude neighbors, and
Queene of Elfland, thir divers years by-past, as she hadconfest;
and that she had friends in that court which were of her own blude,
who had gude acquaintance of the GLueene of Elfland; and that
she was seven years ill-handled in the court of Elfland.” Can a
stronger proof oe adduced of the awful abuse of power into
which mortals may be betrayed when the mind is enfeebled by
credulity and superstition ?
“ One of the tricks of the Scottish Elves, for they were not al
*
ways beneficent, was stealing new-born infants, and replacing
them with monsters. These thefts were committed in order to
enable them to pay tithe to the devil with the stolen child instead
of one of their own brood, a tribute which they were obliged to
pay every seventh year. A beautiful child, of Caerlaveroc, in
Nuhsdale, was thus changed on the second day of its birth, and
its place supplied by a hideous Elf. The servant to whom the
channeling was intrusted in the absence of her mistress, howev
*
er, discovered the trick. She could not perform her other work,
owing to the fretfulness of the changeling; but the Elf, hearing
her complain, started up and performed all her work, and, on her
mistress’s approach, returned to the cradle. She told her mistress
her discovery, and at the same time said, ‘ I’ll wirk a pirn for the
wee deil.’ With this intention she barred every outlet in the
room, and, when the embers were glowing, undressed the Elf,
and threw it upon the fire. It uttered tne wildest and most
piercing yells, and in a moment the Fairies were heard moaning,
and rattling at the window-boards and the door. * In the name
o' God bring back the bairn 1’ cried the servant: the window flew
up; the earthly child was laid unharmed on the mother's lap,
while its grisly substitute flew up the chimney with a loud
laugh.”t
Another description of Scottish Elves was the Brownies; a
race of beings both diminutive and gigantic, benevolent and knav­
ish. The former was the most common, and are described by
Mr. Cromekt as “small of stature, with short, curly hair, with
brown, matted locks, and clad in a brown mantle which reached
to the knee, with a hood of the same color.” They were fond of
sweet cream, honey, and other dainties, portions of all of which
Were generally left for them, as if by accident, in some part of
Digitized by UooQle
140 SOURCES OF MAGICAL KNOWLEDGE.
guardians of hidden treasures, of mines, and of
precious stones; they are an ingenious race, friend-
the dwelling; the Brownies being forbidden by the higher pow­
ers to accept of wages or bribes. They, nevertheless, revenged
themselves when intentionally neglected, and they could
“ Bootless make the breathless housewife chum,
And sometimes make the drink to bear no barm.”
This Brownie was the same kind of sprite as the goblin-groom
of the English, “ who,” says Dr. Hibbert, “ was an inmate ofmany
houses so late as the seventeenth century ;”* and also the same
as a sprite named Putscet, whom the Samogitee, a people on the
shores of the Baltic, who remained idolaters in the fifteenth cen­
tury, invoked to live with them, and for whom, according to Mr.
Douce,t a table, covered with bread, butter, cheese, and ale, was
placed every night in the barn, and which, we may venture to
add, was regularly cleared before morning. The Northern nations
regarded these sprites as the souls of men of libertine habits,
doomed to wander on the earth, and to labor for mankind for a
certain time, as a punishment of their crimes.} In Orkney and
Shetland the belief in such sprites continued even in the eight­
eenth century. “ A domestic spirit of this kind,” says Dr. Hib­
bert, “ was the inmate of the house of Ollaberry about a century
ago.”
In Shetland we find numerous traditions of the Duergar, or
Scandinavian dwarfs, under the name of Trows. They are stated
to be malevolent beings, partaking of the nature of men in having
material bodies, and of the nature of spirits in the power ofmak­
ing themselves invisible. Besides the name Trows, they are also
called, familiarly, gudefolk, and are still believed to exist. Tbev
live on beef and mutton, and drink milk like mortals ; are much
addicted to music and dancing; and are great quacks, compound­
ing many salves, and performing many special miraculous cures.
Like the English Faines, they are also addicted to the stealing
of children, and leaving their own unholy progeny in their places.
“ While around the thoughtless matrons sleep,
Soft o’er the floor the treacherous fairies creep,
And far away the smiling infant bear:
How starts the nurse when, for the lovely child,
She sees at dawn a gaping idiot stare.”$
It is melancholy to reflect that these superstitions still exist in
any portion of the British Empire. That they were not expelled
when Christianity was introduced into Shetland, is attributed by
Dr. Hibbert to their being “ conveniently subservient to the office
of exorcism, which constituted a lucrative part of the emoluments
of the inferior Catholic clergy with which Orkney and Shetland
* Hibbert’s Description of the Shetland Islands, p. 467.
+ Illustrations of Shakspeare. | Olaus Magnus.
§ Erskine’s additions to Collins’s Ode on the Superstitions of the High­
lands.
Digitized by Google
SOURCES OF MAGICAL KNOWLEDGE. 141
- ly to mankind, and providing the children of the
wise with all the money they require.”* Credulity
peopled the mines in several countries of, Europe
with genii; they were known under the appear­
ance of small, but robust, brown men, always pre­
pared to punish the indiscretion ofthe profane per­
son that intruded on their labors. All that has been
said of these genii, or gnomes, might hold good of
the miners themselves, at a time when their art,
pursued in obscurity, was exclusively destined to
increase the riches and maintain the power of the
enlightened classes. But the veil ofallegory, which
graced the tales! of the East, is now rent, and the
laborers in the iron mines are no longer the genii
ofthese subterranean workshops. Sensitive as they
are described to have been to the kindness of prin­
ces, who instituted festivals in their honor, they no
longer hasten to their aid when their necessities
are great, nor can they now be saved by their grate­
ful intervention.
We may sometimes trace the means by which
such metamorphoses were accomplished.^ Aga-
mede, in Homer, implies a woman devoted to the
good of others, and intimately acquainted with the
properties of all medicinal herbs. Orpheus, a wise
emissary of the gods,§ who, by the charms of met­
rical verse, and the harmony of language, drew
around him the rude people whom he came to civ­
* ilize, as well as the wild beasts of the forest|| The
were at one time overrun.”* The whole history of these imagin­
ary beings is, indeed, a melancholy picture of human reason de­
graded to a state of the most abject slavery beneath the tyranny
of credulity and superstition.—Ed.
* Revue Encyclop6digue, tome xxxi., p. 714. Le Comte de
Cabalis, ou Enfretiens sur les Sciences Secretes, second entretien,
p. 48, 49. t Thousand and One Nights.
t Homer, Odyss., lib. iv., v. 226. Iliad, lib. xi., v. 737-839.
j Horat., De Art. Poet., v. 390-393. .
II Pausanias asserts that he was deeply versed in magic. Many,
* Hibbert’s Scotland, p 451.
4
Digitized by
142 SOURCES OF MAGICAL KNOWLEDGE.
historians quoted by Diodorus represent the mys­
terious arts of Circe and Medea as purely natural,
*
especially where their knowledge rested on the ef­
ficacy of poisons and their antidotes ; but mytholo­
gy has, nevertheless, preserved the reputation of
Ates’s daughter as an invincible magician. The
poets who succeeded Homer represent Orpheus
as being versed in magic ;t and Theocritus describes
Agamede as the rival of Circe and Medeaf in the
magical arts.
The Egyptian priests, who ranked next in order
to the sovereign pontiff, are called magicians in the
ordinary translations of Exodus, while their arts
are styled enchantments. Mr. Drummond,§ an
archaeologist, who has made deep researches into
the language and history of the Hebrews, consid­
ers these interpretations as incorrect: according to
him, the text implies secret, not magical working,
and the title of the priests, chartomi, derived from
a word which signifies to engrave hieroglyphics,
expresses nothing further than the knowledge they
possessed of hieroglyphics in general.
Who, we may inquire, were the prophets con­
sulted by Pythagoras at Sidon, and from whom he
received sacred instructions 1 They were the de­
scendants of Mochus,|| the physiologist, a sage deep­
ly versed in the phenomena of nature, and the in­
heritors of the knowledge of his science. If Justin
does not scruple to admit the reality of the greater
among whom Aristotle is placed by Cicero, doubted altogether the
existence of Orpheus ; but there are many reasons for believing
that such a person existed, without crediting the absurd legends
interwoven with the traditions concerning him.—Ed.
* Diod. Sic., lib. ii., cap. 1, 6.
+ Euripid., Iphigen. in Aulid., v. 11, 12. Cyclop., v. 642.
t Theocrit., idyU., ii., v. 15, 16.
$ Mr, Drummond, Memoir on the Antiquity ofthe Zodiacs <f
Etneh and Dendera, 8vo, London, 1823, p. 19, 21.
U He was a native of Sidon, and is regarded as the founder of
the philosophy of anatomy.—Ed.
by CjOO^Ie
SOURCES OF MAGICAL KNOWLEDGE. 143
proportion of the miracles ascribed to Apollonius
of Tyana, he could have observed in them only daz­
zling proofs of the noble science of the thaumatur-
gists.
*
In conclusion, the learned Moses Maimonidesf
has demonstrated that the ground-work ofChaldean
magic lay substantially in an extensive acquaint­
ance with the resources of the animal, vegetable,
and mineral kingdoms. One object of such knowl­
edge was to acquire the power of indicating the
propitious time when the magical results might be
expected, that is to say, the moment in which the
season, the temperature, and the state ofthe atmos­
phere gave a reasonable hope of success in work­
ing by means of physical and chemical agents, or
which aided the learned observer in predicting nat­
ural phenomena that could not be foreseen by the
multitude. Introduced into the sanctuary of the
occult science, the mystery of magic vanishes ; we
see in it only the school where the various branch­
es of natural science were taught, and we admit in
their literal sense all tbe assertions of mythology
and of history regarding men and women invested
by the talented founders with the possession of their
secret, and who not unfrequently became superior
to their masters. To this end it was sufficient, af­
ter having submitted to trials imposed with a view
of insuring discretion, that the pupil should give
himself up to the zealous study of the secret sci­
ence, and his perseverance and capacity only could
enable him to extend its limits, the advantages of
which he afterward reserved to himself, or partially
communicated to the objects of his particular re­
gard.
* S. Justin, Quest. et Repond, ad Orthodox., quest. 24.
t Moses Maimonides, More Nevochim., lib. iii., cap. 37.
Digitized by UooQle
144 AIM OF ANCIENT MAGIC.
CHAPTER VII.
Errors mingled with the positive Truths of Science.—These have
their Origin sometimes in deliberate Imposture, sometimes in
the Mystery in which the Occult Science is involved.—Impos­
tures exaggerated.—Pretension of the Thaumaturgists.—Char­
latanism ; Jugglery ; Tricks ofLegerdemain more or less palpa­
ble ; Chance, and the Facility with which its Results may be
controlled.—Oracles conjoined with Equivocation and Impos­
ture, to insure their Fulfillment by natural Means, such as Ven­
triloquism, Ac. -, and by, finally, exact, but very simple Obser­
vations.
Had the thaumaturgists cultivated science with
the noble ambition of becoming themselves enlight­
ened, and of enlightening their fellow-creatures, we
should have only to look into their works for the
vestiges of doctrines, no doubt incomplete, but pure
and free from any base alloy. It is not so. Their
whole aim was to gain power, veneration^ and an
obedience that knew no bounds; hence, every thing
that favored this end was deemed legitimate; mere
sleight of hand, fraud, and imposture were resorted
to, as well as the practice of the most elevated sci­
ence.
After having conquered, it was necessary to in­
sure the possession of the scepter, and it was deem­
ed essential, for this purpose, to exhibit every where
the semblance of supernatural power, and to con­
ceal the instrumentality of man, even when the dis­
play of this empire of genius over nature would
have redounded to his glory. An inviolable secre­
cy enveloped the principles of the science; a par­
ticular . language, figurative expressions, emblems,
and allegories, threw a veil over even its minor de­
tails. The desire to solve these sacred enigmas
gave rise, among the profane, to a thousand extrav­
agant conjectures, the dissemination of which, in­
Digitized by Google
AIM OF ANCIENT MAGIC. 145
stead of being checked, was favored by the thau-
maturgists. They regarded them as so many guar­
antees of the impenetrability of their secrets, and
we shall convince our readers that the absurd opin­
ions originating from this source were not the only
evils which this conduct entailed upon the human
mind.
We shall consider in succession these two sour­
ces of error, and demonstrate that their consequen­
ces form a part of the history of civilization as well
as that of magic.
The present operates less forcibly on the human
mind than the future. The former
* positive and
limited in its nature, confines our belief to that
which is real; the latter, vague and uncertain, leaves
it open to the unrestrained dreams of fear, of hope,
and of imagination. The thaumaturgist, therefore,
could easily promise, and inspire a belief of the
fulfillment of wonders, which he had no hope of
realizing.
Nothing can be more absurd than the details con­
nected with the renewal of the youth of jEson,
* by
the enchantments of Medea; yet, at an early peri­
od, the Greeks, the Arabs, ana even the Hebrews,
believed in the possibility of this phenomenon.
Credulity, in assigning no limits to the power of
the thaumaturgists, forced them occasionally to re­
fuse, without compromising themselves, to perform
impossible miracles. A Cicilian invoked JEscula-
pius in his temple in the expectation that by rich
presents, pompous sacrifices, and magnificent prom­
ises, he might move the god to restore an eye which
* ASson was the father of Jason, the husband ofMedea. Owing
to his age and infirmities, he was unable to assist at the rejoicing
for the victory of the Argonauts; but Medea, says the tradition,
at the request of his son, restored him to the vigor and sprightli
*
ness of youth, by drawing all the blood from his veins, and filling
them again with the juices of certain herbs.—Ed.
K
Digitized by
146 DECEPTIONS OF THAUMATJJRGISTS.
he had lost. He was unsuccessful, because, says
Apollonius of Tyana, who was well acquainted
with the subterfuges which were commonly resort­
ed to in the temples, he was unworthy of the favor
he besought, and the loss of bis eye was the just
punishment of an incestuous adulterer.
*
* Philostrat., Vif. Apollon., lib. i., cap. 7.
t Moses Maimonides, More Nevochim., lib. iii., cap. 37.
+ 1 Kings, chap, xviii., vers. 28. " And they cried aloud, and
cut themselves alter their manner with knives and lances, till
the blood gushed out upon them.”
$ Lucan, Pharsal., lib. vi., vers. 745. Stat., Thebaid, lib. iv,
vers. 156.
Even when the required miracle did not surpass
the boundaries of science, it was still necessary, in
performing it, so to occupy the attention of the
spectator, that his observation might be withdrawn
from the mechanism of the operation, or from the
embarrassment which the thaumaturgist experi­
enced when the result was retarded. This species
of artifice, so familiar to modern jugglers, was no
less so to the magicians of old. What the former
obtains by address, or ingenious raillery, the latter
insured by the aid of cabalistic rites, well adapted
to inspire reverence and awe. The third part of
the magic of the Chaldeans belonged entirely to that
description of charlatanism which consists in the
use of gestures, postures, and mysterious speeches
as by-play, and which formed an accompaniment
to the proceedings of the thaumaturgist well calcu­
lated to mislead.? The priests of Baal, in their un­
equal emulation with the prophet Elijah, made in­
cisions in their bodies, which were, perhaps, more
visible than deep.{ The theurgists of Greece and
of Italy threatened those genii who were to slow
in obeying them, that they would invoke them by
a name which they dreaded.§ Whatever were the
means, the aim was to gain time, and to distract
Digitized by Google
DECEPTIONS OF THAUMATUBGIST8. 147
attention; for, either penetrated with compassion
or filled with awe, the, spectators were thus indu­
ced to regard with less distrust the practices neces­
sary for the consummation of the pretended mir­
acle.
But we have already observed that similar diffi­
culties were confined to the public trials of skill
among the Thaumaturgists : on every other occa­
sion the credulity was in advance of the miracle.
How many tales have we, for example, 6f the
marks of blood, preserved for centuries, to bear
testimony to a crime, or a remarkstole judgment 1
It is related, by some travelers, who, in 1815, vis­
ited the room in which David Rizzio was stabbed,
that the guide, in pointing to the stains of his blood,
took particular care to inform them the boards
were stained anew every year.
* At Blois, like­
wise, during the annual fair, the warder of the cas­
tle causes blood to be sprinkled on the floor of the
room where the Duke of Guise was murdered;
and this is exhibited to the curious as the blood
of this martyr of the League. It is scarcely neces­
sary to say that the histories of all such relics are
alike.
The head of a statue, struck by lighting, fell
into the bed of the Tiber; the augurs indicated the
spot where it might be found, and the event con­
firmed their predictions.! Without doubt, they
had previously taken infallible measures to ascer­
tain the fact; and had pursued the same measures,
which, at various periods, in other countries, have
♦ Voyage inedit en Angleterre en 1815 et 1816. Bibliotheque Uni-
vertelle, Litteratwe, tome vii., p. 363. The murder of Rizzio, who
was secretary to Mary, Queen of Scots, was committed by Lord
Ruthven and his accomplices, at the door of the private apart­
ment or cabinet of the queen, in Holyrood House, on the 9th of
March, 1566. The blood stains, renewed as described in the text,
are displayed to every visitor of that palace.—Ed.
t Cicer. De Divinat. lib. i., § 10.
Digitized by GooqIc
148 DECEPTIONS OF THAUMATURGISTS.
discovered to us so many holy and curious images,
in grottoes, in forests, and in the channels of rivers.
*
In short, we might refer to what happened a very
short time since, when a rabbit, a dog, and two
oxen revealed to the adoration of the Portuguese
a Madonna, to whom soon afterward solemn thanks
were offered up for the destruction of men, who
would have rescued the people from the bondage
of ignorance and of fanaticism. In 1822, an at­
tempt to unveil imposture could not be made but
at the risk of life.t
At Temersa, a virgin was annually sacrificed to
the manes of Lybas. Euthymus, the wrestler, de­
sirous of putting an end to this barbarity, had the
courage to challenge the spectral Lybas; who pre­
sented himself, black, horrible, and clothed with
the skin of a wolf. The intrepid wrestler, how­
ever, overcame the specter, who in his rage at
being defeated threw himself into the sea.J There
is little doubt, that a priest, disguised as a satyr,
* Swinbum (Travels in the Two Sicilies, vol. i., p. 1991 sup­
poses, that during the invasions of the Saracens into Italy, the
Christian fugitives frequently concealed the objects of their devo­
tion in almost inaccessible places, where, after a certain lapse of
time, they were accidentally discovered. But in eveiy part of
Christian Europe, in countries never subject to the invasions ofthe
Mussulman, in dark ages, crucifixes, statues, and images have
been found which have never failed, subsequently, to work mira­
cles. Let us not impute to chance, too often repeated, that which
results from the machinations of a subtile and persevering policy;
and let us remember that other religions have enjoined on their
disciples the worship of newly discovered relics. Thus we are
told, that at Patras, adoration was offered to a statue of Venus,
which had been recovered from the sea by some fishermen in the
act of dragging their nets. (Pausanias, Achaic. c. 21.) The fish­
ermen of Methymna also drew to land a head sculptured from the
wood of the olive-tree; the oracle commanded the Methymneans
to worship this head under the name of Bacchus Cephallenianus
(Pausanias, Photic, cap. 19).
t Mrs. Marianna Baillie, A Sketch of the Manners and Customs
of Portugal, <£c., London, 1824.—Nouvelles Annales des Voyages,
tome xxx., p. 405.
t Pausanias, Eliac. lib. ii., cap. vi.
Digitized by UooQle
DECEPTIONS OF THAUMATURG1STS. 149
was the actor in this scene, and that he was un­
able to survive his defeat. We are told that the
conqueror also soon afterward disappeared, and
the manner of his death remained a profound se­
cret. The colleagues of the specter were probably
better informed on this point than the public.
Sinan Raschid-Eddin,
* chief of the Bathenians
or Ishmaelites of Syria, concealed one of his pupils
in a cavity, permitting the head only to appear,
which, being surrounded by a disk of bronze,
having the appearance of a basin filled with blood,
seemed to be the head of a man recently decapi­
tated.
Uncovering it before his disciples, he commanded
the deceased to relate what he had experienced
since he ceased to live. The well trained inter­
locutor delivered, according to previous instruc­
tion, a brilliant account of the joys of heaven, de­
claring, at the same time, that he would rather
continue to experience them, than be again re­
called to life; and dictated, as the only security
for their future enjoyment, an implicit obedience
to the will and decrees of Sinan Raschid-Eddin.
This scene redoubled the enthusiasm, the devo­
tion, and the fanaticism of the audience. After
their departure, Sinan put his accomplice to death,
in order to secure the secret of his miracle.
But for what purpose, it may be asked, do we
thus multiply instances of fraud, so palpable, that
the most adroit or subtile scarcely deserves the
name of jugglery ? I reply, that if the art of im­
posing on the senses, in spite of incredulity and a
scrutinizing observation, has been made subservient
to the interest, the cupidity, or the policy of men
who trade in the credulity of their fellow-creatures,
* Minet de VOrient, tome iv., p. 377. A fragment translated
from original authors, by M. Rammer, who died in 1192.
Digitized by UooQle
150 DECEPTIONS OF THAUMATURGISTS.
the ait of the juggler is not alien to our subject.
That it has been thus instrumental, is proved by
its existence in all ages, with every refinement that
could possibly aid or second it, by inspiring awe,
or commanding astonishment. Thus, it has always
flourished in Hindostan ; and to all the other char­
acteristics which attest the Hindoo origin of the
Bohemian Gipsys (Zingari), may be added their
perfection in tricks of every kind.
*
* The term Zingari was one of the many appellations by
which these extraordinary wanderers are known. In Holland,
they were called Heydens; in Hungary, Pharachites; in Spain
and Portugal, Gitanos; in Germany, Tzianys; and in Turkey,
Tschingenes. The original country of these wanderers is still
undetermined, although the similarity of their language with
Sanscrit gives a coloring of probability to the opinion that they
came originally from Hindostan. My friend, Major Moor, says
that he showed two Gipsy women, at different times, a knife,
and asked what they called it. The reply was, w Chury
exactly as half the inhabitants of the great Indian range would
have answered—from Indus to the Brahmaputra.—Oriental Frag­
ments, p. 351.—Ed.
f Nouoelles Annates des Voyages, tome xxxv., p. 263.
That it has been so subservient in all countries,
we may infer from the fact, that the apparent mira­
cles with which it astounds the unenlightened, have
held, universally, a prominent place in the works
of pretenders to supernatural influence. The ex­
amples which we shall hereafter bring under con­
sideration will afford sufficient proof of this being
the case among civilized people; but at present
we shall confine our attention to those magicians,
who, in the center of a half-savage horde, united
the functions of priests, magistrates, and physicians.
These magicians among the Osages owed their
influence principally to the extraordinary nature
of their deceptions. Some of them plunged large
knives into their throats, and the blood flowing
profusely left no doubt of the apparent reality of
the wounds.t Can we, therefore, wonder that
Digitized by C.ooQle
DECEPTIONS OF THAUMATURGISTS. 151
among the aborigines of America, the utmost re­
spect is inspired for the man whose power can
prevent the smallest trace of so frightful a wound.
European conjurers will go through the same pro­
cess for our amusement; and persons who do not
desire to pass for jugglers have carried on similar
deceptions, though with a different intention. It is
attested by a priest, who witnessed the fact, that in
Italy penitents have appeared to inflict upon them­
selves, with scourges of iron, the most cruel flagel­
lations, without in reality suffering any injury.
*
♦ Edinburgh Review, vol. Ixxxii., P- 351- • —'
In the fifteenth century, at the solemnization
of the excommunication of the Hussites, in the
churches of Bohemia, the lighted tapers were spon­
taneously extinguished at the precise moment in
which the priest concluded the ceremony of ex­
communication ; and this deception was regarded
by the awe-struck congregation, as a clear mani­
festation of divine power.!
To expose the manner in which sacerdotal policy
can render an art, in appearance futile, serviceable
* Le P. Labat, Voyages dEspagne el d'Italie, tome vii., pp.
31, 32.
t Joachimi Camerarii, De Ecclesiis fratrum in Bohemia et Mo­
ravia, p. 71.—To the above instance of credulity we may add
the following:—“ On the summit of the Ochsenkopf, in the
Fichtel Gebirge, immediately opposite to the church-tower of
Bischofsgrun, is supposed to be seated a Geister-Kirche fa
church for supernatural beings), adorned with incalculable
wealth. The entrance to it is through the fissure of a rock,
which, it is said, begins to open when the church-bell at Bisch­
ofsgrun rings; it is wide open when the priest begins to read
the Gospel of the day, and it closes with a crash as soon as he
has finished. Although this statement might be easily refuted,
yet, none dare attempt the refutation ; and the report is current
that several persons now living at Bischofsgrun have entered
the temple, and have taken away some of the treasures ; but
they would scarcely be safe if they were to talk of it.”* Such
is the ignorance, superstition, and credulity of the population of
Fichtel Gebirge.—Eo.
Digitized by C.ooQle
152 DECEPTIONS OF THAUMATURGISTS.
to its own purpose, we have only to select a few
examples. In the judicial trial by cold water,
every thing depended on the mahner of binding
the accused: the ligatures might be arranged, so
as to cause him either to sink or to swim, accord­
ing to their specific gravity, in comparison with
that of the water. The iron collar of Saint San6,
in Bretagne, was used as an ordeal: in cases of
supposed peijury it infallibly strangled the guilty.
*
The priest who applied the collar was master of
the secret, and consequently the result lay in his
hands. The lodhan-Moran, a collar, worn at the
commencement of our era, by the Governor of
Iceland, was, if we may believe the traditions of
the island, no less formidable. Placed on the neck
of a deceitful or refractory person, it was drawn so
close, that the power of respiration was almost
extinct, and any attempt to reopen it, before a true
confession was obtained, invariably failed.! In
public market-places, it is not uncommon to see
the scales of a balance, at the command of a jug­
gler, alternately ascending and descending. This
trick may be sport in Europe, but in Hindostan,
it places the life of an accused person in the power
of the priests, who employ it as an ordeal. They
declare, that if guilty, the crime will manifest itself,
by adding perceptibly to the previously ascertained
weight of his body. After some ceremonies, he is
weighed with care; the act of accusation being
then attached to his head, he is weighed again.
If he be lighter than at first, his innocence is ad­
mitted ; if heavier, or if the balance breaks, the
* Cambry, Voyage dam le departement du Finistere, tome i., p.
173.
t G. Higgins, Celtic Druids, Introduction, p. Ixix. The lodhan-
Moran was also intended to strangle the judge who gave an
unjust judgment, but it is doubtful whether this miracle was
ever displayed.
Digitized by Go ole
DECEPTIONS OF THAUMATURGISTS. 153
crime is proved. Should the equilibrium remain,
the trial must recommence, and then, the sacred
books declare, there will certainly be a difference
in weight.
* When the result of an apparent mira­
cle is thus confidently predicted, one may easily
conjecture the method by which it has been worked.
An example of another description may be tak­
en from a people, we should scarcely suspect of
such refinement of subtilty. An English traveler,
the first white man who visited the tribe of the
3oulimas, near the sources of the Dialliba, de­
scribes the following curious scene : A body of
picked soldiers fired upon their chief, who defend­
ed himself with nothing but his talismans; and
although their muskets were charged, yet they all
missed fire; immediately afterward, without any
particular preparations, the soldiers veered round,
and pointing their muskets in another direction,
they all went off. These men must, therefore, have
had the address to open and cover at will the prim­
ing of the muskets,f but in some manner which is
carefully concealed; and the design was evidently
to persuade the people, that they have nothing to
fear from the arms of the enemy, so long as they
are furnished with amulets consecrated by the
priesthood.
From an earlier time than might at first be be­
lieved, men have existed in Europe who required
only audacity or a dominant interest, to induce
them to set up their claims to supernatural power.f
* Recherches Asiatiques, tome i., p. 472.
t Laing’s Travels among Timanni, the Kawarikos, the Souli-
mas, <£c. .
t Fromann acknowledges that many jugglers (cauculatores aut
saccularii) have been taken for magicians. (Tract, de Fascin.,
p. 771 et seq.) He notices also, as partaking of the nature of
sorcery, the wejl known tricks, of breaking a glass, cutting a
gold chain or a plate into many pieces, and afterward exhibiting
them as perfect and entire as they were before.—Ibid, p. 583.
Digitized by UooQle
154 BELIEF IN FATE.
Now, if we suppose this desideratum supplied, and.
instead of this being employed for the amusement
of a few idle spectators, it is directed to ends less
futile, it would command at once the veneration of
those whose ridicule alone it now excites.
This deduction is not forced. In our own days
a juggler called Comus (and the secret was solely
his) could announce privately to any one, the card
of which another was thinking; and this when
there was no possibility of connivance. Witness­
es of this fact are still in existence. In England,
also, he repeatedly performed the same trick, be­
fore numerous spectators, who, having large bets
depending on the result, could not be suspected of
collusion. The clear-sighted Bacon bears witness
to the performance of the same trick, at a period
when the performer, by giving such a proof of his
skill, incurred the risk of being led to the stake,
prepared for wizards and the punishment of witch- -
craft. The juggler, said he, “ whispered in the ear
of one of the spectators, that such a person will
think of such a card.”* . The philosopher adds that
the trick might be ascribed to connivance, which,
however, from his own observation, he had no rea­
son for suspecting.
* “ He did first whisper the man in the eare, that such a man
should think of such a card.”—Bacon, Sylva Sylvarum, Century
If men so talented were anxious to signalize
themselves by working apparent miracles, in the
midst of an ill informed population, would they
find their object impossible? If they are asked,
for example, to tell a fortune, Fate will undoubtedly
become the interpreter of the inquirer’s wishes;
and by this rule may be measured the extent of
their power. Time out of mind, an important part
has been played by Fate, in the greatest as well as
Digitized by UooQle
BELIEF IN FATE. 155
in the most trivial events of life, even where fraud
was not suspected. How often, distrustful of their
own prudence, or unable to reduce different opin­
ions to harmony, have men referred to the arbitra­
tion of Fate! The early Christian church had re­
course to this appeal, in order to decide whether
Joseph or Matthias should succeed the traitor Ju­
das Iscariot in the apostleship; and Origen
* com­
mends the apostles for this act of humility, by which
they submitted their own judgment to the decision
of Heaven, in a choice which they might have
made for themselves.!
, This idea has appeared sufficiently plausible, to
induce men otherwise enlightened to push it to an
extravagant length. Origen did not scruple to
advance the opinion that the angels in heaven}
decide by lot, regarding the particular nation or
province over which each shall watch; or to what
individuals they shall act as guardians. A Protes-
* This remarkable man was bom in Egypt, a.d. 184; and,
when he was seventeen years of age, his father Leonidas having
suffered martyrdom, he was with difficulty prevented from offer­
ing himself as a martyr. At forty years of age, he had acquired
so much celebrity by his eloquence and preaching that it excited
the jealousy of his cotemporaries, who persecuted him and ob­
tained his expulsion from the office of a presbyter; but his
opinion and advice were, nevertheless, eagerly sought after. He
successfully answered the objections urged against Christianity
liy Celsus, a philosopher who lived in the reigns of Hadrian and
the Antonines; but some years afterward, during the Dorian
persecution, he was imprisoned; and suffered so severely from
the torture, that soon after his release from confinement, he died
a.d. 253, in his seventieth. year. The talents, learning, and
eloquence of Origen were, admitted both by Christians and
pagans ; and his piety was equal to his learning. The writings
of Origen, however, led to violent controversies in the Church,
during the fourth century; and although he settled many dis­
puted points in Scripture, yet he also introduced some dangerous
interpretations of them.—Ed.
+ Act Apost. chap, i., v. 24 et seq. “ And they gave forth their
lots, and the lot fell upon. Matthias, and he was numbered with
the eleven apostles.”—Origen, Homil. xxiii. in libr. Jes. Nave.
t Origen, Homil. xxiii. in lib. Jet. Nave.
156 BELIEF IN FATE.
tant minister, nearly a century ago, maintained,
that an appeal to Fate was of a sacred nature;
and consequently that the smallest games, those in
which there is hut little to be won or lost, are on
that account most profane.
* The question has
been viewed in a different light, by a writer who
employed his brilliant eloquence to introduce the
spirit and doctrines of the temples into philosophy
and politics. Plato,! in his “ Republic,” suggests
that the marriages of citizens should be contracted
by lot; but, at the same time, that some secret
artifice, known only to the rulers of the state,
should enable them to overrule the decision and to
render it conformable to their views ; and that the
artifice should be so well concealed, that such as
considered themselves ill assorted would impute it
solely to chance or Fate.
To one or the other opinion, we may refer those
events, by which Fate has been forced to represent
the will of the Deity, and to be the instrument of
the revelation of His decrees—the same means of
decision having been employed by policy, and
adopted by credulity as true. Nebuchadnezzar
mingled his arrows, to decide whether he should
go against Ammon or against Jerusalem: the arrow
went out against Jerusalem, and the dreaded con­
queror did not long delay the accomplishment of
the decree of Fate.J This species of divination
was in use among the Arabs, in the time of Mo­
hammed : but that prophet proscribed it as a hateful
sin.§ The Tartar hordes, led on by Gengis Khan
to the conquest of Asia, endeavored by this means
also to ascertain the issue of a battle. A trick
* Dejoncourt, Lettres (juatre) sur les Jeux du Hasard. La Haye.
1713, p. 19.
t Plato in Timteo ... el Republic, lib. v.
t Ezekiel, chap. xxi. 19-22.
$ Le Coran, Sourate v., verset 99.
Digitized by C.ooQle
BELIEF IN FATE. 157
rendered the effect more striking. The magicians
wrote the respective names of the rival armies on
two arrows, which, without any apparent cause,
became agitated, approached each other, and
fought; lastly, one placed itself upon the other,
which was supposed to indicate the army destined
to succumb.
* Jugglers, who know the use of a
hair, or an almost imperceptible thread of silk, in
moving cards-from a distance, would find no diffi­
culty in working this miracle of the Tartars.
The Christians themselves have not abstained
from this superstitious practice. Alexis Comnenus,
in order to ascertain whether he should attack the
Comanes, and whether he should offer battle, or
march to the assistance of a besieged city, placed
two tablets on the altar, in the belief that the one
which should first strike his eye, after a night
passed in prayer, would convey an expression of
the will of Heaven.f The Senators of Venice,
under the reign of the Doge Dominique Michieli,j
not being able to agree respecting the town which
they should first attack, referred the decision to the
lot, and abode by its result.
Although at Venice, even more than elsewhere,
Fate had been frequently consulted in this manner,
with a view to modify the elections and divide the
suffrages; yet it may be doubted, whether it was
seriously allowed to exercise the same influence
over the schemes for a campaign, particularly in a
senate renowned for its policy, and at that time
composed of accomplished warriors. It was more
likely to have been a studied stratagem, intended
to engage a brave but undisciplined and insubor­
dinate people, in an expedition, the dangers and
♦ Petis de la Croix, Histoire de Gengis Khan, pp. 65-67.
t Anna Comnfene, Histoire d’Alexis Coinnene, lib. X. chap. v.
t D. Michieli, 35e Doge.. . Hadrian, Barland, De ducib. venet.
Digitized by C.ooQle
158 BELIEF IN FATE.
fatigues of which robbed it of its glory, and made
its necessity less apparent ?
In the decline and miserably weak condition of
the Greek Empire, neither honor, national interest,
nor religion, nothing in fact but superstition, was
capable of inspiring a degraded population with
energy : it was this decision of Fate that roused
Alexis, a prince who was in advance both of his
age and his nation, to action. And although, in
former times, we find the interpretation of Fate
proclaimed in a thousand shapes by the oracles,
and its decision sought after with avidity, as well
as received with blind veneration ; yet, we believe
at the same time, that the King of Babylon, having
previously arranged his plans, resorted to this su­
perstitious ceremony, merely as a means ofinsuring
its success, by demonstrating its infallibility, as
guarantied by the gods, to the enthusiasm of his
soldiers.
To lead men on by their credulity, in pretending
to partake of it, is an artifice of policy, which, in
every quarter of the globe, and in all times, has
been politically employed, without any other care
than varying its form, so as to make it coincide
with the habits and the intelligence of the race of
men on whom it was destined to act.
The chief of a Brazilian tribe, having taken up
arms at the instigation of the Dutch, who had
promised him efficient assistance, had some reason
to suspect, that his allies intended to leave him to
give battle unsupported, and afterward to reap th©
fruits of his exertions against their common enemy.
On several occasions, therefore, he consulted his
gods in presence of the Dutch ambassadors. From
the sacrificial but, voices seemed to issue predicting
defeat and flight, should the combat commence
before the arrival of the promised succor; they
Digitized by UooQle
BELIEF IN FATE. 159
Vi
also announced, that the time was not yet arrived
for receiving their aid; and commanded the chief,
meanwhile, to retire before the enemy. With the
assent of his soldiers, he protested that he should
obey, and retire even into the territories of the
Dutch : this was a sure mode of putting an end to
the delay. The Dutch envoy, Baro, firmly be­
lieved the oracle to proceed from the devil.
* We
may ascribe it with greater probability to priests
concealed in the sacrificial hut. The artifice was
rude, but the policy was complete.
The augur Naevius, after having in the name of
religion boldly opposed the alterations which the
elder Tarquin was desirous of effecting in the Ro­
man Constitution, was summoned to give a proof of
his science, by demonstrating the possibility of a
design secretly thought of by that monarch. He
replied that he would give a proof. The design
was to cut through a flint with a razor; and we
are told that the miracle was performed in the \
sight of all the people.! The oracle of Delphi in­
dicated with precision the occupation of Croesus
in the interior of his palace at Sardis, at the very
inoment of the inquiry.
We are inclined to suspect that Tarquin, unable
honorably to withdraw from a project, the danger
of which he perceived too late, connived at the op­
position of the augur, and with him, preconcerted
the miracle best adapted to give him an apparent
triumph; thus preserving his honor by seeming to
yield to the gods alone. We know that the os­
tensible pretext, for the religious embassies of the
♦ Voyage de Roulox Baro au Pays dee Tapayee en 1647.
t Dionys., Halic., lib. iii., cap. xxiv. Tarquin, as a reward of
the skill of Naevius, erected him a statue in the Canitium, a large,
open place of assembly in Rome, and buried the razor and flint ’
near it. Cicero, who had himself been an augur, treats this ab­
surd story as it deserves.—Ed.
Digitized by UooQle
160 ORACULAR PREDICTIONS.
King of Lydia, was to consult the Fates on his proj­
ects, while their real end was to gain the coopera­
tion of his people, and to encourage them by the
brilliant promises made to him by the most cele­
brated of oracles.
*
' These promises proved deceitful; and the equiv­
ocation by which the Delphic god maintained the
reputation of his infallibility, recurs so naturally to
our memory, and awakens the recollection of so
many similar events, that we might give a suffi­
cient explanation of almost all these oracles, by re­
calling the ambiguity of terms; the connivance
that favored them ; the mechanical inventions that
suggested the omens and the accidental advan­
tages offered by the simplicity of those who came
to consult them. We may, indeed, remark that
many of these oracles do not seem so much to have
been verified, as credulity desired and believed
them to be.
Every one who has read the excellent History
of Oracles, by Fontenelle, chief!yf taken from the
work of Vandale,§ must be aware that it leaves us
* The same power of stating what is passing in places at a
great distance from that in which the person is at the moment he
M making the statement, has been assumed by the mesmerists of
the present day; and such is the influence of credulity over even
educated persons, that many have believed it to be possible.—En.
t Lavater had made a promise to the metaphysician Bonnet,
that a sorceress, residing at Morat, should, four times in a day, de­
clare what Bonnet himself was doing at Geneva. At first, two
predictions exactly corresponded ; but the succeeding ones were
all absurd. (Dumont, Traite des Preuvee Judiciairee de J. Ben­
tham, tome ii., pp. 233,234.) In an earlier age, credit would have
been given to the two first trials, and their fortuitous success
would have been deemed confirmatoiy of a supernatural power.
1 See Clavier’s Memoirs sur les Oracles Anciens, 8vo., 1818.
Lucien (Alexandre ou le Faux Prophete, CEwares de Lucien, tome
iii., pp. 18-23, and 42-46) gives an idea of the artifices employed
by the priests of the oracles in his time; among others was the
secret of unsealing letters, so familiar to modem governments.
§ Anthony Vandale, a learned Dutchman, who practiced both
physic and theology. He wrote two dissertations De Oractdis,
Digitize le
ORACULAR PREDICTIONS. 161
but little to add respecting a widely spread error
of a belief in oracles, which was so universal, in­
deed, that it appears scarcely to have ceased under
one form before it was reproduced under another;
so unable are reason and experience to combat
with the passionate desire to penetrate into futu­
rity.
I may now merely remind my readers that
Apollo bestowed on his favorites the gift of divina­
tion, on the condition that they should not inquire
of him concerning that which was not permitted to
be revealed,
* a wise precaution to avoid perplex­
ing queries. The sibyl wrote her oracles on
leaves,t which, dispersed on the winds, were by
this artifice rendered obscure and incomplete, and
opened a door for equivocation until time brought
about the event. I need likewise merely recall to
recollection the colossal statue of Siva,| in the rear
of which are paths leading to a commodious seat,
just under the head-gear of the god; a place meant
undoubtedly for the priest, whose office it was to
utter the oracles in the name of the god.
Weak, impassioned men, the slaves of interest
and ambition, of pride and of policy, were those
who pronounced these oracles. It is known, and
a thousand instances demonstrate the fact that they
which were published in 1700. The Hutoire da Oracle! of Fon­
tenelle is taken entirely from Vandale’s work. Its object is to
prove that the oracles were not the responses of supernatural
agents or demons; and that they did not cease after the appear­
ance of our Savior, or the commencement of the Christian era.—
Ed.
* Servius in Virgil, Eclog. viii., v. 30.
t Virgil, jEnrid, lib. vi., v. 442-450.
t Maria Graham, Sijour aux Indes.p. 96. Siva Kala is one
of the Hindoo triad, the Indian God of Fire, and is called the De­
stroyer. His ministers are evil spirits, Saklie, who are supposed
to live in the stars, clouds, and lower part of the heavens; and
bloody sacrifices are offered up both to the principal god and to
pis satellites.—Ed.
1. L
Digitized by Google
162 EVILS OF ORACULAR PREDICTIONS.
even appeared respectable in the eyes of those who
profited by their deluding intervention. This con­
sideration gives the character of history to many
mythological tales. A chief or a king is led to be­
lieve that intimation had been received from Heav­
en, that his life and his throne are in jeopardy;
and the murderer whom he has to fear, it is said,
is his son, or his son-in-law, or the son of bis only
daughter. By an inconsistency so frequently re­
peated that it passes unnoticed, the alarmed prince,
acting on an implicit credence in the prediction
and its infallibility, nevertheless adopts such meas­
ures as show that he believes it possible to avert
his destiny. Condemning himself or his daughter
to celibacy, he may die without posterity; or, jeal­
ously combating an imaginary danger, he may be­
come an unjust aggressor, or a suspicious father,
and expose himself to assassination, from one whose
days he had himself proscribed. His riches and
his power thus pass into the hands of the men who
dictated the prediction, and who had long been
prepared to reap its fruits. In this story there is
nothing marvelous, nothing difficult for human
credulity to believe; an apparent miracle confined
to no age, and to no particular locality.
Only such of the Greeks as were bound by a
solemn oath to follow Menelaus, were led by him
to the walls of Troy; and among these might have
been found many who went with reluctance, and
many more who were desirous to abandon a cruel
enterprise, the issue of which seemed every day
more doubtful and more distant. Of this number
Calchas appears to have been a prophet on whom
the confidence of the whole army depended.
*
* Calchas had received the powers of divination from Apollo;
and, at the same time, he was informed that, should he find one
more skilled in the art than himself, he must perish. This pre-
Digitized by UooQle
EVILS RESULTING FROM PREDICTIONS. 163
Sure of his ascendency, he multiplied discouraging
predictions. From the opening of the war he de­
clared that a ten years’ siege would be necessary
to capture Troy. He reduced the commander-in-
chief to the alternative of sacrificing his only daugh­
ter, Iphigenia, to Diana, or renouncing the expe­
dition. At a later period, he required him to part
with a favorite slave. The omens which protected
the city of Priam were multiplied by him at will.
It was not enough to have dragged Achilles to cer­
tain death; the son of that hero should also come
there after the death of the father. It was neces­
sary that Philoctetes, removed by an offense which
was unpardonable, and only aggravated by time,
should be brought there: lastly, it was necessary
to penetrate into the heart of the besieged city,
and to abduct the mysterious image of its protect­
ing deity. Considered in this light, do not oracles,
apparently fabulous, form an important part of the
history of a people, over whom they exercised so
irresistible an empire 1
*
diction was fulfilled at Colophon, after the Trojan war. Mopus,
another augur, mentioned the exact number of figs on the
branches of a certain fig-tree after Calchas had failed; and the
chagrin which this defeat occasioned was the death of the un­
fortunate soothsayer.—Ed.
* The oracles of antiquity were very numerous, but in all of
them the pretended revelations were made through some medium,
which was different in the different places where the oracles
existed. They were consulted on all important occasions of
public and private life; and they were expected to point out
both what ought to be done, and what ought not to be done by
the inquirer.
The most celebrated of the Greek oracles were those of Apollo,
of which there were twenty-two; but the chief was that of
-Delphi, which was more resorted to and consulted than even
that of Zeus, or Jupiter, at Olympia. At Delphi, the Pythia,
when intoxicated by the vapors which issued from under the
tripod on which she sat, uttered unintelligible sounds, which
were written down, and explained by the priestess before they
were delivered to those who consulted the oracle. The Pythias
were, in early times, young girls; but, owing to an indiscretion
Digitized by GooQle
164 TREATMENT OF PROPHETS.
If the future may be predicted with certainty,
then must it be irrevocably fixed; and thus the
prophet resembles the sun-dial, as it passively re­
veals the sun’s diurnal progress. But credulity is
committed by one of them, they were afterward not elected until
they had attained the age of fifty years, although, even then,
they were attired as young maidens. They were frequently
obliged to be changed on account of the deleterious influence of
the gas on their constitutions; and sometimes, indeed, they fell
victims to its power, although they prepared themselves before
ascending the tripod by fasting three days, and bathing in the
Castalian fountain. Plutarch informs us (De Oral. def. c. 51),
that the Pythia, in her delirium, has leaped from the tripod,
been thrown into convulsions, and, after a few days, has died.
In the zenith of the prosperity of Greece, there were three
Pythias, who alternately officiated.
It is curious to find that, amid the superstition which gave to
oracles such great authority, responses were refused to any one
who came with any evil design, or who had committed a crime,
until he had atoned for it; the natural effect of which was to in­
sure a sincere faith in the oracle. The opinions respecting the
source of the wisdom displayed in many of the answers have
been various: some ascribing them truly to divine influence;
others, with more probability, to the priests being of education
and elevated sentiments,'who, for the sake of power, lent them­
selves to a sacred imposture.
The next in celebrity of the oracles of Apollo, was that at
Didyma, in the territory of Miletus. It was called the Oracle of
the Branchida, from Branches, a son of Apollo, who came from
Delphi, and built the altar at Didyma. The same ceremonies
were observed here as at Delphi.
Another oracle of Apollo, much consulted, was situated at
Claros, in the territory of Colophon. The responses were de­
livered in verse by a priest, who descended into a cavern, drank
of the water from a secret well, and then pronounced the oracle.
*
Beside the oracles of Zeus, Apollo, ana other gods, there were
also oracles of heroes. That of Amphiares, near Thebes, was
consulted chiefly by invalids, who, after sacrificing a ram, slept a
night in the temple, where they expected the means of tneir
recovery to be revealed to them in their dreams; a specimen of
credulity only equaled by that displayed in the present time, in
the confidence reposed in the healing power of every nostrum
which knavery and impudence offers to the public.
The oracle of Trophonius shall be noticed in a future note.
The oracles of JEsculapius were numerous, but the most cele­
brated was that of Epidawus, in which recovery was sought
in the same manner as at Amphiarus, by sleeping in the temple.
* Tacitus, jJnnoL, R«, 54.
Digitized by Google
TREATMENT OF PROPHETS. 165
as unreasoning as it is passionate: and according
as the predictions please or afflict, the prophet is
exalted as a god, or hated as a malevolent spirit;
is adored, or cursed ; rewarded, or punished. By
fear he is taxed with imposture, with malevolence,
or with corruption; he is insulted, menaced, given
up to torture; he is supplicated to retract his
words, as though the pretended gift of penetrating
the future was accompanied by the power of chan­
ging its decrees; yet these revelations always ob­
tained credit. If we compare the bearing of these
contradictory sentiments with the influence pos­
sessed by these oracles, there will be just reason
for suspecting that the prophets themselves did not
always know the extent of their resources; that
they kept within the limits of the power attainable
by them: and we may trace the natural progres­
sion of the human passions, in what, until the pres­
ent time, has appeared to be a mere tissue of false­
hoods, or the delirium of the imagination.
I have already said, that many things which, in
the present day, belong only to the sphere of amuse­
ment, were formerly employed to extend the do­
minion of the Thaumaturgists. The ventriloquist,
whose only aim now is to excite our laughter, form­
erly played a more serious part.
*
* Beitrag ntr OescA. des Somnambulismus, Sec. (Fermischte Schrtften^
p 382.) .
A German author of the name of Wolf,
* has endeavored to show,
that what is now termed Mesmerism, was known to the priests
of this temple; but the point is not satisfactorily made out.
The most singular of all the oracles were those of the dead, in
which sacrifices were offered to the powers of the lower regions,
and the snirits of the dead were supposed to be called up. It is
probable that the agent in this case was ventriloquism; and the
shades made to appear by means similar to those employed in
the phantasmagoria, of which an explanation will be found in a
subsequent note.—Ed.
* Ventriloquism is the power of imitating voices, sounds, or
noises, as if they were perfectly extraneous, and not originating
Digitized by Google
166 VENTRILOQUISM EMPLOYED IN ORACLES.
This internal voice, which is apparently extra­
neous to the utterer, whose lips remain motionless,
whether it appeared to come from the earth, or
from a distant object, was anciently regarded as a
supernatural and superhuman sound.
* The ex.
* Muller’s Elements of Physiology, translated by Baly, vol. ii., p. 1307,
t Hist. Curieuse des Sorciers, 4rc., par Mathias de Giraldo.
in the utterer, but in some other person, and in places at various
distances, andeven in several directions. A skillful ventriloquist
produces these effects without any apparent movement of his
jaws, lips, or features. Various opmions have been advanced by
physiologists with regard to the manner of producing such an
effect. The most commonly received opinion refers it to the
power of articulation during inspiration. M. Majendie regards it
as a mere modification of the ordinary voice, so as to imitate the
sounds which the voice suffers from distance: and latterly Muller
contends that, it “ consists in inspiring deeply, so as to protrude
forward the abdominal viscera by the descent of the diaphragm,
and then speaking while the expiration is performed very slowly
through a very narrow glottis by means ofthe sides of the chest
alone, the diaphragm maintaining its depressed position. Sounds
may be thus uttered which resemble the voice of a person calling
from a distance.”* This is a very probable explanation, espe­
cially as the imagination influences the judgment when we direct
the ear to the place whence the ventriloquist pretends that the
sounds proceed; a part of the trick which is always taken advan­
tage of by the ventriloquists.—Ed.
* The art of ventriloquism was known at a very early period,
and was generally regarded by the ignorant as a supernatural
gift, associated with sorcery. It was one of the evidences against
a person accused of sorcery, and of course had a share in produ­
cing their condemnation. In the seventeenth century a woman
named Cecile astonished the inhabitants of Lisbon with her pow­
ers as a ventriloquist; she was convicted of being a sorceress,
and possessed of a demon; and, although she was not burned,
yet, she was transported to the island of St. Thomas, where she
died.t -
“ One of the most successful ventriloquists of modem times
was M. St. Gille, a grocer, cf St. Germain en Laye. He exhib­
ited his art merely as a matter of amusement, but with a degree
of skill which appears almost incredible. He had occasion to
take shelter from a storm in a convent, while the monks were
lamenting over the tomb of a lately deceased brother, the few
honors that had been paid to his memory. A voice was suddenly
heard to proceed from the roof of the choir, bewailing the condi­
tion of the deceased in purgatory, and reproving the brotherhood
for their want of zeal. The tidings of this supernatural event
brought the whole brotherhood into the church. The voice again
Digitized by UooQle
VENTRILOQUISM EMPLOYED IN ORACLES. 167
pressions of the historian Josephus,
* leave no room
to doubt that the witch of Endor was a ventrilo­
quist, and thus had no difficulty in conveying to
Saul responses from the assumed shade of Samuel.
Other beings similarly endowed with the spirit of
a Python, and the power of sorcery, expressed
their oracles through the medium of a low, dull
voice, apparently issuing from the earth ; from
which custom a striking comparison is borrowed
by the prophet Isaiah.t
" Quoted from a record of Abbe de la Chapelle, in Brewster's Nat.
Magic, p. 172.
The name of Engastrimythes, given by Greeks
to the Pythiae, women practicing the art of divina­
tion,| indicates that they made use of the same ar­
tifice. Pythagoras addresses a speech to the river
Nessus, which answered in a distinct voice, Igreet
thee, Pythagoras.^
repeated its lamentations and reproaches, and the whole convent
fell upon their faces, and vowed to make a reparation of their
error. They accordingly chanted in full choir a De Profundis,
during the intervals of which the spirit of the departed monk ex­
pressed his satisfaction at their pious exercises. The prior after­
ward expressed himself strongly against modern skepticism on
the subject of apparitions; and M. St. Gille had great difficulty
in convincing the fraternity that the whole was a deception.
*
The influence of ventnloquism over the human race is not,
therefore, wonderful, when we perceive that it is not merely con­
fined to the imitation of sounds and voices on earth, but that he
has, in a certain degree, the supernatural at his command. The
power which it must have given to the pagan priesthood, in addi­
tion to their other deceptions, may be easily imagined.—Ed.
* Flav. Joseph., Aut. Jud., lib. iv., cap. xv.
t “ And thy voice shall die as one that hath a familiar spirit,
out of the ground, and thy speech shall whisperout of the dust.”
Isaiah, cap. xxix., v. 4.
1 D. M. K. Putonissae Martis. An inscription found in the vil­
lage of Colombiers, in the diocese D’Usez (Voyage litttraire de
D. Martenne et de D. Durant, Premiere Partie, Paris, 1712. p. 313),
shows us that Mars had in Gaul, Pythiae, or priestesses, having
the gift of ventriloquism.
<5 lamblich., Fira Pythagor., cap. 28. Pythagoras was born at
Suma, about the year 608 u.c. His father, Menarcbus, was a
person of distinction, and therefore capable of affording his son
168 VENTRILOQUISM EMPLOYED IN ORACLES.
At the command of the chief of the Gymnoso-
phists of Upper Egypt, a tree uttered words, in the
presence of Apollonius, with a clear voice, re­
sembling that of a woman ;
* in both these cases,
the voice was that of a ventriloquist, placed in a
convenient situation; and to the same origin we
may, with probability, ascribe the oracles said to
proceed from the oaks pf Dodonad It is by aston­
ishing his auditors by ventriloquism, that the Chi­
nese prophet, or magician, persuades them that
they listen to the voice of their divinity. This art
was not unknown to the black slaves at Saint
every advantage which education can bestow; and Pythagoras
lost no opportunity of profiting by them, both in respect to bodily
and mental vigor, and energy. He traveled expressly to acquire
knowledge, and submitted to much severe discipline for that pur­
pose. In the temple of Thebes, and by a residence of twenty-two
years in Egypt, he became deeply versed in all the learning of the
Egyptians, which he at first unsuccessfully endeavored to trans­
fer to Samos; but afterward succeeded by affecting mystery,
living in a cave, and descending to practice on the credulity of
his countrymen, who, having discovered his frauds, forced him to
leave the island. At Crotona, where he settled, he taught the
virtues of temperance, and made numerous proselytes among the
most voluptuous and abandoned. He was, nevertheless, still an
impostor, practicing for the sake of ambition. He lived upon
vegetables, clothed himself in a long, white robe, allowed his
beard to grow, and impressed upon the multitude, that he had
received his doctrines directly from heaven. These he publicly
delivered under the veil of symbols ; but those initiated in private
were bound by a vow of silence, not to divulge what they had
acquired. He maintained the doctrine of the metempsychosis,
or the transmigration of the soul; and pretended that he remem­
bered being the person in whom his soul had resided before he
became Pythagoras. His doctrine of the universe was that lately
revived in the “ Vestiges of Creation,” namely:—that the uni­
verse was at first a shapeless mass; and all subsequent forms
progressed through certain gradations, until they arrived at per­
fection. He invented the fanciful doctrine of the music of the
spheres; and he was supposed to have heard it through the favor
of the gods. He died 497 b.c., it is supposed at Metapontum,
where his disciples paid superstitious honors to his memory.—Ed.
* Philostrat., Vit. Apollon.^ lib. vi., cap. v.
t It is more probable, that the priests were concealed in among
the oaks, and delivered the responses which were attributed to
the trees.—Ed.
Digitized by C.ooQle
VENTRILOQUISM EMPLOYED IN ORACLES. 169
Thomas. About the commencement of the last
century, one of these unfortunate people having
caused a voice to emanate brom an earthen figure,
and even from a cane, carried by one of the inhab­
itants, was burned alive as a sorcerer.
* In our
own days, the credulous planter has been known
to consult a noted sorcerer, in other words, a ven­
triloquist slave, who, in order to retain his confi­
dence, was not backward to devote even the inno­
cent to death or torture, for a real or an imaginary
crime, the authors of which, he is required, by his
divinations, to discover and to name.T
* In 1701.—Labat., Nouveau Voyage aux Uetfrangaiees de VArne-
rigue, tome ii., pp. 64, 65.
' 11 learned this fact from a credible witness. .
A blind, and even eager credulity favored the
subtile and audacious deceptions that maintained
the credit of the oracles. But a day at length
arrived, in which the lessons of philosophy were
spread among the enlightened classes; and from
that moment credulity was prostrated before the
spirit of inquiry. Almost at the same time arose
the Christian religion, which in its progress ex­
posed the miracles of Polytheism with such a
scrutinizing observation, that it succeeded in ren-
dering^the manceuvers of which, till then, the di­
viners had availed themselves, not only difficult
but almost impracticable. Such were the real
causes of the gradual cessation of the most cele­
brated oracles. To replace those fallen into dis­
repute, the Polytheists endeavored to bring new
ones into notice; but these, being narrowly watched
from their birth, never obtained an extended or
permanent confidence. Oracles necessarily disap­
peared sooner than miracles, the execution of
which, as they depended on scientific acquirements,
continued to command the admiration, not only of
Digitized by Google
170 SOURCES OF SOME ORACLES.
the credulous but also the skeptical who were
unable to discover their origin, as long as that
knowledge remained enveloped in mystery.
It is not correct, however, to assume that, in the
delivering of oracles, all was intentional imposture
and deceit. Those who uttered them were often
under the influence of real delirium. M. de Tied-
mann very plausibly believes, that the German
priestesses, prophesying amid the din of the tu­
mult of waters, and fixedly regarding the eddies
formed on the rapid course of the river,
* would,
in such a position, soon become vertiginous. Some­
thing similar may be seen in the cataleptic state
into which the magnetizers throw their subjects
who are weak in organization, and still more feeble
in mind, by disturbing the imagination and fixing
attention for a considerable time on a succession
of monotonous and absurd gestures.
* Plutarch, in Canar., cap. xxi.—S. Clem., Alex. Stromal., lib. L
t Elisha, after declaring that except for the presence of Jehosa-
phat, he would not prophesy for Jehoram, says, “ But now bring
me a minstrel. And it came to pass, when the minstrel played,
that the hand of the Lord came upon him.”—2 Kinge, chap, iii_,
Music, exercising its well known influence, is
calculated to dispose an enthusiast to believe that
the gods adopt it as a medium of revelation. Even
among the Hebrews, as among other people of
antiquity, the prophet had recourse to music to
maintain the prophetic elevation of his spirit.!
The prophets, or Barvas, of the Billhs, in Hindos-
tan, excite their minds by sacred songs and instru­
mental music, during which they are seized with a
kind of frenzy, attended with extravagant gestures,
and end by giving utterance to what are regarded
as oracles. The Barvas receive disciples, and,
after some preparatory ceremonies, subject them
to a kind of musical ordeal. Such as are not
Digitized by Gooqle
SOURCES OF THE BELIEF IN ORACLES. 171
»
moved by it to the borders of ecstatic frenzy, are
immediately rejected, as incapable of being the
recipients of divine inspiration.
*
* Nouvelles Annates des Voyages, tome xxvii., pp. 333, 334.
f lamblichus, De Mysteriis, cap. xxix.
j A place near Miletus, where the Branchid®, a family who
were the hereditary priests of the temple of Apollo Didymaus,
held their oracle.—Ed.
6 Lamblichus, De Mysteriis., cap. xxv.
|| Bibentium. breviore vita.—Plin., Hist. JVal.,lib. ii., cap.CV. —lam-
blichus, De Myst., cap. xxv.
Unless the mind is excited, there can be no be­
lief in oracles; and to produce this in the auditor,
the excitement must be experienced by the utterer.
In the temples of Greece and those of Asia, be­
side the use of flutes, of cymbals, or of trumpets,
more powerful agents were summoned, when heav­
enly interpretations were to be delivered.
When a dream was the chosen mode of revela­
tion, the youngest and most simple persons were
selected as best adapted to succeed in this divi­
nation ; and they were assisted in it by magical
invocations, and by the incense of particular per-
fumes.f Porphyry acknowledges that such pro­
cesses are calculated to inflame the imagination,
and lamblichus expresses the same opinion in
different words, asserting that such preparations
render a man worthy of approaching the Divin­
ity-
At Didyma.t previous to prophesying, the
priestess of the oracle of Branchides inhaled for
some time the vapor of a sacred fountain.^ The
oracle ofthe Colophonians, at Claros, was delivered
by a priest, who prepared himself by drinking the
water of a basin inclosed in the grotto of Apollo.
This beverage is said to have shortened his days.||
It is well known in how strange a manner the
Pythia was exposed to the vapor exhaled from
Digitized by U.ooQle
172 SILENCE OF THE DELPHIAN ORACLE.
the cavern of Delphi.
* Pindar and Plutarch as­
sure us, that the escape of the sacred vapor was
accompanied by a sweet odor, which penetrated
even to the cell, where those who came to consult
awaited the responses of the oracle.t Whether
natural perfumes were combined with the physical
agents, or that the priests sought with the assist­
ance of artificial perfumes to conceal the foetid
odor of the gas wnich issued from the cavern, can
not now be determined. But, after a time, the
Pythia ceased to answer: the exhalations, also, at
length ceased; and owing to that cessation, the
cotemporaries of Cicero accounted for the silence
of the orade. Cicero rejects this explanation with
contempt; and, theologically speaking, it was ab­
surd, but quite admissible as a physical reason for
the silence of the oracle.^ Centuries later, Por-
phyry§ unhesitatingly affirms that the exhalations
of the earth, and the water of certain fountains,
tended to excite divine ecstasies, in the midst of
which the oracles were delivered. Inebriated with
the gas that exuded beneath the sacred tripod, the
Delphic priestess fell into a nervous, convulsive,
and ecstatic state, against which she might struggle
without being able to regain her self-possession.
While out of her senses, and under the sway of an
♦ S. Johan. Chrysost., Homelia, xxix. super cap. xii., Epist. i. ad
Corinth.
t Pindar., Olym. vii, ver. 59.—Plutarch., De Oracul. defect.
t Cicer., De Divinat., lib. ii. The original temple, if it could be
called such, at Delphi, was a hut made of boughs of laurel; but
it afterward became a splendid edifice. It was three times de­
stroyed by the accidents of war and of fire, and three times re­
built. The responses were at first delivered in verse, but on
some one remarking that Apollo was the worst versifier in
Greece, they were afterward delivered in prose. The tripod on
which the rythia sat, is still in existence at Constantinople,
where it was carried by Constantine; but the hollow column on
which it stood, remains in the cavern.—Ed.
$ Euseb., Prtzp, evangel.
Digitized by GooQle
SILENCE OF THE DELPHIAN ORACLE. 173
overexcited imagination, she uttered some words,
or mysterious phrases, from which it was the
priest’s care to extract the revelations of the fu­
ture.
* All this is as natural as the sinking languor
which succeeded this excessive disorder of body
and mind, and which sooner or later proved
mortal.
* The tripod was placed over the mouth of the cavern, whence
issued the vapor, which was supposed to be carbonic acid gas ;
but that is not sufficiently intoxicating; and I suspect the gas
was sulphurous acid, as it caused almost frantic delirium, as
already mentioned (note, p. 154). The secondary effects of this
gas are also similar to those experienced by the Delphic priestess,
namely, vertigo, nausea, and great weakness of the lower ex­
tremities. The Piachi, or Mexican priests, uttered their re­
sponses, or oracles, when drunk with the fumes of tobacco, which,
on these occasions, was thrown upon the fire of the altar, and the
fumes inhaled by the priests.—Ed.
We may thus see, that it is in vain to follow the
history of miracles and of prodigies, or to think of
examining separately what appertains to the his­
tory of ancient science. When the priest of Claros
was affected by a beverage destructive to his health,
when the priestess of the Branchides, and the
Delphic Pythia, exposed themselves to gaseous
exhalations, the power of which was augmented
by other physical agents; when the prophetesses
of Germany, rapt in contemplation, sat immovable
on the borders of torrents; when the Barvas aban­
doned themselves to the power of music, whose
influence over them was fostered by their religious
education, no results, in all these cases, could be
more natural than the dreams, the delirium, the
intoxication, the vertigo, and the frantic excite­
ment, that were consequent on their proceedings.
The subsequent inspiration, or rather the oracles
attributed to it, were but the impostures of priest­
craft ; but science presided over their craft, and
regulated the causes of the vertigo, and of the
Digitized by UooQle
174 SOURCES OF SOME ORACLES.
frenzy, and pointed to the advantages to be derived
from them by the Thaumaturgists. .
Simple observations, which require nothing be­
yond common reflection, and which we scarcely
venture to range under the head of science, have
also been the foundation of oracles. Instructed
by general laws, the priest was able to risk a pre­
diction respecting the soil and the climate of a
country, by consulting the entrails of particular
victims. The science of the Auspices, and of the
Augurs, was also founded on observations apper­
taining to physics, to meteorology, or to natural
history.
In Livonia and in Esthonia, a religious opinion,
anterior to the establishment of Christianity,
* for­
bade the agriculturist to destroy by fire the crickets
(Gryllus domesticus) that he should find in his habi­
tation ; as those insects which the crickets kill
would tear his clothes and his linen to pieces.
When about to build a house, he was directed to
observe what species of ant showed itself first at
the appointed place. The appearance of the great
fawn-colored ant, or the black ant, was regarded
as pointing out the spot as a favorable site; but
should the small red ant appear, another spot was
to be selected. This precaution was proper, as
this little insect makes the greatest havoc in the
provisions and stores of man, while the two former
species, by preying upon the latter, necessarily
put an end to its ravages. In the same manner,
the cricket devours other insects; and it is espe­
cially destructive of ants ; a fact which has entitled
it to consideration, and in many countries rendered
it a sacred insect. There is no difficulty in pre­
* Debray, Sur les prejuges et idees superstitieuses des Liwmient,
Lettoniens et Esthoniens.—Nouvelles Annales des Voyages, tome
xviii., p. 114.
Digitized by UooQle
MEANS EMPLOYED TO IMPOSE ON CREDULITY. 175
dieting to the man who destroys them, that he will
suffer from the ravages of those insects of which it
is the natural enemy.
From infancy, Naevius announced his future
talent for the profession of an augur. In order to
obtain a fine bunch of grapes, as an offering to the
gods, he consulted the birds with as much success
as sagacity :
* he knew that by frequenting the spot
where the grapes were ripe and abundant, their
preference should lead him to the object of his
search. A similar proof of juvenile sagacity was
exhibited in our times. Gassendi, directing the
attention of his school-fellows to the sky, as they
stood under a tree, proved to them that the clouds,
driven rapidly by the wind, moved over their heads,
and not the moon, although she appeared the mov­
ing object. In the days of oracles we should have
beheld in him an embryo prophet.
The Thaumaturgist has always proposed to him­
self one great end; and, in order to attain it, he
has not scrupled to make use of all means indiffer­
ently, whether charlatanism, tricks, allegories, nat­
ural phenomena, observations, reasoning, or true
science. But of all the means employed, perhaps
the most powerful, at least that which increased
the efficacy of all the rest, was the inviolable se­
crecy which, by general consent, concealed his
operations. To envelop events in the veil of mys­
tery,! said the sages themselves, serves to raise
veneration for those divinities, whose nature eludes
the senses of man.
♦ Dionys., Halic., Jib. iii., cap. xxi-lvi.
t Mystica sacrorum occultatio majestatem nwnini conciliat, imitans
ejus naturam effugientem sensus nostros.—Strabo, lib. x.
Digitized by UooQle
176 SAFEGUARDS TO ANCIENT MYSTERIES.
CHAPTER VIII.
Safeguards of the Mystery that surrounded the Occult Sciences.
—Hieroglyphics, Idioms, and Sacred Writing.—Not understood
by the Uninitiated.—Enigmatical Language of the Invocations.
—Gradual and partial Revelations known in their Plenitude
only to a small Number of Priests.—Oaths, and Falsehoods
respecting the Nature of the Processes, and the Extent of Magi­
cal Operations.—Consequences of this Mystery: 1st The Sci­
ence of Magic was reduced, in the hands of the Thaumaturgists,
to a Practice, the Nature of which, devoid of Theory, became
in time Unintelligible ; 2d. Great Errors universally prevailed,
owing to Ignorance of the Limits that circumscribed this power;
the Desire to penetrate into Secrets of Magic, and the Habit of
attributing its Efficacy to the visible and ostensible Processes
of Science.
Ought we to be astonished that .the writings of
the ancients discover only scattered traces and im­
perfect notions of the Occult Science ; or even that
some portion of the science is entirely lost 1 The
student of history well knows that, in former times,
not only the more refined pursuits, but also all the
treasures of real knowledge, were under the care­
ful guardianship of the genius of mystery, and,
therefore, more or less inaccessible.
How many causes concurred to maintain that
power I The subsistent influence of the settled
form of civilization ; the rites of initiation, subse­
quently adopted by the schools of philosophy; the
value of exclusive possession; the well grounded
fear of drawing on itself the hatred of men who
cherished this property with a jealous pride; and,
lastly, above all, the necessity of keeping mankind
in darkness, in order to retain the control over him,
with the desire to preserve what formed, as it were,
the patrimony of the enlightened classes, the guar­
anty of their honors and their powers.
This last consideration did not escape the obser-
Digitized by Google
SAFEGUARDS OF ANCIENT MYSTERIES. 177
vation of a man, who knew how to enhance by
sound and deep philosophy the value of his exten­
sive erudition. Michaelis
* remarks, that a univer­
sal language, invented by the learned, and exclu­
sively for their use, would secure to them the sole
possession of science. “ The multitude would re­
sign themselves to the governance of those learned
impostures, as was the case in Egypt, when all dis­
coveries were concealed under the veil of hiero­
glyphics.” For instance, were the discoveries
relative to electricity only expounded in such a lan­
guage, what could be more easy than to metamor­
phose the phenomena of that science into apparent
miracles, and establish a sacred tyranny by means
of false wonders 1 “ Thus the opportunity would
tempt, and the facility of deception augment, the
number of impostors.”
One step farther, and Michaelis might have ob­
served that his hypothesis was the actual history
of antiquity; that almost all nations have possessed
some species of sacred writings, not more intelligi­
ble to the vulgar than the hieroglyphics of Egypt.
The Roman pontiffs, in their rites, made use of
names and words known to themselves alone; the
few we are acquainted with, relate only to ceremo­
nials ; those having reference to real science have
been too carefully concealed to reach us.
This is precisely what we learn from Lydus,t
relative to the people from whom the Romans bor­
rowed their religious system. The Etruscans, he
informs us, were instructed in divination by the
* Michaelis, On the influence of opinions on language^ and of lan­
guage on opinions, 1759. John David Michaelis, a native of Halle,
Professor of Theology and Oriental Literature in the University
of Gottingen. He is celebrated for his biblical and Oriental re­
searches. It is said that his religious opinions were never very
firmly fixed ; but his writings are strikingly demonstrative of his
reverence for the Sacred Scriptures.—Ed.
f Lvdus, De Ostentis., cap. iii.
I. M
Digitized by C.ooQle
178 SAFEGUARDS OF ANCIENT MYSTERIES.
Lydians, before the arrival of Evander,
* the Arca­
dian, in Italy. At that time there existed a form
of writing different to that afterward made use of,
and which was not generally known; and without
its aid no secret would have long remained hid
from the profane. Tarchon, the ancient! (anterior
to the cotemporary of 2Eneas of that name), had
written a book upon the mysteries and the religious
rites of divination; in which he represented him­
self as interrogating Tages (the miraculous child,
bom from a furrow of the earth), precisely as Ar­
juna questions the god Krishna, in the IShaghuat
Gluta.\ The questions of Tarchon were express­
ed in ordinary language; but in his book the an­
swers of Tages were conveyed in ancient and sa­
cred characters; so that Lydus, or the writer whom
he copies, was not able to do more than conjecture
the sense by reflecting on the questions themselves;
and from some passages relating to them in Pliny
and Apuleius,§ Lydus insists on the necessity of
♦ The son of the prophetess Carmente, and a king of Arcadia.
He was driven from Arcadia on account of an accidental murder.
He retired to Italy, drove out the aborigines, and acquired the
sovereignty of that country. He raised altars to Hercules in his
new possessions—introduced the Greek alphabet, and many of
the customs of Arcadia. He was a cotemporary of jEneas, and
assisted him in his wars with the Rutuli. He was deified after
his death, and an altar erected to him on Mount Aventine.—Ed.
t Photius says, that Tarchon instructed the Etruscans in the
Mystical Sciences.—Biblioth. Cod.
t It is a curious fact, that the name Krishna in Irish, as well
as in Sanscrit, is applied to the sun.—Ed.
§ Lucius Apuleius, a Platonic philosopher of the second cent­
ury. He was bom at Madauras, in Africa; and, after studying
at Carthage, Athens, and Rome, he traveled with the intention
of obtaining initiation in the mysteries which then enveloped
many religions, and almost all science. He became a priest of
Osiris, and having married a rich widow, he was accuseu by her
relations before Claudius Maximus, Proconsul of Africa, of hav­
ing employed sorcery to obtain her hand. He wrote numerous
works in prose, and in verse; the best known of which is the
Golden Ass, a satire on the absurdities of Magic, and the crimes
of the Priesthood. It is a romance, but written with so much re-
Digitized by UooQle
SAFEGUARDS OF ANCIENT MYSTERIES. 179
not clearly exposing the secret science, and of con­
cealing it from the profane by fables and parables;
it is only in this spirit that he writes on miracles.
The same opinions are contained in the works of
a writer of the sixth century, and they must, in­
deed, have been anciently very widely spread.
We must not, however, imagine that the Egyp­
tian priests trusted entirely to the impenetrability
of their hieroglyphics. When Apuleius obtained
the first degree of initiation, the books destined for
his instruction were brought by the priest from the
most secret part of the sanctuary. It was not
enough that the images of diverse species of ani­
mals were used in place of stenographic writing ;
one part of these books was written in unknown
characters; and the language in all of them was
further preserved from the curiosity of the pro­
fane,
* by the addition of numerous accents, absurd
and varied in their forms, and undoubtedly chan­
ging the value of the letters above which they were
placed.
In Egypt, and probably also in the temples of
other countries, these mysteries were concealed
under a second envelop, namely, the language in
which the invocations were couched. Chaeremonf
gave instructions how to command the genii, in the
name ofhim who sitteth on the Lotus—borne in a
vessel, or who appears different in each of the signs
of the Zodiac. These marks unequivocally distin­
guish Osiris, the sun-god. ^Emanating from an as-
semblance to truth, that many persons have believed all related
in it as true history.—Ed.
* “ De opertis adyti profert (piosdam libros litteris ignorabilibus,
pTtenotalos, partim figuns cujusce modi animalium concepti ser-
monis compendiosa verba suggerenleg ; partim nodosis, et in modum
rot® tortuosis capreolatimque condensis apicibus, a—curios&
profanorum lectione munitos.”—Apuleius, Metamorph.., lib. xi.
t Porphyry, quoted by Eusebius.—Prop. Evang.t lib. cap. viii.
et ix.
Digitized by
180 MAGIC A RELIC OF OCCULT SCIENCE.
tronomical religion, the sacred formularies trans­
ferred the language of astronomy to magical oper­
ations.
We shall prove that the sorcery and magic of
the moderns were, in a great measure, composed
of the relics of the occult science, formerly pre­
served in the temples. We can trace in it that
confusion of language, so much the more striking,
that nothing could give rise to it at an epoch dis­
tant from the reign of astronomical religion ; so
that we are authorized to affirm that it is referable
to a period, when its expressions were compre­
hended, its origin known and revered. A sorcerer
of Cordova
* invoking a star, conjured it in the
name of the angel-wolf: now, we know well that
the wolf in Egpyt was emblematical of the sun and
of the year; yet this example, were it a solitary one,
would prove little. But on examining the frag­
ment published by J. Wierius, under the title of
Pseudo-Monarchia Damonum,] we can not fail to
see in it the disfigured vestiges of a celestial calen­
dar. In the pretended list of the genii obedient
to the invocation of the Theurgist, we find one
whose double face recalls that of Janus—the em­
blem of the close and the opening of the year.
* Llorente, Histoire de VInquisition, cap. xxxviii., tome iii., page
465. . . . .
t J. Wierius, De Prastigiis damonum et incantationibus ac vene-
Jiciis.—Basilese, 1583. The magicians give pompous titles to this
fragment. They call it sometimes Liber empto-Solomonis; but in
all probability it is but an extract of a more extensive work that
bore this name, and the authority of which is even cited in Wie-
rius’s work. Joannis Wierius was a native of Graves, in Brabant.
He flourished in the middle of the sixteenth century. He studied
both theology and medicine, and was a man of very extensive
erudition.—Ed.
Four kings are stated to preside over the four
cardinal points; the Man, the Bull, the Lion, all
three-winged; and the Crocodile, which, in the
MAGIC A RELIC OF OCCULT SCIENCE. 181
Egyptian planisphere stands instead of the Scar­
pion ; and these are the ancient solstitial and equi­
noctial signs. Some genii, we are told, inhabit the
celestial signs ; one in particular resides in Sagit­
tarius, Among them may be found the dragon
(draco), the marine monster, the hare (lepus), the
crow (corvus), the dog (canis major), the virgin
(virgo), the little horse, whose name figures among
the constellations. Some other genii, described
with more detail, have distinguishing characters,
similar to those ascribed to the genii of the stars,
months, decades, and days, in the Indian and Per­
sian spheres, and the Egyptian calendar.
* It is
not, therefore, rash to presume that these terms
and astronomical allegories were introduced by re­
ligion into the ceremonial ofthe occult science; and
it must be acknowledged they not only tended to
make this study complex, but also to render it ob­
scure ; because the mind involuntarily established
an erroneous connection between the objects alle­
gorically presented and the results, totally foreign
to the religions whence they were derived.
* Sphtsrarum Persicts, indicts et barbaricts ortus, eJi libro Aben
Ezrae Judaeorum doctissimi.—Monomtsriarum ascendentes cumsig-
nificationibus et decanis suis ^Egyptians.—J. Scaligeri, Notts in
Manilium, pp. 371-384 et 487-504.
Borrowed, as it may sometimes have been, from
a language distinct from that of astrology, the mys­
tery would have been not less difficult to penetrate,
nor less fitted to mislead the uninitiated, who might
endeavor to pierce its obscurity. A modern ex­
ample, and one apparently futile, will explain this
remark.
“ Populeam virgam mater regina tenebat.”
If I assert that it is necessary to remember this
Latin verse, in order to insure success in a compli­
Digitized by UooQle
182 MAGIC A RELIC OF OCCULT SCIENCE.
cated trick at cards, persons familiar with this kind
of amusement will readily conjecture that, by their
conventional numerical value, the vowels mark the
number of cards, or points, which it is necessary
consecutively to add, or to cut off. They will easi­
ly conceive that the same means may serve to de­
sign the proportions of substances necessary to
combine in a chemical experiment; and they will
recognize the fact that five or six verses, composed
of barbarous words, and constituting no sense, were
in a similar manner employed, during several ages,
to indicate the different forms that may be taken
by syllogism in argument.
But let us transport ourselves into times when
the intelligence of man was in this manner awa­
kened by any experiment; and we should find in
the verse borrowed from a foreign language, a
magic formulary, similar to those repeated, but not
understood, by the Greeks and the Romans. The
curious will not suspect that its efficacy rests on
the respective position of the vowels; they will
seek it in the sense of the words, if they can attain
a knowledge of them; but ignorance will establish
a mysterious relation between the art of divining
the thoughts, and the Latin line, which may thus
be translated, “ a branch of poplar held by a queen
and a mother.”
Even these obstacles were not sufficient to free
from alarm the jealous uneasiness of the possessors
of the sacred sciences.
From the expressions of several writers, we may
conclude, with probability, that, in the process of
initiation, all the secrets of nature were revealed to
the adept. That these revelations were bestowed
upon him by slow degrees, we may be satisfied by
the example of Apuleius. It was only after a
length of time, and after several successive initia-
Digitized by UooQle
MAGIC A RELIC OF OCCULT SCIENCE. 183
tions, that he arrived at the highest degree ; never­
theless, he congratulated himself on having obtain­
ed, in youth, an honor and a perfection of knowl­
edge usually reserved for old age.
*
Whatever may have been the extent of the
revelations made to the initiated, we may ask, did
the efficient causes of the prodigies form a part of
them? We are inclined to think, that soon after
the institution of the initiations, the knowledge of
these causes was reserved for a class of priests,
who, in several religions, were known as a sepa­
rate body, under a distinct name. Mr. Drummondf
is of opinion that the Chartomi, Egyptian priests,
possessed alone, to the exclusion of the inferior
priests, the knowledge of all the hieroglyphics. We
may also inquire, what was the reason that the
books of Numa, discovered nearly five centuries
after the death of that prince, were burnt at Rome,
as capable of doing injury to religion What
but chance, which, instead of throwing them into
the hands of the priests,
* had first given them to
the inspection of the profane; and the volumes
exposed, in too intelligible a manner, some prac­
tices of the occult science, cultivated by Numa
with success. Two of these books, if we may
credit tradition, treated of philosophy,§ a name
which, it is well known, was often applied, in an­
cient times, to the art of working miracles; and it
was in perusing the memoirs left by Numa, that
his successor, Tullus Hostilius, discovered one of
the secrets of that art: an imprudent experiment,!|
which proved fatal to its possessor.fi
♦ Apul., Metamorph., lib. xi. ad finem.
+ S. W. Drummond, Memoir on the Antiquity of the Zodiacs
of Esneh and Dendera, pp. 19-21. J Valer. Max., lib. i., cap. i., § 12.
6 Tit. Liv., lib. xl., cap. xxix.—Plin.,But Nat., lib. xiii., cap. xiii.
|| See Chapter xxiv.
T Tullus Hostilius was the third King of Rome after Numa.
184 FALSEHOOD THE PROP OF MAGIC.
To these various precautions was added the
solemnity of a terrible oath, the breach of which
was infallibly punished with death. The initiated
were not permitted to forget the long and awful
torments of Prometheus, guilty of having given to
mortals the possession of the sacred fire. Tradition
also relates, that as a punishment for having taught
men mysteries, hitherto hidden, the gods cast
thunderbolts on Orpheus : a fable probably de­
rived from the nature of the death of one of the
priests of the Orphic mysteries, that bore the name
of the founder of the sect.
* Until the downfall of
Paganism, the accusation of having revealed the
secrets of initiation was the most frightful that
could be laid to the charge of any individual, espe­
cially in the minds of the multitude, who, chained
down to ignorance and submission by the spirit of
mysticism, firmly believed, that, were the perjured
revealers permitted to live, the whole nation would
be sacrificed to the indignation of the gods.
Falsehood was another resource and security of
mystery; but this is one familiar in all ages; and,
unhappily, still practiced by the votaries of com­
merce always fearful oflosing the benefits of exclu-
The cause of his death is not precisely known; for although
some suppose that he was killed by lightning, the result of a
magical process, conducted in his palace, yet, others assert that
he was murdered by Ancus Martius, who at the same time set
fire to the palace, in order to originate the belief that the impiety
of Hostilius had been thus punished by Heaven.—Ed.
* Pausanias, Bootie., cap. xxx. Two epigrams of the Antho­
logy suppose that Orpheus died by lightning. It is said there is
some reason for doubting the existence of Orpheus: “ Orpheum
poetam docet Aristotelee nunquam joiste,” says Cicero, although
that orator himself believed in the existence of the musician: but
it is a matter of little moment. The mysteries termed Orphic
were introduced into Greece from Egypt, prior to the worship
of Dionysius, which was also of foreign origin. It is supposed
that the fable of the destruction of Orpheus by the Thracian
women in a Bacchic festival, was merely typical of the victory
of the new over the old religion.—Eu.
digitized by Google
FALSEHOOD THE FEOF OF MAGIC. 185
sive possession.
* The magic art had stronger
reason to disseminate lies regarding the nature and
extent of its power. Had it been openly exposed
and rendered familiar, the admixture of valuable
knowledge, puerilities, and charlatanism, of which it
consisted, could not have commanded either admi­
ration or obedience.
Aglaonice,t having been able to predict an
eclipse at the moment of its occurrence, persuaded
the Thessalians that, by her magical incantations,
the moon was obscured and forced to descend upon
earth.f Such marvelous virtues were ascribed to
the plant named baaras, or cynospastos,^ that it
* The Indians, who alone traded in cinnamon, affirmed that
it was not known whence this aromatic substance came; and
that it was procured by obtaining the nests, constructed of
branches of cinnamon, by particular birds.—jElian, De Nat.
Anim.y lib. ii., cap. xxxiv.; lib. xyii., cap. xxi. The censure of
our author, however, can not be justly applied to modem mer­
chants, who, desirous as they may be to obtain all the advan­
tages which monopoly can secure to them, do not condescend to
employ falsehood to advance their plans and render their specu­
lations successful.—-Ed.
t Aglaonice was the daughter of Hegeman, a Thracian poet,
and versed in astronomy and the doctrine of eclipses.—Ed.
J Plutarch, De Qracul. Defectu.
§ It was also called Aglaophotis. It is the Atropa Mandra­
gora of modem botanists, the Mandrakes of the Old Testament,
for which Rachel bargained with Leah. The grossest super­
stitions are employed in taking up the root of the mandrake; and
its virtues were supposed to depend altogether on the mode in
which this was accomplished. The earth was loosened, and a
cord fastened around the root, with the opposite end tied to the
tail of a dog: the poor animal was then whipped so as to make it
run forward, and thus to drag the root out of the ground. “ In
the mean time,” says Bulleine, speaking of those engaged in
taking it up, they stopp’d their own eares for feare of the
terrible shriek and cry of the mandrack. In whych cry it doth
not only dye itselfe, but the fear thereof killeth the dogge, or
beast which pulleth it out of the earth.”* Shakspeare refers to
this when he makes Juliet exclaim :—
M And shrieks like mandrakes torn of the earth.
That living mortals, hearing them, run mad.”
This belief, and the supposed virtue of the root against barren-
♦ Bulwarks of defense against sickness, 1573, fol. p. 41.
186 FALSEHOOD THE PROP OF MAGIC.
was important for the Thaumaturgists to retain it
entirely for their particular use. Thence sprung
the assertion that it could not be pulled out of the
earth without the loss of life, unless by the employ­
ment of some singular precautions, the details of
which are given by Josephus, with all the gravity
of conviction.
*
Such, in general, was the policy which the Thau­
maturgists employed to mislead men, as to the
manner of attaining their ends, by the use of cer­
tain ostensible proceedings which, in reality, were
altogether indifferent and useless. To throw an ap­
pearance of enchantment and supernatural agency
around operations, often so simple, that apart from
the deceptive covering of fraud and jugglery, and
left open for inspection, they would have been
quickly understood, and easily imitated, by any
one. In short, to load the expression of real facts
with false or futile accessories, or, according to
them, “to hide the discoveries of the toise, from a
multitude unworthy to possess them.”\ These are
the words of Roger Bacon ; they demonstrate that
the same policy existed in the Middle Ages; but
its origin may be traced to the earliest times, in
which men of research were ambitious of securing
for their acquirements a supernatural reputation,4
and an incommunicable nature, in order to exalt
ness afforded ample opportunity for impudent impostors to im­
pose, in an extraordinary manner, on the credulity of the vulgar.
—En.
* Fl. Joseph., De Bell. Judaic., lib. vii., cap. xxiii.—jElian, De
Nat. Animal., lib. xiv., cap. xxvii.
t Qua pkilosophi adinvenerant, in operibue artie et natura, ul ee~
creta occultarent ab mdignie.-^-Rog. Bacon, Desecret:oper. art., cap. i.
J Thus it was asserted, that instructed by a revelation, Eliza­
beth, the wife of Charles I., King of Hungary, in the beginning
of the fourteenth century, discovered the spirit produced by the
distillation of alcohol on rosemary, and known by the name of
Hungary water.—Boquillon, Dictiannaire biographique, tome i„ p.
.by Google
EVIL CONSEQUENCES OF MYSTERY. 187
themselves above ordinary humanity, and to wield
an influence over the rest of mankind.
What were the effects, generally, on the human
mind in the infancy of science, when it was cher­
ished by men of jealous habits, so contrary to the
liberal philosophy of the present day,
* which finds
its noblest gratification in the duty of imparting its
treasures and its discoveries 1
* About two hundred years ago a book was published, showing
that learned works should be written in Latin, and not in French ;
because, says the author, great evils have resulted from the com­
munication of the secrets of science to the people.—Belot, Apolo-
gie de la langue latine^ etc. 1637.
t Discours sur la maniere de traiter VHistoire naturelie.—CEuvres
de Buffon, tome j., pp. 52, 53.
“ The ancients,” says Buffon, “ reduced all the
sciences to practice. All that did not immediately
concern society, or the arts, was neglected ; and,
as they regarded man only in the light of a moral
being, they would not allow that things of no pal­
pable utility were worthy of occupying his atten­
tion.”! This universal precept was applied with
force to the study of the occult science ; but noth­
ing was expected from the knowledge it imparted,
except the power of working miracles ; and all that
did not lead to this result was regarded as unwor­
thy of attention. From such a course, the conse­
quence could only have been the acquirement of a
partial knowledge, accompanied with great igno­
rance in other respects ; and, instead of a science,
whose connected parts so depend upon and sug­
gest one another that the unity of the whole effect­
ually preserves the details from oblivion, every
fact held an isolated position, and ran the risk of
being altogether lost, a danger rendered more prob­
able every day by the increase of mystery.
If any one can remain skeptical regarding these
facts, he may convince himself by reference to the
Digitized by Google
188 EVIL CONSEQUENCES OF MYSTERY.
analogy displayed in the progress of alchemy prior
to the rise of true chemistry. We have there a
type of the empirical manner in which the sciences
were studied, cultivated, and fostered in the ancient
temples. The priests searched after, and some­
times produced, astonishing phenomena ; but neg­
lecting the theory of the processes, and preserving
no record of the means employed, they rarely suc­
ceeded twice in obtaining the same results. Their
great object was to conceal the processes, and to
retain exclusive possession of their secrets. But
what is now less valued than their labors, or less
known than their discoveries ? It is difficult to
cite an example more ancient than eighty years
back. A prince, San Severo, occupied himself,
with some success, in chemical experiments, at
Naples; for example, he had obtained the secret
of penetrating marble with colors, in such a man­
ner, that in cutting plates from it, each newly ex­
posed surface presented a repetition of the colored
figures designed on the exterior.
* In 1761, he
exposed human skulls to the influence of various
reactives, and subsequently to the heat of a glass­
blower’s furnace; but kept so careless an account
of the processes, that, from his own acknowledg­
ment, he could not hope to arrive at the same result
a second time. The product of the last mentioned
experiment was a vapor, or gas, which became
illuminated at the approach of flame, and burned
several months in succession, without any apparent
diminution of the materials (the parts lost by evap­
oration were more than replaced by the combina­
tion ofoxygen during the combustion). San Severo
imagined that he had found the secret of inextin­
guishable lamps; but he would not divulge the
process, lest the vault, in which the princes of his
* Grosley, Observations sur I'llalie, tome iii., p. 251.
Digitized by UooQle
EVIL CONSEQUENCES OF MYSTERY. 189
family were inhumed, should be deprived of the
distinguishing mark with which he hoped to honor
it, namely, that of being lighted by an everlasting
lamp.
* Had he labored like a philosopher of the
present day, the name of San Severo would have
been linked to the important discovery of the
existence of phosphorus in bones ; for it was, un­
doubtedly, the slow escape of phosphorus, in a
gaseous form, that caused the phenomena he ob­
tained. But he operated like a Thaumaturgist,
and his name is forgotten with his works ; while
science gives honor to G-ahn and Scheele, who,
eight years later, in 1769, established the fact, and
published the process, by which phosphorus might
be eliminated from bones.f
The comparison drawn between the early labors
of modern chemists and those of the Thaumatur-
gists fails, perhaps, in one important point. While
the former were free to choose the objects of their
researches, it is doubtful whether, in the temples,
the same liberty was allowed to the latter. We
are led to this conclusion, by an obscure and very
curious passage in Damascius.| At Hierapolis,
in Phrygia, the temple of Apollo was placed near
a cavern abounding with hot springs; whence
arose dangerous exhalations, which extended to a
* See the four letters written by him on the subject, translated
into English, by Christopher Hervey.—Letters from Italy, Ger­
many, 4c., vol. iii., pp. 408-436.
t Bones are composed of phosphoric acid, lime, and some ani­
mal matter. In order to procure the phosphorus, the bones are
calcined, then ground to powder, and acted upon by sulphuric
acid, which takes away a large portion of the lime, and leaves
the remainder combined with a large portion of phosphoric acid.
The super-phosphate is then dissolved in water, and, after tbe
evaporation of the solution, the residue is distilled with charcoal,
which abstracting oxygen, the acidifying principle, from the phos­
phoric acid, phosphorus is formed, and distills over into the re­
ceiver, which contains water kept cold; and in which it con­
geals.—Ed.
t Damascius, Apud Phot, biblioth., eod. 242.
190 EVIL CONSEQUENCES OF MYSTERY.
great distance, and into which the initiated alone
could enter with impunity. One of them, Ascle-
piodotus, by the combination of various substances,
succeeded in producing a gas resembling that of
the sacred cavern.
* “ Thus despising, and rashly
violating, the laws ofthe priests and the precepts of
the philosophers.” Such are the expressions of Da-
mascius; and, in quoting them, may we not exclaim,
how powerful and how awful must have been the
vow of secrecy required of the priests and the phi­
losophers ; since, in the sixth century of the Chris­
tian era, we find Damascius still employing a term
of reproach in recording the scientific imitation of
a natural phenomena, exalted into a miracle by
the spirit of Polytheism !
Thus knowledge, straightened in action, was con­
centrated in a small number of individuals; de­
posited in books, written in hieroglyphics, or in
characters legible only to the adept; and the ob­
scurity of which was further increased by the
figurative style of the sacred language. Some­
times, even die facts were only committed to the
memory of the priests, and transmitted by oral
tradition from generation to generation. They
were thus rendered inaccessible to the community,
because philosophy and chemistry, being destined
to serve a particular object, were scarcely heard
of beyond the precincts of the temples; while the
development of their secrets involved the unveiling
of the religious mysteries. The doctrines of the
Thaumaturgists were reduced, by degrees, to a
collection of processes, which were liable to be lost
♦It is probable that this vapor was sulphureted hydrogen gas,
which can be artificially produced by acting on iron pyrites, with
water, aided by sulphuric acid; and which, although extremely
dangerous to persons introduced for the first time into a concen­
trated atmosphere of it, yet becomes innocuous to those who are
gradually accustomed to breathe it.—Ed.
Digitized by UooQle
EVIL CONSEQUENCES OF MYSTEBY. 191
as soon as they ceased to be habitually practiced.
There existed no scientific bond by the means of
which one science preserves and advances another;
and thus the ill combined doctrines were destined
to become obscure, and finally to be extinguished,
leaving behind them only the incoherent vestiges
of ill understood and ill executed processes.
A condition of things, such as then existed, we
do not scruple to say, is the gravest injury that can
happen to the mind of man, from the veil of mys­
tery cast by religion over physical knowledge.
The labors of centuries and the scientific traditions
derived from the remotest antiquity are lost in
consequence of the inviolable secrecy observed
respecting them; the guardians of science are re­
duced to formularies, the principles of which they
no longer understand: so that, at length, in error
and superstition, they rise little above the multi­
tude, which they too long and too successfully
have conspired to keep in ignorance.
Let us now quit the enlightened caste, which,
from its own act, gradually ceased to merit so
high a title, and place ourselves for a while among
the credulous multitude, whose information was
confined to the fact, that the sublime art of working
miracles was preserved, and incessantly practiced
in the depths of the sanctuaries. Ignorance, su­
perstition, and the love of the marvelous, were
found to exert an unlimited influence over the
greater number; there was nothing that might not
be hoped for, or feared, from these sources. But
in some more energetic minds, curiosity, cupidity,
and pride awakened the wish and the hope of
being able to penetrate the mysteries. This de­
sire rather favored than injured the interests of
those in authority; they, therefore, neglected no
means of encouraging it by amusing credulity, and
Digitized by UooQle
192 EVIL CONSEQUENCES OF MYSTERY.
by holding out exaggerated promises. To the
existence of the hope they were no strangers; and
they so managed, that deceitful information, erro­
neous indications, and false explanations, should
reach the ear of the uninitiated, and mislead the
profane, who might, perhaps, by persevering re­
searches, or by some favorable chance, possibly
stumble on the discovery of some of the sacred
mysteries.
Let us again analyze the correctness o£ these
ideas by experience. To say that chemistry and
astronomy owe their birth to alchemy and astrol­
ogy, and are thus the wise daughters of foolish
mothers, is to judge falsely of the progression of
the human mind. One child, Astronomy, gazes
on the stars as they shine in the heavens, without
imagining that they possess any influence over the
course ofevents passing on earth: the other, Chem­
istry, admires the color and the brilliancy of a piece
of gold or silver; and, if he-is not misled, will no
more imagine that it is within the range of art to
fabricate a metal than to create a piece of wood or
a flint. But when a people, acquainted only with
the native gold deposited in their rivers, saw this
metal extracted from a body displaying no outward
indication of its presence, the belief was natural
that various substances were capable ofbeing trans­
muted into gold by means of a peculiar process,
of which a few superior beings alone possess­
ed the secret. The knowledge of such a won­
derful art being passionately desired by the avari­
cious, caused attempts and inquiries tobe multiplied
and brought to bear on all the metals, on all the
minerals, and on all the various bodies in nature;
and thus Alchemy arose out of the ignorance of
true science. From the observations of the stars,
the return of the seasons, and several meteorologi-
Digitized by UooQle
ANCIENT AfcTRONOMV\ 19ft
cal phenomena, were predicted by the priest.
* He
regulated agricultural labors in a rational manner,
and foretold its probable success with tolerable
exactness. The ignorant men, therefore, under
his direction, set no bounds in their own minds to
the power of science; and doubted not that the
futurity of the moral world, as well as that of the
physical, was to be read on the face of the starry
heavens. In this mistaken idea they were not
undeceived by the priest; and, from the remotest
times, astrology has held a place among the sacred
sciences; and over a portion of Asia it still pre­
serves the empire which it long exercised over the
whole earth.
One cause, already referred to, concurred in the
progress, or in the birth of error: this was the fal­
lacious interpretation of emblems and of allegories.
From the earliest times, both have been taken into
the service of astronomy. Do not the Egyptian
dynasties, cited by Manethon, apparently belong
to the domain of history ? Do not the epithets,
also, which follow their names refer to men ? For
instance, “ Friend ofhisfriends.” “A man remark­
ablefor the strength ofhis limbs.” 11He who increases
the power ofhisfather.” Yet, in these pretended
kings, Dupuis distinguishes the thirty-six decades
which divide the Zodiac into periods of ten de­
grees each; and, in the titles given to them, he sees
the indication of astronomical phenomena, corre­
sponding to each decade.t Under the titles of Bar­
baric, Persian, or Indian spheres, Aben EzraJ has
* The two calendars of Ptolemy were regulated, one accord­
ing to the Egyptian, the other according to the Roman months;
and the Roman calendar, taken from Ovid, Columella, and Pliny,
indicated diurnally the state of the heavens, and predicted that
of the atmosphere.
t Dupuis, Origins de tous les cultes, tom. xii., (in 8vo.) pp.
116-126.
± Abe n Ezra, or Abraham ben Moir ben Ezra, was a learned
I. N
Digitized by Google
194 ANCIENT ANTRONOMY.
collected and published three ancient calendars.
*
The first, believed to be that of Egypt, simply in­
dicates the rising and the setting of the constella­
tions in each decade. The second combines with
this indication various allegorical figures. The
third presents similar figures, and occasionally at­
tributes to them sentiments which can not be ren­
dered by the pencil, such as the intention to assas­
sinate a father, or of returning home. The basis
of the three calendars is the same; but the last,
viewed alone, awakens ideas utterly irrelevant to
astronomy. That similar allegories, distributed
over certain portions of time, may have appeared
to contain predictions referring to each of these
divisions, is highly probable. If we examine an
Egyptian calendar, this probability will be changed
into certainty ;t for, in one column we find, corre­
sponding to each degree of the Zodiac, an emblem
intended, as the title announces, to indicate the
corresponding rising of the stars; and, in the sec­
ond column, we observe the indication of the fu­
ture character or destiny of any child born under
the influence of such or such a degree; an indica­
tion always conforming to the nature of the em­
blem. Thus, if it represents a man bruising in a
mortar, the child would prove laborious; but if an
eagle was the sign, he would rise high, and be of
an ambitious character.
This calendar is evidently the joint production
of two laborers : the one has arranged a series of
astronomical emblems from previous observations;
Jew ofthe twelfth century, who spent a considerable portion ofhis
life in traveling, and was in England in 1159. He wrote a Com­
mentary on the Old Testament, beside treatises on Mathematics,
Physics, Astronomy, and Medicine.—En.
4 J. Scaligeri, Note m M. Afamh'wn, pp. 371-384.
t Mmumariarum aocendmtoo, <fc., J. Scalig., Not. in M. ManiL,
pp. 487-504.
Digitized by C>ooQLe
ANCIENT ASTRONOMY. 195
the othur, deceived or the deceiver, has striven to
divine the meaning of a book, which he did not
understand, or to lead into the paths of error those
who attempted to explain its meaning.
We are too ignorant of the interior philosophy
of the school of Pythagoras to decide whether this
sage professed in its literal, or in its figurative
sense, the strange doctrine regarding the proper­
ties of numbers ascribed to him.
* But we con­
ceive the doctrine itself to have been at first the
allegorical veil, and at a later period the supersti­
tious envelop of a real science; a science, the ves­
tiges of which may still be traced in Hindostan,
where Pythagoras had promulgated his dogmas;
and which, along with the bases of great astronom­
ical calculations, in all probability, comprehended
the principles and theories of a sublime arithmetic.
The somewhat recent discovery of a fragment
of this science tends to support our conjecture.
Toward the end of the seventeenth century, the
French astronomers learned, with surprise, that
there existed in Siam a mode of calculating eclips­
es by successive additions, worked upon numbers
arbitrary in appearance. The key to this method
has been long lost by those who make use of it;
perhaps, indeed, it was never possessed by them,!
* When we reflect upon the just and sublime notions of Pytha­
goras, respecting the motion of the earth, and the nature of
comets, we can not avoid regretting that he should have enter­
tained and taught the extravagant and fanciful speculations on
numbers and harmony which are ascribed to him.—Ed.
+ The great Tables of Logarithms published at Paris, by the
“ Bureau du Cadastre,” had been calculated by a method similar
to this. It was also a succession of additions and of subtrac­
tions, worked on numbers, arbitrary in appearance, by men who
were not under the necessity of knowing the elements and the
march of the calculation necessary to determine these numbers;
and who, nevertheless, arrived at such precise results, that after
the determination of a hundred logarithms, the possible enror
affected only the eighth decimal fraction.
196 PREDICTIONS EFFECTED BY NUMBERS.
the inventor having applied his genius to the con­
struction of an instrument infallible in its results,
while he refused to reveal the principle of its ac­
tion. However that may be, let us suppose a sim­
ilar feeling to actuate the philosophers who opera­
ted, before the eyes of the people, in ancient Asia,
in Egypt, and even in civilized Greece. With
the aid of numbers, combined according to the
principles of a hidden science, it may be seen that
they arrived at prognostications, and uttered pre­
dictions, which nature could not fail to verify on
the day and at the moment indicated. Forced to
attribute to these numbers the property, which, in
fact, they possess, of producing correct predictions,
how could the ignorant man refrain from ascribing
to them other properties, and apparently not more
marvelous qualities? He demanded from them,
as from the courses of the stars which they served
to measure, revelations of the future, and consulted
the Babylonish numbers
* with respect to his fate
in life, as well as the nature and the moment of its
termination. It is not without interest to observe
how the theory of the mysterious properties of
number pervades, in the same manner as in astro­
nomical allegories, the instructions of magic. We
are told that, among the spirits of darkness, the
magicians enumerated seventy-two princes (six
multiplied by twelve), and 7,405,926 demons of an
inferior rank.f This last, apparently absurd num­
ber, is the product of six multiplied by 1,234,321.
Is it necessary to draw observation to the fact,
that 1,234,321, taking it right and left, gives the
four numbers constituting the mysterious Tetractys
of Pythagoras and of Pluto 1
*..................... “ neu Babylonios
Tentaris numeros.................... "
“■ Horat., Od., lib. i., od. xi., vere. 2, 3.
t J. Wierius, De Proestigiu,
Digitized by Gooqlc
THE DIVINING ROD. 197
The divining rod naturally shares the miraculous
fame of numbers; and the Rhabdomantic art, or
divination with the divining rod, was held in honor,
wherever variously marked pieces of wood served
as arithmetical machines. Very complicated cal­
culations were made with pieces of wood by the
Khivans, who were much inclined to believe in the
Rhabdomantic art.
*
* Moor’s Oriental Frag->ntntgrp. 508.
The Rhabdomantic art was practiced among the
Alani and the Scythians,! the ancestors of almost
all the present inhabitants of Tartary ; and also by
the Chaldeans, from whom the Hebrews appear
to have borrowed it.f Such being the case, it is
unreasonable to suppose that this method of divin­
ing with this rod, which can not be explained even
by those who now employ it, may not be traced
back in Asia to an antiquity as remote as the su­
perstition to which it has given rise.§
* N. Mouraviev, Voyage en Twrcomanie et d Khiva.
t Herodot., lib. iv., cap. Ixvii.; Amm. Marcell., lib. xxxi., cap. ii.
The ancient Germans also made use of it. Tacit., German., cap. x.
f Hosea, chap, iv., verse 12. “ My people ask counsel of their
stocks, and their staff declareth unto them.”
<5 The divining rod was also employed as a curative agent;
and passing a child through a cleft ash-tree is still, in Suffolk,
believed to be a remedy for rickets, ruptures, and many other dis­
eases. The stem of a young tree i^gplit for the purpose, and
the child thrice passed through the efeft, which is then bound
up ; and “ the impression is that, as the tree heals of its wounds,
so will the child’s ailment be removed.
* This ceremony was
once performed in the garden of my excellent friend, Major Moor,
the author of the “Hindu Pantheon,” at Woodbridge, in Suffolk.
On the bank of the lake of Killamey is a natural cleft tree,
through which people are once or more passed. Croker, in his
Legends of the Lake, does not overlook this superstition: “Jt is
called the eye of the needle.” “ Sure your honor will thread the
eye of the needle—every one that comes to Innisfalien threads
the needle,” said Plunket, the cicerone of Killarney. “ Pshaw 1”
said I, ” I shall never be able to squeeze through that hole—I am
too fat—beside, what’s the use of it ?” “ The use, sir ? Why, it
will insure your honor a long life, they say. And if your honor
Digitized by Google
198 AMULETS.
It has been truly remarked, that ignorance al­
most universally places error at the side of that
which appears miraculous. By local applications,
medicine has often allayed, and even prevented,
the return of pain in a limb. But the physicians
belonging to the sacred caste led the multitude to
believe that the efficacy of the remedy depended
entirely on the hand that administered it, and which
alone could imbue it with its healing virtue. In
consequence of the belief in this doctrine, the char­
latan was supposed by the credulous to impart to
these beneficial substances, not only the power of
curing existing diseases, but the influence of pre­
serving them from those which were likely to occur
in future. From this successful application of local
remedies, sprungthe beliefofthe supernatural prop­
erties assigned to amulets or talismans.
* Here con-
was a lady in a certain way, there would be no fear of you after
threading the needle.”*—Ed.
* Legends, p. 70. t Pliny, Hist. Nut., xxiv., 19.
* The term amulet is Arabic, and implies any thing suspended.
Thus, a stone, a morsel of amber, a bezoar, a plant, an animal,
a piece of written parchment or paper, hung upon any part of the
body, in the belief that it is capable of preventing disease, or
counteracting poisons, warding off’witchcraft, or any evil which
is likely to attack the wearer, is an amulet. The faith reposed
on amulets was universal in the ancient world, and the belief in
them has outlived most of the olden superstitions. In our time,
the anodyne necklace, which consists of beads turned out of the
root of the white bryony, and which is hung round the necks of
infants, in order to assist their teething, and to ward off the con­
vulsions sometimes incident to that process, is an amulet. In
Turkey various kinds of amulets are still generally worn ; and in
Greece, at the present time, the priests sell to the sick amulets
which are pieces of triangular paper, containing in writing the
name of the disease under which the sick man is laboring, and
which are attached to the door of the sick-chamber.
In ancient times amulets were of two kinds, namely, natural
and artificial. Among the former, Pliny says that any plant gath­
ered on the bank of a river before sunrise, provided the person
who gathers it is unperceived, and tied on the left arm without
the patient knowing what it is, cures ague, and is an amulet.f
Beads of selenite were worn as necklaces by women, and even
Digitized by C.ooQle
SUPERNATURAL POWERS OF AMULETS. 199
troversy again played a part: figures borrowed
from it are traced on many of these amulets ; the
most celebrated, the Abraxas, which is said to de­
rive its virtue from the chief of the good genii,
simply expressed the number of the days of the
year.
Faith in talismans survived the ancient forms of
worship. Even under the dominion of Christian­
ity, an unenlightened piety tended to foster it. It
is related by M. Tiedmann,
* that three Agnus Dei,
with versest expressing their magical virtues, were
sent to the Emperor of Constantinople by Pope
tied to trees to make them fruitful
* In India, many stones and
gems are used as amulets. The turquoise is supposed to avert
the evil eye; but the most remarkable is the ealagrama which is
about the size of a billiard ball, of a black color and usually per­
forated as if by worms. It is supposed to be found only in the
Gandaki, a river in Nepaul, which, according to the followers of
Vishnu, flows from the foot of that deity; but according to the
Saivas, from the head of Siva. The fortunate possessor of this
stone preserves it in a clean cloth, from which it is frequently
taken and bathed, and perfumed. The water with which the ab­
lution is performed acquires a sin-expelling potency, and it is,
therefore, drank and greatly prized. .The ealagrama possesses
many other mysterious powers; and in death it is an essential in­
gredient in the viaticwn. The departing Hindoo holds it in his
hand, and through his confidence in its influence, hope brightens
the future, and he dies in peace.
* Dioeeeridee, lib. v.
Many amulets are believed to possess the power of wardingoff
the blow of the king of terrors; but Lucilius, in one of his epi-
grams, describes a sick man who, having seen a certain physician
in a dream,
....................“ Awoke no more,
Although an amulet he wore.”
The galvanic rings now worn as protections from rheumatism,
and the camphor bags, as guardians of female virtue, are amulets.
Thus we are told that in 1568 the Prince of Orange condemned
a Spanish prisoner to be shot at Juliers. The soldiers tied him
to a tree, and fired, but he was invulnerable. The soldiers, there­
fore stripped him, to see what armor he wore, but they found only
an amulet bearing the figure of a lamb. This was taken from
him, and death followed the first shot aimed at him.—Ed.
* Tiedmann, De Quaetime, <fc., p. 103.
t These verses have been quoted by Fromann, pp. 947, 948.
Digitized by Google
200 SUPERNATURAL POWERS OF AMULETS.
Urban V. After such an instance, can one blame
the ignorant who put their faith in the talismans of
the magician 1 Wherein lies the difference, except
in the mode of consecration ?
Why did the Scandinavians attach to verse the
idea of a magical power ?
* Why did the Greeks
and Romans believe in the power of songs and
verses to cause the destruction of dangerous rep­
tiles, and to draw the moon from the vault of heav­
en If We reply that magical formularies were
originally couched in verse, in a similar manner as
the principles of policy, and of morality, and reli­
gious and historical narratives; and these verses
were always chanted. The Theurgists, deriving
their ceremonial rites from the Egyptian priests or
from the disciples of Zoroaster, did not hold this
opinion. They were ignorant whether some had
or had not expressed themselves in verse; they
were certain that others had not done so; and po­
etry was prohibited by the religion of Egypt, as
being the language of fiction.J Modem sorcerers
have not ascribed magical powers to verse; but
they find virtue in absurd figures, strange charac­
ters, and words of uncouth pronunciation.
* C. V. de Bonstetten, [La Scandinavie et les Alpes, pp. 42-53.
t Virgil, Eclog, viii., v. 69-71.
t Dio. Chrysost., Orat. de Lio non capta.
In the hands of men who either had never been
in possession of, or who had no knowledge of
hieroglyphics, or of sacred language and charac­
ters, the greater proportion of the magical formu­
laries became useless; yet, nevertheless, though
they had ceased to be comprehended, the remem­
brance of their powers was not forgotten. Even
when meaning was no longer attached to the terms
mysteriously recited, or those graven on stones, or
written on parchment, perhaps a greater reverence
Digitized by UooQle
BOOKS BELIEVED TO BE SPIRITS. 201
was conceded to them because their origin and the
measure of their real virtue were not suspected.
It is thus that errors arise, and become extended.
The Hindoos affirm that “ each letter is governed
by an angel, an emanation of the virtue of God’s
omnipotence; and these angels are represented by
the letters which compose the oration, or form of
incantation, by which miracles are to be wrought.
*
With what facility, aided by such a doctrine, has
the impostor been able to defraud the credulous
in the sale ofamulets; some composed ofthe letters
expressing a prayer, or a vow; some inscribed with
strange or absurdly grouped characters; their effica­
cyindeed becominggreaterin proportion to the com­
plicated and extraordinary aspect of the writing.”t
A missionaryhaving written a vocabulary of
the native language in Louisiana, frequently re­
ferred to it, in order to answer the questions of
those who addressed him. The natives believed
this paper to be a spirit, which communicated to
the missionary all his knowledge. The Nadofissis
are, though able to count, ignorant of ciphers.
• Mills et une Nuits, tome i., pp. 128,129 (14e Nuit).—Hitt,
fu Brame, Pad. Manaba.
f The wo^d Abracadabra, written as below, is still employed
to cure agues, by what the ignorant call a charm, and in which
they have the utmost confidence
Abracadabra
bracadabra
racadabra
acadabra
■
*
cadabra
a d ab r a
d a b r a
a b r a
bra
r a
a
Indeed, such is the influence of the imagination over the body,
that the sincere belief of the credulous in the efficacy of this
charm is adequate to effect a cure.—Ed.
t P. Hennepin, Description de la Louinane, pp. 249, 250.
Digitized by Go .glc
202 BOOKS BELIEVED TO BE SPIRITS.
Carver,
* opening a book before them, told them
exactly how many pages there were between the
beginning and the page which he showed them;
they immediately concluded that the book was a
spirit, which dictated answers to the traveler. At
Kano, in Africa, Clapperton met with a person
who believed that the traveler had the power of
transforming men into beasts, and the earth into
gold, simply by the act of reading a book.! The
Runic lettersj were numbered with other magical
agents, so soon as this species of writing was lost
to the vulgar. An algebraic formula would be
similarly regarded by the superstitious, if they be­
held an undeniable solution to questions appa­
rently widely different, furnished by its aid; and
in which they could not discern the point, common
to all, which the science had seized upon.§
* Carver, Travels in South America.
t Travels in Africa, vol. iii., p. 37.
t Runic letters constituted the ancient alphabet of the Teu­
tonic and Scandinavian tribes. It cohsisted of sixteen letters,
which are supposed to have been of Phoenician origin. They
were cut on stones; and those specimens of them which remain
have much similarity to the portions of wood, or sticks, which
were anciently employed in casting events by the Germans; and
in this similarity, most probably, originated the magical proper­
ties ascribed to the Runic letters.—Ed.
$ The notation of music would undoubtedly appear super­
natural to a people having no idea of it, were a man to repeat
exactly one of their songs which he had never heard before, but
which he possessed the power of noting down.
The extravagance of credulity causes steps still
more surprising than those already mentioned to
take place. In the provinces situated to the east
of the Baltic, which by force of arms and political
stratagem have been united to the empire of Rus­
sia, it is firmly believed, that if a woman with child
introduces a piece of wood into the stove, in a
direction opposite to the growth of the branches,
the infant will be presented in an unnatural direc­
Digitized by UooQle
MYSTERY IN SCHOOLS OF PHILOSOPHY. 203
tion at the moment of birth.
* Sometimes the
credulous man, ignorant of hieroglyphics, has be­
lieved that, by imitating, as far as he could do so,
the postures represented in the hieroglyphics, he
could work the apparent miracle which, at an un­
known period, was obtained by the process de­
scribed by them. Ofthis we find several examples
in the collection of Gaffarel.f
We believe it is allowable to refer to error, or
to reveries of this nature, the origin of universally
held or popular opinions, sometimes so strange ana
so absurd that we can neither divine their mean­
ing, nor assign to them a plausible pretext or mo­
tive. Causes, with respect to the nature of which
men have been always profoundly ignorant, have
exerted, and continue to exert, an influence over
their existence.
CHAPTER IX.
Notwithstanding the Rivalry of religious Sects, the Spirit of a
fixed Form of Civilization existed.—Mystery in the Schools of
Philosophy was ultimately banished by the Influence of more
perfect Civilization.—In the first Epoch there was an habitual
Communication of the Greeks with the Successors of the Magi,
who were dispersed through Asia after the Death of Smerdis:
1st. The Revelation ofMagic; 2d. The Impoverishing of Egypt
after the Conquest of the Romans caused Priests of inferior
Grades, who trafficked in the Secrets of the Temples, to abound
in Rome; 3d. The Polytheists, who were converted to Christ­
ianity, carried into its Bosom the Knowledge of the Magic
which they possessed.—In the second Epoch, the Remains only
of the Sacred Science existed: 1st. In the Schools of the The-
urgian Philosophy; 2d. In the Possession of wandering Priests,
and, above all, of Egyptian Priests. As Successors to the for­
mer may be assigned, with much probability, the Secret Soci­
eties of Europe; to the latter, the modem Jugglers.
The mystery which had enveloped the sacred
science, like the type of civilization, of which it
* Debray, <Sur la prejugee et lee ideee euperetitieueee dee Live
*
Kiene, $c.—Ntnmellee Annalee dee Voyagee, tome xviiL, p. 127.
t Gaflarel, Curioeitee inomee, 4-c-, chap, vii., 5 1 et 2.
■
204 MYSTERY IN SCHOOLS OF PHILOSOPHY
*
was one of the principal foundations, has submitted
to the power of time: the veil is tom from it; the
statue of silence, seated for so many centuries be­
fore the door of the sanctuaries and of the philo­
sophic schools, has been overthrown.
We may inquire, when was this revolution
effected ? Was it when rival religions were at
war with each other; before the inflexible Zoroas­
ter and his successors, and the worship of fire, and
Sabaism,
* and the adoration of Siva, Vishnu, and
Bramah, had received a check ? I reply, no. Per­
secuted as magicians, the Hindoo and the Chaldean
priests carried their sacred arts, and their invio­
lable silence, into exile.
The invasion of the Hebrews had dispersed the
pagan priests of Canaan—Moses having declared
sentence of death against whoever should declare
oracles, or work miracles, in the name of a strange
god. But the entire conquest of Palestine was
but slowly achieved. The Hebrews, unfaithful to
the law, and living among indigenous tribes, often
consulted the priests and the diviners of their
neighbors. The diviners, in particular, were re­
nowned, and even revered; and, when they died,
bequeathed their secrets to adepts only, who often
found in them a source of wealth and of profit, if
not the means of obtaining power. Their last suc­
cessors may be recognized in those whom Saul
persecuted with so much zeal, that, when he fell
himself into the error from which he had wished
* The word, correctly written, should be Tsabaistn. It was a
religious system prevalent to a great extent in Arabia, in which,
although one supreme deity was acknowledged, yet adoration
was paid to all the stars, or the lower divinities supposed to re­
side in them, and to aid in governing the world. Tneir religious
books were written in Syriac. Their fasts and prayers were nu­
merous ; they believed in future punishments for the wicked, but,
at the same time, that after four thousand years they should be
pardoned.—Ed. .
Digitized by UooQle
MYSTERY IN SCHOOLS OF PHILOSOPHY. 205
to preserve his people, he with difficulty found a
woman who professed the art of invoking the
shades of the dead.
In Judea, these pretended prophets were divided
among themselves, and were at variance with each
other: some espousing the rival claims of Jerusa­
lem ; others those of Samaria; but neither anathe­
ma nor persecution could unveil the sources from
which their inspirations flowed in the time of need.
The fierce Cambyses, in killing Apis, insulted
the supreme god of Egypt, typified by that sacred
bull. He condemned the priests and the worship­
ers of Apis to the torture, and despoiled the tem­
ples. He died, leaving behind him an execrable
name, without having, notwithstanding so much
violence, struck one blow at the religious myste­
ries of the sanctuaries.
*
The spirit of the fixed type hovered over the
theaters of these diverse events, and permitted only
one new light to shine in the eyes of the people,
who themselves never desired any thing further.
For several centuries, however, a revolution, of
which neither the cause, the activity, nor even the
existence had been suspected, was gradually taking
* This conqueror was well aware of the height of superstition
which enslaved the people whom he sought to subdue. It is
even said that, knowing the veneration in which the dog and the
cat were held by the Egyptians, when he attacked Pelusium, he
placed a number of these animals in the front of his army, and by
this means easily became master of the place. In his attempt to
send an army of fifty thousand men into Upper Egypt, in order
to destroy the temple of Jupiter Ammon, his object was defeated
by the overwhelming of the troops in a whirlwind of sand, a cir-
cmnstance which was attributed to the vengeance of the god
whose sanctuaiy was threatened. An oracle predicted that he
should die at Ecbatana; and, by a remarkable coincidence, his
death occurred at a small town of that name, from a wound which
he received from his own sword, when mounting on horseback.
It happened in the year 521, b.c. He left no issue; and his
throne was usurped by the Magi, whom, during his lifetime, he
had severely persecuted.—Ed.
Digitized by Go - e
206 MYSTERY IN SCHOOLS OF PHILOSOPHY.
place among the inhabitants of the earth; and
which five-and-thirty or forty centuries have not
been able to overturn. In the colonies, which the
Phoenician navigators had founded on distant
shores, they had introduced, unknown to them­
selves, the germ of progressive civilization. Too
wealthy and too much occupied by mercantile
interests to desire to subjugate by force of arms,
and too little instructed to found civilization upon
religion and sacred science, they were contented
to blend their own customs with those of the tribes
among whom they settled for commercial purposes.
It may be said, that man, for the first time, then
learned that the mode of life which he had received
from his ancestors might be ameliorated by the
result of his free will, and not by a course of blind
obedience to assumed supernatural beings. Curi­
osity is the first effect of the desire for mental per­
fection ; and when this is even moderately satisfied,
it teaches us to appreciate the value of knowledge,
and does not relax in the pursuit, from the convio
tion that it must be sought for and obtained from
distant sources. A long voyage does not alarm the
philosopher impatient to instruct himself; never­
theless, he is not always able to break the seal of
mystery. The instructions obtained in India, Chal­
dea, and in Egypt, bound the ancient sages, as far
as we can judge, to particular opinions indepen­
dent of theoiy. Thales, indeed, was enabled to
predict an eclipse, but only one ;
* and Pythagoras
* There is much reason for believing that Chaldea was the
cradle of astronomy, the origin of which has been fixed at a pe­
riod so remote as two thousand two hundred and thirty
*
two
years before the birth of our Savior. The astronomical learning
was obtained from Chaldea; and, in every problem of difficulty,
the Egyptians were forced to have recourse to the assistance of
the Chaldean astronomers. But what La Place has designated
as the most ancient monument of astronomical knowledge,
namely, the invention of the period of seven days of the week,
Digitized by UooQle
MYSTERY IN SCHOOLS OF PHILOSOPHY. 207
found, by force of genius alone, the demonstration
of the theorem that had been revealed to him, of the
equality of the square ofthe hypothenuse to the sum
of the squares of the two other sides of the rectan­
gular triangle. Philosophers, beside, looked upon
themselves as the initiated ; the pride of exclusive
possession exalted them like their insdtutors: and
the disciples of Pythagoras received his revelations,
not in proportion to their capacity, but according
to the elevation in rank to which they had attained
in a doctrine, which, like the initiations, had its
prefixed duration, its language, and its proofs. It
was only by gradual steps, and by the exterior
influence of progressive civilization, that the same
discretion which regulated the temples ceased to
govern the schools of philosophy.
Thus, even in those countries where protect­
ing civilization showered down its blessings abun-
is said to be due to the Egyptians.
* It is, nevertheless, remarka­
ble, that the names of the days among the Bramins, are the
same as those in Egypt, and correspond to the same physical por­
tions of time. Thales, who was a native of Miletus, in Ionia,
acquired, according to the custom of his day, the greater part of
his knowledge by traveling, and was taught geometry and as­
tronomy by the priests of Memphis. He soon, however, outstrip­
ped his instructors in the race of knowledge ; and, by the mere
force of his genius, invented several fundamental propositions
which were afterward incorporated into the Elements of Euclid.
There is little doubt that the true doctrine of the motion of the
earth was promulgated in the schools of Thales and Pythagoras;
and it is equally certain that Thales introduced into Greece the
prediction of solar eclipses, and the explanation of their real
cause ;t although it has, with much probability, been supposed
that the method of working the problem was borrowed from the
Chaldeans, who were enabled to arrive at it by an extensive se­
ries of observations, conducted with great care and regularity,
which they possessed. Thales also corrected the Greek calen­
dar, and determined the length of the year to be three hundred
and sixty-five days. He died in the ninety-sixth year of his age,
about five hundred and forty-eight years before Christ: one proof,
among a thousand, that the exercise of the mental energies is
favorable to longevity.—Ed.
* Syrt. du Monde, 1. v., c. 1. f Plutarch, De Placit. Philosophy 1. ii., p. 24,
Digitized by Go e
208 MYSTERY IN SCHOOLS OF PHILOSOPHY.
dantly, where the cultivation of the art of writing
and the sciences opened the way for brilliant fame,
the doctrines of the sanctuaries and the occult sci­
ence, that had emigrated from Thrace or Egypt,
remained impenetrable. The priests maintained
around them the most profound obscurity, the dens­
ity of which was proportioned to the power and the
veneration which they could obtain.
Demosthenes is the first author who noticed the
existence of sorcerers in Greece.
* At that time
occult science had ceased to be centered in the
temples : and some shreds of it had fallen into the
hands of profane and obscure men, who were com­
plete strangers to the sacred mysteries, and who had
dared to profess the art of working miracles. We
must retrace more than thirty-five lusters, and
racall to recollection one of the most remarkable
events of ancient history, the massacre of the Magi,
after the fall of Smerdis,! in order to assign the
cause of this fact. This sacerdotal tribe, very nu-
* Demosthen. in Aristogit., 1; M. Tiedmann, De Qtuzetione, <fc.,
p. 46.
t Smerdis was the name of the brother of Cambyses, who was
privately put to death by the order of that monarch, and who was
represented after his death by an impostor of the same name,
wno greatly resembled him in person. This Smerdis, the im­
postor, was one of the Magi, and the person referred to m the
text. He had been deprived of his ears by Cyrus, on account of
some atrocity which he had committed. On the death of Cam­
byses, he usurped the throne, under the cover of his resemblance
to the real Smerdis, whose death was only known to him. The
fraud, however, was suspected, and discovered by Phsedyma,
one of the wives of the late monarch, who, at her father’s re­
quest, took an opportunity of examining the head of the usurper
when he was asleep, and ascertained that he had no ears. A
conspiracy was immediately formed, which accomplished not
only his destruction, but terminated in the massacre of the Magi,
and the elevation of Darius to the throne of Persia. The term
Magi is of Greek derivation, and implies men devoted to study
and meditation; but my friend, Major Moor, suspects it is
derived from the Sanscrit Mahaji, and means great, or wise
men.—Ed.
Digitized by UooQle
ORIGIN OF THE NAME MAGIC. 209
xnerous and very powerful, could not be entirely
annihilated. It was dispersed, without doubt, to
all parts; and when the political views of Darius
made him anxious to reassemble it, we may be­
lieve that all the Magi were not equally desirous
of becoming the supporters of the assassin. To
these fugitives successors were often found among
men born in a period of higher civilization, espe­
cially among the Greeks, scattered over the vast
empire of Persia, as commanders and soldiers in
the auxiliary troops of Darius, governors of his
provinces, and active agents of commerce in his
ports, who, in the center of Asiatic Greece, and
under the yoke of the great king, maintained both
the culture and the idiom of European Greece,
with the spirit of perfectible civilization.
* To these
they transmitted their hatred and their secrets.
The subsequent events, and the war of Cyrus
the younger against Artaxerxes, above all, the
ascendency which the King of Persia had obtained
over Greece, both during and after the Peloponne­
sian war, had increased the intimate communica­
tion between the Greeks and the interior of the
empire. They admired the wonders performed by
the Magi, and from the name of these priests they
gave the title of magic to the art of working mira­
cles ; and this title soon became sufficiently cele­
brated for Euripides to impose it on the celestial
inspiration with which Orpheus had been animated.
The Greeks in Persia, both curious and rapacious,
♦ A powerful evidence supports our assertion—if the poem
attributed to Phocylides was really written by that author, and
in which he says, “ Abstain from the books of the Magi” (verse
138). He was born at Miletium, in Asiatic Greece, 637 b.c.
According to Suidas, Phocylides must have written his moral
precepts at a mature age, and consequently when the fugitive
Magi were twenty or thirty years in communication with the
Greeks of Asia.
I. o
Digitized by Google
210 EXTENSION OF KNOWLEDGE OF MAGIC.
drew near to the proscribed Magi and their de­
scendants, and profited, without doubt, by the fre­
quent occasions that they had of instructing them­
selves ;
* so that, on returning to Greece, they were
enabled to carry on a lucrative trade, by employ­
ing the secrets they had acquired for the purposes
of vengeance and wickedness.!
* The communications of the Magi with the philosophers
of Greece soon became frequent. Plato, in one of his dialogues,
(in Axiocho), introduces the Magus Gobry, as revealing religious
secrets to Socrates.
t One learned man whom I have already mentioned, M. G. C.
Horst, states, in his Bibliotheque Magique, and has proved, that
Italy and Greece received from Asia, and from the followers
of the two principles (that is to say, the worshipers of Ormusd
and his opponent Arniman), the magic doctrines which were
gradually blended with the ancient mythology, founded in both
countries upon the worship of divine nature. It will be seen
that this opinion relates to the time when the doctrines of magic
had penetrated into the temples, an epoch much anterior to the
period when the magic arts ceased to be concentrated there.
t Theocrit., Eidyll. ii., v. 160.. '
The conquests of Alexander established the
power of the Greeks over those parts of Asia,
where every temple had its pecular mysteries;
while the numerous priests of Phrygia and of
Syria threw open their sanctuaries to the conquer­
ors, and were eager to initiate them into their
creeds.
The second Idyl of Theocritus presents a picture
of a conjuration or enchantment, worked by an or­
dinary female; thus showing that the use of magic
had, long before that period, been practiced by the
Greeks. The Idyl concludes with the threat of
poisoning, which it is the object of the magical
incantation to effect.^ The simple idea is thus
succeeded by one of superstition; and the language
peculiar to the temples, in the expression of the
fact which alone had been employed by the Greeks
before their intercourse with a people, governed
Digitized by UooQle
PRESERVATION OF EGYPTIAN FAITH. ‘211
by the depositaries of the occult science. An atro­
cious crime was, therefore, no longer to be regard­
ed as the work of man, but as the result of the
intervention of supernatural beings. In the same
manner, Theocritus transforms Agamede, a woman
celebrated for her knowledge of medicine, into a
sorceress.
The religion of Egypt, which Cambyses had
attacked in vain, and which had never been dis­
turbed by Alexander,
* was preserved and honored
by the Ptolemys; and, as masters of Egypt, the
Romans allowed it to reign in peace over their
new subjects. But external wars, and internal
'feuds, had ruined the people, and impoverished the
temples. The ancient religion of the country, like
the country itself, languished under the influence
of a foreign yoke. The priesthood was no longer
* The peaceable possession of their religion, and the sacred
•mysteries which Alexander conferred upon the Egyptians after
. his conquest of Egypt, arose, in a great measure, from the adula­
tion paid by the priests to the conqueror. On visiting the temple
of Jupiter Ammon, he bribed the priests to salute him as the son
of their god; and, through their influence, his army was induced
to pay him divine honors. It is also well known that, after he
overcame Darius, he ordered himself to be worshiped as a god;
and when Callisthenes, a philosopher of Olynthus, who accom­
panied him as a preceptor in bis Oriental expedition, and to
whom he had been recommended by Aristotle, refused to degrade
himself by obeying this command, the unfortunate philosopher
was accused of a conspiracy, mutilated, exposed to wild beasts,
and dragged about in chains, until Lysimachus relieved him
of his persecutions by giving him poison. We can readily con­
ceive that an individual spoiled by a successful career of glory,
•such as fell to the lot of Alexander, and elated with such a de­
gree of pride as led him to assume divine honors, would not; only
■protect but warmly patronize a fraudulent priesthood, who might
aid in securing the object of bis ambition. The most curious fact
in the history of this great and bad man is, the part which the
priests most probably played in causing his death, which oc­
curred exactly as the Magi had predicted, on his entering the
city of Babylon, after his Indian expedition, loaded with the
spoils of the East. His death happened in the month of April,
1383 b.c., in the thirty-second year ot his age, and was very likely
the effect of poison.—Ed.
Digitized,
212 DECLINE OF POLYTHEISM.
tbe first body in the state: it had lost too much of
its dignity, its power, and its riches, to preserve its
numerous hierarchy unsullied. On this account,
oppressed by want, priests of inferior orders re­
paired in crowds to the capital of the world ; and,
to the superstition and credulity already almost
predominant there, they added jugglery and ora­
cles. The enlightened classes of the people had
the same contempt for these sacred mendicants as
for those who flocked from Syria and from Phrygia.
Occupied with other interests of too much impor­
tance, and nourished with too independent a phi­
losophy, the cotemporaries of Cicero
* and of
Caesar held the Thaumaturgian subalterns in little
or no estimation.
The multitude, doubtless, still followed them,
when, for a few pieces of money, they displayed
their juggling in the public places, and engaged
the attention of the people by oracles, cures, and
wonderful apparitions :t but the general improve­
ment of intellect could not fail to increase the
degradation of the sacred science. The prodigies
that it had formerly offered to the public venera­
tion, now encountered many skeptics; and when
a miracle is either denied or discussed, the little
reality that it possesses enables the fraud to be
easily unveiled. The priests, whose tact had been
successful in upholding their deceptions under a
fixed form of civilization, soon experienced how
much their influence was lessened under a civiliza­
tion which was progressive. They strove with
* To Cicero has been attributed the remark, “ that two aurus-
pices, or augurs, can not pass each other in the street without
thrusting their tongues into their cheeksbut
Faith—fanatic faith—once wedded fast
To some dear falsehood, hugs it to the last—Ed.
+ Origen, Contr. Celsum, lib. l; Plutarch, Cur nunc Pythia nn
edit oracula carmine.
Digitized by Google
DECLINE OF POLYTHEISM. 213
difficulty against the latter, chiefly because its in­
fluence was founded upon an extension of knowl­
edge. The oracles were silenced; prodigies be­
came more rare, and the obscurity ofthe sanctuaries
and the mysticism of superstition alike diminished,
when the triumph of Christianity imparted a new
impulse to the mind, and propagated a higher creed.
Behold, on one side, the temples destroyed; the
priests dispersed ; some doomed to ignominy and
to indigence, and others reduced at last to traffic
for their livelihood with the sacred science : and
on the other side, persuasion, enthusiasm, interest,
ambition, and persecution at last, causing number­
less desertions from the old faith, while they aug­
mented the ranks of the proselytes under the ban­
ners of the new religion; among these proselytes
there were many who were ready and desirous of
carrying with them those secrets of magic which
belonged to the different creeds that they had aban­
doned. The miracle which dispersed the work­
men, sent by Julian to raze the Temple of Jerusa­
lem, proved that the Christians also were tainted
with the knowledge of the processes which the
ancient Thaumaturgists had used with such brill­
iant success.
* Then, the old religion received a
* The great efforts which the Emperor Julian made at thia
time to restore Paganism in all its brilliancy and power, proved
unavailing; not on account of any deficiency of talent, or feeble
*
ness of energy in that extraordinary man, but because the faith
which be was anxious to press was destitute of theological prin­
ciples and moral precepts. It was the object of that emperor to
remedy these defects ; and laws were enacted to reform morals,
and to promote the practice of benevolence and charity, which
he was wise enough to admire in the Christians. But this was
impossible; the union of fraud and truth could never be effected;
and while the priests of restored Paganism were selected from
among the philosophers and Magi, who were deeply skilled in
magic and divination, and who dealt openly in impostures, it was
impossible to oppose the progress of the new faith, based upon
truth and purity of morals. It is, nevertheless, melancholy to
reflect upon the apostasy of many Christians, who, from mere
Digitized b
214 DECLINE OF POLYTHEISM;
mortal blow: its adversaries could combat it with
its own weapons, or unveil to the day the weak­
ness of its impostures.
As long as Polytheism existed, detested but not
yet proscribed by supreme authority—as long as
its temples stood, or their recent ruins recalled a
worship to which so many recollections were at­
tached, the most earnest endeavor of its adversa­
ries was to demonstrate the falsehood of its mira­
cles, as well as the absurdity of its dogmas. But
gradually the ivy and moss covered the rubbish, in
the midst of which persevering zeal no longer re­
assembled its worshipers. Habit, the course of
things, and necessity, drove whole populations into
prudential motives, embraced the religion of their sovereign.
The crafty monarch even went so far as to dream of rebuilding
the Temple of Jerusalem, which was not only “ destroyed by the
arms of Titus and Hadrian, but a ploughshare had been drawn
over the ground, as a sign of perpetual interdiction.”* He hoped
to establish in it all the ceremonials of an imposing faith, which
should eclipse those of the Church of the Resurrection on the
adjacent hill of Calvary. The Jews assembled to aid this object,
intent alone on exasperating the Christians, without reflecting on
the ultimate aim of the emperor. It was on this occasion when
the workmen of Julian and the infatuated Jews, were equally
engaged in clearing away the ruins of the former edifice, and
founding the new temple, that an earthquake, a whirlwind, and a
fiery eruption, destroyed the enthusiastic laborers, scattered the
foundations of the projected edifice, and overthrew forever the
triumphs and hopes of Polytheism. Our author has raised some
doubts respecting the supernatural character of this event; but it
was not at the time disputed by the infidels ;t and notwithstand­
ing the skepticism of Gibbon, and the doubts of the pious Dr.
Lardner,f there is not the smallest evidence to prove that it was
the result of artifice or of occult science. “ The horrible balls
of fire,” says Ammianus Marcellinus, “bursting forth near the
foundations, with frequent reiterations, rendered the place from
time to time inaccessible to the scorched and blasted work­
men ...” and “ the undertaking was abandoned.”^—Ed.
* Gibbon’s Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire, 2d edit., vol. iv.,
p. 100.
t Gregory Nazianzen, Orat. iv., p. 110.
[ Ammianus Marcellinus, xxiiii., xxiv.
$ Jewish and Heathen Testimonies, vol. iv., pp. 47—71.
Digitized by UooQle
DECLINE OF POLYTHEISM. 915;
the new faith: they ceased to combat that which
they had ceased to disbelieve; they ceased to arm
themselves against that reason which one day might
extend itself beyond the end prescribed to its ef­
forts. The remains of the sacred science then
rested in the hands of two classes of men, very
different from one another.
To priests of a superior order, to the enlighten­
ed disciples of the sages of Babylon, of Etruria,
of Persia, of Egypt, and of Hindostan, were united
the successors of the Theurgian philosophers, who,
since the second century, had attempted to raise
up Polytheism by transforming its legends into
moral allegories, and its impostures into divine
acts, effected at the commands of virtuous men,
through the celestial powers. All of them together
professing the ancient Polytheism less than the
worship of one divinity, which they adored under
a thousand different names in different religions,
opened the schools of philosophy to the Christians;
who, being the friends of knowledge, believed
themselves permitted to search for it. A Platonic
theosophy, with austere and exalted morals, form­
ed the foundation of the doctrines. But they re­
vered also the memory of men who had been, in
consequence of their piety, in communication, as
they believed, with supernatural beings, and had
obtained the gift of miraculous works. The just
dread of hearing their miracles discussed, denied,
or vilified, by their too powerful adversaries, re­
animated the ancient spirit of mystery; and they
made it a religious duty, more than ever, to be
silent on all that they still possessed of their knowl­
edge. Synesius
* bitterly reproaches one of his
* Synesius was bom at Cyrene, in Africa, in the year three
hundred and seventy-eight. He attached himself to the school
of the New Platonists, but was converted to Christianity when
216 DECLINE OF POLYTHEISM.
friends for having revealed to uninitiated auditors
a part of the secret doctrine of the philosophers.
*
The entire work of Lydus upon prodigies, and the
passage that we have quoted from DamasciusJ
prove how far the two latter believed themselves
still strictly bound by their promises of silence.^
The initiated of Memphis,§ the disciples of the
little more than twenty years of age, by Theophilus. Bishop of
Alexandria. He was a most remarkable man, both for learning
and piety; and although, after his conversion, be still retained a
fondness for the New Platonism, yet, Theophilus urged him to
permit him to consecrate him for a bishopric. The entreaties of
the bishop were long resisted, on account of the affection he bore
for his wife; but he at length yielded, was separated from her,
and became Bishop of Ptolemais in 410. He was the author of
many curious and learned disquisitions.—Ed.
♦ Synes, p. 143.
f Damascius, the stoic. He was a native of Damascus, and
wrote several works, some of which are now lost. Those writ­
ings by which he is best known are four book
* on extraordinary
events which occurred in the age of Justinian.—Ed.
t The trace of this custom ofmystery is found at a much later
period. It was only in the twelfth century that Tzetzes and Zo-
naras revealed the secret of the mirror of Archimedes, although
this mirror had been employed by Proclus, at the beginning of
the sixth century, to bum the fleet of Vitellius, who besieged
Constantinople.
§ Memphis, situated on the banks of the Nile, near the Pyra
*
mids, was the capital of Egypt before Alexandria was built, and
contained the Temple of Apis, the ox-god, the type of Osiris,
whose soul the Egyptians believed passed into the body of an ox.
The great festival of this god was performed with the most mag­
nificent ceremonies at Memphis, at the commencement of the
annual inundation of the Nile, and lasted seven days. The ox,
selected to represent the god, was distinguished by particular
marks, which were, most probably, the ingenious productions of
the priests: the whole animal was black, except a white cres­
cent, or a mark resembling the figure of a man, on the right
side; and on the back, the figure of an eagle; on the forehead
was a white, square spot; under the tongue a knot resembling
a beetle; and the hairs of the tail were double. This ox was
led in solemn procession, and having made the round of the city
in order that those who smelled his breath might gain a knowl­
edge of futurity, and after a variety of other absurd ceremonies,
he was led to the river, and if he had attained to twenty-five
years of age, he was drowned, and a new Apis elected. On this
occasion, although the god was purposely drowned, the priests
shaved their heads as an indication of mourning; cries and 1am-
Digitized by UooQle
DECLINE OF POLYTHEISM. 217
Etruscan priests, could not have held a more re­
served language.
In noticing the philosophic dogmas, we shall be
able to follow into Greece, ana then into Italy,
entations resounded through the city; and these continued until
a new Apis, with all the characteristic marks, was found. This
new representative of Osiris had to perform a probation of forty
days, before being initiated in all his dignities; during which
time women only administered to him.
Bull and kine worship passed into Egypt from Hindostan, and
it is still retained in the East; for Siva rides upon a white bull,
called Handi; and Brahmany, or sacred hulls, are seen wandering
unmolested in all the cities of Hindostan. But tbe most curious
circumstance relating to bovine worship, is tbe fact that it was
practiced in England in the fifteenth century: another proof,
among many, of the difficulty of shaking offold habits, and a ver­
ification of the remark, that the early Christians had ingrafted
some of tbe abominations of Paganism on their ritual. Major
Moor, in his Oriental Fragments, p. 516, has given the following
translation of a register of the monastery of St. Edmundsbury,
contained in a volume entitled Corolla noria, by the Rev. William
Hawkins, of Hadleigh, Suffolk, printed at Cambridge, 1634.
“This indenture certifies, that Master John Swabsham, sa­
crist, with the consent of the prior and convent, demise and let to
...............................tbe.manor called Habyrden in Bury, and the said
.........................................his executors, tec., shall find, or cause to
be found, one White Bull, every year of his term, so often as it
shall happen that any gentlewoman (mulierem generosum), or any
other woman, from devotion, or vows by them made, shall visit
the tomb of the glorious martyr St. Edmund, to make the oblation
of tbe said white bull, etc. Dated, the 4th of June, in the second
year of Heniy VII. (a.d. 1487.)” Two other indentures, nearly
similar, are of the eleventh and twenty-fifth of Henry VIII. Now,
the worthy Mr. Hawkins informs us, that when a married woman
wished to make this oblation, “ the white bull, who was never
yoked to the plough, nor baited, was led in procession through
the principal streets of the town, to the principal gate of the mon­
astery, attended by all the monks singing, and a shouting crowd:
the woman walking by him, and stroking his milk-white sides,
and pendent dewlaps. The hull being then dismissed, the woman
entered the church, and paid her vows at the altar of St. Edmund,
kissing the stone, and entreating with tears the blessing ofa child.”
It is not easy to say how many other equally ridiculous pagan su­
perstitions deformed the purity of Christianity before this period.
I will mention one only at present. When Clovis, the first Chris­
tian King of France was baptized, the vial containing the sacred
unction was stated to have been dropped from heaven into the
hands of St. Remigius, then Bishop of Rheims, about tbe end of
the fifth century ; where it has ever since been preserved for the
l^le
o
218 DECLINE OF POLYTHEISM.
after the capture of Constantinople, the traces of'
the existing influence of the schools. This will be,
however, less easy in all that concerns occult sci­
ence ; the founders of the school certainly possess­
ed it, but its transmission is only probable. How
many accidents might have buried it in the mys­
tery from which it must have escaped, but for the
great precautions that were observed to secure it!
Some facts remain, however, to shed a little light
upon this interesting problem.
The doctrines of the Theurgists, which trans­
formed into supernatural beings and genii both
those substances which serve and are made use of
in experimental science, as well as the men who
employed them, was entirely revived in the caba­
listic doctrines of modern times. To produce
miraculous works, science also caused the genii to
act, and to submit to the power of the philosopher
whom she enlightened with her rays. Genii of
the earth, of the air, of the water, and of fire were
dispersed in the four elements which physics, at
that period, considered the bases of all bodies;
and have we not discovered in the gnomes the
laborers who worked mines ?
* The brilliant and
romantic details with which a lively imagination
has embellished the principles of the cabalists, do
not prevent the identity of the two doctrines from
being easily recognized.
purpose of anointing all succeeding kings. To confirm its divine
descent, as soon as the coronation is over, the oil in the vial be­
gins to waste and vanish, but is again renewed of itself, for the
service of every succeeding coronation. By such falsehoods has
the Church of Rome defiled a faith which requires not'ning but
the simple light of truth to display and uphold its divine origin.
*
—Ed.
* The four elements were personified by Sylphs, Nymphs,
Gnomes, and Salamanders. The Gnomes were the evil demons
of the earth.—Ed.
< J
* Nic^ De Brain de St. Rmifie.
Digitized by Google
SECRET SOCIETIES. 219
■ It is known what sublime power is attached to
om (oum), which designates the Hindoo Trinity,
composed of Siva, Vishnu, and "Bramah, in pro­
nouncing which the pious Magi are raised to the
intellectual knowledge of the three united gods.
This divine name, and its mysterious energy, were
again brought forth in two books of magic, pub­
lished in Germany at the beginning of the six­
teenth century.
* We may regard these as the
last link of the chains still remaining, in spite of
the remoteness of countries and of ages, and in
spite of the difference of idioms and of religions—a
remaining link of that chain which binds to the
transcendental doctrines of Hindostan the wrecks
which modern adepts have preserved of them.
Of those inventions which anciently produced so
many miracles, some are to be found in the writ­
ings of men whom, as being versed in the occult
science, the Middle Ages either admired or perse-
cuted.f It is certain that in that age of ignorance
learned men have often conveyed the charge of
their knowledge to secret societies, which have
existed almost in our day, under the name of Rosi­
crucians,| or under other names equally enigmat­
ical.
* They are quoted in the “ Bibliolh'eque Magique," of M. Hurst.
t Albertus Magnus, l’Abbe Trithbme, the Franciscan Barth€-
lemi, Robert Fludd, Roger Bacon, &c.
t Rosicrucians, or brothers of the Rosy Cross, were a sect of
hermitical philosophers, who first appeared in Germany, at the
beginning of the fourteenth century.
Their chief was a German gentleman, called Christian Rosen-
cruz, educated in a monastery, where he learned the languages.
About the close of the fourteenth century, he went to the Holy
Land, where, falling sick, he consulted the Arabs at Damascus,
and other Eastern philosophers; and by them he was supposed to
be initiated into the mysteries he professed. On his return to Ger­
many he formed a society, to which he communicated his secrets,
and died in 1484.
The whole of this account is generally regarded as fabulous.
The members of the society bound themselves to secrecy, and
Digitized by
220 SECRET SOCIETIES,
One of the brighest geniuses who shed honor
upon Europe and the human race» Leibnitz, pen­
etrated into one of these societies at Nuremberg,
and, from the avowal of his panegyrist,
* obtained
there instruction which, perhaps, he might have
sought for in vain elsewhere. Were these myste­
rious reunions the remains ofthe ancient initiations 1
Every thing conduces to the belief that they were:
not only the ordeal and the examinations to which
it was necessary to /submit before obtaining an en­
trance to them; but, above all, the nature of the
secrets they possessed, and the means that they
appear to have employed to preserve them. Some­
times, indeed, there are found in the writings of
the authors of the twelfth and thirteenth centuries
indications of the knowledge of Thaumaturgy, sad
its application; but more frequently merely the
remembrance of the wonders that they had form­
certain rules. They professed to know all sciences, but espe­
cially medicine; and they pretended to have their traditionary
knowledge from Egyptians, Chaldeans, and others. They have
been called Immortals, Illuminati, Invisible Brothers, and, from
signing themselves F. R. C., also Fratus Rons Cocti ; it beingpre­
tended that the philosopher’s stone is concocted dew. They have
been confounded with the Freemasons.
The Rosicrucians have had some respectability, because.Lu­
ther’s arms were a cross and a rose; and as it was assumed by
chemical druggists, it was asserted to be derived from chemical
signs. Dew, ros, was esteemed the best solvent of gold; and the
cross, or crur, is the symbol for light in chemistry. Now light,
according to this sect, is rarefied gold ; and thus the name arose.
A Rosicrucian is one, therefore, who by dew seeks light (gold).
At the head of these fanatics was Robert Fludd, an English
physician, Jacob Behmen, and Michael Mayer. They all main­
tained that the dissolution of bodies by fire is the only way that
man can arrive at wisdom and obtain the first principles of things.
They taught that there was a certain harmony in creation; that
even the Deity rules the kingdom of grace by the same chemical
laws as those by which he rules the kingdom of nature; and they
therefore expressed religious truths by chemical signs, and va­
rious other strange, incomprehensible doctrines.—Ed.
♦ Fontenelle, Eloge de Leibnitz.—Eloges des Academiciens, tome
i., pp. 464, 465. -
Digitized by UooQle
SECBET SOCIETIES. 221
«rly worked, and scarcely throwing a gleam of
light on the oblivion into which the means by which
they have fallen were performed.
It is thus, at least, that we are tempted to in­
terpret these authors erroneously when they de­
scribe such marvelous works and pronounce them
possible to their art: usurping the glory of having
revived many of the old inventions—for example,
having rediscovered, before Buffon, the burning
mirror of Archimedes, of having invented the tele­
graph, See., &c.; but, with their pretensions, they
have not indicated the method of effecting these
wonders.
Their silence, however, is not a decisive proof
of their ignorance: loving mystery, and proud of
exclusive possession, they were learned but for
themselves and a small number of adepts; they
were silent, also, or expressed themselves only in
allegories.
* But this silence, this love of mystery,
are but traits of resemblance which recall the
Theurgic schools, in whose bosom the expiring
secrets of Polytheism were deposited.
That we may assign the same origin to the
knowledge possessed by the members of the secret
societies, is rendered probable from the horror,
the fear, and the spirit of persecution which their
science inspired; feelings much stronger than if
the science had been more extended. They were
designated the descendants ofthe Polytheist priests
—the ministers of those dethroned gods who were
but the genii of the wicked and of the ignorant.!
* In the sixteenth century, Leopold of Austria, son of Duke Al­
bert II., published a picture of the Paranalellons des Decans (printed
at Venice, in 1520. See Dupuis. Origins de Ums les Cultes, vol. xii.,
pp. 127,128). It is an extract of the Persian sphere; but Leopold,
instead of transcribing positive indications from them, has drawn
only the emblematical figures.
t The accusations against these secret societies ought not to
surprise us; and although much falsehood may have been propa-
Digitized by C.ooQle
im RISE OF MOHAMMEDISM.
Christianity having maintained powerful preem­
inence for more than six centuries, and having car­
ried her conquests farther than the Romans had
extended their empire, becoming the conquerors
even of the Romans themselves, seemed to have
nothing to fear except from the unceasing doctrinal
gated respecting the views and the proceedings of the initiated,
yet it should be recollected that suspicion can not fail to be awa­
kened where secrecy is cherished ; and charges will be made that
something exists which can not be exposed to the light of day,
nor to general observation. The chief secret societies in Europe
have been the Templars, the Secret Tribunals of Westphalia, the
Freemasons, and the Illuminati of Germany. It would be impos­
sible, in a note, to do justice even to a slight sketch of these mys­
terious societies; and, therefore, I will only adjoin the initiation
of an assessor, or Schoppe, into the Fehmgerichte of Westphalia,
an institution of Charlemagne. The person to be received ap­
peared bareheaded before the assembled tribunal, and kneeling
down, with the thumb and forefinger of his right hand on a naked
sword and a halter, he pronounced the following oath, after the
court, or the president of the assembly:—
“ I promise, on the holy marriage, that I will, from henceforth,
aid, help, and conceal the holy Fehms, from wife and child,
from father and mother, from sister and brother, from fire and
wind, from all that the sun shines on, and the rain covers,
from all that is between sky and ground, especially from the
man who knows the law; and I will bring before this free
tribunal, under which I sit, all that belongs to the secret ju­
risdiction of the emperor, whether I know it to be true my­
self, or have heard it from trustworthy people, whatever re­
quires correction or punishment, whatever is Fehm-free (i.e.,
a crime committed in the country), that it maybe judged, or,
with the consent of the accuser, be put off in grace ; and will
not cease to do so, for love or for fear, for gold or for silver,
or for precious stones ; and will strengthen this tribunal and
jurisdiction, with all my five senses and power; and that I do
not take on me this office for any other cause than for the
sake of right and justice ; moreover, that I will ever further
and honor this free tribunal more than any other free tribu­
nals ; and what I thus promise will I steadfastly and firmly
keep, So help me God and his holy Gospel.”*
* Secret Societies of the Middle Ages, Lond. 1837, p. 349.
However harshly stigmatized secret societies may have been, I
have no hesitation in saying that the imposition of such an oath
as the above could scarcely fail of throwing a suspicion of illegal
practices upon them, and consequently that they were properly
suppressed.—Ed.
Digitized by Google
RISE OF MOHAMMEDISM. 223
dissensions springing up among her children. At
length, upon an almost unknown part of the globe,
a man appeared, a stranger to the resources of the
pccult sciences, in the person of Mohammed.
* Hfe
had the courage to reject them, and to establish a
belief in revelation, and to found a religion by de­
claring that the God whom he preached had re­
fused him the gift of working miracles. In Syria,
Egypt, and Persia, which were rapidly conquered,
insfierce followers overturned civilization; and in
Persia especially their fanaticism pursued the Magi,
the depositaries of the sacred science, with impla­
cable rage. ■
Four hundred years later again, in the name of
Islamism, and animated with that enthusiasm for de­
struction that seldom fails to excite savage hordes,
the Turks overran Asia, from the foot of the Cait-
♦ Mohammed, or Mahomet, was the son of a noble Arab, Abd-
Aliah, of the tribe of Koreish, and Amineh, the daughter of a
chief of high rank. He was, however, left an orphan with a very
small patrimony of five camels and a female Ethiopian slave, and
was brought up by his uncle, Aboo Talib. At the age of twenty-
five. he became the confidential servant of Khadijah. a wealthy
widow, whom he afterward married, although she was fifteen
years his senior. At this time the Arabs were idolaters; and even
Christianity was. corrupted by many superstitions. The ardent
spirit and ambitious mind of Mohammed led him to regard him­
self as a mortal selected by Heaven to correct these evils; but it
was not until he attained his fortieth year, that he revealed his
pretended divine mission to his wife and friends. For the three
hundred gods of the Caaba, worshiped by the Arabs, he substi­
tuted the adoration of one God, and taught the doctrine of futufe
rewards and punishments; but his ideas of the rewards were sen­
sual, and of the punishment, those only that are offensive to the
body. It is probable that, deluded into the belief of his mission,
his views, at first, were honest, and his object was to check the
evil propensities of his countrymen. But elated by the success
in his attainment of temporal power, he diffused his tenets by the
•sword, and to elevate their origin, declared that each sura or reve­
lation of the Koran was brought to him from heaven by the angel
Gabriel. That be was an impostor there is no doubt; but it might
■become a question, whether his appearance had not greatly con­
tributed to the fall of Polytheism.—Ed. '•
Digitized by UooQle
224 MOORISH SCHOOLS.
casus to the shores of the Red Sea; from the
Persian Gulf to the Euxine; and over those coun­
tries barbarism seemed .always to have reigned
with them. Similar causes produce similar effects;
and in these two epochs the secrets of the occult
science were spread abroad in consequence of the
dispersion of its possessors.
From the eighth century, when, tranquil in the
bosom of their conquests, the Arabs gave them­
selves up with ardor to the study of magic, they
sought to obtain from it the art of making gold and
of discovering hidden treasures—a wish natural in
a people enervated by luxury, and for whom des­
potism rendered all property precarious, but that
which could be carried with them.
In the eleventh century, when in their turn the
civilized Moslems dreaded the fanaticism of their
new brethren, the intercourse between Europeans
and the Arabs and Moors became very active; and
it may be observed, that this commercial commu­
nication of the latter infested the sciences that
they had carried to the West with magical super­
stitions.
* Students from divers countries of Eu­
rope hastened to frequent the schools of the pro­
fessors of the occult science which were opened
at Toledo,! Seville, and Salamanca.^ The school
of Toledo was the most celebrated, and continued
to be so from the twelfth until the end of the
fifteenth century.§
The secret societies of Europe took an active
♦ Tiedmann, De QucMtione, <£c., p. 97.
t “ Complures ex diversis regionibus scholares apud Toletum
student in arte necromanticA,” are the expressions of Caesar Heis-
terbach, a writer at the end of the twelfth or the commencement
of the thirteenth century. llluatr. Mirac. et Hist. Mir.t lib. v., cap.
iv., p. 207 (edit, of 1605).
t Fromann, Tract, de Fascin, pp. 173, 174.
$ See the Commentaire de Leduchat sur Rabelais, lib. iii., chap,
xxiii., note 9.
Digitized by Google
SEVERE LAWS AGAINST MAGIC. 225
part in these communications; and it is in a gfreat
measure from the adepts, of which these societies
were composed, that we have acquired the knowl­
edge of most of the physical and the chemical
inventions of the Arabs.
It was in the lowest class of society that the
secrets of Polytheism were at this period partially
deposited. The degradation of the fallen religion
caused the most ignorant men to become succes­
sors to the Thaumaturgists, who had so long gov­
erned both kings and people.
The vulgar can be undeceived by exposing the
tricks of jugglers and other impostors who take
advantage of their credulity; but, if their reason
has not been aided by sound instruction, their
superstitious prejudices never die; they only aban­
don one- object to uphold another. The subaltern
ministers of Polytheism were men whose science
was almost limited to words, and their knowledge
to the art of persuading others that they possessed
secrets which were great and extraordinary. For­
getting their despised gods, they spoke of demons,
genii, and fates, who, at their command, directed
either terrible or benevolent actions.
Toward the middle of the sixth century, the
Franks and the Visigoths issued severe laws against
magic, that is to say, against the lowest class of ma­
gicians. The great Theurgic secrets were guarded
with sufficient care to prevent them from spreading
in an alarming degree among barbarians. Such
laws prove how numerous this class was, and how
great its power had become over the minds of the
people.
In fact, from the commencement of the fifth cen­
tury St. Augustin speaks of the Sabbat
* and of the
* The Sabbat was a fabulous assembly ofsorcerers and witches,
presided over by the devil, which is supposed to have originated
I- P .
Digitized by UooQle
226 SORCERY A REMNANT OF PAGANISM.
assemblies of sorcerers. Before this period only
isolated magicians were known, such for instance
as those whose juggleries have been recorded by
Apuleius and Lucian. This is remarkable, as the
idea of a Sabbat—of reunions—implies that of an
organized society which recognizes within it chiefs
and different orders; in short, the idea of an initia­
tion. But although it bears an ignoble appearance,
yet it is, in fact, an initiation. The subaltern ma­
gicians, not contented with trafficking in miracles,
next communicated the gift of working them; they
imitated the trials, vows, revelations, and the pa­
geantry of the ancient initiations.
It has been thought possible to trace the origin
of the assemblies of the Sabbat, or rather the tra­
ditions which relate to them, to the nocturnal meet­
ings of the Druids; their religious dances by torch­
light ; the processions of Druidesses clothed in
white robes; and the solemnities which were cele­
brated only in remote places, or in deserts, from
the period that Christianity had induced sovereigns
to put down the ancient religion of their countries.
*
This is not at all improbable, and it can easily be
believed, that in the same manner as in the forma­
tion of the modern secret societies, the remains of
diverse institutions, borrowed from different ages
and from different countries, have been brought
together, and so intermingled that it would be
difficult to perceive what had originally belonged
to each of them.
in the mystery that shadowed the religious meetings of the Wal-
denses, the earliest seceders from the Romish creed; and which
brought upon them the charge of indulging in unhallowed rites,
similar to those of heathenism.—Ed.
♦ M. Brodel thinks that the immense grottoes that are found in
the Alps were formerly inhabited by the Faidhs, or adepts in the
occult science; and he is also of opinion that, from this circum­
stance, the belief has arisen that these grottoes have been, and
still are, the dwellings of fairies.
i
r
Digitized by UooQle
SORCERY A REMNANT OF PAGANISM. 227
Whatever may be the general opinion, are we
right in regarding as successors to the sorcerers
of the fifth and sixth centuries, those sorcerers
whose meetings have been impeached by all
the tribunals of Europe, even until the eighteenth
century ?
We have already attempted to point out an anal­
ogous relation between the secret societies, formed
by learned men of the Middle Ages, and the schools
of the philosophic Theurgists. In the former, the
changes produced by time have affected the forms
and the secrets of the initiation; the knowledge
which they wished to preserve existed as long as
they could understand th& formularies of it: in the
latter, on the contrary, the design of the initiation
and its history have alike fallen into oblivion. If
we endeavor to trace it back to its origin, we have
only for our guidance some imperfect remains of
its practices and its fictions; and that which deceit
and cupidity, eager to find dupes, have been able
to preserve.
Several considerations demonstrate that such an
analogy is of little value. M. Tiedmann supposes
that several barbarous words, used in the opera­
tions of witchcraft, are only Latin and Greek
words, badly read and pronounced by the unedu­
cated,
* which originally were part of the formula­
ries of operations or of invocations. Nothing is
more probable: and thus the three unintelligible
Greek words, pronounced by the high priest at the
Eleusian mysteries, Kongx, Om, Panx, have been
recognized by Captain Wilford, in the Sanscrit
words, cansha, om, panscha, which are repeated by
the Bramins every day at the conclusion of their
religious ceremonies.!
• Tiedmann, De Qucestione, cf-c., pp. 102, 103.
t The Monthly Repertory, vol. xxiii., p. 8. .
1 Digitized by
228 SORCERY A REMNANT OF PAGANISM.
Do we not also remark, in the invocations of
modern sorcerers, a confusion of astrological ideas,
for the invention of which they assuredly can not
account, because they do not understand them, and
which must have been received from more learned
predecessors 1
To transport themselves to the Sabbat, or rather
to dream that they were transported there, the sor­
cerers rubbed their bodies with a sort of pomade;
the secret of composing which, a secret which so
often was fatal to them, is the last, perhaps the
only one, which they have preserved. A sudden,
deep, and continued sleep, sad and mournful vis­
ions, sometimes mixed with voluptuous movements,
were generally produced by the magical unction,
the effect of which was to combine the two most
powerful feelings of the human soul—pleasure and
terror. The choice of the efficacious substances
of which the pomade was composed, the discov­
ery of their virtues, and the manner of employing
them, can not be attributed to the modem sorcer­
ers, who are always found in the lowest and most
ignorant classes; this knowledge has doubtless
descended from a much higher source. Ancient
magic used mysterious unctions; Lucian and Apu-
leius have described those with which Pamphda
and the wife of Hipparcus practiced. These two
Writers, however, have only copied from the Mile­
sian Fables, as much celebrated for their antiquity
as for their amusing character
*
The magical unction, as we have thus described
it, has no effect in modern times, except in produ­
cing the dreams that followed its use. But, in the
primitive initiations, when composed of ingredients
less soporific, it probably served to prepare adepts
for the mysteries that they were about to celebrate,
by bringing upon them that moral intoxication, the
Digitized by UooQle
SOKCEBy A BEMNANT OF PAGANISM. 229
frenzy of belief, so necessary for creating and main­
taining superstition and fanaticism.
It may be asked, are we able to trace any ves­
tiges of the primitive initiations 1
Amid the avowals drawn by torture from pre­
tended sorcerers, as to what had passed at the
Sabbat—amid details varied by all the incoherence
of profound delirium—we may perceive a certain
number of uniform ideas. M. Tiedmann
* ascribes
this to the continuance of the tortures of these un­
fortunate beings until they had confessed every
thing of which they were accused; and because
the accusations were always identical and conform­
able to the ideas received among the judges. But
it is not likely that the magistrates invented these
absurd confessions: how then, we may ask, were
they originally imprinted in the minds of these
poor wretches, if they were not recitals founded
either on real actions, or on recollections preserved
by long tradition '( The common foundation, there­
fore, of all the confessions which were composed
of these ideas was, probably, allowing for the alter­
ations which time and ignorance could not fail to
give to them, some ceremonies formerly practiced
in the subaltern initiations.
It is natural to believe that these initiations were
attached to the last remains of the destroyed wor­
ship, and divers indications render this probable.
Thus, if a hundred and fifty years have passed,
since magical virtues, as in the time of our ancient
Druids, were attributed to the misletoe of the oak;t
* Tiedmann, De Qutestione, <fc., pp. 137, 138.
t Fromann, Tract, de Fuse., p. 697. The misletoe, viscum al­
bum, grows upon many trees; but it was that only which is found
upon the oak that the Druids employed ; and being a parasitic
plant, the seeds ofwhich are not sown by the hand of man, it was
well adapted for the purposes of superstition. Its virtues, how­
ever, depended altogether upon the manner in which it was ob-
230 SORCERY A REMNANT OF PAGANISM.
if, in the country, attentive observers daily discover
legends, superstitions, and observances which have
emanated from the ancient religions, how much
more is it likely that in an epoch far less remote
from that of their splendor, these religions still pre­
served an influence over the habits and the faith
of the multitude ! The priestesses and Druidesses
of Polytheism retired to a distance from cities, and
long preserved the confidence and the respect of
the people. Gregory of Tours speaks of the ex­
istence of Pythonesses among the Gauls; and, in
798, we see by the capitulars of Charlemagne that
there were divineresses prescribed under the name
of Stria. At a much later period, a crowd of men
and women assembled by night to celebrate the
worship of Diana, or the Lady Abunde, who was
also called H£ra, from the Greek name of Juno,
with feasts, races, and dances.
* It appears that
the priest who presided at the assembly was cloth­
ed in a goat’s skirt, carrying a horned and bearded
mask, and thus represented the god Pan, the divin­
ity of Mendes,! whom the Greeks had borrowed
* Brand on Bourne's Antiquities, p. 193.
tained: and for this purpose, a religious procession of Druids and
Druidesses repaired to the forest, and having found the misletoe,
the chief priest ascended the oak in which it was growing; and
a hymn having been sung, the plant was cut down with a silver
sickle, and received in a clean, white sheet, spread out below,
and held by the other priests; for the misletoe lost all its virtue
if it touched the ground. The custom, still extant, of decorating
houses, at Christmas, with evergreens, of which the misletoe is
one, is a remnant of Druidism; and was originally intended as an
inducement for the sylvan spirits to “repair to them, and re­
main unnipped with frost and cold winds, until a milder season
had renewed the foliage of their darling abodes.”*—Ed.
* See Dulaure, Histoire de Paris, 1st edition, vol. v., p. 259;
and also Carpentier, Glossar. verbis Diana et Holda.
t Mendes, which, in the Egyptian dialect, was the name for a
goat, was a city near Lycopohs, in Egypt, situated on one of the
mouths of the Nile, where Pan, under the form of a goat, was
worshiped; and a sacred goat was kept with the most cere­
Digitized by UooQle
8ORCEBY A REMNANT OF PAGANISM. 231
from Egypt; as in some secret ceremonies of
Polytheism, there were other priests who probably
bore the disguise of animals. The names ofDiana
or Hera, and the recollection of Pan, carries us
back to the religion which Christianity had over­
turned ; but, do we not also find details, which
were repeated in the confessions of the sorcerers :
for example, the dances, the races, and the feasts;
the goat that they adored; the different animals
which a heated imagination transformed into de­
mons, and which, it was supposed, served for
mounting the principal personages, who attended
at the ceremony. Maximus of Turin, in the fifth
century, describes similar meetings as the remains
of Paganism. Seven hundred years later, John of
Salisbury speaks of them. He mentions them in
the fourteenth century; but it is doubtful whether
they really took place then: the romance of the
Rose says that those who believed in them, and
united themselves with the third part of the popu­
lation, were deceived by an illusion. From that
time, the meetings and ceremonies of the Sabbat
fell into disuse, and no longer existed, save in the
reveries of the sorcerers.
After having endeavored to restore the historic
chain which united those wretches, whom a stupid
ignorance condemned to death as sorcerers, with
the last depositaries of the ancient occult knowl­
edge, it is necessary that we should, among the
latter, distinguish the subaltern Magi from wizards.
Those men who came from different temples, and
who were possessed of different secrets, without
doubt assisted to extend the knowledge of such
monious sanctity. Notwithstanding the disgusting form which
he assumed, this god had gained the affection of Diana, on
which account, in her festivals, one of the priests always as­
sumed the disguise described in the text.—Ed. ,
Digitized by Google
232 SORCERY A REMNANT OF PAGANISM.
secrets; but we suspect that sorcery was founded
by those Egyptian priests of the last order, who,
from the commencement of the Roman Empire, had
wandered in every direction; and who, although
they were publicly despised, yet were consulted in
secret, and continued to make proselytes among
the lowest classes of society. The apparition and
the adoration of a goat, formed an essential part
of the ceremonies of the Sabbat. The cat, also,
unhappily for itself, played in these a considerable
part, for it often shared the dread which the sor­
cerers inspired, and the punishments inflicted upon
them. It is well known how ancient the worship
of the cat and the goat was in Egypt. It is also
well known of what importance another agent, the
key, was in the tricks of witchcraft; how many
cures the Key of St, John
* and the Key of St,H&
bert,] performed. The handled cross, Crux aneata,
so frequently observed on the Egyptian monu­
ments, was a key and from the religious ideas
which placed it in the hand of the principal gods
of Egypt, we discover in the key the hieroglyphic
of sovereign power.
* The number of the saints of this name in Butler’s alpha­
betical list of the fathers, martyrs, and principal saints, is
thirty-two; but I imagine the St. John referred to in the text
is he ** of the cross,” who flourished in the sixteenth century.
—Ed.
t St. Hubert must have been originally a man of wealth and
consequence, as he was mayor of the palace of Austrasia, a.d.
681, in which year St. Lambert, by whose efforts he was united
to the service of the Church, was murdered. St. Hubert was
chosen his successor, or Bishop of Maestricht; and among other
praiseworthy acts, drove the remnants of idolatry from their last
stronghold, m the great forest of Ardennes, on the Meuse. But,
like many of his predecessors, he pretended to work miracles;
and his shrine has always been celebrated for wonderful cures,
especially of persons laboring under hydrophobia; but we possess
no evidence of the value of the remedies, when the disease is not
the result of imagination.—Ed.
t Encyclop. method, Aniiquitio, Art Key.
Digitized by UooQle
SORCERY A REMNANT OF PAGANISM. 233
The PseudxMnonarchia Damonum appears to us
to have had an Egyptian origin; an important fact,
since most of the names which this work contains
are reproduced, with a little alteration, in the pam­
phlets respecting witchcraft, which are found in
country places.
* Among the genii of the Pseudo-
monarchic one is a mermaid, a figure peculiar to
the Planispheres ;! another, a venerable old man,
mounted on a crocodile and carrying a hawk upon
his wrist. A third is represented under the form
of a camel, which bespeaks its Egyptian origin (in
the astronomy of the Arabs the camel is known to
take the place of the constellation of the kneeling
Hercules), while another appears partly a wolf and
partly a man, displaying, like Anubis, the jawbones
of a dog; and a fifth is Ammon or Hammon^ whose
name reveals its origin. Ammon was the univer­
sal, the invisible god, whom the Egyptian priests
* On the second band of the soffit of the portico of the temple
of Dendera, may be remarked (says M. Jollois, in the Description
de VEgypte) a woman whose body terminates with the tail of a
fish. On this emblem, which is also found in the Hindoo, Japan,
Chaldean, Phoenician, and even Greek mythologies, see § xit
of the note A., of dragons and monstrous serpents.
f J. Scaligeri, Nota in M. Maniliwn, p. 484.
$ The rums of the temple of Jupiter
*
Ammon are situated in
an oasis, five degrees nearly west of Cairo, called the oasis
of Siwah. They were discovered by Browne, who traveled into
Upper Egypt in 1792; and were visited by Horneman in 1798,
ana Belzoni in 1816. Homeman discovered there the fountain
of the sun, described by Herodotus as warm at dawn, cool as the
day advanced, extremely cold at noon, gradually again becoming
warmer until sunset, and boiling hot at midnight. Belzoni had
no thermometer to measure its temperature; but, judging from
his feelings, he states that he found it about 80° early in the
morning, 40° at noon, and 100° at midnight. The well is sixty
feet deep, in a shaded spot, and it is probable that, were its tern
*
perature measured by a thermometer, it would be found nearly
the same at all times; but when measured by the hand, a fallacy
is produced by the different temperament of the body at the time.
At midnight, the body being coo], the water would feel hot; but
at mid-day, the body being hot, the water bf the same temperature
as at midnight would feel cool.—Ed.
Digitized by Goo
234 WONDERS OF INITIATION.
supplicated to manifest himself to his worship­
ers.
We have already given sufficient space to this
discussion; if the inferences which we have drawn
from it have any probability, they will authorize
us sometimes to quote in our researches, from the
modern sorceries, either as borrowed from ancient
science, or as proper for explaining, by analogy,
some of the apparent miracles of the ancients : and
they will at the same time show us, in explaining
the progress of the science, how the knowledge of
it extended to our times—the errors to which it
led in the uneducated classes—the reason why it
was enveloped in mystery—the prejudices that
this mystery have given birth to in the human
mind—and how it silently perished in the hands
of the truly enlightened.
CHAPTER X.
Enumeration of the Wonders that the Thaumaturgists acquired
the Power of Working, by the Practice of the Occult Science.
The theater where so many prodigies were
concentrated for the purpose of trying the courage
of the initiated, for subjugating their reason, and
rewarding their constancy, the temple, is about to
be thrown open.
After having been for many days submitted to
various preparations, the design of which was hid­
den from him, and their nature disguised by reli­
gious ceremonies, the aspirant entered upon a
course of apparent miracles, with the issue of
which he was ignorant; and from beholding which
* According to H&atsus of Abdera, quoted by Plutarch (Plu­
tarch. de laid, et Oeirid.}—Joannie Wieri, Opera omnia Peeudo-mo-
narchia Damonum, p. 650, $5.
Digitized by Gooqlc
WONDERS OF INITIATION. 235
he was uncertain whether he should be permitted
to emerge a victor.
At first he seemed to be placed immovably, and,
as it were, enchained, in the depth of an obscurity
as profound as those of the infernal regions; and
although now and then flashes of light broke for a
moment the darkness which surrounded him, hor­
rors only were revealed to him. By these tran­
sient flashes he caught glimpses of monstrous phan­
toms and awful specters; he heard near him the
hissing of serpents and the howling of wild beasts;
and echo repeated and prolonged in the distance
these noises so well calculated to excite alarm.
During the calmer intervals such were the over­
powering emotions awakened in his mind, that a
slight rustling, or even an agreeable sound, made
him tremble.
* The scene next became lighted
up; and, suddenly, he perceived a change coming
over the aspect of the place and its decorations;
the earth trembled and raised itself up, almost into
a mountain, and again sunk into a profound abyss.
He then felt himself raised or drawn rapidly along,
although unable to discover the impulse he felt
constrained to obey. Under his eyes, while gazing
upon them, the pictures and marbles became ani­
mated ; the bronzes shed tears; unwieldy and
colossal figures moved and walked ; and statues
uttered harmonious sounds. He was compelled
to advance forward, while awful monsters, cen­
taurs, harpies, gorgons, and serpents with a hun­
dred heads, surrounded and menaced him, bodi­
less heads grinned at him, and mocked alike his
fear and his courage.!
* I have borrowed this sketch from the highly poetical picture
drawn by the author of the “ Livre de la Sageue,” (chap, xvii.)
displaying the terrors which tormented the Egyptians during the
three days of darkness.
t An exhibition similar to the Phantasmagoria.
236 WONDERS OF INITIATION.
Phantoms bearing a perfect resemblance to men
who had been long laid in the grave, and who,
while alive, had been the objects of his admiration
or his attachment, fluttered about him, and shrunk
from embraces which they appeared to seek.
Thunders rolled, lightnings flashed, water became
inflamed and flowed in torrents of fire. A dry and
solid body fermented, dissolved, and changed into
waves of foaming blood. In one place were seen
wretched beings in vain attempting to fill with
water a shallow urn, the liquid they unceasingly
poured into it never rose to its top ; in another
place the favored of the gods proved their right to
this title by braving the influence of boiling water,
of red-hot iron, melted metal, and burning wood.
They commanded as masters the most ferocious
beasts ; they gave the word, and venomous ser­
pents came and crouched at their feet; they seized
asps and vipers and tore them asunder, while the
reptiles dared not to bite nor revenge themselves
upon their tormentors. Then the aspirant heard
near him the tones of a human voice,
* calling him,
and answering his questions; but the nearer he
approached to the spot whence the sound pro­
ceeded, the less able was he to perceive the person
by whom the voice was uttered. At the bottom
of a narrow cavern, into which the daylight never
penetrated, a light as bright as that of the sun,
suddenly bursting forth, discovered to him, at an
immense distance, enchanted gardens and palaces,
the beauty and the magnificence of which induced
him to recognize in them the abode of the immortal
gods. There the gods appeared to him, their
presence being announced by the most indubitable
indications. He saw and he heard them; his mind
troubled, his imagination confused, and his reason,
* This was evidently the effect of ventriloquism.—Eo.
Digitized by Gooqlc
WONDERS OF INITIATION. 237
overwhelmed by so many miracles, abandoned him;
and, intoxicated and transported with admiration,
he worshiped the glorious proofs of supernatural
power, and bent in devotion before the certain
presence of divinity.
However dazzling these pretended miracles
were, they sunk to nothing compared with the
knowledge which was preserved for the initiated,
if his birth, his courage, his zeal, should enable
him some day to take a place among the highest
orders of the priesthood. All that had struck him
with so much admiration he was himself to acquire
the power of performing, and the secret of still
more important wonders was to be revealed to
him.
The minister of a divinity by turns beneficent
and revengeful, but ever omnipotent, he was as­
sured that both man and the elements should obey
him. He should be rendered capable of astonish­
ing the multitude by his power of abstinence from
food, and load the ignorant man with gratitude by
purifying the impure beverage that excess of thirst
might oblige him to accept. He was informed
that he should possess the power of disturbing the
minds of men, of plunging them into brutish stu­
pidity or ferocious rage; of obliterating from their
memory the recollection of their sorrows, and of
freeing them from the power of grief. In addi­
tion, he was to be able to exalt their audacity, or
their docility, into fanaticism; fulfill their most ar­
dent desires in visions; and often, even without
any intermediate means, to act on their senses and
govern their will. Arbiter of their disputes, he
would have no necessity to interrogate witnesses
or to weigh opinions: a simple ordeal should ena­
ble him to distinguish the innocent and truthful
man from the criminal and peijured, who might
Digitized by
238 WONDERS OF INITIATION.
be convicted by him to be worthy of a dreadful
and merited death. He was told that in their
maladies men should call upon him; and, at his
voice, the aid of heaven would descend and heal
their diseases; and he should even have the power
of snatching from death the prey which the grim
destroyer had already seized. Woe to the man
who should offend him: he might be struck with
leprosy, with blindness, or with death. He was
further informed that he might forbid the earth to
yield its fruits, that he might poison the atmo­
sphere and the exhalations, which would thus
furnish him with arms against his enemies. The
most terrible of the elements, fire, should be his
slave; at his command it would spring up sponta­
neously, and bewilder the eyes of the incredulous;
water should not extinguish it; it should burst
forth awful as thunder against his victims, and,
tearing open the bosom of the earth, compel it to
ingulf and devour them. The heavens even should
be subject to his control, and he might predict to
the anxious and fearful the variations ofthe weather
and the convulsions of the earth. He should have
power to still the thunder, and to play w’ith the
lightning, while trembling men should believe him
to be endowed with the power of hurling it at their
heads. Such were the promised gifts of the deity
who inspired; such the tools of conviction by which
the initiated chained to the foot of the altar all
men, whatever their rank might be, out of the
temple. All were constrained to believe, to adore,
and to obey.
These unbounded promises were fulfilled through
the means of the occult science : a thousand times
has the attentive eye witnessed these apparent mir­
acles, into the causes of which enthusiasm forbade
inquiry. And we, to whom this inquiry is per-
Digitized by Google
MECHANICAL AGENCIES. 239
mitted, (for to whom, indeed, is it now denied?)
we believe these apparent miracles, and admire
them for the variety of knowledge necessary to
their production; but we are not blind to the
charlatanism and imposture so cleverly mixed up
with these mysteries; and, therefore, we have en­
deavored to expose this shameful alliance. By
purifying it from the dross that soils it, the precious
ore recovers all its brilliancy and value.
CHAPTER XI.
Apparent Miracles performed by Mechanism.—Moving Floors.—
Automata.—Experiments in the Art of Flying.
Among the wonders which were invented and
composed, as experiments and exhibitions for the
initiated, we can not avoid, at the first glance, per­
ceiving that many were the result of an ingenious
application of the principles of mechanism and
acoustics. The skillful illusions of optics; of per­
spective ; th& phantasmagoria; many inventions
belonging to hydrostatics and chemistry; the prac­
tical use made of observations of the habits and
sensations of animals; and lastly, the employment
of those secrets, practiced in all ages and always
beheld with astonishment, which preserve our frail
organs and susceptible skins from the ravages of
fire—were all called in to assist in deluding the
aspirant. We do not discover, it is true, in the
writings of the ancients any positive indication of
their possession of all this knowledge ; but the
effects speak for themselves, and constrain us to
admit their existence as causes. We repeat that
it is wiser to concur in such views than boldly to
accuse the accounts of such miraculous events of
Digitized by Gooqlc
240 MECHANICAL AGENCIES*
being misrepresentations. The marvelous, and
apparently impossible, have been robbed of their
wonderful character by the progress of science.
Much that the ancients assert was done, we pos­
sess the means of doing: equivalent means were
therefore known to them. I demand of those who
would reject this conclusion, to say whether the
history of the sciences—that history enveloped in
so much darkness—has been handed down to us
so detailed and complete that we can with certainty
define its extent, or determine its limits 1 In ref­
erence to mechanism, at least, we dare not attempt
it. The science of constructing wonderful ma­
chines, whose effects seem to overthrow the whole
order of nature; in one word, mechanism—for it
is thus that Cassiodorus
* defines it—was carried
by the ancients to a point of perfection that has
never been attained in modern times. We would
inquire, have their inventions been surpassed in
our age 1 Certainly not; and at the present day,
with all the means which the progress of science
and modern discoveries have placed in the hands
of the mechanic, have we not been assailed ly
numerous difficulties, in striving to place on a ped­
estal one of those monolithes that the Egyptians,
forty centuries ago, erected in such numbers before
their sacred edifices. It is, indeed, sufficient to
point to the inventions of Archimedes, to render
credible the wonders that are said to have been
performed by mechanism in the temples. But let •
us observe how that great man, misled by the doc­
trines of Plato, attached only an ordinary value to
the most brilliant applications of science; holding
* Cassiodor., Variar., lib. i., cap. xliv. Cassiodorus, a statesman
and learned writer of the sixteenth century, who filled several
offices under Theodoric. He lived to the age of one hundred;
but some time before his death he grew tired of public life, and
retired to a monastery, where he ended his days, a.d. 562.—Ed.
Digitized by UooQle
MECHANICAL AGENCIES. 241
theory and speculative disquisitions in a much
higher estimation. It is even believed,
* though
perhaps incorrectly,! on the evidence of Plutarch,
that he left nothing written on the construction of
those machines which had acquired him so much
renown. Thaumaturgists alone understood the
true value of the secrets acquired by the practice
of science, yet beheld unmoved the injustice done
to the philosophers, who aided them by preserving
their means of power in inaccessible security.
In the infamous mysteries which were properly
and severely denounced by the Roman magistrates,
* Plutarch in Marcell., 6 18 et § 22.
t Cassiodorus (Variar., lib. i., cap. xlv.), in commenting upon
the works translated from Greek into Latin by Boethius,
* posi­
tively mentions a treatise on mechanism, by Archimedes, en­
titled, “Mechanicum etiam Archimedem latialem ticulis rcddlidisti.”
The epithet conferred by Cassiodorus on every author explains
the title or the subject of the translated work:Pythagoras mw-
ficus“ Plato theologus “ Arisloteles logiciu ;n &C. The mean­
ing of the word mechanic™ is rendered obvious in the continuation
of the letter in which Cassiodorus gives mechanism the definition
we have quoted. When it is recollected that Plutarch was not
an infallible authority in facts, we shall be inclined to give more
weight to the assertion of Cassiodorus, the friend and cotempo­
rary of Boethius. It would, at least, be very desirable that a
search should be made in all libraries containing manuscripts, for
a translation of the treatise, the original of which, if it ever ex­
isted, has long since disappeared.
♦ Annins Manlius Torqiiatus Severins Boethius was born a.d. 455, of
an ancient, noble Roman family. He studied at Athens, and acquired
so early a character for learning and genius, that, on his return to Rome,
it secured for him many friends and admirers, and also the consulship at
the age of thirty-two, when Theodoric reigned in Italy. He devoted the
whole of the time which he could spare from the service of the Com­
monwealth to the cultivation of science. His treatise upon music was
one only of his voluminous labors, the principal of which was entitled,
ADe Consolatione Philosophic,” composed in prison, into which he had
been thrown by Theodoric, under a false accusation that he attempted
to excite discontent against that monarch, and that he sought means to
restore freedom to the Romans. He had scarcely finished his treatise,
when Theodoric ordered him to be beheaded, which was done in prison,
October 23, a.d. 526. Although a Christian, yet it is remarkable that he
refers to none of the consolations to that faith. Boethius must not be
confounded with Bo^tius, the Scottish historian, who flourished in the
fifteenth century, and who was also a writer of undoubted veracity.
Erasmus, speaking of him, says, “ he knew not to lie.”—Ed.
I. Q
Digitized by Google
242 MECHANICAL AGENCIES.
in the year 186 b.c., and which were doubtless
derived from more ancient initiations, certain ma­
chines were employed to raise up, and cause the
disappearance of the unhappy victims, who were
said to have been ravished by the gods.
* In a
similar manner, in other cases, the aspirant to ini­
tiation felt himself suddenly lifted up by some
invisible power. We might be astonished that
imposture thus exposed should continue to be re­
vered in other mysteries, if human credulity did
not everywhere present contradictions as palpable.
In order to descend into the cave of Trophonius,
those who came to consult the oracle placed them­
selves before an aperture apparently too narrow to
admit a middle-sized man; yet, as soon as the
knees had entered it, the whole body was rapidly
drawn in by some invisible power. The mechan­
ism used for this purpose was connected with other
machinery, which at the same time enlarged the
entrance to the grotto.f
* Tit. Liv., lib. xxix., cap. xiii.
t Clavier, Memoirs sur les oracles anciens, pp. 149, 150. The
cave of Trophonius was one of the most celebrated oracles of
Greece. The individual whose name the cave bore, and who
was thus honored as a god, was, in conjunction with his brother
Agamides, the architect of the temple of Apollo at Delphi, and
was rewarded by the priests with assassination instead of pay­
ment for his labors. The brothers were desired by the god,
through the priests, to be cheerful, and to wait eight days for
their reward, at the termination of which time, however, they,
were found dead in their beds.
The person who went to consult the ,oracle was obliged to
make certain sacrifices, to bathe in certain rivers, and to anoint
his body with oil. He was then clothed in a linen robe, and, with
a cake of honey in his hand, he descended in the manner described
in the text into the cave. What passed there was never reveal­
ed ; but the person on his return generally looked pale and deject­
ed.—Ed.
When the sages of India conducted Apollonius
to the temple of their god, singing hymns and form­
ing a sacred march, the earth, which they struck
Digitized by GooqIc
MECHANICAL AGENCIES. 343
with their staves in cadence, was agitated like a
boisterous sea, and raised them up nearly two feet;
then calmed itself and resumed its usual level.
*
The act of striking with their sticks betrays the
necessity of warning workmen, who were placed
beneath, to raise a moving stage covered with
earth; an operation readily effected by the aid of
mechanism, very easy to be comprehended.
* Philostrat., De nil. Apoll., lib. iii., cap. v.
t Philostrat., De vit. Apoll., lib. vi., cap. vi. Apollonius was,
however, a mere narrator of wonders, not very worthy of belief.
He was a native of Tyanus, in Cappadocia, and lived in the com­
mencement of the Christian era. He traveled by land into India,
and on his return propagated accounts of the most incredible
prodigies and miracles which he had witnessed; but he was a
shameless impostor, and one of the many pretenders to miracles
in his time. One of the few redeeming acts in the life of Nero
was the banishment of our hero and his fellow miracle-workers
from Rome. At Athens, Apollonius was initiated into the Eleu-
sian mysteries, and performed many pretended miracles before
his death, which occurred when he was above one hundred years
of age. It is remarkable that Philostratus, his biographer, should
have believed a tithe of the wonders he has related in bis life:
and, notwithstanding the evident falsehoods of Apollonius, such
was the superstition and credulity of his period, that temples and
statues were erected in his honor, and his appellation was, “ the
true friend of the gods!”—Ed.
t The unedited Antiquities ofAttica, by the Society ofDilettanti,
London, 1817.
According to Apollonius, it was only the sages
of India who could perform this miracle.! Never­
theless, it is probable that a similar secret existed
in other temples. English travelers,^ who visited
the remains of the temple of Ceres, at Eleusis,
observed that the pavement of the sanctuary is
rough and unpolished, and much lower than that
of the adjacent portico. It is therefore probable
that a wooden floor, on a level with the portico,
covered the present floor, and concealed a vault
destined to admit ofthe action ofmachinery beneath
the sanctuary for moving the floor. In the soil of
an interior vestibule, they observed two deeply
Digitized by C.ooQle
244 MECHANICAL AGENCIES.
indented grooves, or ruts; and as no carriage
could possibly be drawn into this place, the travel­
ers conjectured that these were grooves intended
to receive the pulleys which served in the myste­
ries to raise a heavy body—“ perhaps,” said they,
“ a moving floor.” In confirmation of their opinion,
they perceived, further on, other grooves, which
might have served for the counterbalances to raise
the floor; and they also detected places for wedges,
to fix it immovable at the desired height. These
were eight holes fixed in blocks of marble and
raised above the ground—four on the right, and
four on the left—adapted to receive pegs of large
dimensions. The seats, on which a person sitting
down finds himself fixed, and without the power of
moving from, are not, as was supposed, the inven­
tion of the eighteenth century. It is related by
the mythologists, that Vulcan presented a throne
to Juno, on which the goddess had no sooner seated
herself than she found herself enchained to it
*
Vulcan decorated Olympus with tripods, which,
without any apparent motion, took their places in
the banquet-hall of the gods.f Apollonius saw and
admired similar tripods among the sages of India.J
The construction of automata is not a recent inven­
tion; and we may venture to relate, on the au­
thority of Macrobius,§ that at Antium and in the
temple of Hierapolis there were moving statues.
Another proof of the ingenuity of the ancients
was the wooden dove, so wonderfully constructed
by the philosopher Archytas,|| that it flew, and
* Pausanias, Attic., cap, xx.
t Homer, Iliad, lib. xviii., vers. 375-378.
t Philostrat., De vit. Apoll., lib. vi., cap. vi.
6 Macrob., Satumal., hb. i., cap. xxiii.
|| Archytas was a native of Tarentum, in Italy, and flourished
four hundred years before the birth of our Savior. He was a
cotemporary of Plato, who had been his pupil. He is said to have
been a man distinguished for his mathematical knowledge and
Digitized by Google
MECHANICAL AGENCIES. 245
sustained itself for some time in the air.
* This
master-piece of art naturally reminds us of the
desire of man, in all ages, to become a rival of the
birds of the air, as swimming and the art of navi­
gating in the waters have enabled him to become
the rival of the inhabitants of the rivers and seas.
We need not mention the story of Daedalus and
Icarus, as an example. Daedalus, pursued by Mi­
nos, for having betrayed to Theseus the secret of
the windings and openings of the labyrinth of
Crete, flew from that island with his son ;f but his
wings were sails, which he was the first in Greece
to apply to barks, while the vessels of his persecu­
tor were only rowed with oars. It is probable
that he learned the use of sails in Egypt, as he had
borrowed from that country the idea of the con­
struction of the labyrinth. But if we turn our eyes
toward the East—which we shall often have occa­
sion to do—an author, although we must admit
that he is not much to be relied upon,| describes a
statue of Apollo, which, when carried in religious
ceremonies by the priests of the god, raised itself
in the air and fell again on exactly the same spot
from which it had been carried—a feat similar to
that which may be seen performed by any aeronaut
in our public gardens. Narratives, the origin of
which is certainly very ancient, furnish us, also,
with two facts which should not be passed over in
silence. The one describes a flying chariot, which
discoveries in practical mechanics, and to have been also a pro­
found statesman and a skillful general. Beside the wooden dove,
he invented the screw, the crane, and various hydraulic machines.
He perished by shipwreck, on the coast of Apulia.—Ed.
* A. Gell., Noct. Attic., lib. x., cap. xiii.
t Heraclit., De Politiis. verb. Icarus. It is supposed that their
sails were their cloaks elevated on oars, and that the son, having
exercised less skill than his father, in managing his bark, was
wrecked on the coast of Icaria.—Ed.
t Le traite de le diesse de Syrie.
Digitized by
246 MECHANICAL AGENCIES.
a man directed through the air as he pleased, and
which was exhibited as a master-piece of art, and
not of magic.
* The other states, that beneath a
balloon was attached a little car, in which a man
placed himself, and the balloon, shooting up into
the air rapidly, transported the traveler wherever
he desires to go.t
What shall we conclude from these recitals?
There can be only one conclusion—namely, that
the performances of this description of mechanism
may probably be assigned to an epoch even more
remote than that of Archytas and that the Ta-
rentine, the disciple of Pythagoras, who was him­
self the disciple of the sages of the East, perhaps
only excited the admiration of Italy by secrets
acquired in the temples of Memphis or of Babylon.
* Les Mille et un Jours, jours cx-cxv.
t Les Mille et une Nuits, 556e nuit, tome vi., pp. 144-146.
t It is a curious fact, that, notwithstanding the efforts which
were made at various periods to enable men to raise themselves
in the atmosphere, the first aerial voyage in Europe did not take
place until the year 1783, when the Mongolfiers, paper manufac­
turers at Annonay, near Lyons, raised a paper balloon of twenty-
three thousand French cubic feet ofcapacity, filled with air rarified
by heat in a chaffer placed below the mouth of the balloon. It rose
with great force and rapidity to an elevation of ten thousand
toises; but, as the air soon cooled, it gradually descended. It
was, however, thought imprudent to risk human life in these bal­
loons, and even in those filled with hydrogen gas, when it was
first employed; but,on the 15th of October, 1783, M. Pilatre de
Rozier ascended in a Mongolfier, held by ropes, to the height of
one hundred feet; and on the 2d of November, of the same year,
M. Pilatre and the Marquis d’Arlander left the earth in a free
balloon, and descended, after traveling five thousand toises. The
possibility of traveling in this manner being thus established,
aerostation has gradually improved; but although aeronauts can
now rise and descend at pleasure, yet they are not able to direct
a balloon in the manner of a vessel: they are, therefore, at the con­
trol of every current of air into which the balloon is carried.—Ed.
Google
MECHANICAL AGENCIES. 247
CHAPTER XII.
Acoustics.—ImitationofThunder.—Organs.—ResoundingChests.
—Androides, or Speaking-Heads.—The Statue of Memnon.
Imposture always betrays itself. However
much the mind of the candidate might have been
preoccupied, the creaking of the pulleys, the coil­
ing of cordage, the clicking of wheels, and the
noise of the machines, must necessarily have struck
upon his ear, and 'disclosed the weak hand of man
in those exhibitions, which were intended to excite
admiration as the work of supernatural powers.
This danger was felt and foreseen; but far from
seeking to deaden the sound of the machines, those
who worked them studied to augment it, sure of
increasing the terror intended to be excited. The
tremendous thunder accompanied with lightning
was regarded by the vulgar as the arm of the
avenging gods; and the Thaumaturgists were care­
ful to make it heard when they spoke in the name
of the gods.
The labyrinth of Egypt inclosed many palaces
so constructed that their doors could not be opened
without the most terrific report of thunder resound­
ing from within.
* When Darius, the son of Hys-
taspes, mounted the throne, his new subjects fell
prostrate before him, and worshiped him as the
elect of the gods, and as a god himself; and at the
same moment, thunder rolled, and they saw the
lightning flash.f
The art of charming the ears was as important
to the Thaumaturgists as alarming the multitude
with awful noises. Pausanias, who seriously re-
* Plin., Hut. Nat., lib, xxxvi., cap. xiii.
t Tzetzes, Chiliad.
Digitized by Gooqlc
248 MECHANICAL AGENCIES.
counts so many fabulous miracles, nevertheless
taxes Pindar with having invented the fable of the
golden virgins, who were endowed with a ravishing
voice, and, according to the Theban poet, adorned
the roof of the temple of Delphi.
* Less incredu­
lous than Pausanias, we may suppose that behind
the statues of the virgins, or within the gilded bas-
relievos, was concealed a musical instrument, the
sounds of which imitated the human voice. A
simple organ would suffice for this purpose, and
hydraulic organs were well known to the ancients.
A passage in the writings of St. Augustin seems
even to indicate that organs with blowers were not
unknown to them.
An invention much less familiar is noticed in the
history of a wonderful stone, said to have been
found in the Pactolus. This stone, when placed
at the entrance to a treasure, kept away thieves,
whose fears were aroused by hearing the loudest
tones of a trumpet issue from it.t There are
strong coffers made at the present day, which,
when clandestinely opened, produce loud sounds.^
The Phrygian inventor of the first of these won­
ders of mechanism had, perhaps, as we are led to
believe, veiled his secret under a fable; for, if h$
had described it literally, it would not have been
credited that a stone found on the shore, or the
neighboring mountains of Pactolus, could possess
such a power. As to its properties of sound, they
were only possessed in common with the sounding­
stone preserved at Megara ;§ the red granite of
Egypt; the stones employed in China for making
* Pausanias, Phocic., cap. v.
t Treatise on Rivers and Mountains, attributed to Plutarch,
§ viii.
t Louis XV. possessed one, and one was offered to Napoleon
in 1809.
§ Pausanias, Attic., cap. xiii.
Digitized by Google
MECHANICAL AGENCIES. 240
musical instruments; the sparkling green stone, of
which a statue found in the ruins of Palenqui-viejo
was made ;
* and the basalt, of which there are
large blocks existing in Brazil, from which a very-
distinct sound is awakened whenever they are
struck.! The rest is due to ignorance and a love
of the marvelous.
It is often related in ancient history, that distinct
words have been uttered by a child at the moment
of its birth ; that trees also, and statues have spo­
ken ; and that sounds have been spontaneously
uttered in the somber gloom of a temple. The
phenomena of ventriloquism affords a satisfactory-
explanation for many of these stories, but not for
all of them. It is therefore more natural to admit
that these sounds, the origin of which is not per­
ceptible, are the effects of art; and to attribute
these to the invention of the Androides, which,
although, in our own times, explained in well
known works,| yet has, under the name of the In­
visible Girl, excited the admiration of the vulgar^
and even of those who are unwilling to class them­
selves among the ignorant. Questions are ad­
dressed, in a low tone, to a doll, or a head made
of card-board or of metal, or even to a glass-box;
in a short time replies are heard which appear to
proceed from the inanimate object. Acoustics
teaches us the methods which enable a person, at
some distance, to hear and to be heard as distinctly
as if he occupied the place whence the doll appa­
rently speaks. It is not at all a modern invention;
for more than two centuries have elapsed since
Porta§ explained the principles of this invention in
* Revue Encyclopedique, tome xxxi., p. 850.
t Mawe’s Journey into the Interior of Brazil, vol. i.» chap, v.,
p. 158.
t Encyclopedic, art. Androide.
$ Giambalista Porta, a Neapolitan, in the sixteenth century^
Digitized by C.ooQle
250 SPEAKING-HEADS AND STATUES.
his Natural Magic:
* but, in more ancient times,
its principles were kept secret, and only the won­
ders performed by it presented for the admiration
of the multitude.
Toward the end of the fourteenth century, a
speaking-head, made of earthen ware, excited in
England the astonishment of the curious. The
one made by Albertus Magnus,t in the thirteenth
wrote, at a very early age, the first books of his work on Natural
Magic, which accounts for the many absurd and fantastic notions
which, mixed up with deductions of true science, they contain. He
was, however, a man of learning and genius, and did much in his
time to forward the pursuit of science. He invented the camera
obscura. His “ Magia Naturali
* ” is a compilation from both an­
cient and modern authors, and contains much curious matter,
badly put together. Beside many philosophical treatises, he
wrote several dramatic works.—Ed.
* Porta, De Magia Naturali. Panicrol. Rerum recent invent.
Giambatitta, tit. x. For the explanation of the Invisible Girl, see
Brewster’s Letter
* on Natural Magic.
t Albertus, sumamed Magnus, from the Latinizing of his sur­
name, which was Great, was a native of Suabia, and bomin 1205.
He was ardently desirous of acquiring knowledge, and studied
with assiduity; but being of slow comprehension, his progress
was not adequate to his expectations; and, therefore, in despair,
he resolved to relinquish books, and bury himself in retirement.
One night, however, he saw a vision of a beautiful woman, who
accosted him, and inquired the cause of his grief. He replied,
that in spite of all his efforts to acquire information, he feared he
should always remain ignorant. “ Have you so little faith,” re­
plied the lady, “as to suppose that your prayers will not obtain
what you can not of yourself accomplish ? lam the Holy Virgin,
and I have heard your prayers.” The young man prostrated him­
self at the feet of the Virgin, who promised him all that he de­
sired, but added that, as he preferred philosophy to theology, he
should lose his faculties before his death. She then disappeared,
and the prediction was accomplished. Albertus became unwill­
ingly Bishop of Ratisbon, but he relinquished the see within three
years, and resided chiefly at Cologne, where he produced many
wonderful works. It was said that he constructed an automaton
which both walked and spoke, answered questions, and solved
problems submitted to it. Thomas Aquinas, who was the pupil
of Albertus, was so alarmed on seeing this automaton, which ne
conceived to be the work of the devil, that he broke it to pieces
and committed it to the flames. When William, Count of Hol­
land and King of the Romans, was at Cologne, Albertus invited
him to a banquet, and promised that bis table should be laid out
Digitized by C.ooQle
SPEAKING-HEADS AND STATUES. 251
century, was of the same material. Gerbert, who,
under the name of Sylvester II., occupied the pa­
pal throne from the years 991 to 1003, constructed
a brazen head possessing a similar property.
*
This master-piece of art was the cause of his be­
ing accused of magic; perhaps the accusation was
not unfounded, if they applied the same meaning
to the word as we do; it was the result of science
concealed from the knowledge of the common
people.
The philosophers, in these inventions, made no
new discovery; they had received from their an­
cient predecessors a secret which surpassed and
alarmed the weak understanding of their cotempo­
raries.
Odin, who implanted among the Scandinavians
a religion and magical secrets borrowed from Asia,
possessed a speaking-head. It was said to be the
head of the wise Mirme, which Odin, after the
death of that hero, had caused to be encased in
gold. He consulted it, and the replies which he
was supposed to have received were revered as the
oracles of a superior being.
Beside the Northern legislator there were oth­
ers who had endeavored to render credulity more
eager and submissive, by asserting that the speak­
ing-heads they served had always been animated
by the spirits of living men.
We shall not, however, quote, in this sense, the
in the rfliddle of his garden, although it was then winter, and se­
vere weather. William accepted the invitation ; and, on arriving
at the house of Albertus, was surprised to find the temperature
of the afr as mild as in summer, and the banquet laid out in an
arbor formed of trees and shrubs covered with leaves and Howers,
exhaling the most delicious odors, which filled the whole of the
garden. Albertus was reputed a magician; but, nevertheless,
after his death, which occurred in 1292, in his seventy-seventh
year, he was canonized.—Ed.
* Elias Schedius, De Diie Germanie, pp. 572, 573.
Digitized by UooQle
252 SPEAKING-HEADS AND STATUES.
story of the child that was devoured whole by the
ghost of Polycritus, with the exception of its head,
which uttered prophecies that were afterward ver­
ified:
* this fable is most probably an allegory.
But at Lesbos a speaking-head delivered oracles:
it predicted to the great Cyrus (in rather equivocal
terms, it is true) the bloody death which should
terminate his expedition against the Scythians. It
was the head of Orpheus; and it was so celebrated
for its oracular responses among the Persians, and
also among the Greeks, from the time of the Tro­
jan war, that Apollo himself became jealous of its
fame.t
According to many Rabbins, the Theraphim
consisted of the embalmed heads of the dead, un­
der whose tongues a thin plate of gold was fixed,|
and, like the head of Mirme, also encased in gold;
Other Rabbins report that the Tberaphim were
phantoms, who, having received the influence of
powerful stars, conversed with men and gave them
wholesome advice.§ We are led from the expres­
sions of Maimonides, on this subject, to infer that
buildings were erected expressly to contain these
speaking-images; a circumstance which explains
why so much care was taken to place the images
against the wall—a certain position being abso­
lutely necessary to produce an apparent miracle
depending on acoustics. This miracle was not
unknown in that country of wonders, whence the
Hebrews acquired their knowledge. The priests
♦ Phlegon, De Mirabilibus.—Noel, Dictionnaire de la Fable, art.
Polycrite.
t Philostrat., Vit. Apollon., lib. iv., cap. iv.—Philostrat., Heroic
in Philoctete.
t Fromann, Tract, de Faec., pp. 682, 683.
§ R. Maimonides, More Nevochim, part iii., cap. xxx. “ Et cedi
*
ficaverunt palatia et poeuerunt in eis imagine!.”—Elias Schediu%
De Diis Germanic, pp. 568, 569.
Digitized by UooQle
SPEAKING-HEADS AND STATUES. 253
(Mercurius Trismegistus
* is our authority) pos­
sessed the art of making godst and statues endow­
ed with understanding, who predicted future events
and interpreted dreams. It was even asserted that
the Theurgists, who were addicted to doctrines less
pure, knew also how to make gods and statues an­
imated by demons, that were little inferior in their
supernatural powers to those made by the real
priests. In other words, the same physical se­
crets were known and practiced by the rival priest­
hoods.
The ancients, as we are informed, were acquaint­
ed with the art of constructing Androides,$ and
this art has been preserved and handed down to
our workshops from their temples. Through the
dark period of the Middle Ages, we draw this con­
clusion from what has preceded; and it seems
more admissible than the supposition of impostures
and gross deceptions^ constantly renewed. We
may inquire whether it was an application of sci­
ence, superior or equal to those we have enumer­
ated, that produced in Egypt the wonder of the
statue of Memnon, which every morning raised its
harmonious voice to welcome the rising sun ? Was
* The Egyptian Hennes, who is reported to have invented
writing, and first taught astrology and the science of astronomy.
—Ed.
t “ Artem qua deos efficient.” Mercurii Trismegisti, Pymander.
Asclepius, pp. 145,146, et 165 (in 12mo., Basile®, 1532).
t We believe this explanation sufficient; but to render it more
complete, we may cite the speaking-heads presented by the Abbd
Mical to the Academic des Sciences, in 1783. They pronounced
words and phrases, but did not produce an exact imitation of the
human voice.
§ Far from exaggerating the knowledge possessed by the an­
cients in acoustics, we do not go so far as Fontenelle, who sus­
pects (Histoire des Oracles, part i., chap, xiii.) that the ancient
priests were acquainted with the use of the speaking-trumpet.
Kircher thinks Alexander made use of a speaking-trumpet, that
he might be heard at the same moment by the whole of his army.
It does not seem very probable.
t Digitized by
254 SPEAKING-HEADS AND STATUES.
the secret of this apparent miracle derived from an
art ingeniously concealed, or only from a phenom­
enon, which the spectators, eager for miracles, did
not attempt to unfathom 1 It seems to me that all
the conjectures that have been hazarded on this
subject are reduced to this alternative.
*
* Encyclop. Math^nxt. Androids. f Letters on Natural Magic, p.204.
The second supposition furnishes us with another
example of the artifice which the priests employed
to convert into apparent miracles extraordinary
facts, calculated to astonish the vulgar. The first
opinion has been adopted by many cotemporary
authors; and it was what I believe the priests
themselves were anxious should prevail.
Juvenal denominates the sounds that issued from
the statue magical ;t and we have mentioned that
among the ancients magic was the art of working
wonders by scientific means, unknown to the mul­
titude. A scholiast of the Latin satirist is still
more explicit; for, in commenting on this passage,
he speaks of the wonderful mechanism in the con-
* See note B, vol. ii., on the statue of Memnon. Wonderful as
many of the automata of the ancients were, they yield the palm
to some of the modem. I must refer the reader to Dr. Brewster’s
“Letters on Natural Magic” for a description of several, and
among them the Automaton Chess-Player, which was some years
since exhibited in London, and excited much astonishment. I
shall notice here only the Flute-Player of Vaucauson, which was
exhibited in Paris in 1736. It was seen and described by M. d’Al­
embert,
* who says, “it really played on the flute;” that is, it
projected the air with its lips against the embouchure, producing
the different octaves by expanding and contracting their opening,
forcing more or less air, in the manner of living performers, and
regulating the tones by its Angers. It commanded these octaves,
the fullest scale of the instrument, containing several notes of
great difficulty to most performers. It articulated the notes with
the lips. Its height was nearly five and a half feet, and was
placed on a pedestal, in which some of the machinery was con­
tained. Dr. Brewstert has given a popular description of the ma­
chinery.—Ed.
t “ Dimidio magica resonant ubi Memnone chorda.”
Digitized by Google
OPTICAL EXHIBITIONS. 255
etruction of the statue ;
* and adds that its voice
was clearly the result of the working of machinery.
When this writer thus reduced to the performance
of mechanism the wonder of Memnon’s statue, he
spoke undoubtedly from the authority of ancient
tradition. This tradition, however, never lessened
the sentiments of admiration and piety, which were
awakened by the sacred voice in the souls of its
auditors :t they recognized in it a miracle accord­
ing to the primitive meaning of the word—a won­
derful circumstance, the invention of which they
delighted to ascribe to the inspiration of the gods,
but which, we need scarcely add, was not at all
supernatural. In the end, the idea of its divine
origin darkened the minds of the multitude; and,
perhaps, without the priest having attempted to
deceive the worshipers, this wonder of art would
have become transformed into a religious prodigy,
which was every day renewed.
CHAPTER XIII.
Optics.—Effects similar to those exhibited in the modern Dio­
ramas and Phantasmagorias.—Apparitions of the Gods, and
Shades of the Dead.—The Camera Obscura.—Magicians chan­
ging their Appearances and their Forms is an incredible Miracle.
All our senses are tributary to the empire of
the marvelous; the eye is more so than the ear.
By too much prolongation, agreeable sounds lose
their charm—loud, fear-inspiring noises become
merely deafening, and miraculous voices become
* Quoted by J. Phil. Casselius, Dissertation nr les pierres wca-
les ou parlances, p. 8.—Langles, Dissertation sur la statue vocals de
Memnon.—Voyage de Norden, tome ii., p. 237.
t See the inscriptions engraved on the colossal statue. M. Le
Tronne has reunited and explained them in a work entitled, La
Statue de Memnon (in 4to., Paris, 1833), pp. 113-240.
Digitized by Google
OPTICAL EXHIBITIONS.
256
suspected; but optical illusions, though succeeding
each other without a pause, never fail to keep up
the attention of the individual eager after novel
spectacles: their variety and their contrasts leave
no space for reflection, nor cause any fatigue in
beholding them.
From the nature of some optical wonders dis­
played in the assumed miracles of the Thaumatur-
gists, and in the pompous and terrible representa­
tions of mysteries and initiations, we are authorized
to conclude that the aid of scientific resources was
requisite for carrying them into effect. The an­
cients were acquainted with the mode offabricating
mirrors, which presented the images multiplied or
reversed; and, what is more remarkable, in certain
positions lost entirely the property of reflecting. It
is unimportant whether the latter peculiarity de­
pended solely on sleight of hand, or was analogous
to polarized light,
* which, reaching the reflecting
body under a certain angle, is absorbed without
producing any image. It is very evident that, in
either case, the employment of Such mirrors was
well fitted to give birth to numerous apparent mir­
acles. Aulus Gellius,! quoting Varro, informs us
* On the supposition that light consists of particles of matter
transmitted from the sun and luminous bodies, in rectilinear
directions or straight lines, its polarization is the effect produced
upon these particles by the attraction exercised upon them by
the particles of what are called doubly refracting crystals, and
certain reflecting surfaces, when the particles of light pass
through the former, or fall upon the latter at a particular angle.
—Ed.
t Aul. Gell., Noct. Attic., lib. xvi., cap. xviii. The following is
the termination of the Latin passage: “ Ut speculum in loco certo
positum nihil imaginet; aliorsum translatum facial imagines.” The
compiler, repeating what he has not proved, believes that the
phenomenon belongs to the place, and not to the position of the
mirror.
Aulus Gellius, a celebrated Roman grammarian, was bom at
Rome, in the commencement of the second century, and died in
the reign of the Emperor Marcus Aurelius. His “Nodes Attic
* ”
Digitized by UooQle
OPTICAL EXHIBITIONS. 257
of these facts; at the same time he considers the
study of such curious phenomena as unworthy the
attention of a philosopher. From whatever may
have given rise to an opinion so unreasonable, yet
so universal, even among the enlightened classes
of the ancients, and held by Archimedes himself,
*
its vast advantage to the Thaumaturgists is easily
perceived. Had those who, under the enlightening
influence of increasing civilization, were the re­
formers of science devoted their efforts to the
experimental elucidation of phenomena, instead of
confining themselves to theoretical inquiries, the
were written in the. winter evenings, while he was in Attica, to
amuse his children. The work is a medley of history, anec­
dotes, poetry, and dissertations on philosophy, geometry, and
grammar; but it often affords good explanations of antique
monuments.—Ed.
* Although the wonders related as having been achieved by
this extraordinary mathematician have been probably exagger
*
ated, yet there can be only one opinion of his advance far beyond
the period in which he lived, in every branch of physical science.
Independent of the machinery which he is said to have employed
to lift out of the water, and again drop into it, the barks that
constituted the fleet of Marcellus, the Roman consul, when he be­
sieged Syracuse, the burning mirrors which he constructed to set
on fire the enemy’s fleet is a sufficient proof of his acquirements.
According to Tzetzes, the historian, who has recorded the events
of the siege, “ when the fleet of Marcellus was within bow-shot,
the old man, Archimedes, brought an hexagonal mirror, which
he had previously prepared, at a proper distance from which he
also placed other smaller mirrors ot the same kind, that moved
in all directions on hinges; and when placed in the sun’s rays,
directed them upon the Roman fleet, whereby it was burned to
ashes.” The screw known by his name, and now employed in­
stead of paddles in steam navigation, and the art of determining
the value of metals by their relative specific gravity, are among
the inventions ascribed to Archimedes. His acquaintance with
the power of the lever led him to make this celebrated declara­
tion—“ Give me the place on which I may stand, and I will
move the earth.” He was so deeply engaged in solving a problem
when the Roman soldiers entered Syracuse, that he was not
aware of their being in possession of the town; and a soldier, not
knowing who he was, killed him, although Marcellus had given
orders intended to secure the safety of the philosopher. His
death occurred two hundred and twelve years before the birth
of Christ.—Ed.
I. R
Digitized by UooQle
258 OPTICAL EXHIBITIONS.
miraculous secrets of the charlatan could no longer
have merited the name of magic.
The luxurious gardens, the magnificent palaces,
which in the initiations suddenly appeared from
the depths of obscurity, brilliantly illuminated by
magic light, or, as it were, by a sun of their own,
*
are reproduced for us in the justly admired modern
invention of the Diorama. The principal artifice
lies in the manner of throwing light upon the
objects, while the spectator is kept in darkness.
This was not difficult, as the initiated hurried from
one subterraneous apartment to another; and, be­
ing now elevated in the air, and again suddenly
precipitated, be might easily imagine himself to be
still in the bowels of the earth, from the obscurity
of the place that inclosed him, although on the level
of the ground. And how, we may inquire, could
it happen that the Thaumaturgist, whose whole
aim was to discover means of multiplying his
wonders, could remain unacquainted with this in­
vention 1 Observation was sufficient to reveal it,
without any effort of art. If a long gallery was
terminated by an arbor of umbrageous trees, and
the gallery lighted at one extremity only, the land­
scape beyond the arbor would appear nearer,
and display itself to the eye of a spectator like the
picture in a Diorama.
*....................Solem (pie sttum, tua lumina nonmt.
Virgil, ^Eneid, lib. vi., ver. 641.
+ The cloister of Saint Wandrille, near Rouen.
The illusion was susceptible of being increased,
by the union of mechanical agents aiding the effects
of painting and of perspective. Thus, in the dio­
rama, exhibited in Paris, in 1826, representing a
ruined cloister,! a door was violently closed and
opened, as if from the effects of a strong wind.
When open, an extensive, beautiful country was
Digitized by Google
OPTICAL EXHIBITIONS. 259
seen beyond it; shadows were cast, by trees, on
the old walls, more or less deep, according as the
clouds flew rapidly across the sky above the ruins,
and might be supposed occasionally to interrupt,
more or less, the light of the sun. When this arti­
fice, however little it is estimated by the severer
votaries of the Fine Arts, transported the credulous
spectator to the interior of a sanctuary, and dis­
played before him, excited as he was by other appa­
rent miracles, would he have had the smallest doubt
regarding the reality of the appearances; or, that
they were true representations of animated nature?
Apparitions, although the most common of mir­
acles founded on optics, have obtained the greatest
celebrity.
In very remote times, and under the empire of
unprogressing civilization, it was believed that every
man who had seen a god must die, or at least lose
the use of his eyes. This singular belief, the cause
of which we shall notice elsewhere, and the dread
it excited in the ardent imaginations of the enthu­
siastic, yielded in time, owing to the direct com­
munication with the object of bis adoration, which
circumstances afforded. Apparitions of the gods,
far from being dreaded, were deemed significant
of their favor, and hallowed the place where they
received the homage of mortals. The temple of
Enguinum, in Sicily, was revered, not so much on
account of its antiquity, as because it had been
occasionally favored by the apparition of the god­
dess-mother.
* jEsculapius had a temple at Tar­
sus, where he frequently manifested himself to his
worshipers.! Cicero mentions frequent apparitions
of the gods.f And Varro, quoted by St. Augus­
* Plutarch, in Vit. Marcell.
+ Philostrat., in Vit. Apollon., lib. i., cap, v,
t Cicer., De natur. Dwr., lib ii.
Digitized by Google
260 INVOCATIONS OF THE DEAD.
tin,
* affirms that Numa and Pythagoras saw im­
ages of the gods in the water, and that this kind of
divination had been brought from Persia into Italy,
as well as the art of causing apparitions of the
dead.! In fact, these two arts ought to form but
* St. Augustin, De civitate Dei, lib. vii., cap. xxxv.
t The efficacy of invocation of the dead is not doubted by St.
Justin. (Pro Chrietianu, Apoll. ii.) In the dialogue with the Jew
Tryphon, this father of the Church acknowledges that the souls
of the just, and of the prophets, are subject to the power of the
Psychagogues, as the soul of Samuel obeyed the witch of Endor.
The ancient Greeks, who obtained their theology from the
Egyptians; the Romans, who procured theirs from the Greeks;
and the northern nations, who followed the superstitions of both,
were firm believers that the souls of the dead revisited the earth,
and appeared to the living; and that magicians had the power
of calling them up. They also believed that the spirits of the
departed were capable of foretelling future events. Spirits were,
therefore, apparently called, and the images of the dead pre­
sented to the eyes of the living. It was not essential that these
should necessarily be deceptions of the priests; for when the
mind is prepared for them, and the nervous system is in an ex­
citable state, spectral phantasms are both seen and heard.
It is unnecessary to insert here any of the many thousand tales
of apparitions which have been recorded both in ancient and in
modern times, in every counter in both hemispheres of the
globe ; my object being to explain these spectral phantasms, not
to relate instances of them, except such as may be useful for the
illustration of my argument. I contend that these phantasms
never occur in a healthy condition of the brain and nervous
system, which, in order to produce them, must be either tran­
siently or permanently excited.
Under transient changes from the normal state of the nervous
system, if these have been produced by an exciting agent, all
ordinary sensations are felt with an increased intensity; and,
consequently, in certain states of the habit, impressions of former
things, by the influence of association alone, awakened, as it
were, by incidental circumstances, become so vivid to the mind,
that they appear as actual impressions perceived at the moment
through the organ of sight. The inhalation of some gases, as,
for instance, nitrous oxide, and the excitement of the mind by
expectation, will produce such a change in the nervous centers as
will cause either the most pleasurable or the most frightful
sensations to be experienced, accompanied with vivid images
of a corresponding character. The delirium of a fever is an
augmented derangement of the nervous system ; during the con­
tinuance of which, images of persons, often long before dead, be­
came vivid to the eye, and their voices audible to the ear, so that
the patient sees them, and holds conversation with them, and
Digitized by Google
INVOCATIONS OF THE DEAD. 261
one; and we find them in Asia, long before the
age of Numa, or of Pythagoras. The witch of
Endor, who summoned before Saul the shade of
Samuel, declared she saw gods rising out of the
can only be aroused from the reverie by some one really speak­
ing to him, and for a moment interrupting the morbid association
of ideas, into which, however, he relapses, as soon as his atten­
tion ceases to be directed into a new channel. Such spectral
illusions occurring independent of fever, in a highly susceptible
frame, operate so energetically on the brain, as to make impres­
sions sufficiently powerful to nroduce disease, and even to de­
stroy life, when a confirmed belief in their reality exists. Many
cases might be quoted corroborative of this opinion. I will men­
tion two only. A distinguished physician having suffered great
fatigue from a long, professional journey, during which he had
taken scarcely any nourishment, after seeing his patient, retired
to his sleeping apartment, and sat down before the fire, previously
to undressing and going to bed. He had not sat long before he
imagined he saw the door of the room open, and a little old
woman, dressed in a scarlet riding-habit, enter, leaning on a
crutch. She advanced toward him, and raising her crutch, gave
him a blow with it upon the head. He fell to the ground, and
lay a considerable time insensible; but, on recovering his senses,
he became conscious that he had had an epileptic fit, and that
the little woman was a mere spectral illusion. The daughter of
Sir Charles Law, being awake about two o’clock in the morning,
saw close to her bed the apparition of a little woman, who told
her that she was her deceased mother; that she was happy, and
at twelve o’clock that day she should be with her. On receiving
this information, the young lady called her maid to bring her
clothes; and when she was dressed, she went into her closet,
and did not leave it until nine, and then brought with her a sealed
letter, addressed to her father, which she delivered to her aunt,
the Lady Everard, told her what had happened, and desired that
as soon as she was dead it might be sent to him. She requested
the chaplain to read prayers to her; and, when these were ended,
she took her guitar and psalm-book, and sat down upon a chair,
“ and played and sung so melodiously and admirably, that her
music-master, who was then there, admired at it. And near the
stroke of twelve, she rose and sat herself down in a great chair
with arms; and fetching a strong breathing or two, expired/’
In the first of these two cases, the physician was a man of strong
mind, and possessed of that knowledge which enabled him to
refer the illusion to a temporary physical change in his nervous
system, and therefore to disregard it. The lady was a person of
delicate frame of body and highly susceptible nervous system,
with a corresponding degree of superstitious credulity, which
induced her to believe that the illusion was truly a visitation of
her deceased mother, the overpowering effect of which upon the
Digitized by C.ooQle
262 INVOCATIONS OF THE DEAD.
earth.
* This expression, repeated more than once
in the text, serves to interpret a passage in Pliny,
where he speaks of a seat, made of a consecrated
stone, and placed in the ancient temple of Her­
cules at Tyre, from which “the gods arose,” or,
in other words, from which miraculous apparitions
appeared to issue.!
* 1 Samuel, cap. xxviii.
t Plin., Hist. Nat., lib. xxvii., cap. xl.—Eusebius, Ex co Lapids
......... facta sedes, ex qua DUfacile surgebant.
Among a people situated far from Asia, but one
of whose colonies occupied a part of the shores of
the Euxine, traditions and secrets exist referring
to the art of questioning the dead. In the Hervo-
rar Saga, we find a Scandinavian poet clothing in
exalted poetry the invocations to a warrior killed
in battle; the long resistance by which he opposed
the demand made to him to yield; the menacing
predictions which be uttered, and by which he
threatened vengeance for the violence of his death.
An art transmitted by Persia to Italy was not
brain was sufficient to verify the prediction. To the same cause
may be referred the well known death of the libertine Lord
Lyttleton.
When the derangement of the nerves is of a more permanent
nature, it is frequently productive of that description of nypochon-
driacism which borders upon insanity, but differs from it m the pa­
tient not believing in the reality of the spectral phantasms, which
are generally also of a different character, not transient visitations,
but continued illusions. I was acquainted with a young lady,
who imagined that she was constantly attended by a small, black
dog, which ran by her side when she walked out, and sat on a
table or on a chair, near her, at home. Sir Walter Scott, in his
u Demonology,” details the case of a gentleman who imagined
that a little, smartly dressed fop always attended him in the ca­
pacity of a master of ceremonies, and, after some length of time,
changed into a skeleton, which always remained near him, night
and day. He was sensible both were illusions, but the distressing
character and the constancy of the latter, brought on a state of
irritative fever, which terminated fatally.
Looking at these conditions of the nervous system, and their
results, I have no hesitation in referring to them every tale of
apparitions, however well authenticated, ancient or modern.—
Digitized by Google
INVOCATIONS OF THE DEAD. 263
likely to remain unknown in Greece; and, at a
very early period, we find traces of it there. “ Or­
pheus, inconsolable for the death of Eurydice,” re­
sorted to Aornos,
* where stood a sanctuary (Ne-
kyomantion) for the invocation of the dead. He
was led to imagine that he was followed by the
shade of Eurydice; but on turning, and finding
himself deceived, he committed suicide.! This
historical explanation of the fable of Orpheus re­
veals to us the curious fact of the existence, in an­
cient times, of places specially consecrated to the
invocations of the dead, and the apparition of
spirits.
Sometimes these shades were dumb; but more
frequently the engastrimysme, which was employed
by the sorceress consulted by Saul, generally fur­
nished them with speech, and enabled them to
utter oracles. This conjecture, not easily set aside,
throws a new light on the eleventh Book of the
Odyssey. There Homer describes the admission
of Ulysses, and of him alone,| into a Nekyoman-
tion, where he converses with his friends, who
have been separated from him by death. An in­
numerable multitude of apparitions and a terrific
noise interrupted this marvelous discourse; and
Ulysses retires, dreading lest Proserpine, enraged,
might, from the depths of the infernal regions, cause
the head of the Gorgon to appear.§ Such was,
probably, the method put in practice, in order to
* Aomos was situated in Thesprotia, and was the place of a
celebrated oracle, which delivered responses by calling up the
dead. But the whole story of Eurydice is properly regarded as
a mere allegorical allusion to events connected with the religious
observances which Orpheus attempted to establish, and the moral
instruction which he taught, in opposition to the Bacchanalian
mysteries, and their gross immoralities.—Ed.
t Pausanias, Baeotic., cap. xxx.
j Odysx., lib. X., v. 528.
§ Odys
*
., lib. xi., vers. 631-634.
Digitized by UooQle
264 INVOCATIONS OF THE DEAD.
get rid of the spectators, as soon as their curiosity
*
became embarrassing, or was prolonged beyond
the resources for the exhibition.
It is into one of these that Achilles is introduced
by Homer, extolling life as the greatest blessing
*
,
preferring the most miserable lot of a living man
before his own imperishable celebrity.
* The in­
consistency of the spirit of Achilles with the es­
tablished character of the intrepid warrior has been
severely criticised. As a poetic fiction it may be
open to censure, but it is to be admired for its fidel­
ity as a narration. An epoch existed, and it was,
in Greece, still recent at the date of the siege of
Troy, in which the priesthood, till then command­
ing exclusively the veneration of men, became in­
dignant, in seeing the warriors crowned with any
other titles than those of courage and strength, and
those which their battles claimed for them ; recog­
nized as the children of divinities, as demi-gods and
heroes ; and occupying the admiration and influ­
ence which they conceived to be due only to the
possessors of the magical art. What doctrines,
conveyed by religious revelation, was it their inter­
est to promulgate 1 Such, undoubtedly, as were
best fitted to check the enthusiasm of the warrior.
And in Greece, with the refinement of art, they
adroitly chose the great soul of Achilles to be the
means of communicating that pusillanimous senti­
ment, which implies that “ a living dog is better
than a dead lion.”t At least two centuries subse­
quent to the travels of Ulysses, the same lesson
was inculcated on the warlike Arabs, in a work
evidently emanating from the theocratical school.
The dispute between the censer and the sword
appears to have been quite at an end, when Virgil
♦ Odyss., lib. xi., vers. 486-490.
t Ecclesiast., cap. ix., v. 4.
Digitized by Google
INVOCATIONS OF TUB DEAD. 265
undertook to tread in the steps of Homer: and the
poet would have gratuitously dishonored himself,
had he placed in his hero’s mouth words opposed
to the contempt of death. The sixth Book of the
JEneid is a magnificent picture of the most prom­
inent and dramatic scenes of initiation, rather than
a description of a Nekyomantion.
From the commencement of its purely historical
times, the art of invocation declined in Greece.
The last apparition that restored it to notice, was
that of Cleonice, who appeared to her murderer
Pausanias. Remorse and love drove this prince
to a Nekyomantion. There the Psychagogues
summoned the shade of Cleonice to appear before
him; the ambiguous answer he received from her
might be interpreted either as conveying the pardon
of Heaven, or the announcement of a violent death
to Pausanias, as the just punishment of his crimes.
*
* Pausanias, Laconic., cap. xvii.—Plutarch, De sera numinum
Vindicta.
t Cicer., Tuscul. Quast., lib. i., cap. xlii.—Plutarch, De Consola­
tion*.
t Cicer., De divinat., lib. i., cap. Iviii.—Tuscul. Quast., lib. i.,
cap. xvi. et xlviii.
Elysius of Therina, having lost an only son, and
desirous to invoke the spirit of this beloved child,
unexpectedly visited a Psychomantium; but as
there was no time to prepare an apparition, bear­
ing the resemblance to the object of his affection,
the bereaved father was obliged to rest satisfied
with an oracle which declared death to be the
greatest boon.f 9
We should be in error were we to conclude
from this fact, that the art had perished in Italy:
when Cicero wrote, it still existed in Rome; and
that author, in several places, speaks of experi­
ments in Psychomantics, to which his cotempo­
rary Appius was greatly addicted.^ Two centu-
Digitized by UooQle
266 INVOCATIONS OF THE DEAD.
ties later Caracalla invoked the shades of Commo-
dug and of Severus.
*
One cause, however, effectually operated to pre­
vent the people from frequenting the Nekyoman-
tions: namely, the terrible consequences which
sometimes arose from these apparitions. Those
that applied for them were not always mere rest­
less, inquisitive men, eager to dive into the secrets
of futurity; they were more frequently persons
like Orpheus or Elysius—beings full of love, and
deprived by death of the object that had engaged
their fondest affections. Thus the faithful wife of
Protesilaus, importuning the gods to grant her, but
for one moment, to behold again her husband who
had fallen on the shores of Troy, no sooner saw
his spirit, than, without hesitation, she endeavored
to follow him by precipitating herself into the
flames, and was destroyed. These apparitions
acting on broken hearts and exalted imaginations
at a crisis of grief, the sensitive being fled to death
as the greatest blessing, and with a strong convic­
tion that death would afford a reunion with the
dearer and better part of itself.
Nothing was more calculated to aid such a be­
lief than the apparition, which, in restoring for an
instant the semblance, seemed to point out the
road by which fondly remembered felicity might
be regained.
Disuse, however, although it threw into oblivion,
yet did not annihilate the secret of invoking appa­
ritions. In the second century, St. Justin mentions
invocations of the dead, as a fact which no one
thought of doubting.!
* Xiphilin, in Caracalla.—Dion., lib. Ixxvii.
+ St. Justin, Apologet., lib. ii. St. Justin, called the Philoso­
pher, was bom at Neapolis, the ancient capital of Samaria, early
tn the second century. He was educated in all the errors and
superstitionsofPaganism; butafterseekingfortruthintheschools,
Digitized by Gooqlc
INVOCATIONS OF THE DEAD. 267
Lactantius,
* in the third century, still more pos­
itively represents the magicians as always prepared
to convince the skeptical by apparitions of the
dead.f In the ninth century, the Emperor Basil,
the Macedonian, inconsolable for the death of his
son, had recourse to the prayers ofa pontiff already
celebrated for the power of working apparent mir­
acles.^ An image of this dear son, magnificently
appareled and mounted on a superb horse, was
made to appear before him; but the spectral son,
advancing toward him, disappeared, in the act of
rushing into his father’s arms. To explain this
historical extract, it is requisite to admit the im­
probable supposition, that a horseman was appoint­
ed to play the part of the young prince, as the re­
semblance must have been perfect; and would not
the father have seized, held, and folded him in his
he was converted to Christianity by an old man he met accident­
ally on the sea-shore; and he soon afterward went to Rome. His
previous education had conferred upon him the powers of elocu­
tion, in an eminent degree; and he employed it assiduously in pro­
moting and defending the faith he had adopted. Justin left Rome,
but returned; when he was arrested and carried before Rusticus,
the Roman prefect, who, after endeavoring to persuade him and
his companions to renounce Christianity, and return to the wor­
ship of the gods, and finding them immovable, condemned them
to oe scourged, and then beheaded ; a sentence which was imme­
diately executed. St. Justin’s martyrdom occurred in a.d. 164.
He wrote two works in support of Christianity, which he termed
“ Apologies the first was addressed to the Emperor Antoninus,
the second to Marcus Aurelius.—Ed.
* Caacilius Ferminius Lactantius was, in his youth, a disciple
of Anobeus, at Sicca in Africa, and celebrated as a Latin orator.
In 317, when an old man, he was appointed preceptor to Crispus
Cesar, the son of Constantine the Great; and in the execution of
that trust, he nearly fell a victim to a false accusation of the Em­
press Fausta, that he had made an attempt upon her chastity. He
early became a convert to the Christian faith; and, on account of
his eloquence, was called the “ Christian Tully.” He outlived
his royal pupil, and died at Triers.—Ed.
f Lactant., Div. institute lib. vii., cap. xiii.
t Theodore Santabaren, Abbot-Arcnbishop of Euchaites. See
Glycus, Anna!., part iv., p. 296»—Leo Grammat. in Vitd Basilii
$ 20,
268 INVOCATIONS OF THE DEAD.
embrace 1 And would not the false nature of the
apparition have been discovered and denounced
by the enemies of the Thaumaturgists,
* on the
knowledge of the existence of the man; and would
not the remarkable resemblance, which made him
of use on this occasion, have afterward discovered
him ?t
Connecting this fact with earlier traditions, and
particularly with the very ancient writers on the
Nekyomantions, is it not more consistent with
probability, to acknowledge that in our own days
the phantasmagoria has been only restored, not
invented,$ and to trace many of the apparitions of
the gods, and the invocations of the dead, to its de­
ceptions ;§ especially when we read of shades, en-
♦ The resemblance of a woman named Oliva, to the Queen
Marie Antoinette, aided, in 1785, the intrigue known by the name
of the Proces du Collier. But Oliva was soon arrested and tried.
The substitute for the son of the Greek emperor would have been
seized in like manner, by the rivals of Santabaren: for envy is as
clever and active as a police, especially at court.
t Sir David Brewster has explained the mode in which this ap­
parition was produced, by means of two concave mirrors reflect­
ing the image of a picture of the emperor’s son on horseback, as
if in the air. As the picture was approached toward the first
mirror, the image appeared to advance into the father’s arms;
when it was withdrawn, it of course eluded his grasp.—Ed. See
Letters on Natural Magic, p. 68.
t See in the Souvenirs d'un homme de cour, tome i., pp. 324-329,
the account of a phantasmagoric apparition, which dates about
the middle of the eighteenth century. It consisted particularly
in giving the appearance of life and motion to figures on tapestry.
§ Pythagoras taught that the spirits of the dead do not wink
with their eyes. The assertion is just, says our author; as this
movement would be difficult to manage with a phantasmagoric
apparition. But the editor must remark that it is not so difficult;
and that it was executed to the life in the exhibition of M. Phil­
ipstai.
The phantasmagoria brought out in London in 1802, by M. Phil­
ipstai, Produced the most impressive, and, in some instances, ter­
rific effects upon the audiences who thronged to witness the ex­
hibition. The theater was in profound darkness, and the stage,
which represented a cavern with terrible figures and skeletons
displayed in relief upon its walls, was dimly seen through a gauze
Digitized by UooQle
INVOCATIONS OF THE DEAD. 269
glowed with a striking resemblance to the beings
or images they represent, suddenly vanishing from
the embrace that would retain them 1
We might borrow from P. Kircher
* a descrip­
tion of the instruments which probably formed the
phantasmagorias of the ancient temples: but it ■will
be more curious to display their effects as they
have been described by a disciple of the philosoph­
ical Theurgists. “ In a manifestation which must
not be revealed .... there appeared on the wall
of the temple a diffusive mass of light, which, in
becoming concentrated, assumed the appearance
of a face evidently divine and supernatural, severe
of aspect, but with a touch of gentleness, and very
beautiful to look upon. According to the dicta­
tion of their mysterious religion, the Alexandrians
screen, invisible to the audience, and upon which all the spectral
appearances were represented; and through which lightnings
flashed, while thunder, intended to prepare the mind for the ter­
rific exhibition, rolled over the heads of the spectators. The
figures thrown upon this screen were reflected from a concave
mirror, through double lenses, constituting the well known magic
lantern ; but modified in such a manner that they appeared to ad­
vance and recede; to dilate to a gigantic magnitude, and then
immediately diminish to the size of pigmies; to come forward
with all the appearance of real life, and on retiring, instantly to
return in the form of skeletons. Terrific heads, moving their
awful eyes and tremendous jaws, seemed close to the spectators’
eyes, then suddenly vanished ; and were succeeded by specters
and skeletons of the most frightful aspect. The writer of this
note saw this phantasmagoria, and can easily conceive the effect
which it is fitted to produce, when skillfully worked, upon igno­
rant and superstitious spectators. If we can suppose that the
ancients were acquainted with the influence of the combination
of mirrors and lenses, which admits of living objects instead of
pictures being employed, as described in “ Brewster’s Natural
Magic,11 p. 86, the representations of gods, and the apparitions of
the dead, appearing at the command of magicians and of priests
in the sanctuaries, may be readily and satisfactorily explained.
An excellent account of an exhibition of demons, conjured
up by a Sicilian priest, is given in the words of Benvenuto Cel­
lini, who witnessed it, in Roscoe’s life of that celebrated artist.
—Ed.
* Kircher. (Edipus, tome ii., p. 323.
Digitized by C>ooQLe
270 APPARITIONS THE WORK OF SCIENCE.
honored it as Osiris and Adonis.”* In describing
a modern phantasmagoria, how could it be differ­
ently set forth 1
Damasciusf informs us, that this apparition was
employed to prevent the rulers of the city from
giving way to hurtful dissensions. The miracle
had a political aim; indeed, we may discover the
same object in many of the anciently recorded mir­
acles ; and even presume the existence of the same
cause in nearly all of them.
The camera obscura served, in other cases, to
reproduce moving and animated pictures. Here,
the remark regarding the diorama applies with
greater force; namely, that simple observation
serves to indicate its use. If the window of a room
is closed by a tightly fitting shutter, and a hole be
made in it, the men, the animals, the passing carts,
and all moving objects, are seen clearly depicted
on the ceiling; when sufficiently illuminated, the
color of the exterior objects, if at all bright, are
perfectly recognizable in the picture ; and even
the images, as I have seen, preserve a very striking
resemblance both in the details and as a whole,
even when in proportion to the original objects
the dimensions are only as one in twelve or fifteen.
That, in ancient times, these apparitions were
the result of scientific meansj is proved by the fact,
♦ Damascius apud Photium Bibliolh., cod. 242.
t Damascius was a stoic philosopher of Damascus, who wrote
four books of extraordinary events which occurred in the age of
Justinian.—Ed.
t Nothing, in my opinion, can be more unworthy of human
reason, than the belief of the power of any class of men, good or
evil, to recall the immortal essence of our being, after it has quit­
ted its mortal vestment, and with a visible form, similar to that
from which it has been forever separated. If this opinion be cor­
rect, every spectral apparition, every ghost which has rendered
midnight hideous, every warning of supernatural voices that has
fallen upon the ear of shuddering guilt, and every sound that has
awakened the smitten conscience of the murderer, must alike be
Digitized by Google
APPARITIONS THE WORK OF SCIENCE. 271
that, by the aid of a convex lens, or concave mir­
rors, the Thaumaturgists were acquainted with,the
ait of restoring an inverted image to its proper
position. According to Theodoretus and the Rab­
bins, the cause of the terror which seized, or was
feigned by, the sorcerers consulted by Saul, was
owing to the shade of Samuel appearing in an up­
right posture; while till then the attitude of the
spirits had been reversed.
*
regarded as illusions of the mind, raised by extraneous circum
stances acting upon a deranged nervous system, so morbidly ex­
citable, that creative Fancy is set to work, and gives to aerial
nothings a corporeal presence and a form. These spectral illu­
sions, whatever appearance they may assume, are usually con­
joined with, or productive of, some prediction, which, if not ful­
filled, i&forgotten; but if, by any coincidence, it should apparently
be fulfilled, the mind becomes more strongly convinced of the
truth of supernatural agency, and the empire of superstition and
credulity gains an accession of power. The apparitions of the
ancients, therefore, as we have no reason for doubting the accounts
of them which have been transmitted by historians, must have
assuredly been impostures, produced in the manner afterward
detailed in the text.—En.
* Theodoret., in Reg., lib. i., quast. Ixii. Theodoretus, a theo­
doretus of the fourth century, was born in a.d. 393, and educated
under Theodore of Mapsuestia and John Chrysostom. He be­
came a deacon in the cnurch at Antioch, and in 423 was chosen
Bishop of Cyrus, in Syria. The greater part of his life was occu-
* pied with the controversy carried on between the Nestorian
* and
the Oriental Christians, or Eutychian
*
. He died in 457.
There is, however, no necessity for this supposition of Theo­
critus and the Rabbins; for it is probable that the figure of Sam­
uel did not appear at all, at least it was not seen by Saul; and if
the witch could have produced it by her science, there would
have been no cause of alarm on her part. Her dread arose from
the fear of punishment from Saul. When the apparitions spoke,
the deception was probably the effect of ventriloquism ; for that
ventriloquism was employed by the ancient sorcerers may be in­
ferred from the fact that it at this day forms a part of the per­
formances of the Esquimaux wizards. Captain Lyons details the
performances of one of his Iglolik acquaintances, named Toole-
mak, in the darkened cabin of his ship. The wife of Toolemak
sung the Annaaya duriug the whole performance. The first imi­
tation was that of the invocations of the spirit Tronga, when a
loud snorting, resembling that of the walrus, was heard; then
the voice seemed smothered, and retreated beneath the deck, as
if to a distance, when it ceased altogether. His wife said he had
Digitized by Google
272 APPARITIONS THE WORK OF SCIENCE.
Buffon allows the possibility of the existence of
the steel or polished iron mirrors, placed in the
port of Alexandria for the purpose of discovering
vessels at a great distance off at sea. It may be
presumed, that long before falling into the service
of industry, the sciences which suggested the con­
struction of the mirrors of Alexandria were pre­
served in the temples: and apparent miracles, far
superior to those we have just noticed, must have
awakened the admiration of the people, and filled
even the philosophers with astonishment.
*
“If this mirror,” says Buffon, “really existed,
as it seems probable that it did, to the ancients
belong the honor of the invention ofthe telescope.”
May we be permitted to add to this weighty au­
thority, one of a very different nature. In those
ancient tales of the East, whose details of miracles
we conceive to have been founded on disfigured
traditions, rather than to have been the inventions
of a roving imagination, we find a tube spoken of,
which was a foot long, and little more than an
inch in diameter, and at one extremity furnished
with a glass. By the application of the eye to one
dived, in order to bring up Tronga, and in balf
*
a
*
minute was heard
distant blowing, very slowly approaching, and a voice mingled
vyith the blowing, until both the voice and blowing became quite
distinct; and the old woman said Tronga was come to answer any
questions put to him by the captain. He asked some questions,
which were answered by two loud claps on the deck. A hollow
voice next chanted, and was succeeded by a strange jumble of
hisses, groans, shouts, and gabbling, like a turkey. The voice
then gradually sunk from hearing, and was succeeded by a sound
not unlike the wind on the bass chord of an ADolian harp, which
“ soon changed to a rapid hiss, like that of a rocket, and Toole-
mak, with a yell, announced his return.” When the light was
admitted, the ventriloquist was apparently much exhausted by
his performance, “ which had continued for at least half-an-hotfr.
—Ed.—Private Journal of Captain G. F. Lyons. Lond., 1824,
p. 358.
* Buffon, Hietoire naturelle des mineraux. Introduction, sixieme
memoir?, art. ii.
ized by CjOO^Ic
APPARITIONS THE WORK OF SCIENCE. 273
end of this tube, a person saw every thing be de­
sired.
* Let us substitute for this, the apparent
miracle of perceiving an object lost to the naked
eye by its distance; and the magic instrument
becomes an opera-glass, if not a telescope.
* Mille et une Nuils, 606® nuit, tome v., pp. 254-256, etc.
t “ Ejus-modi namque magica finis est, non facere simpliciter, ted
usque ad apparentiam imaginamenta porrigere, quorum mos nec vola,
quod dicitur, compareat, nec vestigium.” (lamblichus, De Myst.)
t Genghis Khan flourished in the end of the sixth and the be­
ginning of the seventh centuries.—Ed.
6 Histoire de Genghis Khan, pp. 471, 472.
I. s
May we not refer to a knowledge of the refrac­
tion of light, an extraordinary faculty, of which
the writers of different ages and countries have
spoken, in order to assure ourselves that they have
not copied from one another 1
Thus, as we are told, Jupiter, in love, trans­
formed himself, alternately, into an image of Diana
and of Amphytrion ; and Proteus and Vertumnus
could change their forms and aspects at will.
These are dazzling mythological fictions, the brill­
iancy of which conceals their absurdity. But when
a biographer relates that, under a borrowed ap­
pearance, his hero deceives even his friends, he
becomes ridiculous, because the excessive credu­
lity into which his enthusiasm has betrayed him
appears; and the relation of several such adven­
tures would only be met with skepticism. We do
not speak, however, of an isolated fact, but of a
universal art. “ The end of magic/’ says lambli-
chus, “ is not to create beings, but to cause images
resembling them to appear and soon again to van­
ish, without leaving the slightest trace behind
them.”!
Among the conquests of Genghis Khanf was a
town, the mart for all the commerce of China.
“ The inhabitants,” says the historian,§ “ were
Digitized by Google
274 APPARITIONS THE WORK OF SCIENCE.
versed in an art which could cause that which is
not to appear, and that which really is to disap­
pear.” “Men,” says Suidas,
* “who were calleu
Magi (magicians), knew how to surround them­
selves with delusive apparitions.” His translator
adds, by way of explanation, “ who so deceived
the eyes of men, by their miracles, as to appear
utterly different from what they really were.”
Saxo Grammaticus,! who, beside the Greek and
Latin authors now lost to us, consulted the tradi­
tions imported with the religion of Odin from Asia
into the north of Europe, speaking of the illusions
produced by the scientific magicians, says : “ Very
expert in optical delusions, they succeeded in giving
to themselves and others the appearance of various
objects, and, under attractive forms, to conceal their
real aspect.”^
John of Salisbury,§ who doubtless had access to
sources no longer open to us, relates that “ Mer­
curios,!| the most skillful of the magicians, had
discovered the secret of fascinating the eyes of
men in such a manner as to render persons invisi­
ble, or rather to give them the appearance of
beings of a different species.”!!
Simon, the magician,
** could also make another
* Suidas, Verbo Magos.
t A Danish author of the twelfth century, who wrote a history
of Denmark, of mixed authority.—Ed.
t Saxo Grammat., Hist. Dan., lib. i., cap. ix.
4 He lived in the reign of Henry VII.; and although that pe­
riod was ranked among the dark ages, yet John of Salisbury was
a man of learning, and well versed in the Greek and Latin lan­
guages, mathematics, and every branch of natural knowledge
then known. His principal work is entitled, “ Polycraticon.”—
Ed.
|| Trismegistus Mercurius, or Hermes, one of the Egyptian
Magi, who was a cotemporary of Moses, when he led the chil­
dren of Israel from Egypt.—Ed.
5T Joan. Salisb., Policr., lib. i., cap. ix.
** Simon Magus was a Samaritan by birth, a pagan, and ad­
dicted to sorcery. He nevertheless pretended to believe in Chris-
by GOOgle
APPARITIONS THE WORK OF SCIENCE. 275
man resemble him so exactly, as to deceive every
one. An ocular witness, the author of the “ Recog­
nitions,” ascribed to Pope Saint Clement, relates
this incredible story.
*
Pomponius Mela attributes to the Druidical
priestesses of the island of Sena the art of trans­
forming themselves into animals at will ;t and So-
linusj regards the enchantments of Circe as delu­
sive apparitions.
Eustathius§ enters into important details. In
Homer, Proteus transforms himself into a consum­
ing fire. “ This,” says the commentator,)| “ must
be understood as a mere apparition; thus Proteus
becomes a dragon, a lion, a boar, &c., not really
changing, but only appearing to be so.” Proteus
was a very learned, very versatile, and very adroit
worker of miracles (Terasios), and was acquainted
with the secrets of Egyptian philosophy. After
having noticed Mercury, and other beings con­
nected with the mythology, and who, by an ap­
parent metamorphosis, passed, like Proteus, from
one form to another, Eustathius continues : “ Cra-
tisthenes has been admired for the same art: ho
tianity, and was baptized by Philip, the deacon but when Peter
and John went to Samaria, he offered them money to bestow
upon him the same power which they possessed. Peter sharply
rebuked him, and refused his request, saying, “ Thy money per­
ish with thee, because thou hast thought that the gift of God
may be purchased with money.” (Acts, chap, vii., v. 20.) He
was one of the earliest supporters of the Gnostic system, addicted
to abominable vices, and one of the principal opponents of Chris­
tianity.—Ed.
♦ .Recognit., lib. X.—Epitome de rebus gestis, B. Petri.
t Pompon. Mela, lib. iii., cap. vi.
t Solin., cap. viii.
§ Eustathius was Archbishop of Thessalonica in the twelfth
century, under the emperors Manuel Alexius and Andronicua
Comnenus. He was a man of great erudition, and wrote a cele­
brated commentary on Homer, and on Dionysius the geographer.
—Ed.
|' Eu.-tilth, in Homer. Odyss., lib. iv., v. 417, 418.
Digitized by
276 APPARITIONS THE WORK OF SCIENCE.
created an appearance of flames which seemed to
issue from him, and to display a peculiar motion
*
He also contrived other apparitions, by which he
forced men to confess their thoughts to him. Such
also were Xenophon, Scymnos, Phillipide, Hera-
clidus, and Nymphodorus, who forced men to obey
their wills by inspiring them with dread.”
* Athenaeus, Deipnosoph., lib. i., cap. xiv.
t Some idea of the manner in which this was performed is giv­
en in a subsequent note.—Ed.
t A Greek, a native of Nancratis, in Lower Egypt, who lived
in the third century. His work entitled " Deipnosovhista” is a
very curious performance, treating chiefly of the pleasures of
the table, and illustrating ancient art.—Ed.
Athenaeus
* speaks in similar terms of Cratis-
thenes and of Xenophon, who appeared to create
flames; and of Nymphodorus: all three skillful
in deceiving men by apparent miracles, and terri­
fying them by apparitions.f
What, we may inquire, were these apparitions 1
The term has no equivocal meaning; for the com­
mentator proposes to prove, that the pretended
metamorphoses of Proteusf are to be considered
as apparitions; it was therefore necessary that the
enchanters should themselves appear clothed in the
forms with which they alarmed the spectators.
But let us remark that, in asserting their pos­
session of this talent, neither Eustathius nor Athe­
naeus describe Cratisthenes or Xenophon as being
endowed with supernatural power; both of these,
as well as Proteus, are mentioned only as skillful
adepts in deception.
In another age, and in another hemisphere, we
hear of a similar apparent miracle. It is mentioned
by Joseph Acosta, who, toward the end of the six­
teenth century, resided in Peru : he affirms that
there existed at that epoch sorcerers who possess­
ed the power of taking any form they pleased.
Digitized by UooQle
DECEPTIONS OF THE MAGICIANS. 277
He relates that the ruler of a city in Mexico, who
was sent for by the predecessor of Montezuma,
transformed himself, before the eyes of the men
who went successively to seize him, into an eagle,
a tiger, and an immense serpent. At last he
yielded, and was conducted to the emperor, who
condemned him to death.
* No longer in his own
house, and no longer within his own theater, he
then lacked the power of working miracles in order
to save his life.
* Joseph Acosta, Hutoire Naturelle det Indes, <fc., feuillets 251
et 351-358. z
t Recueil de Voyages et de Memoires, publie par la Societe de Geo­
graphic, tome ii., p. 182.
The Bishop of Chiapa (a province of Guatimala),
in a writing published in 1702, ascribed the same
power to the Naguals, or national nriests, who
labored to win back to the religion of their ances­
tors the children brought up as Christians by the
government. After various ceremonies, when the
child he instructed advanced to embrace him, the
Nagual suddenly assumed a frightful aspect; and,
under the form of a lion or tiger, appeared chained
to the young Christian convert.!
It may be observed, that these apparent miracles,
like those of the Mexican enchanters, were per­
formed in a place previously chosen and adapted
to the purpose : they prove, therefore, simply a
local power; they indicate the existence of a me­
chanical art; but they do not lead to an acquaint­
ance with its resources.
May not the fire, with which, after the example
of Proteus, Cratisthenes and Xenophon enveloped
themselves, have served to conceal some other
operation ?
It is well known that the ancients often thought
they could perceive objects of a determinate figure
Digitized by Google
278 DECEPTIONS OF THE MAGICIANS.
in the midst of a body of flame. The vapor of
burning sulphur, and the light of a lamp fed by a
particular unctuous substance, were made use of
by Anaxilaus of Larissa
* to work various apparent
miracles, which are referable not so much to magic,
as to real experiments in physics.!
* Anaxilaus was banished from Italy by Augustus on account
of hie impostures.—Ed.
t Plin., Hist. Nat., lib. xxviii., cap. ii., xxxii., 52, lib. xxxv., cap.
xv. Anaxilaus had composed a book quoted by Saint Ireneus
and Saint Epiphanes, and entitled tralrjvia (Jeux, Enfantillages).
t These illusions were evidently produced by concave mirrors,
as explained in a former note. They required the aerial, reflected
images to be thrown into the midst of smoke.—Ed.
6 Robertson, Memoires, 4*:., tome i., p. 354.
II lamblichus, De myeleriis, cap. xxix.
V Eunap. in Maximo.
A modern wizard,J in the revelation of his se­
crets, allows the possibility of producing an appa­
rition in smoke. The Theurgists caused the ap­
pearance of the gods in the air, in the midst of
gaseous vapors, disengaged from fire.§ Porphyrus
admires this secret; lamblichus|| censures the em­
ployment of it; but he confesses its existence, and
grants it to be worthy the attention of the inquirer
after truth. The Theurgist Maximus undoubt­
edly made use of a secret analogous to this, when,
in the fumes of the incense which he burned before
the statue of Hecate, the image was seen to laugh
so naturally as to fill the spectators with terror.1T
Such illusions, supposing there were ever any
thing real in them, may have been managed by the
magician who had previously surrounded himself
with apparent flames. But we will not dwell on
doubtful probabilities, nor attempt to explain what
we can scarcely regard as credible. Our aim has
been merely to excite reflection on narrations which
refer the same apparent miracle to many different
places. They prove, at least, that in employing
Digitized by v>oo<?le
DECEPTIONS OF THE MAGICIANS. 279
either science or subtilty, the Thaumaturgists had
carried out the art of optical deception far enough
to raise an exaggerated, or rather an absurd idea
of their power. Indeed we may conclude that
they were acquainted with wire-gauze ; as we are
told in the fable of Vulcan, that he made an iron
net as delicate as a spider’s web, in order to ex­
pose the infidelity of his wife with Mars. May we
not, therefore, conjecture that they might have
used wire-gauze on the same principle as did Sir
H. Davy.
*
* If we admit that the ancients possessed a knowledge of many
extraordinary inventions, which have been regarded as altogether
modem, we may suppose that the knowledge of non-conducting
substances, and of substances such as wire-gauze, through which
flame can not pass, the foundation of Sir H. Davy’s safety-lamp
was not unknown to them. The Chevalier Aldini, early in this
century, invented an incombustible dress, by means of which fire­
men can proceed with impunity into the midst of flames. The
body, arms, and leg-pieces, are made of strong cloth, steeped in a
saturated solution of alum, while the cap, which covers the whole
head and neck, and is perforated only with openings for the eyes,
nostrils, and mouth, and the gloves and shoes, are made of cloth
of asbestos. Over this dress is placed another, made of iron-wire
gauze, consisting of a casque, or cap, and mask, large enough to
leave a space between it and the asbestos cap; a cuirass, with
brassets; armor for the trunk and the thighs; and a pair of double
boots. There is also an oval shield, made of the wire-gauze,
stretched on a slender frame of iron.
Many experiments were made to npove the efficacy of this ap­
paratus. Among others, two parallel rows of straw and brush­
wood, supported by iron wires, extending thirty feet, were placed
three feet apart, and then set on fire. The heat was sufficient
to prevent any one from approaching nearer than eight or ten
yarns from the fire. Six firemen, however, habited in the above
dresses, marched repeatedly, to and fro, through the whole length
of the double row of flames, uninjured. They breathed without
difficulty in the midst of the flames, so completely was the heat
of the air which entered their lungs interrupted by the wire gauze
cap. In another experiment, a fireman remained so long envel­
oped in flames and smoke, which rendered him invisible, that
doubts were entertained of his safety; but he issued from them
uninjured.—Ed.
Digitized by CrOOQle
280 HYDROSTATICS USED FOR
CHAPTER XIV.
Hydrostatics.—MiraculousFountainofAndros.—TombofBetas.—
Statues that shed Tears.—Perpetual Lamps.—Chemistry.—
Liquids changing color.—Condensed Blood becoming Liquid.—
Inflammable Liquid.—The Art of distilling Alcoholic Liquors
was formerly known even beyond the Temples.
Means yet more simple and more easily exposed
than those already noticed here, served to give the
phenomena of occult science the appearance of
miracles. In the island of Andros
* was a fountain
esteemed miraculous, from its discharging wine for
seven days, and water only during the rest of the
year.t An elementary acquaintance with hydro­
statics, and the effects of the pressure of fluids,
serves to explain this apparent miracle, as well as
that connected with another fountain at Rome,
which, on the return of Augustus to the city, after
the war in Sicily, flowed with oil} during an entire
day. Another apparent miracle was performed
every year at the feast of Bacchus, in a town of
Elis :§ three empty urns, that were closed in pres­
* Andros was an island in the ^Egean sea, in the capital of
which, called also Andros, was a temple of Bacchus, and the
above celebrated fountain. The apparent miracle was performed
during the ides of January.—Ed.
f Plin., Hist. Nat., lib. ii., cap. ciii.
t Paul Orose, who relates this prodigy, believes it to be a pro­
phetic emblem of the birth of Christ, under the empire of Augus­
tus. We think that this fact was not in its commencement ex­
hibited as a miracle ; credulity allowed itself, subsequently, to
be deceived by the figurative expressions made use of by cotem­
porary writers, to celebrate the return of the conqueror. Fount­
ains of wine, in these latter days, have flowed in our own market­
places, on the occasions of public rejoicings.
§ The capital of a country in Greece, where the Olympic games
were celebrated on the banks of the Alpheus. It was celebrated
for a temple of Venus, and a statue of the goddess made of gold
and ivory, with the feet resting on a tortoise, the work of Phidias.
—En.
Digitized by Google
UPHOLDING IMPOSTURE. 281
ence of the strangers attracted in crowds to this
spectacle, on being reopened, were found to have
filled themselves with wine.
* A more striking ex­
hibition might have been obtained, by employing
the machine to which we give the name of the
Fountain of Hero (although, in all probability, it
was not invented, but simply described
*
, by that
mathematician), as the water poured into the reser­
voir before the eyes of the spectators would seem
to have issued from it in the form of wine.
It is believed, with much probability, that the
representation of the infernal regions, as they were
conceived by the Greeks, formed a part of the
celebration of the mysteries. The curious punish­
ment of the Danaidest must then have been dis­
played to the initiated, and history has indicated
the manner in which this was - managed. Xerxes
caused the monument of Belus| to be opened.
The body of this prince lay in a glass coffin, nearly
* Athens., Dtipnoioph., lib. i., cap. xxx.—Pausanias, Eliac., lib.
ii., cap. xxvi.
t The daughters of Danaus, King of Argos, who, with the ex­
ception of one, namely, Hypermnestra, destroyed their husbands
in the first night of their nuptials, at the suggestion of their father;
because an oracle had foretold his death, by the hands of one of
his sons-in-law, all of whom were his nephews. Hypermnestra
was tried for her disobedience, in favoring the escape of her hus­
band, Lynceus, but acquitted by the unanimous voice of the peo­
ple. Her sisters were purified from the murder by Mercury and
Minerva, at the command of Jupiter; but condemned at death to
eternal labor, in the regions of Pluto, by attempting to fill with
water a vessel full of holes, so that the water ran out as soon as
it was poured into it.—Ed.
t Betus, who was one of the ancient kings of Babylon, reigned
about eighteen hundred years before Semiramis, and was deified
at his death. His temple is stated to have been originally the
tower of Babel: Xerxes plundered and demolished it. Among
other curious relics, beside the coffin, were several statues of
gold, one of which was forty feet high. The cause of the perma­
nent level of the oil in the coffin must have been discovered when
the temple was destroyed ; but it nevertheless, in the mean time,
deluded the ignorant, and passed for a miracle.—Ed.
Digitized by Gooqlc
282 HYDROSTATICS USED FOR
filled with oil, and bearing an inscription on the
side of it, which conveyed the following warning:
“ Woe, woe to him, who, having opened this tomb,
shall neglect to fill the coffin!” Xerxes gave im­
mediate orders to fill it up with oil; but, however
great the quantity poured in, it was impossible to
fill it flThis phenomenon was regarded as the
presage of those disasters which darkened, and
finally terminated, the life of Xerxes.
* Hidden
from notice by tbe position of the corpse, or by
some less remarkable obstacle, was a tube, by
which the coffin communicated with a reservoir of
oil, owing to which that in the coffin was always
kept at the same height; and the mouth of the
tube, opening at that point, carried off the surplus,
and thus prevented the coffin from becoming frill.
Formerly, the perspiration, or sweating of stat­
ues, which arose from the drops of water deposited
upon them by the atmosphere saturated with aque­
ous vapor, which resolved itself into liquid on
coming into contact with these cold dense bodies,
was superstitiously regarded as really miraculous.
Such ametamorphosis in our times, in damp weather
and moist climates, is too frequently renewed to be
turned to much account. But historians and poets
unite in the assertion, that the statues of heroes
and images of gods have both perspired and also
have shed visible tears, the certain presages of
calamities about to descend on their fellow-citizens
or worshipers. The determination of the czar,
Peter the Great, put an end to a pretended mira­
cle of this kind at St. Petersburg. An image of
the Blessed Virgin, painted on wood, wept abun­
dantly, in order, so it was given out, to testify her
abhorrence of the reforms projected by the czar.
♦ Ctesias in Persicit,—Julian, Variar, Hist,, lib. xiii„ cap. iii.
Digitized by UooQle
UPHOLDING IMPOSTURE. 283
Peter himself discovered and exposed to the peo­
ple the mechanism by which the fraud was man­
aged. A reservoir, filled with oil, was concealed
between the two panels of which the picture con­
sisted, from which the oil, thinned by the heat of
the multitude of tapers lighted up around the im­
age, was conveyed by conduits, and found its way
through small holes at the angles of the eyes, thus
representing tears as it filtered.
* All the miracles
of weeping statues, &c., are referable to similar
artifices; and to the same source we may trace
another of a somewhat different nature, related by
Gregory of Tours. This historian saw, in a monas­
tery at Poitiers, a lamp lighted before a fragment
of the true cross, the oil of which miraculously
overflowed, and in the space of an hour poured
out a quantity equal to that contained in the reser­
voir. Indeed the rapidity of its rising increased
in proportion to the incredulity at first displayed
by the spectator.!
* L6v£que, Histoire de Rutsie (eleventh edition), tome v., pp.
161, 162.
f Greg, Turon,, Miracul,, lib. i., cap. v.
The learned of the sixteenth century have so
often spoken of perpetual lamps, and the students
of natural philosophy have so ardently sought to
revive the secret, that we might suppose their
credulity to be founded on, and the perseverance
of their attempts to be sustained by, some tradi­
tion. For the realization of this seeming miracle,
the fulfillment of two apparently impossible condi­
tions was necessary. In the first place, it was
necessary to provide an inexhaustible aliment for
combustion; and in the second, to furnish an in­
consumable wick for the combustion of this ali­
ment. Recollecting the miracle at the tomb of
Belus, the mystery is easily detected. At some
f Digitized by GooQle
284 CHEMICAL DECEPTIONS.
hidden point, let a tube be placed by which the
lamp may communicate with a secret reservoir, so
large that the consumption of one, or even of sev­
eral days, will but little alter its level: thus, the
first part of the problem is resolved. The second
disappears before the common invention of the
present period, namely, that of lamps without
wicks,
* an invention resulting from the same cause
as the two last miracles we have cited, the dilata­
tion of oil by heat. In the precaution of filling
the concealed reservoir with regularity, there could
be nothing embarrassing; and as to any perplexity
from the necessity, in case of accident, of changing
the tube at the orifice ofwhich the expanded oil was
inflamed-, the wonder-worker was skillful enough,
while giving it his own attention, to distract that
of the spectators from his operations for a few
moments.!
The agency of heat, in the expansion of oil or
any other liquid, belongs to another science than
hydrostatics; thus, we are naturally led to examine
what was the extent, or rather how much, we can
trace of those pretended miracles, for which the
ancients were indebted to a practical knowledge
of chemistry,
Passing to more elevated ideas, we may recall
the example of Asclepiodotus,| who chemically
* These lamps serve for night-lamps ; but care is necessary to
clean the tube frequently, otherwise they are liable to be extin­
guished. This inconvenience was not experienced where the
lamp was to burn without interruption; the tube becomes ob­
structed, only because the oil, partly decomposed, attaches itself
to the sides of the tube, when the night-lamp is extinguished in
the morning.
f There is no necessity for explaining the above described phe­
nomenon by the great expansion of oil, for a wick of asbestos
would, although incombustible, yet be fully adequate to raise the
oil, and keep up the flame as long as the lamp was duly fed with
the combustible fluid.—Ed.
t A general of Mithridates.—Ed. ,
Digitized by Google
CHEMICAL DECEPTIONS. 285
reproduced the deleterious exhalations of a sacred
grotto,
* which proves that a science so prolific of
apparent miracles was not unknown in the temples.
Other facts tend to confirm this opinion. Marcos,
the leader of one of those sects, which, in the
earlier ages of the Church, endeavored to amalga­
mate with Christian doctrines particular dogmas
and rites of initiation, filled three cups of transpa­
rent glass with colorless wine; during his prayer,
the fluid in one of these cups became blood-red, in
another purple, and in the third, of an azure blue.]
At a later period, a well might be seen, in an
Egyptian church, the waters of which, whenever
they were placed in a lamp, became of a sanguine
color.f
In addition to these seeming miracles, probably
borrowed from the mysteries of some ancient tem­
ple, let us add one of later times. At the court of
the Duke of Brunswick, Professor Beyruss prom­
ised that, during dinner, his coat should become
red ; and, to the amazement of the prince and his
other guests, it actually became of that color.§ M.
Vogel, who relates the fact, does not reveal the se­
cret made use of by Beyruss; but he observes that,
by pouring limewater on the juice of the beet-root,
a colorless liquid is obtained; and that a piece of
cloth, steeped in this liquid and quickly dried, be­
comes red in a few hours, simply by contact with
the air ; and further, that the effect is accelerated in
an apartment where champagne and other wines are
♦ Dissertation de M. Virey, Journal de Pharmacie, chap, viii., p.
153.
t St. Epiphan., contra Haeres, lib. 1., tome ill, contrd Marcosios,
Haer. 24. Sainte Croix has inadvertently ascribed this miracle
to the Pepuzziens.—Recherche
* sur les Mysteres du Paganisms,
tome ii., pp. 190, 191.
t Macrizy, quoted by Et. Quatrem&re.—Memoirs
* sur VEgypte,
tome i., p. 449.
$ Journal de Pharmacie, tome iv., (F6vrier, 1818) pp. 57, 58.
Digitized by C.ooQle
286 CHEMICAL DECEPTIONS.
explanation applies
cates the possibility
it also discovers the
being plentifully poured out.
* It has been proved,
by recent experiments, that wool dyed by orchilt of
a violet color, or stained blue by the acidulated sul­
phate of indigo, in a bath of hydro-sulphuric acid,
becomes colorless, yet resumes the blue or the
vidlet color on exposure to the free air.f Either
to the modern fact, and indi-
of reviving ancient prodigies:
manner in which, amid darning
* In this case, the limo, which, in its pure or alkaline state,
unites with the acid of the juice of the beet-root and decolorizes
it, attracts carbonic acid from the air, which converts it into car­
bonate oflime, so that the acid ofthe beet being again set free, aid­
ed by any excess ofthe carbonic acid,acts upon the coloring matter,
and restores the color. The quantity ofcarbonic acid extricated by
the breathing of many persons in a crowded room, and evolved
by the champagne, would greatly facilitate this change.—Ed.
f A dye-stuff made from a species of lichen named rocella tine-
toria.—Ed.
t Academie det Sciences, stance du 2 Janvier, 1837.
4 Longueruana, tome i., p. 162.
|| Travels of Sunnbum, vol. i., p. 81.—St. Lawrence Scopali
was a native of Otranta. He was forty years of age before he
was admitted into holy orders. He became an ardent preacher,
and among other works, published ** The Spiritual Combat/' a
production of considerable merit, twenty years before his death,
which happened in 1610, in his eightieth year.—Ed.
torches and smoking incense, in the sanctuaries of
Polytheism, the veil concealing the sacred things
may have been seen to change from white to a
deep blood-red hue, and which spectacle was con­
sidered as the presage of frightful disasters.
Blood boiling on the altars, or upon the marbles,
or in the vases of the temple, was also indicative
of peril and calamity. In Provence, in the six­
teenth century, when a consecrated vial, filled
with the blood of St. Magdalene, in a solid state,
was placed near her pretended head, the blood be­
came liquid, and suddenly boiled.§ The same
phenomenon was exhibited in the cathedral of
Avellino, with the blood of St. Lawrence,|| and
Digitized by Google
CHEMICAL DECEPTIONS. 287
also at Bisseglia, with that of St. Pantaleon,
* and
of two other martyrs.! In the present day, at an
annual public ceremony at Naples, some of the
blood of St. Januarius4 collected and dried cen­
turies ago, becomes spontaneously liquefied, and
rises in a boiling state to the top of the vial that
incloses it. These phenomena may be produced
by reddening sulphuric ether with orcanette (Onos-
ma, Linn.), and mixing the tincture with sperma­
ceti. This preparation, at ten degrees above the
freezing point (centigrade), remains condensed, but
melts ana boils at twenty. To raise it to this tem­
perature, it is only necessary to hold the vial
which contains it in the hand for some time. If a
little simple jugglery be combined with this philo­
sophical experiment, the apparent miracle is com-
* St. Pantaleon was physician to the Emperor Maximianus:
he fell into idolatry, but was rescued from it, and afterward ar­
dently desired to expiate his crime by martyrdom, a wish which
was granted to him, in the barbarous persecution of the Christians
by Dioclesian.—Ed.
+ Travels of Swinbum, vol. i., p. 165.
t St. Januarius was a native of Naples; he became Bishop of
Beneventa, and was ultimately beheaded at Puzzuoli. In the
fifth century, his remains were removed to Naples, and his head
and two vials of his blood are still preserved in a chapel, called
the treasury, in the great church of that city. The usual time
at which the pretended miracle recorded in the text is performed,
is the 19lh of September, the feast of St. Januarius—Butler, in
his Xroes ofthe Fathen, Martyn, (vol. vii., p. 4), endeavors to
maintain the reality of this miracle, by mentioning the names of
a number of royal, venerable, and noble persons who had witness­
ed it. The blood, or rather pretended blood, in its congealed
state, is of a dark-red color; but when brought in sight of the
head, though at a considerable distance, it melts, bubbles up, and,
on the least motion, flows on one side. Notwithstanding the
peat antiquity of this assumed miracle, and the argument of But­
ler in support of its authenticity, drawn from the improbability
that so many holy, venerable, and learned persons, who have
vouched for its truth, can have been, and are, hypocrites, impos­
tors, and jugglers, we see no reason for altering our opinion that
the blood is not real blood, and its liquefaction is most probably
the effect of warming the chemical compound mentioned in the
text, not so wonderful as he supposes.—Ed.
Digitized by Google
288 CHEMICAL DECEPTIONS.
plete. At Naples, the pretended relics of St. John
the Baptist annually shed blood ;
* and blood
trickles from the withered bones of St. Thomas
Aquinas, thus proving the authenticity of the relics
held in veneration by the monks of Fossa Nuova ;t
and the bones of St. Nicholas of Tolentius,| ex­
posed on the altar for the adoration of the faithful,
soon fills with blood a large silver basin, placed
below it by the foresight of the priestj
From this solution, it seems to follow, that tho
Thaumaturgists were acquainted with alcoholic
liquors, and with the art of distilling necessary to
obtain them; and that thus it was easy for them
to produce the spectacle of burning liquids, with
which they astonished the multitude. This is not
a rashly hazarded supposition. In an ancient sa­
cred book of the Hindoos,|| in which are collected
doctrines of the remotest ages, under the name of
Kea-soum, mention is made of the distillation of
spirits. This secret, indeed, was not confined to
the temples, for the art of distillation had been
practiced in HindostanjJ from a very early age; at
Nepaul ;
** at Boutan ;ff and also at Thibet, where
arrack is extracted from chcmg, or rice-wine,by
* Pilati de Tassulo, Voyages en differens pays de VEurope, tome
i., pp. 350, 351.
+ Prfcz de Pipemo.—Pilati de Tassulo, Voyages, <fc., tome L,
pp. 345-350.
t St. Nicholas was a native of St. Angelo, near Fermo, in the
Marca of Amona. He was bom a.d. 1245, of opulent parents.
While a young man, he entered himself as a novitiate in the order
of Tolentino. After a life of austerity, he died in 1306, and was
canonized by Eugenius IV., in 1446.—Ed.
§ Le P. Labat, Voyages (TEspagne et dPItaUe, tome iv., pp. 100,
101.
|| Oupnek'hat, Brahmen 24.—Journal Asiatique, tome ii., p. 270.
T Recherches Asialiques, tome i., pp. 335-345.
»♦ Bibl. Univ. Litterat., tome iv., p. 272.
ft Turner, Embassy to Thibet, <£c., vol. i., p. 50.
Rice-wine is still made in China; and the lees, when dis­
tilled, yield a spirit not unlike brandy, which is named show-choo,
Digitized by UooQle
CHEMICAL DECEPTIONS. 289
■a process whibh the natives have certainly not
learned from Europeans.
*
* Du Halde’s Annals of the Monarchs, tee., vol. 1., p. 145.
I. T
It may be asked, was it from Europe that the
art of distilling was received by the Nagals.t a
free people of the mountains of Assam i The
same question may be asked respecting the inhab­
itants of the provinces situated between Ava, Siam,
and Pegu, where toddy is made from the juice of
the Nipa palm-tree; or in reference to the island­
ers of Sumatra, who, in 1603, were seen by a trav­
eler]: making use of earthen tiles in extracting a
liquor stroiiger than our brandy, from a mixture
of rice arid the juice of the sugar-cane. We may
safely reply in the negative, and it is probable,
that, five centuries before our era, this art had
passed into Asia Minor, and into Greece. Traces
of this communication exist, if we admit the inge­
nious inferences, by which Schulz§ endeavors to
establish, that the liqueur of Scythia, the Scythicus
latex of Democritus, was nothing else than alcohol,
the Polish name of which, gorzalka,|| recalls the
name chrusoloucos (wpvooAovKOf), given it by the
•an-tcAoo, and mmtchoo, which literally means burnt, or hot wine.
How long prior to the Christian era the Chinese exercised the art
of making wine, and distilling it into spirits, it is impossible to
say : but Du Halde
* informs us, that two thousand two hundred
and seven years before Christ, in the reign of the Emperor Yu or
Ta-yu, rice-wine was invented, and its use produced such evil
consequences, that it was expressly forbidden to be made, or
drunk, under the severest penalties.—En.
* Cadet Gassicourt, art. Distillation, in the Dictionnaire des Sa-
enees Medicales.
t Nouvelles Annales des Voyages, tome xxxii., p. 234.
j Francois Martin, Description du premier Voyage aux Index Ori­
entates par le Francois (Paris, 1609), pp. 56-71 et 166.
§ Cadet Gassicourt, art. Distillation.—Dictionnaire des Sciences
Medicales.
II In Sclavonia, gorilka or horilka... In Sclavonian and in Polish,
gore signifies a thing that burns; the termination 'Ika indicates a
diminutive.
Digitized by
290 CHEMICAL DECEPTIONS.
ancients. Not that we ought to regard the liqueur
of Scythia as a preparation of spirit of wine, which
only became known in Poland in the sixteenth
century : but some of the kinds of spirits of which
we have spoken might reach Scythia, as an article
of its commerce with Thibet, or Hindustan. The
Scythians, indeed, may have obtained it themselves
from the productions of their own territories. Si­
beria has been long shut out from the age of inven­
tions. There the stems of the birch are annually
collected,
* not only in order to obtain the sugary
efflorescence with which, in drying, they become
covered, but more particularly to extract from them
a large quantity of alcohol, by causing them to fer­
ment in water.
Aristotle assures us that art had been successful
in producing oil from common salt.! It can scarcely
be doubted that he alludes to the production of hy­
drochloric acid, which may have received the name
of oil, in the same way that sulphuric acid has long
been known under the name of oil ofvitriol.^ Fi­
nally, the art of distillation, as employed for the
extraction of mercury from cinnabar, has been de­
scribed by Pliny and Dioscorides,§ with no indica­
tion of its being a recent discovery: now this art
having once become known, was it unlikely that
the doctors of the temples should endeavor to ap­
ply it to fermented liquors ?
Ayhen we recollect that, placed in contact with
flame, the wine of Falerno became ignited ;|| that
* Heracleum sphondilium (fausse brancursine ; patto d’oie, Cow
parsley).—Coura d
* Agriculture de Rosier (1809), art. Berce.
t Aristot., Problem xxiii., 13.
t Hydrochloric acid, which is procured from salt, is still popu­
larly called spirit ofsea-salt.—Ed.
t) Dioscorid.,Iib. v., cap. ex.—Plin., Hist. Nat., lib. xxxiii., cap.
viii.
II Plin., Hist. Nat., lib. xiv., cap. vi. All wines contain either
free or combined alcohol.—Ed
Digitized by Google
CHEMICAL DECEPTIONS. 291
the wines of the Greeks and the Romans, even
when diluted with two parts of water, were intox­
icating in their effects; that these wines were pre­
served and improved by being kept in the highest
story of their houses, in cellars protected from the
heat of the sun, it is natural to suppose that a por­
tion ofpure alcohol, more or less strong, was mix­
ed with them; and thus, that the art, having issued
from the temples, was ministering to the uses of
domestic life. But this supposition would ill ac­
cord with all that we know of the ancient art of
making wine. Faithful to the path we have marked
out, let us limit ourselves to inquire, if, when more
abstruse secrets passed over from the temples of
India to enrich those of Asia Minor, of Etruria,
and of Greece, the ait of obtaining spirituous
liquors by distillation, universal in the East, would
not follow in the same route, and fall also into the
hands of the priests of these countries 1
* The gen­
* In the opinion of the editor, the reasoning of our author as
to the introduction of the art of distillation into Asia Minor, Etru­
ria, and Greece, from Hindostan, is by no means necessary in
order to account for the knowledge of ardent spirits by the priest­
hood, and their employment in some of the mysteries of the tem­
ples. It is a well known fact, that there is no variety of the hu­
man race, of however low a grade, that has not some means of
inducing intoxication, by means of beverages. In the Friendly
Islands, when Captain Cook first visited them, the natives made
an intoxicating beverage, by chewing the root of the kava-plant,
and mixing the juice thus extracted with water. The Tartars
make araka, a strong liquor from the fermented milk of the cow
and the horse; in Egypt, araki is the produce of the date; and in
India, that of the flowers of the madhuca-tree (Bassia Butyracea).
The Siamese became intoxicated with lau, made from rice; the
Chinese, with show-choo, a species of brandy, distilled from the
lees of mandarin, a rice-wine: the Mexican, on a spirit made from
pulyne, the fermented juice of the Agave Americana; and the
Kamschatkains, on slutkaia trava, a spirit made from a sweet
grass, and another from the juice of the whortleberry, mixed with
that of the amanita muscaria. Now all inebriating liquors, how­
ever produced, and whether obtained from vegetable or from ani­
mal substances, derive their inebriating properties from alcohol;
and, if that opinion be admitted, it is easy to conceive that as,
Digitized by Go<
292 SECRETS USED IN PAGAN RITES.
eral argument applies here in all its force; this art
must certainly have been known in temples where
apparent miracles, referable to its agency alone,
were performed.
CHAPTER XV.
Secrets employed in working apparent Miracles in Initiations and
in religious Kites.—Those giving Security against the Effects of
Fire, and used in the Fiery Ordeal, known in Asia and in Italy,
and practiced in the Eastern Roman Empire, as well as in
Europe, in more modem Times.—Process by which Wood may
be rendered Incombustible.
The knowledge of those energetic substances
which, acting externally on organized bodies, en­
able man to come in contact with flame, boiling
water, red-hot iron, and fused metals, had likewise
its origin, or at least was practiced, in the temples.
It was long confined to them; and it has never
been fully revealed to the multitude.
The mere approach of fire to any combustible
body is so frightful, and its ravages are so devas­
tating, that an apparent miracle, displaying the
power of resistance to its influence, could not fail
to further the designs of the workers of wonders,
as the following facts demonstrate :
when these liquors were heated or boiled, they must consequently
have become weaker, and lost much of their intoxicating proper­
ties, those who observed this effect would be led to suppose that
something was driven off with the vapor during tbe boiling, and
without this the liquors ceased to intoxicate. The natural result
of such an observation would be an attempt to regain this impor­
tant ingredient, by condensing the vapor; and the possibility
of doing this would be observed almost as early as the discovery
of its being carried off by the vapor; hence the first step to the
performance of the process of distillation. It is, therefore, prob­
able that the discovery of ardent spirits is coeval with civiliza­
tion ; and that the process of procuring them was known in many
countries, without being communicated from other nations; ana,
consequently, must have been familiar in the temples, the repos­
itories of all the science and teaming of antiquity.—Ed.
Digitized by UooQle
SECRETS USED IN PAGAN RITES* 293
1st. The candidate for initiation probably expe­
rienced this trial on his admission. It would be
absurd to believe, that in this mystery all the
proofs to which the aspirant were subjected, were
illusions and juggling tricks; and especially the
ordeal by fire.
The Tartars, on the approach to their hordes of
a stranger, or an ambassador, or a king, or even
of an ordinary traveler, long observed the custom
of causing him to pass between two lighted piles
of fagots, in order to his purification from any
malignant influence which he might bear about
him. It merely required the space between the
fagots to be widened or narrowed, and this purifi­
cation became either a trial, or a torture, or a mor­
tal punishment. In the initiations, this ceremony,
undoubtedly borrowed from the Tartars, might
have been so managed as to enable the priests
easily to punish imprudent individuals who put
themselves in their power after having offended
them, or who had attempted to shake the sincerity
of the faith of others, or to thwart their intentions,
by making them disappear among the flames.
In the rites of the most ancient initiations, fire
was an important agent in the frightful trials of
this nature, which were endured by Zoroaster be­
fore commencing his prophetic mission.!
Among the preparations of initiation were one
or many baths, regulated by the priests. It is not
difficult to conceive that, by immersion in these
baths, a transient power of resisting fire was com­
municated to the aspirant.^ In submitting after­
* Abel Remusat, Memoires sur les Relations Politiques des Rois
de France avec les Empereurs Mongols.—Journal Asiatique, tome i,
p. 135.
t Vie de Zoroastre, Zenda-vesta, tome i., 2d part, p. 24.
t It is not easy to conjecture the nature of these baths; but the
solution, whatever was the substance dissolved in the water, must
Digitized by Google
294 SECRETS USED IN PAGAN RITES.
Ward to the fiery ordeal, the faith of the aspirant
must have been great enough to persuade him that
he would be preserved from all injury by his con­
fidence in the divinity; or, were this conviction
not felt, he must have relied on his intrepidity.
have left upon the surface some incombustible matter; but it was
not necessary that it should have been a non-conductor of heat,
as some contend. Albertus Magnus informs us that it consisted
of powdered lime, formed into a paste with the juice of the radish,
the white of egg, the juice of the marsh-mallow, and the seeds
of the flee-bane. He adds, that, if one coat of this compound is
applied to the body and allowed to dry, and another coat laid
on it, the body will be preserved from the effects of tire.
* Many
experiments have proved that the living body has an extraordinary
power of resisting heat, provided it does not come into immediate
contact with the burning substance. The experiments instituted
by Duntze and Tillet on the Continent, and by Dr. Fordyce, Sir
Joseph Banks, and Mr. Blagden, in this country, proved that a
temperature between 198° and 260° Fahr, may be borne with im­
punity, if the feet of the person be covered with flannel, which is
a non-conductor. To prove the influence of this temperature on
inanimate bodies, they placed eggs and a beef-steak upon a tin
frame in a room heated to nearly 300°, near the thermometer: in
the space of twenty minutes the eggs were roasted quite hard,
and in forty-seven minutes the steak was overdone and dry.t The
female of a baker at Rochefoucault, clothed in flannel, was in the
daily habit of entering her master’s oven, and remaining long
enough to remove all the loaves; and Dr. Brewster informs us
that the late Sir Francis Chantry’s workmen entered the oven em­
ployed for drying the molds, an iron apartment fourteen feet long,
twelve feet high, and twelve feet broad, the temperature of which,
with closed doors, was 350°, and the iron floor red-hot. They
were guarded against the heat of the floor by wooden clogs, which
were, of course, charred on the surface. “On one occasion,”
he adds, “ Mr. Chantry, accompanied by five or six of his friends,
entered the furnace, and, after remaining two minutes, they
brought out a thermometer which stood at 320°. Some of the
party experienced sharp pains in the tips of their ears and in the
septum of the nose, while others felt a pain in their eyes.J These
experiments prove the extraordinary heat which the living body
can bear with impunity, and favor the possibility of persons pass­
ing uninjured through flame, provided the body can be guarded
from being scorched by a non-conducting covering of an incom­
bustible nature.—Ed.
* De mirabilibus Mundi, Amatelod., 1762, 12mo. p. 100. His words
are, “ Et post hoc poteris anduetar sustinere ignem sine nocumento.”
t Phil. Transactions, 1773,
t Letters on Natural Magic, 12mo. 1832, p. 319.
Digitized by Google
SECRETS USED IN PAGAN RITES. 295
Issuing triumphant from this trial, his enthusiasm
or his courage might fairly be calculated on; and
it might be presumed that, on a necessary occasion,
he would brave similar dangers, either in the pos­
session of the secrets revealed to him, when deemed
worthy to know them ; or by the religious trust,
without which even these secrets were reputed to
lose their efficacy.
2d. It was not, however, only at the period of
initiations that men were inspired with sacred awe,
by witnessing the marvelous invulnerability with
which these assumed favorites of heaven were en­
dowed ; its success being so well ascertained, it
was frequently displayed in public.
Modern jugglers have appeared to eat burning
fire, without being incommoded by it, yet we pay
little attention to the circumstance. Eunus, the
Syrian,
* who revived the revolt of the slaves in
Sicily,! and Barochebus,! who headed the last re-
♦ Eunus was a Syrian slave, who pretended to have imme­
diate communication with the gods; and he obtained credit for
his visions and pretended prophecies, by playing oft’ the trick men­
tioned in the text. Floras (iii. 19) says, that it was performed
by concealing in his mouth a walnut shell, bored and filled with
ignited sulphur, which, when hq spoke, threw out a flame. His
words are, “ Inore abolita nuce quam sulfure et igne stipaverit,
leniter inspirans fiammam inter verba fundebat.” Not a very
satisfactory explanation.—Ed.
f Floras, lib. iii., cap. xix. To explain how Eunus worked this
miracle, the historian indicates a process almost impracticable.
We thence conclude that Eunus, like many others, resorted to
false assertions, in order the better to conceal his secret.
t Barocbebus, or Shimeon Bar Coehba, signifying in Hebrew
the Son of the Star, was a Jew, who pretended that he was the
Messiah, and applied to himself the prophecy of Baalarn. There
shall come a star out of Jacob, &,c” His approach, as the Mes­
siah, was preached by the Rabbi Aquiba, who was active in stir­
ring the Jews to revolt, and was cast into prison by Lucius Quie­
tus, the Roman goverorof Palestine, under Trajan. Soon after
the return of Adrian, the rebellion of the Jews commenced, head­
ed by Bar Coehba, who gained much confidence for his pretended
miraculous power and his intrepidity. He took Jerusalem a.d.
132: and issued coins, bearing his head on one side, and on the
Digitized by UooQle
296 FIRE AND WATER ORDEALS.
volt of the Jews against Adrian,
* both appeared
to vomit flames while speaking; and though this
trick had enriched the public spectacles three cen­
turies before the Christian era,t still it seemed
miraculous; and supported, in the eyes ofthe multi­
tude, the reality ofthe inspiration which the one pre­
tended to have received from the goddess of Syria,
and the other from the Omnipotent God of Israel.
The priestesses of Diana Parasya, in Cappado­
cia, commanded no less veneration, by walking
with naked feet on burning coals.| The Hirpi,§
members of a small number of families established
on the territories of the Faliscii,|| renewed the same
miracle annually on Mount Soractes, in the temple
of Apollo: their hereditary incombustibility was
of value to them, as it secured their exemption
from military service, and other public business.
Varrofl ascribes it to the efficacy of a liniment,
with which they were careful to anoint the soles
of their feet.
**
other, the legend^ “ Freedom to Jerusalem.” He was, however,
defeated, and slam by Julius Severus, a.d. 135, at the capture of
Bethar, to which he retired after being driven from Jerusalem,
and in which he reigned as a king for three years. His preten­
sions being refuted, both by his life and death, he received the
nickname of Bar Coziba, “ the son of a lie.”—Ed.
* St. Hieronym., Apologetic, ii., adv. Rufin.
t In Macedonia there figured, says Athenians, at the espousals
of Caranus, naked women who vomited flames. (Athen., Deipn.,
lib. iv., cap. i.)
t Strabo, lib. xii.
$ They were called Hirpi, which signifies wolves in the Sum­
nite dialect, from a tradition, that they followed the tracks of
these animals in migrating to the south of Sumnium Proper,
where they settled. They performed the feat attributed to them
at the annual festival, at the temple of Apollo, on Mount Soracte,
in Etruria.—Ed.
II Plin., Hist. Nat., lib. vii., cap. ii.—Solin., cap. viii.
T Ut solent Hirpini qui ambulaturi per ignem, medicamento
plgntas tingunt.—Varro, apud Servium in Virgil.—^Eneid, lib. xi.,
vers. 787, 788.
** This is attributed by Beckmann also (History of Inventions,
transl., vol. iii., p. 277) to the skin of the soles of the feet being
Digitized by C.ooQle
FIKE AND WATER ORDEALS. 297
Thus, in order to penetrate into a sanctuary, the
hero of an Oriental tale
* crossed some water, which
was boiling without the application of fire (evi­
dently a gaseous thermal spring), and traversed
plates of red-hot steel. A pomatum, with which
he had anointed himself, enabled him to brave
both these dangers with impunity.!
3d. A more popular use, and one still better
adapted to augment the sacerdotal power, was
made of this secret.
Man, unskilled in the discernment of error, and
incapable ofconfuting falsehood, has in every coun­
ty demanded from heaven some miracle, which
should expose the criminal or clear the innocent;
thus giving up the honor or the life of his fellow­
creatures to the decision of the priest, to the suc­
cess of a philosophical experiment, to blind chance
or to shameful fraud. Of all ordeals, that of fire
is the most ancient and universal; it has made the
tour of the globe. In Hindostan, its antiquity re­
verts to the reign of the gods. Sita, the wife of
made callous and horny, so as to defend the nerves from the im­
pression which the hot coals would otherwise make upon them.
He relates the following anecdote in support of his assertion :—
“ In the month of September, 1765, when I visited the copper
works at Awestad, one of the workmen, for a little drink-money,
took some of the melted copper in his hand, and, after showing it
to us, threw it against the wall. He then squeezed the lingers
of his homy hand close to each other; put it a few minutes
under his armpit, to make it sweat, as he said; and taking it
out again, drew it over a ladle- filled with melted copper, some
of which he skimmed, and moved his hand backward and for­
ward very quickly, by way of ostentation.” Beckmann adds,
“ I remarked a smell like that of singed horn, or leather, though
his hand was not burnt.”—Ed.
* Les mille et un Jours, 491e Jour.
f This is much better explained by the callous state of the
soles of the feet as already mentioned; and we are told by Beck­
mann (loco citato) that this may be effected by frequently moisten­
ing the parts with sulphuric acid, or by constantly, for a long
time, rubbing the feet with oil, which produces in the skin the
same homy state as it causes in leather.—Ed.
Digitized by
298 FIRE AND WATER ORDEALS.
Rama, the sixth incarnation of Vishnu, submitted
to it, and stood on red-hot iron, to clear herself
from the injurious suspicions of her husband.
“ The foot of Sita,” say the Hindoo historians,
“ being clothed in innocence, the devoring heat
was to her as a bed of roses.”*
This trial is still practiced in several ways by
the Hindoos. A creditable witness saw two ac­
cused persons subjected to it; one carried in his
hand a red-hot ball of iron without receiving any
injury, the other submitted to the trial of boiling
oil.t But we must observe, that the latter was
accused by a Bramin, and that all the Hindoo or­
deals are under the influence of the priests.
For the rest, the mystery of their success is not
very difficult to penetrate. The same writer was
acquainted with a preparation, known also to the
Hindoo Pandits, by which the bands, when anointed
with it, might resist the effects of heat, and handle
red-hot iron.f Thus it is easy for the Pandits to
do a good turn to those criminals, whom they fa­
vor, by attaching various substances, particularly
leaves of trees, to their hands, before the trial.§
A Mohammedan traveler, who visited Hindostan
in the nineteenth century, saw the fiery ordeal
conducted in the same manner. The trial by boil­
ing water he also found in use there, and a man,
who submitted to it in his presence, withdrew his
hand, quite uninjured.
Zoroaster, eager to confute his calumniators,
allowed melted lead to be poured over his body,
and he received no injury.|| Does it follow that
t Forster, Travels from Bengal to Petersburg, vol. i.,pp. 267,268.
t Recherches Asiatiques, tome i., pp. 478-483,
t Ibid, p. 482.
$ Ibid, pp. 477-479.
|| Anciennes relations des Indes et de la Chins, traduites par
Renaudot, pp. 37, 38.
Digitized by GooQle
FIRE AND WATER ORDEALS. 299
he employed a preservative, analogous to that
made use of by the Hindoo Pandits? On this
point, his biographer is silent; but we learn, that
previous to undergoing this frightful trial, his ad­
versaries rubbed his body with various drugs.
*
Was this not evidently intended to destroy the
effect of the salutary liniments which had been
previously applied, and the knowledge and appli­
cation of which they supposed him to be forearmed,
although they failed in effecting their intention ?
The ordeal by fire, and the secret of enduring it
without injury, were very early known in Greece.
In Sophocles, the Thebanst suspected of exhum­
ing the body of Polynicius, exclaim: “We are
prepared to prove our innocence, by handling
heated
* irons, or walking on the flames.” This
ordeal and the secret of enduring it, survived the
decline of Polytheism.}:
* Vie de Zoroasire. Zenda-vesta, tome L, partie ii., pp. 32, 33.
t Sophocl., Antigon., v. 274.
t Simplicus was elevated to the papal throne a.d. 497. He
was previously married, but he separated himself from his wife,
although she lived in the house with him. This circumstance
having given birth to some scandalous reports, the lady resolved
to prove her innocence by the ordeal of fire; and, for this pur­
pose, chose a solemn day, and, in the presence of the assembled
people, carried fire in her hands, and threw it upon her clothes
without their being in the smallest degree damaged. She then
placed some of the fire on the clothes of her husband with the
same effect, and addressed him in the following words: “Receive
this fire, which will not burn you, in order to convince our ene­
mies that our hearts are as inaccessible to the fire of nuptial in­
tercourse as our clothes are to the action of these burning coals.”
This apparent miracle astonished all who witnessed it, and at
once silenced the calumny. After what has been said upon the
power of walking on burning bodies, and the fact that the forma­
tion of cloth with asbestos, and the property of rendering common
cloth incombustible by soaking it in a concentrated solution of
alum, were known long before the above period, we can have no
difficulty in explaining the assumed miracle.
It is melancholy to know that this custom had been trans­
planted from the pagan temples into the Christian churches. At
the same time, it is gratifying to find, that in the year 840, the
Digitized by UooQle
300 FIRE AND WATER QRDEALS.
Pachymerus
* asserts, that he saw several ac­
cused persons acquit themselves, by handling red-
hot irons, without receiving injury. At Dydmo-
theque,t a wife was ordered by her husband to
submit to this trial, to clear herself from injurious
suspicions. These were well founded, as the wom­
an confessed to the bishop. By his advice she
consented to lift the red-hot iron; and having car­
ried it three times round a chair, at her husband’s
desire, she placed it upon the chair, which imme­
diately took fire. The husband no longer doubted
the fidelity of his wife. Cantacuzene relates the
fact as a miracle, we quote it as a proof of the wise
instructions and indulgent connivance ofthe bishop.
* Johnson’s English Canons, a.d. 1065.
In 1065, some Angevin monks, in a lawsuit, pro­
duced as a witness an old man, who, in the midst
of the Great Church of Angers, was subjected to
the ordeal of boiling water. The monks declared
the water in the caldron to be heated to an ex­
traordinary degree the witness confirmed the
learned Agoband, Archbishop of Lyons, pronounced ordeals to be
tempting God, and contrary to his law, as well as to the precepts
of charity. They had been previously condemned by the Council
of Worms in 829; and they were also proscribed by Gregory the
Great. In England, they were suppressed by Act of Parliament,
in the third year of the reign of Henry HI.
* There were three
ordeals, or, as they were also termed, vulgar purgations; namely,
one by fire, in which the accused person either placed his hand
on red-hot iron, or walked barefoot over it; another by boiling
water, into which the supposed culprit plunged his bared arm, to
take out a stone at the bottom of the vessel; and a third by cold
water, in which, if the person was drowned, he was pronounced
guilty. The last was chiefly used for the trial of witches, and
was resorted to long after the law for the suppression of ordeals
was passed.—Ed.
* Pachym., lib. i., cap. xii.
t Toward the year 1340, of our era.—Cantacuzene, lib. iiL,
cap. 27.
t Water, unless it contain common salt, or some other saline
substance, can not be heated above 212o Fahr.; So that this very
declaration displayed a disposition to mislead the ignorant spec­
Digitized by UooQle
FIRE AND WATER ORDEALS. 301
truth of his testimony, by coming out of it unin­
jured. At the commencement of the same cen­
tury, the Deacon Poppon, desirous to win Sweyn
II., King of Denmark, and the Danes back to
Christianity, thrust his hand and arm, bared to the
elbow, into a gauntlet heated to a white heat, car­
ried it through the assembled Danes, and, having
laid it at the feet of the prince, appeared quite
unscathed.
*
* Brewster’s Letters on Natural Magic, p. 302.
Harold, pretending to be the son of Magnus,
King of Norway,! and as such claiming the succes­
sion, he was required to prove his birth by the
fiery ordeal. He submitted to it, and walked over
red-hot iron with impunity.
Two centuries later, Albertus MagnusJ described
two processes, by which a transient incombustibil­
ity might be imparted to the body of a man. A
writer of the sixteenth century§ pretends that it is
sufficient to wash the hands in wine lees, and sub-
tators by enhancing the severity of the ordeal. Fluids that boil
at a low temperature may have been substituted for water; and,
as Sir David Brewster properly remarks, “ even when the fluid
requires a high temperature to boil, it may have other properties,
which enable us to plunge our hands into it with impunity.” He
details a fact, mentioned to him by Mr. Davenport, who saw one
of the workmen in the King’s Dock at Chatham, immerse his
arm in boiling tar; and Mr. Davenport immersed his forefinger
in it, and moved it about for some time “ before the heat became
inconvenient.” Now tar does qot boil at a lower temperature
than 220°, or eight degrees above that of boiling water; and the
phenomenon can only be explained by the fact that tar is a worse
conductor of heat than water, and altogether a bad conductor.
Mr. Davenport ascribes this non-conducting power of the boiling
tar to the abundant volatile matter which is evolved “ carrying
off rapidly the caloric in a latent state, and intervening between
the tar and the skin, so as to prevent the more rapid communica­
tion of heat.”*—En.
* Saxo-Grammat., Hist. Dan., lib. x.
t Died in 1047.—Saxo-Grammat., Hist. Dan., lib. xiii.
t Albert., De mirabilibus mundi.
$ E. Taboureau, Desfaux sorciers.
Digitized by Google
302 NULLIFYING THE EFFECTS OF HEAT.
sequently to steep them in fresh water, in order to
allow a stream of molten lead to pass over them
without injury. His assertion that he proved it
experimentally upon himself may be doubted.
* The charlatans who plunge ' their hands into
molten lead may deceive our eyes by substituting
for lead a composition of the same color, which
becomes liquid at a very moderate heat; such is
the fusible metal of Darcet.
* Were it necessary,
I believe that science could also readily furnish an
easily fusible metal, outwardly resembling copper
or bronze. From science also may be derived the
secret of giving the appearance of ebullition to a
moderately heated fluid. But judicial or religious
ordeals have not always been in the hands of men
disposed to favor deceit. In that of the red-hot
iron, it is not easy to conceive fraud ; and the se­
cret of nullifying its effects has ever been as uni­
versal as its use. The knowledge of it has also
been widely extended. One of the Eastern Tales
we have so often quoted, mentions a man, of the
inferior classes, who plunged his hand into the fire
and handled red-hot iron without being burned.!
* The fusible metal is a compound of mercury, tin, and bis­
muth, and resembles lead in its color. It melts at so low a tem­
perature, that a tea-spoon made of it dissolves in a cup of hot tea.
It was most probably this metal, in a fused state, which Richard­
son, an English juggler in the end of the seventh century, poured
upon his tongue instead of melted lead, which he professed to
employ. We are not informed what he substituted for melted
glass and burning coals, which he appeared to chew. A conjurer,
who exhibited himself ten or twelve years ago in the metropolis,
excited much astonishment by swallowing phosphorus. I am of
opinion that this was effected by instantly closing the mouth, so
as to prevent the ignition of the phosphorus; and in a few min­
utes afterward, on leaving the room, which he always did after
the feat, he ejected it from his stomach, by causing vomiting.
Phosphorus does not inflame unless it be exposed to the action
of the air.—Ed.
t Contes inedits des Mills et une Nuits (Paris, 1828), tome iii.,
pp. 436, 437.
Digitized by UooQle
NULLIFYING THE EFFECTS OF HEAT. 303
We discover the same secret in two different parts
of Africa. In the country of the Caffres and in
Loango, some Portuguese travelers saw the ac­
cused called on to justify themselves, by taking
hold ofred-hot iron. It is a law among the loloffs,
*
that, when a man denies a crime imputed to him,
a red-hot iron shall be applied to his tongue, and
according as the fire affects him, he is declared
culpable or innocent; but all the accused are not
condemned.
How is it then, that the secret of resisting this
ordeal is still so imperfectly known to European
philosophers, notwithstanding our intercourse with
Hindostan, where it certainly exists 1 In our own
days, men, claiming to be considered incombusti­
ble, have submitted their experiments to the in­
spection of the most enlightened men in France
with as much confidence as a mere popular exhi­
bition.
Uncertainty on this point must soon end. While
this invulnerability has been, by several learned
men, ascribed to long habit, and a peculiar organ­
ization, Doctor Semintini proposes, as the solution
of the problem, the probable interposition of some
foreign substance between the skin and the glow­
ing body : he has ascertained, that a saturated so­
lution of alum preserves any part strongly impreg­
nated with it from the action of fire, particularly
if the skin is rubbed with soap after the application
of the alum.t He states that, by means of this
* G. Mollien, Voyage done Pinteriewr de VAfrique, du Senegal., et
de la Gambie, tome i., p. 105.
t This opinion is highly probable, as we are informed by Beck­
mann, that, in Catholic countries, where the ordeal by nre was
taken as the exculpatory evidence of crime, the accused person
was placed three days and three nights under the care of the
priests, both before and after the trial, in order, it was alledged,
.to prevent him from preparing his hands by art. His hands were
covered up, and the coverings sealed during the three days which
Digitized by UooQle
304 NULLIFYING THE EFFECTS OF HEAT.
preparation, he repeated, on his own person, the
experiments of the incombustible men.
This precess, the efficiency of which has been
tested and confirmed by recent experiments, was
probably the same as made use of by the ancients,
since they also employed inert materials to enable
them to encounter the flames.
Independently ofthe art ofspinning and weaving
the asbestos, which was carried so far as to sur­
prise the ignorant by apparent miracles wrought
with its agency, the ancients were acquainted with
the fact, that wood, saturated with alum, was capa­
ble of withstanding the flames for a length of time.
Such was the wooden tower raised by Archelaust
in the Pireus, which Sylla in vain attempted to
burn; and which, if we can credit the historian
Quadrigarius, was rendered incombustible by Ar-
chelaus having taken care to impregnate the wood
of which it was constructed with alum.f The
wooden tower of larch-wood, which Caesar found
it impossible to set on fire,§ must have been pre­
served by a similar precaution. This was also,
without doubt, the secret of the wood made use of
in Turkistan, which preserved the houses built of
it from fire.|| We are acquainted with no species
of incombustible wood : consequently the opinion
preceded and followed the ordeal. “ It is highly probable,” says
Beckmann, “ that during the three first days, the preventive was
applied to those persons whom they (the priests) wished to ap­
pear innocent: and that the three days after the trial were requi­
site to let the hands resume their natural appearance.” When
the ordeal was abolished, and this art became valueless, the secret
was lost.—En.—Beckm.,77i
*
t ofInventions, trans.,vol. iii., p. 281.
* Essai sur la Physiologic Hvmaine, par G. Grimaud et V. C.
Durocher, Paris, 1826, p. 76.
t A king of Cappadocia, who was conquered by Sylla as a pun­
ishment for assisting Mithridates.—Ed.
t A. Claud., Quadrigar. Annal., lib. xix., apud. A. Gell., lib. xv.,
cap. i. $ Vilruv. de ardutKl., lib. ii., cap. ix.
Il Histoire de Gengiskan, p. 144.
Digitized by C>ooQle
INFLUENCE OVER ANIMALS. 305
prevailing in Asia, Greece, and Gaul respecting
the existence of this marvelous quality in the
larch,
* or any other tree, only served, under the
veil of a pretended miracle, to conceal a real and
valuable secret, the exclusive possession of which
Was thus secured.
CHAPTER XVI.
Secrets to work upon the Senses of Animals.—Ancient and
modern Examples.—Of the Power of Harmony.—The power
of good Treatment.—Crocodiles and Snakes tamed.—Reptiles
whose Venom can either be Destroyed or Extracted.—Ancient
Psylli.—The Faculty which they possessed of braving the Bites
of Serpents put beyond Doubt, by the frequent recent and re­
peated Experiments in Egypt.—This Faculty proceeds from
odoriferous Emanations, which affect the Senses ofthe Reptiles,
and escape those of Man.
Almost as terrible in their effects as fire, and
often more difficult to avoid, are venomous reptiles
and ferocious animals : it may be asked, do they
lose their power to injure at the command of a
man aided by a supernatural science 1 Many of
the recitals of the ancients upon this subject have
aroused the incredulity of the moderns. The his­
tory of Orpheus passes with many for a pleasing
allegory; and it was believed that those men, those
Manades who played with tigers and panthers, and
who, in the representations of the initiations, han­
dled serpents with impunity, were merely jugglers.
It is not, however, denied that there existed oc­
cult methods of acting on animals who are free
from our empire by their natural independance.
The odor of catmint,] and that of marum,] exer-
* Abies larix, a native of Europe, Russia, and Siberia.—Ed.
tNepeta cataria, a perennial plant, common on gravelly and
chalky banks, and on road sides, flowering in July. It is a soft,
hoary plant, with the upper part of the flower white, but the
lower lip spotted with crimson. The whole plant exhales a strong,
pungent odor, peculiarly grateful to cats.—Ed.
t Teucrium marum, cat-thyme, a native of the shores of the
I. u
Digitized by Google
306 INFLUENCE OVER ANIMALS.
cises so powerful an influence on the sense ofsmell­
ing of cats, particularly in warm climates, that it ap­
pears marvelous to any one who witnesses the ef­
fects of it for the first time. It is easy to take ad­
vantage of these and similar plants for enticing the
animals whom they affect. If we may believe an­
cient observers, the elephant loves sweet odors,
such as those of flowers and perfumes,
* and sbe-
goats of the Caucasus are so delighted with the
odor of cinnamon, that they will eagerly follow the
hand which presents it to them.! In London, at
this day, some men possess the art of enticing rats
from their holes, and constraining them, in broad day,
to enter into a rat-trap : the charm consists in some
of the straw, placed in the trap, saturated with the
oil of cumin,J and of anis.§ In the last century, a
man might have been seen walking covered with a
swarm of bees, which spread themselves over his
hands and face, and seemed to have forgotten the
use of their wings and their stings. It is probable
that this secret resembled that which we have
pointed out. *
Exposure to ferocious beasts was an ordeal used
in the Roman Empire; consequently, secrets prop­
er for lulling the ferocity of ravenous animals were,
most probably, well known. Maricus, who, under
Vitellius, endeavored to restore the Gauls to free-
Mediterranean. Cats are so fond of the odor of this marwn, that
they tear the plant when they meet with it. Our author might
have added valerian to his list of plants.—Ed.
* jElian, De Nat. Anim., lib. i., cap. xxxviii.; lib. xiii., cap. viii.
t Philostrat., Vit. Apollon., lib. iii., cap. i.
j Cuminum cyminwn, a native of Upper Egypt, and cultivated
in Sicily and Malta. The fruit resembles carraway, and has a
powerful aromatic odor, depending on its volatile oil, the odor of
which is not agreeable to men, although extremely delightful to
rats.—Ed.
6 Pimpinella aniswn, a native of Scio, Egypt, and Asia. The
volatile oil has a powerful, yet not unpleasant aromatic odor. It
is poisonous to pigeons.—Ed.
Digitized by UooQle
INFLUENCE OVER ANIMALS. 307
dom, passed himself off for a god. Being captured
in battle, he was delivered up to wild beasts; but
he received no injury from them: an event which
appeared to confirm his pretensions, until Vitellius
caused him to be devoured.
* The Egyptian Sera-
piont predicted a similar death to Caracalla; a
famished lion was let loose upon the prophet; he
presented his hand to the animal, who retired with­
out injuring him. Another ordeal, however, proved
fatal to him.} When wild beasts were let loose
upon Thecles, some of the women having thrown
upon him spikenard,§ others cassia,|| a third set
precious aromatics, and a fourth perfumed oil, the
beasts were as if overcome with sleep, and The­
cles escaped untouched. This recital, borrowed
from a work which dates from the commencement
of Christianity, is probably founded on a real inci-
* Tacit., Histor., lib. ii., cap. Ixi.
t Serapion was a physician of Alexandria, in the third century.
His prediction was drawn forth by the vices and cruelties of Car­
acalla, who. in consequence of a joke, which likened him to
(Edipus ana his wife to Jocasta, slaughtered many thousands at
Alexandria. He was assassinated at Edessa, by Macrinus, a.d.
217, in the forty-third year of his age. The author, therefore,
labors under a mistake m attributing his death to an ordeal.—Ed.
t Xiphilin. in Anton. Caracal.
§ Spikenard, Nardastachys latamansi of De Candolle, the Nard
of the Bible, and the Nardo-stachys of the ancients. It is known
in India by the name bal-chur. It is a mountain plant, belonging
to the natural order, valerianaceae, and has a close affinity to the
Celtic valerian, which is found on the mountains of Austria;
whence it is exported to Egypt on account of its powerful yet
agreeable odor, for perfuming baths. In India, the iatamansi is
used for scenting oils and perfumes.—Ed.
II The name cassia is here probably intended for cinnamon, as
the oil of the laurus cassia has not an agreeable odor. The term
kaschu-manis, sweet wood, derived from two Malayan words, is
frequently used for cinnamon in India. The wood of the tree,
without being barked, was anciently carried into Greece by the
Phoenicians, who, at the same time, probably also imported the
oil; and it is more likely that, in the ceremony referred to in the
text, neither the spikenard nor the cinnamon was used, but merely
the volatile oil of these plants.—Ed.
Digitized by
308 INFLUENCE OVER ANIMALS.
dent; and affords a proof that the use of penetra­
ting odors has sometimes been able to save the
wretches condemned to satiate the hunger of car­
nivorous animals. From a fact related with some
details by Athenaeus, it would appear that, in
Egypt, the juice of the citron, taken internally,
was used to work this assumed miracle. The ex­
periment that he relates is the more striking, as,
on repeating it, one of the wretches who had es­
caped death was permitted to use this precaution,
a favor which was denied to another. The first
was spared by the ferocious beasts; the second
perished, being immediately torn to pieces.
* It
may be rationally doubted whether the citron has
ever been thus efficacious; but the rind might
serve to inclose more powerful ingredients.! Ac­
cording to jElian a coating of elephant’s grease is
an infallible preservative the odor—as penetra­
ting as it is fetid—peculiar to the carcass of this
great quadruped, renders this less incredible. A
similar secret will doubtless explain the security
of the jugglers who, says Tertullian, are seen, in
public places, exposed to the fury of ferocious
beasts, whose bites they defy and avoid with won­
derful agility. Firmus, who was invested for a
time with the imperial purple at Alexandria, swam
among crocodiles with impunity: it is supposed
that he owed this preservation to the odor of the
crocodile’s grease with which he had rubbed his
body.§ It is probable that the knowledge of an
♦ Athen., lib. iii., cap. v.
t The juice of the citrus medica is not unlike that of the or­
ange. The odor of the rind is grateful, but not very powerful; it
is therefore more probable that the fruit, after the abstraction of
the juice, was filled with strong odors, than that the juice of the
fruit itself, taken internally, was employed for the purpose men­
tioned in the text.—Eo.
t ^Elian, De Nat. Animal., lib. i., cap. xxxvii.
$ Vospic. in Eirmo.
Digitized by C>ooQLe
INFLUENCE OVER ANIMALS. 309
analogous secret having become common, was the
cause of a similar ordeal formerly employed in
Hindostan falling into disuse. The accused was
obliged, in the presence of Bramins, to swim across
a river frequented by the moudela (crocodile); and
was only absolved when he escaped from the jaws
of this amphibious animal.
* The Mexican priests
rubbed the body with a pomade, to which they
attributed magical virtues; and at night they wan­
dered in desert places, without fearing ferocious
beasts, the odor of this unguent keeping them at a
distance. There still exists a method of making
animals, generally formidable, follow any one with­
out danger: a feat commonly practiced by men
who make a trade of enticing away dogs for sale
to supply anatomists; and sometimes by hunters,
who wish to allure wolves into a snare. It con­
sists in striking the sense of the male by odors
resembling the emanations which the female ex­
hales in the time of rutting. It has been men­
tioned in detail, by one of the most original and
the most philosophical writers of the sixteenth
century.! Galenf has also mentioned it; but it
was known long before the time of that celebrated
* Paulin de St. Barth61emi, Voyage, Ape., vol. i., p. 428. The
crocodile of the Ganges differs from that of the Nile, and is placed
by Cuvier in that division of the tribe named Glaviales; but it is
equally voracious as the Egyptian reptile. As the Egyptian priests
possessed the secret of taming their crocodiles, it is not improb­
able that the Bramins also tamed the moudela. The ordeal men­
tioned in the text was performed in their presence; and when
they were desirous ofexculpating the accused, a part of the river
containing the tame crocodile might be selected. The tame croco­
diles in Egypt were fed with cakes and sweetmeats; and rings
and precious stones were hung in the opercula of their ears, which
were pierced for the purpose, and their forefeet adorned with
bracelets, when they were presented for the veneration of the
people; a demonstrative proof of the tameness to which they
were reduced.—Ed.
t Rabelais, Hist, de Gargantua et de Pantagruel, lib. i., chap. xxii.
J Galen, lib, i., Aphorism, xxii.
Digitized by Google
310 INFLUENCE OVER ANIMALS.
physician. In the temple of Olympus, a bronze
horse was exhibited, at the sight of which real
horses experienced the most violent emotions.
JElian judiciously observes that the most perfect
art could not imitate nature sufficiently well to
produce so strong an illusion: like Pliny and Pau­
sanias,
* he consequently affirms, that in the casting
of the statue, a magician had thrown some hippo­
manes upon it; and thus we have the secret of the
apparent miracle. Every time they desired to
work it, they duly covered the bronze with liquid
hippomanes, or with a drug which exhaled the
odor of it.t
A similar artifice attracted the bulls toward the
brazen heifer, the master-piece of Myron, as it is
not probable that these animals were sensible of
the beauty of the sculpture: a less perfect repre­
sentation would, under similar circumstances, have
equally provoked their desires.
The same secret shows, perhaps, the origin of
the dream by which, it was said, a mortal favored
by the gods drew after him lions and tigers, who
were thus deprived of their ferocity. This miracle
has been attributed more generally to the power
of music. Plato assures us that song and melody
can tame savage animals, and even reptiles.^ We
might be tempted to believe that, in this case, the
philosopher had allowed himself to be governed
♦ Pausanias, Eliac., lib. i., cap. xxvii.—Plin., Hist. Nat., lib.
xxviii., cap. it—JSlian, De Nat. Animal., lib. xiv., cap. xviii.
t The hippomanes is a plant which grows in Arcadia—by which
young coursers and swift mares are excited to furious desires.—
(Theocrit., Eidyll, it, vers. 48,49.) Junius Philargyrus (in Geor­
gia., lib. iii., v. 280) confines the effect of this plant to the mares
who eat of it. Nevertheless, perhaps, the odor which this vege­
table exhaled was the principal of its properties, and they were
enabled to make use ofit to work the assumed miracle which has
been noticed.
t Plato, De Rep., lib. ii.
Digitized by UooQle
INFLUENCE OVER ANIMALS. 311
by the not very philosophic liveliness of his imagi­
nation, or that he had only repeated an opinion,
which we might suppose was not received from
nor founded upon observation. The charm of
music, however, has consoled elephants in their
captivity, when they have fallen into the power of
man; and, in their domestic state, the execution
of measured airs and harmonized chords is suffi­
cient, it is said, to make them stand erect upon
their hind legs.
* In Libya, savage mares are so
sensible to music, that it has been used as a method
of taming them.} Even some fish, we are told,
are not free from its power, and it has made the
capture of them much more easy and moderns,
less disposed to be credulous, are nevertheless
forced to acknowledge the power which music
exercises over tortoises and spiders.§ Its influence
over elephants has been frequently verified before
our eyes, in public exhibitions. A traveler has
also informed us that he saw, with surprise, the
cumbrous hippopotamus so delighted by the meas­
ured noise of a war-march, as to follow the drums,
swimming the whole length of a river. Large liz­
ards and iguanos are still more susceptible of har­
monious sounds. A song, and even soft and meas­
ured whistling, have more than once been able to
stop them, until they were under the hand of the
hunter.||
* AClian, De Nat. Animal,, lib. xii., cap. xliv.; lib. ii., cap. ii.
t lb., lib. xii., cap. xliv.
t Z6., lib. vi., cap. xxxi., xxxii. It is perhaps on this account
that fishermen, who are generally extremely superstitious, sing a
peculiar crone in dredging oysters.—Ed.
$ We are not aware of the ground upon which this remark of
our author is founded ; as the organ of hearing in spiders has not
been discovered, and that of the tortoise is not well adapted for
the delicacy of musical sounds.—Ed.
II Lac6p£de, Histoire Naturelie des Quadrupedes Oyipares, art.
Iguane.—Fournier-Pescay, Dictionnaire des Sciences Medicales, art.
Musique.
Digitized by Google
312 INFLUENCE OVER ANIMALS.
Cats, who are overcome or frightened by sounds
that are too piercing, are agreeably affected by
music, if the softness of its modulations are propor­
tionate to the susceptibility of their organs. Dogs,
on the co> .trary, appear to be sensible to none but
mournful music. Loud and piercing sounds draw
from them only prolonged howlings.
In a temple, a lyre, which passed for that of
Orpheus, was preserved; an amateur bought it,
persuaded that in touching it he should, like the
first possessor of the instrument, see animals run­
ning round him charmed by the melody. He made
a trial of it in a remote place, and soon perished,
having been tom to pieces by savage dogs.
* It
was not only, as Lucian pretends, his presumption
which cost him his life, but his imprudence; and
the forgetfulness of a physical effect which daily
experience recalls to our recollection, and which
would place the life of an organ-player in danger,
if out of the reach of succor. He made the harsh
sounds of his instrument to resound in the midst of
a troop of wild dogs.t
* Lucian... . “ Centre un Ignorant qui achetait beaucoup de Li-
vreg.
*
' CEuvreg completes de Lucien, tome iv., pp. 274-276.
t The influence of loud and harsh sounds on dogs is well ex­
emplified in the following anecdote, recorded by Sir David Brew­
ster, in his Letters on Natural Magic : “ When peace was pro­
claimed in London, in 1697, two troops of horse were dismounted,
and drawn up in line in order to fire their volleys. Opposite the
center of the line was the door of a butcher’s shop, where there
was a large mastiff dog of great courage. The dog was sleeping
by the fire ; but when the first volley was discharged, it immedi­
ately started up, ran into another room, and hid itself under a
bed. On the firing of the second volley, the dog rose, ran sev­
eral times about the room, trembling violently, and apparently in
great agony. When the third volley was fired, the dog ran about
once or twice with great violence, and instantly fell down dead,
throwing up blood from the mouth and nose.” (p. 216.) It may
be said, that the dog, in this instance, might have been dreaming,
and connected the noise of the firing with some incident in his
dream sufficient to excite great alarm ; but we are told that ha
was a dog of great courage, and although he might bo greatly
Digitized by C.ooQle
INFLUENCE OVER ANIMALS. 313
The influence of modulated sounds upon ani­
mals must have been more studied formerly than
it is in the present day; the experiments were
more varied, and their results more extended.
Let us remember that, in the temples, they sought
out and tried every method of working what they
desired to be regarded as miracles; and what won­
der could be more seducing or more worthy of be­
ing represented in the celebration of those myste­
ries, of which Orpheus was one of the principal
founders, than that which realized the brilliant
miracle of that musician 1
We are ignorant how far the moral development
of animals extends. We, who in our relations
with them, obtain every thing by terror, by con­
straint, by hardship, and by punishments, rarely
or never seek to know what may be obtained from
them by mildness, by caresses, or by amiable feel­
ings. We seem practically to follow the absurd
opinion of Descartes: we treat animals as if they
were only machines. Less enlightened nations
than ourselves treat them as sensible beings, as
creatures not less susceptible of kindness than men
—beings who may be led by good treatment, and
by that part of their feelings and affections of
which these nations know how to take advantage.
What can be thus obtained, renders probable all
that ancient authors have related of savage animals
which have become domesticated, and have even
been rendered affectionate. Cynocephali have lost
their love of unsettled independence, and bulls their
wild and suspicious temper; even lions and eagles
have lowered their pride, and exchanged it for a
agitated on being awakened by the firing, yet it is not likely that
thia alarm would continue to such an extent as to cause death.
We must, therefore, refer it to the great susceptibility of dogs for
sound, and the effect of so loud a concussion of the air on hia
nervous system,—Ed.
Digitized by UooQle
314 INFLUENCE OVER ANIMALS.
submissive attachment to the man from whom they
have received kindness.
*
Goats and crows were brought into the temples
to declare the oracles; but the learned animals that
are frequently offered to public curiosity show us
what part of the will of Heaven charlatanism could
draw from these singular interpreters.
We may hesitate, therefore, before denying the
existence of the tamed tigers, which so many tra­
ditions inform us figured in the fetes of Bacchus;
and which, bred at Thebes, attended in the tem­
ples of that god, opening and closing their fright­
ful jaws, that there might be poured into their
throats, at long intervals, draughts of wine,t with
which prudence probably mixed some soporific
drugs.
* JElian, De Nat. Animal., lib. ii., cap. xL; lib. v., cap. xxxix.;
lib. vi., cap. x.; lib. xii, cap. xxiii. The editor saw the exhibi­
tion of Van Amburgh, when he visited London in 1843. He fear­
lessly entered the grated boxes or dens containing tigers and other
savage animals, who seemed to regard him with no evil inten­
tions; and, indeed, were completely submissive to his control.
The method which this man employed to tame these animals is
not known; but it is probable that it was partly gratitude and
partly fear which held them in submission. He regularly fed
them himself, and their.hunger was well satiated before his pub­
lic exhibitions. The ferociousness of wild carnivorous animals
may be regarded as a gift of Providence, to enable them to obtain
their subsistence. They occasionally fight with each other, and
the conquered may even be devoured by the conqueror; but it
does not follow that their dispositions are naturally cruel, or that
the ferocity which they display is exerted for other purposes than
in procuring their prey wnen hunger prompts. Even animals
usually supposed to have a natural enmity to each other, as the
hawk and tne linnet, if well fed, display no disposition to exert
animosity. A striking proof of this remark is daily exhibited in
the streets of London, by a person who has a cage containing
cats, mice, hawks, linnets, rabbits, and various other animals,
living together in perfect amity. It is therefore very possible
that a man, being exposed to wild beasts, soon after they have
been well fed, would remain unattacked; and thus an apparent
miracle be produced.—Ed.
t “ Expectant que cibue, fuso que horrenda tupinanl ora fliers?’
(Stat., Thebaid., lib. vii., vers. 575, 576 )
Digitized by UooQle
INFLUENCE OVER ANIMALS. 315
Tbe employment of carrier-pigeons did not take
its rise in civilized Europe; its antiquity is so great
in the East, that the national writers affirm it was
used in the Pantapole of Palestine. Among the
Arabs two months were sufficient for the educa­
tion of a pigeon : bad treatment had no part in it;
and the pigeons were so well brought up, that, ac­
cording to the direction in which they were placed,
they carried messages to three different places.
*
The Greeks were not ignorant of this art. A dove
flew from Pisa to the isle of ^Egina, to announce
to the father of Taurosthenus the victory which
that wrestler had won, the same day, in the Olym­
pic games. This fact, though not common, ap­
peared too simple for the friends of the marvelous!
In detailing the event, instead of the winged mes­
senger they substituted a phantom, an apparition.!.
Ancient history informs us of more than one vic­
tory, the news of which had arrived almost at the
moment in which it was accomplished; and, prob­
ably by an analogous process, even in places dis­
tant from that in which the battle had been fought.
The means of communication being kept secret,
its rapidity appeared a miracle due to the inter­
vention of some supernatural agent.
If it were proposed to a European to tame a
crocodile, and if he undertook the task, he would
probably employ hunger and the privation ofsleep;
and he would endeavor to weaken the animal un­
til he rendered him docile or incapable of resist-
♦ The Carrier-Dove (translated from the Arabic, by Sylvester de
Sacy, in 8vo., Paris, 1805), pp. 36, 52, 74.
t ASlian, Var. Hist., lib. ix., cap. ii,—Pausanias, Eliac., lib. ii.,
cap. ix. In the last days of the Roman republic, Hirtius em­
ployed the same method to communicate his movements to De­
cimus Brutus, besieged in Modena. (Frontin., Stra., lib. iii., cap.
xiii.) The impatience of swallows to fly back to their nests has
caused them to be employed in a similar manner. Pliny has
quoted two examples of it. {Hist. Nat,, lib. x„ cap. xxv.)
Digitized by
316 INFLUENCE OVER ANIMALS.
ance. Would he succeed 1 We may reply in the
negative. Mr. Laing
* saw, at the house of the
King of the Soulimas.t a tamed crocodile as gentle
as a dog; but this animal was a prisoner, shut up in
a pond in the palace. Would it not, we may in­
quire, regain its natural ferocity were it set at lib­
erty 1 The Scheik of Suakemf having caught a
young crocodile, tamed it, and kept it in a pond
near the sea. The animal grew very large, but
did not lose its docility; the prince placed himself
upon its back, and was carried a distance of more
than three hundred steps by it.§ In the isle of
Sumatra, in 1823, an immense crocodile establish­
ed itself at the mouth of the Beaujang; it had
chased away all the other crocodiles, and devour­
ed all those who ventured to return. The inhabi­
• Laing, Travels among the Timauniee, the Kouranko, and the
Soulimana, p. 353,
t The Soulimas are a negro race, occupying the country near
the river loliba, on the coast of Sierra Leone. They are a short,
muscular, and warlike people.—Ed.
’t A sea-port town in Nubia, on the west coast of the Red Sea.
—Ed.
§ Vincent le Blanc, Voyages, Ifcre partie, chap, ix., tome i.,
p. 39.
II John Anderson, missionary to the eastern side of Sumatra,
in the year 1823.—Nouvelles Annates des Voyages, tome xxx., p.
260. The crocodile of the Ganges is also very easy to tame.—
Voyages aux Index Orientates, by P. Paulin de Saint BartbSleuu,
tome iii., pp. 281, 282, note,
tants rendered it divine homage, and respectfully
supplied it with food, “ Pass,” said they to the
English missionaries who relate the feet, and who
seemed afraid to approach the formidable amphibi­
ous creature, “ pass on, our god is merciful.” In
fact, it peaceably regarded the Europeans’ boat,
without giving any signs either of fear or anger, or
of a wish to attack it.|[ This trait recalls to recol­
lection the sacred crocodiles which the people of
Upper Egypt worshiped. We might ask, is that•
*
*
§
Digitized by U.ooQle
INFLUENCE OVER ANIMALS. 317
a fact? can it be possible? Did not the priests
every day run the chance of becoming the prey
of their divinities, of ponderous and fierce animals,
formidable on the earth, and still more so in the
water ? Far from this being the case, we see how
easy it is to tame the worshiped animals, who, thus
reassured, by long experience, against the fear of
the aggressions of man and the anxiety of want,
lose their savage instinct. There was, therefore,
probably little exaggeration in what was said of
the sacred crocodiles by a disciple of the Egyp­
tian priests: “ The soukh-oos is kind, for he never
harms any animal.”*
* Damasc., Isidori Vit. an. Photium. Bibl., cod. 242. Soukh-oos:
this name, according to M. Geoffroy de St. Hilaire, designated a
distinct species of crocodile. The Egyptians detested the croco­
dile Temsah, a voracious animal, which caused them to suffer
frequent injuries; but they liked the soukh, a species of a less
size, rarely terrible to men, and which, showing itself on earth
before all the other crocodiles, at the swelling of the Nile,
seemed to announce and to bring the benevolent inundation,
of which it became the sacred symbol. Upon the banks of the
Ganges the Indians also distinguished two species of crocodiles,
one ferocious and carnivorous, the other perfectly innocent.
(jElian, De Nat. Anim., lib. xii., cap. xli.)
The reptile thus worshiped is supposed by M. Geoffroy de St
Hilaire not to have been the common crocodile, Crocodilus vul­
garis, the Temsah of the Egyptians, but the Monitor, or Suchus;
an opinion, however, which Cuvier combats, because he affirms
that the monitor is as ferocious as the common crocodile. In
ancient Egypt, the crocodile was one of the symbols of Typhon,
the evil deity ; and some of the bronzes bear the representation
of a man, supposed to be Horus (whose father, Isis, was slain by
Typhon), standing on a crocodile. The tame crocodiles, as
stated in a former note, were daily fed with roasted meat and
cakes, and had occasionally mulled wine poured down their
throats. Their ears were ornamented with rings of gold and
precious stones, and their forefeet adorned with bracelets. As
such was the treatment of the sacred crocodiles, there is no
difficulty in accounting for their docility. The most ferocious
animals will not attack their ordinary prey, when well fed. The
following account is given of a tame alligator, in a private letter,
quoted in a review of the Erpetologie Generale, and affords an ex­
cellent proof of the foregoing remark. The writer, having ridden
a considerable distance to a village about eight miles from Kur-
Digitized by Google
318 INFLUENCE OVER ANIMALS.
The agility of the movements of serpents; the
enormous strength of these reptiles; the difficulty
of distinguishing at the first glance those whose
bite is not venomous from those which are poison­
ous, is sufficient to explain the fear and horror
rachee, in Scinde, and feeling thirsty, went to a pool to procure
some water. “ When I got to the edge,” says he, “ the guide
who was with me pointed out something in the water, which I
had myself taken to be the stump of a tree; and although I had
my glasses on, I looked at it for some time before I found that I
was standing within three feet of an immense alligator. I then
perceived that the swamp was crowded with them, although
they were all lying in the mud so perfectly motionless that a
hundred people might have passed without observing them. The
guide laughed at the start I gave, and told me that they were
quite harmless, having been tamed by a saint, a man ox great
piety, whose tomb was to be seen on a hill close by; and that
they continued to obey the orders of a number of Fakeers, who
lived around the tomb. I proceeded to the village immediately,
and got some of the Fakeers to come down to the water with a
sheep. One of them then went close to the water with a long
stick, with which he struck the ground, and called to the alli­
gators, which immediately came crawling out of the water, great
and small together, and lay down oh the bank all around him.
The sheep was then killed and quartered; and while this was
going on, the reptiles continued crawling until they had made a
complete ring around us. The Fakeer kept walking about with­
in the circle, and if any one attempted to encroach, he rapped it
unmercifully on the snout with his stick, and drove it backward.
Not one of them attempted to touch him, although they showed
rows of teeth that seemed able to snap him in two at a bite. The
quarters of the sheep were then thrown to them, and the scene
that followed was so indescribable that I shall not attempt it;
but I think if you will turn to Milton, and read his account of the
transformation of Satan and his crew in Pandemonium, you may
form some faint idea ‘how dreadful was the din.’ In what
manner these monsters were first tamed I can not say. The
natives, of course, ascribe it to the piety of the saint, who is
called Miegger Pier, or Saint Alligator.”*
* Edinburgh Review, vol. Ixxx., p. 428.
Another reason might be assigned for the impunity with which
persons have gone among crocodiles, namely, that in some
place, as in the Nicobar Islands, there may be two species of
crocodiles—one small, fierce, and rapacious, the other large, less
fierce, and preying only upon carrion. This anecdote is, at all
events, quite sufficient to give authenticity to the stories of the
ancients respecting the crocodile. The Egyptian god, Souk, is
represented with the head of a crocodile.—Ed.
Digitized by UooQle
INFLUENCE OVER ANIMALS. 319
which serpents inspire, and the idea of supernat­
ural power attached to the art of handling them,
and of rendering them powerless. The biogra­
pher of Pythagoras, anxious to exalt his hero, calls
our admiration to the philosopher exercising a
power equal to that of Orpheus upon animals, and
handling with impunity serpents, dangerous to all
but himself.
* Jugglers, who exhibit in a similar
manner in public, profit by their facility in inspiring
fear, to extort money from the curious; and this
singular kind of pilfering has been repeated often
enough to draw down the animadversion of the
law upon its authors.!
There were always supposed to be a great num­
ber of serpents, the bite of which was not of a
venomous character, which easily admitted of their
being tamed. Such were doubtless those immense
but harmless serpents that were seen in many an­
cient temples the serpent, fifteen feet long, which
Ajax, son of Oileous, had tamed,§ and which fol­
lowed him like a faithful dog; and the enormous
reptile that was taken alive by the soldiers of Ptol­
emy Auletes,|| and which became as gentle as a
domestic animal. Tamed adders, perfectly docile
and affectionate, have been seen a thousand times
in Europe. In Timauni a serpent was shown to
the traveler Laing,fl which, at the order of the
musician, curved itself, rolled itself, and jumped,
as obediently and adroitly as the best disciplined
• lamblich. in Vit. Pythag., cap. xiv. et cap. xviii.
t “ In circulatores qui serpentes circumferunt et proponunt, si
cui, ob eorum metum, damnum datum eat, pro modo admissi
actio dabitur.”—Digest., lib. xlvii., tit. xi., § xi.
t jfilian, De Nat. Anim., lib. xiii., cap. xxxix.; xv, 321; xvi.,
39.
$ Philostrat. in Heroic.
|| Tzetzes, Chiliad., iii., n. 113.
Laing, Travels among ths Timaunies, the Kouranko, <f-c., pp.
244-246.
Digitized by UooQle
320 INFLUENCE OVER ANIMALS.
animals.
* Among the negroes of Dutch Guinea,
there are women who have the occupation of di-
vineresses, one of the proofs of whose supernatural
art is to tame the serpent, papa or ammodite, a
reptile of large dimensions, but which is never
dangerous, and to make it descend from a tree
only by speaking to it.+
Even the asp,J so justly dreaded, may be tamed
♦ I shall Quote the passage, to show the extraordinary influ­
ence which the Soulimana jugglers possess over serpents. “ A
droll-looking man,” says M. Laing, “ who played upon a sort of
guitar, the body of which was a calabash, commenced a sweet
air, and accompanied it with a tolerably fair voice. He boasted
that by his music he could cure diseases; that he could make
wild beasts tame, and snakes dance: if the white man did not
believe him, he would give him a specimen. With that, changing
to a more lively air, a large snake crept from beneath a part of
the stockading in the yard, and was crossing it rapidly, when he
again changed his tune, and playing a little slower, sung, ‘ Snake,
you must stop : you run too fast; stop at my command, and give
the white man service.’ The snake was obedient, and the musi­
cian continued, ‘ Snake, you must dance, for a white man is come
toFalaba ; dance, snake, for this is indeed a happy day.’ The
snake twisted itself about, raised its head, curled, leaped, and
performed various feats, of which I should not have supposed a
snake capable.”—L. c., p. 245.
In India the snake-charmers are equally adroit, and play many
tricks to excite the astonishment of Europeans who have shortly
arrived in the country. They also pretend to catch snakes, when
these reptiles get into houses. Those who practice this employ­
ment are called Sampoori; but they are great rogues, and gener­
ally take the snake, which they pretend to catch, with them.
Among other tricks, they assert that they take a stone from the
head of the snake, which has the virtues of an amulet. Major
Moor gives an amusing anecdote of his having detected this im­
position of extracting a snake-stone, in a Sampoori, whom he
employed to catch a snake in his fowl-house. “At the proper
moment,” says he, “ I seized the snakeless hand of the operator,
and there found, to his dismay, perdue in his well closed palm, the
intended-to-be-extracted stone. The fellow made a free and good-
humored confession of the trick.”—Ed.
+ Stedmann, Voyage in Surinam, vol. iii., pp. 64, 65.
i The asp, vipera haje, puff adder! is a snake of a green color,
about five feet in length, marked with brown bands; and which,
like the Cobra de Capella, has the power of swelling its neck ex­
ternally when it raises itself to strike its victim. Its venom is
most deadly, and is supposed to be that which Cleopatra employ-
Digitized by C.ooQle
INFLUENCE OVER ANIMALS. 321
without trouble. In Hindostan, sugar and milk,
which are given to it every day, suffice to work
this miracle. The reptile returns regularly at the
accustomed hour to take the repast which awaits
him, and never injures any one.
* Was it not
by an analogous artifice that the Egyptian priests
caused inoffensive asps to come forth from the
altar of Isis 1 And by which, so often in Greece
and in Italy, sacred serpents came to devour the
presents disposed upon the altars of the gods, thus
giving to the people a certain presage of happiness
and of victory ?
There are few stories more common than those
of genii being metamorphosed into the form of
serpents, and placed to guard subterranean treas­
ures. This belief is still popular in Brittany, in
the district of Lesneven.t It is general in Hin­
dostan : and there, at least, it is supposed it is not
ed to terminate her existence after the loss of her imperial para­
mour. The reptile, although most venomous, yet possesses re­
markable social qualities, never living alone, and revenging the
death of its fellow with the utmost fury. The jugglers of Grand
Cairo possess the art of taming it, and of depriving it of its poison­
bag. They have also the art of throwing it into a state of cata­
lepsy, by pressing the nape of the neck with their fingers, so that
it becomes stiffand immovable like a rod. The rods of the Egyp­
tian priests who contended with Aaron were probably real cata­
leptic asps, which regained animation when thrown upon the
ground. The asp erects itself when approached—a circumstance
which led the ancient Egyptians to assume that it thus guarded
the place it inhabited; and to venerate it as the emblem of the
divinity protecting the world. It is found sculptured on their
temples, erect, on each side of a globe.
The poison of the asp is secreted at some distance from the
fangs, and is conveyed to them by a tube which terminates in the
pnlp cavity, at the base of the fang, where a groove commences,
superficial at first, but gradually sinking into the substance of the
tooth, and terminating in a longitudinal fissure near its apex.
Through this groove the poison is ejected and infused into the
wound.—En.
* Paulin de St. Barth^lemi, Voyages auz fndes Orientates, vol. i.,
p. 477.
t Cambry, Voyage dans te departement du Finistere, vol. ii.. p. 25.
Digitized by CrOOQle
322 INFLUENCE OVER ANIMALS.
always without foundation. Forbes, an English
observer, who is generally quoted with confidence
in his veracity, relates the following anecdote. In
a village of Hindostan, a vault, placed under a
tower, contained, it was said, a treasure guarded
by a genius, under the form of a serpent. Guided
even by the workmen who had built the vault,'
Forbes caused it to be opened : it was of consider­
able depth, and he discovered there an enormous
serpent, which he compared, by its size, to the
cable of a vessel. The reptile, unrolling itself
slowly, raised itself toward the opening made in
the upper part of the vault. The workmen imme­
diately threw into it some lighted hay, and the
serpent died from suffocation. Forbes found there
its carcass, but not the treasure, the proprietor
having probably carried it away.
* The reader
will observe, that the construction of the vault was
not ancient. The serpent that had been placed
there had already attained to a large size, and it
must have been well tamed and very docile, to
allow itself to be confined there: it also must have
known its master well, since the latter was able to
cany off his riches, without having any thing to
fear from the sentinel which watched over them ;
and whose life he should then have saved, by re­
storing it to liberty.
The most dangerous serpents, with the excep­
tion of those which are terrible from their strength,
cease to be hurtful from the time when they lose
their fangs, which are destined by nature to convey
the poison, with which they are armed, into the
wounds that they make. To make them bite sev­
eral times, a piece of rag or some stuff, such as felt,
is held out to them ; and thus the reservoirs of ven­
omous liquid are drained—a circumstance which is
* Oriental Fragments, p. 84.
Digitized by C.ooQle
INFLUENCE OVER ANIMALS. 323
often sufficient to prevent their bite, for one or
more days, from carrying with it any danger. In
the capitals of Europe, and in the savage interior
of Africa,
* one or other of these secrets is used by
those impostors who play with snakes before the
eyes of a frightened crowd.t Both will explain
the gentleness of the serpent, which, a hundred
* Description of the People of India, pp. 469-479.
♦ Voyages and Discoveries in Africa, <£c., by Oudney, Denham,
and Clapperton, vol. hi., pp. 39, 40.
t Our author labors to prove, that the serpents played with by
the Indian and Egyptian jugglers are either harmless serpents, or
those from which, as the Abb£ Dubois would lead us to believe,
the venom fangs have been extracted.
* But there can be no
doubt that the ancient Psylli had some method of fascinating all
kinds of serpents; and the art may be still known to their suc­
cessors in Egypt and Hindostan. Jn the Psalms (Iviii., vers. 4,5),
we find the words, “ Like the deaf adder that stoppeth her ear;
which will not hearken to the voice of the charmers, charming
never so wisely a proof that the art was formerly practiced^
The serpent usually exhibited by the Hindoo charmers is the
Hooded Serpent, Cobra de Capello (Naja lutescens of Laurenti),
one of the most venomous of tne tribe. Music, which seems to
be peculiarly delightful to that description of serpent, is the
power by which they appear to be fascinated. The reptile raises
itself from the ground, and keeps time, by the most graceful
movements and undulations of the head and body, to the notes of
the flute. When the music ceases, it sinks down, as if exhaust­
ed, in a state of almost insensibility ; when it is instantly trans­
ferred to the charmer’s basket. That such snakes are still poi­
sonous is verified by a fact, related in Forbes’ Oriental Memoirs
(vol. i., p. 44; voL ii., p. 387). On the music stopping too sud­
denly, or from some other cause, the serpent, which had been
dancing within a circle of country people, darted among the spec­
tators, and inflicted a wound in the throat of a young woman,
who died in agony in half-an-hour afterward.
The structure of the ear in serpents does not indicate the fac­
ulty of acute hearing; yet, when newly caught, these reptiles
seem delighted with music, and writhe themselves during its con­
tinuation into graceful attitudes. I am of opinion that, although
coated with scales, yet the sensibility of the serpent is great, and
the vibration of sound is felt over the whole body, and when the
notes are harmonious, the effect is soothing. The Hindoos,
from seeing the docile character of venomous serpents in the
temples, believe that the deity has condescended to adopt that
form.—Ed.
Digitized by Goo'
n
324 INFLUENCE OVER ANIMALS.
years ago, was seen by two French travelers,
* in
Upper Egypt; and which superstition represented,
by turns, as an angel, as one of the benevolent
genii, and as the demon who formerly strangled
the first six husbands of the wife of the young
Tobias.
* Oriental Fragments, p. 80.
Hindoo jugglers, says a traveler, allow them­
selves to be bitten by snakes,! and when the strength
of the poison causes the wounds to become extra­
ordinarily inflamed, they suddenly cure them with
oils and powders, which are then sold to the spec­
tators.}: The swelling is certainly only apparent;
the art of counteracting the effect of a poison which
has already entered the system, and is so much
advanced in its progress, is too wonderful to be
lightly believed. For fortifying themselves against
danger from the bites which they encounter, it is
sufficient for the jugglers to force the reptile, pre­
viously, to exhaust the reservoirs in which its venom
is inclosed. It can not be doubted but that they
make use of this secret; since Koempfer§ has seen
* Voyage du Sieur Paul Lucas en 1699, vol. L, pp. 72-78, &c.—
Voyage du Sieur Paul Lucas en 1715, vol. ii., pp. 348-354.—Voyage
fait en Egypte par le Sieur Granger, pp. 88-92.
t Terry, East India, sect. ix.
t The snake
*
stones, mentioned in a former note, are generally
employed by the Indian snake-charmers, to render the bites of the
snakes, which they pretend to be still venomous, innocuous. “ He
suffers himself,” says Major Moor, detailing an exhibition of this
kind, “ to be bitten by the seemingly enraged reptile, till he bleed.
He then, in haste, terror, and contortion, seeks a snake-stone,
which he is never without, and sticks it on the wound, to which
it adheres. In a minute or two, the venom is extracted, the bit­
ten part recovers, and the stone falls off, or is removed. If put
into a glass of water, it sinks and emits small bubbles every half­
score of seconds. This is the usual test of its genuineness; and
it is odd if no one will give a rupee, or half-a-rupee, for such a
curiosity.
* —Ed.
§ Koempfer, Amoen. esot., p. 565 et seq.—Lac6p£de, Hist. Nat.
des Reptiles, art. Du serpent d lunettes ou Nagd.
Digitized by GooqIc
k
INFLUENCE OVER ANIMALS. 325
it put in practice in the same country, by those
jugglers who teach the serpent Naja (Cobra de
Capello), the poison of which is so justly dreaded,
to dance.
But to suppose that the venomous bite of a rep­
tile is not dangerous to certain men, but proves
mortal to all others, is an assertion belonging pecu­
liarly to the fabulous; the numerous passages in
books of travels, in which the power of charming
serpents is mentioned, must be interpreted in an
allegorical sense. In China there are men who
appear to be as bold as the ancient Psylli, and who
expose themselves to bites apparently dangerous,
but who can only be looked upon as clever impos­
tors. In vain do the Latin and Greek writers as­
sure us, that the gift of charming venomous reptiles
was hereditary in certain families, from time im­
memorial; that, on the shores of the Hellespont,
these families were sufficiently numerous to form
a tribe; that in Africa the same gift was enjoy­
ed by the Psylli; that the Marses in Italy and
the Ophiogenes in Cyprus possessed it, for, on
examining their origin, we find that the former
pretended to derive it from the enchantress Circe,
the latter, from a virgin of Phrygia united to a
sacred dragon.
* They forget that, in Italy, even
at the commencement of the sixteenth century,
men, claiming to be descended from the family of
St. Paul, braved, like the Marses, the bites of ser­
pents.!
* Plin., Hist. Nat,, lib. viL, cap. ii.—A. Gell., Noct. Attic., lib.
ix., cap. xii.; lib. xvi., cap. ii.—Strabo, lib. xiii.—jElian, De Nat.
Animal., lib., i., cap. Ivii.; lib. xii., cap. xxxix.
t Ascensius, Note in A. Gell., Noct. Attic., lib. xvi., cap. ii.
To repel a statement which seemed too wonder­
ful, the evidence ofGalen may be brought forward :
he says that in his time the Marses possessed no
Digitized by GoooJ
326 INFLUENCE OVER ANIMALS.
specific secret, and that their art was confined to
deceiving the people by address and'fraud ;• and
that it may be concluded that fraud and address
had, alike, been put into practice at all times.
The assertion of the physician of Pergamus is
not destroyed by a well known anecdote in the
history of Heliogabalus.t This emperor made
the Marsian priests collect serpents, and caused
them to be thrown into the circus at the mo­
ment when the people came there in crowds.
Many of them perished from the bites of these
serpents, which the Marses had braved with im­
punity.
Travelers worthy of credence have at length
arisen, and have said to us, “ I have seen.” Thus
says Bruce, Hasselquist, and Lempriere and they
have been convinced by their own eyes, that in
Morocco, in Egypt, in Arabia, and above all, in
Sennaar, there are many men who have such a
peculiarity of habit that they disregard the bites
of vipers and the sting of scorpions ; and both not
only handle these reptiles with impunity, but also
throw them into a state of stupor. To complete
their resemblance to the ancient Psylli, they as­
sured Bruce they were born with this marvelous
faculty. Others pretended to owe it to a myste­
rious arrangement of letters, or to some magic
words which resembled the ancient songs used for
charming serpents; and furnished a new example
of the habit, so prejudicial to science, of concealing
a physical secret, in attributing its effects to insig­
nificant and superstitious practices.
♦ ./Elian, Libr. de Theriac. ad Pison.
t Lamprid. in Ant. Heliogabal.
t Bruce, Travels to discover the sources of the Nile, vol. X., pp.
402, 403, 412-447. Hasselquist, Voyage. in the Levant, vol. i., pp.
92, 93, 96-100.—Lempriere, Voyage dans I'empire de Moroc et U
royaume de Fez, en 1790, 1791, pp. 42, 43.
INFLUENCE OVER ANIMALS. 327
Doubts upon this subject, if they could have ex­
isted, were removed forever at the time of the
brilliant expedition of the French into Egypt; and
the following relation is attested by thousands of
eye-witnesses. The Psylli who pretended, as
Bruce had related, to possess the faculty which
distinguished them, went from house to house to
offer their assistance to destroy serpents of every
kind, which were almost common there. If we
may believe them, a wonderful instinct drew them
at first toward the place in which the serpents were
hidden. Furious, howling, and foaming at the
mouth, they hurried there, and then, rushing upon
the reptiles, they seized and tore them asunder
with their nails and teeth.
Let us place to the account of charlatanism, the
howlings, the foaming, and the fury, in fact, all that
recalls the painful efforts which the Marses feign­
ed, in repeating the songs proper for destroying
the reptiles ;
* still the instinct which warned the
Psylli of the presence of the serpents has in it
something more real.
* Venas intendens omnes,—Lucil., Satyr,, lib. xx.
f Thibaut de Chanvallon, Voyage cl la Martinique.
t It is extraordinary to find an individual so little credulous as
In the Antilles, the negroes discover by its odor
a serpent which they do not see; a power in fact
owing solely to the nauseous odor which the ser­
pent exhales.f In Egypt, the same tact, formerly
possessed, is still enjoyed by men, brought up to
it from their infancy, and born, as with an assumed
hereditary gift, to hunt serpents, and to discover
them even at a distance too great for the effluvia
to be perceptible to the dull organs of a Euro­
pean. The principal fact above all others, the
faculty of rendering dangerous animals powerless
merely by touching them, remains well verified
Digitized by Googl
328 INFLUENCE OVER ANIMALS.
and we shall, perhaps, never understand better
the nature of this secret, celebrated in antiquity
and preserved to our time by the most ignorant of
men.
Some reflections on this subject will not, perhaps,
seem here out of place.
The senses of animals resemble our own, but
the resemblance is not complete : we can not per­
ceive some substances which affect them strongly;
and they do not seem differently affected by those
which appear to us the most dissimilar. This is
true of die sense of smelling.
* The dog, who pos­
sesses so exquisite a nose, so susceptible of delicate
impressions, of which nothing can give us a cor­
rect idea—the dog seems to make no difference in
the pleasure derived from a sweet perfume and a
fetid or an infectious odor. So marked a differ­
ence existing between our sensations and those ex­
perienced by animals, explains why they may be
acted upon by causes which are inadequate to af­
fect the senses of men. At Rome, dogs never en­
tered the temple of Hercules; the smell of the
club which the god bad formerly left at the door
was sufficient, after fourteen centuries, to banish
our author, respecting circumstances of a marvelous character,
believing the possibility of rendering poisonous serpents power­
less merely by touching them. If we can believe the existence
of such a power, upon what ground can we venture to deny the
reality of any apparent miracle, which we may see, or read of,
however contrary to the course of nature ! The fangs of serpents
are equally defensive and offensive weapons ; and as the instinct
of the reptile leads him to regard man as his enemy, it is not
likely that he would submit to his control, unless as the result of
a long course of training, which is the most probable explanation
of the phenomenon mentioned in the text. I can not credit the
possibility of such an effect being produced upon newly caught
serpents, utter strangers to the juggler; and, therefore, the per­
formance must be placed among the numerous other feats which
attest the high degree of perfection in the deceptive art, to which
these serpent-tamers have attained.—Ed.
* wElian. De Nat. Anim., lib. vi., cap. xxxiii.
Digitized by C.ooQle
INFLUENCE OVER SERPENTS. 329
them from it.
* The priests, no doubt, were care­
ful to renew, from time to time, the odor which
perpetuated the miracle, and which was not appa­
rent to the senses oFmen. Albertus Magnust pos­
sessed a stone which attracted serpents. If any
part of this tale could be true, we should attribute
it to an analogous cause: reptiles, like many in­
sects, are susceptible of being much affected by
odorous emanations.
Galen had, I think, been deceived by a false dec­
laration which the Marses and the Psylli had made
for the better concealment of their secret, when he
says that they owed their power over serpents to
the habit of nourishing themselves with the flesh
of vipers and venomous reptiles.^ Pliny, jElian,
Silius Italicus, have more correctly ascribed it to
the employment of an odorous substance which
stupafiQd the serpents, and with which it appeared
their enemies rubbed their bodies.§ This proceed-
« Solinus, cap. ii.
t Albertus the Great, or Magnus, the word Groat, his family
name, the Dutch for Great, being thus Latinized, was a Domini­
can, born in Suabia; and who, after he had been made Bishop of
Ratisbon, abdicated, and returned as a plain monk to his convent
at Cologne, where he died in 1282, in nis seventy-seventh year.
His Historia Animalium is the most remarkable of his works.
Numerous prodigies have been attributed by the multitude to him;
among others, that he made an earthen ware head that could an«
swer questions. Thomas Aquinas is said to have been so terri­
fied when he saw it, that he broke it in pieces; upon which the
mechanist exclaimed, “ There goes the labor of tnirty years !”*
If the apparent speaking of this head, and similar speaking-heads,
were not the result of ventriloquism, no idea can be formed of the
means employed to effect the prodigy.—Ed.
t Galen, De Art. Curator., lib. ii., cap. xi.
$ “ Ut odore sopirent eos (serpentes),” Plin., Hist. Nat., lib.vii.,
cap. ii. The same author observes, that the Ophiogenes of the
isle of Cyprus, above all, exhaled, in spring, a strong, poisonous
odor.—lib. xxviii., cap. iii.—jElian, De Nat. Anim., lib. xii., cap
xxxix.; lib. xvi., cap. xxvii.
♦ Brewster on Natural Magic, p. 159.
Digitized by Google
33 » INFLUENCE OVER SERPENTS.
ing inspired the Psylli with so much confidence,
that they did not hesitate to expose new-born in­
fants to the bites of serpents, under the plea of as­
suring themselves of their legitimacy ;• or, rather,
in accordance with their suspicions, to destroy the
presumed fruits of the adulterer. Bruce assured
us that the secret of the Egyptians and Arabs, in
bearing the bites of serpents with impunity, con­
sists in bathing themselves in a decoction of herbs
and roots, the nature of which they carefully con­
ceal. Forskhal informs us, that the Egyptians
charm serpents with a bitter-wort, an arlstolochia,
with the species of which he was not acquainted.
According to Jacquin, the arlstolochia anguici.da is
the plant which is employed by the indigenous
tribes of America! for the same purpose.
At this day, when the traces of the emigrations
which had conducted people from the plains of
Tartary into equinoctial America have been dis­
covered, it is not surprising to find this secret prop­
agated in the New World. After being convinced
of its great antiquity, comparing the narrations of
. . . . Et somnum tacto misisse Chelydro.
Sil. Italic., lib. v., v. 354.
..............................Et Chelydris cantare soporem,
Vipereum quo herbis hebetare et carmine dentem.
Ibid., lib. viii., vers. 496, 497.
An impostor caused himself to be bitten in public by asps:
jElian thinks that he used a beverage prepared to preserve him­
self from the consequences of the bite. But this could only be
an artifice destined to hide the true secret.
* The Psylli never divulged to their wives the secret. “ Mu­
ller enim. Psylla esse non potest.” (Xiphilin., in August.—^Elian,
De Nat. Arum., lib. i., cap. Ivii.) Their modem disciples have
not imitated their reserve. Hasselquist (vol. i., pp. 96, 97) men­
tions a woman who, under his eyes, rendered serpents completely
powerless.
t Hasselquist, Voyage dans le Levant, vol. i., p. 100. This
species of aristolochia is a twining plant, with oblong, sharp-
pointed, cordate leaves, with solitary heart-shaped stipules sur­
rounding the stem, and an erect, dilated corolla, with a lanceo-
Digitized by Google
INFLUENCE OVER SERPENTS. 331
modern travelers with those of ancient historians,
it is much more astonishing that we never redis­
covered it in Hindostan. It existed there, in fact,
from time immemorial.
By the side of every secret of this kind, we are
almost certain to find some custom which has so
far rendered the discovery of it necessary, and to
which, on the contrary, it owes, in part, its birth.
In Hindostan, in order to ascertain the truth of an
accusation, “ they throw a hooded serpent, called
naga
* into a deep pot of earth, into which they
let fall a ring, a seal, or a piece of money, which
the accused is obliged to take up with his hand.
If the serpent bite him, he is declared guilty; and,
late, somewhat truncated lip. It is a native of Mexico, where
the juice of the root of the plant, mixed with saliva, and called
Gti-Gtii, is poured into the wound made by the bite of a serpent;
and, after being left undisturbed for some time, insures the safety
of the bitten person. Such is the description of its use and its
effects by Jacquin.—Ed.
* The naia rnpudiana, the Cobra de Capello, or hooded serpent
of the Asiatic Portuguese. It is characterized by the expansive
neck, which covers the head like a hood; and, when thus dilated,
displays upon its upper part two oval disks, united by an arch,
which produce the resemblance of a pair of old-fashioned spec
*
taeles laid upon a beautifully ribbed and dotted ground. Its
length is from six to fifteen feet, and its general color brown. It
is the most venomous of the Indian serpents, and its bite is
mortal; but, nevertheless, it is rendered docile by music, by
being pampered with milk and sugar, and by kind treatment. It
is an object of worship in some of the Hindoo temples, and is
stated by the priests to be the form which the deity occasionally
assumes. Wnen enraged, and about to strike, it raises its head
and part of its body, and dilates the hood, while the rest of the
body is coiled up on the ground to give force to the spring. Dr.
John Davy, in his Account of Ceylon, mentions having seen a hen
bitten by one of them : it kept its hold for two or three minutes,
and was then shaken off by Dr. Davy. “ The hen, which at first
seemed to be little affected, died eight hours after she was
bittenbut so long a time seldom elapses between the bite and
the death of the animal which is struck. The poison, when
recent, is colorless, limpid, and in consistence resembles a solu­
tion of gum-arabic in water; it is acrid, and loses much of its
virulence after being kept.—Ed.
Digitized by Google
332 INFLUENCE OVER SERPENTS.
on the contrary, if not bitten, innocent.”* It was
thus in Egypt that the sacred asps, the intelligent
ministers of the vengeance of Isis, gave deafh to
evil, and respected good men.t
* Asiatic Researches, vol. i., p. 473. We find that the greatest
part of the Hindoo ordeals are equally used in Pegu, among the
Burmese.
f jElian, De Nat. Animal., lib. x., cap. xxxi.
END OF VOLUME I.
Digitized by Google
THE OCCULT SCIENCES.
THE
PHILOSOPHY OF MAGIC/
PRODIGIES, AND APPARENT MIRACLES.
FROM THE FRENCH OF
EUSEBE SALVERTE.-
WITH NOTES ILLUSTRATIVE, EXPLANATORY,
AND CRITICAL,
BY ANTHONY TODD THOMSON, M.D., F.L.S., &c.
“ Non igitur oportet nos magicis illusionibus uti, cum potestas philoso­
phies doceat operari quod sufficit.”—Rog. Bacon, De seer. Oper. Art. et
Nat., c. v.
IN TWO VOLUMES.
VOL. II.
>-
YpRK: „
HARPER A B R CTT.II IS jl S, PlfRL.T S KiE RS,
8 2 QLI J F 4>rRHE T,j * •
o' * -1
Digitized by C>ooQle
THENEWVJj K
PUBLIC LIBRARY
5lUS^2
ASTOR. LENOX AND
TILDEN FOUNDATIONS.
R 1910 L
ized by ViOOQle
CONTENTS
or
THE SECOND VOLUME.
CHAPTER I.
Preparations of Drugs and Beverages, some Soporific, others for
producingtemporary Imbecility.—Circe.—Nepenthes.—Delight­
ful Illusions; fearful Illusions ; involuntary Revelations.—In­
vincible Courage, produced by Meats and Potions.—The Old
Man of the Mountain deceived his Disciples by Illusions: he
probably fortified them against Torture by stupefying Drugs.—
The Use of them becomes habitual, and conduces to bodily In­
sensibility and Imbecility . . . . . Page 7-35
CHAPTER II.
Effect of Perfumes on the Moral Nature of Man.—Action of Lini­
ments ; the Magic Ointment frequently operated by occasion­
ing Dreams, which the Predisposition to Credulity converted
into Realities.—Such Dreams may explain the whole History
of Sorcery.—The principal Causes which multiplied the Num­
ber of Sorcerers were the Employment of Mysterious Secrets.
—The Crimes which these pretended Mysteries served to con­
ceal ; and the rigorous Laws absurdly directed against the
Crime of Sorcery............................................................... 35-62
CHAPTER III.
Influence of the Imagination,, seconded by physical Accessories,
in producing an habitual'. Belief', in-marvelous Narrations, by
Music, by the Habit of exalting the -Moral- Faculties, by un­
founded Terror, and by Presentiments.—Sympathetic Emotions
increase the Effects of the Jnfc-.'giwrtion.—Cuius pionuoed by
the Imagination.—Flights of the linaghiatimneffected by Dis­
eases, Fastings, Watchings, and ■Mortifications.—Moral and
physical Remedies successfully opposed to these Flights of the
Imagination . . . • • 62-89
Digitized by C>ooQle
IV CONTENTS.
CHAPTER IV.
Medicine formed a Part of the Occult Science: it was not long
exercised by the Priests; Diseases were supposed to be sent
by Malevolent Genii, or the irritated Gods; the Cures were
considered Miracles, or Works of Magic.—Credulity and the
Spirit of Mystery attributed marvelous Properties to Inan­
imate Substances; and Charlatanism assisted this Species of
Deception.—Counterfeit Cures.—Extraordinary Abstinences.—
Nutritious Substances taken in an almost imperceptible Form.
—Apparent Resurrections....................................Page 89-113
CHAPTER V.
Poisonous Substances.—Poisons, the Effect of which can be
graduated.—Miraculous Deaths.—Poisons employed in Ordeals.
—Diseases asserted to be caused by Divine Vengeance.—Dis­
eases foretold ........................................................... 113-128
CHAPTER VI.
Sterility of the Soil.—The Belief in the Means which the Thau-
maturgists were supposed to possess for causing Sterility arose
particularly from the Language of Emblems.—Sterility produced
naturally.—Cultures which injure one another.—Substances
which are prejudicial to Vegetation.—The Atmosphere render­
ed Pestilential.—Deleterious Powder and Nitrate of Arsenic
emoloyed as offensive Weapons.—Earthquakes and Rumblings
of the Earth foreseen and predicted .... 128-140
CHAPTER VII.
Meteorology.—The Art offoreseeing Rain, Storms, and the Direc­
tion of the Winds ; this is converted, in the Minds of the Vul­
gar, into the Power of granting or refusing Rain and favorable
Winds.—Magical Ceremonies for conjuring a Hail-storm
140-150
. .. CHARTE-jV VIII.
The Art ot jrawing Lightning .from the Clouds.—Medals and
Tradition? that indicatedhe Existence of that Art in Antiquity.
—Disguised jyider tbe»Najn(J of the Worship of Jupiter Elicius
and of Zeus v«taif»tfleA*it
* was known to Numa and many
others among.me A
*
licients#- K-
*
l'he Imitators of Thunder made
Use of it.—ij may Uc tra^&ftom frometheus; it explains the
Digitized by C>ooQle
CONTENTS. V
Fable of Salmonious; it was known to the Hebrews, and the
Construction of the Temple of Jerusalem is a Proof of this.—
Zoroaster made Use of it to light the Sacred Fire, and oper­
ate in the Initiation of his Followers: his Experiments and
Miracles.—If the Chaldeans possessed the Secret, it was after­
ward lost among them.—There existed some Traces of it in
India in Ctesias’s time.—Wonders resembling those performed
through this Art, which, however, may be otherwise explained
Page 150-177
CHAPTER IX.
Phosphorescent Substances.—Sudden Appearance of Flames.—
Heat developed by the Slackening of Lime.—Substances which
are kindled by Contact with Air and Water.—Pyrophorus,
Phosphorus, Naphtha, and Alcoholic Liquids employed indiffer­
ent apparent Miracles.—The Blood of Nessus was a Phosphu-
ret of Sulphur; and also the Poison that Medea employed
against Creusa.—Greek Fire. — This Fire rediscovered after
many Attempts.—In Persia and Hindostan an unextinguishable
Fire was used.............................................................. 177-197
CHAPTER X.
Compositions similar to Gunpowder.—Mines worked by it under
Herod; by the Christian Priests under the Emperor Julian at
Jerusalem ; in Syria under the Caliph Motassem ; and by the
Priests of Delphi, in order to repulse the Persians and Gauls.—
Antiquity of the Invention of Gunpowder; its probable Origin
in Hindostan ; it has been known from Time immemorial in
China.—Tartar Army repelled by Artillery.—Priests of India em­
ployed the same Means to hurl Thunder upon their Enemies.—
The Thunder of Jupiter compared to our Firearms.—Many as­
sumed Miracles explained by the Use of these Arms.—Gunpow­
der was known in the latter Empire, probably until the Twelfth
Century ......................................................197-211
CHAPTER XI.
The Thaumaturgists might have worked pretended Miracles with
the Air-gun, the Power of Steam, and the Magnet.—The Com­
pass was probably known to the Phocians, as well as the Phoe­
nician Navigators.—The Finns have a Compass of their own ;
and in China the Compass had been used since the Foundation
of the Empire.—Other Means of working pretended Miracles.—
Galvanic Phenomena.—Action of Vinegar upon Lime.—Amuse­
ments of Physics.—Lachryma Batavica, tec. . . 211-228
Digitized by C>ooQle
VI CONTENTS.
CHAPTER XII.
Conclusion.—Principles followed in the Course of the Discussion.
—Reply to the Objection that the scientific Acquirements of the
Ancients are lost.—Democritus alone, among them, occupied
himself with Observations on Experimental Philosophy.—This
Philosopher perceived, in the Operations of Magic, the scientific
Application of the Laws ofNature.—Utility of studying the ap­
parent Miracles of the Ancients in this Point of View.—The
Thaumaturgists did not connect together their learned Concep­
tions by any Theory, which is a proof that they had received
them from a prior Period.—The first Thaumaturgists can not be
accused of Imposition ; but it would be dangerous, in this day,
to attempt to subjugate a People by apparent Miracles.—Volun­
tary Obedience to the Laws is a certain Consequence of the
Happiness which just Legislation procures to Men 228-235
Digitized by UooqIc
THE PHILOSOPHY
OF
MAGIC, PRODIGIES,
▲ND
APPARENT MIRACLES.
CHAPTER I.
Preparations of Drugs and Beverages, some Soporific, others for
producingtemporaryImbecility.—Circe.—Nepenthes.—Delight-
fa! Illusions; fearful Illusions ; involuntary Revelations.—In­
vincible Courage, produced by Meats and Potions.—The Old
Man of the Mountain deceived his Disciples by Illusions: he
probably fortified them against Torture by stupefying Drags.—
The Use of them becomes habitual, and conduces to bodily In­
sensibility and Imbecility.
Triumphant over the obstacles which debarred
him from attaining perfection, the initiated beheld
all the hidden treasures of science laid open to him.
It was no difficult task for him to unravel the secret
of the wonders that, in the scenes of his first recep­
tion, penetrated him with religious admiration; but
destined, thenceforth, to lay open to the profane
the path of light, it was time he should learn to
what operations he himself had been submitted;
how his whole moral being had been subjected to
their influences, and how he must employ the same
means that had been used in his initiation, in order
to obtain dominion over the minds of those who
might aim at attaining to the same point at which
he had arrived, and by what means he should dis­
play himself all-powerful, by his works, before
Digitized by UooqIc
8 PREPARATION OF
those who were not permitted to participate in the
divine dignity of the priesthood.
The aspirants to initiation, and those who came
to request prophetic dreams of the gods, were pre­
pared by a fast, more or less prolonged, after which
they partook of meals expressly prepared; and
also of mysterious drinks, such as the water of
Lethe
* and the water of Mnemosyne in the grotto
of Trophonius, or of the Ciceion in the mysteries of
the Eleusinia. Different drugs were easily mixed
up with the meats, or introduced into the drinks,
according to the state of mind or body into which
it was necessary to throw the recipient, and the
nature of the visions he was desirous of procuring.
* The river which yielded the water of Lethe, and the fountain
Mnemosyne, were both near the Trophonian grotto, which was
in Boeotia. The waters of both were drunk by whoever consulted
the oracle : the Lothian draught was intended to make him forget
all his former thoughts; the Mnemosynian, to strengthen his
memory, that he might remember the visions which he was about
to see in the grotto. The latter seemed essential, as the consulter
was obliged, after emerging from the grotto and recovering from
his alarm, to write down his vision on a small tablet which was
preserved in the temple.—Ed.
f The Markesians were a sect named from their chief, the
heresiarch Mark, who was guilty of so many superstitions and
impostures. Among others, St. Irenaeus informs us, that in con­
secrating chalices filled with water and wine, according to the
Christian rite, he filled the chalices with a certain red liquor
which he called blood. He also permitted women to consecrate
the holy mysteries.—Butler, Lives of the Fathers, Martyrs,
vol. v., chap, xxviii
We know what accusations had been raised
against some of the early sects of Christianity—
charges which were unjustly reflected upon all
Christian assemblies. They would scarcely be con­
sidered as unfounded, had many heresiarchs adopt­
ed the criminal practices imputed by popular ru­
mor to the high-priests of the Markesians.f It is
said that in their religious ceremonies aphrodisiac
beverages were administered to women. Without
Digitized by UooqIc
ASPIRANTS TO INITIATION. 9
judgingin this particular case, we believe that pow­
erful aphrodisiacs
* were occasionally used in the
mysterious orgies of Polytheism; and it is only by
admitting such a supposition, that we can explain
the monstrous debaucheries to which the votaries
of Bacchus gave themselves up in the Bacchanalian
festivals, denounced and punished at Rome, in the
year 186 b.c. A scene in a romance by Petroniusf
shows that they were used much later in the noc­
turnal reunions where superstitious rites were em­
ployed as a veil and an excuse for the excesses of
libertinism. But such an expedient was extremely
limited in its power: it disordered the senses; yet
it did not act on the imagination, though it deliv­
ered up the physical man to the power of the guilty
Thaumaturgist; it did not destroy the moral fac­
ulty. The substances destined to produce, in se­
cret ceremonies, the most important effects, were
the simplest and most common opiates. We may
readily conceive of what service they were to the
Thaumaturgist; whether intended to close eyes too
observing, and too quick to scrutinize the causes
of the apparent miracles; or to produce the alter­
natives of an unconquerable sleep, and a sudden
awakening: effects well adapted to persuade the
man who experiences them, that a supernatural
power is sporting with his existence, and changing
at his pleasure every circumstance that troubles or
that amuses it. Their methods were various; a
collection that we possess, and from which we shall
* St. Epiphan., contr. Haereses, lib. i., tome iii.; contr. Marco-
sios, Haeres., 24.
t Arbiter Petronius is supposed to have been a fictitious name
bestowed upon the romance alluded to in the text; while others
assert that the romance was the production of Caius Petronius, a
favorite ofc Nero, and a minister to his vicious pleasures. The
work is a picture of the profligate manners of the period it de­
scribes, totally unfit for general perusal.—Ed.
Digitized by UooQle
10 PREPARATION OF
quote, furnishes us with two examples. In one
case we are informed that a young prince was sent
to sleep every evening by the juice of a plant, and
every morning recovered from his torpor by the
scent of a perfume.
* Again—a sponge, steeped
in vinegar and passed under the nose of Aben Has­
san, provoked sneezing and a slight vomiting, which
suddenly destroyed the effects of the soporific pow­
der which rendered him insensible. In another
instance, the same symptoms and results were pro­
duced, when a young princess, who had been sent
into a deep sleep by a narcotic, was exposed to
the open air.t
In a spot, far removed from the scenes of the
Thousand and one Nights, we find the employment
of a similar secret. Among the NadoessisJ in South
America,- there existed a religious society of men
devoted to the Great Spirit. Carver witnessed
the admission of a new member into it. The
priests threw into the mouth of the candidate some­
thing that resembled a bean : almost immediately
he fell down, immovable, insensible, and appa­
rently dead. They gave him violent blows on the
the back, but these did not restore sensibility, nor,
for some minutes, bring him as it were to life again.
When he did revive, he was agitated with convul­
sions, that did not cease until he had thrown up
what they had made him swallow.§
Plutarch has preserved to us a description of
the mysteries of Trophonius, related by a man who
* The Arabian Nights, 26th night, vol. i., p. 221.
t Ibid., 295th night, vol. iv., pp. 97-149.
t Carver, Travels in South America, pp. 200, 201.
$ It is probable that the seed employed was the fruit of a spe­
cies of strychnos, the effect of which is to produce paralysis,
with convulsions. That it did not cause death might depend on
the entire seed having been swallowed; its influence in that state
being considerably less than if it had been administered in pow­
der.—Ed.
Digitized by UooqIc
ASPIRANTS TO INITIATION. 11
had passed two nights and a day in the grotto.
*
They appear to be rather the dreams of a person
intoxicated by a powerful narcotic than the descrip­
tion of a real spectacle. Timarches, the name of
the initiate, experienced a violent headache when
the apparitions commenced—that is to say, when
the drugs began to affect his senses; and when the
apparitions vanished and he awoke from this de­
lirious slumber, the same pain was as keenly felt.
Timarches died three months after his visit to the
grotto; the priests, no doubt, having made use of
very powerful drugs. It is said that those who
had once consulted the oracle acquired a melan­
choly which lasted all their lives ;t the natural con­
sequence, no doubt, of the serious shock to their
health from the potions administered to them.
* Plutarch, De Doemonio Socratis.
t Suidas. . . . Clavier, Memoire sur les Oracles, #c., pp. 159,
160.
± Clavier, Memoirs sar les Oracles, <£c., pp. 158, 159.
9 Atropa belladonna, deadly nightshade, has fruit resembling a
black cherry, seated within a large, green, persistent flower-cup
or calyx. The fruit is of a deep-black purple color, and contains
The consulters of the oracle, were, I believe,
carried to the gate of the grotto, when their forced
sleep began to be dissipated. The visions that oc­
cupied this slumber most probaby formed (as has
been also suspected by Clavier)^ all the incidents
of the miraculous spectacle they believed to have
been exhibited by the gods. On awakening also,
after having been presented with a drink, probably
intended to restore entirely the use of their senses,
they were ordered to relate every thing they had
seen and heard; the priest requiring to know what
they had dreamed.
Powerful soporifics often possess the property
of deranging the intellect: the berries of the bel­
ladonna^ when eaten, produce furious madness,
Digitized by C>ooQle
12 PREPARATION OP
followed by a sleep that lasts twenty-four hours.
Still n)ore frequently than bodily sleep, the sleep
of the soul, temporary imbecility, delivers up man
to the power of those who could reduce him to
this humiliating state. The juice of the datura
*
seed is employed by the Portuguese women of
Goa: they mix it, says Linschott,! in the liquor
drank by their husbands, who fall, for twenty-four
hours at leaAt, into a stupor, accompanied by contin­
ued laughing; but so deep is the sleep, that nothing
passing before them affects them; and when they
recover their senses, they have no recollection of
what has taken place. The men, says Pyrard,}
make use of the same secret in order to submit to
their desires women who would consent by no
other means. Francis Martin,§ after having de-
many seeds, enveloped in a sweetish juice. Every part of the
plant is poisonous, and when eaten causes symptoms resembling
those of intoxication, with fits of laughter and violent gesticula­
tions, followed by dilatation of the pupils of the eyes, delirium
and death. Buchanan, the Scottish historian, states that the vic­
tory of Macbeth over the Danes was obtained chiefly by mixing
the juice of this plant with wine, which was sent as a donation
from the Scots to Sweno during a truce. He adds, “ Vis fructui,
radici, ae maxime semini somnifera, et quae in amentium, si lar-
gius sumantur, agat.”—Rerum Scot. Hist., lib. viii., $ vi.—Ed.
♦ Datura feros, in doses sufficiently large to affect the brain,
causes indistinctness of vision, with a disposition to restless
sleep, accompanied with delirium, in which the most ridiculous
actions and absurd positions are exhibited. All the daturas,
namely, fastuosa, mctel, tatula, and even stramonium, which is
employed as a medicine in this country, possess nearly similar
poisonous properties. The species metel and tatula are employed
in the East Indies to cause intoxication for licentious and crimi­
nal purposes.—Ed.
t Linschott, Narrative of a Voyage to the East Indies, with the
note
* of Paludanus, 3d edit., folio, pp. 63. 64, 111. The thorn­
apple, stramonium, a plant of the same family as the datura, pro­
duces similar effects ; it has sometimes been criminally employed
in Europe.
t Voyage of Francis Pyrard (2 vols. in 4to., Paris, 1679), tome
ii., pp. 68, 69.
$ Francis Martin, Description of the first Voyage made by the
French to the East Indies, pp. 163, 164.
Digitized by Google
ASPIRANTS TO INITIATION. 13
tailed all the injurious effects of the daturas, adds,
that the delirium may be arrested by placing the
feet of the patient in hot water; the remedy causes
vomiting, a circumstance which reminds us of the
manner in which the sleeper and the young prin­
cess in the Arabian Nights, and the initiated Na-
doessis, were delivered from their stupor.
A secret so effectual having fallen into the hands
of the ignorant, must, there is reason to believe,
have belonged to the Thaumaturgists, to whom it
was much more important. Among the aborigi­
nes of Virginia, the aspirant to the priesthood was
made to drink, during the course of his painful
initiation, a liquor
* which threw him into a state
of imbecility. If, as we may suppose, the object
of this practice was to render him docile, we may
believe also, that the custom did not commence in
tbe New World.! Magicians have, in all ages,
made use of similar, secrets.
* This liquor was procured by decoction from certain roots
called vissocan ; and the initiation was termed Husea nawar.
t In consulting most of the Grecian oracles, it was the custom
either for the officiating priest, or the consulting person, to drink
of some secret well, the water of which, most probably, contained
some narcotic infusion.—Ed.
J St. Augustin, Z/e civil. Dei, lib. xviii., cap. xvii. et xviii.
The Oriental tales frequently present to us sto­
ries of powerful magicians changing men into ani­
mals. Varro, quoted by St. Augustin,f relates
that the magicians of Italy, attracting near them
the unsuspecting traveler, administered to him, in
cheese, a drug which changed him into a beast of_
burden. They loaded him then with their bag­
gage, and at the end of the journey restored him
to his own form. Under these figurative expres­
sions, quoted from Varro, who probably quoted
from some prior work, we perceive that the trav­
eler, being intoxicated by the drug he had taken,
Digitized by CjOOQle
14 PREPARATION OF
blindly submitted himself to this singular degrada­
tion until the magician released him by giving him
an appropriate antidote. This tradition has, no
doubt, the same origin as that of Circe.
*
* This does not contradict the assertion of Solinus, that Circe
deceived the eyes by phantasmagoria! illusions. She might make
use of these to strengthen the established belief, that the drugs
which rendered men imbecile metamorphosed them into beasts.
Wearied by the amorous pursuit of Calchus,
King of the Daunians, Circe, if we may believe
Parthenius, invited him to a banquet, in all the
viands of which she had infused narcotic drugs.
Hardly had he eaten of them, when he fell into
such imbecility that Circe shut him up with the
swine. She afterward cured him, and restored
him to the Daunians, binding them, however, by a
vow, never to allow him to return to the island she
inhabited.
The cup ofCirce, says Homer, contained a poison
that transformed men into beasts; implying that,
when plunged by it into a state of stupid inebriety,
they believed themselves reduced to this shameful
degradation. This explanation, the only one ad­
missible, agrees with the relation of Parthenius.
In spite of the decision of some commentators, I
venture to affirm, that the poet did not intend this
narration as an allegorical lesson against voluptu­
ousness. Such an explanation would not accord
with the rest of the narrative, which terminates by
the wise Ulysses throwing himself into the arms
of the enchantress, who kept him there a whole
year. In many other passages also of his poem,
Homer has noticed purely physical facts. This is
so true that he mentions a natural preservative
against the effect of poison; a root which he de­
scribes with that minuteness, which, better than
any other poet, he knew how to unite with the
Digitized by Google
ASPIRANTS TO INITIATION. 15
brilliancy of poetry and the elegance of versifi­
cation.
Neither can we take, in a figurative sense, the
account given by the prince of poets respecting the
nepenthes which, bestowed by Helen on Telema-
chus, had the effect of suspending all feelings of
grief in the heart of the hero.
* Whatever might
have been the substance thus designated, it is cer­
tain that in Homer’s time there was a belief in the
existence of certain liquors, which were not less
stupefying than wine, and more efficacious than the
juice of the grape, in diffusing a delicious calm
over the mind. It is probable that Homer was ac­
quainted with these beverages, and those also that
Circe poured out for her guests, either from hav­
ing witnessed the exhibition of their effects, or
♦ Many opinions have been advanced respecting nepenthes;
but the most probable is, that which refers it to the hemp, cau-
nabis satira, from which the Hindoos make their bang, which is
narcotic, and produces delightful dreams.
The native plant, after it has flowered, is dried, and sold in the
bazars of Calcutta, for smoking, under the name of ganjah. The
large leaves and capsules, employed also for smoking, are called
bang, qt subjee. In both of these forms the smoking of the hemp
causes a species of intoxication of a most agreeable description,
and consequently the plant has acquired many epithets, which
may be translated “ assuager of sorrow,” “ increaser of pleas­
ure,” “ cementer of friendship,” “ laughter-mover,” and several
others of the same description.
In Nepaul, the resin only is used, under the name of churrus.
It is collected in some places by naked coolies walking through
the fields of hemp at the time when the plant exudes the resin,
which sticks to their skin, from which it is scraped oft
*
, and
kneaded into balls. In whatever manner it is collected, when it
is taken in doses of from a grain to two grains, it causes not only
the most delightful delirium, but, when repeated, it is followed
by catalepsy, or that condition of insensibility to all external im­
pressions which enables the body to be, ae it were, molded into
any position, like a Dutch jointed doll, in which the limbs remain
in the position in which they are placed, however contrary to the
natural influence of gravity; and this state will continue for
many hours. Such an instrument could not fail to prove a most
powerful agent in working apparent miracles in the hands of a
Thaumaturgist.—Ed.
Digitized by UooQle
16 PREPARATION OF
from tradition only; it always appears from his
narrative, that the ancients possessed the means of
making them. Wherefore should we, then, doubt
that such a secret was practiced in the temples,
whence the Greek poet derived the greatest part
of his knowledge, and where all the secrets of ex­
perimental philosophy were concentrated ?
Roman and Greek historians, and also modern
naturalists, in speaking of the properties of differ­
ent beverages, mention facts, which prove that
they were known to the ancient Thaumaturgists,
and that their powers have not been exaggerated.
A. Laguna, m his Commentary on Dioscorides,
mentions a species of solanum, the root of which,
taken in wine in a dose of a drachm weight, fills
the imagination with the most delicious illusions.
It is well known that opium, when administered
in certain quantities, produces sleep accompanied
with dreams so distinct and so agreeable that no
reality can equal the charm of them.
* In recapit-
* The magical influence of opium is well described, allowing
for some degree of exaggeration, in M. de Quincy’s extraordinary
work entitled The Confessions of an English Opium-Eater, to which
the Editor refers the reader. It is necessary to mention here only
a few facts descriptive of its influence on the inhabitants of Tur­
key and India.
In the Teriakana, or opium shops of Constantinople, and
throughout the Ottoman Empire, opium is usually mixed with
aromatics, and made into small cakes or lozenges, which are
stamped with the words “ Mash Allah,”—gift of God. After a
certain number of these have been swallowed, the first effect is a
degree of vivacity, which is even followed by delirium and hallu­
cinations, that vary in their character according to the natural
disposition of the individual. Is the opium-eater ambitious—he
beholds his sublime ideas realized, monarchs at his feet, and
slaves in chains following his triumphant chariot. Is he timid—
he feels himself either endowed with courage to which he is nat­
urally a stranger, or scenes of horror and dismay arise before him ;
the brain of the lover heaves with tenderness and rapture ; that
of the vindictive man swells with a ferocious delight, in feeling
his victim within his power, and his dagger already in his heart.
High-flown compliments are uttered, and the most ridiculous
actions performed, until sleep overpowers the senses, and leaves
Digitized by Google
ASPIRANTS TO INITIATION. 17
ulating all the speculations that have been made
respecting nepenthes, M. Virey supposes that he
has discovered it to be the hyosciamus datura of
Forskhal,
* which is still employed for the same
purpose in Egypt, and throughout the East. Many
other substances, capable of producing effects not
less marvelous, are mentioned by the same learned
person.
The potamantis, or thalassegle, says Pliny,f
grows on the banks of the Indus, and gelatophyllis
near to Bactria. The juices extracted from both
these plants produce delirium; the one causing
extraordinary visions, the other exciting continual
laughter. The one acts in a similar manner as the
beverage made with the hyosciamus of Forskhal;
the other like that expressed from the seeds of the
datura.f Other compositions concealed virtues still
more useful to the workers of miracles.
In Ethiopia, says Diodorus,§ was a square lake
of a hundred and sixty feet in circumference and
the person on awaking pensive, melancholy, and exhausted, until
recourse is again had to the regular daily supply.
In China, Siam, Borneo, and Sumatra, opium prepared in a
peculiar manner, and called chandoo, is both eaten and smoked
with nearly the same effects as the Turks experience ; but it ren­
ders the Malays almost frantic. When misfortune, therefore, or
a desire of desperate revenge influences a Malay, he makes him­
self delirious with opium ; then sallies forth armed, and running
forward, calling out “ Amok 1 amok!” he attempts to stab, indis­
criminately, every one he meets, until he himself is killed for the
preservation of others.
Such is the apparent supernatural felicity in some, and the
demoniacal frenzy and wretchedness in others, which the juice
of the poppy occasions; and there can be little doubt that it was
administered in some form to the aspirants during their initiation
into the mysteries of Polytheism.—Ed.
* Bulletin de Pharmacie, tome v. (Fevrier, 1813), pp. 49-60.
t Plin., Hist. Nat., lib. xxiv., cap. xvii.
t All the daturas are narcotic; but, from its native place, that
species mentioned by Pliny under the name gelatophyllis, vias
either daturaferox or datura metel.—Ed.
§ Diod. Sic., lib. ii., cap., xii., p. 12.
II. B
Digitized by kjOOQle
18 PREPARATION OF
forty feet broad, the waters of which were of the
color of vermillion, and exhaled an agreeable odor.
Those who drank these waters became so delirious,
that they confessed all their crimes, and even those
that time had permitted them to forget. Ctesias
*
mentions a fountain in India, the waters of which
became, when newly drawn, like cheese. This
coagulum, when dissolved in water, possessed vir­
tues like those mentioned by Diodorus. In the
first example the name of lake, particularly after
the dimensions specified, reminds us of the sea of
brass in the Temple of Jerusalem, which signified
only a large basin hollowed by the hand of man,t
such as is seen in every village of Hindostan.^
The word fountain as employed by Ctesias is
equally applied to the spring whence water flows,
and to a reservoir from which water is drawn.
When we reflect on the color and scent of the
water contained in the lake of Ethiopia, the prop­
erty of the Indian liquid of coagulating like cheese,
and call to remembrance also the fluid drugs em­
ployed by the magicians of Egypt—do they not all
announce pharmaceutical preparations 1
* Ctesias, Indic, apud. Photium. Biblioth., cod. Ixxii.
+ Lacus, in Latin, often takes the same signification. Pliny
applies this name to the basin of a fountain situated near Man-
durium, in the country of Salente. Vitruvius also applies it to
a basin for receiving lime.
J Some of these basins (tanks) are more than twenty-three
thousand two hundred and thirty-nine yards in circumference.
Haafner, Travels in the Western Peninsula of India, passim,
tome ii., p. 299.
£ Plin. Hist. Nat., lib. xxiv., cap. xvii.
Democritus had, before Ctesias and Diodorus,
mentioned plants that were endowed with such
virtues, that they caused the guilty to confess what
the most rigorous tortures would not have con­
strained them to avow. According to Pliny,§ there
is an Indian plant called achcemenis, the root of
Digitized by Google
ASPIRANTS TO INITIATION. 19
which, when made into lozenges and swallowed in
wine during the day, torments the guilty all night.
They suppose that they are pursued by the gods,
who appear to them under many forms ; and they
confess their crimes. The juice of the ophiusa, a
plant of Ethiopia, when taken internally, creates a
belief of being attacked by seipents: the terror
that it produces is so violent, that it leads to sui­
cide ; therefore the sacrilegious were compelled to
drink this liquor.
These wonders seem fabulous; they may be
repeated, however, every day under the eye of the
observer. The extract of belladonna is given to
children affected with the hooping-cough; if the
quantity exceeds ever so little the proper dose,
this remedy occasions the most painful dreams,
that fill the little patients with fear. In Kamts-
chatka they distill from a sweet herb
* “ a spirit
which easily intoxicates in a very violent manner.
Those who drink it, although even in very small
quantities, yet are tormented during the night with
fearful dreams; and the following day they are
afflicted by inquietudes and agitations as great as
if they had committed some crime.”
The muchamore is a fungus common to Kamts-
chatka and Siberia.! If it be eaten dry, or infused
in liquor and drunk, it sometimes produces death,
and always profound delirium, which is sometimes
gay, sometimes full of sorrow and fear. Those
who partake of it believe themselves subject to the
irresistible power of the spirit that inhabits the
poisonous fungus. In a fit of this stupor, a Cos­
sack imagined that the spirit ordered him to con-
♦ Pastinaca.—Gmelin.
t Krachenninikof, Description du Kamtschatka, 1st part, chap,
xiv. Beniowski relates that a Siberian Schaman whom he con­
sulted made use of an infusion of muchamore; the beverage first
plunged him into raving delirium, and then into deep sleep.
Digitized by C>ooQle
20 PREPARATION OF
fess his sins; he made, therefore, a general con­
fession before all his comrades.
*
Other beverages have a different influence, but
are equally capable of creating the marvelous.
The Caliph Abdallah, son of Zobeir, when be­
sieged in Mecca, decided on making a sally, and
thus finding either deliverance or death. He re­
ceived from the hands of his mother a beverage
containing musk,t to sustain his courage; and he
only yielded after prodigies of valor, which made
the victory, for a long time, uncertain.^ When
the Turks go to battle, a strong drink, named mas-
lack, mixed with opium, is distributed among the
soldiers, and excites and renders them almost
frantic.§ The intoxication produced by tbe much-
amove often brings on an increase of strength,
inspires fearless boldness, and excites a desire of
committing criminal actions, which are then re-
* The muchamore, the plant here referred to, is the fly amanita,
amanita muscaria, found in Kamtschatka, and also abundantly in
the Highlands of Scotland, and in woods in England, in the
autumn. It is a beautiful plant, rising like a mushroom, upon a
white stalk four to eight inches high, bulbous at the base: the
pileus, or top, is from three to six inches broad, of an orange­
brown color, with white warty spots regularly scattered over its
surface. It is the most splendid of the agaricoid tribe. “ In the
Highlands of Scotland,” says Dr. Grevillc (Scottish Cryptogamic
Flora, vol. i.t p. 54), “ it is impossible not to admire it, as seen in
long perspective between the trunks of the straight fir-trees;
and should a sunbeam penetrate through the dark and dense
foliage, and rest on its vivid surface, an effect is produced by
this chief of a humble race which might lower the pride of many
a patrician vegetable.” It is always deleterious, and often fatal
when eaten. In Kamtschatka its juice, mixed with that of the
great bilberry, or the runners of the willow-herb, is drunk to cause
intoxication. It acts most powerfully when dried, and swallowed
after mastication : it then causes delirium, and occasionally con­
vulsions.—Ed.
f Musk is a powerful stimulant; it raises the pulse without
elevating the heat of the body; and increases, in a remarkable
degree, the energy of the brain and nerves.—Ed.
f Hegira, 73; Ockley, Histoire des Sarrasins, tome ii., pp. 4, 5.
§ Considerations sur la Guerre presente entre les Russes et' les
Tuns, 1769, p. 173.
Digitized by Google
ASPIRANTS TO INITIATION, 21
garded as imperiously inspired by the Spirit of
the muchamore. The savage inhabitant of Kamts-
chatka and the fierce Cossacks have recourse to
this intoxication to dissipate their fears when they
project assassinations.
*
The extract of hemp, mixed with opium, has,
even in the eighteenth century, been used in the
armies of the Hindoo princes, by the Ammoqui,
fanatic warriors, whom it makes fiercely delirious.
They dart off, striking without distinction every
thing they meet before them, until, overwhelmed
with blows, they fall on the bodies of their victims.!
Neither fear nor humanity arrests their course of
crime. Those fanatics, also, who have been named
Assassins, were intoxicated by a preparation of
hemp, called hashiche, given to them by the Old
Man of the Mountain.^
All the historians of the Crusades have spoken
of the enchanted abode of the Old Man of the
Mountain,§ who gave to his credulous neophytes
* Krachenninikof, Description du Kamtschatka, part i., chap,
xiv.
t Paulin de St. Barthdlemi, Voyage aux Indes Orientates, tome
ii., pp. 426, 427.
t J. Hammer, Mines of the East.—Nouvelles Annales des Voy­
ages, tome xxv., pp. 337-378.
§ This is an absurd translation of the title of Seydna, and
Sheikh-al-Jebal, literally, Elder Mountain Chief, which was as­
sumed by Hassan Sabah, a chief of a sect of Eastern Ismailites,
who made himself master of Alamoot, one of the strong hill-for­
tresses which cover the mountainous region that divides Persian
Irak and the northernly provinces of Dilem and Taberistan. The
followers of Hassan were bound to the most rigid obedience to
the precepts of Islam, or Abdallah Maimom, the projector of the
sect. It is unnecessary here to describe the rules which were
requisite to be practiced by the aspirants, proselytes to the faith
of the society. Assassination was an obligation on the Ismailite
Fedavee, one of the divisions of the sect; any one of whom,
ordered by a superior to assassinate a stranger, was obliged to
obey; and, in the peformance of the order, the wretched Fedavee
firmly believed he was promoting the cause of truth. It has been
supposed that the name Assassins, given to the society, originated
in this obligation; but the appellation is derived, according to M.
Digitized by Google
22 TYRANNY OF SUPERSTITION.
such a foretaste of paradise, that the hope of one
day returning to this place of delights made them
consent to the commission of every crime, brave
De Sacy, from the Oriental term Hashisheen, corrupted by the
Crusaders into assassin. This term implies takers of hashiche,
a species of hemp, from which an intoxicating drug was com­
pounded, which the Fedavee took previously to their engaging
in their daring enterprises; and which procured for them the
delicious visions of paradise, promised to all the followers of the
Sheikh-el-Jebal. This paradise was typified on earth, according
to Marco Paulo, who traveled over the East in the thirteenth
century, by gardens of the most luxurious description, stored
with the most delicious fruit and flagrant flowers and shrubs,
and containing palaces inhabited by exquisitely beautiful and
highly accomplished damsels, clothed in the richest dresses, and
educated to display every grace and fascination that could capti­
vate the senses.
The chief, in discoursing of paradise to his followers, persuaded
them that he had the power of granting admission to it; and to
prove the truth of his assertion, he caused a potion of a soporific
kind to be administered to ten or twelve of them at a time, and
when they were sound asleep, he had them conveyed to the
palaces in the garden. On awaking from their sleep, their senses
were struck with the beauty and splendor of every object upon
which their eyes rested; their ears were ravished with the most
harmonious voices; and their fond glances at the lovely damsels
were returned with the most alluring caresses; until, truly in­
toxicated with the excess of enjoyment, they believed themselves
actually in paradise. After a time they were again thrown into
sleep, and carried out of the garden. They were questioned be­
fore the whole court as to where they had been and what they
had seen; and having detailed all the pleasures they enjoyed, the
chief assured them that those who yielded implicit obedience to
him should inherit such a paradise forever.,
The effects of such an imposture display, most strikingly, the
lengths to which credulity and superstition will conduct mortals.
The following anecdote powerfully elucidates this remark. “ An
ambassador from the Sultan Malek Schah having come to Ala­
moot to demand submission and obedience of the sheikh, Hassan
received him in a hall in which he had assembled several of his
followers. Making a sign to one youth, he said, ‘ Kill thyself I’
Instantly the young man’s dagger was plunged into his own
bosom. To another he said, ‘Fling yourself down from the
wall!’ In an instant his shattered limbs were lying in the castle
ditch. Then turning to the terrified envoy, he exclaimed—‘I
have seventy thousand followers who obey me after this fashion.
This is my answer to your master 1’ ”* These victims died in
* Marinas Sanatus, lib. iii.—Secret Societies, Library of Entertaining
Knowledge, p. 81.
Digitized by UooQle
TYRANNY OF SUPERSTITION. 23
the most cruel tortures, and undaunted meet cer­
tain death. At a much earlier period, Shedad-
benad, King of Arabia, desiring to be worshiped
as a god, collected in a garden, the name of which
was proverbial in the East, all the delights of para­
dise ; and allowed them to be enjoyed by the faith­
ful whom he deigned to admit into it.
* In both
cases, we think that these gardens of pleasure only
existed in dreams, caused among young men ha­
bituated to a simple and austere diet by the use
of potions to which they were unaccustomed, and
which exalted their weak reasons, and filled their
heated imaginations.! Under the name ofbendje, a
preparation of hyosdamus (henbane),f the same
plant, no doubt, as the hyosdamus datura, served
to intoxicate them so completely, that they believed
themselves in paradise, of which glowing descrip­
tions had been previously given to them; they ex­
perienced also a violent desire to be transported
the full conviction that they were immediately to pass into that
sensual paradise, of which they had received a foretaste in the
gardens of the sheikh.
It is out of place to trace here the history of a people whose
chief object was evil; and who—for Providence provides retribu­
tion for crime even in this world—have ceased to live politically
for nearly six centuries. The sect still exists in Persia, and
scattered over great part of Asia. They regard their imam as an
incarnate ray of the Divinity; they hold him in the highest vene­
ration ; and they make pilgrimages from the most distant places
to the village of Khekh, in the district of Koorn, where he resides,
to obtain his blessing.—En.
* D’Herbelot, Bibliotheque Orientate, art. Iram.
t The foregoing note has proved that the opinion of this author
is erroneous as far as regards the followers of Hassan Sabah.
—Ed.
t M. J. Hammer (loc. cit.) appears to think that the bendje
was the same thing as the hashiche; but in a fragment of an
Arabian romance, for the translation of which we are indebted to
him, it is positively stated that the bendje was a preparation of
henbane.—p. 380.
I am disposed to differ from the opinion of our author respect­
ing bendje, which I have been informed is a preparation of hemp,
cannabis indica.—Ed.
Digitized by Google
24 TYRANNY OF SUPERSTITION.
to it, even through death ; while, in order to incite
them to some desperate act, the hashiche, or ex­
tract of hemp, was administered to them—and is
still employed in the East for the same purpose.
The real existence of the gardens of the Old Man
of the Mountain, has, nevertheless, been acknowl­
edged by enlightened men * In opposition to them,
however, we may be permitted to mention the basis
upon which we had established our opinion to the
contrary,! even before it acquired another degree
of probability by the assent of M. Virey.f This is
no deviation from our subject; the wonders em­
ployed for operating upon the credulity of men by
beings who pretended to be endowed with super­
natural powers form a part of our inquiry.
* MM. Malthe-Brun et J. Hammer.—Mines de VOrient.—Nou-
wiles Annales des Voyages, tome xxv., pp. 376-382.
t Bulletin de Pharmacie, tome v., pp. 55-66 (Fevrier, 1812).
X Eusebc Saiverte, Des Rapports de la Medicine avec la Politique
(in 12mo., 1806). We transcribe this passage, with the correc­
tions that have been prepared for another edition. The whole
work was read in 1804 to the Soci'ete Medicated’Emulation de Paris,
The Old Man of the Mountain, whose history
is obscured by so many fables, surrounded himself
by a troop of fanatics, ready to dare every thing at
his first signal. It is said, that their unbounded
devotion was produced by a narcotic, during the
effect of which they were transported into the
most delicious gardens, where, when they awoke,
every luxury was collected to make them believe
that for some hours they tasted the pleasures of
heaven. The exactitude of this recital may be
questioned. How many indiscretions might every
day compromise the existence of a fictitious para­
dise 1 How would it be possible to assemble and
bind to inviolable secrecy so many agents, exempted
from the fanaticism which their artifices produced
in others, and who, not regarding silence as a duty,
Digitized by C>ooQle
TYRANNY OF SUPERSTITION. 25
would, on the contrary, doubt the blind obedience
which they labored to inspire, since, at the least
caprice of the tyrant, they might become the first
victims of it 1 The slaves of both sexes, who fig­
ured before the initiated as angels and houris, could
not be supposed to prove always discreet. What
would become of them, at last, when the progress
of years did not permit them to appear in the same
parts 1 Death alone could insure future silence ;
and would not the prospect of such a reward untie
their tongues on the first favorable occasion, or lead
them to kill their tormentor when, wandering alone
among them, he came to confirm the neophyte in
his false persuasion 1 How, also, would this tribe
of actors support themselves 1 Could their master
every day administer to their wants without its be­
ing perceptible abroad 1 In addition, the numbei
of precautions to be taken—the provisions to be
renewed—the frequent necessity of getting rid of
these agents, from whose indiscretion there was
every thing to be feared—are all difficulties in the
way of our belief in this abominable mystery, much
less jhat it could be maintained for even three
years.
“ Beside, it is certain that bodily enjoyment,
with whatever ingenuity they may be varied or
arrested, have intervals too marked—contrasts too
sensible of void and reality—to permit the creation,
or the long endurance, of such an illusion. How
much more simply is every thing explained, by
ascribing the illusions to physical intoxication, com­
bined with the intoxication of the soul! Among
credulous men, previously prepared by the most
flattering pictures of paradise and promises of fu­
ture felicity, the iftkcotic potion would easily pro­
duce the most pleasurable and desirable sensations,
and the magical continuation of them would render
Digitized by kjOOQle
26 TYRANNY OF SUPERSTITION.
them doubly valuable. ‘ To speak plainly, they
can only be regarded as a vision,’ says Pasquier,
*
who, after having examined every thing related by
cotemporary authors on the subject of the Assas­
sins, arrives at that conclusion. Ask a man, in
whom a dose of opium has lulled an excruciating
pain, to display a picture of the enchanting illusion
which he experienced, and the state of ecstasy into
which he was plunged for more than twenty-four
hours, and they will be found exactly those of the
supernatural delights heaped by the chief of the
Assassins upon his future Seides. We know with
what avidity the Easterns, who are accustomed to
take opium, give themselves up to its delights, in
spite of the ever growing infirmities which it heaps
upon their wretched existence. This eagerness
may afford some idea of the pleasures that accom­
pany this species of intoxication, and enable us to
comprehend that uncontrollable desire which may
urge an ignorant and superstitious youth to dare
every thing in order to possess, for eternity, such
ineffable delights.”
The remembrance of the devotion of the disci­
ples of the Old Man of the Mountain to their mas­
ter, is naturally united to that of the constancy
with which they endured the most cruel tortures.
The intoxication of fanaticism would arm them
with this invincible constancy: the noble pride of
courage, the obstinacy even of a trifling point of
honor, would often be sufficient to inspire it. It
was, however, much too important to their chief,
to be certain that none of them should fail him, to
allow him to rely solely on the power of the recol­
lection of the delights that they experienced : es­
pecially when time and distance might reasonably
* E. Pasquier, Les Recherches de la France, liv. viii., chap. xx.
(2 vols. in fol.), Amsterdam, 1723, tome i., p. 798.
Digitized by C>ooQle
TYRANNY OF SUPERSTITION. 27
be supposed to weaken their influence. If he was
acquainted with the means of allaying bodily feel­
ings, he doubtless took care, also, to provide for
the ministers of his vengeance the same means, in
order that they might employ it in a critical mo­
ment. The promise of sustaining his followers
when under the empire of pain, exalted still more
their fanaticism; and the accomplishment of this
promise became a new miracle: an additional
proof of the certain power of him they regarded
as the governor of nature. In advancing this con­
jecture, we must acknowledge that we can not
support it by any historical proofs.
* But is it like­
ly that the Thaumaturgists would be unacquainted
* Literary Gazette, No. 1524, p. 317.
♦ The reasoning of our author is ingenious, and very plausible;
but it is not sufficient to overthrow the testimony of Marco Paulo,
Hammer, and others, respecting the existence of the gardens of
the Ismailite chief at Alamoot. What, we may ask, would the
followers of the Sheikh-el-Jebal, to whom were intrusted his se­
crets, not suffer rather than divulge them, when we see them
laying down their lives in his service every time that he demand­
ed the sacrifice ? These were not acts of obligation, but of a per­
suasion that obedience to their chief was to gain them eternal
felicity in paradise after death. Beside, the pains that are taken
by all Oriental nations, to confirm the truth of their creeds, can
not be denied; and the secrecy in which their impostures are
veiled and preserved is almost incredible. Thus, in a late com­
munication made to the Royal Asiatic Society, by Sir Claude
Wade, on the geography of the Punjaub, we are informed that,
in a small but deep lake seven coss from Soohait, named Rawal-
sir, are seven floating islands, which are objects of worship to
Hindoo pilgrims. These votaries proceed to the shores of the
lake, address the islands, and present their offerings; upon which,
it is stated, the islands approach the shores, receive the offerings
upon their surface, and then retire. “ As this tale,” adds Sir
Claude, “is invariably accredited among the natives, it is not
improbable that artificial means are taken to cause the islands to
traverse the yielding surface.”* What the nature of this cause
is, however, remains an inviolable secret; although many per­
sons must be employed in working it, and successive changes of
workmen must be required. This fact, therefore, gives the color­
ing of truth to all that has been related respecting the gardens
at Alamoot.—Ed. .
Digitized by UooQle
28 TYRANNY OF SUPERSTITION.
with a secret known to all antiquity, and especially
in Palestine ? The Rabbins
* inform us, that a
drink of wine and strong liquors was given to the
unhappy ones condemned to death, and powders
were mixed in the liquor, in order to render it
stronger and to deaden the senses. The object of
this custom was, no doubt, to reconcile with hu­
manity the intention of exciting alarm by the sight
of executions. • In the second century of our era,
it is related by Apuleius, that a man fortified him­
self against the violence of blows by a potion con­
taining myrrh.t If, as we think, myrrh could only
be drunk in the form of a tincture, the effect of the
alcohol must have increased the efficacy of the stu­
pefying drug. We observe everywhere, that this
property attributed to the myrrh is not among
those for which it is employed in the present day
as a medicine. The name of myrrh, however,
might serve to disguise a preparation, the ingredi­
ents of which were intended to be kept secret.
But in either case, the Old Man of the Mountain
could not certainly have been ignorant of a secret
which had for so long a time prevailed in Pales­
tine, and which he might also have borrowed from
Egypt. The stone of Memphis (lapis mempJiiticus)
was a round body, sparkling, and about the size
of a small pebble; it was regarded as a natural
body. I consider it to have been a work of art.
It was ground into powder and laid as an ointment
on the parts to which the surgeon was about to
apply the knife or the fire.J It preserved the per­
son, without danger, from the pains of the opera­
tion ; if taken in a mixture of wine and water, it
deadened all feelings of suffering^
* Tract. Sanhedr.—D. Calmet, Commentaire sur le Livre des Pro
*
verbes, chap, xxi., v. 6. f Evang. sec. Marct cap. xv., v. 25.
t Dioscorid., lib. v., cap. clviii.
$ Plin., Hist. Not., lib. xxxviii., cap. vii.
Digitized by UooQle
TYRANNY OF SUPERSTITION. 29
A similar secret has existed in all ages in Hin-
dostan. It is probably by such means that the
widows
* are preserved from shrinking from the
dread of the blazing pile upon which they place
themselves with the dead bodies of their husbands.
The eye-witness of one of these sacrifices that took
place in July, 1822, saw the victim arrive in a com­
plete state of bodily insensibility, the effect, no
doubt, of the drugs which had been administered
to her. Her eyes were open, but she did not ap­
pear to see; and, in a weak voice, and as if me­
chanically, she answered the legal questions that
were put to her regarding the full liberty of her
sacrifice. When she was laid on the pile, she was
absolutely insensible.t The Christians carried
* Le P. Paulin de St. Barth&emi, Voyage aux Indes Orientates,
tome i., p. 358.
t The Asiatic Journal, vol. xv., 1823, pp. 292, 293. The cus­
tom of drugging the Indian widows previous to gaining their con­
sent to this monstrous concremation, is stated to be not unusual,
when their relations have any advantage to gain by their decease;
but as many of those who submit to it are of the lower order of
women, vanity, and the force of a prevailing superstition, are the
chief inducements. There can be no doubt that this, one of the
dominant passions of the sex, frequently impels them to the sac­
rifice ; for women who commit this suicide are canonized after
death, and crowds of votaries frequent their shrines, to implore
their protection, and to pray for their aid and deliverance from
evil.
When this self-sacrifice is by concremation, it is termed Saha-
marana; but occasionally, although rarely, it is performed when
the husband is at a distance; it is then solitary, or Anamarana.
The name given to these immolations, by the English in India, is
Suttee, a corruption of the word Sati, or pure, the appellation be­
stowed not upon the sacrifice, but upon the female after she has
been purified by the fire. The woman is not, say the Bramins,
destroyed, but only consumed ; not annihilated, but merely changed.
The tradition of the origin of the custom relates, that the father-
in-law of Siva having omitted to invite her to a wedding, his wife
Paravati felt so offended at this neglect, that in the paroxysm
of her rage she flung herselfinto the fire, and was consumed. She
thence became Sati (transcendent purity), which is also one of hei
names.
These shameful immolations have been attempted to be put
down by the Indian government, but ineffectually ; and, so late as
Digitized by tjOOQle
30 TYRANNY OF SUPERSTITION.
this secret from the East into Europe, on the re­
turn of the Crusaders. It was probably known to
the subaltern magicians, as well as that of braving
the action of fire, from which, I imagine, arose the
rule of jurisprudence according to which physical
1825, the number in one year amounted to one hundred and four.
When once a woman declares her intention of submitting to
concremation with the dead body of her husband, she can not re­
voke. The interest of the whole community is at stake as well
as her own character; for, if she refuse, it is a prevailing belief
that the whole country would be visited with some awful ca­
lamity. Every effort is therefore employed to inspire her with
sacred heroism, and to exalt her imagination to the highest pitch
that fanaticism and superstition can impart; and when these are
likely to fail, she is rendered nearly insensible by some narcotic
beverage. The sacrifice is preceded by a procession, in which
the wretched victim appears decorated with jewels and flowers
of the tulse, or holy ocymum plant (ocymum sanctum, Linn.) is
borne on a rich palanquin, following a kind of triumphal car, on
which the dead body other husband is seated, also decorated with
jewels and costly vestments. When the procession has reached
the pile, and the dead body has been laid upon it, the widow is
bathed without removing her clothes and jewels, and then recon­
ducted to the pile, around which she is walked three times, sup­
ported by some of her nearest relations. These ceremonies being
concluded, she is cast upon the dead body of her husband; and
gee, a species of semi-fluid butter, being poured upon the dry
wood, it is instantly fired, and she quickly dies of suffocation be­
fore the fire reaches her body.
In examining the accounts of the composure and almost philo­
sophical indifference with which these women sacrifice their lives
to the prevailing superstition, there is no necessity for believing
that it is the sole result of the narcotics administered to them.
Woman, in every country and in every age, displays more the
character of the sincere devotee than man. Convinced of the
truth of the doctrine she embraces, it absorbs her whole mind;
her contemplation rests firmly upon it; and when an hour of trial
arrives, she reposes upon its promises in undisturbed tranquillity;
all the ties of relationship and of country are forgotten ; every act
of memory and consciousness is suppressed; and under the cir­
cumstances, such as have been described as taking place in these
concremations, her whole mind turned upon the beatitude she is
about to attain, the frailties of our nature are surmounted, and
the mortal seems almost already invested with supernatural pow­
ers. To the operation of this state of mind, in the opinion of the
writer of this note, may we attribute some, at least, of the extra­
ordinary displays of heroism occasionally exhibited in these self-
immolations.—Ed.
Digitized by UooqIc
TYRANNY OF SUPERSTITION. 31
insensibility, whether partial or general, was a cer­
tain sign of sorcery. Many authors quoted by
Fromann
* speak of the unhappy sorcerers who
have laughed or slept through the agonies of tor­
ture; and they have not failed to add that they
were sent to sleep by the power of the devil.
It is also said that the same advantage was en­
joyed by pretended sorcerers about the middle of
the fifteenth century. Nicholas Eymeric, Grand
Inquisitor of Arragon, author of the famous Direc-
toire des Inquisiteurs, loudly complained of the sor­
ceries practiced by accused persons, through the
aid of which, when put to the torture, they ap­
peared absolutely insensible.! Fr. Pegna, who
wrote a commentary on Eymeric’s work, in 1578,
believed also the reality and efficacy of the sor­
ceries.:): He strengthens himself by the evidence
of the inquisitor Grillandus, and Hippolytus de
Marsilies. The latter, who was Professor of Juris-
prudence at Bologna in 1524, positively declares,
in his “ Pratique Criminelle,” that he has seen the
effect of the philters upon the accused persons,
who suffered no pain, but appeared to be asleep
in the midst of the tortures. The expressions he
makes use of are remarkable; they describe the
insensible man, as if plunged into a torpor more
like the effect produced by an opiate, than the
proud bearing which is the result of a perseverance
superior to every pain.
To many instances of this temporary insensi­
bility, Wierius adds an important observation : he
saw a woman thus inaccessible to the power of
torture—her face was black, and her eyes were
* Fromann, Tract, de Fasc., <fc., pp. 593, 594, et 810, 811.
t Aliqui emt maleficiati et in quaetionibus malejictie utuntur—
efficiuntw enim ineeneibles. — Direct. Inquisit., cum adnot. Fr.
Pegna (Romae, folio), part iii., p. 481.
t Direct, Inquie., p. 483.
Digitized by C>ooQle
32 TYRANNY OF SUPERSTITION.
starting out as if she had been strangled; her ex­
emption from suffering was due to a species of
apoplexy.
* A physiciant who witnessed a similar
state of insensibility compares it to fits, epileptic or
apoplectic.
A humorous writer, a cotemporary of Francis
Pegna and of J. Wierius, whose name inspires us
with little confidence, but who, on this occasion,
speaks of what he had seen, and whose place in a
tribunal enabled him to know with certainty what
occurred,^ has also described, with Taboureau, the
soporific state which preserved the accused from
the sufferings of torture. According to him it was
almost useless to put the question. All the jailers
were acquainted with the stupefying recipe, and
they did not fail to communicate it to the prisoners ;
nothing could be easier than to practice it else­
where, if confidence was reposed in its influence.
The secret consisted in swallowing soap dissolved
in water.
Common soap does not, certainly, possess the
virtues ascribed to it by Taboureau; but does it
therefore follow that the principal incident, namely,
the administration of some potion, is false 1 I con­
sider it does not; for this author is not the only
person who has stated this fact. On this occasion
only did the possessors of the secret impose on
mankind, less to insure to themselves the exclusive
possession of it, than to preserve the power of em­
ploying it. This becomes credible, if there are
substances capable of realizing it; and how many
may we not number that stupefy, that suspend,
* J. Wierius, De Praestig., lib. iv., cap. x., p. 520 et seq.
t Fromann, Tract, de Fasc., pp. 810, 811.
t Et. Taboureau, Des faux sorciers et tears impostures (1585).
Discourse inserted in the fourth Book of the liigarrures du Siew
des Accords. Et. Taboureau was the king’s counsel at the baili­
wick of Dijon.
Digitized by tjOOQle
TYRANNY OF SUPERSTITION. 33
and destroy nervous sensibility. Opium, henbane,
belladonna, aconite, solanum, stramonium, have been
used to deaden pain in surgical operations ; and if
they are not now so much prescribed, it is because
the stupor they induce endangers the cure, and
sometimes the life, of the patient. Such a fear
would not, however, prevent them from being used
by the Bramins, who conducted the Hindoo wid­
ows to the funereal piles of their husbands. It
had, however, we perceive, little hold on the disci­
ples of the Old Man of the Mountain, or on the
accused who were menaced with torture. Among
the substances mentioned, we may distinguish some
that were no doubt made use of by the Eastern
Thaumaturgist; and others so common in Europe,
that they might easily have been furnished, aS
Taboureau states, to the prisoners by the jailers
when they were required.
Such there are, and from the number of these
substances, and the facility of procuring them, we
xnay be permitted to suppose that, known in all
ages, they have been, at all times, employed to
work apparent miracles. It is not the moderns
alone who have witnessed the atrocious cruelties,
almost above human strength to bear, which before
the eyes of a whole nation have been endured by
the Hindoo, penitents; the historians of Greece
and Rome have spoken of them,
* and national
traditions state their practice to have existed from
the commencement of religious civilization. The
patience of man in submitting to them, most prob­
ably, has resulted from the cause we have pointed,
out, namely, the actual use of stupefying drugs s
they repeat it often, and this practice, thus pro­
longed, ends in a perpetual torpor, and renders
these fanatics capable of supporting tortures that
* Solinus, cap. Iv.
IL C
Digitized by Google
34 TYRANNY OF SUPERSTITION.
last their lifetime. The almost entire destruction
of bodily feeling can not be effected without in­
juring the mind, and plunging the soul into com­
plete imbecility—which is in fact the ruling feature
of nearly all these miraculous penitents.
' It is also in this state of imbecility that Diodorus
represents the Ethiopian savages, whom he de­
scribes as being quite insensible to blows, wounds,
and the most extraordinary tortures * A learned
man of the seventeenth century! supposes that th©
traveler Simmias, from whom Diodorus copied his
narration, had taken as the general character of a
nation the temporary state of some individuals in­
toxicated by a potion similar to the nepenthes
which Homer mentions. It is more probable that
SimmiasJ met, on the shores of Ethiopia, penitents
such as those that exist at the present day in Hin-
dostan ; and the state in which he saw them§ had
♦ Diod. Sicul., lib. iii., cap. viii.
. t Pierre Petit. D. M., Dissertation -sur le Nepenthes, 8vo.
Utrecht.
t Simmias was a philosopher of Thebes, but neither he nor
Diodorus is high authority: both were extremely credulous, and
both equally ambitious of recording wonders.—Ed.
$ Hasselquist (Voyage dans le Levant, 1st part, p. 257), ob­
serves, that opium, habitually taken in excess by the dervises,
conduces to complete stupidity.
. The torments which the Yogis, or Indian penitents, impose
upon themselves, are not borne by the individual becoming in­
sensible through the influence of stupefying drugs, but they are
truly the result, either of an ambition to become worthy of
eternal bliss, or a slavish obedience to vanity, that they may
enjoy in this world the respect of the noble and the great, and
|he admiration of the unthinking multitude. A Yogis will stand
m a certain position for years: sometimes with bis hands above
Jiis head, until the arms wither, and become incapable of action;
others keep the hands closed until the nails pierce through their
palms; some double themselves up liks a hedgehog, and thus
are rolled along from the Indus to the banks of the Ganges; or
Suspend themselves by the heels over the fiercest fires, or sit in
|he center of many tires, throwing combustibles into them to in<
crease the flames. These, and a thousand other tortures which
they brave, are not all the result of trick, aided by stupefying
drugs, as our author asserts, but the effects of an absurd, super-
Digitized by CjOOQle
USE OF PERFUMES IN SORCERY. 35
become permanent by the continual use of drugs
competent to produce it.
CHAPTER II.
Cfiect of Perfumes on the Moral Nature of Man.—Action of Lini-
• ments; the Magic Ointment frequently operated by occasion­
ing Dreams, which the Predisposition to Credulity converted
into Realities.—Such Dreams may explain the whole History
of Sorcery.—The principal Causes which multiplied the Num­
ber of Sorcerers were the Employment of Mysterious Secrets.
' —The Crimes which these pretended Mysteries served to con­
ceal; and the rigorous Laws absurdly directed against the
Crime of Sorcery.
The impression of the marvelous increases upon
us in proportion to the distance which seems to
stitious credulity, that those acts are to gain for them eternal
felicity. That many of them are sincere is demonstrated in
their belief that even tigers will respect them—will come volun­
tarily to them—and lie down, and fondle, and lick their hands : a
belief which sometimes costs them their lives. Upon what other
plea can we account for the suicides that are perpetrated at the
temple of Juggernaut, and at the sacred spot where the Ganges
and the Jumna mingle their waters; and the disgusting abomina­
tions that nothing but a sincere belief in their efficacy could have
admitted into several of their religious ceremonies. That many
penitents perish by tigers every year, but nevertheless that num­
bers of these penitents are impostors, there is little doubt. Their
putting to death and resuscitating a human victim, or what is
termed pahvadam, is undoubtedly a mere counterfeit rite to im­
pose upon the ignorant and extort charity from the rich ; and
many others of their exhibitions are intended for the same pur­
pose. This does not, however, weaken our argument in favor
of the extreme length to which a desire to confirm extraordinary
doctrines will carry enthusiasts. Without going to Hindostan,
we may find in Europe sufficient evidence of this fact; but the
inention of one only will suffice to demonstrate the temper of the
period when such proofs could be demanded or believed. "When
Antioch was taken by the Christians, in the eleventh century,
the identity of the lance which was reputed to have pierced the
side of our Savior was disputed. The monk who had recently
made the discovery, by the suggestion of a vision, offered to
undergo the ordeal of fire to establish the truth of what he said.
His offer was accepted, and he passed through the terrible proof.
He died, however, within a few days, and the fact of the sUp­
posed discovery became problematical.
* —Ed.
* Herrington, Literary History,of theMitill 4(0., 1814, p. $65.
Digitized by UooqIc
80 USE OF PERFUMES IN SORCERY;
separate the cause from the effect. Draughts and
drugs could not be administered without the con
*
currence of the individual on whom they were
intended to operate; but persons might involun­
tarily become intoxicated by the perfumes shed
around the altar and the incense lavishly used in
magical ceremonies, even without a suspicion of
their powers. This fact afforded many advantages
to the Thaumaturgist, especially when it was his
interest to produce visions and ecstasy. The choice
and the combination of these perfumes were scru­
pulously studied.
* Proclus, De Sacrifid* et Magia. t AuL. -
It may be remembered that, in order to give
children a capability of receiving revelations in.
dreams, the use of fumigations with certain ingre­
dients was recommended by Porphyrus.
* Proclus,
who frequently, in common with his philosophic
cotemporary, transmitted mere medicinal prescrip­
tions under the form of an allegory, relates! that
the founders of the ancient priesthood, after col­
lecting various odors, combined them according to
the process of divine art; by which means a
singular perfume was compounded, in which the
energy of the numerous odors was brought to a
climax by this union, and became necessarily weak­
ened by separation.
In the hymns ascribed to Orpheus, and which
evidently belong to the ritual of some very an­
cient worship, a separate perfume is assigned
to accompany the invocation of each divinity.
These diverse rites had not, invariably, an ac­
tual meaning in their application; but general
rules being thus established, they were more
easily taken advantage of on necessary occa­
sions, the priest having the power of directing
Digitized by Google
US
* OF PERFUMES IN SORCERY. 97
■ tiie perfume to be used in addressing any particular
divinity.
*
The physical and moral action of odors has not
perhaps, in this view, been so much studied by
modern philosophers as by the ancient Thauma-
turgists. Herodotus, however, informs us, that the
Scythians became intoxicated by inhaling the va­
por arising from tbe seeds of a species of hemp,
thrown upon heated stones.! We learn also from
modern science, that a disposition to anger and to
strife is produced by the mere odor of the seeds
of henbane, when its strength is augmented by
heat. Three examples, related in Le Dictionnaire
de MedecinC^ and in L’Encyclopedic Methodiqae, go
* The ancients were particularly fond of perfumes. In Athens,
when the guests invited to a feast entered the house of their host,
their beards 4 were perfumed over with censers of frankincense,
as ladies have their tresses on visiting a Turkish harem. The
hands, too, after each lavation, were scented.” It was usual, also,
*
after supper to perfume the guests.”* The influence of odors
on the organs of smelling depends more on the condition of the
nervous tissue of that organ, than upon the nature of the odors;
and much also is due to the healthy or the diseased condition of
the system. Odors delightful to one person are intolerable to
another: mignionette possessed nothing agreeable in its odor to
the celebrated Blumenbach ; and the distinguished Baron Haller
declared that no odor was so agreeable to him as that of a dis-
. sectmg-room. The impression made upon the olfactory nervesis
generally transitory, the sensation vanishing when the odorous
substance is withdrawn; hut the sensations of some odors con-
, tinue after the impression of the odorous matter has ceased. In
some persons odors do not operate as merely topical stimulants,
but affect the whole system: thus, in some ipecacuanha causes
an asthmatic fever; in others, the odor of the African geranium,
pelargonium, causes famtings; the odor of the rose has produced
epilepsy ; while a few nervous people either lose the power of
smelling, or have a constant consciousness of a bad odor, or of
something which is not present. Many odors excite powerfully
the brain; some animals, as, for example, cats, are intoxicated by
valerian ; while other animals, and man himself, are sickened by
the odor of tobacco.—Ed.
t Herodot., lib. iv., cap. Ixxv.
t Tome vii., art. Jusquiame. ____________ _
♦ St. John, Manner and Cuetom of Ancient Greece, vol. L, pp.
175-184.
* *
Digitized by CjOOQle
38 ACTION OF LINIMENTS IN SORCERY.
to prove this effect. The most striking is the case
of a married couple, who, although everywhere
else they lived in perfect harmony, could not, with­
out coming to blows, remain a few hours in their
ordinary workroom. The room got credit foi
being bewitched, until the cause of these daily
quarrels, over which the unfortunate pair were
seriously concerned, was discovered ; a considera­
ble quantity of seeds of henbane were found near
the stove, and with the removal of the substance
which emitted this unfortunate odor all tendency
to quarrel vanished.
This class of agents was so much the more valu­
able to the Thaumaturgist, that it not only eludes
the eye, but it does not even affect the olfactory
nerves in proportion to the violence of its effects. •
There are substances still more energetic than
perfumes, which affect our nature by acting on the
exterior of the body. The extract or the juice of
belladonna, when applied to a wound, produces
delirium accompanied by visions : one drop of this
juice, if it touch the eye, will also cause delirium,
but preceded by ambliopla, or double images.
* A
man under its influence sees every object doubled;!
and when subjected to its influence by the venge­
ance of the Thaumaturgist, he would exclaim,
like a new Pentheus, “ that he beheld two suns,
and two cities of Thebes.
♦ This observation was made by Dr. Hymli. See also Pinel,
Nosographie Philosophique (5th edition), tome iii., p. 46, et Giraudjr,
" Sur le delire cause par la Belladone,” &c. A thesis sustained in
1818.
t No extract, or expressed juice of deadly nightshade, atropa
belladonna, known at present, will produce the effect described in
the text when the eye is touched with it; but when it is taken
in full doses into the stomach, it causes dilatation of the pupils,
visual illusions, confusion of the head, and delirium resembling
that of intoxication.—Ed. . '
t Virgil, &neid, lib. iv., v. 469. Pentheus was King of Thebes,
Digitized by UooQle
ACTION OF LINIMENTS IN SORCERY. 39
Experiments have decidedly proved, that several
medicaments, administered in the form of liniments,
are taken in by the absorbent system, and act upon
the habit in the same manner as when they are
directly introduced into the stomach. This prop­
erty of liniments was not unknown to the ancients.
In the romance of Achilles Tatius, an Egyptian
doctor, in order to cure Leucippus of an attack of
frenzy, applied to his head a liniment composed
of oil, in which some particular medicament was
dissolved ; the patient fell into a deep sleep, shortly
after the anointing. What the physician was ac­
quainted with, the Thaumaturgist could scarcely
be ignorant of; and this secret knowledge endowed
him with the power of performing many apparent
miracles, some merciful, some marvelous and fatal
in their tendency. It can not be disputed that the
customary and frequent anointing, which formed
part of the ancient ceremonials, must have offered
opportunities and given facility for turning this
knowledge to advantage. Before consulting the
oracle of Trophonius, the body was rubbed with
oil ;
* this preparation undoubtedly concurred in
in Bceotia. In his efforts to put down in his kingdom the Bac­
chanalian rites, on account of the gross sensualities which at­
tended them, and his refusal to acknowledge the divinity of Bac­
chus, he whs allured into a wood on Mount Ctlhteron, with the
view of witnessing the ceremonies unnoticed, and was attacked
by the Bacchanals and murdered. It is said that his mother was
the first who attacked him, and she was followed by his two sis­
ters—Ino, who afterward committed suicide, and was deified by
the gods, and Antihoe. His body was hung upon a tree, which
was afterward cut down by order of the oracle, and made into
two statues of the Dyonesian god, which were placed on Mount
Cithaeron. The priests, no doubt, could have given a satisfactory
explanation of the whole transaction.—Eo.
♦ Pausanias, lib. ix., cap. xxxix. Pausanias was initiated into
these mysteries. The priests first made him drink from the well
of Oblivion, to banish his past thoughts; and then from the well
of Recollection, that he might remember the vision he was about
to behold. He was then shown a mysterious representation of-
Digitized by Croogle
40 ACTION OF LINIMENTS IN 80HCEBX.
producing the desired vision. Before being ad­
mitted to the mysteries of the Indian sages, Apol­
lonius and his companions were anointed with an
oil, the strength of which made them imagine that
they were 'bathed, withfin
*
The disciples of the men who established, in the
heart of America, religious doctrines and rites, evi­
dently borrowed some of them from the Asiatics.
The priests of Mexico, preparatory to their con­
versing with their divinity, anointed their bodies
with a fetid pomatum. The base of it was tobacco,
and a bruised seed called ololuchgui, the effect of
which was to deprive man of his judgment, as that
of the tobacco was to benumb his senses. After
this, they felt themselves very intrepid and not less
cruel ;t and, no doubt, predisposed to have visions,
since the intention of this practice was to bring
them into connection with the objects of their fan­
tastical worship.
But, quitting the temples for a while, let us trace
the effects of this secret when divulged, and after
it had fallen into the bands of ordinary magicians.
Trophonius, and forced to worship it. He was next dressed in
linen vestments, with girdles around his body, and led into the
sanctuary, where was the cave into which he descended by a lad­
der; at its bottom, in the side of the cave, there was an opening,
and having placed his foot in it internally, his whole body was
drawn into it by some invisible power. He returned through the
same opening at which he had entered ; and being placed on the
throne of Mnemosyne, the priests inquired what he had seen, and
finally led him back to the sanctuary of the Good Spirit. As
soon as he recovered his self-command, he was obliged to write
the vision he had seen on a little tablet, which was hung up in
the temple.—En.
* Philostrat., De nil. Apo!., lib. iii., cap. v.
t Acosta, Hisloire des lades Occidenlales, liv. v., chap, xxvi.,
French translation (in 8vo., 1616), pp. 256, 257. The Mexican
priests introduced into this ointment the ashes of the bodies of
insects that were esteemed venomous, undoubtedly to distract
the attention from the nature of the drugs that were to prove effi­
cacious.
Digitized by Croogle
ACTION OF LINIMENTS IN SORCEKT. 41
It is difficult to conceive that all is imposture in
the imaginings of poets and writers of romance re­
specting the effects of magical ointments. The
ingredients of which they were composed had, un­
doubtedly, some efficacy. We have suggested
that sensual dreams were mingled with the sleep
which they induced; a supposition whose proba­
bility rests on the fact, that those who sought their
aid were generally those whose love had been dis­
appointed or betrayed.
*
• Juv., vl., p. 610.
The demands of passion or curiosity for enchant­
ments were generally answered by means ofdreams
produced by these magical ointments, and so vivid
were the illusions that they could not fail to pass
for reality: a circumstance demonstrated in the
history of prosecutions for sorcery, the number of
which almost surpasses belief.
It was in the night, and during sleep, that the
sorcerers were transported to the Sabbat. In or­
der to obtain this privilege, they were obliged to
rub themselves in the evening with pomatum,! the
* As these ointments seem to have operated upon the nervous
system nearly in the same manner as the philters of the Greeks
and Romans, it is probable that cantharides was one of the ingre­
dients. Its active principle, canthariden, is very soluble in oils
and fatty matters, and in this solution it is readily absorbed and
carried into the system. It is this principle that causes stranguary
after the application of a blister. The ancient love-philters were
administered in the form of potions, which often acted so violently
as to produce dangerous delirium. The madness of Caligula was
attributed to one which was given to him by his wife Caesarina.
Juvenal
* speaks of the Messalian philter as one of the most pow­
erful.—Ed.
t The confessions made by the sorcerers, at the Inquisition of
Spain, in 1610, speak of the necessity, in order to be present at
the Sahbat, to rub the palms of the hands, the soles of the feet,
&c., with the water of a frightened or irritated toad (Llorente,
Histoire de I'Inquisition, chap, xxxvii., art. 2, tome iii., p. 431, et
suivantes): a puerile receipt, only intended to conceal the com­
position of the real ointment, even from the initiated.
Digitized by C>ooQle
■42 /ACTION OF LINIMENTS IN SORCERY.
composition of which was unknown to them, but
its effects were precisely such as we have men­
tioned.
A woman accused of sorcery was brought be­
fore a magistrate of Florence, a man whose knowl­
edge was greatly in advance of his age and coun­
try. She declared herself to be a sorceress, and
asserted that she would be present at the Sabbat
■ that very night, if allowed to return to her house
and make use of the magic ointment. The judge
assented. After being rubbed with fetid drugs, the
pretended sorceress lay down and immediately fell
. asleep; she was tied to the bed, while blows, prick­
ing, and scorching failed to break her slumber.
Roused at length, with much trouble, she related
the next day that she went to the Sabbat, and she
detailed the painful sensations which she had really
experienced in her sleep, and to which the judge
limited her punishment.
*
From three anecdotes precisely similar, which
we might quote from Porta and Fromann.t we
shall only extract a physiological remark. Two
of the reputed sorcerers sent to sleep by the magic
ointment had given out that they should go to the
Sabbat, and return from it flying with wings. Both
believed that this really happened, and were greatly
astonished when assured of the contrary. One in
his sleep even performed some movements, and
struck out as though he were on the wing. It is
well known that, from the blood flowing toward
the brain during sleep, it is not uncommon to
dream of flying and rising into the air.J
♦ Paolo Minucci, a Florentine jurisconsult, who died in the
sixteenth century, has transmitted this interesting fact, in his
commentary on the Mabnanlile Racquistalo, cant, iv., ott. 76.
t J. B. Porta, Magia Natur., lib. ii., cap. xxvi.—Fromann, Tract,
.de Fascin., pp. 562, 568, 569.
$ When sleep is not very profound, the senses, in a certain de-
Digitized by C>ooQle
ACTION OF LINIMENTS IN SORCERY. 43
While they acknowledge that they used a magi­
cal ointment in order to be present at the Sabbat,
these ignorant creatures could give no recipe for
making it; but medicine will readily furnish one.
Porta and Cardanus
* have mentioned two: the
solanum somniferum forms the base of one, while
henbane and opium predominate in the other.
The learned Gassendi endeavored to discover and
gree, are excitable, and the conception of ideas by the mind does
not entirely cease: consequently dreams occur. If a light is sud­
denly brought into a room where a person is in this kind of sleep,
he will either dream of being under the equator, or in a tropical
landscape; or of wandering in the fields in a clear summer’s day;
or of fire. If a door is slammed, but not so loud as to awake the
sleeper, he will dream ofthunder; and if his palm be gently tickled,
his dream will be one ofecstatic pleasure. If some particular idea
completely occupies the mind during the waking state, it will re­
cur m dreams during sleep; hence the minds of these unfortu­
nate people mentioned in the text, being strongly impressed with
the idea of being present at the Sabbat, the dreams would appa­
rently realize that event. If a person in sleep folds his arms
closely over his breast, he is likely to dream of being held down
by force, and the images of the persons employed in holding him
down will be also present to his mind. The predominant emo­
tions of the mind influence greatly the character of dreams.
When the influence is depressing, the dreams are generally terri­
ble or distressing; when the exhilarating occupy it, the dreams
are delightful and joyous. In dreams, circumstances may present
to the mind forebodings ; and it is not impossible that these may
really come to pass, without any thing wonderful in the occur­
rence; yet it appears wonderful, although, when the circum­
stances are analyzed, it will be seen to be merely the result of ,
some leading thought fixed upon the mind, and cherished during
the hours of waking. In sleep, a certain degree of voluntary mo­
tion may be exerted, and the person may talk, and appear to hear
and understand those who speak to him in return : such a state
constitutes somnambulism. In such a condition, the functions of
the brain are always more or less disturbed. The oily frictions
said to have been employed by the sorcerers must have had nar­
cotic properties ; but, independent of these, whatever gently
stimulates the skin operates sympathetically on the sensorium,
and favors sleep and dreaming.—Ed.
* J. Wierius, De Prastig., lib. ii., cap. xxxvi., p. 4.—J. B. Porta,
Magia Natur., lib. ii.—Cardan., De Subtilitate, lib. xviii. Wierius
says that the ointment mentioned by Cardanus consisted of the
Xat of boys, mixed with the juice of parsley, aconke, solanum,
pentaphylum, and soot.—Ed. .
Digitized by UooqIc
44 ACTION OF LINIMENTS IN SORCERY.
to imitate this secret, in order to undeceive the
miserable beings who imagined themselves to be
sorcerers. He anointed some peasants, whom he
had fully persuaded that they should attend the
Sabbat, with an ointment containing opium. After
a long sleep, they awoke, satisfied that the magic
process had produced its effect; and they gave a
detailed account of all they had seen at the Sabbat,
and the pleasures they had enjoyed ; in the partic­
ulars of which, and the mention of voluptuous sen­
sations, we may trace the action of opium.
*
In 1545, a pomatum composed of opiates was
found in the house of a sorcerer. Andre Laguna,
physician to Pope Julius HI., made use of it to
anoint a woman laboring under frenzy and loss of
rest. She slept thirty-six hours consecutively; and
when they succeeded in awaking her, she com­
* The most absurd stories were told and believed respecting
this assembly of demons and sorcerers. Among others, we are
told that a husband having suspected his wife of being a sorceress,
end desirous to know whether she attended the Sabbat, and how
she transported herself there, watched her, and, one evening,
found her occupied in anointing her body. She then took the
form of a bird, and flew away; but, in the morning, he found her
in bed at his side. He questioned her respecting her absence;
but she would make no confession until she was severely beaten,
when she acknowledged that she had been at the Sabbat. He
pardoned her, on the condition that she would convey him thither,
anc she assented to his wish. On arriving at the place, he was
placed at table with the assembled magicians and demons; but
finding the food very insipid, he asked for salt, which was not
brought. Perceiving, however, a salt-cellar near him, he ex­
claimed,—“ God be praised, the salt is come at last!” In an in­
stant, the whole assemblage and the repast vanished, and he found
himself in the midst of barren mountains, more than thirty leagues
from his house. On returning, he related the whole affair to the
inquisitors.who immediately ordered the arrest of his wife, and
many of her accomplices; all of whom, accordingly, were found
guilty, and unmercifully condemned to the stake.
In such a period, it was unnecessary to poison or to murder a
wife who had lost her husband’s affection, or incurred his suspi
*
cion; the law was willing and ready to perform the office of exe­
cutioner for him.—Ed. .
Digitized by UooQle
ACTION 09 LINIMENTS IN SORCERY. 45
plained of being taken from a most extraordinary
situation.
* We may, with the judicious and un­
fortunate Llorente, compare this illusion to those
experienced by the women devoted to the worship
of the mother of the gods, when they heard con­
tinually the sound of flutes and of tamborines, saw
the joyous dances ofthe fauns and satyrs, and tasted
inexpressible pleasures: similar medicaments were,
the cause among them of a similar kind of intoxi­
cation.
To this cause we may, likewise, refer the suc­
cess of the magicians in their amours, such as those
which Lucian and Apuleius have rendered so fa­
mous. This gives new grounds for the probability
that the same secret, with slight variations, was
obtained by the wretched sorcerers of the West
from the inferior magicians, who made a merchan­
dise of love-philters in Greece and in Italy.
In all ages the number of sorceresses has sur­
passed that of sorcerers; which is accounted for
by women possessing a warmer imagination and a
more sensitive organization than men. In the
same way we may explain why, in the fables so
often repeated, where the demons or Magi were
magically united to mortals, the greater number
of instances are referable to nightmare. They
were real dreams, heightened by a disposition to
hysteria; and this was the only reality they pos­
sessed.
In short, we do not scruple to say that, in order
to explain the principal facts registered in the -
bloody archives of civil and religious tribunals,
and in the voluminous records of demonology; in
order to explain the confessions of the multitude
of credulous or imbecile persons of both sexes who
* A. Laguna, Commentaire sur Dioscoride, lib. Ixxvi., cap. iv.,
cit4 par Llorente, Histoire de VInquisition, tome iii.» p. 428.
Digitized by UooQle
46 PROSECUTIONS FOR SORCERY.
firmly believed themselves to be sorcerers, and
were convinced that they had attended the Sabbat,
it is only necessary to connect, with the use of the
magical ointment, the deep impression on the im­
agination produced by previous descriptions re­
garding the Sabbat, with the ceremonies that were
witnessed there, and the joys in which those who
joined such abominations were to participate.
These presumed assemblies, indeed, and their
guilty purposes, had been notorious from the com­
mencement of the fifth century, and awakened at
an early period the increasing severity of the cler­
gy and the magistrates. They are described as of
frequent occurrence and long duration; yet all
this time the sorcerers were never once detected
at any of these meetings. It was not that fear pre­
vented it; the same records and trials mention cer­
tain proceedings by which either the legal agents
or ministers of religion, far from having any thing
to fear from the spirits of darkness, obtained an
ascendency over them, and had power to appre­
hend the .miserable creatures, in spite of the evil
spirit by whom they were misled. But in reality
these assemblies had no existence, otherwise they
must have survived the wrecks of Polytheism.
Solitary initiations were substituted for them, and
these were soon reduced to a mere confiding of
secrets; all that remained then was a mutilated
tradition of ceremonies borrowed from various pa­
gan mysteries, and a description of the joys prom­
. ised to the initiated. Conformably to the declara­
tions of the sorcerers themselves, we can not fail
to perceive that they believed the ointment with
which they rubbed their bodies to be magical; and
the facts quoted prove that its effect was so pow­
erful as fo leave them no more in doubt as to the
Yeality of the fanciful impressions it occasioned,
Digitized by UooqIc
PROSECUTIONS FOR SORCERY. 47
than of those sensations received by them in their
waking hours. Thus they had the full persuasion
of having partaken of rich feasts, while they ac­
knowledged before the judges that at these ban­
quets neither hunger nor thirst were appeased ;•
the impression of reality was so great, that they
could not believe they had merely dreamed of eat­
ing and drinking. With their dreams, however, as is
usually the case, were mingled various reminiscen­
ces. On one hand, memory presented to them a
confused succession of absurd scenes, which they
had been led to expect; and, on the other, in the
midst of magical ceremonies they saw introduced,
as actors, persons of their own acquaintance, whom
they actually denounced, swearing they had seen
them at the Sabbat; yet this homicidal oath was
no petjury! They made it with the same convic­
tion that led them to confessions and revelations,
and which devoted them to frightful punishments.
Fromann relates! that the confessions of sorcerers
condemned to be burnt at Ingolstadt were publicly
read ; they confessed to having cut off the lives of
several persons by their witchcraft: these persons
lived, were present at the trial, thus refuting the
absurd confession; and, nevertheless, the judges
continued to institute suits against sorcery. In
1750, at Wurtzburg, a nun was accused of this
crime, and carried before a tribunal, where she
firmly maintained that she was a sorceress: like
the accused at Ingolstadt, she named the victims
to her sorceries; and although these persons were
then alive, yet the unfortunate creature perished
at the stake.^
* Fromann, Tract, de Fasc., p. 613.
t Ibid, p. 850.
• J Voltaire, Prix de la Justice et de FHumanite, art. x.
• Iff 1515 not less than five hundred persons were tried at Ge­
neva, oh charges of witchcraft, and executed; and in Scotland,
Digitized by C>ooQle
48 PROSECUTIONS FOE SORCERY.
The opinion which these revelations tend to es­
tablish is not new ; J. Wierius had already honor­
ed himself by establishing it. A Spanish theolo­
gian
* addressed a treatise to the Inquisition, in
which, representing the opinion of many of his co­
temporaries, he maintained that the greater num­
ber of the crimes imputed to the sorcerers have
existed only in dreams; and that for the produc­
tion of these dreams it was only necessary to anoint
the body with drugs, and to establish a firm faith
in the individual that he should really be trans­
ported to the Sabbat.]
* Nashe’s Lenten Stuff. 1599.—Shakspeare, vol. IL, p. 477.
t Book 1., chap, iii., p.7.
in 1599, scarcely a year after the publication of the “Demon-
ologie” of King James, not less than six hundred human
beings were destroyed at once for this imaginary crime.
* The
pufferers in England, also, were very numerous. The statute
of James, which adjudged those convicted of witchcraft to
suffer death, was not repealed until the year 1736, the ninth of
peorge II.
In every country, it may be asked, who were the assumed
Pitches ? We may reply, in the words of Reginald Scott, in hit
“ Discoverie of Witchcraft,”! they were “ women which be com­
monly old, lame, bleare-eied, pale, fowle, and full of wrinkles;
poore, sullen, superstitious, and papists; or such as know no
religion; in whose drousie minds the divell hath gotten a fine
sear; so as, what mischafe, mischance, calarnitie, or slaughter is
brought to passe, they are easilie persuaded the same is doone
by themselves, imprinting in their minds an earnest and constant
imagination thereof. They are lean and deformed, shewing
melancholic in their faces, to the horror of all that see them.
They are doting, scolds, mad, divelish, and not much differing
from them that are thought to be possessed with spirits; so firm
and stedfast in their opinions, as whosoever shall onlie have
respect to the constancie of their words uttered, would easilie
believe they were true indeed.” No comment could throw any
additional light upon the cruel nature of these persecutions, anil
the description of their miserable victims.—Ed.
* Llorente, Histoire de I’Inquisition, tome iii., pp. 454, 455.
' f It has been, with some degree of probability, supposed, that
the idea of the Sabbat arose from the secrecy with which the
meetings of the Waldenses were compelled to be held, and the
accusations of indulging in unhallowed rites which were brought
against them. At a very early period, these persecuted people
Digitized by C>ooQle
PROSECUTIONS FOR SORCERY. 49
We do not say that particular causes, in subor­
dination to this general one, may not have had a
very sensible influence in producing the accusa­
tions of witchcraft among a very ignorant popula­
tion ; for example, the possession of superior sci­
ence has brought upon a man the reputation of
being a sorcerer. The opportunity afforded for
observation was the source of the accusation of
sorcery against shepherds. In their frequent iso-
had separated and kept themselves distinct from the Church of
Rome. In 1332, Pope John XXII. issued a bull against them,
and another was sent forth, in 1487, by Innocent VIII., enjoining
the nuncio, Alberto Capitaneis, “ to extirpate the pernicious sect
of malignant men called the poor people of Lyon, or the Wal-
denses, who have long endeavored in Piedmont, and other neigh­
boring parts, to ensnare the sheep belonging unto God, under a
feigned picture of holiness.” Many persecutions followed ; but
the Waldenses defended their opinions with the most determined
resolution, and even with the sword. In some of the defeats
which they suffered, both women and children were put to
death ; and the prisoners were, in several instances, burned alive.
These excesses drove the wretched Waldenses, thus suffering
for conscience’ sake, to lake refuge in the fastnesses of the
mountains, a step which brought upon them the accusations
already noticed, and originated the supposition that the Sabbat,
which the wretches suspected of witchcraft were stated to at­
tend, was a real meeting. The Waldenses were also sometimes
called Scabases, from the belief that, like the witches, they pro­
ceeded through tbe air to their meetings, riding upon broomsticks.
Credulity regarded the Sabbat as real; for Reginald Scott informs
us, that it was generally believed that the witches met together
at certaine assemblies, at the time prefixed, and doo not onlie
see the dwell in visible forme, but confer and talke familiarlie
with him;” and he adds that, on the introduction of a novice,
the arch-demon, “chargeth hir to procure men, women, and chil­
dren also, as she can, to enter into this societie...........At these
magical assemblies, the witches never fail to danse, and whiles
they sing and danse everie one hath a broome in hir hand, and
holdeth it up aloft.”* Such was the extraordinary length to
which credulity extended respecting this imaginary assembly;
and one of the chief features of the monstrous and gross super­
stition which existed, at the period alluded to. was the melan­
choly fact that it was the creed of all ranks, from the monarch to
the beggar. Happily, since the light of education has penetrated
into the cottage, it remains merely as a matter of fanciful tra­
dition.—Ed.
* Discover^ of Witchcraft, book i., chap. iii.
II. D
Digitized by CjOOQle
50 PROSECUTIONS FOR SORCERY.
lations from society, necessity has forced these
men to be the physicians and surgeons of their
flocks ; and, favored by chance and guided by
analogy, they were sometimes enabled to perform
cures on their own race. The sick man was heal­
ed ; and the question was put, whence did the un­
instructed individual derive so marvelous a faculty
if not from magic ? Several shepherds, it is well
known, also became, in a short time, so intimate
with the individual physiognomy of their sheep, as
readily to distinguish any one of his own flock
mingled with the flock of another shepherd.
* The
man who could thus select his own from a thou­
sand animals, apparently similar, could not easily
avoid being deemed a sorcerer; particularly if
vanity or interest should lead him to favor the error
which gains him the reputation of superior power
and knowledge. What must be the consequence,
then, if the center whence light ought to emanate ;
if the authority, which rules the destiny of every
citizen, is governed by the common opinion!
Even in our own day, the French legislation has
treated shepherds as accused, or, at least, as sus­
pected of sorcery; for we find that simple menaces
from them are punished by tortures, reserved, in
other cases, for assaults and murders. Does not this
arise from the supposition, that there is a power of
evil in their mere words 1 This law, enacted in
1751,t although fallen into disuse, has not yet been
formally abrogated.
♦ M, Desgranges, Memoirs sur les Usages d’un Canton de la
Beauce.—Memoires de la Societe des Antiquaires de France, tome L,
pp. 242, 243.
f A similar law forbids all shepherds to menace, ill treat, or do
any wrong to the farmers or laborers whom they serve, or who
are served by them, as well as their families, shepherds, dr
domestics, under penalty, for the said shepherds, of five years
at the galleys for simple menaces, and for ill treatment nine
years.—Ptiambule du Conseil-d’Etat du Roi, du 15 Septembre, 1751.
Digitized by C>ooQle
PROSECUTIONS FOR SORCERY. 51
The severity exercised toward sorcerers, al­
though altogether absurd in principle, yet was not
always unjust in its application, since sorcery served
frequently as the mask or instrument for the per­
petration of criminal actions. Thus the use of
drugs, by which the fish in a preserve are render­
ed so stupefied that they can be taken by the hand,
although considered now a delinquency, provided
against and punished by law, was formerly regard­
ed as the effect of sorcery. The tricks of sharpers,
with whose delinquencies our smalt courts are daily
filled, and which consist of selling the imaginary
aid of supernatural power at a high rate, were acts
of sorcery. Sorcery, indeed, was a cover for many
atrocities, and crimes, sometimes arising from the
mere desire to impose ; sometimes from transports
of cruelty or refinements of revenge, and the wish
to transfer their load of guilt to those whom they
initiated.
*
But it can not be denied, that poison alone has
too often constituted the real efficacy of sorcery :
this is a fact of which the ancients were not igno­
rant, a proof of which exists in the passage in the
* “ Commodus............sacra Mithriaca homicidio vero polluit;
cum illic aliquid, ad speciem timoris, vel dici, vel fingi soleat.”—
(.El. Lamprid. in Cammed. Anton.) This phrase is obscure ; and
shows us the extreme reserve of ancient writers on all that con­
cerned the initiations. We may, nevertheless, deduce from it,
that the novice in the mysteries of Mythra believed himself obliged
to obey the command of the initiating to kill a man. These mys­
teries, which penetrated into Rome, and afterward into Gaul, to­
ward the commencement of our era, belonged, in Asia, to the re­
motest antiquity, since Zoroaster was thus initiated before setting
out on his religious mission. Now this prophet was much earlier
than Ninus; the religion which he founded was general and pow­
erful in the Empire of Assyria, in the time of Ninus and Semira-
mis. The trial which the priests of Mythra, in order to assure
themselves, made use of to determine the resolution and docility
of an aspirant, is still practiced by one of the superior lodges of
Freemasons. Similar trials necessarily passed into the schools
of magic from the ancient temples; and that which was only used
as a pretense in general, might easily on occasion become reality.
Digitized by C>ooQle
52 ‘ PROSECUTIONS FOR SORCERY.
second eclogue of Theocritus,
* which we have just
quoted. It is a curious fact, confirmed by judicial
trials in modern times,t that the victim persisting
in ascribing his sufferings to supernatural agency
has thus aided in shielding the real crime of the
guilty from the investigation of the law.
* See chap. ix.
t In 1689, some shepherds of Brien destroyed the cattle of
their neighbors, by administering to them drugs on which they
had thrown holy water, and over which they recited magical in­
cantations. Prosecuted as sorcerers, they were condemned as
poisoners. It was discovered that the basis of these drugs was
arsenic.
It is curious to observe the similarity of customs in very distant
countries. In Shetland, the religious charmer imbued water
with magical powers for a very opposite purpose, namely, to pre­
serve from mischance ; to combat an evil eye or an evil tongue.
The charmer muttered some words over water, in imitation of
Catholic priests consecrating holy water, and the fluid was
named “ forespoken water.” Boats were sprinkled with it; and
diseased limbs washed with it, for the purpose of telling out pains.
—En.
t Llorente, Histoire de I'Inquisition, tome iii., pp. 440, 441.
In such a case, had the magistrates been enlight­
ened as well as severe, they would have acquired
great claims to public gratitude, by giving some
attention to the real nature of the crime as well as
to the punishment of it. They might, by unveiling
and giving publicity to pretended magical opera­
tions, have exposed the impotency of the magi­
cians, when prevented by circumstances from hav­
ing recourse to their detestable practices : and by
such revelations, many disordered imaginations
might eventually have been cured.
But far from doing so, the judges, for a long
period, reasoned like the inquisitors who, when
obliged, by formal depositions, to admit that the
secret of the sorcerers consisted in the composition
of poisons, punished nevertheless the imaginary
rather than the real crime.J Legislators had no
clearer discernment than the populace : they issued
Digitized by kjOOQle
PROSECUTIONS FOR SORCERY. S3
terrible decrees against sorcerers, and even by
these means doubled, nay, tenfold increased their
number. To doubt, in this case, the effect of per­
secution, were to betray great ignorance of man­
kind. Opening a vast field for all the calumny and
tale-bearing that might be dictated by folly, by
fear, by hatred, or vengeance, in preparing instru­
ments of torture and erecting stakes in every mar­
ket-place, they multiplied absurd or false accusa­
tions and still more absurd confessions.
* In giving
* Nevetfrom Scotland, reprinted in the Gent. Mag., vol. xllx., p. 449,
and quoted in Drake’s Shakepeare, vol. it, p. 476.
• No portion of the history of witchcraft is more extraordinary
than the confessions occasionally made by the wretched beings
who were brought to trial as sorcerers. Although many of them
were extorted under torture, and afterward revoked during mo­
ments of mental and bodily resuscitation, yet some of those re­
corded were voluntary. XV hat condition of mind, it may be asked,
could lead to the latter, if we can believe that the accused could
ever fancy that they were really actors in such supernatural trans­
actions? In reply, we may venture to suggest, that vanity, one
of the most powerful agents in the female character, in raising
an idea of importance at being thought possessors of the extraor­
dinary powers which they assumed, must have had a considerable
share in producing them. As a specimen of these confessions, we
may mention that of Agnes Thompson, who was implicated in
the supposed detected conspiracy of two hundred witches with
Dr. Fian, “ Register to the Devil,” at their head, to bewitch and
drown King James on his return from Denmark, in 1590. Agnes
confessed that she and the other witches, her comrades, “went
altogether by sea, each one in her riddle or sieve, with flagons of
wine, making merry and drinking by the way, to the kirk of North
Berwick, in Lothian, where, when they had landed, they took
hands and danced, singing all with one voice—
“ Cnmmer goe ye Wore, Commer goe ye;
Gif ye will not go before, Commer let me
and that Giles Duncane did go before them, playing said reel on
a Jew’s trump; and that the devil had met them at the kirk.”
The silly monarch, who was present at their confession, ex­
pressed some doubts as to the last part of it; but, taking Agnes
aside, he affirmed that she “declared unto him the very words
which had passed between him and Ins queen on the first night
of their marriage, with their answers to each other; whereat the
king wondered greatly, and swore by the living God, that he be­
lieved all the devils in hell could not have discovered the same.
*
—Ed. - ____________
Digitized by C>ooQle
54 . PROSECUTIONS FOR SORCERY.
importance to these foolish terrors, by bringing
the sacred character of the law to bear upon them,
they rendered this general apprehension incurable.
The multitude no longer doubted the guilt of men
who were so rigorously prosecuted ; enlightened
individuals swelled the ranks of the multitude,
either from the influence of the general panic, or
lest they should themselves become suspected of
the crimes whose existence they denied. How
can we otherwise account for the lengthened and
deplorable annals of sorcery, whose daily records
tell of acts perfectly impossible, but which the ac­
cused confessed, the witnesses affirmed, the doctors
established, and the judges visited with punishment
and death 1 It was, for instance, supposed, that
the physical insensibility of the whole, or some
part of the body, was a sure sign of a compact with
the devil. In France, in 1589, fourteen pretended
sorcerers, who were declared incapable of feeling,
were, for this cause, condemned to death, on the
testimony of the surgeons who formed part of the
legal commission. On an appeal from these un­
fortunate beings, another examination was ordered
by the Parliament, at that time assembled at Tours.
The sentence was stayed by the sensible men who
conducted the second inquiry, and who reported
that the accused were imbecile or deranged (per­
haps in consequence of the misery they had en­
dured), but in other respects physically possessing
a keenly sensitive nature.
* For once, truth was
triumphant, and the lives of the poor wretches
were saved. But this was a singular instance.
The course of the seventeenth century again saw
a great number of prosecutions for sorcery; till at
length the progress of knowledge—the great benefit
of civilization—drew the film from the eyes of the
* Chirurgie dr Pigray, lib. viii., chap. X., p. 445.
Digitized by kjOOQle
PERSECUTIONS FOR SORCERY. 55
supreme authorities. The Act of the Parliament
of France, of 1682, decrees that sorcerers shall be
no longer prosecuted, except as deceivers, blas­
phemers, and poisoners—that is to say, for their
real crimes; and from that time their number has
diminished every day.
*
This discussion may appear superfluous to those
impatient spirits who believe it but loss of time to
refute to-day the error of yesterday; forgetting
that the development of the sources of error form
an essential part of the history of the human mind.
Beside, although the better instructed throughout
Europe have ceased to believe in witchcraft, is this
progress so very remote; has the light already
shone on so vast a circle that this subject merits
only to be consigned to oblivion 1 Scarcely a hun­
dred years have elapsed since a book appeared in
Paris, recommending the rigor of the laws, and
the severity of the tribunals against sorcerers, and
against those who were skeptical as to the exist­
ence of witchcraft and magic; yet this book has
received the approbation of the judges of litera­
ture.!
We have already related the punishment of a
pretended witch, who was burned at Wurtzburg, in
1750. At the same period, in an enlightened coun­
try, the rage of popular credulity survived the rigor
of the magistrates, who had ceased to prosecute for
a chimerical crime. “ Scarcely half-a-century has
elapsed,” writes a traveler, an enthusiastic admirer
of the English, “ since witches have been drowned
in England. In the year 1751, two old women,
suspected to be witches, were arrested, and, in
♦ Dulaure, Histoire de Paris, tome v., pp. 36, 37.
t Traite sur la Magie, par Daugis (in 12mo., Paris, 1732), ex­
tracted, with an euloginm on it, in the Journal de Trevaux, Sep­
tember, 1732, pp. 1534-1544.
Digitized by tjOOQle
56 PERSECUTIONS FOR SORCERY.
the course of some experiments made on these
unfortunate creatures by the populace, they were
plunged three several times into a pond, and were
drowned; this occurred near Tring, a few miles
from London.”* Notwithstanding the vicinity of
the metropolis, it does not appear that any steps
were taken to punish the actors in these two mur­
derous assaults, to which the traveler gives the
gentle name of experiments.!
* Styrpe’s .Annals, vol. iv., p. 7.
t Discoeerie of Witchcraft, chap, i., p. 4.
* Voyage chin Francois en Angleterre (2 vols. 8vo., Paris, 1816,
tome i., p. 400).
t It is curious to trace the influence of the belief of witchcraft
in England and Scotland, at different periods. It had attracted
the attention of government in the reign of Henry VIII., in the
thirty-third year of which a statute was enacted which adjudged
all witchcraft and sorcery to be punished as felony, without bene­
fit of clergy. This statute did not regard these crimes as impos
tures, but as real, supernatural, demoniacal gifts, and consequently
punishable. In the subsequent reign, Elizabeth, the queen, suf­
fered “ under excessive anguish by pains in her teeth,”* which
deprived her of rest, a circumstance which was attributed to the
sorcery of a Mrs. Dyer, who was accused of conjuration and
witchcraft on that account; indeed, the belief had infatuated all
ranks, and extended even to the clergy. Bishop Jewel, in a ser­
mon preached before the queen, in 1558, made use ofthe following
expressions: “ It may please your grace to understand that witches
and sorcerers, within these few last years, are marvelously in­
creased within your grace’s realm. Your grace’s subjects pine
away, even unto the death; their color fadeth, their flesh rotteth,
their speech is benumbed, their senses are bereft: I pray God
they never practice further upon the subject.”! Reginald Scott,
also, in his excellent work, entitled “ The Discoveries of Witch­
craft,” says, “ I have heard, to my greefe, some of the ministerie
affirme, that they have had in their parish, at one instant, xvii or
xviii witches; meaning such as could work miracles supernatur-
allie.”f Were we not accurately informed of the deep root, and
consequently firm hold, which the idea of the existence of witch­
craft had taken of the public mind at this period, the neglect of
Scott’s work, and that of Johannis Wierius, De Prastigiis Damo-
num, would greatly astonish us. Both of these valuable produc­
tions were intended to free the world from the infatuation which
had seized upon it; to prove the falsehood of the accusations, and
even of the confessions; and to shield the poor, the ignorant, and
the friendless aged from falling victims to the arm of murder,
t Ibid., vo\. i., p. 8.
Digitized by UooQle
PERSECUTIONS FOR SORCERY. 57
After such an example, it may be understood
how, in 1760, in one of the inland provinces of
Sweden,
* it required the authority and the courage
of the wife of a great personage to save twelve
families, under an accusation of witchcraft, from
the fury of the populace.
♦ This statute was not repealed till the 9th of George IL, 1736.
f Discoverie of Witchcraft, book iii., chap. L, p. 40.
j The act of ducking supposed witches in England has been practiced
more than once within the present century.
In 1774, in Germany, where philosophy is so
ardently cultivated, numerous disciples and follow­
ers of Gassner and Schrcepfer adopted their doc­
trines respecting miracles, exorcisms, magic, and
under the perverted name of justice, uplifted by terror and the
darkest superstition. Scott informs us, that the whole parish of
St. Osus, in Essex, consisting of “seventeene or eighteene, were
condemned at once.” On the accession of James to the English
throne, the superstition of that weak and absurd monarch, which
had been previously displayed hi his “ Demonologie,” published
at Edinburgh in 1597, brought forth a new statute against witches,
, which contains the following clause:—“ Any that shall use, prac­
tice, or exercise any invocation or conjuration of an evil! or wick­
ed spirit, or consult, covenant with, entertain, or employ, feed or
rewarde, any evill or wicked spirit, or to or for any intent or pur­
pose ; or take up any dead man, woman or child, out of his, her,
or their grave, or any other place where the dead body resteth,
or the skin, bone, or other part of any dead person, to be employed
or used in any manner of witchcraft, sorcery, charme, or enchant­
ment, whereby any person shall be killed, destroyed, wasted,
consumed, pined, or bound in his or her body, or any part thereof:
such offenders, duly and lawfully convicted and attainted, shall
suffer death.”* After such edicts as these, issuing from the high­
est authorities in the kingdom, can we wonder at the extension
of the credulity of the people respecting supernatural agency ; or
at their faith in the power of those who professed to do “ a deed
without a nameand who, as the silly monarch and royal author,
to whom we have referred, sayeth, “ gave their hand to the devil,
and promised to observe and keepe all the devil’s command­
ments.”! The early Christians were not only dupes to these de­
ceptions, but they preferred their assistance by means of prayers
and benedictions to obviate the influence of the demon; and thus
contributed to rivet the chains that already enslaved the human
mind in the darkest superstitions.!—Ed.
* En Dalecarlie.—Barbier, Dictionnaire Historique, p. 1195.
Digitized by C>ooQle
58 PERSECUTIONS FOR SORCERY.
theurgy.
* In 1785, in the canton of Lucerne, J.
Muller, the celebrated historian, and one of his
friends, while peaceably seated under a tree and
reading Tacitus aloud, were assailed by a troop of
peasants, who had been persuaded by some monks
that the strangers were sorcerers. They narrowly
escaped being massacred.! At the commencement
of the century several sharpers were condemned,
in France, for traversing the country and persuad­
ing the peasants that spells had been cast both on
their cattle and on themselves; and, not satisfied
with exacting payment for taking off the pretended
spells, they raised violent enmities, and occasioned
even murderous encounters, by pointing out the
authors of these pretended spells.
It was still a matter of serious argument, in the
schools of Rome, in the year 1810, as to whether
sorcerers were mad or possessed.$ They went
further in Paris, for, in 1817, works§ were there
published in which the existence of magic was
formally maintained; and in which the zeal of the
learned and virtuous, but mistaken men who for­
merly had caused sorcerers to be burned, was ap­
plauded. -
Let the upholders of such doctrines applaud
themselves; the doctrines are still dominant in
those distant countries where colonization has oft-
ener introduced the vices than the advanced knowl-
♦ Tiedmann, Qiuestione, cf-c., pp. 114,115.
t C. V. de Bonstetten, Pensues sur divers objets de bien public,
pp. 230-232.
t Guinan Laoureins, Tableau de Rome vers lafin de 1814, p. 228.
§ Les Precurseurs de I'Anti-Christ.—Les Superstitions et Presti­
ges des Philosophes. See Le Journal de Paris, 28 D4cembre, 1817.
The maladies to which our author alludes are the consequence
of malaria, arising from decomposing animal and vegetable mat­
ters. If such accusations as he mentions occur in the French
West-Indian Islands, they are happily unknown in the English.—
Ep.
Digitized by Google
PERSECUTIONS FOR SORCERY. 59
edge of Europe. The elevated and arid soil of
the American islands, is, in summer, a prey to
maladies which attack the horses and flocks, and
do not even spare men. It can not be doubted
that they arise from the noxious properties of the
stagnant water, which they are obliged to make
use of; as a proof of which the habitations, near a
running stream, invariably escape the scourge.
Far from recognizing this fact, the planters persist
in ascribing their losses to sorcery, practiced by
their slaves; and, consequently, the unlucky in­
dividuals on whom chance fixes the suspicion are
condemned to perish by torture.
*
But, to find examples of such horrible extrava­
gance, it is unnecessary to cross the ocean. In the
year 1617, in a country village of East Flanders, a
father murdered his daughter, who was only ten
years old, “ because,” he asserted, “ she was a sor­
ceress.” For a similar motive he intended the
same fate for his wife and sister.! It was pleaded
in excuse that he was insane. What awful insanity
was that which converted the husband and father
into an assassin ! How fearful the credulity that
led to such a delirium 1 Can we qualify the cul­
pability of those who awaken, or who dare to en­
courage it 1
In 1826, the town of Spire was much scandalized
by a circumstance that was more deplorable from
the character given to it by the position of those
with whom it originated, and from the moral con­
sequences which might have ensued. The bishop
of that town died at the age of eighty-two years,
and had bequeathed twenty thousand florins to its
cathedral. He was not buried in a chapel of his
church, as his predecessors had been; nor would
* I got this fact from an eye-witness.
t Le Journal de Pane, Jeudi, 3 Avril, 1817, p. 3.
Digitized by C>ooQle
60 PERSECUTIONS FOR SORCERY.
the clergy take part in his obsequies, because they
accused the venerable prelate of sorcery.
*
How can one, after this, be surprised at the
ignorant credulity of the multitude, with such an
example from their spiritual advisers 1
In the peninsula of Hela, near Dantzic, a woman
was accused by a charlatan of having cast a spell
over a sick person. She was seized, and tortured
several times in the course of two days ; twice they
tried to drown her; they ended by murdering her
with a knife, because she refused to acknowledge
herself to be a witch, and because she declared
herself incapable of curing the sick person.!
In France, also, justly proud of its enlighten­
ment, of its civilization, and the gentleness of its
manners, this error has been fruitful. A country­
woman of the neighborhood of Dax having fallen
ill, the friends who were with her were persuaded
by a quack that her illness was the result of a spell,
thrown upon her by one of her neighbors. The
peasants seized on the accused individual, and,
after violently beating her, thrust her into the flames
to compel her to dissolve the spell; there they
held her in spite of her cries, her screams, and
assertions of innocence, and at last drove her from
the house only when she was on the point of ex-
Pirin?-t
This crime, which was committed eleven years
ago, has lately been repeated in a village in the
department of Cher. The victim, who was ac­
cused of bewitching the cattle, will probably die,
owing to the atrocious treatment she has met with.§
It is true that justice will pursue her murderers,
♦ Le Constitutionnel du 15 Anut, 1826.
f Le National du 28 Aout, 1836.
t Le Constitutionnel du 26 Juillet, 1826.
$ Le National du 6 Novembre, 1836.
Digitized by tjOOQle
PERSECUTIONS FOR SORCERY. 61
and punish them ; but of what use is the condem­
nation of a few grossly ignorant peasants, while
the source of the evil remains unremoved ? Has
the time not yet passed for maintaining the opinion
that it is well for the people to remain in igno­
rance, and to believe whatever is told them with­
out examination I In the schools open to the
lower classes, can no one venture to expostulate,
or to forewarn and forearm them against the dan­
gers of a blind credulity 1 Even in the vicinity of
the capital, the country districts are infested with
books on witchcraft. I speak of what I have my­
selfwitnessed. One, among others recently printed,
particularly attracted my observation, from the ty­
pographical character, the whiteness of the paper,
the state of preservation, and the general neatness
of the volume, so uncommon in the rough hands
of a herdsman. With various absurdities, and ex­
tracts from conjuring books, less innocent recipes
were interspersed: for example, one for the com­
position of the waters of Death, a violent poison,
described as being capable of transmuting all metals
into gold; another for procuring early abortion;
and a third for a more active medicine, should the
mother have felt the infant move : so true it is, as
we have already observed, that lessons of crime
have been almost always mixed up with the absurd
fancies of sorcery!
Is this error, then, to be left to root itself out ?
Is it not rather the duty of the higher classes to
strive against the principles that lead to it, until
the progress of knowledge shall afford a guard to
men of simple and limited understanding ? Should
they not endeavor to save those who wildly believe
themselves to be endowed with supernatural power
from the consequences of this belief, and release
the credulous who, through fear of this power, are
Digitized by Google
62 INFLUENCE OF THE IMAGINATION.
tormented by anxieties equally formidable in their
issue, and ridiculous in their origin ? Or, is this a
mere speculative question of philosophy ? The
age is not long past since peaceable individuals
were dragged to punishment by a multitude agi­
tated by that excessive terror which is so much the
more difficult to cure because it has no real foun­
dation ; an age in which a single word, a vague
rumor, were sufficient to constitute the same person
at once an accuser, a judge, and an executioner.
Do not these superstitious terrors, which convert
man into a ferocious animal, place a powerful en­
gine in the hands of those whose interest it is to
excite him, whose aim is the subversion of order
and of government 1 Should the opinions I have
proffered affix upon me the charge of profaneness
from some fanatical hypocrites, I can only answer,
I am obeying my conscience in endeavoring to ex­
pose the shameful absurdity of a belief as contrary
to the best interests of society, as to all which true
piety teaches of the power, the wisdom, and the
goodness of God. .
CHAPTER III.
Influence of the Imagination, seconded by physical Accessories,
in producing an habitual Belief in marvelous Narrations, by
Music, by the Habit of exalting the Moral Faculties, by un­
founded Terror, and by Presentiments.—Sympathetic Emotions
increase the Effects of the Imagination.—Cures produced by
the Imagination.—Flights of the Imagination effected by Dis­
eases, Fastings, Watchings, and Mortifications.—Moral and
physical Remedies successfully opposed to these Flights of the
Imagination.
To the physical causes which involved pretend­
ed sorcerers in deplorable errors, was added an
auxiliary which alone is sufficient to produce the
evil—namely, Imagination.
Digitized by UooqIc
INFLUENCE OF THE IMAGINATION. 63
Such is its power, that some men have ascribed
to its wanderings the origin of all magical illusions;
but this is going too far. Imagination combines
the impressions it has received ; it does not create.
*
In the phantoms of sleep or the reveries of waking
hours, it presents nothing which has not either
been seen, or felt, or heard. Terror, melancholy,
uneasiness, or preoccupation of mind, easily produ­
ces that intermediate state between waking and
sleeping, in which dreams become actual visions.
Thus, proscribed by the triumvirs, Cassius Par-
mensis fell asleep, a prey to cares too well justified
by his position. A man of an alarming form ap­
peared to him, and told him he was his evil genius.
Accustomed to believe in the existence of super­
natural beings, Cassius had no doubt of the reality
of the apparition; and by superstitious minds such
♦ This definition of our author, although critically correct, yet
does not embody the idea generally entertained of imagination,
which may be truly said to create, inasmuch as it selects quali­
ties and circumstances from a great variety of different objects,
and, by recombining and disposing them differently, forms a new
creation peculiarly its own. It is true that its influence is chiefly
confined to objects of sight; and we must admit that “ we can
not, indeed,” as Addison remarks, “ have a single image in the
fancy that did not make its first entrance through the sight.”
Were we, therefore, capable of analyzing every illusion, we should
most probably be able to trace, at least, many of its components,
although perhaps not the whole, to objects which had previously
made a lively impression upon our sight. It admits of intellect­
ual combinations and the association of abstract ideas, without
which none of those conversations and reasonings that are carried
on in dreams would occur. This view of imagination, however,
does not weaken the position of our author; and there can be no
doubt that, in a mind not under the control which education be­
stows, dreams and the most extravagant illusions acquire a pow­
erful influence in regulating its affections and exciting its pas­
sions. Much depends on the physical condition and health of the
individual at the time; and to the state of the nervous system
may be ascribed the pleasurable or distressing nature of illusions,
whether the effect of simple revery or of dreaming: the influence
which they exert on our conduct, or apparently on our destiny,
depends much on the degree of superstitious credulity which
governs the individual.—Ed.
Digitized by UooQle
64 INFLUENCE OF THE IMAGINATION.
a vision is regarded as the certain warning of that
violent death which an outlaw can scarcely escape.
The same explanation may be applied to the
vision which appeared to Brutus, without intimi­
dating him, on the eve of the battle of Philippi;
and still more forcibly to the dream of the Emper­
or Julian
*
The night preceding his death, a genius seem­
ed to retire from him with an air of consternation.
He recognized in the specter the genius of the
empire, whose image might be seen in every thing
around him: reproduced upon the coin; rever­
enced by the soldiers upon the center of his stand­
ards ; and doubtless also placed in his tent. Un­
easy at the famine which afflicted his troops; cer­
tain that, even in the bosom of his army, a religion
opposed to his own faith raised up numerous ene­
mies, and perhaps assassins; on the eve of a deci­
sive battle; is it surprising that the enthusiastic
disciple of the theurgian philosophy, whose doc­
trine assigned so important an office to the genii,
should have seen such a vision in a perplexing
dream 1 Julian believed that he actually saw the
genius of the empire sad, and ready to abandon
him.
Let us take another example. An aged woman
was mourning for a brother whom she had just
lost: suddenly she thought she heard his voice,
which, by a blamable deception, was counterfeited
near her. Seized with fear, she declared that the
spirit of her brother had appeared to her radiant
with light. She would not have seen such a vision
if her memory had not, from her childhood, been
filled with stories of ghosts and apparitions.
These stories may be traced to the most ancient
times, and then they were not counterfeited. Let
* Ainmian. Marcell., lib. xxv.
Digitized by Google
INFLUENCE OF THE IMAGINATION. 65
us remember that in the sanctuaries, in the time of
Orpheus, they invoked the dead. Even in ancient
Judea these phantasmagorical apparitions abound­
ed, the first accounts of which were then neither
founded on dreams, nor upon the wandering of the
imagination, nor upon the desire of deceiving; the
individuals did actually see what they asserted
they had seen, and which, as they were constantly
stimulated by such narrations, or the recollection
of them, and overcome by sorrow yet full of curi­
osity, they both feared and desired to behold.
In the mountains of Scotland, and in some coun­
tries of Germany, the people still believe in the re­
ality of apparitions, which are said to be warnings
of an approaching death.
* One sees, distinct from
* Phantasmagoria, or Collection of Stories, translated from
the German (2 vols. 12mo., Paris, 1H12), vol. ii., pp. 126-142.
These apparitions are denominated “Wraiths,” or “ Taisch,”
which means simply visions ; and the persons beholding them
are called seers. They are generally prophetic of evil, but not
always; as births, marriages, and many other events, are said to
be foretold by these beholders of the shadows “ of coming events.”
In the Highlands of Scotland, at one period, they were generally
and firmly believed. Although many seers might be in the same
place or apartment, yet all of them did not see the same vision,
unless they touched each other, when it became common. The
gift was also inherent: it could not be taught; but Mr. Aubrey
aays it was taught in the isle of Skye.
Every Highlander believes that he has an attendant genius or
spirit, which is always present with him from the cradle to the
grave. This spirit is a counterpart of himself, in form, in dress,
and in every other respect; but, although thus peculiarly his at­
tendant, yet the spirit may be separated from him for a time, and
may perform acts, when distant from him, which his principal
shall execute at some future time. Thus, if the person is likely
to die, or to perform some act that may endanger life, his wraith
may appear to his distant friends, and thus communicate the sad
news, or anticipate the event. In a few words, the Highland
wraith is the simulacrum or imago of the ancient Romans. The
visions may be of the specter alone, who may be seen either by
the individual himself, or by his friends, or by strangers; but,
when the attendant genius appears to his principal, his back only
is seen : on other occasions the vision may consist of a number
of persons or things; for example, the whole ceremony of a fu­
neral or a marriage may be displayed.
IL E
Digitized by CjOOQle
66 INFLUENCE OF THE IMAGINATION.
one’s self, as it were, another self, a figure in every
respect resembling one’s own in form, features,
gesticulations, and attire. To produce a similar
The inhabitants of the Western Islands and of St. Kilda were
especially liable to be affected by these impressions. The appa­
ritions were generally exact resemblances of the individuals, in
person, in features, and in clothing. They attacked the indi­
viduals some months before they sickened of the disease of
which they died. A man on a sick bed was visited by a lady,
the wife of the clergyman of St. Kilda, and was asked by her
if at any time he had seen any resemblance of himself; he replied
in the affirmative, and told her that, to make further trial, as he
was going out of his house of a morning, he put on straw-rope
garters, instead of those he formerly used; and having gone to
the fields, his other self appeared in straw garters. The con­
clusion of the story is, that the sick man died of that ailment;
and the lady no longer questioned the truth of such presages.—
(Sir W. Scott, A Legend ofMontrose, chap, xvii., note Wraiths.)
In such cases, it is evident that the illusion was truly the re­
sult of imagination, operating under the influence of derangement
of the nerves, the body being already in a state of incipient dis­
ease. The uneasy sensations of approaching disease would
naturally awaken in a mind educated in the belief of such appa­
ritions, the idea of some impending evil, and imagination would
readily operate in completing the illusion.
It is also probable that, as the wraiths or apparitions of them­
selves, which are seen by these islanders, always appear in the
early morning, and in mountainous districts subject to fogs, they
may be the result of an optica! deception, such as occurs at the
Brocken, one of the Hertz or Harz Mountains, and occasionally
in Cumberland. St. Kilda is the most northern of the Hebrides,
and consists of an unequal mountainous ridge, the highest point
of which, Benochan, rises thirteen hundred and eighty feet above
the level of the sea; and, as in the Harz, the southwest wind,
which prevails, brings with it fogs. As many of our readers may
not be aware of the nature of the Specter of the Brocken, we
shall abridge the lucid account of it, from Gmelin,
* given by Sir
David Brewster.—[Letters on Natural Magic.) We may remark,
that this specter seems to have been observed at a very early
period, as the blocks of granite on the summit of the Brocken
are called the sorcerer’s chair and altar; a spring of pure water,
the magic fountain ; and the anemone, on its margin, the sor­
cerer’s flower—names which are presumed to have originated in
the rites of the great Saxon idol, Vortho, who was secretly wor­
shiped in the Brocken. This mountain was visited by Mr. Hane,
on the 23d of May, 1797. “The sun rose at four o’clock, am.,
through a serene atmosphere, which afterward became clouded
with vapors brought by a west wind. A quarter past four, Mr.
* (itittinffen. Journal tier Hri.tsensrhaften, 1798, vol. i., part Iii.
Digitized by Google
INFLUENCE OF THE IMAGINATION. 67
miracle is not beyond the resources of art. It will
be necessary, in the first place, to place a concave
mirror, or segment of a large-sized sphere, at the
back of a deep closet; and to dispose a lamp at
the top of the cabinet, in such a manner that its
light may not pass straight through, but, on the
contrary, fall with all its brilliancy upon the spot
where it will be necessary to place yourself, in or­
der to obtain the best possible effect from the mir­
ror. To this spot conduct, without his knowledge,
an uneducated man, one given to revery and the
terrors of mysticism; contrive that the folding­
doors of the closet shall suddenly open, and pre-
Hane, looking toward the southwest, observed at a great distance
a human figure of monstrous size. His hat having been nearly
carried away by a gust of wind, he suddenly raised his hand to
his head; the colossal figure did the same. He next bent his
body; the spectral figure repeated the action, and then vanished.
It soon, however, returned in another spot, and mimicked all his
gestures as before. He then called the landlord of the inn, when,
after a short time, two colossal figures appeared over the spot
•where the single figure had previously appeared. Retaining
their position, these two spectral figures were joined by a third ;
and all three mimicked the movements of the two spectators.
These specters appeared standing in the air.” Similar aerial
figures have been several times observed, among the hills sur­
rounding the lakes in Cumberland.
These spectral illusions, so admirably calculated to impress the
credulous with their supernatural origin, ‘‘are merely shadows
of the observer, projected on dense vapor or thin, fleecy clouds,
which have the power of reflecting much light.” They are most
frequently seen at sunrise, when the sun throws its rays horizon­
tally, when the shadow of the observer is thrown neither upward
nor downward. Sometimes, “ owing to the light reflected from
the vapors or clouds becoming fainter farther from the shadow,
the head of the observer appears surrounded with a halo;
* which
affords another reason for strengthening the belief in the reality
of the specter. The St. Kilda specter, with its straw garters, is
thus easily explained.” We refer our readers to Brewster’s little
volume, to which we are indebted for the above explanation
of the specter of the Brocken.
♦ Brewster, I, c., pp. 153, 154.
Time and superior education, however, will gradually expel
such superstitions: they have ceased to prevail even at St.
Kilda.—Ed.
Digitized by CjOOQle
68 INFLUENCE OF THE IMAGINATION.
sent to him the deceptive glass. He will see his
own image come forth from the depth of the dark­
ness, and advance toward him radiant with light ;
*
and in such a shape that he will think it possible
to take hold of it, but in advancing for that purpose
it will disappear. He can not explain this vision
naturally; he does not attempt it; he has seen it,
actually seen it; he can not forget it. The recol­
lection of it pursues him, besets him, and soon,
perhaps, his imagination becomes so excited that
the phenomenon is spontaneously reproduced with­
out the aid of the exterior cause.! The disorder
of the mind is communicated to the nerves. The
credulous man languishes, wastes away, and at
last dies. The records of his unhappy end sur­
vive him. Invalids, or people with a tendency to
disease, hearing the legend repeated, meditate upon
it; their reveries are impregnated by it; and they
end, at last, by seeing the vision which they have
heard related from their youth; and being per­
suaded that it is the forerunner of death, they die
of their own conviction.$
* “ I approached the closet; the two doors opened without
the least noise ; the light which I held in my hand was suddenly-
extinguished ; and, as if before a mirror, I saw my own image
advance from the closet; the light which it spread illuminating a
large portion of the apartment.”—Fantasmagoriana, tome ii., pp.
137, 138.
t This explanation is perfectly correct in reference to spectral
illusions within a house or a temple; but those of the second
sight seen in the morning, and in the open air, can only be ex­
plained as in the foregoing note.—Ed.
t No better explanation can be given of the fulfillment of the
prediction of these seers: death, when predicted, and the predic­
tion when believed will take place. Such creeds assimilate every
event to themselves; even the seer himself is the dupe of his
credulity, a circumstance less wonderful than the confessions
of witchcraft, or of the insane German werewolf, Peter Stump,
who murdered sixteen persons, from an idea that he was one
of the sorcerers termed werewolves, who, by means of an ointment
and girdle, were believe! to become real wolves; tearing to
Digitized by UooqIc
INFLUENCE OF THE IMAGINATION. 6'J
If such is still human credulity, can we suppose
that, in less enlightened times, the Thaumaturgists,
endowed with so many means of acting upon the
imagination, would have allowed so powerful an
instrument for extending the empire of the mar­
velous to have remained idle !
* Supported by
some real, but extraordinary facts, the recital of
prodigies and apparent miracles everywhere gov­
erned credulity; or rather it formed, as in the
present day, almost all the instruction allotted to
the vulgar, and prepared their eyes beforehand for
seeing every thing, their ears for hearing every
thing, and their minds for believing every thing.
Thus prepared, thus excited by some powerful
cause, where will the influence of imagination stop I
By turns it is terrible and seducing, but always
ready to confound us with unforeseen phenomena,
and intoxicate us by fantastic marvels; to suspend
or excite the action of our senses to the highest
possible degree; to withdraw the play of our or­
gans from the empire of our will, and the regular
course of nature ; to impress upon them emotions
and an unknown strength, or to render them rigid
and immovable; to excite the mind to folly, or
even to frenzy; at one time creating objects far
above the tameness of humanity, and at another
raising terrors more dangerous than the perils
which they represent: such are the flights, such
the freaks of the imagination ; and ruled, in its
turn, by the disorder fallen upon our physical func­
tions, it originates fresh errors, new fears, more
powerful deliriums and torments, until remedies
purely material, by curing the body, restore to the
pieces and devouring men, women, and children. This wretched
maniac was inhumanly tortured with red-hot pincers, and broken
on the wheel.—Eo.
* See vol. i., chap, xiii., upon the subject of the optical illu­
sions produced by the ancient Thaumaturgists.
Digitized by Croogle
70 INFLUENCE OF THE IMAGINATION.
mind that calm which the diseased condition of the
nervous system had taken from it.
What pretended miracles would not a skillful
Thaumaturgist work with a power susceptible of
such various application, and endowed with so
irresistible an influence 1 Let us not speak of
contracted minds only, or of men as ignorant and
weak as the unfortunate beings whose miseries we
have just retraced; let the strongest-minded man
suppose himself, unconsciously, exposed to every
cause which can act upon his imagination: will
he, we may inquire, dare to affirm that these in­
fluences will not operate upon him ; that his moral
strength will triumph, and that there shall be no
perturbation in his heart, no confusion in his
thoughts 1
The ancients were not ignorant of the advan­
tages which, under various relations, could be taken
of the influence of the imagination. This fascina­
ting and powerful agent explains an immense num­
ber of the wonders described in their histories.
Our path, however, is traced out, namely, to ren­
der these marvels credible, by opposing to them
analogous facts observed in modern times, facts in
which imposture has not been more suspected than
the intervention of a supernatural power.
No less calm than persevering in her mystic
reveries, the celebrated Madame de Guyon de­
clared to Bossuet, her accuser and judge, and also
related in her life,
* that she had received from
God such an abundance of grace that her body
could not bear it; and that it was necessary that
she should be unlaced and placed upon her bed,
in order that some other person should receive
from her the superabundance of the grace which
♦ Vie de Mme. de Guyon, ecrite par elle-m&me, tome ii,, chap,
xiii.-xxii.; tome iii., chap. i.
Digitized by Google
INFLUENCE OF THE IMAGINATION. 71
filled her. This communication, she asserted, was
effected in silence, and often upon the absent; and
could alone relieve her feeling of excess. The
Duke de Chevreuse, a man of serious and austere
manners, also affirmed to Bossuet that he had felt
this communication of grace when seated near
Madame de Guyon; and he ingenuously asked the
prelate if he did not experience a similar sensa­
tion.
* Entitled at once to ridicule, and equally to
compassion, these two persons were not very un­
like the prophets and pythonesses, who are de­
scribed to us as being so subjugated by the god
whose presence filled their whole being, as to be
forced to utter the oracles, which he himself placed
in their mouths, to be announced to the world.
Let the excitement increase, and man will fall
into a state of slavery capable of making him not
only believe in assumed miracles, but in his power
of working them, because it withdraws him as
much from the empire of reason as from that of
physical impressions. This ecstasy has attracted
the attention of physiologists, and provoked some
learned researches, the results of which will prob­
ably be confirmed by ulterior observations.
To examine it in this light would carry us too
far from our subject; we must, therefore, limit
ourselves to those facts immediately connected with
it. We are assured that the Hindoos can fall at
pleasure into ecstasy, a state to which the Kams-
chatdales, the Jakoutes, and natives of North and
South America are very prone. It has been ob­
served, that since the persecutions exercised by
Europeans in the formerly happy countries of
Tahiti and the Sandwich Islands, the imagination
of the followers of the ancient religion has been
* Burigny, Vie de Boeswrt (12mo., Paris, 1761), pp. 274, 275,
280.
Digitized by tjOOQle
72 INFLUENCE OF THE IMAGINATION.
much excited.
* This ecstasy, or trance, is in some
degree a benefit to an ignorant and superstitious
people; it gives them instantaneously the power
of forgetting their miseries, beneath the weight of
which they drag on a languishing existence. We
may, in this point of view, compare it to intoxica­
tion, to the heavy torpor produced by stupefying
drugs, which have been sometimes used by un­
happy beings to enable them to bear the agonies
of torture.! Volney attributed the extraordinary
courage exhibited in the midst of most frightful
torments by the natives of Northern America, to
the effects of a state bordering on ecstasy.J
* Ferdinand Denis, Tableau des Sciences Occultes, pp. 201-205.
t See chap, i., vol. ii.
t CEuvres completes de Volney, tome vii., pp. 443-450. The
Editor is of opinion, that this degree of insensibility to corporeal
suffering depends on directing the mind powerfully to some
object, or train of recollection, capable of abstracting it wholly
from the sensations produced upon the nervous system by extra­
neous impressions. It is well known that directing the mind to
the seat of disease will augment both the diseased action going
on in the part, and also increase to a degree of acute suffering
any pain previously felt in the part. Thus, independent of the
counter-irritation produced by a blister, much of its beneficial
influence arises from the attention being directed to a new seat
of pain. On this principle, Protestant martyrs, by concentrating
their thoughts on the eternal triumphs they are about to enjoy
for their constancy in their faith, have felt little or nothing unaer
the tortures of the Inquisition, or the consuming flames of the
stake.—Ed.
Ecstasy has, above all, the advantage of supply­
ing to the believer, all that the coldness of the tes­
timony has left defective in the descriptions of ce­
lestial happiness. Man being, by reason of his
weak nature, susceptible of prolonged pain and
short enjoyments, can much more easily imagine
the torments of the infernal regions than the joys
of heaven. This ecstasy does not describe these
pleasures, nor prove their future existence; it
causes them to be actually tasted. That the an­
Digitized by UooqIc
INFLUENCE OF THE IMAGINATION. 73
dents should have studied the cause and known
the power of this ecstatic fervor is hardly to be
doubted ;
* and if it was necessary to lead some ar­
dent imaginations by secondary agents, the Thau­
maturgists had at their control the pomp of cere­
monies, the splendor of illusions, the charm of pa­
geants, and the seductions of melody. Music alone
was sufficient to plunge many young and tender
souls into the most delicious illusions. It was
from that source that Chabanont twice in his youth
experienced feelings similar to the descriptions of
the ecstasies of the saints. “ Twice/’ said he,
“ when listening to the notes of the organ or to
sacred music, have I thought myself transported
into heaven; and this vision had something so real
in it, and I was so carried out of myself while it
lasted, that the actual presence of the objects could
not have had upon me a stronger effect.” Had
this young man, in less enlightened times, been
placed under the discipline of Thaumaturgists,
who were desirous of cultivating this inclination to
revery, the momentary ecstasy would have be­
come an actual durable vision, which he would no
more have doubted than his own existence, and
the truth of which he would have attested with all
the obstinacy of a convinced man, and all the en­
thusiasm of a martyr.
We have already spoken ofthe magical influence
of harmonious sounds.J We can also recall to re­
membrance how Alexander and Erick le Bon§ were
♦ Tertullian, De Ecstasi.
t Chabanon, Tableau de quelques Circonstances de ma Vie, <£c.—
(Euvres posthumes, pp. 10, 11. J Refer to chap, vii., vol. i.
§ Saxo-Grammat., Hist. Dan., lib. xii., pp. 204, 205. Erick le
Bon, or St. Erick, was a Swedish nobleman of the name of Ind-
wardun, connected by alliance with the royal families of Sweden
and Denmark. He was elected to the throne of Denmark in
1155. He marched against Finland, which he subdued, solely to
convert the inhabitants to the Christian faith ; and left the Bishop
Digitized by UooqIc
74 INFLUENCE OF THE IMAGINATION.
excited to a deadly anger by warlike songs. The
feeling experienced by these two heroes is still
produced upon soldiers when marching to battle
to the sound of warlike instruments.
Alone, without exterior aid, without physical
impressions, the imagination can warm itself to a
degree of fury, to the pitch of delirium.
To be convinced of this fact, it will be sufficient
to attempt upon ourselves a similar experiment;
and in disposing ourselves either for or against any
object occupying our thoughts, we shall be sur­
prised at the degree of anger or tender feeling to
which this voluntary illusion would soon lead us.
Let us ask ourselves whether it is not necessary
for the dramatic author to identify himself with the
impassioned character he personifies, in order to
portray the real expression of his feelings. Where
such is not the case, eloquence and poetry offer
him but insufficient resources; we perceive, at
once, that it is he, and not his hero, that speaks.
The actor, in his turn, can not succeed if he does
not actually become the character he represents,
as far at least as the theatrical regulations permit
him. The costume, the attendance, the presence,
and language of the personages whom he is to
struggle against or defend, second him in his illu­
sion ; he is moved, before he dreams of having ex­
cited our emotions ; his cries come from his heart;
his tears are often not feigned. What then would,
be the effect, if a personal interest, actually deep
and present, were to be attached to the passions
and sentiments he expressed? He would then
actually be what he assumes, and with more truth,
ofUpsal in the country to found churches, while he himself framed
a code of laws for them. He was killed by a party of Danes,
who had unexpectedly landed on the coast, under Prince Magnus,
in 1161. The fact mentioned in the text merely demonstrates the
highly excitable condition of his nervous system.—Ed.
Digitized by UooQle
INFLUENCE OF THE IMAGINATION. 75
perhaps, or at least more energy, than the person­
age whose transports he reanimates. Let us go
further, and freeing the impassioned being from the
restraint imposed by public observation, place him
in the situation in which I have several times ob­
served a young woman placed, who was endowed
with a powerful organization and a very excitable
and lively imagination. It would have been more
than imprudent to have confided to her the char­
acter of a heroine, chanting the song of war, and
precipitating herself armed upon the enemies of
her country. This single thought, a weapon of
which she might possess herself, some words, some
verses that she might recite, would suddenly intox­
icate her with fury strangely contrasting with her
gentle and amiable disposition. The most loved
being would not long have been safe from her
blows. This sudden and formidable excitement
inspires the belief that what has been related of the
Scandinavian heroes is perfectly credible. “ They
were seized, from time to time, with a fit of frenzy.
They foamed with rage, made no distinction of
persons, but struck at random, with their swards,
friends, enemies, trees, stones, animate and inani­
mate objects; they swallowed burning coals, and
threw themselves into the fire. When the fit was
at an end, they suffered long from extreme exhaus­
tion.”* If, as the author I have just quoted seems
to think, this was the effect of an intoxicating bev­
erage, the Sagas, which contain so many examples
of the fact, would sometimes have alluded to the
causes of it. I have no doubt that these furious
movements proceeded from the habitual state of
the imagination rendering it liable at times to an
excessive excitement. The peculiar sentiments of
* Depping, History of the Expeditions of the Normans, and their
Settlement in France in the tenth century, vol. i.» p. 46.
Digitized by C>ooQle
76 INFLUENCE OF THE IMAGINATION.
these warriors, who knew no happiness but that of
seeing the blood of their enemies or their own
blood flow, and whose paradise was open only to
heroes dying in battle, were quite sufficient to ex­
cite this transient frenzy: we are nearly as much
astonished that they were not continually a prey
to it.
*
Will not an excess of terror sometimes produce
the same delirium as an excess of courage 1 Why
not, if reason is equally disordered by both ? The
Samoyedes, says a traveler, are exceedingly sus­
ceptible of fear.t If they are unexpectedly touch­
ed, or if their minds are struck by some unforeseen
terrifying object, they lose the use of their reason,
and are seized with a maniacal fury. They arm
themselves with a knife, a stone, a club, or some
other weapon, and throw themselves upon the
person who has occasioned their surprise or fright;
and, if unable to satisfy their rage, they howl, and
roll upon the ground like an enraged animal. We
must here observe, that the original cause of these
peculiarities is the fear the Samoyedes entertain
of sorcerers; and the unhappy beings, tormented
by the delirium which is the result of it, are con­
sequently looked upon as sorcerers. What a fer­
tile mine for the exploits of a worker in miracles !
More generally fear places the weak man com­
pletely in the power of him who inspires him with
the passion. If, as many observers have thought,
fear is the real operating principle in all that has
been related of serpents and other animals charm­
ing the feeble bird they intend to make their prey,
* The same degree of wild enthusiastic fervor was lately wit­
nessed by a British officer, who was traveling in Algeria, at the
festival of a sect termed Arouates. The ceremonies consisted in
the most frantic exhibition of actions almost preternatural, but
evidently the result of a highly excited imagination.—Ed.
t Wagner, Memoirs of Russia, p. 207.
Digitized by UooQle
INFLUENCE OF THE IMAGINATION. 77
the look of a strong, threatening man ought to ex­
ercise a similar influence over weak minds ; nor
can they, in fact, withstand it. Their enchained
faculties leave them powerless, senseless, under
the influence of the charm. In the legends of
every country there is nothing more common than
the inevitable power which the fascinating glance
of a magician has exercised. This power is not
entirely chimerical; although mean or common in
its origin, yet it has an unbounded ascendency
over the timid imagination.
And does not, we may inquire, man himself con­
spire to aid such an ascendency, when, at the very
moment that he is attempting to fortify himself by
plausible reasonings, he spontaneously gives him­
self up to deadly terror 1 Without any exterior
circumstance to cause his folly, a weak mind (often
so on this point only) is filled with one fixed idea;
for example, that such or such an age will inevita­
bly lead to the end of life ! Such a disease must
terminate fatally ! How many of these vain pre­
sentiments have rendered inevitable the event
which seemed to justify them. They operate con­
tinually and destructively upon the weakened
nerves, which would have recovered their natural
vigor if they had not been influenced by these
mournful apprehensions.
If fear, instead of spontaneously rising in a soul
where reason can still struggle against it, should
be the result of a formidable power, the limits of
which we dare not assign, its effects will be no less
sure and terrible than those of steel and poison.
To prove this assertion, a recent example can be
joined to the testimony of all the facts offered to
us in ancient history. There exists in the Sand­
wich Isles a religious community pretending to a
power, obtained from heaven by the prayers ad­
Digitized by C>ooQle
78 INFLUENCE OF THE IMAGINATION.
dressed to it, of destroying every enemy they wish
to overcome. If any one incurs its hatred, they
announce to him that imprecations against him will
be commenced; and not unfrequently this declar­
ation is sufficient to cause the unfortunate individ­
ual exposed to their anathema to die of fright, or
to commit suicide.
*
The influence that sympathy and a propensity
to imitation! exercise upon the organs, is also felt
* Lisianski, Voyage round the World in 1803-1806.—Bibliotheque
Universelie, annee 1816.—lAtterature, tome iii., pp. 162, 163.
t A thousand instances might be brought forward to demon­
strate the influence of imitation. One of the most remarkable
was the dancing mania which prevailed all over Europe in the
fourteenth century, and which actually grew into a real epidemic.
It is only requisite to relate two or three instances of more recent
date in this kingdom. At a cotton manufactory, at Holden Bridge,
in Lancashire, a girl, on the 15th of February, 1787, put a mouse
into the bosom of another girl, who was thereby thrown into con­
vulsions, which lasted for twenty-four hours. On the following
day, six girls, who had witnessed these convulsions, were affected
in a similar manner, and on the 17th, six more. The alarm be­
came so great, that the whole work was stopped, under the idea
that some particular disease had been introduced in a bag of cot­
ton opened in the house. On the 18th three more, and on the
]9th eleven more girls were seized. Three of the whole number,
namely, twenty-four, lived two miles from the factory, and three
were at another factory at Clitheroe, about five miles off, but who
were strongly impressed with the idea of the plague, as the con­
vulsions were termed, being caught from the cotton. Dr. Sin­
clair relieved all the cases by electrifying the affected girls. The
convulsions were so strong as to require four or five persons to
hold the patients, and to prevent them from tearing their hair and
dashing their heads on the floor or on the walls.
*
Upward of a century ago, a woman in Shetland, laboring under
epilepsy, was attacked with paroxysms of the disease in the
church ; the result was, that many adult females and some chil­
dren became affected in a similar manner; and the disease has
continued to occur very frequently, ever since, during divine ser­
vice. When Dr. Hibbert visited the island of Unst, and was at­
tending the kirk of Baliasta, a female shriek was heard ; but the
person was carried out by the desire of the clergyman, who also
requested any woman who felt that she might be similarly affect­
ed to leave the church. Dr. Hibbert says, “On leaving the kirk,
♦ Gentleman's Mag., 1786, p. 268, quoted In Hecker’s Epidemics,
trans, hy D. Babhington, p. 141.
Digitized by C>ooQle
INFLtENCE OF THE IMAGINATION. 79
they k
itred. :?
;t him
lis dec-
e inifr-
f’rijb
tropes'
s also:;
. ifl
J w It
rcsi^-
.;rv?e i -
a. e?«-
n).ver'-
>nfc'
-st IIs
mi in- -
■erenfr-1
e sian'
ier
bar ®
ami M ■-'',
ale n®:f •
• t-'
■11W
*
:
a«lSt
*
. Pt-S
-iris.
:«s®-G
eiritf0
* Drarriplio-n nf the Shetland Islands, 4to.. p. 401-
sric?^
■ase s
*
-JW:-
iisiref
.m! «•'
*
ditaP
. '
*
. 1’
■irlrss--
jlheW-
Epi
* 1
upon the imagination like the contagious effects of
laughter, yawning, tears, depression, and enthusi­
asm. A widow who was affected with an hysteri­
cal melancholy, committed actions so strange that
she was supposed to be possessed with a demon.
It was not long before some young girls about her
were similarly attacked. They were cured as
soon as they were taken from her; and the widow
herself, under the treatment of an able physician,
recovered her reason with her health.
* How many
stories ofdemons could be reduced to as few words.
We should be wrong if we supposed there was
nothing but deception in the history of the convul­
sions of St. Medard.t and those of other people
who fell at once under the influence of the evil
spirit. The greatest number of these men were,
on the contrary, honest in intention, but necessi­
tated to this imitation from their excitable organ­
ization, weak minds, and heated imaginations.
The poets have probably not exaggerated in their
descriptions of the fury with which the Bacchants
were seized when celebrating their orgies. The
greater part of these Bacchants were more morally
than physically intoxicated. They only imitated
involuntarily the transports of some priestesses;
but whether the latter kept within the bounds of
and played an arranged part, or whether, placed
under the influence of the imagination, excited by
spirituous liquors, songs, instruments of music, and
the cries, and the mystic disorders that surrounded
I saw several females writhing and tossing about their arms, on
the green grass.”’—En.
* Fromann, De Fa«ci»ation<r, tf-c., p. 55.
t St. Medard was a native of Salency, in Picardy. He was
descended of a noble family, and flourished in the fifth and sixth
centuries. He was inaugurated Bishop of Noyon in 530, and died
in 561, not at a very advanced age.—En.
Digitized by kjOOQle
80 INFLUENCE OF THE IMAGINATION.
them, they were themselves the first to feel that all
which their example inspired in others may be
questioned.
The imagination is not always hurtful, for how
many unhoped-for, sudden, and prodigious cures
have been effected by it. Our medical books are
filled with facts of this nature, which among an
unenlightened people would easily pass for mira­
cles. It requires also some effort of reason to see
nothing but what is natural in these sudden effects
of the influence of imagination. Man is so accus­
tomed to look for the marvelous wherever the cause
does not strike upon him as forcibly and closely as
the effect.
*
* In the fourteenth century a disease appeared in Europe
which induced those afflicted with it to leap and dance. It was
called St. Vitus’s dance, from a firm-rooted belief that the shrine
of St. Vitus possessed the power of curing it; and, solely from
the influence of this belief on the mind, many were cured. The
legend whence this belief arose, taught that St. Vitus, before he
bent his neck to the sword, at his martyrdom, prayed that the
Deity would protect from the dancing mania all who should sol­
emnize the day of his commemoration, and fast on its eve;
whereupon a voice from heaven was heard saying, “ Vitus, thy
prayer is accepted.”
The cures effected by the royal touch, and the money (716,
see Excerpta Historica, p. 87, &c.) given to each person touched,
were due solely to the influence of confidence operating as a pow­
erful tonic on the animal system, laboring unoer the relaxation
on which scrofula chiefly depends; the anticipation also of benefit
caused an increase of nervous energy equivalent to that effected
by physical excitants. The celebrated Flamstead, the astrono­
mer, when a lad of nineteen, went into Ireland to be touched by a
celebrated empiric, named Greatracks, who cured his patients,
without medicines, “ by the stroke of his hand.” Flamstead says,
“he was eye-witness of several cures,” although he himself was
not benefited. (Bailey’s Life and Observations of Flamstead.) He
awaited, but did not anticipate the result.
A more impudent quack than Greatracks has seldom appeared ;
he flourished in the seventeenth century. The belief in his power
k’general, from the most highly born and educated, to the most ab-
lect and illiterate mendicant, all sacrificed at the altar of Credu­
lity, and relied on the healing touch of Greatracks. In a letter to
Lord Conway, who sent for him from Ireland on account of the
health of Lady Conway, this prince of impostors thus expresses
Digitized by Google
INFLUENCE OF THE IMAGINATION. 81
Animal magnetism, in which all the real phe­
nomena are produced by an excited imagination,
was first cried up by charlatans as a physical agent;
himself:—“ The virtuosi have been daily with me since I writ to
your honor last, and have given me large and full testimonials,
and God has been pleased to do wonderful things in their sight,
so that they are my hearty and good friends, and have stopped
the mouth of the court, where the sober party are now most of
them believers, and my champions. The king’s doctors, this day
(for the confirmation of their majesty’s belief), sent three out of
the hospital to me, who came on crutches; but, blessed be God !
they all went home well, to the admiration of all people, as well
as the doctors. Sir Heneage Finch says that I have made the
greatest faction and distraction between clergy and laymen that
any one has these thousand years.” Such was his boast; there
is retribution in this world as well as in the next; the reputa­
tion of Greatracks soon afterward declined as suddenly as it had
risen.
But we need not go to the seventeenth century for examples of
the power of imagination as a curative agent. In the early part
of the present century, a Miss Fancourt was cured of a spine com­
plaint, in answer to the prayers of a Mr. Greaves. She had been
ill eight years, and during the last two years had been confined to
her sofa. She was apparently cured ; she again walked; and the
only question was, how was the cure effected ? Dr. Jervis, a very
sensible physician, remarks, “ that her disease had probably been
some time previously subdued, and only wanted an extraordinary
stimulus to enable her to make use of her legs. Both my friends,
Mr. Travers and the late Mr. Parkinson, concurred in thinking
that there had been nothing in the illness or the recovery but what
might be accounted for by natural causes.” Mr. Travers, in a
letter on the subject, says—“ Credulity, the foible of a weakened,
though vivacious intellect, is the pioneer of an unqualified and
overweening confidence ; and thus prepared, the patient is in the
most hopeful state for the credit, as well as the craft, of the pre­
tender.” On the same principle are to be explained the cures
performed by the metallic tractors, mustard-seed, brandy and salt,
the prayers of Prince Hohenlohe, the embrocations of St. John
Long, the miracle performed by mesmerism on my talented friend
Miss Martineau, and a thousand cases in which hysteria played
a notable part, and which only required full confidence in the pre­
scriber to effect a complete cure.
The means employed as the remedial agents in these cases are
very varied; but they were all fully confided in by the patients;
and in that confidence lies the secret of their success. Music, as
in the dancing mania, has often performed wbnders. Democritus
affirms that diseases are capable of being cured by the sound of a
flute, when properly played. Asclepiades employed the trumpet
to cure sciatica; its continued sound, he affirmed, makes the
II. F
Digitized by UooQle
82 INFLUENCE OF THE IMAGINATION.
and has become in the hands of fanatics and im­
postors one branch of modern them gy.
*
When the imagination of an invalid has been
much struck by details of the efficacy of some
remedy which is naturally inefficacious, it may in
such a case become truly salutary. Thus, “ an
invalid may be relieved by magical ceremonies, if
he be convinced beforehand that they will effect
his cure.”! Have not these words of an ancient
physician been verified in the happy applications
of animal magnetism, Perkinism, the sympathetic
powder, and jugglings of the same kind, that both
in ancient and modern times have been seen by
turns to triumph or fall into contempt
fibers of the nerves to palpitate, and the pain vanishes. Even
the great Bacon believed in the power of charming away warts.
—Ed.
* The magnetic sleep, and the miraculous effects it produces,
were predicted by the enthusiast Swedenborg, in the year 1763,
when he said, “ Man may be raised to the celestial light even in
this world, if the bodily senses could be entombed in a lethargic
slumber,” &c. {Of Angelic Wisdom, p. 357.) This conclusion
belongs to the partisans of Swedenborg; but they hastened to
add, that we must not implicitly believe all that the sommloquists
or somnambulists have stated, that all is not good that is revealed:
they depend upon that verse of St. John’s 1st Epistle, chap, iv.,
v. 1, “ Believe not every spirit, but try the spirits, whether they
are of God.” They recommend, above all, no dependence upon
those somnambulists who would dispute with Swedenborg his
office of messenger of God, or who would speak against his doc­
trine. (Daillant Latouche, Abreg^ des Ouvrages de Swedenborg,
pp. 55, 58.
t De Incantations libellus (inter libros Galeno ascriptos), “ Quando
mens humana rem amat aliquam” &c.
t It would be well if they always fell into contempt; but
wherever ignorance and superstition enslave the mind, there cre­
dulity erects her temple. At so late a period as 1837, the Hon­
orable Robert Curzon, jun., traveling in the East, arrived at Na-
gadi, and had a conference with the bishop. In the midst of it, a
tall figure, with a heavy chain tied to his legs, entered the apart­
ment, waving a brazen censer in his hand, with which he made
an attack upon the party, and was with some difficulty secured
and carried off. “ He was the son of the bishop, and, being a ma­
niac, had been chained down before the altar of St. George—a sover­
eign remedy in these cases; only he pulled up the staples of his
Digitized by G - ogle
INFLUENCE OF THE IMAGINATION. 83
The imagination, although having so powerful
an effect upon our bodily organs, is in its turn sub­
jected to their deranging influence when disease
has disturbed the harmony of their functions.
Four hundred years before the Christian era,
Carthage was a prey to one of those endemics
which the ancients denominated plagues: agitated
by a frantic transport, the effect of the disease,
the greater part of the inhabitants flew to arms to
repulse an imaginary enemy, who they believed
hail penetrated into the city.
*
• Quarterly Review, vol. Ixxvii., p. 53.
The shipwrecked mariners of the Medusa, when
exhausted by fatigue, hunger, and affliction upon
the raft to which they had been so cruelly aban­
doned, experienced ecstatic illusions, the charm of
which contrasted frightfully with their desperate
situation.! In these two instances, the moral dis­
order may have been augmented by sympathy and
the propensity to imitation. But more recent and
individual instances are not wanting. The mother
of the regent, the Duke of Orleans, relates, in her
correspondence, an anecdote of a lady of her ac­
quaintance, which seems the height of absurdity,
yet has nothing improbable in it if we look upon it
as a vision produced, during the lying-in of a wom-
chain, and came away with the censer, before his cure was com­
pleted.”* Is it wonderful, indeed, that the deceptions of the As-
clepiades should have succeeded, when we observe charlatan­
ism flourishing and patronized by the aristocracy, and even by
the educated and learned, in our own times ? In the temples, du­
ring the influence of the Asclepiades in Greece, the patients slept
on goat-skins; and when they were supposed to be asleep, but
known to be kept awake by the novelty of their situation, a priest,
dressed as jEsculapius, accompanied by young girls, trained to
represent the daughters of the god, entered and delivered a solemn
medical opinion, which the result confirmed in proportion to the
credulity and intellectual imbecility of the hearers.—Ed.
* Diodod. Sic., lib. xv., cap. ix.
+ Relation du naufroge de la Meduse, 1st edit., pp. 72,73.
Digitized by Croogle
84 INFLUENCE OF THE IMAGINATION.
an, by the delirium accompanying the milk-fever.
*
A young man, victim to bad habits, had fallen into a
marasmus ;t he was tormented with phantoms, and
complained that he heard the sentence of his eter­
nal condemnation perpetually sounding in his ears.
General Thiebault, a man equally distinguished by
his mind and military talents, during the weakened
state which followed an inflammatory disease, was
attacked by visions, the more strange from the fact
of his enjoying undiminished reason, and that none
of his senses were altered. The fantastic objects,
nevertheless,which annoyed him, and which he knew
did not exist, struck so forcibly upon his sight, that it
was as easy for him to enumerate and describe them
as the real objects by which he was surrounded.^
* Memoires sur la Cour de Louis XIV., <fc., edit. 1823, pp. 74, 75.
t The patient was under the care of Dr. Marc in 1843.
t M. le Lieutenant-General Thiebault has permitted me to re­
late his case. Let us observe that similar hallucinations have
been experienced by very important persons. The learned G16-
ditsch, three hours after noon, clearly saw in a corner of the
Academy-hall, at Berlin, Maupertuis, who had died at Basle some
time before. He attributed this vision to a momentary derange­
ment of his organs; but in speaking of it, he affirmed that the
vision was as perfect as if Maupertuis had been placed living be­
fore him.—(D. Thiebault, Recollections of a Residence at Berlin,
vol. v., p. 21, 5th ed.) “The maternal grandfather of Bonnet,
when in perfect health, independent of all exterior impressions,
saw the figures of men, birds, and boats produced, moving, grow­
ing, decreasing, and disappearing. His reason could not have
been affected, as he was quite aware it was an illusion.”—(La­
place, Essai Philoxophique sur les Probability, pp. 224-226.)
§ Before consulting the oracle of Amphiaraus, at Oropas, m
We shall be little astonished to see how the
Thaumaturgists, in every country, debilitated the
corporeal organs in order to rule the imagination
more surely. Mortifications and fasts were an
essential part of the ancient initiation, to which it
was absolutely necessary to submit before receiving
the answer of several oracles, and above all, of
those which were revealed only in dreams.§*
*
*
§
Digitized by UooQle
INFLUENCE OF THE IMAGINATION. 85
We can not be ignorant how the disposition for,
and liability to see, phantoms, is increased by an
irritation of the visual organs, caused by long vigils
or by a steady contemplation of any luminous body,
particularly when the mind is disordered or the
body weakened. The principal trial to which the
Sannyasi (meditative Hindoos) are subjected, is
that of looking fixedly at the sun. It is not long
before they have visions, see sparks of fire, flaming
globes, meteors; the end of which is, not unfre-
quently, that they lose their sight, and even their
reason.
*
To these powerful auxiliaries, the strength of
which is increased by solitude and darkness, is
added an intoxication produced by the sacred food
and drinks; and thus, already a prey to beliefs, to
fears, and to superstitious hopes, and given up to
so many causes of excitement, how would it be
possible for any man, even the greatest master of
his reason, to defend his imagination from the
power of such superstitions! And without the
Boeotia, the votaries fasted a whole day, and received the answer
in a dream.—Philostrat., Vit. Apollon., lib. ii., cap. iv.
* Dubois, Mceurs et Institutions des Peuples de I’Inde, tome ii.,
pp. 271-274. The Sannyasi are Bramins of a very strict order,
who have renounced the society of wives and children, altogether
forsaken the world, and adopted the vow of mendicity, to subsist
solely upon alms. The duty of a member of this sect is to seek
solitude ; to subdue every passion ; to shun the slightest approach
to pleasure, or any earthly enjoyments; and to concentrate his
whole mind m meditation upon holy things, and, among others,
the constant perusal of the Veda. The penances to which he is
to subject himself are numerous, and truly ridiculous. Thus—he
is to slide backward and forward on the ground ; to stand a whole
day on tiptoe; to continue a whole day in motion, rising and sit­
ting alternately; to expose himself to hot fires in the warmest
weather; to look fixedly for hours upon the sun ; and to feed en­
tirely on roots and fruits. Such are the rules imposed on a San­
nyasi ; and such the idea of human perfection, which Superstition
has impressed on the minds of her Hindoo votaries. Under such
discipline, in addition to that mentioned in the text, it is not sur­
prising that visions should be seen and believed.—Ed.
Digitized by UooQle
8G INFLUENCE OF THE IMAGINATION.
assistance of other artifices, would not the union
of these means be sufficient to make a superstitious
man, shut up in a cavern without an opening, such
as has received the name of the Purgatory of St.
Patrick, believe that he was in an immense place,
surrounded by all those apparitions which the
monks of Ireland had beforehand promised to bis
terrified imagination ?
*
* Gerard Boate, Natural History of Ireland, pp. 137—141, of the
French translation.—Twiss, Travels in Ireland, pp. 128, 129.
t JSlian, Var. Hist, (quoted by Suidas), verb, ivaveiv—
'JepoypappaTelf.
Instructed by observation of the intimate con­
nection between every part of our being, the an­
cients well knew that the imagination could pro­
duce diseases apparently supernatural, which often
defied the art, and always the precautions of the
physician ; and that also, on the contrary, it could
effectually struggle against a really diseased state
of the organs, with a success equal to that effected
by physical remedies. They armed the imagina­
tion against physical evils, and forced it to be pro­
ductive of as much benefit as it sometimes was of
evil.
During the dog-days in Egypt, an epidemic dis­
ease, which is attributed to the influence of the
atmosphere, prevails. As a remedy for it, the
priests were accustomed, after solemn ceremonies
and sacrifices, to light numerous wood-piles with
fire taken from an altar dedicated to an ancient
deified sage.t This proceeding was no doubt use­
ful, as it increased the circulation of the air, and
tended to purify it; but fire taken from the do­
mestic hearth would have been as efficacious. In
this instance, therefore, they addressed themselves
also to the imagination. These religious -mum­
meries, and the sacred fire, tended to increase the
Digitized by tjOOQle
INFLUENCE OF THE IMAGINATION. 87
persuasion among the people, that a protecting
god would come to their-relief. The Roman peo­
ple were cut off in numbers by a pestilential dis­
ease, which would not yield to any known remedy:
the pontiffs, therefore, ordered, in the name of
Heaven, a celebration of the public games and
festivals.
* This remedy, which appears so strange
to us, was, nevertheless, found so efficacious, that
it was resorted to more than once. Let us suppose
that the endemic diseaset was of the nature of
those pestiferous fevers, which often resulted in
Italy, from the crowding together of a numerous
population in confined dwellings ; or from priva­
tions and fatigue ; and also from variations of the
temperature, to which the citizens were exposed
during their military expeditions. Under such cir­
cumstances, a general terror would be spread; it
would freeze every soul, and thereby add doubly
to the deadly power of the scourge. Were not
the games which kept the population in the open
air, and agreeably occupied the mind; the festivals,
or numerous sacrifices of animals, presenting means
of substituting a more substantial and wholesome
food, to that provided by habitual parsimony; and
the ceremonies which reassured the imagination,
and promised that the gods would throw a com­
passionate glance on their obedient worshipers,
sufficient to combat the progress, and accelerate
the disappearance, of the malignant contagion 1 To
prostrate the people before the altar, believing
that they owed to the gods their miraculous deliv­
erance, was a course frequently resorted to; and
when cures were effected, it was indeed a miracle
* Valer. Maxim., lib. ii., cap. ii., $ iv., a.u.c. 389.
t Endemic diseases are those that originate in some circum­
stance connected with the locality in which they appear: they
are not contagious —Ed.
Digitized by Google
88 INFLUENCE OF THE IMAGINATION.
in the sense of the ancients; an immediate, but
assuredly not a supernatural benefit from the gods.
We could recall to remembrance, without trou­
ble, innumerable examples of physical remedies
employed to cure supernatural diseases, as far, at
least, as we should continue to translate into modern
meaning the ancient expressions. As every bene­
fit was ascribed to the benevolence of the gods, so
were all evils supposed to emanate from their
vengeance, or from the malevolence of evil genii.
What ought we to recognize in the evils attributed
to this latter cause 1 Nervous infirmities, epilepsy,
hysteria, the symptoms of which were developed,
or at least increased, if not originated, by a disor­
dered imagination. Hellebore cured the daugh­
ters of Proteus of a madness with which the anger
of the gods had afflicted them. When the Sa­
moyedes are by terror thrown into a paroxysm of
frenzy which they regard as the effect of enchant­
ment, and as the characteristic sign of sorcery,
they are cured by having the hair of the reindeer
burned under their nostrils.
* The Hebrew exor­
cists ejected demons from the human body by the
smell of the smoke of the burning baaras-plant.
^Elian described this plant under the name cyno-
pastes; and Josephus attributed to it the power
of expelling demons and of curing epilepsy.t The
mode of treating these maladies did not differ great­
ly from that now employed. Like the Hebrews,
the Thaumaturgists of antiquity, the Samoyedes,
and those Magi who, two centuries ago, dared to
oppose medical art by their pretended magical
* Wagner, Recollections of Russia, p. 207. ~
t iElian. De Nat. Animal., lib. xiv., cap. xxvii. One of the sea
algse, which the same author compares to the cynospastos (ibid.,
cap. xxiv.), contained a very strong poison. It was perhaps this
last quality which induced the Thaumaturgists to reserve to
themselves the exclusive possession of it.
Digitized by UooQle
MEDICINE A PART OF OCCULT SCIENCE. 89
fascinations
* we also use fumigations and amrao-
niacal odors when fighting against diseases of the
nature of epilepsy, hysterics, hypochondriacism,
and those mournful results of a disordered imagi­
nation under which reason is prostrated. The
apparent miracle would disappear, if we were to
recall to mind that it was the custom of the ancients
to personify the principles of good and evil.
CHAPTER IV.
Medicine formed a Part of the Occult Science: it was not long
exercised by the Priests; Diseases were supposed to be sent
by Malevolent Genii, or the irritated Gods; the Cures were
considered Miracles, or Works of Magic.—Credulity and the
Spirit of Mystery attributed marvelous Properties to Inan­
imate Substances; and Charlatanism assisted this Species of
Deception.—Counterfeit Cures.—Extraordinary Abstinences.—
Nutritious Substances taken in an almost imperceptible Form.
—Apparent Resurrections.
Carried away hy our subject, we have already
entered the province of science in which promises
will always have the greatest power over the
imagination, namely, the science of the physician.
Medical science is, although it may be thwarted
by unforeseen anomalies, founded upon much posi­
tive knowledge. It has not, however, been able
to overcome the diseases of the intellect in a man­
ner equal to its influence over those of the body ;
neither has it placed us upon our guard against
those numerous secrets used by the Thaumatur­
gist to disarrange the play of our organs, to de­
ceive our senses, and to terrify our imaginations.
Although originating in the temples, and reveal­
ed as an emanation from the Divine Intelligence,
» See the indication of this medicine in Fromann, De Fiscina-
tume, pp. 955-yjd.
Digitized by C>ooQle
90 MEDICINE A PART OF OCCULT SCIENCE.
yet medicine did not infringe upon the province
of other sacred sciences. In treating of it, we
need not diverge from the empire of the wonder­
workers ; for, everywhere, cures were long esteem­
ed miracles, and physicians were regarded as
priests or as magicians.
*
Physicians, under some circumstances, were even
looked upon as gods. In Armenia,t under the
name of Thicks or Haralez, the gods were said to
revive those heroes who died in battle, by sucking
their wounds. Angitia,| the sister of Circe, estab­
lished herself in Italy only in order that she might
merit altars there, by applying Her salutary science
to the diseases that desolated that country. For­
merly in Greece, and even after the siege of Troy,
the sons of the gods and the heroes alone under­
stood the secrets of medicine and surgery ;§ and
even to a late period 2Esculapius, the son ofApollo,
was there worshiped as a deity. ||
* In the earliest periods of society the character of priest and
physician is always combined in the same person. The Payes of
Brazil are priests, exorcists, and physicians; they cure diseases
by sucking the affected part, and spitting into a pit, to return to
the earth the evil principle, which, they assert, is the cause of
disease. The Hebrew priests, according to the Mosaical account
of the Jews, were also physicians ; the Asclepiades, the priests of
jEsculapius, were the first physicians of the Greeks; and the
Druids those of the northern nations.
t Cirbied, Memoires sur 1'Armdn.ie.—Memoires de la Societe des
Antiquaires de France, tome ii., p. 304.
t Solin., cap. viii.
$ jElian, De Nat. Animal., lib. ii., cap. xviii. .
|| The original seat of the worship of ^Esculanius was at Epi-
daurus, where he had a splendid temple, adorned with a gold and
ivory statue of the god, who was represented sitting, one hand
holding a staff, the other resting on the head of a serpent, the
emblem of sagacity and longevity ; and a dog crouched at his feet.
This temple was frequented by harmless serpents, in the form of
which the god was supposed to manifest himself. He had, also,
temples at Rhodes, Cindos, Cos, and one on the banks of the
Tiber. According to Homer, his sons, Machaon and Podalirius,
treated wounds and external diseases only; and it is probable
that their father practiced in the same manner, as he is said to
Digitized by UooqIc
MEDICINE A PART OF OCCULT SCIENCE. 91
In Egypt theurgy divided among thirty-six genii,
inhabitants of the air, the care of the different parts
of the human body; and the priests practiced a
separate invocation for each genius, which they
used in order to obtain from them the cure of the
particular member confided to their care.
* It was
from Egypt also that the formularies which taught
the use of herbs in medicine originally came; and
these formularies were magical.! The magicians
of the islands of Sena cured invalids by others
deemed incurable.^ The Scandinavian virgins
were instructed, at the same time, in magic, medi­
cine, and the treatment of wounds.§ Diodorus,
who has often attempted to extricate history from
its medley of fables, looks upon the science of
Medea and Circe as natural, as a profound study
of all remedies and poisons; and he relates that
the former cured the son of Alcemenes of a furious
madness.H
For a long time after the age of Hercules and
the heroic times, invalids in Greece sought relief
from their sufferings from the descendants ofjEscu-
lapius in the temples ofthat god, which an enlight­
ened policy had raised on elevated spots and salu­
brious vicinities.^ Those men who pretended in
have invented the probe, and the bandaging of wounds. His
priests, the Asclepiades, practiced, however, incantations; and
cured diseases by leading their patients to believe that the god
himself delivered his prescriptions in dreams and visions; for
which impostures they were roughly satirized by Aristophanes in
his play of Plutus. It is probable that the preparations, consisting
of abstinence, tranquillity, and bathing, requisite for obtaining this
divine intercourse, and, above all, the confidence reposed in the
Asclepiades, were often productive of benefit.—Ed.
* Origen, Conte. Cels., lib. viii.
t Galen, De Simpl. Medicam. Facult., lib. vi., proem.
+ Pomponios Mela, lib. iii., cap. vi.
§ C. V. de Bonstetten, La Scandinavie et les Alpes, p. 32.
II Diod. Sic., lib. iv., cap. ii. et xvi.
T Plutarch, Qwest. Roman., if cliv.
Digitized by tjOOQle
92 MEDICINE A PART OF OCCULT SCIENCE.
right of their birth to hold the gift of curing, finally
learned the art of it, by preserving in the temples
the history of those diseases, the cure of which
had been sought from them.
* They then added
to their number disciples, whose discretion was
secured by the trial of a severe initiation. By
degrees, the progress of philosophy raised the mys­
terious veil behind which they would have still
concealed the science. Hippocrates at last placed
medicine on a real foundation, and taught its pre­
cepts in his immortal works. Its doctrines, till
then imprisoned in the archives of the Asclepiades,
were given entire to swell the patrimony of per­
fectible civilization. From this moment the priests
ought to have renounced their pretensions to the
healing art ;t but they were careful to prevent the
science from being entirely divested of its heavenly
* The temple of Cos was rich in votive offerings, which gener­
ally represented the parts of the body healed, and an account of
the method of cure adopted. From these singular clinical rec­
ords, Hippocrates is reported to have constructed his treatise on
Dietetics. It is a curious fact, that many similar votive offerings
of legs, arms, noses, &c., are hung up in the cathedral of Aix-la-
Chapelle, and some other continental churches, as records of
cures performed by the holy relics in those sacred edifices. The
crutches of the Countess Droste Vischering, also, are hung up in
the cathedral of Treves, in memory of the sudden and miraculous
cure of a contraction of the knee-joint, which had long withstood
all medical skill, by the mere sight of the seamless coat of our
Savior, before which she prostrated herself, and was instanta­
neously cured. But although the crutches attest the cure, and
the countess walked from the church to her carriage, merely
leaning on the arm of her grandmother, yet, like most other mi­
raculous cures, it was only a temporary alleviation ; and her
walking was an effort of sudden excitement, the result of muscu­
lar energy, produced by the confidence of obtaining relief from the
miraculous power of the holy coat. She became once more a
cripple. These facts display the melancholy truth, that many
pagan customs were engrafted on Christianity, and are still em­
ployed by the Church of Rome to delude the ignorant and super­
stitious, in order to support her powers.—Ed.
f Coray, Prolegom'enes of the French translation of Hippocrates'
treatise on air, water, and places
Digitized by UooqIc
MEDICINE A PART OF OCCULT SCIENCE. 03
and magical origin. The greater number of the
thermal waters, more frequently used then than in
the present day, remained consecrated to the gods,
to Apollo, to Aesculapius, and, above all, to Her­
cules, who was sumamed latricos, or the able
physician.
*
* Jintiq. Repertory, vol. ii., p. 79.
t Simpson, .Agreeable Historians, vol. ii., p. 622.
t Beauties of England (old edit.), vol. ii., p. 118.
$ Brompton and Script, 123.
j| Decern., Scriptures, 2417.
Those philosophers who never left the temples
incurred accusations of dealing in magic, when by
natural means they cured their fellow-beings of
the evils which desolated their abodes : this hap-
* The sacred character of healing springs is a relic of classi-
cal and Druidical superstition that still remains. In Fosbrooke’s
British Monarchism (477) we learn that, ‘‘on a spot, called Nell’s
Point, is a fine well, to which great numbers of women resort on
Holy Thursday, and, having washed their eyes in the spring, they
drop a pin into it. Once a-year, at St. Mardrin’s well, also, lame
persons went, on Corpus Christi evening, to lay some small offer­
ing on tbe altar, there to lie on the ground all night, drink of the
water there, and on the next morning to take a good draught more
of it, and carry away some of the water each in a bottle at their
departure.
* At Muswell Hill was formerly a chapel, called our
Lady of Muswell, from a well there, near which was her image ;
this well was continually resorted to by way of pilgrimage.! At
Walsingham a fine green road was made for the pilgrims, and
there was a holy well and cross adjacent, at which pilgrims used
to kneel while drinking the water.! It is remarkable that the
Anglo-Saxon laws had proscribed this as idolatrous.$ Such
springs were consecrated upon the discovery of the cures effected
by them.ll In fact,” Fosbrooke properly adds, “ these consecrated
wells merely imply a knowledge of the properties of mineral
waters, but, through ignorance, a religious appropriation of these
properties to supernatural causes.”
I may add to this record, that Holywell, in the county of Flint,
derives its name from the Holy Well of St. Winifred, over which
a chapel was erected by the Stanley family, in the reign of Henry
VII. The well was formerly in high repute as a medicinal spring.
Pennant says that, in his time, Lancashire pilgrims were to be
seen in deep devotion, standing in the water up to the chin for
hours, sending up prayers, and making a prescribed number of
turnings; and this excess of piety was carried so far, as in sev­
eral instances to cost the devotees their lives.—Ed.
Digitized by C>ooQle
94 MEDICINE A PART OF OCCULT SCIENCE.
pened to Empedocles. An endemic disease raged
in Selinuntia; Empedocles saw that it arose from
the hurtful vapors exhaled from the stagnant wa­
ters of a sluggish river; and to remedy the evil
he changed the course of two brooks, and by con­
ducting them into the bed of the river, he increased
the current of the waters; after which, as the river
ceased to be stagnant, it ceased to exhale the pes­
tilential miasma; and, consequently, the plague
disappeared.
*
* Diogen. Laert. in Empedod.
t Xiphilin in Adrian.
t Tatian, Assyr. Oral, ad Gracog, p. 157.
If, in the second century of our era, the Em­
peror Adrian succeeded in relieving himself for a
time from an aqueous congestion which swelled
his body,! it was said to have been effected by
some magic art. Tatian, a sincere defender of
Christianity, who lived about the same time, does
not deny the wonderful cures effected by the
priests of the temples of the Polytheists ; he only
attempts to explain them by supposing that the
pagan gods were actual demons, and that they in­
troduced disease into the body of a healthy man,
announcing to him, in a dream, that he should be
cured if he implored their assistance; and then,
by terminating the evil which they themselves had
produced, they obtained the glory of having worked
a miracle.^
These opinions were not peculiar to a civilized
people. Less enlightened nations have believed
that diseases were signs of the vengeance or the
malevolence of beings superior to humanity; con­
sequently, priests and magicians were everywhere
selected as physicians. Among the Nadoessis and
Chippeways the three titles of priest, physician,
and sorcerer, were inseparable, and they are so
Digitized by kjOOQle
MEDICINE A PART OF OCCULT SCIENCE. 95
still among the Osages.
* The priest-magicians
were the only physicians of Mexico.! In the
heart of the Galibis nations, the Paves are priests,
physicians, and magicians ; and they form a cor­
poration, the admission into which can only be
obtained by submitting to a very painful initiation.J
Christianity could not, in Asia and Europe, en­
tirely destroy the prejudices which had prevailed
under the reign of Polytheism. They reappeared
with renovated strength in the dark ages; when,
in spite of the antipathy which the Jews inspired
in the Christians, the Jsraebtes were almost the
only surgeons to princes and kings : and the re­
markable cures they effected seemed the results
of some mysterious influence. This opinion was
strengthened by the credulous concealment of their
prescriptions, which were probably borrowed from
the Arabians ; and they evidently were not un­
willing that their Christian adversaries should deem
them possessed of supernatural secrets. It was
not long before some of the indiscreet supporters
of Christianity brought forward miraculous cures
to oppose to the influence of the Jews. Like the
ancient temples, many of the Christian churches
displayed within their walls holy springs, the waters
of which were reputed to possess great healing
virtues. The belief of the Christians in their heal­
ing powers partly originated from a sincere confi­
dence in their adopted faith, and partly from failure
of any other resource. It may, however, have
been a legacy of Paganism, hastily accepted by
men, who would rather sanctify an error than al­
low confidence to exist in a proscribed religion.
* Carver, Travels in North America, p. 290.
t Joseph Acosta, Natural History of the Indies, book v.f chap,
xxvi.
t Noel, Dictionnaire de la Fable, art. Payes,
Digitized by tjOOQle
96 MEDICINE A PART OF OCCULT SCIENCE.
Whatever might be the reason, when these healing
springs were resorted to, the sick could derive no
benefit from them unless they submitted to the
regulations of the priests. The diseases some­
times yielded to the regimen, to time, and to the
calm that hope and a pious confidence, aided by
the imagination, produced; sometimes, however,
they resisted their influence, but the failures were
attributed to the sins and the want of faith in the
patient: hence the miraculous virtue which was
proved by cures in some cases was not, therefore,
nullified by the failures in others.
.The institutions were conformable to the opinion
that all cures were effected by the direct interposi­
tion of the divinity ; and they long survived it.
The Christian physicians who, in conjunction with
the Arabians and the Israelites began to spring up,
formed part of the clergy, long after the idea of
any thing supernatural in their art had exploded.
“ The professors of medicine,” says Et. Pasquier,
“ were formerly all clerks ; and it was not till the
year 1542 that the legate in France gave them
permission to marry.”* Toward the same time
* Tiedmann, De Quaetlane, S-e., p. 122.
• El. Pasquier, Recherches de la France, liv. iii., chap. xxix.—
Until this period, the lour instructing faculties of the university
were condemned to celibacy. In 1552, the doctors in law ob­
tained, like the physicians, the permission to marry. But it was
long after the first dignities in this faculty were accorded to the
canons and priests. In many of the Protestant cantons of
Switzerland, in the present day, it is necessary, before being
promoted to the chair of the public establishments, to give proof
of theological talent. The pretext for this arrangement was,
that these establishments had been endowed at the expense
of the ancient religious foundations. This motive would not,
however, have been decisive without the established prejudice
that the instructing body should belong to the church and the
sacerdotal corporation.
*
Richard Fitz-Nigel, who died Bishop of London, a.d. 1198, had
been apothecary to Henry II. The celebrated Roger Bacon,
who flourished in the thirteenth century, although a monk, yet
Digitized by C>ooQle
MEDICINE A PART OF OCCULT SCIENCE. 97
Paracelsus, who, during his travels in Africa and
the East had acquired secrets which secured him
great superiority over his competitors, renewed
the example which had beeu given by Raymond
Lully and other adepts, and presented himself as
instructed and inspired by a divinity.
* Had his
life been prolonged and his conduct less light, who
would have dared to say that there might not have
been found a public credulous enough to have rec­
ognized his assumptions It
The habit of associating a supernatural power to
the natural action of remedies, particularly those
practiced medicine. Nicolas de Farnham, a physician to Henry
HL, was created Bishop of Durham; and many other doctors
of medicine were at various times elevated to ecclesiastical dig­
nities.—Ed.
♦ Tiedmann, De Quastione, <fc., p. 113,
t The birth-place of Paracelsus is not accurately known, but
it is supposed to have been Einsiedeln, in the canton of Schwyz.
He was born in 1493. He was the son of a physician, who in­
structed him in alchemy and astrology, as well as medicine. He
displayed early an ardent desire for knowledge; not such, how­
ever, as is derived from books, but such as he could pick up
wherever it could be procured, without being very difficult of ac­
quirement, or without much nicety being shown as to the source
whence it came. For this purpose he traveled over the greater
part of Europe, and also into Africa and Asia. He was chosen
professor of medicine at Basil in 1526; and at his first lecture he
publicly burned the works of Celsus and Avicenna, asserting that
they were useless lumber. He was a man of the most irreligious
character and immoral habits, a glutton and a drunkard; and in
falsehood, vanity, and arrogance, unequaled. He pretended to
possess the philosopher’s stone, asserted that he imprisoned a
demon in the pummel of his sword, and that he had discovered
the elixir of life. His medical writings are specimens of credu­
lity and imposture. He was a believer in magic, and boasted
of having conversed with Avicenna, in the vestibule of the in­
fernal regions. He had, however, the merit of introducing into
medicine the use of mercurials, and several metallic remedies,
and greatly improved pharmaceutical chemistry. He left Basil
in less than a year after his appointment; and, after having
undergone many hardships and vicissitudes, he died in great
poverty at Salzburg, in the Tyrol, in 1541, in the forty-eighth
year of his age, giving the lie to the impudent boast of his pos­
sessing the elixir of life and the philosopher’s stone.—Ed.
II. G
Digitized by Google
88 MEDICINE A PART OF OCCULT SCIENCE.
which were kept secret, has been preserved to the
present day. The best physicians have proved
that the only effectual remedy against the bite of
a rabid animal is cauterization of the wound with
a red-hot iron : and this remedy has been employ­
ed for many centuries in Tuscany, and also in
some provinces of France. But in the former
place, the iron which they heat is one of the nails
of the true cross ;
* and in the French provinces it
is the key of St. Hubert,! which is, however, only
useful in the hands of those persons who can trace
the illustriousness of their genealogy to this noble
saint. It is thus a kind of heir-loom or hereditary
possession, similar to that assumed by the Psylli
and the Marses, and the descendants of JEscula-
pius.
’ We must again repeat what we have so often
before stated, that it was originally rather a feeling
of pious gratitude than a spirit of deception, which
united the idea of an inspiration and the gift of the
divinity to the recipes and salutary operations of
medical science. Upon the banks of the river
Anigrus was a grotto dedicated to the nymphs.
There resorted persons afflicted with herpes, who,
after prayers and a previous friction, swam across
the river, and by the favor of the nymphs were
cured. Pausanias,| who relates this apparent mir­
acle, adds that the waters of the Anigrus exhaled
a fetid odor; that is to say, they were charged
with sulphureted hydrogen gas, and were, there-
* Lullin-ChAteauvieux. Lettres ecrites d’Italie, tome L, p. 129.
t Particularly in the village of La Saussotte, near Villeneuve,
department of the Aube. At the abbey of St. Hubert, in the
diocese of Liege, the intercession of the saint is alone sufficient
to effect the cure, provided it is seconded by some religious cere­
monies, and a diet which will reassure the imagination.—Voyage
Litteraire de D. Martenne et de D. Durand, part second, Paris,
1724, pp. 145-147.
t Pausanias, Eliar., lib. i., cap. v.
Digitized by kjOOQle
MEDICINE A PART OF OCCULT SCIENCE. 99
fore, antiherpetic. Our physicians succeed in cur­
ing it by means of the same agent, without the
ceremonies, and without speaking of miracles.
But the ancient teachers and the rulers of the
people were often obliged to speak of and sanction
salutary precepts, through the illusion of the mar­
velous, whether necessary to overcome, as in Es-
thonia and Livonia, the apathy of men stupefied
by slavery and misery, by commanding them, in
the name of the gods, to combat the epizootics,
which in their ignorance they deemed the effect of
sorcery, by fumigating their stables with asafoet-
ida;
* or whether, in the midst of a society rich
and abandoned to pleasure, they attributed to a
particular stone the property of preserving the pu­
rity of the voice, provided the singer, who would
profit by its salutary virtue, lived in chastity.!
The pride and interest attached to exclusive pos­
session involved the concealment of the secrets
which were valuable enough to be preserved un­
der a supernatural veil.J Juno recovered her vir­
ginity every year by bathing in the fountain of
Canathos^ and it is said that the women of the
Argolides bathed there with the same hope. It is
certain, however, that the Argians, in relating the
prodigy, mention that, in order to be relied upon,
some occult ceremonies practiced in the worship
of Juno|| were requisite. According to tradition,
* Debray, Sur les Prejuges et les Idees Superstitieuses des Livo-
niens, Lettoniens, et Eslhoniens.—Nouvelles Annates des Voyages,
tome xviii., p. 3. t Solin., cap. xl.
X This is very natural, at a period when the whole of the art
of Curing disease was supposed to depend on the possession of
such secrets. The sick, on this account, were earned on biers,
and exposed on the highways, for the inspection of the passers­
by, and to obtain from them prescriptions.—Ed.
§ A fountain ofNauplia.—Ed.
11 Pausanias, Corinthiac., cap. xxxviii.—Noel, Dictionnaire de In
Fable, art. Canathos.
5l)4b'.2
100 MEDICINE A PART OF OCCULT SCIENCE.
the goddess, immediately after her nuptials, bathed
in an Assyrian fountain, the waters of which imme­
diately contracted a very delightful odor.
* Does
not this last trait denote that both in Syria and
Greece the property which had caused the myrtle
to be dedicated to the goddess of love, and used
by women to repair the exhaustion of child bearing,
was known tt
* iElian, De Nat. Animal., lib. xii., cap. xxx. The Greeks pre­
tended to recognize Juno (Hera) in the goddess of Assyria, the
celestial virgin spouse of the sun, who, at the period when Gem­
ini make the equinox of the spring, was every year found a vir­
gin by her husband, when the summer solstice led him again to
her.
t Rabelais (livre i., chap, xliv.) puts for this reason abundance
of myrtle-water in the baths of the ladies of the abbey of Th6-
teme. For myrtle-water, in the first editions, published during
the life of the author, the reimpressions have erroneously substi­
tuted water of myrrh.
t Dictionnaire de Furetiere, art. Scorsonere. Plants were valu­
able as remedies only when collected under the influence of cer­
tain planets; they were also required to be collected on certain
But we are informed, that the priest administer­
ed the beneficial effects with mysterious ceremo­
nies only, offering them as a miracle resulting from
these ceremonies.
The books of the ancients are inexhaustible on
the healing and magical properties of plants. The
greater number have, no doubt, originated in the
love of the marvelous; and many have obtained
reputation from no greater reason than an inaccu­
rate translation of the name of the plant. We must
nevertheless observe, that modern writers have not
been more reasonable upon this subject than the
ancients. The herb scorzonera, for instance, de­
rived its name from the exterior color of its stalk,
scorzo nero. It is quite evident that this name has
been taken from scurzo, the Spanish for viper; and
the scorzonera, from that circumstance, is regarded
as a powerful antidote for the bite of the viper.f
Digitized by UooQle
MEDICINE A PART OF OCCULT SCIENCE. 101
Charlatanism, in short, in order’to conceal from
view the action of natural agents, in medicines as
in other branches of the occult sciences, attributed
a magical efficacy to points of an insignificant na­
ture. An adept, quoted by Fromann,
* pointed out
a remedy for consumption and the sweating sick­
ness, which was in itself simple enough, but was
not to be prepared with common fire. A saw was
to be manufactured from an apple-tree struck by
lightning, and was to be used to saw the wood of
the threshold of a door through which many people
had passed, until the continued friction of the in­
strument upon the wood had produced a flame.f
The extravagance of the proceeding inspired a
pious confidence in those who resorted to the rem­
edy, and the difficulty of executing it well secured,
beforehand, in case of failure, the infallibility of
the medicine. This instance is one of the strongest
that can be cited, but it recalls millions of others.
To cure dislocations, and displacements of the
thigh-bone, Cato| prescribes the application of
splinters, so disposed as to replace and support the
injured member in its natural position. He then
points out some words which are to be used during
the operation. These unintelligible words were
possibly nothing more than the same direction ex­
pressed in another language: expressions upon
which, though no longer understood, the magical
efficacy of bandaging was supposed to depend.
The sacred words may, in a similar case, have
been a prayer by which the use of any natural
Temedy was accompanied, and to which the Sun­
days. This superstition, indeed, was upheld until the seventeenth
century ; and directions were given for collecting the plants, in
file Herbals of Turner, Culpepper, and Lovel.—Ed.
* Fromann, Tract, de Fascinatione, pp. 953-964.
t Ibid., pp. 363, 364.
t Cato, ]Je Re Ruetica, cap. clx.
Digitized by UooqIc
102 MEDICINE A PART OF OCCULT SCIENCE.
cess was thought to be due. Men who pretended
to be endowed with secret powers taught that it
was possible to stop a hemorrhage from the nose
by repeating an Ave or a Pater^ provided that, at
the same time, the nostrils were compressed with
the fingers,
* and linen steeped in cold water ap­
plied to the head. More frequently the pretended
miracle originated in the care which the Thauma­
turgists took to make an inert substance the mask
of an efficacious medicine.
The Kicahans, subjects of the Burmese, and who
appear to have been driven by them to the moun­
tains of Assam, go out after every storm in search
of aerolites, and if they find any, transmit them to
their priest, who preserves them as remedies sent
by heaven for the cure of every disease.!
The miraculous powers of the bezoars,^ experi­
enced and celebrated in Asia, for some time found
* Fromann, Tract, de Fascinatione (4to., 1675), lib. i., cap. xxix.
t Nouvelles Annates des Voyages, 2d series, vol. iii., p. 229. The
Parthian Magi carefully seek a stone which is only to be found in
places struck by thunder. They doubtless attribute great virtues
to it.—Plin., Hist. j\Tat., lib. xxxvii., cap. ix.
t The bezoar is a concretion found in the intestines of the stag,
and sometimes of the goat. It was formerly supposed to have
the power, not only of curing diseases, but also of driving out poi­
sons, whence the name, from the Persian words Pdd-zahr, “ ex­
pelling poison pad meaning to remove or cure, and zahr poison.
The Hindoos and Persians have still great confidence in its cura­
tive powers, especially that one which is formed in the stomach
of the caprea acyagros, the wild goat of Persia, which is sold for
its weight in gold. The bezoar was, at one time, in as high esti­
mation in Europe as in the East; and its value as a remedy was
enhanced by the marvelous manner in which it was supposed to
be produced. “ When the hart is sick,” says Garner, “ and hath
eaten many serpents for his recoverie, he is brought unto so great
a heate, that he hasteth to the water, and there covereth his body
unto the very ears and eyes, at which distilleth many tearesfroni
which the stone (the bezoar) is gendered.” Bezoars consist al­
most entirely of phosphate of lime ; and, as curative agents, afford
an addition to the many thousand proofs of the influence of mind
over the body, and how truly efficacious imagination may prove
in removing disease.—Ed.
Digitized by UooQle
MEDICINE A PART OF OCCULT SCIENCE. 103
credence in Europe; yet these bezoars have no
more effect than the aerolites upon the nervous sys­
tem, and could only be used like the latter to dis­
guise the use of more active substances.
A Greek inscription,
* which we believe must
have been anciently placed in the temple of zEs-
culapius at Rome, and which perpetuates four
cures effected by that god, presents us with four
examples of the different ways in which credulity
lends itself to the marvelous. There is nothing
surprising in stopping a hsemoptyses, spitting of
blood, by the use of sweet kernels and honey,t nor
even in the oracle that ordered it. But when the
god, in order to cure a pain in the side, prescribed
a topical application, the principal ingredient of
which was to be the cinders collected from his
altar, it is easy to conjecture' that his priests min­
gled some drug with those cinders. If a salve, in
which the blood of a white, cock was added to
honey, produced beneficial results, we may be per­
mitted to think that the color of the bird was only
of use to veil in mystery the composition of the
remedy. A blind man, after some genuflections,
placed the hand that had been extended upon the
altar over his eyes, and suddenly recovered his
sight. He had never lost it; and he probably ex­
ecuted this juggling at some critical moment, when
it was of importance to revive the declining repu­
tation of zEsculapius and his temple.
* J, Grater, Corp. Inscript., folio, Amstelodarni, 1707, p. 71,
insc, 1.
t Under the term sweet kernels is meant the bitter almond, or
the kernels of the peach, both of which, when they are moistened,
evolve hydrocyanic acid, which, operating as a powerful sedative,
would arrest the How of blood. The honey, which is an excitant,
was a bad addition—Ed.
We could compile whole volumes with similar
impostures. Worn by the sufferings of an incura-
Digitized by Cjoogle
104 MEDICINE A PART OF OCCULT SCIENCE.
ble disease, Adrian invoked death, and it was
feared he would have recourse to suicide: a wom­
an appeared, who declared that she had received
in a dream an order to assure the emperor he
should soon be cured. Not having obeyed this
order at first, she lost her sight; but, being warned
by a second dream, she fulfilled her mission, and
her eyes immediately reopened to the light.
* But
although Adrian died some months afterward, the
witnesses of this trick were not the less disposed
to believe in every other assumed miracle set be­
fore them.
The greatest of all prodigies to reasonable minds
is, in my opinion, the belief in assumed miracles by
the very men who have unmasked and unveiled the
falsehood of such miracles. And, by a remarkable
singularity, the superstitious man and the philoso­
pher may each, in his own way, profit by a prodigy
often repeated. The one sees in it a proof of the
truth of his assertions, and the effects of the gifts
of heaven, which display themselves in overcoming
human reason; the other, finding this contradiction
everywhere, maintains that it proves nothing, since,
if it was applied to one real belief, it would allow
a hundred false ones to triumph : and that its only
principle is, therefore, the facility with which the
human race ever abandon themselves to those who
attempt to deceive them.
Credulity is, in fact, the disease of every age and
of every country. The haunts of those mendicants
who deceive the public by obtaining their sympathy
for the most deplorable deceptive infirmities, were
formerly called in Paris Cours des Miracles, be­
cause, on entering those quarters of the city, these
wretches deposited the costumes of the different
parts they acted. At once the blind saw, and the
* ./Elian, Spartian, in Adrian.
Digitized by UooQle
MEDICINE A PART OF OCCULT SCIENCE. 105
cripple recovered the use of his limbs. Nearly a
dozen of these “ courts” exist in the French capi­
tal ; and it is lamentable to add, that their inhabi­
tants are sometimes employed by the priests and
monks to give an authority to their relics, by
vouching for the miraculous cures which these
pretended invalids receive from their touch.
* The
name Cours des Miracles^ having become popular,
proves that no one was ignorant of the impostures
which were every day enacted there, and yet, dai­
ly, these sharpers find dupes; and with a perfect
knowledge of this habitual deception, supernatural
cures are still believed.
Obstinate and ingenious in deceiving herself,
Credulity is found intrenched behind well attested
wonders, that have not been denied by experience.
This is very well 1 but let science take from these
marvels what belongs to itself, it will quickly aid
the honest man in detecting that which appertains
to imposture.
It is not by opposing to the boasts of the char­
latan an immense number of proofs of his errors,
however credible, but it is by demonstrating that
these marvels may have occurred in the order of
nature, that we can cherish any hope of curing
mankind of an infatuation which has already cost
him very dear.
When we hear accounts ofthose miraculous fasts,
which men of superior intellect have endured for
days and for weeks, we are tempted to class them
* When Louis XI. was ill, he sent for the holy man of Calabria,
and fell upon his knees before him, begging that his life might be
prolonged. The holy vial was sent to him. and St. Peter’s vest
from Rome; but, alas! both confidence and faith were of no avail
in this case. “ The monarch,” says Comines, “ could command
the beggar’s knee, but not the health of it.”—En.
t Sauval, Antiquiles de Paris, tome i., pp. 510-515, quoted by
Dulaure, Physical, Civil, and Moral History of Paris. (1821, vol.
iv., pp. 589-596.)
Digitized by tjOOQle
106 MEDICINE A PAET OF OCCULT SCIENCE.
with the Oriental tales,
* in which similar inconceiv­
able abstinences figure. But as these narrations
are so numerous, can we attribute them wholly to
a desire to deceive, and affirm that they are alto­
gether without foundation 1
* Les Millset tin Nuits, nuits 137 et 138.
t J. Acosta, Natural History of the Indies, <fc., book iv., chap,
xxii. Opium has the same power of allaying the sensation of
hunger. The Turkish courier, who performs long and fatiguing
journeys without rest, on horseback, provides himself with a small
nag of opium lozenges, Mash-Allah; and, when greatly fatigued,
he alights, opens his bag, takes a lozenge himself, and having also
given two to his horse, remounts, and proceeds with as much
alacrity as when he set out; both horse and man are refreshed,
and the sensation of hunger is subdued.—Ed.
t Matthiolus, Commentar. in Dioscorid.—Epistol. Nuncupator.
(; This opinion of our author is not very tenable; and, although
the period is much exaggerated, yet, it is not inconsistent with
experience, that the sensation of hunger may be destroyed, and
life sustained, by some description of herbs.—Ed,
Let us first of all remark that certain substances
possess, or have attributed to them, the property
of suspending the sensations of hunger and of
thirst. Such, for instance, as the leaves of the
tobacco plant, and the leaves of the cocoa (a Pe­
ruvian plant). People have gone so far as to say
that, if either of these plants be held in the mouth
by a man who has worked all day without eating,
they will prevent him from suffering from hunger.t
Matthiolusj: attributes to the Scythians the use
of an herb agreeable to the taste, and so effica­
cious in supplying the place of nourishment, that its
effects had sometimes prolonged life for twelve
whole days. Another herb sustained in a similar
manner the strength of those indefatigable cava­
liers’ horses. This apparent miracle may have
been the result of a desire to deceive, and may
have been effected by reducing substances emi­
nently nutritious to a very small bulk.§ To the
use of such an art we may explain what was said
Digitized by CjOOQle
MEDICINE A PART OF OCCULT SCIENCE. 107
of Abaris, that he had never been seen to eat or to
drink ;
* an art also which was successfully prac­
ticed by Epimenides, the cotemporary of Solon,t
is well known in the present day, and has very
recently been brought to perfection by a learned
man.| It is nearly fifty years since the plan of
giving nourishment of this kind to mariners was
attempted in France : its small bulk would have
enabled a much greater quantity than of any other
provision to have been embarked at a time; it was,
however, abandoned; for although the men thus fed
did not suffer from hunger, yet they were found
less capable of sustaining fatigue.
This would not be any inconvenience to the
* lamblich., Vit. Pythag., $ 27. Abaris was a Scythian, the
son of Seuthes; he flourished during the Trojan war, and is sup­
posed to have written some treatises in Greek. Many absurd
fables are related concerning him; among others, that he re­
ceived a flying arrow from Apollo, which gave oracles, and
transported him through the air wherever he pleased ; that he
returned to the hyperborean countries from Athens without eat­
ing, and that he made the Trojan Palladium with the bones of
Pelops.—Ed.
t Plutarch, Sympos.
I M. Gimbernat, Revue Encyclopedique, tome xxxv., p. 235.
More absurd stories are related of Epimenides than of Abaris.
He was said to have entered into a cave, where he fell asleep,
and slept for fifty-seven years; so that, when he awoke, he found
every thing altered ; and he scarcely knew where he was: a de­
gree of ignorance which is surprising, as he is also reported to
have been able to dismiss his soul from his body, and recall it at
pleasure. During its absence, he affirmed that it had familiar
intercourse with the gods, and obtained the gift of prophecy. In
plain language, he was a man of genius, a poet, and a learned
man, capable of great abstraction ; and, for the sake of justifying
his pretensions of intercourse with the gods, he lived in great
retirement, and chiefly upon herbs. So high was his reputation
for sanctity, that, during a plague in Attica, 596 b.c., the Athe­
nians sent for him to perform a lustration, by which the gods
were appeased, and the plague ceased. He was a native of
Crete; and the Cretans paid him divine honors after his death.
Notwithstanding his celebrity, however, he can only be regarded
in the light of an impostor, living in an age of almost incredible
credulity; therefore every thing related of him must be received
with doubt.—Eo.
Digitized by tjOOQle
108 MEDICINE A PART OF OCCULT SCIENCE.
Thaumaturgists. A holy man, who lives without
any, or very little excitement, commonly remains
motionless in his cell, receiving the respect and ad­
oration of those who seek him there ; and if, after a
long period of trial, he should be found sinking
from weakness, this circumstance would only
increase the faith in the reality of his miraculous
abstinence.
This difficulty, beside, could not have existed in
earlier times. According to Edrisi,
* the Berber
tribes of the neighborhood of Roun prepared, with
honey, and roasted and bruised corn, so nourishing
a paste, that a handful eaten in the morning enabled
them to march until evening without experiencing
hunger. The Caledonians and the Meates.t who
formed the greatest part of the population of
Great Britain, understood, says Xiphilin, a method
of preparing their food in a way so capable of sus­
taining their strength, that having taken a quantity
equal to the size of a bean, they felt neither hunger
nor thirst. The Scythians, doubtless, possessed the
art of a process similar to this, and even extended
it to the food of their horses; but the miraculous
herbs mentioned by Matthiolus were merely in­
tended to delude others as to the secret of their real
nature. But this secret could not have been un­
known, at least to the learned portion, among peo­
ple much more civilized than the Caledonians and
Scythians; its existence, therefore, renders such
narrations credible, and divests them of their
miraculous covering.
Far above the miracle of making man indepen-
» Geographic d’Edrisi, translated by M. Am. Jaubert, vol. i.,
p. 205.
t Xiphilin in Sever., Anno 208. In a story which appears to
be of Oriental origin, the secret of composing pills, or an opiate
endued with the same virtue, is attributed to Avicenna and
another learned man. (The Thousand and One Nights.)
Digitized by Croogle
MEDICINE A PART OF OCCULT SCIENCE. 109
dent of the most pressing wants of nature, is that
of restoring to him the life that he has lost.
It is agreed that there is nothing so difficult to
determine as the certain and irrefragable signs of
death ; and the special study of these signs, and a
complete experience of what is doubtful and posi­
tive in them, alone furnish the means of distinguish­
ing between a real and an apparent death. To
restore to life a being who is threatened to be de­
prived of it by a too hasty burial would, in the
present day, be a benefit; formerly it was a mira­
cle.
The laws and customs of an enlightened people
will always prescribe laws for ascertaining that
life is actually extinct. From time immemorial
the Hindoos have employed fire, the most certain,
perhaps, of all proofs, for, even if it does not rouse
the sensibility, there is a visible difference in the
action of burning when exercised on an inanimate
body, and that on one in which life still exists.
*
It is not until after a portion of cow-dung has been
burned in the hollow over the stomach of the
corpse, that the funereal pile, which is to consume
it, is lighted. According to appearances, a simi­
lar custom formerly existed in Italy and Greece.
Tertullianf ridicules those spectacles in which
Mercury is represented as examining corpses, and
convincing himself by a red-hot iron that the ex­
terior marks of death were not deceptive. This
custom must then have been at one time in full
force, but had fallen into disuse, and existed only
* Fod€r6, Dictionnaire des Sciences Medicales, art. Signes de la
Mort.
f Tertullian, Apologetic., cap. xv. Ccelius Rhodiginus (Leet.
Antiq., lib. iv., cap. xxxi.) reads, as we do, cauterio in the text
of Tertullian, ana not cantherio. This last version, adopted by
some modem writers, does not seem to me to offer any reason­
able sense.
Digitized by C>ooQle
110 MEDICINE A PART OF OCCULT SCIENCE.
in mythological remembrances. Democritus had,
at an early period, asserted that there did not exist
any certain signs of real death.
* Plinyt maintain­
ed the same opinion, and even remarked that
women were more exposed than men to the dan­
gers of an apparent death. He cited numerous
instances of apparent deaths, and among others,
one mentioned by Heraclides, of a woman who
revived after having passed for dead during seven
days.f Neither did he forget the sagacity of As-
clepiades, who, seeing a funeral procession pass by,
exclaimed that the man who was being canned to
the pile was not dead.§ To conclude, might not
humanity have adopted this means of safety, to
* A. Cornel., Cels., lib. ii., cap. vi.
t Plin., Hist. Nat., lib. vii., cap. Iii. t Ibid.
§ A. Comet, Cels., loc. cit. Heraclides wrote a treatise entitled,
The Disease in which the Respiration is suspended. Asclepiades
was a learned physician, and was the founder of a sect in
medicine. There can be no difference of opinion with respect
to the correctness of the observations of these distinguished men.
Numerous cases of apparent deaths have been recorded as having
occurred in modern times. The mention of a few will suffice to
demonstrate the difficulty of determining the fact that death has
actually triumphed over mortality; unless the signs be of that
unequivocal nature that they can not be mistaken—namely, the
extinction of animal heat, that rigidity of the body in which the
direction of the limb, when changed, remains, and commencing
decomposition. Francis Civile, a Norman gentleman, who lived
in the time of Charles IX., twice apparently died, and was twice
in the act of being buried, when he spontaneously revived at the
moment in which the coffin was deposited in the grave. In the
seventeenth century, a Lady Russell apparently died, and was
about to be buried ; but, as the bell was tolling for her funeral,
she sat up in the cdffin, and exclaimed, “ It is time to go to
church!” Diemerbroesk (Treatise on the Plague, book iv.) men­
tions the case of a peasant, who displayed no signs of life for
three days; but, on being carried to the grave, revived, and lived
many years afterward. So recently as the year 1836, a respect­
able citizen of Brussels fell into a profound lethargy on a Sunday
morning. His friends, conceiving that he was dead, determined
to bury him ; and on Monday he was placed on a bier, with all
the usual accompaniments of the dead, previous to interment, in
Catholic countries. His body was placed in the coffin; and,
when the undertaker’s men were about to screw down the lid,
Digitized by C>ooQle
MEDICINE A PART OF OCCULT SCIENCE. Ill
which the instinct of tyranny instigated Nicoc-
rates
* to make use of, in order to prevent the in­
habitants of Cyrene from feigning death, and by
thus leaving the town, to withdraw from his cru­
elty 1
* Morning Herald, 21st July, 1836.
Would it be absurd to suppose that the Thau­
maturgists were so well acquainted with the dis­
tinction between apparent and real death as to take
advantage of it, and to boast the power of so brill­
iant a miracle as a resurrection : and consequently
they exerted themselves to lead to the disuse of the
salutary practice attributed by tradition to the god
Mercury.
It is at least certain that many Theurgists boast­
ed of being endowed with the power of recalling
the dead to life. Diogenes Laertius relates that
Empedocles resuscitated a woman,! that is to say,
“ that he dissipated the lethargy of a woman at­
tacked by uterine suffocation.”!
The biographer of Apollonius of Tyana more
cautiously expresses himself, relatively to a young
girl who owed her life to the care of this philoso­
pher. He says, that she had seemed to die ; while
he confesses that the rain which fell upon her,
the supposed corpse sat up, rubbed his eyes, and called for his
coffee and a newspaper.
* From these, and many instances of a
similar description, it is evident that a temporary quiescent con­
dition of the vital principle must not be confounded with real
death. The immobility of the body, even its cadaverous aspect,
the coldness of the surface, the absence of respiration and pulsa­
tion, and the somewhat sunken state of the eye, are not un­
equivocal evidences that life is wholly extinct. The only un­
equivocal signs are those mentioned above; and, happily, in this
country, interment does not take place until some evidence of
putrefaction display themselves.—Ed.
* Plutarch, Mulier, Fort. Fact., § x.
t Diogen. Laert., lib. viii., cap. Ivii. et Ixix.
t Diderot,’ Opinions des Anciens Philosopher, art Pythagore-
Pythagoriciens.
Digitized by Google
112 MEDICINE A PART OF OCCULT SCIENCE.
when she was in the act of being carried with her
face exposed to the pile, might have commenced
exciting her senses. Apollonius had at least, like
Asclepiades, the merit of distinguishing ata glance
between real and apparent death.
*
An observer of the seventeenth century! relates
that a servant, finding, on returning from a voyage,
his master dead, tenderly and frequently embraced
the inanimate body. Thinking that he discovered
some signs of life in it, he breathed his breath into
it with so much perseverance as restored respira­
tion, and reanimated the apparently dead man.
This was not regarded as a miracle and, happily
* Philostrat., Vit. Apollon. Tyan., lib. iv., cap. xvi. Apollo­
nius began by asking the name of the young girl, doubtless in
order to address her. He knew that of all articulated sounds
which strike upon our ear, our own name is that which we
most easily recognize, and which most quickly excites our at­
tention.
f Petr. Borellus, Hist, et Observ. Medic. Centur., iii., observ.
Iviii., quoted by Fromann, Tractat. de Fascinations, pp. 483, 484.
| This mode of restoring the respiratory function m suspended
animation is often successfully resorted to in the present day;
and as a medical man has often to determine the question of real
or apparent death, it is consolatory to know, that he possesses
the means of deciding with sufficient accuracy to authorize the
adoption of the measures which experience has proved to be the
most likely to restore animation when it is merely suspended.
When death has actually taken place, it is surely unnecessary to
say, that any human attempt to restore life would not only dis­
play the most outrageous arrogance, but prove indubitably in­
effective. We believe most sincerely in the real miracle of
raising Lazarus from the grave by our Savior, as firmly, indeed,
as in the resurrection of our Savior himself; and, although we
are ready to admit that the Almighty, for some special purpose,
as in the case of the Apostles and the early promulgators of
Christianity, might even now endow a mortal with such a super­
natural gift, yet, all experience is against such an event. Many
impostors, however, have presumptuously asserted their posses^
sion of this power; and, even at so recent a period as tnat of
the French prophets, it was assumed by these insane enthusiasts,
who, not contented with the reputation of many cures performed
upon nervous and imaginative individuals, by means of prayer,
destroyed their reputation by indiscreetly staking it on the resur­
rection of Dr. Eames : a striking proof how readily the intellect
may become the slave of fanaticism.—Ed.
Digitized by UooqIc
INFLUENCE OF POISONS. 113
for the faithful servant, it was no lousier the custom
to attribute such an occurrence to magic.
*
CHAPTER V.
Poisonous Substances.—Poisons, the Effect of which can he
graduated.—Miraculous Deaths.—Poisons employed in Ordeals.
—Diseases asserted to be caused by Divine Vengeance.—Dis­
eases foretold.
Fear is more permanent, as well as more ex­
acting, than gratitude. It was easy for Thauma-
turgists to inspire the former, in employing the
agency of poisonous substances on organized bod­
ies. Nature has produced these substances prin­
cipally in those parts of our globo which were
first inhabited; and the art of increasing their
number and their power is not less ancient than
civilization. What could have appeared more
magical, what more miraculous, we may inquire,
in the eyes of ignorant men, at least in apparent
connection with its cause, than poisoning by prussic
acid, by morphia, or by certain preparations of
arsenic, had they been known in ancient times I
The author of the crime would have appeared in
all eyes as a being endowed with supernatural
power; even perhaps as a god, who could sport
with the life of weak mortals, and who with a
breath could cause them to vanish from the face
of the earth.
The ancient use, however, of this formidable
knowledge at one time proved a blessing. The
* The subject of the powerful influence of mind over the body
is of so much importance, especially at the present time, when
the public is so open to the promises held forth by every pre­
tender to the healing art, who blazons forth, in advertisements,
the marvelous cures effected by his nostrums, that the Editor
has added an essay upon that subject to the Appendix. (See
note C.)—En.
II. H
Digitized by CrOOQle
114 INFLUENCE OF POISONS.
territory of Sycion was desolated by the ravages of
wolves. The oracle, which was consulted, pointed
out to the inhabitants the trunk of a tree, the bark
of which it enjoined them to mix with the morsels
of flesh which they threw to the wolves. These
animals were destroyed by the poison. But the
inhabitants could not recognize the tree, of which
they had only seen the trunk. The priests re­
served this part of the secret to themselves.
If in Greece, more than two thousand years ago,
a man had fallen a victim to the influence of poison,
or from an excess of intemperance, the incident in
itself would not be interesting. But, when the
short sojournment of that man on earth had cost
more deaths and more evils to humanity than the
greatest scourges of nature; and, nevertheless,
when the illusion of conquests and the fallacy of
vulgar opinions, had converted that monster pol­
luted with innumerable crimes and vices into a
model for heroes; when, in a word, that man was
Alexander, the son of Philip, the problem be­
comes historical, and excites curiosity. Its solu­
tion interests us, from its connection with scien­
tific ideas, the existence of which it enables us to
reveal.
JSlian, Pompeus Trogas, and Quintus Curtius
attribute the death of Alexander to poison.
* The
two latter add, that the poison was sent from Mace­
donia to Babylon, and was water from a spring at
the foot of Mount Nonacris, in Arcadia. This
water was so cold and so bitter that it occasioned
death to both men and animals; it broke or cor­
roded all vases, except those which were made
from the hoof of an ass, or a mule, or a horse, or
from the horn which the Scythian assest have on
* Pausanias, Corinthiac., cap. ix.
t We are told by Aristotle, that, in his time, there were no
Digitized by kjOOQle
INFLUENCE OF POISONS. 115
their forehead. One of these horns had been of­
fered as a present to Alexander : he had dedicated
it to Apollo, in the temple of Delphi, with an in­
scription, relating its wonderful property.
* In this
recital we may perceive some dubious or obscure
expressions; and remark that substances are fre­
quently qualified as being hot at cold, independent
of their temperature. Instead of the horn of a
fabulous animal, a vessel might have been substi­
tuted which, like many vessels that were used by
the ancients, was in the shape of a horn, and per­
haps, also, displayed the color of one, with its
polish and its semi-transparency ; but which, being
brought from Scythia, or Upper Asia,) might have
been made of thick glass, or ofporcelain sufficiently
well baked, and calculated to resist the action of
corrosive liquids. Without entering into such an
inquiry, the narrators have detailed only the mar­
velous part of the recital, and have made of it a
ridiculous story.
I suppose, without entering into any explana­
tion, that the wonderful springs of which they
boasted, and the water of which, we are told, cor­
roded all metals with the exception of one alone,
which they described simply by this property of
inalterability, from the facility with which it was
volatilized by heat, and a residue procured under
the form of powder, perfectly white, and of ex­
treme tenuity, was such as we need not refer to
the land of fables. Such springs are at the doors
of the French capital, at Enghien: and for dis­
tributing the water, pipes and taps of zinc are
asses in Scythia; some other animal, therefore, must have pro­
duced the horn sent to Alexander.—Ed.
* .£lian, De Nal. Animal., lib. x., cap. xl.
t The name of Scythia began to be applied to the northern
parts of Asia, in the Macedonian period, and was employed at
the time of the conquest of Asia by Alexander.—Ed.
Digitized by tjOOQle
116 INFLUENCE OF POISONS.
used,
* because this metal appears to be the only
one which does not decompose sulphureous
waters.
Our incredulity would be redoubled, if an unac­
credited author had made us acquainted, for the
first time, with the zagh; that substance which is
employed in the East for inlaying steel arms with
apparent gold. It is drawn from a spring in the
mountains of the Druses, and can only be preserved
in vessels of lead, or of glass, or porcelain. Zagh
is a mixture of the acidulated sulphate of alumina,
and sulphate of iron,! the solution of which will
corrode any other metal except lead.J This, and
the preceding example, at once sets aside pail of
the improbability which pervades the recitals rela­
tive to the water of Nonacris. Nothing precludes
the zagh from being, as the Orientals assert, a pro­
duction ofnature. In a work§ which does as much
honor to his vast knowledge as to his philosophy,
Seneca describes a spring near to Tempe in Thes­
saly, the waters of which are mortal to animals, and
penetrate through iron and copper.|| In Thrace,
in the country of the Cyclops, also, there flowed
a rivulet whose limpid water seemed to differ in
* Revue Encyclopedique, tome xxxv., p. 501.
t Report of the Societyfor encouraging National Industry, Decem­
ber, 1821, p. 362.
t Our author here labors under a mistake. Such a solution
■will not affect vessels of platinum, gold, or silver.—Ed.
$ Senec., Quast. Nat., lib. iii., cap. xxv.
II It is probable that this spring contained either free sulphuric
acid, or a highly acidulous salt of that acid. Modern chemistry
has detected this acid in a free state, as well as hydrochloric acid,
in the water of the Rio Vinagre, which descends from the volca­
no of Parait\ in Colombia, South America. Sulphuric acid is also
found in the waters of other volcanic regions. The sour springs
of Byron, in the Genesse country, about sixty miles south of the
Erie Canal, contain pure sulphuric acid. Such waters, therefore,
would rapidly corrode both iron and copper, converting the former
into green, the latter into blue vitriol—sulphates of both metals.
—Ed.
Digitized by Google
INFLUENCE OF POISONS. 117
nothing from common water; yet every animal
who drank of it instantly died.
*
The water of Nonacris, which corroded iron,
and cracked or dissolved vases of silver and of
brass, and even those of baked clay,t could only
have been a solution more charged with corrosive
substances than the zagh, and the water of the
stream of Tempe. I think, nevertheless, that it
was a production of art. 1st. Because it was, ac­
cording to Quintus Curtius, a production of Mace­
donia, and according to many other authors, of
Arcadia also, which could not have been the case
unless it was manufactured in both countries. 2d.
Plutarch adds, that it was obtained under the form
of a light dew,| an expression which seems to
characterize it as the production of distillation.
3d. At Nonacris, Herodotus says, they took an oath
on the water of the Styx. Stobaeus adds that,
according to the general opinion, this water pos­
sessed the terrible property of punishing perjurers
who had dared to swear by it.§ If this fact is re­
garded as the employment of poison in ordeals, we
may believe that the water of Nonacris and of the
Styx was a production of occult science which
rendered it, at will, either innocent or injurious.
4th. The water of Nonacris could not be detected
by its taste, when mixed with wine, which was
* Arist., De Mirab. Auscul.
t Q. Curt., lib. x., cap. ultim.—Vitruv., De Architect., lib. iii.,
cap. iii.—Justin, lib. xii., cap. xiv.—Pausanias, Arcad., cap. xviii.
.—Plutarch in Alexandr,, cap. xcix.—Plin., Hist. Nat., lib. xxx.,
cap. xvi.—Arrian, De Exped. Alexand., lib. vii., cap. vii. Plu­
tarch extends the dissolving virtue of the water of Nonacris to
glass and to crystal. The ancients were anxious to exaggerate;
and the possessors of the secret probably seconded this disposition
with all their power.
t Plutarch in Alexandr., cap. xlix.—Herodot., lib. vi., cap.
Ixxv.
$ Herodot., lib. vi.—J. Stobaeus, Eclog. Physic. De Statu. ani-
inarum.
Digitized by tjOOQle
118 POISONINGS AIDED BELIEF IN MAGIC.
not the case with the zagh, nor is it with the water
of Enghien, which can be detected, however small
the quantity, when mixed with wine or any other
liquid. It could not be suspected, says Seneca,
*
either by its appearance or by its smell; similar
in this respect to the poisons composed by the
most celebrated poisoners, which could only be
discovered at the expense of life. In speaking
thus, does not Seneca describe a composition anal­
ogous to the aqua Toffana of the Italians ;t espe­
cially when he adds, that its deleterious action is
exerted particularly on the entrails, which it con­
tracts and binds, and thus occasions death.
* Hoffman quotes Garelli’s letter to him, in his Medicine Rationalis
Symptomata, tome ii., p. 2; cap. ii., $ 19, p. 185.
Setting aside historical discussion, it is sufficient
for us to draw the attention of our readers to the
extent of the apparent magical power which such
a secret had put into the hands of the Thaumatur-
gists. What could they not accomplish, if, joined
to the power of graduating the effect of poison,
they could determine the exact day when the vic­
* Senec., loc. cit.
f The Aqua della Toffana, or Aquetta di Napoli, was the inven­
tion of a woman of the name of Toffana, a celebrated secret poi­
soner, who resided at Naples in the end of the seventeenth and
the commencement of the eighteenth centuries. This water was
so powerful, that from four to six drops were sufficient to destroy
a man. It was sold in small vials, inscribed “ Manna of St. Nicho­
las of Bari,” and ornamented with the image of the saint. By
thus concealing her drops under the name of a miraculous oil for
curing diseases, then in high repute in Naples, Toffana long car­
ried on her abominable trade of assisting heirs to their estates,
and wives to new husbands. This violation of a sacred name,
however, having raised a loud outcry against her among the cler­
gy, the wretched woman was arrested, put to the rack, and after­
ward strangled. These drops were stated by Garelli,
* physician
to the Emperor Charles Vll., to be a strong solution of arsenious
acid in an infusion of the ivy-leaved toadflax, Linaria cymbalaria,
which was an unnecessary addition, as the arsenious acid is per­
fectly tasteless.—Ed.
Digitized by UooqIc
POISONINGS AIDED BELIEF IN MAGIC. 119
tim should fall 1 This art has existed at all times
in India, where the possession of it is not conceal­
ed.
* “ There are,” says a personage in the East­
ern Tales,! “ all kinds of poisons. There are some
which take away life a month after they have been
taken; there are others which destroy it at the end
of two months; and there are others, the effect of
which is still more gradual.” When a Hindoo
widow, in 1822, burned herself upon the funereal
pile of her husband, the Bramins said frankly to
the English observer whom we have quoted,| that,
had she been prevented or dissuaded from accom­
plishing the sacrifice, she would not have survived
the violation of her vow more than three hours,
as they had graduated, for that time, the strength
of the poison which they had administered to
her.
jElian,§ who mentions the art of the inhabitants
of India in manufacturing poisons, the effect of
which is slow and graduated at will, ascribes to
them also the possession of a substance, a very
small dose of which will occasion almost sudden
death without pain. It was sent to the King of
Persia, who promised his mother that she alone
should share with him the possession of this valua­
ble poison. In fact, it served as well for murder­
ous political unions, as for the sacred vengeance
of the Thaumaturgists.
When the Church, scarcely delivered from the
persecutions ofthe Polytheists, was torn by disputes
on transubstantiation, which, to use the expression
of a great poet, caused Christians to perish martyrs
* The Hindoo poison is named powst, and is a preparation of
the poppy.—Ed.
t Arabian Nights
* Entertainments, 14tl) night. Story of the
Forty Thieves.
t See ch. i., vol. ii.—Asiatic Jour., vol. xv. (1823), pp. 292, 293.
§ iElian, De Nat. Animal., lib. iv^, cap. xxx. et xii.
Digitized by tjOOQle
120 POISONINGS AIDED BELIEF IN MAGIC.
of a diphthong,
* St. Athanasius! and his partisans
had the imprudence to celebrate the miracle which
* Lorsque attaquant le verbe et sa divinity
D’une syllabe impie un saint mot augmente,
Faisait, dans une guerre et si vive et si longue,
Perir tant de Chretiens, martyrs d’une dipthongue.
Boileau, Satire xii., vers. 199-202.
Omousios, unsubstantiate or of equal essence ; Omoiousios, or of
similar essence. The dipthong oi, which distinguished these two
words from one another, was adopted by the Arians, and rejected
by their adversaries. '
t St. Athanasius was born in Alexandria, a.d. 206, of Christian
parents. He received the most liberal education, and profited by
it to a degree that admirably fitted him for the station in the Church
which he afterward filled. Arius, his opponent, was a native of
Cyrenaica. He had been expelled the communion of the Church
by St. Peter, who had ordained him a deacon, on account of hav­
ing joined the Meletians; but, having repented, he was readmit­
ted by Achillas, who had succeeded St. Peter as Patriarch of
Alexandria, and was ordained a priest and pastor to one of the
churches of Alexandria. The ambition of Arius was disappointed
when his patron was succeeded by St. Alexander; and he soon
afterward began to preach the heresy known by his name, respect­
ing the divinity of our Savior, which caused his second expulsion
from the communion of the Church. St. Athanasius was then
merely a deacon; but, in the Council of Nice, he combated so .
successfully the doctrines broached by Arius, and supported by
the followers of the heresiarch, that, on the death of Alexander,
he was elected Patriarch of Alexandria, a.d. 326. Soon after this
event, the Meletians and Arians having joined, and St. Athanasius
having had a sentence of deposition pronounced against him,
through the means of Eusebius, Arius made a kind of retraction
of his former opinions to Constantine, and was readmitted to the
Church generally, but, nevertheless, he was refused to be admit­
ted by the church at Alexandria. It is unnecessary to enter into
the history of Arianism, and the various controversies, feuds, and
even appeals to arms, which this heresy occasioned. On the re­
cantation of Arius to Constantine, in a third confession of his faith,
and his profession on oath to submit to the Nicene Creed, the em­
peror, in 336, commanded that the patriarch should leave his see
in case he persisted to refuse admitting Arius to communion, and
resolved that he should be received in a solemn manner. St.
James, who was then at Constantinople, exhorted the people to
have recourse to God by fasting and prayer for seven days; and
on the eighth day, the Sunday on which Arius was to have been
admitted, that wretched man was found dead in a privy. Soc­
rates relates that he was taken ill of a bowel complaint during
the procession. Some writers ascribed his death to poison ; but
as the Arians ascribed his death to the magical practices of his
enemies, the accusation of poisoning was not believed.—Elk
Digitized by UooqIg
POISONINGS AIDED BELIEF IN MAGIC. 121
had freed them from Arius. Let the names be
suppressed ; let the details alone of this unexpect­
ed death be recalled—those which have been trans­
mitted to us by three church historians :
* there is
no man, however indifferently educated, who will
not there recognize symptoms produced by violent
poison No physician would have hesitated to
counsel a circumstantial examination, in order to
clear up some very plausible suspicions, and no
magistrate would have declined to order it. And
if it is added, that a few hours before the death,
St. Alexander, the adversary of Arius, was heard
addressing fervent prayers to heaven, that rather
than the heretic should be permitted to enter in
triumph into the Church, and his heresy with him,
he might be struck dead,! it is not surprising that
the partisans of Arius did not think his death nat­
ural, although they had supposed it to be a mira­
cle, and that their accusations were sufficiently
public to induce one of their adversaries to think
it necessary to pass them over in silence.^
* Socrat., Hist. Eccles., lib. i., cap. xxxviii.—Sozomen, Hist.
Eccles., lib. ii., cap. xxix., xxx.—Theodoret, Hist. Eccles., lib. L,
cap. xiv.
T Theodoret, Hist. Eccles., lib. i., cap. xiv.
t Sozomen, Hist. Eccles., lib. ii., cap. xxix. From what has
been already stated, the Editor can not avoid blaming our author
for great partiality, in insinuating the charge of poisoning against
the opposers of Arius. Such feuds in the Christian Church were
undoubtedly most unhappy at the time for the progress of the
true faith, and led to much of the apostasy that followed; but
there are no grounds for the accusation of the poisoning of Ariua
—En.
Such, in those days of discord, was the transport
of zeal I The Christians, in the excess ofjoy which
the death of the Emperor Julian occasioned them,
indiscreetly published that his tragical end had
been foretold by marvelous dreams, and that they
perceived in it a signal miracle of the divine
Digitized by Croogle
122 ORDEALS BY POISON.
vengeance. The philosopher Libanius,
* the friend
of the monarch, after his death, and under succes­
sors who had very little respect for his memory,
boldly declared that Julian had fallen beneath the
blows of a Christian assassin. To this imputation
an orthodox writer replies, “ The fact might be
true; and who will blame that man, who, for his
God and his religion, would have committed so
courageous an action?”! This shameful glorying
in crime, so contrary to the precepts of the religion
which the writer believed, may, however, be natu­
ral ; for it is natural that, in proportion to the keen­
ness of the interests by which they are affected,
men become eager, reject reason, and precipitate
themselves into delirium and fury.
It must be lamented, that in every nation, the
ancient priests enjoyed an influence equally infalli­
ble and mysterious in submitting the judgment of
crimes to ordeals, more especially to those of bev­
erages prepared by their hands; and which were
generally deadly or innocent beverages, according
to their wish to save or to destroy the accused
person.
The Hindoo law, the most ancient of all, is the
only one which dares frankly to utter the name—
poison. The accused who submits to this ordeal,
in taking the poison which he is about to drink,
believes that it will change, if he is innocent, into
a delicious draught.^ This is a remarkable formu­
lary, which, conformable with what we have else-
♦ Libanius was a native of Antioch, in Syria. He became so
celebrated a teacher of rhetoric, that, although a pagan, yet he
numbered some Christians among his scholars, and was on inti­
mate terms with St. Basil. He was the personal friend of Julian ;
and, being adverse to the Christians, his assertions respecting the
death of the emperor can, therefore, be scarcely regarded as
worthy of much credit.—Ed.
t Sozomen, Hist. Eccles., lib. vi., cap. ii.
t Asiatic Researches, vol, i., pp. 473, 486,
Digitized by UooqIc
ORDEALS BY POISON. J23
where declared, addresses itself to the physical
agent as if it were a being endowed with supernat­
ural power and knowledge; as, for instance, a ge­
nius, or a god.
Sometimes the trial was confined to swallowing
the water in which the priest had bathed the image
of one of the divinities,
* which, although less form­
idable in appearance, yet was, in fact, as decisive.!
* Institutes of Menu, chap, ix., v. 315.
In Japan, the accused is obliged to swallow, in
a cup of water, a pflece of paper, on which the
priests have traced magical characters and pic­
tures ; and this beverage tortures him cruelly, until
he has confessed his crime.|
Guided, probably, by ancient tradition more
than by any knowledge which belongs to them, the
Arabs practice similar trials.
The negroes of Issyny dare not drink the water
into which the Fetiche has been dipped, when they
♦ Refer to vol. i., chap. vi.
+ Asiatic Researches, vol. i., pp. 474-486. Upon the different
ordeals employed among the Hindoos, namely, those of fire, of a
weight, of freezing water, of scalding oil, of the serpent, of poi­
son, &c., see Dubois, Moeurs et Coutumes des Pennies de I'Inde,
tome ii., pp. 546-554. There is not one of them, tne success of
which does not depend on the will of the priests.
The Hindoo code of laws is a pure theocracy, the lawgiver
being supposed to promulgate nothing but what was revealed to
him by the divinity; hence the unconditional and implicit obedi­
ence which the people yield to their priests, who must be neces­
sarily the interpreters of revealed laws. Princes are even subject
to them; and, so far does the assumption of power by the Bra-
mins extend, that we find these words in the Institutes of Menu:—
“ What prince could gain wealth by oppressing those (Brainins)
who, if angry, could frame other worlds; and could give being to
other gods and to other mortals.”* After such an assumption in
the priesthood, the degree of superstition and mental degradation
which has kept the condition of man servile and stationary in
India, will no longer excite surprise ; for, what follows so closely
in the steps of superstition as popular ignorance, mental despot­
ism, and barbaric tyranny ?—Ed.
t Koempfer, History of Japan, book iii., chap, v., p. 51.
Digitized by UooQle
124 ORDEALS BY POISON.
affirm what is not the truth.
* Before consecrated
water could inspire so great a fear, must there not
have been several examples to prove its deadly
efficacy 1
The initiated of Para-belli, a very powerful re­
ligious society in the interior of Southern Africa,
prepare, among the Qojas negroes, a water of
trial, which is thrown over the legs, the arms, or
the hands of the accused. If the water burns him,
he is declared guilty ; if it does not burn him, he
is innocent.f Is not the mysterious composition
of the water, and the care that is taken to wash the
limbs before they are exposed to its action, suffi­
cient to explain the assumed miracle 1
Among the Qojas, and among numbers of other
African tribes, a person suspected of poisoning is
made to drink a very acid liquid, prepared by
scraping the inside bark of the quony-lree, from
which the sap has been first pressed out into water.
The accused who survives the trial is declared in­
nocent; he who dies is pronounced guilty.| It
may be believed that the care with which the bark
is pressed, decides the fate of the accused. In
other countries, the accused is obliged to drink a
liquid prepared by the hands of the priests: in
Monomotapa he is condemned if he vomits it; and
in the kingdom of Loango, if the liquid has a diu­
retic effect upon him, he is also condemned.§
Nations more advanced in civilization have au­
thorized those trials in which the divinity is called
upon to work a miracle to manifest the truth. At
Rome, in the time of Cicero and Horace, a master
who suspected that his slaves had robbed him con­
ducted them before a priest. They were each
* Godefroy Loyer, Voyage to the Kingdom of Issyny.
t O. Dapper, Description de IAfrique, pp. 269, 270,
t Ibid., I. c., p. 263. Ibid., pp. 325, 326, 392.
Digitized by Google
ORDEALS BY POISON. 125
obliged to eat a cake over which the priest had
pronounced some magical words (carmine infec-
lum). This plan undoubtedly discovered the au­
thor of the theft.
* Near Tyana, an inexhaustible
spring of very cold, but always bubbling water
(water strongly gaseous), served to test the truth
of vows. ' The truthful man drank of it with impu­
nity ; the man guilty of a false vow, if he dared to
taste it, saw his body covered with blisters and
abscesses, and was so deprived of his strength that
he could not quit the place until he had confessed
his peijury.t
Christianity has not altogether rejected these
kinds of ordeals. The fountain of Wteresf is still
celebrated in Picardy. The unfaithful wife of St.
Genoulf dared to plunge her arm into it, vowing
that her conduct was irreproachable ; but her arm
immediately became withered. The fountain, how­
ever, is now less malicious, and all women wash
their hands in it with impunity. It may, therefore,
be believed that this ordeal has not been always
harmless; and that, more than once, the terror
which it inspired had restrained many from attempt­
ing it. This has often occured with other ordeals.
The collections of anecdotes are replete with stories
of the guilty, who, by the fear of a miracle, have
been induced to confess their crimes. Here we
repeat the reasonings that we have already offered,
that fear would not have been occasioned, if pre­
ceding experiments had not proved that the ordeal
was sometimes well founded. It was so managed
that the promised miracle should not exceed the
powers of the Thaumaturgist.
* Acron, in Herat. Epiet., lib. i., epist. x., v. 9.
t Philostrat., Vila Apollon., lib. i., cap. iv.
j A fountain which is situated near Samer, department of the
Pas de Calais.—Mmoires de CAcademie Celtique, tome v., pp. 109,
110.
Digitized by Google
126 APPARENT MIRACULOUS BLINDNESS.
Death was not the only revenge which was fore­
told by the interpreters of an irritated god.
Turning against his enemies the secrets of the
sacred science with which he was armed, with more
address and less danger to himself, the priest often
reserved to himself the power of producing a sec­
ond miracle in favor of repentance.
A very bright light, such, for example, as the
Bengal fire, can dazzle the eye so effectually, that
the power of seeing will remain suspended for
some time. At the taking of Milet by Alexander,
when the soldiers entered the temple of Milet to
despoil it, so strong a light shone forth from the
sanctuary, that the soldiers were struck with
temporary blindness.
* But the effect produced by
such a method of revenge is of very short duration ,•
and its success depends too much on the concur­
rence of favorable circumstances to permit it to be
often practiced.
* Valer. Maxim., lib. i., cap. i.—Lactant., Divin. Instil., lib. ii.,
cap. vii.
T Plutarch, De Nomin. Fluv. et Mont., xxii. M. Vallot, of the
academy of Dijon, is of opinion that this plant was a kind of
tithymnle, most probably Euphorbia officinarum.
1 liibhothique Univcrsclle des Sciences, tome iv., p. 221.
Near the river Archeloiis grew the plant myope
it is impossible to rub the face with it, without
losing the sight. The leaves of the stramonium
possess a property differing very little from the
myope. A young man, having accidentally spurted
a drop of the sap into his eye, remained for several
hours deprived of the use of the organ.J We
know, in this day, that the extract of belladonna,
diluted with water, paralyzes for a time the organ
of sight. To seize the propitious moment for
causing the poisonous substance to act, and for
working the miracle, requires nothing more than
address. Thus, with the talents of the juggler
Digitized by C>ooQle
oracles consulted in endemic diseases. 127
aiding the science of the Thaumaturgist, the histo­
ries of men miraculously struck blind, and as mi­
raculously recovered, present nothing improbable.
Endemic diseases, which ravage a country, an
army, a city, sometimes assume so malignant a
character that ignorance believes, and policyfeigns
to believe them as contagious as the pestilence.
Formerly, before the oracles were abolished,
desolated populations had recourse to them; and
it was the wish of the oracles that the people
should always recognize in these diseases the ven­
geance of gods, justly irritated against their wor­
shipers. This belief being once established, the
priest menaced countries rebellious to his com­
mands with the invasion of the plague : more than
once he has announced the appearance of it at a
certain time, and his prophecy has been fulfilled.
It was, in fact, easy for him to found his opinion
upon probabilities, equivalent to certainty: it is
only requisite to have observed beforehand the
return of circumstances capable of reproducing
these diseases. It was this science in ancient
Greece which procured for Abaris
* the reputation
of being a prophet. The same observations will,
at the present time, serve for similar predictions,
although the honest man will confine himself to
indicating precautions for preventing the evil; and
he is afflicted if, in neglecting them, a triumph is
provided him of passing for a true prophet.! But
* lamblich. in Vit. Pythag., lib. i., cap. xxviii.
t In 1820, the port of Roquemaure (an arrondissement of Uzes,
department of Gard) was discovered to be surrounded by stag­
nant waters in those places where the Rhone had been turned
from its course. M. Cadet, of Metz, predicted that, from the
month of March, the country would certainly be ravaged by an
endemic fever, if, before summer, the river was not restored to its
old bed. The works could only be completed in autumn, and the
summer saw Roquemaure depopulated by raging fevers. {Letter
front M. Cadet, of Melz, to the Minister of the Interior, March 23,
1820.)
Digitized by C>ooQle
128 PREDICTIONS INFLUENCING AGRICULTURE.
instead of the philosophical observer, let us sub­
stitute a Thaumaturgist; would not the coincidence
of the prophecy and of the disaster strike many
minds, even at this day, with a deep and religious
terror 1
CHAPTER VI.
Sterility of the Soil.—The Belief in the Means which the Thau-
maturgists were supposed to possess for causing Sterility arose
particularly from theLanguage ofEmblems.— Sterility produced
naturally.—Cultures which injure one another.—Substances
which are prejudicial to Vegetation.—The Atmosphere render­
ed Pestilential.—Deleterious Powder and Nitrate of Arsenic
employed as offensive Weapons.—Earthquakes and Rumblings
of the Earth foreseen and predicted.
The threats of celestial anger were not alone
pointed at isolated individuals; they were not alone
confined to the production of transitory diseases :
they raised alarms in a whole people that the earth
would deny them its fruits; that mortals would
only inhale death from the air; that under their
feet the trembling earth would sink and open in
abysses; or that rocks, shaken from their founda­
tions, would roll upon them and crush them to
atoms.
The habit of observation, assisted by reflection
and enlightened by reasoning, imparts to mankind
some plausible idea of the results of the different
cultures to which he devotes himself. Thales, in
purchasing beforehand a crop of olives, the fecun­
dity of which he had prophesied,
* proved to the
Milesians that the philosopher depended only upon
his scientific skill to obtain wealth. If the Thau­
maturgist also could thus predict an abundant har­
vest, he might be able to predict others less abun­
dant ; being enabled also to foresee a true famine,
* Diogen. Laert. in Thalet,
Digitized by UooqIc
PREDICTIONS INFLUENCING AGRICULTURE. 129
he has the power of threatening the people with
it. Should the event justify his prophecy, he
would be regarded not merely as the interpreter,
but as the agent of the gods, who had thus punish­
ed guilty mortals by the scourge of famine.
Nevertheless, how distant is this point still from
that absolute sterility with which the imprecations
of a sacred man, or the maledictions of a perfidi­
ous magician, were formerly believed to strike
plants, trees, or even the soil! This remark will
scarcely escape a judicious reader, when he reflects
that, according to the principle upon which I have
constantly reasoned, some positive facts have given
birth to the opinion of the possibility of this terri­
ble means of vengeance. In the eloquent menaces
that JEschylus ascribes to Eumenides
* I can only
perceive the expressions of poetic enthusiasm and
the hyperbole which belong to the Oriental style.
In vain I recall to remembrance the inclination
which man always has had to ascribe to the wrath
of the gods scourges, the cause and the remedy
of which nature has hidden from him. The edifice
which I have attempted to raise is shaken, if the
belief in apparent miracles has no other origin
than some transient predictions and the dreams of
a terrified imagination.
Let us first retrace the influence of the language
of emblems, and then observe how its power has
been effectual in misleading writers of veracity,
when they have related similar menaces, the ac­
complishment of which they have themselves wit­
nessed in foreign countries.
For a long period of time, when a conquered
city was condemned to eternal desolation, salt was
sown among the ruins; and, in the face of experi­
ence to the contrary, the property of rendering the
* Alschyl. in Eumm., vers. 783, 786, 803, 806, &c.
II. I
Digitized by kjOOQle
130 PREDICTIONS INFLUENCING AGRICULTURE.
earth unfruitful was for a long time attributed to
salt. Let us turn our eyes toward those climates
where, in immense deserts, salt is seen everywhere
effloresced on the surface of the ground. There
one privileged spot may be seen productive. An
enemy invades it, disperses its inhabitants, fills up
its wells, turns the course of its rivers, destroys the
trees, and burns up its vegetation; and this previ­
ously fruitful spot is confounded with the desert
which surrounds it; and almost immediately, under
a burning sky, the despoiled soil becomes covered
with the saline efflorescence, the forerunner of fu­
ture sterility. The emblem of salt strewed upon
the earth was most expressive, therefore, in those
countries where this phenomenon was knownbet­
ter than an edict, better than the sound of trumpets
and the voice of heralds, it proclaimed the will of
the destroyer; it announced that the country should
remain uninhabited, without cultivation, and de­
voted to eternal sterility. The menace was not
vain, even where climate and the effects of time
did not hasten the work of violence.
What a conqueror is to a weak people, so is the
wicked man to a defenseless fellow-being. The
Roman law punished as a capital offense that
which may appear to us as a trivial delinquency,
namely, the act of putting stones on the inheritance
of another person. But in the country to which
this law belonged, in Arabia, Scopelism,
* such was
the name of the crime, was tantamount to the threat
that whoever should dare to cultivate an inheritance
thus insulted would perish by a violent death. That
this mute language was understood, and that the
field remained from that time uncultivated and
* Scopelismus, lapidum positio—lapides ponere indicio futures quod
m quis eum agrum coluigset male Ietho periturus essetf tfc.—Digest..
lib. xlvii., tit. xi., $ ix.
Digitized by tjOOQle
PREDICTIONS INFLUENCING AGRICULTURE. 131
sterile, was a sufficient reason for the seriousness
of the punishment carried out against this emble­
matical threat. Let us transfer, without any expla­
nation, the indication of this fact into a different
order of things; the emblem of Scopelism, like that
of salt, would soon be regarded as a physical agent
capable of destroying the earth by rendering it un­
alterably sterile.
Sterility is known to be the result of natural
causes. Agriculturists know that every perennial
plant with a tap-root, .such as the luzerne,
* sown
at the foot of young and delicate trees, injures
their growth, and frequently destroys them. The
Thaumaturgists were able to collect several ob­
servations of this kind; and they thus acquired the
power of predicting the unfruitfulness of trees, and
the barrenness of cornfields, when the imprudence
of the cultivator placed such mischievous neighbors
near useful vegetables; and, as may be supposed,
their predictions were frequently fulfilled. The
parable of the Gospel, which describes tares being
sown in the night among the wheat, by the enemy
of the proprietor,! evidently alludes to a known
and even a common delinquency. No police, and
especially no rural police, existed among the an­
cient nations; hence every one was the guardian
of his own property. It was then much easier
than it is at this day to injure a field already
sown, by treacherously scattering other seed over
it, whether it was expected that the person thus
acting would profit by the antipathy existing be­
tween diverse plants, or that the result would be
the choking of the good grain by the excess of a
useless plant.
From the judicial avowals of several pretended
* Medicago laciniata, a native of Syria.—Ed.
t TA« Gospel of St. Matthew, chap, xiii., vers. 24-20.
Digitized by tjOOQle
132 PREDICTIONS INFLUENCING AGRICULTURE.
sorcerers, it appears that, among the inventions
taught in the Sabbat, the composition of powders
for injuring every kind of crops, for drying up
plants, and blasting fruits,
* was included. All
that has been related by these wretched beings as
to their occupations there, we have considered as
dreams; but as dreams founded upon the recollec­
tion of ancient practices. To the tradition of the
possibility of the assumed miracle was attached the
idea that it could still be worked.
A Chinese book,f the antiquity of which is un­
doubted, notices the crime of destroying a tree by
watering it secretly with poisoned water. Accord­
ing to ancient traditions, individuals, envious of the
fertility of their neighbors’ fields, threw upon them
a Stygian waterj to destroy their fertility. Theo­
phrastus, quoted by St. Clement of Alexandria,
affirms, that if the shells of beans are buried among
the roots of a tree recently planted, the tree de­
cays^ To obtain a similar result, even to a great
extent, Democritus has directed that the roots of
trees should be watered with the juice of the hem­
lock (conium maculatum), in which the flowers of
the lupine have been steeped.|| I am ignorant
whether experience has ever confirmed these as­
sertions; but they indicate that some efficacious
secret was concealed under a veil, more or less
dense, and that the ancients were not ignorant of
the existence of a process capable of destroying
plants and trees. Recent experiments have proved
that, to succeed in procuring such an event, it is
♦ Llorente, Histoire de VInquisition, tome iii., pp. 440-447.
t Le Livre des Recompenses et des Peines, translated by M. Stan­
islas Jullien, p. 346.
t See the Scholiaste of Stace. in Thebaid., lib. ii., v. 274, verbo
Telchines.
6 St. Clement, Alexandr. Stromat., lib. iii.
fl Piin., Hist. Nat., lib. xviii., cap. vi.
Digitized by UooqIc
THE AIR RENDERED PESTILENTIAL. 133
only necessary to spread upon the soil a combina­
tion of sulphur and lime, in the proportion of fif­
teen parts of the former to one of the latter; a
combination which is found to be formed in the
residue of the lixivium, which js used in making
curd soap, and in the residue of the artificial fabri­
cation of soda. It is also proved, by daily observa­
tion, that the waters proceeding from coal-pits, and
from the workings of metallic mines, first change,
and finally destroy vegetation, upon every soil
which is watered by them: and is it not natural to
connect these waters with that Stygian water, of
which the Telchines, a race celebrated in the art
of excavating mines, and of working brass and
iron, were accused of employing for so guilty a
purpose 1 But it matters little, as we have thus
observed more than once, whether these mischie­
vous properties were formerly known or discovered
by the founders of modern sorcery : the possibility
of their being known is unquestionable; and the
belief established among the ancients, and verified
by the assertions of Theophrastus and Democritus,
is unrefuted, that a natural process was sufficient to
realize this possibility.
Let us apply the same reasoning to the terrible
art of rendering the air pestilential. Natural phe­
nomena were doubtless, at first, attributed to the
vengeance of the gods. Under the government
of Marcus Aurelius, a temple at Seleucia was d?
livered up to be plundered; the soldiers having
disco’ ered a narrow aperture, entered it, and broke
open a door which had been carefully shut by the
Chaldean priests. Suddenly there was exhaled a
lethiferous vapor, the disastrous effects of which
extended itself to some distance.
* It was, I be­
lieve, a gas similar to that which sometimes escapes
* Aram. Marcell., lib. xxiii.—Jul. Capitol, in ^®Zio-Vero.
Digitized by UooqIc
134 THE AIR RENDERED PESTILENTIAL.
from mines, and from deep and deserted wells.
*
From two gulfs, one near to the borders of the
Tigris, and another situated near Hierapolis of
Phrygia, there arises, in the same manner, a vapor
mortal to every animal that inhales it.t
According to a tendency which we have already
noticed, ait has attempted to imitate the modes of
destruction which nature produces; and, at differ­
ent periods, certain traces have been found of these
means having been employed as offensive weapons.
In 1804, the French government accused the En­
glish sailors of having attempted to poison the
atmosphere of the coasts of Bretagne and of Nor­
mandy, by leaving on shore horns containing burn­
ing nitrate of arsenic. Several of these horns being
extinguished, they were collected, and their con-
♦ The deleterious gas mentioned in the text must have been
chiefly, if not wholly, carbonic acid gas, which frequently accu­
mulates in old cellars that have been long shut up, especially if
they have contained any fermentable vegetable matter. It was
not thefire-damp., or gas exhaled in mines, which consists almost
solely of light carbureted hydrogen, and which issues from fis­
sures in the beds of coal, and, being light, collects in the upper
part of the mines, owing to deficient ventilation. This gas is very
explosive when mingled with atmospheric air, and, prior to Sir
Humphry Davy’s invention of the safety-lamp, frequently proved
dangerous to miners, when the atmosphere of it sank so low down
in the pit as to be fired by their candles; but it is not so poison­
ous when breathed as carbonic acid gas,fixed air, which destroys
life even when mixed with an equal portion of pure atmospheric
air. Carbonic acid gas causes a sensation of giddiness, ringing
in the ears, dimness of sight, drowsiness, and hurried respiration;
and the debility which also attends it comes on so suddenly, that
the person is unable to make his escape, and fails down insensi­
ble : hence the dread and horror which it must have
* occasioned
in the Roman soldiers, when their comrades nearest the door
were immersed in the flood of this gas which rolled from the
apartment. This gas is also considerably heavier than atmos­
pheric air; and, therefore, when those who fell first were attempt­
ed to be raised by their companions, the necessity of stooping
would bring them also into the same atmosphere, and thus in­
crease the number of victims. Ignorance would be most likely
to deem their deaths a punishment for the sacrilege.—Ed.
t Amm. Marcell., lib. xxiii. The modern bambuk-calasi.—Ed.
Digitized by C>ooQle
THE AIR RENDERED PESTILENTIAL. 135
tents having been chemically examined, no doubt
remained of the nature of the composition with
which they were charged.
* The enemies of
France, in this instance, only renewed and per­
fected an invention which, in Europe, followed
close upon the invention of cannon. At that time,
bombs and grenades were filled with a powder
prepared for the purpose; and these projectiles,
in bursting, diffused, to a great distance, an odor
so deleterious, that it proved mortal to all who had
the misfortune to inhale it. Paw, who has discov­
ered in an Italian pyrotechnic the composition of
this offensive powder, recollects that a trial of it
was made in London with a melancholy result.!
A long time before, if we may believe Strabo,| the
Soanes, not contented with wounding their enemies
with poisoned weapons, endeavored to suffocate,
with poisonous exhalations, those warriors whom
they were unable to strike. It is evident that this
poisonous odor developed itself only in the ene­
my’s ranks; for, if such had not been the case, it
would have first destroyed the men who carried
the weapons which concealed it. It will be neces­
sary to distinguish these weapons from poisoned
arrows, and to suppose that they were filled with a
composition similar to the exploding powder; a
composition which acted either on the rupture of
the vessel containing it, or by the contact of fire.
As this secret was known by the barbarians of the
Caucasus, it might have been also known among
more enlightened nations. Its nature might have
* See the newspapers of 1801.
t Paw. Traitc des Pieches empoisonnies (inserted in vol. xii., in
4to., of the translation of Pliny’s Natural History), pp. 460-470.
Paw calls in question the efficacy of this offensive powder. We
think, with him, that it was trifling, since the use of it was so
speedily abandoned.
J Strabo, lib. xi.
Digitized by CjOOQle
136 EARTHQUAKES PREDICTED.
been understood also by the Thaumaturgists, and
have been made the origin of a belief in the appa­
rent miracles which rendered the air pestilential.
If the iniquity of man can injure the fertility of
the soil and the salubrity of the air, it is not so
easy for him to shake the earth, and to cause
mountains to roll upon the people, whom his ha­
tred has devoted to destruction. But ifsigns which
escape the observation of the unobserving vulgar
warn him of the approach of some great convulsion
of nature, and if he dares to predict it, whether
with the intention of calling his fellow-creatures to
prevent the sad consequences of the event, or to
induce them to see in it the effects of the vengeance
of the gods, what glory and what power will be
his share, when the event shall have confirmed his
prediction 1
lamblichus
* attributes the possession ofthis won­
derful sagacity to Pythagoras, to Abaris, to Epi-
menides, and to Empedocles. At a much later
period, in the thirteenth century of our era, a monk,
wishing to persuade the Emperor Andronicus to
recall the patriarch St. Athanasius, threatened him
with divers scourges, and, among others, with that
of an earthquake; and three days had scarcely
elapsed when many shocks, not indeed dangerous,
were felt in Constantinople.!
* lamblich., Vit. Pythagor., lib. i., cap. xxviii.
t Pachymer., lib. x., cap. xxxiv.
t Diogen. Laert. in Pherecyd.—Plin., Hist. Nat., lib. ii., cap.
Ixxix.—Maxim. Tyr., Dusertat. iii., v.—Cicer., De Divinat., lib.
Is it necessary to reject this recital, and the
assertion of lamblichus; and should we forget
that Pherecydes, the first master of Pythagoras, in
tasting, or only in looking at the water drawn from
a well, announced to the inhabitants of Samos an
approaching earthquake or ought we, with Ci­
Digitized by Google
EARTHQUAKES PREDICTED. 137
cero, to reply, that the thing is impossible 1 Thu­
cydides was enabled to discover the connection
that exists between volcanic fermentations and
earthquakes ; and the appearance of water, gener­
ally pure and clear, becoming suddenly muddy
and sulphurous, was sufficient to enable him to
foresee the phenomenon which he predicted. In
1693, at Bologna, in Italy,the waters became muddy
on the eve of an earthquake.
* This observation
is not singular: the water of several wells became
equally muddy a few days before the earthquake
which was felt in Sicily in the month of February,
1818.1 The symptoms of the. approaching disas­
ter might even appear much sooner. There was
an eruption of a volcano at the summit of Mount
Galoungoun, in the island of Java, on the 8th of
October, 1822. In the preceding month of July,
the waters of the Tji-Kounir, a river which rises in
the same mountain, were seen to become troubled;
they had a bitter taste, and exhaled a sulphureous
odor; and a whitish scum| settled upon the legs
of travelers who forded the river at that time.
The prophecy of Pherecydes, founded upon ob­
servations of a similar description, was that of ft
sage, and not of an impostor.
From the passage quoted from lamblichus, it
may be concluded, that the art of foreseeing earth­
quakes was common among the first masters of
the Pythagorean school. It must have been a
portion of the secret science among the ancients.
i., cap.l.—lamblichus (Fit. Pythag., lib. i., cap. xxviii.) attributes
this prediction to Pythagoras.
* Histoire de VAcademic des Sciences, annee 1696.—Buffon, Hist,
Nat,—Preuves de la Theorie de la Terre, art. xi.
t Agathino Longo, Memoire Historique et Physique sur le Trem-
blement de Terre, dj-c.—Bibliotheca Italiana, September, 1818.—Bilh
liotheque Univ. Sciences, tome ix., p. 263.
| Bulletin de la Societe de Geographic, tome xii., p. 204.
Digitized by C>ooQle
138 EARTHQUAKES PREDICTED
Pausanias, who believed these phenomena to be
the effect of the wrath of the gods, enumerated,
however, the signs which preceded and announced
them.
* Pliny adds to the indication of these signs,
the number of which he does not omit to reckon,
the fetor and the change of color of the water
of the neighboring wells. He also discusses the
proper methods of preventing the return of the
scourge, and advances the plausible opinion, that
they may sometimes succeed, by digging very deep
wells in those countries where it has been felt.t
Let us suppose, that, in the island of Hayti, a
strange population were to establish itself. While
living under the most beautiful sky, and in the
midst of productions of a fruitful and rather prodi­
gal soil, let us imagine that a subterraneous noise,
a tremendous sound, should occur to alarm their
minds, and that the chief who conducted the colony
to this shore, assembles them together. Let us
then suppose that he announces to them that the
gods, irritated with their want of submission to his
commands, are going to shake the earth from the
depths of the valleys to the summits of the hills.
They would, probably, laugh at a prediction that
appeared to belie the universal tranquillity; and
they would give themselves up to indifference, to
pleasure, and to sleep. But suddenly the threat
is accomplished in all its horror. The terrified
population simultaneously prostrate themselves,
and the chief is triumphant. How often will not
this phenomenon be renewed before experience
teaches what at this day is known by the most
ignorant of the blacks, that the noise known by the
name of Gouffre, is a presage, as natural as it is
certain, of an approaching earthquake, and not the
* Pausanias, Achaic., cap. xxiv.
t Plin., Hist. Nat., lib. ii., cap. Ixxxi., Ixxxii.
Digitized by tjOOQle
EARTHQUAKES PREDICTED. 139
voice of an angry god, nor the announcement of
his inevitable revenge!
It was a subterraneous noise of a particular kind
which announced to a Peruvian observer the earth­
quake which desolated Lima in 1828,
* and led
him to predict it four months before it occurred.
Nine lusters before the above period, a similar
prediction had proved the perspicuity of a French
scholar. In 1782, M. Cadet, of Metz, observed
very thick sulphureous vapors over all the plain
which serves as a basis to Calabria. He concluded,
from this appearance, that the country was threat­
ened with an earthquake, and publicly predicted
the disaster, which took place at the commence­
ment of 1785.1 .
About the same time, a subterraneous road was
dug through the Alpine mountains, called Tenda,
with the intention of opening a direct communica­
tion between Piedmont and the province of Nice :
the nature of the mountain rendered the soil easily
penetrable to the filtration of waters. The same
scholar announced the fast approaching falling
in of the subterraneous passage, and solicited
the suspension of the works; but the engineers
did not dream of profiting by his counsels un­
til the event proved how well his fears had been
founded.}
♦ M. de Vidaurre. This scholar revived the opinion of Pliny
regarding the possibility of preventing earthquakes by digging
very deep wells. See the Moniteur Universel, No. for August 27,
1828.
+ The notes in which he had consigned his prediction were
added to the archives of an agricultural society, founded in Cor­
sica by the intendant, M. de Boucheporn. The latter, writing in
April 23, 1783, to M. Joli de Fleury, then minister, recalls the
prediction of M. Cadet, with details much anterior to the event.
M. Denon also recalls it in a letter addressed to M. Cadet, dated
April 19, 1783.
t M. Cadet, of Metz, Histoire Naturelle de la Corse, note aa, pp.
138-147,
Digitized by UooqIc
140 PREDICTIONS FROM METEOROLOGY.
Anaximander
* foretold to the Lacedaemonians a
subterranean concussion, and the fall of the Peak
of Taygetes ; doubtless his foresight depended on
the observation of analogous symptoms as to the
nature of the soil, as well as of phenomena which
were the precursors ofan earthquake. Anaximan­
der, Pherecydes, the Peruvian observer, and our
own countryman, were only philosophers; but had
any one of them been a soothsayer, the adoration
for the Thaumaturgist would have succeeded to
the esteem for the sage.
CHAPTER VII.
Meteorology.—The Art offoreseeing Rain, Storms, and the Direc­
tion of the Winds; this is converted, in the Minds of the Vul­
gar, into the Power of granting or refusing Rain and favorable
Winds.—Magical Ceremonies for conjuring a Hail-storm.
Difficult to be foreseen, and followed by re­
sults still more difficult to be repaired, are the
crumbling of mountains, earthquakes, and all great
convulsions of nature; but they are happily rare.
Such is not the case, however, with many atmos­
pheric phenomena, attendant upon the course of
the seasons, the months, and the days; phenomena,
the occurrence, the repetition, and the variation of
which promise to mankind enjoyments or priva­
tions, and the laws regulating which, although for­
merly inscrutable, have yet been at length partially
revealed to persevering and reflective observation.
The knowledge which has been acquired on this
subject constitutes meteorology; a branch of sci­
ence destitute of fixed principles, and without par-
* Plin., Hist. Nat., lib. ii., cap. Ixxviii.—Cicer., De Divinat. lib.
i., cap. i. Anaximander was a Milesian, a disciplex>f Thales, and
a consummate mathematician for the period in which he lived.—
Ed.
Digitized by C>ooQle
PREDICTIONS FROM METEOROLOGY. 141
ticular truths, but which has been, in all ages, mogt
powerful in acting on the credulity of mankind *
It influences the fate of the labors of the year; of
the subsistence of the morrow, or that of to-day ;
and, stimulated by present sufferings, or by anx­
iety for the future, the curiosity which awakens the
desire to know what may be expected from atmos­
pheric phenomena becomes excusable to man,
when we consider his hopelessness, the intensity
of his fears, and the excess of his gratitude under
such circumstances. Every menace would be list­
ened to with religious submission; and all prog­
nostics that call for salutary precautions against
great disasters, or, in pressing urgency, reanimate
almost extinguished hope, would be hailed as ce­
lestial inspirations.!
* The limited extent of information in meteorology, and the
laws which regulate aerial phenomena and perturbations, is mor­
tifying to the pride of science. When atmospheric changes oc­
cur of a violent and desolating nature, man becomes conscious
how little he is acquainted with their causes ; and how inadequate
his means are even to shield himself from the fury of elements
'which he can not control. He is forced to tremble upon his hearth,
the slave to the apprehension of anticipated evil; and, powerless,
to await the spontaneous lulling of the sweeping tempest and the
driving hurricane. It is, however, gratifying to know that, of
late years, some progress has been made in the philosophy of
storms ; and we must, therefore, hope that a more effectual inves­
tigation into the origin and laws of these overwhelming disturb­
ers of atmospheric quiet, may lead to some practical means of
evading their fury, and foretelling their approach. Some pro­
gress, indeed, has been made in the latter: for example, in the
hurricane which desolated Barbadoes in 1831, Mr. Simons, of St.
Vincent, before it reached that island in its passage from Barba­
does, observed a threatening cloud in the north, of an olive-green
color, which indicated an approaching aerial conflict. He has­
tened home, and, by nailing up his doors and windows, saved his
habitation from the general calamity. Jf the power of predicting
atmospheric conflicts formerly existed, when ignorance contem­
plated every acquirement which was not universal as a direct
gift from Heaven, we can scarcely wonder that those who pos­
sessed meteorological knowledge were regarded as little less than
divinities.—ED. .
t Many valuable observations on the statistics and philosophy
Digitized by UooQle
142 PREDICTIONS FROM METEOROLOGY.
“ The cape of Good Hope is famous for its tem­
pests and for the singular cloud that precedes them;
this cloud appears at first like a little round spot
in the sky; and sailors call it the bull’s-eye. In
the land of Natal, a little cloud also forms itself
like the bull’s-eye of the cape of Good Hope, and
from this cloud there seems to issue a terrible wind
that produces the same effects. Near the coast of
Guinea, storms are also announced like those of
the cape of Good Hope, by a small, black cloud;
while the rest of the heaven is usually very serene,
and the sea calm.”* Is it requisite to direct the
attention of the reader to the consideration of the
marvelous predictions produced by the knowledge
of these symptoms of approaching storms, and the
astonishment thereby created among men who
could have no cognizance of them ; or ask him if
he would be astonished at Anaxagoras and Demo­
critus in Greece, and Hipparchus at Rome, all
three accustomed, no doubt, by observation, to
judge of the state of the atmosphere, having in fine
weather predicted abundant rains, which of course,
when they fell, justified the clear-sightedness of the
three naturalists If When a drought had lasted
a long time in Arcadia, the priest of Jupiter Ly-
caeus addressed prayers and offered a sacrifice to
of storms are contained in the treatises of Lieutenant-Colonel
Reid, of the Royal Engineers; and those of Mr. William C. Red­
field, of New-York; and there is much reason for hoping that
the foundation having been laid by these able observers, a super­
structure may be raised, honorable to science and practically
beneficial to the human race.—En.
* Billion, Hist. Nat. Preuves de la Theorie de la Terre, art. XV.
t Plin., Hist. Nat., lib. xviii., cap. xxviii.—Diogen. Laert. in
Thalet.—Cicer., De Divinat., lib. i., cap. iii.—Aristot., Polit., lib.
i., cap. ii. Hipparchus was an astronomer, who flourished be­
tween the 154th and 163d Olympiads. He predicted the times of
eclipses, discovered anew star, and also the precession of the
equinoxes, and the parallax of the planets. After a life of labor
in the cause of science, he died 123 b.c.—Ed.
Digitized by C>ooQle
PREDICTIONS FROM METEOROLOGY. 143
the fountain Hagno; and then toucned the surface
of the water with an oak branch. Suddenly there
arose a vapor, a mist, and a cloud, which soon dis­
solved into abundant rain. The priest, no doubt,
did not attempt to operate the assumed miracle
until promising circumstances guarantied success.
Thus, in modern Europe, the priests never carry
the shrines or images of saints in procession, or
order solemn prayers for the restoration of fair
weather or for rain, until they are able to reckon
on the near approach of the one or the other.
Many atmospheric phenomena exercise so great
an influence on agricultural labors, that to the art
of foreseeing the one is naturally joined the hope
and the possibility of divining the success of the
other.
* There is nothing at all improbable in a
fact related by Democritus and Thales, who, it is
said, were able to foretell what would be the prod­
uce of the olive-trees. These philosophers only
made use of their success to prove to the detractors
of study how science might lead to wealth. If
they had pretended, however, that heaven had re­
vealed its secrets to them, they would have been
listened to with greater admiration. Science, cul­
tivated by the followers of learning, or by the dis­
ciples of the priesthood, has been able to extend
its foresight still further; and, consequently, obser­
vations on the habitual course of the winds and
tides of certain latitudes, would enable either an
* Simple observation alone is often sufficient to enable such
predictions to be successfully advanced. Sir Isaac Newton, one
fine morning, taking an accustomed ride, was accosted by a cow­
herd, and assured that he would soon be overtaken by a shower.
As the sky was cloudless and the sun brilliant, Sir Isaac disre­
garded the remark and rode on ; but, before he had proceeded far,
a heavy shower fell. The philosopher immediately rode back to
ascertain the foundation of the prediction. “ Well, sir,” replied
the countryman, “all I know about it is this—my cow always
twirls her tail in a particular way before a shower.”—Ed.
Digitized by UooQle
144 METEOROLOGY AN AID TO MAGIC.
oracle or a philosopher to announce the success or
unfortunate issue of a voyage. Thus, in the pres­
ent day, such issues have been predicted many
years previously, by anticipating what obstacle the
movement, which carries the icebergs to the east
or to the west would oppose to the attempts of
navigators to reach the Arctic Pole; and that as
long a time as they would take for sailing from the
west to the east would be required also for the
voyage. But to an ignorant people, only accus­
tomed to regard the physical sciences environed
by the marvelous, these circumspect announce­
ments of learned foresight would not have sufficed;
in order to satisfy impatient desire, it was, there­
fore, necessary to transform these prognostics into
positive assurances. Thus the priests of Samoth-
race
* promised to those who came to consult them
favorable winds and a happy voyage. If the prom­
ise was not realized, it was easy to exculpate the
divinity, by alledging (whatever might have been
the faults of the candidate, or the harm done to his
boat) that he was guilty of some crime, or, what
was worse, some want of faith.
* Samothrace is situated on the Thracian coast, and peopled
by Pelasgians. It was so celebrated for its mysteries, that it ob­
tained the name of sacred; and its shrines were resorted to by
pilgrims from every country.—Ed.
t Pomponius Mela, lib. iii., cap. vi.
t Diogen.Laert.,libviii.,cap.lix.—St. Clem., Alex. Stromat.,Hb.v.
The Druidesses of the isle of Sena also pretend­
ed to the power of appeasing waves and winds ;t
and, doubtless, it was by the same artifice they
preserved their title to infallibility.
Empedocles and lamblichus only repeated the
language of the temples, when the one, in his ver­
ses, boasted of being able to teach the art of en­
chaining or loosing the winds, exciting the tem­
pest, and calming the heavens while the other
Digitized by kjOOQle
METEOROLOGY AN AID TO MAGIC. 145
ascribes to Abaris and Pythagoras a power no less
extended.
*
* lamblich., Vit. Pythagor., lib. i., cap. xxviii.
t Sopater was a native of Apamea, and like his master, lambli­
chus, pretended to possess supernatural powers; so that, in some
degree, he may be considered as having brought his death upon
himself.—Ed.
t Suidas, verbo Sopater.—Photius, Bibliothec., cod. cli.—Euna-
pius, in yEdesio.—Sozomen, Hist. Eccles., lib. i., cap. v.
II. K
Such promises were too flattering to credulity
not to be taken in the most literal sense. Con­
trary winds were, at Ulysses’ return, shut up in a
leather bottle by JEolus, and liberated by the im­
prudent companions of the hero. The Laplanders
believe that their magicians possess the power at­
tributed by Homer to the god of the winds. Do
not let us mock their ignorance; at least, it does
not render them unjust or cruel.
The belief that endowed the adepts of philoso­
phy with the power of arresting and enchaining
the winds, existed in the fourth century, even
among men enlightened by Christian knowledge.
Constantinople, incumbered with an immense pop­
ulation, suffered from famine. Vessels freighted
with corn were stopped at the entrance of the
straits; they could only pass them by a south
wind, and they still awaited this propitious gale.
Jealous of the favors which the philosopher Sopa-
teri received from Constantine, the courtiers ac­
cused him of having enchained the winds, and
caused the famine; and the weak emperor had
him put to the torture, and murdered.^ It matter­
ed little whether the denouncers themselves be­
lieved in the truth of the accusation ; it is clear
that the prince and the people regarded the thing
as possible, and as a fact of which many examples
were already known.
We shall no longer doubt this, when we find that
Digitized by tjOOQle
146 METEOROLOGY AN AID TO MAGIC.
in the eighth and ninth centuries, among the number
of magicians proscribed by Charlemagne, some
were designated by the name of tempestarii, or
those who regulated storms, tempests, and hail.
*
* De Auguriis et aliis Maleficiis.—Capitul., lib. i., cap. IxxxiiL
(12mo., Paris, 1588.) See also Ducange, Glossary verb. Tempet-
tarii-—■ Tempestuarii.
t Le Moniteur Universel of the 23d August, 1828.
Did this superstitious belief, and the agitation
excited by it everywhere, disappear before the
progress of civilization i We believe not. On
one occasion, when excessive rains were unpro-
pitious to the labors, and destroyed the hopes, of
the agriculturist, the long continuation of these
evils were attributed by the multitude to the sor­
ceries of a woman who had arrived in the country
to exhibit the spectacle, a hundred times repeated,
of an aerostatic ascension. This persuasion spread
and acquired so much force that the aeronaut was
obliged to take precautions for her safety, or to
run the risk of being burned alive by men about
as enlightened as those who formerly applauded
the murder of Sopater. Who, we may inquire,
were these men 1 They were peasants in the en­
virons of Brussels, and the inhabitants of the town
itself; and the date of the event was so recent as
1828.1 The same case may again occur in another
century, or in three centuries hence, or as long as
those, who, pretending to the exclusive right of
instructing the people, make them believe in magic
and sorcery. Those who have accorded to the
wonder-worker the power of inflicting plagues,
attributed to them, with not more reason, that of
being able to cure those produced by nature. In
order to confirm an opinion so favorable to their
credit, it is only necessary to remark, that the pos­
sessors of sacred science have disguised more than
Digitized by tjOOQle
METEOROLOGY AN AID TO MAGIC. 147
once the most simple operations under a magical
veil.
They ordered, for example, the husbandman
who desired that in the season his fruit-trees should
be laden with fruit, to cover them with a band of
straw on the night celebrated by the Polytheists as
the renewing of the invincible sun; and in the
Christian Church, as the coming of our Savior,
* the
night when the fcun, supposed to be enchained for
ten days by the winter solstice, begins to arise
again toward the equator, and on which we often
find cold suddenly and intensely developed. Ex­
perience has proved that this precaution will effect­
ually protect trees from the hurtful effects of frost.
In the present day, natural physics are consulted
for preservatives against hail: magic formerly was
consulted for that purpose. The inhabitants of
Cleone in the Argolide, imagined they could dis­
tinguish, from the appearance of the sky, the
approach of frost that would endanger their crops ;
and immediately they endeavored, by offering
sacrifices to the gods, to avert the evil :t other na­
tions sang sacred hymns for this purposeThese
were only acts of piety; like the secret taught by
some theologians to avert the hail supposed to be
conjured by witchcraft, which consisted in making
signs of the cross, and such long continued prayers,
that, in the interval, the rain might have time to
cease.§
But, in ancient Greece, men pretended to obtain
by enchantments11 what elsewhere was only asked
through the mercy of Heaven.fl Pausanias even
♦ Fromann, Tract, de Fascionatione, pp. 341, 342.
+ Senec., Quast. Nat., lib. iv., cap. vi.
j Carmina.—Plin., Hist. Nat., lib. xxviii., cap. ii.
6 Wierius, De Prastigiis Damon., lib. iv., cap. xxxii.
fl St. Justin, Quast, et Respons. ad Orthodox, quast. 31.
<The inhabitants of Methana, in Argolis, when a strong south
Digitized by Google
148 METEOROLOGY AN AID TO MAGIC.
declares that he himself witnessed the successful
issue of their magical operations.
* Until positive
experience has proved the still doubtful efficacy of
the paragreles,t we shall think that if the men who
boasted of success of this kind have sometimes
appeared to obtain it, hail would not have fallen
whether they had recourse or not to magical cere­
monies for conjuring it. It is not undesignedly
that we place modern attempts and ancient opin­
ions in juxtaposition. In the eighth century, they
hoped to avert hail and storms by pointing long
poles toward the skies. This measure reminds us
of what was recently proposed, and, fifty years
ago, was accredited by Berthollon, the naturalist.
east wind blew up the Saronic Gulf, defended themselves from
it by the following spell. They took a white cock, and having
cut the bird in halves, two men seized each a part, and then,
standing hack to back, started off in opposite directions, made the
tour of the vineyard, and returning whence they set out, buried
the remains in the earth. After this the wind might blow as it
listed, since it possessed no power to injure any man’s property
within the consecrated circle.—Pausan., ii., 34, 2, quoted in St
John's History of the Customs, of Greece, vol. ii., p. 339.
* Pausanias, Corinthiac., cap. xxxiv.
+ Tn a Report read to the Academic des Sciences, in 1826, their
efficacy is represented as somewhat doubtful. These instru­
ments, more properly called paragrandines, are intended to avert
hail-storms; and, according to Seignior Antonio Perotti and Dr.
Astolfi, they have succeeded in averting hail as efficiently as con­
ductors in obviating danger from lightning. Seignior Perotti re­
ports that, having fixed up several of them on a piece of land
containing sixteen thousand perches, both his corn and his vines
were protected, although fourteen hail-storms had occurred in the
current year, which did great mischief in the neighboring fields;
and in an official notice to the government of Milan, by the gon-
faloniere of St. Pietro, in Casale, a very favorable account, also,
is given of these protectors from hail. They are formed of metal­
lic points and straw ropes, bound together with hempen or flaxen
threads. If we admit that the ancients were acquainted with the
use of lightning conductors, we may imagine that they were also
aware of the value of the paragrandines, and employed them.
The protection from the effects of hail of certain fields by their
means might have been readily passed off as the result of super­
natural influence.—Ed.
Digitized by C>ooQle
METEOROLOGY AN AID TO MAGIC. 149
But, as at the end of the poles just mentioned,
pieces of paper inscribed with magical characters
were affixed, the custom seemed to be tainted with
sorcery, and was consequently proscribed by Char­
lemagne.
Did the sorcerers of that age, then, we may in­
quire, only revive the belief, and, perhaps, the
practice, adopted in preceding ages 1 We may
certainly reply in the negative. But what appears
decided to us is, that processes, tending to the same
ends, were very anciently described, written in
hieroglyphics; and what is still more remarkable,
they gave rise to an error already exposed by us.
*
The ignorant man, deceived by these emblems,
imagined that by imitating, well or ill, what they
represented, he should obtain the effect procured
by the success of the prescription which they
served to disguise. We may thus explain two very
ridiculous examples of Tuscan ceremonies, that,
according to Columella,) the husbandmen, instruct­
ed by experience, employed to appease violent
winds, and calm the tempest. Gaffarel furnishes
us with a third example, in a magical secret, sup­
posed to be efficacious in averting hail.f It is the
height of absurdity; yet, such is the point to
which man’s credulity will ever conduct him, that
whenever the results of science only, without its
principles, are presented to him, and displayed as
♦ See chap, viii., vol. i.
t Columella, lib. x., vers. 341-345. Further on the author
mentions a plan, probably efficacious for preserving the seed in
the ground from the approach of insects. It is the employment
of a mixture of the juice of bitter plants with the grain, together
with the lees of ashes. (Ibid., vers. 351—356.) But directly
after this, he relates a ridiculous secret for destroying cater­
pillars—a secret which the same author (lib. xi., sub. finein) pre­
tended was taught by Democritus, but which is probably only a
hieroglyphic put into practice.
t Ganarel, Curiosiles monies, chap, vii., § i.
Digitized by C>ooQle
150 ELECTRICAL PHENOMENA
the effects of supernatural power, and not as the
ideas acquired by the union of reason and expe­
rience, he believes and confides in the apparent
miracle.
CHAPTER VIII.
The Art of drawing Lightning from the Clouds.—Medals and
Traditions that indicate the Existence of that Art in Antiquity.
—Disguised under the Name of the Worship of Jupiter Elicius
and of Zeus Cataibates, it was known to Numa and many
others among the Ancients.—The Imitators of Thunder made
Use of it.—It may be traced from Prometheus; it explains the
Fable of Salmonious; it was known to the Hebrews, and the
Construction of the Temple of Jerusalem is a Proof of this.—
Zoroaster made Use of it to light the Sacred Fire, and oper­
ate in the Initiation of his Followers: his Experiments and
Miracles.—If the Chaldeans possessed the Secret, it was after­
ward lost among them.—There existed some Traces of it in
India in Ctesias’s time.—Wonders resembling those performed
through this Art, which, however, may be otherwise explained.
Of all scourges that alarm men for the pres­
ervation of their wealth and their lives, the most
fearful, although, perhaps, the least destructive, is
thunder. The fiery clouds—the roaring wind—
the shaking earth—the dazzling lightning—long
peals of roiling thunder—or, suddenly, a frightful
crash, presaging the fall of celestial fire, redoubled
in the distance by the mountain echoes—all are
so conducive in producing terror, that even the
frequent repetition of these phenomena does not
at all familiarize us with them, nor lessen the alarm
of the multitude. Realizing every thing that a
poetic imagination can picture, and the menaces
threatened by the priesthood, they are the most
imposing of all the signs of divine wrath, and
in addition, they always present to the ignorant
the direct feeling that heaven is warring against
earth.
Trembling man will supplicate the gods, and
Digitized by Google
EMPLOYED IN MAGIC. 151
appeal to those privileged mortals whom the gods
have deigned to instruct, in order to avert from his
head this instrument of terror. The miracle which
he would demand has been performed by the ge­
nius of the eighteenth century ;• but, we may ask,
was it known to the ancients 1
At first sight it seems absurd to admit such a
supposition ; for we are aware how little the an­
cients were in general acquainted with electricity.
The horse of Tiberius, at Rhodes, we are told,
threw off sparks when strongly rubbed by the
hand ; and another horse is mentioned as being
endowed with the same faculty. The father of
Theodoric, and many others, had observed it on
their own bodies :t yet these simple facts were
ranked among prodigies. We may also call to
remembrance the superstitious terrors that were
formerly awakened by the fire of St. Elmo shining
on the masts of ships, and the place the appari­
tions of light evidently held among the histories of
supernatural events ; to these proofs of ignorance,
we may add the absurd belief in the pretended
* Admitting that the ancients were acquainted with the means
of drawing lightning from the clouds, the merit of the invention
of protecting our dwellings from its direful influence is not the
less due to Dr. Franklin. That philosopher, having demonstrated
the identity of lightning and electricity, and that metals are its
best conductors, recommended that pointed metallic rods should
be raised some feet above the highest point of any building, and
continued down into the ground, as the best mode of securing
the safety of the edifice during thunder-storms. The pointed
rods attract the lightning, which then passes along their surfaces,
and is thus carried into the earth, instead of being scattered upon
the building on which they are erected.—Ed.
t Damascius in Isidor. Vit. apud Phot. Bibliolh., cod. 242. “In
winter, at Stockholm, the accumulation of animal electricity is
quite perceptible; a great quantity is visibly discharged when
people undress in a warm apartment.”—James’s Travels in Ger­
many and Sweden.—Nouvelles Annates des I oyages, tome xxxv.,
p. 13. I have often, adds our author, made the same observation
at Geneva ; and the Editor has done so, in this country, on draw­
ing off silk stockings in a dark room.
Digitized by CjOOQle
152 ELECTRICAL PHENOMENA
preservatives against lightning. Tarchon, in order
to guard against thunder-strokes, as he terms them,
surrounded his dwelling with the white bryony.
*
Here, however, a legitimate suspicion is aroused.
Tarchon, the disciple of the mysterious Tages—
Tarchon, the founder of the Theurgism of the an­
cient Etruscans, might very probably have alledged
the efficacy of these ridiculous means, in order to
enable him more effectually to conceal the true
secret that preserved his habitation and temple
from lightning. A similar stratagem has, perhaps,
been the reason why the property of averting
lightning was attributed to the laurels that sur­
rounded the temple of Apollo—a virtue regarded
as real, in spite of the evidence throughout all
antiquity to the contraiy, and which caused the
laurel to be consecrated, until nearly our own time,
in all poetical language.
The same may be alledged of the apparitions of
light, of which ancient histories discourse. All can
not be false; all can not be accidental. Wo- can
produce all these brilliant phenomena in the pres­
ent day : is it wise, therefore, we may ask, to deny
that other ages have possessed the power of pro­
ducing them 1 To balance the reasons for doubt­
ing, we may oppose many other reasons in favor
of the supposition. We will not argue from the
numerous traditions on the art of turning away
thunder. Neither will we scrutinize the origin of
the religious precept that ordered the Esthonians
* Columella, lib. x., vers. 346,347. In Hindostan, the property
of averting thunder is attributed to certain plants; and this is
the reason these plants are seen on all the houses. The white
bryony, bryonia alba, is a common weed in the hedgerows and
the woods in the south of Europe, as well as in Hindostan. It is
a climbing plant, with five-lobed, angular, cordate leaves, with
callosities on both sides. The flowers are unisexual on the same
plant, and the fruit berries of a black color in clusters. It pos­
sesses acrid and purgative properties.—Eo.
Digitized by Croogle
EMPLOYED IN MAGIC. 153
to close their doors and windows whenever there
was a thunder-storm, “ for fear of allowing the evil
spirit that God was then pursuing to enter.”* This
precept reminds us of the belief, not unfounded,
that a current of air, especially humid air, will
attract and conduct the thunder-explosion. But
what is the reason of another precept, which com­
manded this people to place two knives on the
window-ledge, in order to dispel lightning It
Whence arose the immemorial habit in the dis­
trict of Lesneven,| of placing a piece of iron,
during a thunder-storm, in the nests of hens that
are sitting ? Practices of this nature, when ob­
served in only one place, are of little importance;
but when they are found in places at considerable
distances from one another, and among nations who
have had no communication with each other, it is
almost sufficient to prove that the science that dic­
tated them was anciently possessed by men who
carried instruction among these different nations.
“ In the castle of Duino (says P, Imperati, a writer
of the seventeenth century) there was a very an­
cient custom of proving lightning. The sentinel
approached an iron pike, or a bar of iron, erected
upon the wall, and the moment he perceived a
spark, he rang the alarm-bell, to warn the shep­
herds to retire to their homes.” In the fifteenth
century, St. Bemardin, of Sienna, § reprobated,
as superstitious, the precaution used in all ages of
fixing a naked sword on the mast of a vessel to
avert the tempest.*
*
*
§
* Debray, on the Prejudices and Superstitions of the Livo-
nians, Lethonians, and Esthonians.—Nouvelles Annales des Voy­
ages, tome xviii., p. 123. t Ibid.
t Department of Fmist&re.—Cambry, Voyage dans le Depart­
ment du Finist'ere, tome ii., pp. 16, 17.
§ St. Bemardin was born at Massa, in 1380, and died at the
game place, in 1444.—Ed.
Digitized by Google
154 ELECTRICAL PHENOMENA
M.la Boissiere, in a learned commentary, whence
I have taken these two last quotations, and in which
he discusses the knowledge of the ancients in the
art of conjuring and dispelling lightning,
* speaks
of many medals that are apparently connected with
his subject. One of them, described by Duchoul,
represents the temple of Juno, the goddess of the
air: the roof that covers it is armed with pointed
blades of swords. The other, described and en­
graved by Pellerin, bears, as its legend, Jupiter
Elicius. The god appears with lightning in his
hand, while below is a man who is directing a fly­
ing stag. But we must remark, that the authen­
ticity of this medal is suspicious. Other medals,
also, described by Duchoul in his work on the
religion of the Romans, bear the inscription XV.
Viri Sacrisfaciundis, and the figure of a fish, with
bristly spikes, lying on a globe or partera. M. la
Boessiere thinks that a fish, thus armed with points,
on a globe, was the conductor employed by Numa
to attract the clouds of electric fire. And, putting
together the image of that globe, with that of a
head covered with bristly hairs, they afford an in­
genious and plausible explanation of the singular
dialogue between Numa and Jupiter, related by
Valerius Antius, and ridiculed by Arnobe, without
probably either of them comprehending its mean­
ing.! The history of the knowledge possessed by
Numa in natural physics merits more particular
examination.^
♦ Notice sur les Travawr de VAcademic du Gard, from 1812 to
1821, Nismes, 1822, 1st part, pp. 304-313. The paper of M. la
Boessiere, read in 1811, was only published in 1822.
t Arnob., lib. v.
j. Numa was more of a philosopher than a king, and cultivated
science long after he was invested with the imperial purple. Al­
though a pagan, yet he had the wisdom to dissuade the Romans
from worshiping the deity through images, on which account no
statues nor paintings of the gods appeared in the Roman temples
Digitized by tjOOQle
EMPLOYED BY MAGICIANS. 155
In an age when lightning made frequent devas­
tation, Numa, instructed, we are told, by the nymph
Egeria, attempted to propitiate it (Fulmen piare) ;
that is to say, setting aside the figurative style, to
put in practice the means of rendering it less mis­
chievous. He succeeded in intoxicating Faunus
and Picus, whose names probably are used to des­
ignate the priests of the Etruscan divinities, from
whom he learned the secret of making Jupiter, the
Thunderer, descend upon garth: and he immedi­
ately put it into execution. From this time Jupi­
ter Elicius was worshiped in Rome.
*
Here the veil of mystery is too transparent not
to be seen through. To render lightning less hurt­
ful, and to make it descend without danger from
the bosom of the clouds, was, both in effect and in
end, obtained by Franklin’s beautiful discovery, as
well as by the religious experiment repeated many
times with success by Numa. Tullus Hostilius
was less fortunate. “ They relate,” says Titus
Livy, t “ that this prince, when perusing the notes
left by Numa, found among them some instructions
on the secret sacrifices offered to Jupiter Elicius.
He attempted to repeat them; but, in his prepara­
tions for or celebration of them, he deviated from
the sacred rite; and being thus exposed to the
anger of Jupiter, aroused by a defective ceremony
(sollicitati pr&va religions), he was struck by light­
ning, and consumed in his own palace.”
An ancient annalist, quoted by Pliny, explains
this event much more explicitly, and justifies the
liberty I have taken in deviating from the sense
for upward of one hundred years. He nevertheless imposed
upon their credulity, and flattered their superstitious prejudices
in many respects.—Ed.
* Ovid, Past., lib. iii.. vers. 2S5-345.—Amob., lib. v.
t Tit. Liv., lib. i., cap. xxxi.—Plin., Hist. Piat., lib. ii., cap. hit;
lib. xxviii., cap. iv.
Digitized by Google
156 ELECTRICAL PHENOMENA
commonly given to the words of Livy by his
translators. “ Guided by Numa’s books, Tullus
undertook to invoke the aid of Jupiter by the
same ceremonies employed by his predecessor.
But having performed imperfectly the prescribed
ceremony (parum rite), he perished, struck by
thunder.”* Instead of the term ceremony, if we
substitute the word experiment, we shall perceive
that the fate of Tullus was similar to that of Pro­
fessor Reichman. In 1753 this learned man was
killed by lightning while repeating, with too little
caution, one of Franklin’s experiments.!
* Lucius Piso.—Plin., Hist. Nat., lib. xxviii., cap. ii.
f He had constructed an apparatus for observing atmospheric
electricity, and while intent upon examining the electrometer, a
large ball of electric fire glanced from the conducting-rod, which
was insulated, to the head of the unfortunate experimentalist, and
instantly deprived him of life. His companion, Sokolow, an en­
graver, who was present to delineate the appearances that might
present themselves, was also struck down, and remained sense­
less for some time; the door of the room was torn from its hinges,
and the door-case split.—Ed.
f Plin., Hist. Nat., lib. ii., cap. liii.
Pliny, in the exposition of Numa’s scientific
secrets, makes use of expressions which seem to
indicate two distinct processes: the one obtained
thunder (impetrare), the other forced it to lightning
(cogere); the one was, doubtless, gentle, noiseless,
and exempt from any dangerous explosion; the
other violent, burning, and in the form of an
electric discharge. It explains the story of Por-
senna destroying the terrible monster who deso­
lated the territory of Volsinium an explanation,
however, which can scarcely be received: because,
although it is not absolutely impossible, yet it is
very difficult and dangerous to cause a strong
electric detonation to take effect at a very distant
point; and there still remains the difficulty of
drawing to this exact point the being whom it was
Digitized by C>ooQle
EMPLOYED BY MAGICIANS. 15*7
intended to overthrow by the magical commotion.
We shall propose, elsewhere, another explanation
of this Etruscan apparent miracle. But, in the
coactive process mentioned by Pliny, and the well
known and well attested possibility of obtaining,
either from an isolated thunder rod or an immense
electrical battery, a discharge of such power that
the luminous flash, the noise, and the destructive
influence of it completely resemble the effects of
lightning, do we not perceive the secret of these
imitators of thunder who so often themselves be­
came the victims of their own success; and who,
on that account, were said to have fallen under
the vengeance of the god whose arms they dared to
usurp ? r
Among these we may name Caligula, who, ac­
cording to Dion Cassius and John of Antioch, op­
posed lightnings to lightnings, and to the voice of
thunder one not less fearful; and shot a stone to­
ward heaven at the moment the lightning fell. A
machine, not very complicated, would suffice to
produce those effects so well suited to the vanity
of a tyrant, ever trembling before the gods whom
he sought to equal.
It is not in times so modern that we are to look
for a mysterious idea which had already extended
into all the temples.
On the contrary, we must trace it into antiquity:
and we may first remark, that Sylvius Alladas (or
Remulus), eleventh King of Alba after jEneas, ac­
cording to Eusebius,
* imitated the noise of thun­
der, by making the soldiers strike their bucklers
with their swords; a fable as ridiculous as that
afterward related by Eusebius of machines which
the King of Alba made use of to imitate thunder.
“ This prince,” says Ovid, and Dionysius of Hali-
* Euseb., Chronic. Canon,, lib. i., cap. xlv. et xlvi.
Digitized by UooqIc
15S ELECTRICAL PHENOMENA
carnassus, “ despising the gods, had invented a
method of imitating the effects of lightning and
the noise of thunder, in order to pass as a divinity
in the minds of those whom he inspired with ter­
ror ; but
“ In imitating thunder, the thunderer perished.”*
the victim of his impiety, according to the priests
of his time; according to our ideas, only of his
own imprudence.
* “ Fulmineo periit imitator fulminis ictu.”—Ovid, Metamor-
phos., lib. xiv., vers. 617, 618.—Fast., lib. iv., v. 60; Dionys., Ha-
tic., lib. i., cap. xv.
+ Hygin., lib. i., fab. Ixi.—Servius in .tEneid, lib. vi., v. 508.
Here then we perceive that the secret of Numa
and Tullus Hostilius was known a century before
their time. We will not attempt to fix the epoch
when it was first possessed by the divinities, or
rather by the Etruscan priests, whose successors
taught it to the King of Rome, and to those from
whom the King of Alba must have received it;
but the tradition relative to Tarchon being ac­
quainted with a mode of preserving his dwelling
from lightning, enables us to trace it to this Theur-
gist, who was much anterior to the siege of Troy.
It is from these historical ages that we trace the
fable of Salmonius. Salmonius, said the priests,
was an impious man, blasted with lightning by the
gods for having attempted to imitate thunder.
But how unlikely is their recital! What a miser­
able imitation of thunder would the vain noise of
a chariot going over a bridge of brass appear;
while torches, to imitate lightning, were thrown
upon victims who had been condemned to death !t
How was it likely that the bridge, which could
only be of a moderate size, would, by the noise of
a chariot passing over it, astonish the people of
Digitized by Google
EMPLOYED BY MAGICIANS. 159
Greece 1
* Eustathius! advances a more plausible
idea : he describes Sahnonius as a learned man,
clever in imitating lightning and the noise of thun­
der ; and who perished the victim of his dangerous
experiments. In this perfect imitation we discover
the coactive process of Pliny—the ait of attracting
from the clouds, and condensing the electric fluid
when on the point of a fearful explosion.
* Virgil, ^Eneid, lib. vi„ v. 585, et seq.
+ Eustath. in Odyss., lib. ii., v 234.
t Salmonius was a King of Elis, whose ambition led him to
desire that he should be thought a god ; for which purpose he is
said to have taken the means mentioned in the text. But the
whole story is too absurd to deserve any reference being made to
it.—Ed.
6 Pausanias, Eliac., lib. i., cap. xiv.
II Encyclop. Method. Antiquites, tome i., art. Cataibatest
If Pausanias, loc. cit. CEnoinaus was King of Pisa, in Elis.
He was informed by an oracle that he should perish by the hands
of his son-in-law; to prevent which, being a skillful charioteer,
he determined to give his daughter in marriage only to him who
could outmatch him in driving, on condition that all who entered
AVhat confirms our conjecture is, that in Elidia,
the scenes of Salmonius’ success,J and the catas­
trophe that put an end to his life, there may be
seen, near the great altar of the temple of Olympus,
another altar§ surrounded by a balustrade, and
consecrated to Jupiter Cataibates (the descending).
“ This surname was given to Jupiter to indicate
that he demonstrated his presence on earth by the
noise of thunder, by lightning, by meteors, or by
apparitions.”|| In fact, many medals of the town
of Cyrrhus in Syria represent Jupiter armed with
lightning, with the legend Cataibates below him.
It would be difficult to mark more strongly the
connection between this word and the descent of
lightning. In the temple of Olympus also they
worshiped the altar of J upiter the Thunderer (Ke-
raunios), raised in memory of the lightning that
had destroyed the palace of CEnomaus.fi This
Digitized by tjOOQle
160 ELECTBICAL PHENOMENA
surname and that of Cataibates present, however,
different ideas to piety. It becomes difficult to
avoid confusion between Jupiter Cataibates and
Jupiter Elicius—that is, between the thunder that
descends, and the thunder constrained to descend.
It must be seen that we are obliged to reason from
analogy, in defect of positive traditions; but the
analogy receives great strength when we recollect
that Jupiter Cataibates was worshiped in the places
where Salmonius reigned, a prince whose history
closely resembles that of the two kings who, at
Alba and Rome, fell victims to the worship of
Jupiter Elicius.
It is true, that there remain no proofs of Greece
having possessed, in past ages, any idea of the
chemical experiment that proved fatal to Salmo­
nius ; but the worship of Jupiter Elicius existed
at Rome when the mysterious process used by
Numa had long ceased to be employed, and had,
indeed, been completely forgotten. A similar for­
getfulness could not hinder the worship of Jupiter
Cataibates from being kept up in Elidia.
Whenever we look back into the past, we find
the most certain vestiges of the existence of the
knowledge of the sciences.
Servius carries us back to the infancy of the
human race. “ The first inhabitants of the earth,”
said he, “ never carried fire to their altars, but by
their prayers they brought down the heavenly
fire.”* He relates this tradition when he is com­
menting on a verse where Jupiter is described by
the lists should agree to lay down their lives if conquered. Many
had suffered, when Pelops opposed him. He bribed Myrtilus, the
chariot-keeper of CEnomaus, who gave his master an old chariot,
which broke down in the course, and killed CEnomaus. Pelops
married Hippodarnia, the daughter of CEnomaus, and became
King of Pisa.—Ed.
* Servius in zEncid, lib. xii., v. 200.
Digitized by tjOOQle
ExMPLOYED BY MAGICIANS. 161
Virgil as ratifying the treaty between the nations
by a peal of thunder.
* It would, therefore, seem
that the priests regarded this miracle as a solemn
proof of the guaranty given by the gods to the
covenant.! From whom, we may inquire, had
they received the secret 2 “ Prometheus,” says
Servius,| “ discovered and revealed to man the art
of bringing down lightning (elicicndorum, fulmi-
num); and, by the process which he taught to
them, they brought down fire from the region
above (supernus ignis eliciebatur).” Among the
possessors of this secret, Servius reckoned Numa
and Tullus Hostilius. The former only employed
the celestial fire for sacred purposes; the latter
was punished for having profaned it.
The legend of the Caucasus, upon the rocks of
which an expiation for the partial divulgement of
an art so precious had for many centuries been
pending, leads us toward Asia, over which country
this art must have been diffused before it pene­
trated into Europe. The legend of Jupiter Catai-
bates has been, as we before observed, discovered
on the medals of the town of Cyrrhus. Now it is
hardly probable that the Greeks would have car­
ried this worship into a distant land, the foundation
of which could not have been posterior to the time
of Cyrus. It is, therefore, allowable to suppose
that the legend quoted was only a Greek transla-
* Audiat haec genitor qui fulmine feeders sancit.
Virgil, ^Eneid, lib. xii., v. 200.
t This use of the coactive process may explain the apparent
miracle, more than once repeated by the poets, ofclaps of thunder
being heard in calm weather.
t Servius in Virgil, Eclog, vi., v. 42. This passage, which has
been overlooked by so many modern writers, had, however, struck,
more than three centuries ago, an author who is never read but
for amusement, but who may be well read for instruction : “ Qu’est
devenu,” said Rabelais, “Part d’evoquer des cieux la foudre et le
feu celeste, jadis invente par le sage Promethee ?”—Rabelais, liv.
v., chap. Ixvii.
II. L
Digitized by Google
162 ELECTRICAL PHENOMENA
tion of the name of the thundering god ; and that
the secret to which it alluded was not anciently
unknown in Syria.
The Hebrews, however, appear to have been
acquainted with it. Ben-David has asserted that
Moses possessed some knowledge of the phenom­
ena of electricity ; and M. Hirt, a philosopher of
Berlin, has brought forward very plausible argu­
ments in support of this opinion. Michaelis
* has
even gone further. He remarks—1st. That there
is no indication that lightning ever struck the Tem­
ple of Jerusalem, during a thousand years. 2d.
That, according to Josephus,! a forest of points
either of gold or gilded, and very sharp, covered
the roof of the temple, in a manner similar to that
of the temple of Juno as figured on the Roman
medals. 3d. That this roof communicated with the
caverns in the hill upon which the temple was
situated, by means of pipes in connection with the
gilding which covered all the exterior of the build­
ing ; in consequence of which the points would
act as conductors. Now we can hardly suppose
that they accidentally performed so important a
function, or that the advantage to be derived from
them had not been calculated upon. It can not
be supposed that so many points had been placed
upon the temple merely for the birds to perch on ;
nevertheless, it is the only use assigned to them
by the historian Josephus. We may, however,
readily consider his ignorance as a proof of the
facility with which the knowledge of important
facts is forgotten.
This secret certainly does not appear to have
survived the destruction of the empire of Cyrus;
and yet there is much reason for thinking that so
* Magasin Scient. de Gottingen, 3e ann6e, 5e cahicr, 1783.
t H. Josephus, R?ll. Jud. adv. Rnmnn., lib. v.cap. xiv.
Digitized by Google
EMPLOYED BY MAGICIANS. 163
powerful an instrument for displaying apparent
miracles was not unknown to Zoroaster and his
successors.
Khondemir
* relates that the devil appeared to
Zoroaster in the midst of fire, and that he imprinted
a luminous mark on his body : and, according to
Dion Chrysostom,! when the prophet quitted the
mountain where he had so long dwelt in solitude,
he appeared shining with an unextinguishablc light,
which he had brought down from heaven ; a prodigy
similar to the experiment of the electric beatifica­
tion, and easy to be produced in the entrance of a
dark cavern. The author of the Recognitions (at­
tributed to St. Clement of Alexandria,| and St.
Gregory of Tours)§ affirms that, under the name
of Zoroaster, the Persians worshiped a son of
Shem, who, by a magical delusion, brought down
fire from heaven, or persuaded men that he pos­
sessed that miraculous power. May we not ask
whether these facts do not indicate, in other terms,
the experiments on atmospheric electricity of which
a Thaumaturgist might so easily avail himself, as
to appear sparkling with light in the eyes of a
multitude struck with admiration ?||
* D’Herbelot, Btbliofh. Orientate, art. Zerdascht,
t DioiK Chrysost., Orat. Borysthen.
| Reco%., lib. iv.
§ Greg. Turon, Hist. Franc., lib. i., cap. v.
II The Editor is of opinion that the arguments of the author, on
this part of his subject, are far from convincing, as they are found­
ed altogether upon an assumption for which there is ntf tenable
foundation. It is more probable that the accounts are wholly
fabulous, and, consequently, require no comment.—Ep.
11 Eus^be Salverte, Essai Historique et Philosophiqne sur let
Norns d'Homines, des Peuples, et des Lieuv. Additional Notes, B.
We have, in another work,!] attempted to dis­
tinguish the founder of the religion of the Magi
from the princes and priests who, to insure the
respect of the people, had assumed, after him, the*
*
*
§
Digitized by tjOOQle
164 ELECTRICAL PHENOMENA
name of Zoroaster. We are reminded of this dis­
tinction in relating what has been recorded respect­
ing Zoroaster, by authors who were ignorant of
this fact: for these writers would not have attribu­
ted to that prophet what belonged to his disciples,
the inheritors of his miraculous science. Zoroaster,
say they, perished, being burned up by the demon
whom he importuned too often to repeat his brill­
iant miracle. In other terms, they describe a nat­
ural philosopher who, in the frequent repetition of
a dangerous experiment, ended by neglecting the
necessary precautions, and fell a victim in a mo­
ment of carelessness. Suidas,
* Cedrenus, and the
chroniclers of Alexandria relate that Zoroaster,
King of Bactria, being besieged in his capital by
Ninus, prayed to the gods to be struck by light­
ning ; and when he saw’ his wish about to be ac­
complished, desired his disciples to preserve his
ashes, as an earnest for the preservation of their
powder. The ashes of Zoroaster, says the author
of the Recognitions, were collected and carried to
the Persians, to be preserved and worshiped as a
fire divinely sent down from heaven. There is
here an evident confusion of ideas: they apply to
the ashes of the prophet the worship that was never
rendered by his disciples to the sacred fire which
they had received from him. Must not this confu­
sion have arisen from the pretended origin of the
sacred fire, kindled, it was said, by lightning?
“ The Magi,” says Ammianus Marcellinusj “ pre­
served perpetually, in their furnaces, fire miracu-
* Suidas, verbo Zoroastres.—Glycas, Annal., p. ]29.
t Ammianus Marcellinus was a celebrated historian, who flour­
ished in the reigns of Constantine, Julian, and Valens. He is
supposed to be correct in his statements; and certainly he dis­
plays less of the acrimony against Christianity than is usually
found in the Writings of pagan historians, although he enjoyed
the favor of Julian, and was a warm advocate of Paganism.—Ed.
Digitized by UooqIc
EMPLOYED BY MAGICIANS. 165
lously sent from heaven.”* The Greeks, who be­
stowed on the first Persian chief the name of his
country, also relate that in the time when Perseus
was instructing some Persians in the mysteries of
the GorgonsJ a globe of fire fell from heaven.
Perseus took from it the sacred fire, which he con­
fided to the Magi; and from this event arose the
name that he imposed upon his disciples.J Here
we recollect what was said by Servius of the ce­
lestial fire which the ancient inhabitants of the
earth brought down on their altars, and which
they only employed for sacred purposes. The re­
semblance between the two traditions shows us the
origin of this fire that fell from heaven at the voice
of the institutor of magic; and was destined to
burn forever on the Pyres, in honor of the god who
had granted it to earth.
* Ammian. Marcell., lib. xxiii., cap. vi.
+ Three fabulous sisters, Stheno, Euralye, and Medusa, the
two first of whom were immortal. Their bodies were stated to
be covered with impenetrable scales ; their hands were of brass,
their heads covered with snakes, their teeth like the tusks of the
wild boar, and their eyes capable of turning to stone all on whom
they were fixed. The absurd traditions respecting them are un­
worthy of being mentioned; but it may be necessary merely to
remind the reader that Perseus, being provided with a mirror by
Minerva, winged shoes by Mercury, and a helmet which rendered
him invisible by Pluto, attacked these damsels—cut oft' the head
of Medusa, the only mortal of the three, and presented it to Mi­
nerva, who wore it on her aegis. Perseus was still more favored ;
for, after this conquest, he took his flight through the air toward
Ethiopia, but dropping some of the blood from Medusa’s head on
Libya, the drops changed into serpents, which accounts forthose
that infest the Libyan deserts. Diodorus explains this fable by
supposing that the Gorgons were a tribe of Amazons, which Per­
seus conquered in war. The Abbd Bannier supposed that the
three sisters were three ships, belonging to Phareys, their sup­
posed father, who traded with Perseus; and that these ships
were laden with elephants’ teeth, horns of fishes, and the eyes of
hyenas; a supposition as improbable, as far as concerns the cargo
of these ships, as the original tradition.—Ed.
f Suidas, verbo Perseus. In the Chah-namah of Ferdousi, Hou-
cheng, father of Djah-Muras, as Perseus is of Merrhus, collects
also in a miraculous manner the sacred fire.—Annales des Voyages.
Digitized by Google
166 ELECTRICAL PHENOMENA
Two of the magical oracles
* which Plethon has
preserved and commented on seem to bear some
connection with this subject. These oracles were
attributed to the first disciples of Zoroaster, or to
Zoroaster himself, which is not at all improbable,
since antiquity possessed two hundred verses, the
authorship of which was attributed to this prophet.!
They contain the following lines:
“ Oh, man! the production of Nature in her boldest mode,
If thou dost more than once invoke me, thou shalt behold alone
that which thou hast invoked:
For, neither the heaven, nor its arched concavity, shall be visible
to thee:
The stars shall not shine;—the light of the moon shall be veiled;
The earth shall tremble; and lightning alone shall be presented
to thy sight.” Vers. 39-43.
Plethon, after having observed that man is prop­
erly called the workmanship of an intrepid nature,
because he undertakes the most daring deeds,
adds, “ The oracle speaks in the character of the
god to the initiated. ‘ If more than once thou dost
invoke me, thou wilt see everywhere me that
thou hast invoked; for thou shalt see nothing but
lightning, that is, fire falling throughout the uni­
verse.’ ”
The commentary, which informs us that the last
oracle relates to the initiations, refers us, by one of
its expressions, to the second oracle, whence it is
, borrowed.
“ When thou seest the holy and sacred fire devoid of form,
Burning and flying about everywhere into the depths of the uni­
verse I
Listen to the voice of the Fire!” Vers. 46-48.
“ When thou shalt see,” says Plethon, “ the di­
vine fire that can not be represented under any
form” (it is well known that the laws of Zoroaster
* Oracula Magica, edente Joanne Opsopoeo, 1589.
t Plin. Hist. Nat., lib. xxx,, cap. i.
Digitized by Google
EMPLOYED BY MAGICIANS. 167
proscribed all images), “ give thanks, and full of
joy listen to the voice of the fire, which will give
to thee a very true and certain prenotion (knowl­
edge of the future).
Through the obscurity of the text and its ex­
planation, we seize upon an important feature in
the Zoroastrian initiations. If the initiated is fear­
less, he will invoke the god he worships, and will
soon see the god alone. Every other object dis­
appears ; he is surrounded by meteors and light­
nings, which neither can nor may be depicted by
any image; and from the midst of which a loud
voice is heard, that pronounces infallible oracles.
From the preceding, we may conclude, with some
probability, that Zoroaster had ideas upon elec­
tricity ; and possessed the means of attracting light­
ning, which he made use of to operate the first ap­
parent miracles destined to prove his prophetic
mission; and especially to light the sacred fire,
which he offered to the adoration of his disciples.
Such being the case, may we not inquire whether
we are correct in adding, that in his hands, and in
the hands of his disciples, the heavenly fire became
an instrument for proving the courage of the initi­
ated, for confirming their faith, and for dazzling
their vision by its immense splendor, impossible to
be gazed upon by mortal eyes; which is at once
the attribute and the image of the divinity.
A tradition (most probably known to the reader)
seems to attribute the death of Zoroaster to that
want of precaution to which many other victims
had fallen a prey. Another story presents in a
more noble aspect the prophet, or King of Bactria,
who, in order not to fall into the hands of a con­
queror, decided to die, and drew down lightning
upon himself; and by this last wonderful effort of
his art, he gave himself an extraordinary death,
Digitized by UooQle
168 ELECTRICAL PHENOMENA
worthy of the envoy of heaven, and the institutor
of the fire-worship.
*
* Zoroaster admitted no visible object of adoration except fire,
which he considered the only proper emblem of the deity. It is
said, that it is difficult to ascertain who the great institutor of fire-
worship was ; as there were several, at least six, lawgivers of the
name of Zoroaster; but this opinion has been satisfactorily re­
futed by Hyde
* and by Pasteret ;f and there is sufficient reason
for believing that there was only one Zoroaster or Zerdusht, the
founder of the religion of the Parsees. He was the son of hum­
ble, but nobly descended parents. He was born at Urmia, a town
of Azerbijan, about the year 589 b.c., in the reign of Lehrasp,
the father of Darius Hystaspes, or Gushtasp. It is unnecessary
to mention the prodigies that announced and appeared at the birth
of this extraordinary man. His early years, nevertheless, were
productive of nothing remarkable; but, at the age of twenty, he
secluded himself from the society of mankind, and in his retire­
ment conceived the idea of effecting a religious reformation, and
restoring the faith of his forefathers in greater purity, and more
adapted for the exigences of his country, than he found it. The
Parsee authors teach that, in this retirement, he was taken to
heaven, and there received the following instructions from Or-
muzd (the Principle of Good):—“Teach the nations that my
light is hidden under all that shines. Whenever you turn your
face toward the light, and you follow my commands, Ahriman
(the Evil Principle) will be seen to fly.” He then received from
Ormuzd the Zend-Avesta and the sacred fire.
Setting aside this fable, Zoroaster repaired, about the age of
thirty, to the court of Darius Hystaspes, who soon was converted
to his faith, and became a zealous and efficient propagator of it.
He introduced it into every part of his dominions; and had its
precepts written upon parchment, which were deposited in a vault,
hewn out of a rock in Persepolis, and placed under the guardian­
ship of holy men. He commanded that the profane should not
be permitted to approach the sacred volumes. Darius not only
aided Zoroaster in the propagation of his faith in Iran, but his at­
tempt to promulgate it in neighboring states involved him in a
war with Arjasp, King of Tureen. Instead of being killed by
lightning, as the tradition states, the prophet is said to have been
murdered during the persecution of the fire-worshipers by Arjasp.
His death took place in his seventy-sixth year, 513 b.c.
Of all the pagan faiths, that of Zoroaster, which acknowledges
the Supreme Being, and a good and evil principle, is undoubtedly
the most rational; and, if emblems of the deity are admissible,
the sun, or fire, is the most sublime of all visible emblems.
The ancient religion of Iran, which was the same as that of
Zoroaster, was established by Djamschid ; and was, in truth,
♦ Veterum Persarum, et Majorum Reliffionis Hist.
t Zoroastre, Confucius, et Mahomet compares.
Digitized by C>ooQle
EMPLOYES BY MAGICIANS. ' 169
Thus we trace this great secret from the earliest
period of history; and it perhaps existed even be­
fore it.
The Chaldeans, who aided Ninus in the war
against the Bactrians, with all the power of their
magic arts, must have possessed the same knowl­
edge relative to lightning as their rivals, although
the fact is not established by any historical docu­
ments. It might not be impossible for these priests
to have lost it, perhaps from want of the occasion
of using it; while it was preserved in the moun­
tainous countries of Asia and Etruria, that were
much more exposed than Babylon to the ravages
of lightning. The magical oracles that are attribu­
ted by Plethon to Zoroaster, or his disciples, are
commented on by Psellus, under the name of the
fire-worship, which renders the supposition of our author re­
specting the knowledge of electricity by Zoroaster at least prob­
lematical ; for, unless the traditional fable of his obtaining fire
from heaven be admitted, we have no data for the assumption that
he drew lightning from the clouds. It is more probable that the
original fire of the altars was lighted by reflected mirrors, or by
burning-glasses, as is now done in the houses of the Parsees in
India, when their fires are accidentally extinguished, or allowed to
go out: in which case, it may be said to be bestowed by the sun.
It is remarkable, that although the Parsees (fire-worshipers)
in India are an active, rich, and intelligent class, and follow their
religious faith without hinderance, yet, in Persia, they are a de­
graded and oppressed race. They have no temples, and no priest­
hood ; and, according to Sir Kerr Porter, their whole worship
“ has sunk into nothing more than a few hasty prayers, mutter­
ed to the sun, as supreme god: and what they call commemo­
rative ceremonies are now only sad confused shadows of their
former religious festivals.”*
The Parsees of India, in the emigration from the isle of Ormuz,
where they had fled from the Mohammedan persecutions, carried
with them the antus-byrum, or sacred fire, which is still preserved
at Oodwarra, near Nunsarree; and from it all the fires in their
temples have been lighted. It is intended as a sacred and per­
petual monitor to preserve their purity. The Parsees are a tall,
comely, athletic, and well formed race ; and much fairer than the
Hindoos, and wear a peculiar cap, which distinguishes them from
the Hindoos.—Ed. _____________ ___
* Sir R. K. Porter’s Travels in Persia, vol. ii., p. 40.
Digitized by UooQle
170 ELECTRICAL PHENOMENA
Chaldaic oracles
* regarding them as emanating
from the Chaldean priests; and the explanation he
gives respecting those we have quoted, is only as­
trological and allegorical. The sages of Babylon
and the prophet of Ariema had probably drawn
from the same source. It is possible that the secret
alluded to by the oracles having been preserved
for a long time by the successors of Zoroaster, tra­
ces might be found in the doctrine of the Magi,
from which Plethon borrowed the idea developed
in his Commentary.
* The Chaldeans, on the con­
trary, would have thrown themselves into allegory,
and drawn their followers with them, in desiring
to solve an enigma the secret of which was lost to
them, and which could alone furnish the solution.
* The compilation of Psellus differs from that of Plethon in
the order in which the oracles are disposed. There are also vari­
ous readings and considerable additions. Beside, the Greek
verses are much more correct, which seems to indicate a less
faithful translation, or one taken from an original not so ancient.
t Recherches Asiatiques, tome i,, pp, 575, 576. The Vedas are
the scriptures, or revelations of the Hindoos; and, like the
sacred parchments of Zoroaster, they must not be read by the
multitude, nor approached by the profane. They are supposed
to have proceeded from the mouth of Brahma, and to be in­
tended for the universal sacrifice. They are supposed, however,
to have been scattered ; but again brought together and arranged
by a sage, named Derapar&yana, or arranger, who flourished
more than five thousand years ago, or in the second age of the
world. He was assisted in his labor, and divided the whole of
the recovered fragments of the Vedas into four parts.
J, The Rigveda, which contains invocations addressed to deities
If we turn toward Hindostan, the cradle of civ­
ilization, we find the substance, and some of the
most striking expressions, of the two oracles in this
stanza ofthe Yadjour- Veda: “ There the sun shines
not, neither do the moon nor the stars; the me­
teors do not fly about” (that is, in this place):
“ God overwhelms these brilliant substances with
light, and the universe is dazzled by its splen­
dor.”! Zoroaster, who borrowed much from an­
Digitized by UooQle
EMPLOYED BY MAGICIANS. 171
cient India, doubtless, in this instance, might have
changed the sense of the words, and applied a met­
aphorical picture of the divine splendor to the magi-
of fire, of the sun, the moon, the firmament, the winds, and the
seasons, whose presence is invited to the sacrifices intended to
supplicate their aid. Some of the manhras, or hymns contained
in it, display specimens of the most exalted poetry. The sun,
savitri, is addressed as the light of the Divine Ruler; but in an
allegorical sense as the divine light which sheds its rays over all,
and emanates from the Supreme Being. One of the hymns,
translated by Mr. Colebroke, contains expressions closely resem­
bling those in the Book of Genesis, which describe the period
prior to the creation of this world. “ Then there was no entity
nor nonentity; no world, nor sky, nor aught above it; nothing,
anywhere, in the happiness of any one, involving or involved;
nor waters deep and dangerous. Death was not; nor then was
immortality ; nor distinction of day or night.”* In another por­
tion of the Veda, called Aitareya Brahaman’s, we find this sen­
tence:—“Originally this was indeed soul only, nothing else
whatever existed, active or inactive.” He thought, “ I will
create worlds.” These, and similar expressions, are supposed
to imply the Monotheism of the Ramadam Hindoo faith, accord­
ing to which, the creation of man arose from the circumstance
that every element begged from the Creator a distinct form, and
the whole chose a distinct body.
♦ Colebroke’s Essays, vol, i., p. 43.,
II. The Yajish, or, Yadjour-Veda, which relates chiefly to ob­
lations and sacrifices, one of the most splendid of which is “ to
light,” and another ‘‘to fire;'’ which induces the Editor to
attribute the Hindoo faith to the same origin as that of Zoro­
aster. All the hymns in this Veda relate to sacrifices and cere­
monies. It is scarcely necessary to say that many of these are
of a character inconsistent with the original faith, and seem to
belong to an after-period; especially the bloody sacrifices to
Kali; indeed, the following- is one of the texts of the Veda:
“ O ye gods, we slaughter no victim, we use no sacrificial stake,
we worship by the repetition of sacred verses.”—Samaveda San-
hita, p. 32, v. 2.)
III. The Samaveda concerns the names of ancestors, and re­
lates chiefly to a sacrifice termed Soma-Y&ga, or moon-plant
sacrifice ; to which the three highest classes of Bramins only are
admitted. The plant (sarcostema viminalis) must be pulled Up
by the roots in a moonlight night, from the top of a mountain;
and, at the same time, the arani wood (premna spinosa') must be
collected for kindling the sacred fire. From the juice of the
sarcostema an intoxicating liquor, called sama, is prepared for
the oblation, and also for the consumption of the officiating
Bramins, after the fastings, during the sacrifice, have been
finished. The fire with which the altar is lighted is produced
■ Google
172 ELECTRICAL PHENOMENA
cal ceremony of initiation. But Sir W. Jones is
inclined to think that this stanza is a modern para­
phrase of some text of the ancient sacred books.”*
This explains why these terms do not exactly
correspond with those of the magic oracles; and
may be applied in a less explicit manner to the se­
cret of attracting lightning from the clouds. The
paragraph might have been written at a period
when this process had been forgotten and lost
sight of; and, consequently, the proper sense of
the sacred text also forgotten.
Elsewhere the following passage of the Oupnek'-
hat, “ to know fire, the sun, the moon, and light­
ning, is three fourths of the science of G-od,”t
proves that the sacred science did not neglect to
study the nature of thunder; and by the possession
by the friction of one piece of the arani wood upon another ; and
may, consequently, be regarded as being procured from the air.
The following verses from one of the hymns demonstrate that
this sacrifice was originally a kind of purifying sacrament,
although it is now degenerated into a festival disgraced by ex­
cesses of all kinds: “ That saving moon-plant, by its stream
of pressed sacrificial viands, makes us pure. That saving moon­
plant makes us pure.”—(Stevenson’s translation of the iSdmaveda,
part i.; Prapathaka, vi.; Dasiata ii., V. 4, p. 94.)
IV. The Athar'vana contains incantations for the destruction
of enemies, and is not much reverenced by the Hindoos on that
account.
The real age of the Vedas is supposed to be much less than
that assigned by the Bramins; and it probably does not extend
beyond the year 200 b.c. It is singular that throughout these
scriptures there is a decided allusion to the fall of man, who,
although emanating from, and a part of the deity, had lost his
primeval purity, to recover which a great and universal sacrifice
was required. It is impossible not to perceive in these, and in
all the earliest traditions of all nations, that the primeval faith
of man was the belief in one God; and that Polytheism arose
out of the vices and backslidings of the human race; and it is
satisfactory to trace in the Cosmogony of so ancient a faith, and
in its account of the fall of man, anil the consequent necessity
of a propitiatory sacrifice, a confirmation, if any were required,
of the truths of our own sacred volume.—Ed.
* Recherches Asiatiques, tome i., p. 375.
f Oupnek’-hat. Brahmen XI.
Digitized by C>ooQle
EMPLOYED BY MAGICIANS. 173
of this knowledge the priests might indicate the
means of averting it. Finally, this opinion is also
strengthened by an historical fact. In the time of
Ctesias, India was acquainted with the use of con­
ductors of lightning. According to this historian,
*
iron placed at the bottom of a fountain of liquid
gold (that is to say, a sheet of gold), and made in
the form of a sword, with the point upward, pos­
sessed, as soon as it was fixed in the ground, the
property of averting storms, hail, and lightning.
Ctesias, who had seen the experiment tried twice,
before the eyes of the King of Persia, attributed
to the iron alone this quality which belonged to its
form and position. Perhaps they used, in prefer­
ence, iron naturally alloyed with a little gold, as
being less susceptible of rusting, for the same mo­
tive that leads the moderns to gild the points of
lightning conductors. Whatever might be the in­
tention, the principal fact remains ; and it is not
useless to remark that, from that time, the ancients
began to perceive the intimate connection between
the electric state of the atmosphere and the pro­
duction not only of lightning, but also of hail and
other meteors.
If the question so often resolved be renewed,
namely, why no vestiges of a knowledge so ancient
can be discovered since the time of Tullus Hostil-
ius, more than four-and-twenty centuries ago ? we
reply, that it was so little diffused, that it was only
by chance, and in an imperfect manner, that it was
discovered even by Tullus Hostilius, when perus­
ing tfye memoirs left by Numa. Would not the
dangers attached to the least error in repeating the
processes in these memoirs,—dangers so often
proved by fatal experience,—have been sufficient
to cause the worship of Jupiter Elicius, and
* Ctesias in Indic, ap. Photiwn. Bibl., cod. Ixxii.
Digitized by UooqIc
174 ELECTRICAL PHENOMENA
Jupiter Cataibates, to fall into disuse through
fear 1
The destruction of the Persian Empire by the
Greeks, anterior to the nearly general massacre of
the Magi, after the death of Smerdis, might cause
this important gap in the occult sciences known
to the disciples of Zoroaster. In India, which has
been so often the prey of the conqueror, analogous
causes might exercise an inflence as destructive.
In all countries, indeed, over what subject more
than this would the veil of religious mystery have
been thrown, and greater obstacles placed in the
way of ignorance, so as ultimately to plunge it into
oblivion 1
Other questions arise, more important and more
difficult. We may ask, whether electricity, what­
ever were the resources which it afforded, would
be sufficient to explain the brilliant apparent mira­
cle of the Zoroastrian initiation 1 Does it suffi­
ciently explain what Ovid describes so accurately
in the worship of Jupiter Elicius by Numa, name­
ly, the art of making the lightning, and the noise
of the thunder, seen and beard in a clear sky I
*
Does it explain tbe terrible power of hurling light­
ning upon an enemy, such as attributed to Porsen-
na,t and which two Etruscan magicians pretended
to possess in the time of Attila 1 Certainly not;—
at least it is not within the limits of our knowledge,
a limit which has, probably, not been surpassed by
the ancients. To supply any deficiency, may we
* Ovid, Fast., lib. iii., vers. 367-370,
t Porsenna was a king of Etruria, in whose tent, when the
Etrurian army lay before the gates of Rome, Mutius Scaevola put
his hand into the tire, and allowed it to be burned, without any ex­
pression of suffering, in order to convince Porsenna that it was
m vain to make head against a people who could display such
fortitude and daring. Porsenna was supposed to possess many
magical secrets.—En.
Digitized by Croogle
EMPLOYED BY MAGICIANS. 175
not suppose that, by a happy chance, the Thauma-
turgists, profiting by the explosion of a luminous
meteor, attributed it to the influence of their art,
and led enthusiasm to look upon it as a miracle,
although it was only a natural effect? May we
not, for example, recollect how, according to an
historian, when a miraculous rain quenched the
thirst of the soldiers of Marcus Aurelius, the em­
peror, at the same time, drew down, by the influ­
ence of his prayers, lightning on the warlike ma­
chines of his enemy.
* We may also transport the
apparent miracles of one country into another; and
discover at the present day, in a place consecrated
through all ages to religion, a secret equivalent to
the miracle of Numa. Naphtha, when dissolved
in atmospheric air, produces the same results as a
mixture of oxygen and hydrogen. Near Bakhout
* “Fulmen de cnelo, precibus suis, contra hostium machina-
mentum extorsit.”—Julius Capitolinas in Marc. Aurel.
t The town of Bakhou is the capital of a territory of the same
name, situated on the southern extremity of the peninsula of Abe-
sheron, on the west side of the Caspian Sea. The soil of the
whole territory is saturated with naphtha; and the peninsula
contains many volcanoes. Not far from Bakhou, a spring of white
oil gushes from the cleft of a rock at the base of a hill ; it is pure
naphtha, and readily burns in the surface of water. The inhab­
itants of these districts sink a hollow cane, or tube of paper, about
two inches into the ground, and by blowing upon a burning coal,
held near the orifice of the tube, the gas lights, but the flame
does not consume the paper, nor the cane. There are many wells
of the same substance; and these, as well as the burning places,
or Atesch-gah, as they are called, were generally shrines of grace ;
and many thousands of pilgrims and tire-worshipers resorted there
to purify themselves. Notwithstanding the degradation of the
Parsees when the Mohammedan religion was established in Per­
sia, a few, as stated in the text, still find their way to the Attach-
gah of Bakhou, and spend five, seven, or even ten years on the
spot, worshiping the sacred fire, and performing prayer and peni­
tential exercises. This sanctuary, which is surrounded by four
low walls, is a space about twenty feet square, and contains
twenty cells, in which the priests and Ghnebres reside; and from
each corner of the quadrangle arises a chimney, about twenty feet
high, out of which a bright flame, three or four feet in height, con-
Digitized by VjOOQle
176 NAPHTHA AN AID TO MAGIC.
is a well, the water of which is saturated with
naphtha; if a mantle be extended, and held above
the water for some minutes, and then some lighted
straw thrown into it, there is suddenly heard, says
the traveler whose words I quote, “ a thundering
noise, like that of a line of artillery, accompanied
by a brilliant flame.”* Restore to the Atesch-gah
its ancient majesty, and for its little number of
penitents and pilgrims, who still awaken religious
associations, substitute a college of priests, clever
in turning to the glory of their divinity phenomena,
the causes of which are carefully concealed from
the eyes of the profane, and, under the clearest
skies, at their command fire and peals of thunder
would issue from the wells of Bakhou. Let us
admit that substances which tire abundant in cer­
tain countries might have been transported by the
Thaumaturgists into those countries where the ac­
tion of them, being quite unknown, would appear
miraculous. The Tiber might have seen, in the
age when Numa invoked Jupiter Elicius, the same
wonder which at the present day is famous on the
banks of the Caspian.f The ceremonies, indeed,
of the same magic worship, might be enhanced by
the effects ofa composition of naphtha, and by those
of the lightning-conductors and electricity elicited
by the artifice of the Thaumaturgist, always care-
tinually issues. The penances to which these deluded creatures
subject themselves are so severe, that scarcely one individual
out of ten who visit the shrine ultimately survives them.—Ed.
* Journey of George Keppelfrom India to England by Bassora.—
Nouvelles Annales des Voyages, 2e series, tome v., p. 349.
t Native naphtha is, in the present day, exported to almost
every part of Europe, from the neighborhood of the Caspian. It
is a limpid, nearly colorless, volatile liquid, with a strong, pecu­
liar odor. It is much lighter than water, having a specific gravity
of 0.753; consequently it swims on that fluid, for it does not mix
with it. Naphtha is very inflammable, and bums with a white
flame, which evolves much smoke. It is a compound of carbon
and hydrogen.—Ed.
Digitized by UooqIc
PHOSPHORESCENT SUBSTANCES. 177
fill to make the treasures of his science impene­
trable, and thence more respected.
But, in spite of the principle we have hitherto
followed, it is with regret we admit that it affords
only a partial or local explanation, applicable to
some isolated facts. We prefer general facts, such
as were for so long a period concealed within the
bosom of the temple. In recalling to remembrance
the brilliant or destructive influence of the different
inflammable compositions, the existence of which
is indicated by these facts, we shall measure the
extent of the resources in the power of the pos­
sessors of the sacred science, calculated to enable
them to rival the fires of heaven by the apparent
miracles of terrestrial fire.
CHAPTER IX.
Phosphorescent Substances.—Sudden Appearance of Flames.—
Heat developed by the Slackening of Lime.—Substances which
are kindled by Contact with Air and Water.—Pyrophorus,
Phosphorus, Naphtha, and Alcoholic Liquids employed in differ­
ent apparent Miracles.—The Blood of Nessus was a Phosphu-
ret of Sulphur; and also the Poison that Medea employed
against Creusa.—Greek Fire. — This Fire rediscovered after
many Attempts.—In Persia and Hindostan an unextinguishable
Fire was used.
Nothing is more striking to the vulgar than the
sudden production of light, heat, and flame without
any apparent cause, or with a concurrence of causes
seemingly opposed to such an effect.
Art teaches the preparation of substances which
emit light, without allowing any sensible heat to
escape. The phosphorus of Bologna,
* and the
* The Bologna phosphorus is a natural gypseous spar, or sel­
enite which has the property of emitting light, when it is calcined
for that purpose. It is powdered after calcination, and then formed
into small cakes by means of a solution of gum-tragacanth; these
cakes are dried, brought to a state of ignition, and then suffered
II. M
Digitized by Lroogle
178 PHOSPHORESCENT SUBSTANCES.
phosphorus of Baldwin,
* are known to the learned,
but they now only figure in books, among the
amusements of physics. The ancients were ac­
quainted with bodies endowed with a similar prop­
erty. Isidore! mentions a brown stone, which be­
came luminous when sprinkled with oil.
The Rabbins, given up to the study of the Cab­
bala,| speak of a light belonging to saint#, to the
elect, upon whose countenance it shines miracu­
lously from their birth, or when they have merited
this sign of glory.§ Arnobus,|| on the authority of
Hermippus, gives to the magician Zoroastei^f a
belt of fire ; a suitable ornament for the institutor
of the worship of fire. A philosopher of the pres­
ent age would be very little embarrassed how to
produce these brilliant wonders, particularly if their
duration was not required to be much prolonged.
to cool. If kept from air and moisture, they shine like a burning
coal when carried into a dark place, after being exposed for a few
minutes to the light. In 1602, Vincentius Casciorolus, a shoe­
maker of Bologna, who had discovered the properties of this spar,
showed it to Scipio Bezatello, an alchemist, and several learned
men, under the martial name of lapis Solaris, and as the substance
called the sol of the alchemist, or philosopher’s stone, fitted for
converting the ignoble metals into gold
* —Ed.
* Baldwin’s phosphorus is nitrate of lime, which, after the water
of crystalization has been evaporated, and the salt has become
dry, acquires the property of emitting light in the dark.—Ed.
t Savinius lapis, oleo addito, etiam lucere fertur, 1sid., Hispal. Ori­
gin., lib. xvi., cap. iv.
t The Cabbala is the work which contains the esoteric phi
losophy of the Jewish doctors, and which derives its name from
the Hebrew word kibbel, to receive; as the laws it contains were
received by Moses from above.—Ed.
§ Gaulmin, De vita et morte Mosis, not. lib. ii., pp. 233-325.
|| Arnobus lived in the reign of Diocletian, and was converted
to Christianity. In proof of his sincerity, he wrote a treatise in
which he exposed the absurdity of irreligion, and ridiculed the
heathen gods.—Ed.
Nunc veniat quis, super igneam zonam, magus interiors ab orbe
Zoroaster.—A mob., lib. i. It is without any reason that some
commentators wish to read it thus : Quin Azonaces magus, <£c.
♦ Beckman’s Hist, of Inventions, trans., vol. ix., p. 423.
Digitized by GiOOQle
DRUIDICAL FIRE. 179
The Druids extended the resources of science
much farther. The renowned person, who, in the
poem of Lucan, proclaims their magical power,
boasts of possessing the secret of making a forest
appear on fire, when it does not burn.
* Ossian
paints old men, mixed with the sons of Loda, and
at night making conjurations round a cromlech, or
circle of stones; and, at their command, burning
meteors arose, which terrified the warriors of Fin­
gal ; and by the light of which Ossian distinguished
the chief of the enemy’s warriors.'! An English
translation of Ossian observes that every bright
flame, sudden, and resembling lightning, is called
in Gaelic the Druid's flame.\ It is to this flame
that Ossian compares the sword of his son Oscar.§
Connected with the recital of the bard, this expres­
sion indicates that the Druids possessed the art of
causing flames to appear, for the purpose of dis­
maying their enemies.||
* “ Et non ardentis fulgere incendia sylvm.”—Lucan, Phars.,
lib. iii., v. 420.
+ Ossian's Poems, published by John Smith, 1780.
t /Aid. § G. Higgins, TAe Celtic Druids, p. 116.
|| From one strophe of the Hervorar Saga, it may be inferred
that this art was not unknown to the Scandinavian magicians.
(See Magasin Encyclop., 1804, vol. iv.. pp. 250-260.
11 Servius in -Entid, lib. vii., vers. G78-681.
We mayjoin to the traits ofresemblance already
observed between the Celts and the ancient inhab­
itants of Italy, the fable of Caeculus, the founder
of the city of Preneste. Wishing to make himself
known as the son of the god Vulcan, he implored
the aid of his sire, when suddenly an assembled
multitude, who had refused to acknowledge his
brilliant origin, were enveloped in flames, and the
alarm quickly subdued their incredulity.fl
We may remark, that Caeculus, most probably,
had chosen the place of assembly, and that the
Digitized by Google
180 FLAME EVOLVED BY MOISTURE.
Druids only exercised their power in sacred in­
closures, interdicted to the profane, as in certain
optical illusions where fire has often played a part;
for these apparent miracles required a theater suit­
able to those who worked them ; and, in other
places, in spite of the urgency of necessity, they
would have experienced great difficulty in any
attempt to produce them.
The instantaneous development of latent heat is
not less likely to excite astonishment, particularly
if water kindles the flames. Substances suscepti­
ble of evolving heat, or of taking fire, in absorbing
or in decomposing water, are numerous, and they
have very often occasioned fires; such as were
attributed, formerly, to negligence or to malice.
Stacks of damp hay, and slates of pyrites,
* moist­
ened by a warm shower, will produce this phe­
nomenon.!
* Brewster’s Natural Magic, p. 215.
* Pyrites consists of a natural combination of iron and sulphur.
It is frequently found in seams of coal; and when it is exposed to
moisture, the sulphur and the iron aid one another in decomposing
the water, and attracting its oxygen, which changes the sulphur
into sulphuric acid, and the iron into an oxide ; and thus forming,
by the union of these two, the sulphate of iron. During these
natural processes the degree of heat developed is often sufficient
to inflame the hydrogen, the other constituent of the water, as it
escapes into the air.—Ed.
t In ricks of hay thus consumed, the combustion is the result
of fermentation, a factwhich was known to the ancients: for Ga­
len informs us that the fermenting dung of pigeons is sufficient to
set fire to a house, a phenomenon which he has witnessed: and
it is recorded, on good authority, that the fire which consumed the
great church of Pisa was occasioned by the fermentation of the
dung of the pigeons that had for centuries built their nests under
its roof. Many other substances, also, cause spontaneous com­
bustion. When recent charcoal is reduced to an impalpable pow­
der, by rollers, it gradually absorbs air, which is consolidated, and
heat is developed during the process eoual to 360° of Fahrenheit,
which soon causes the combustion of tne charcoal. The inflam­
mation is more active in proportion to the shortness of the inter­
val between the production of the charcoal and its reduction into
powder: and the free admission of air is indispensable.
* —Ed.
Digitized by C>ooQle
SUBSTANCES EXTRICATING HEAT. 181
Were the Thaumaturgists acquainted with phe­
nomena similar to the latter 1 I reply, without
doubt, they were. The prodigious heat which is
emitted by quicklime sprinkled with water could
not have escaped their observation. Now, let us
suppose that a sufficient quantity of quicklime is
hidden at the bottom of a pit, or kiln, and that the
pit is then filled with snow: the absorbed snow
will disappear ; and the interior temperature of
the pit or kiln will be so much more raised, owing
to its being thus closely shut, that less of the ex­
panded heat will be allowed to escape—and an
apparent miracle will be proclaimed. Thus, a
writer of legends has ornamented the history of St.
Patrick, by relating that the apostle of Ireland
lighted a kiln with snow.
Theophrastus
* gives the name of spinon to a
stone which is met with in certain mines ; and
which, if pounded, and then exposed to the sun,
ignites of itself, particularly if care has been taken
to wet it first; The spinon, there can be little
doubt, is merely an efflorescing pyrites. The stone
named gagates] (true pyritic jet) is black, porous,
light, friable, and resembles burned wood. It ex­
hales a disagreeable odor; and, when it is heated,
it attracts other bodies in the same manner as am­
ber. The smoke which it exhales in burning re­
lieves women attacked with hysterics; and it is
kindled by means of water, and extinguished when
immersed in oil. This latter peculiarity was also
the distinguishing feature of a stone which, accord­
ing to ./Elian and Dioscorides,j: ignited in a like
manner, when sprinkled with water, and, in burn-
* Theophrast., De Lavidibus.
+ Plin., Hist. Nat., lib. xxxvi., cap. xix.—Solin., cap. xxv.—
laid., Hispal. Origin., lib. xvi., cap. iv. So named from being ob­
tained near the river Gagas, in Lycia.—Ed.
t JElian, De Nat. Animal., lib. ix., cap. xxviii.
Digitized by C>ooQle
182 PERSIAN PHOSPHORUS STONE.
ing, exhaled a strong bituminous smell; but, as it
was extinguished by blowing above it, its com­
bustion seems to have depended on the escape of
a gaseous vapor.
*
* Edinb. Journal of Science, new series, vol. i., p. 71.
t Humboldt’s Personal Narrative, vol. iv., p. 354.
Those three substances, whether they were the
productions of art or of nature, might have sufficed
to work miraculous conflagrations. But Pliny and
Isidore of Seville have described a fourth, still
more powerful: a black stone that is found in
Persia, and which, if broken between the fingers,
bums them.! This is precisely the effect pro­
duced by a bit of pyrophorus, or phosphorus stone;
and this wonderful stone was probably nothing
else. It is known that phosphorus, melted by
heat, may become black and solid and the word
stone ought not to impose more upon us here than
* Many instances of spontaneous combustion can be traced to
the escape of carbureted and sulphureted hydrogen gases through
rents in the earth. Near the village of Bradley, in Staffordshire,
an unextinguishable fire has burned for seventy years, arising
from a burning stratum of coal, to which the air has free access
from beneath it. At Bedley, also, near Glasgow, a constant
stream of inflammable gas issues in the bed of a river, which is
occasionally set on fire, and, in calm weather, continues burning
at the surface of the water for weeks together. It consists of a
mixture of two volumes of hydrogen gas and one volume of car­
bon, so that it is little more than half the weight of atmospheric
air.
* The light which has been termed the “ Lantern of Mara-
caybo,” in South America, and which is seen every night hover­
ing over a mountainous, desert spot, on the banks of the river
CatatumbaJ near its junction with the Sulia, is another example
of the escape of inflammable gas issuing from the ground, in­
flamed, most probably, at first by electricity. In some places
these gases are applied to domestic use, as at the salt mine of
Gottizabe, near Rheims, in Fecklensburg.—Ed.
t “ Pyrites ; nigra quidam, sed attrita digitos adruit.”—Plin.
Hist. Nat., lib. xxxvii., cap. 11.—“ Pyrites; Persicus lapis ....
tenentis manum, si vehementius prematur, adurit.”—Isidor., His-
pal. Origin., lib. xvi., cap. iv.
t It is not probable that it was phosphorus; but it might have
been a natural pyrophorus, which took fire on the exposure of a
fresh surface to the air.—Ed.
Digitized by UooQle
PHOSPHORUS KNOWN TO THE ANCIENTS. 183
the words lake and fountain when a liquid is spoken
of. Custom has consecrated in our own language
the words infernal stone (lapis infemalls) and cau­
terizing stone
* for a pharmaceutical preparation.
But were the ancients acquainted with phos­
phorus and pyrophorus ? I reply in the affirma­
tive, since they relate wonders which could have
been produced by no other means than the employ­
ment of these substances, or by reactives, endowed
with analogous properties. We shall have occa­
sion to mention an ancient description of the effects
of a combination of phosphorus, a description as
exact as if it had been made at the present time
by a modern chemist. As to pyrophorus, science
possesses so many substances which ignite after
some minutes’ exposure to the air, that it may,
without improbability, be believed that many of
them were known to the ancients. Without men­
tioning bitumens as being highly inflammable, or
petroleum, or naphtha, which take fire at the ap­
proach of a lighted candle, how many of the resi­
due of distillations kindle spontaneously in a damp
atmosphere. This property, to which no attention
is paid, except to explain it by a general principle,
was certainly never neglected by the performers
of apparent miracles, since the art of distillation
formed an important part of the sacred sciences.
We will not then hesitate to believe, though it
may well astonish us, what history relates of a vestal
threatened with the punishment reserved for those
who allowed the sacred fire to go out, that she had
only to spread her veil over the altar in order that
the flame should suddenly rekindle, and burn more
vividly than before.) From beneath the friendly
veil, we may imagine that we perceive a grain of
♦ It is a preparation of pure potassa.—Ed.
fValer. Maxim., lib. i., cap. iv„ $ 8.
Digitized by UooQle
184 PHOSPHORUS KNOWN TO THE ANCIENTS.
phosphorus or of pyrophorus to fall on the hot
cinders, and supply the place of the intervention
of the divinity.
Nor need we longer share the incredulity of
Horace, respecting the apparent miracle which was
worked in the sanctuary of Gnatia,
* where the in­
cense kindled of itself in honor of the gods.t We
also may understand how Seleucus, sacrificing to
Jupiter, saw the wood-pile upon the altar ignite
spontaneously to offer a brilliant presage of his
future greatness neither can we deny that the
Theurgist Maximus,§ offering incense to Hecate,
might have been able to announce that the torches
which the goddess held would light themselves
spontaneously, and that his prediction had been
accomplished.il
Notwithstanding the precautions which the love
of mystery inspired, and which was seconded by
the enthusiasm of admiration, the working of the
science was sometimes openly shown in its assumed
miracles. •» Pausanias relates what he saw in two
cities of Lydia, the inhabitants of which, subject­
ed to the yoke of the Persians, had embraced the
religion of the Magi. “ In a chapel,” he says, “ is
an altar, upon which there are always ashes, that in
color do not resemble any others. The Magi placed
♦ A town of Apulia, about eighty miles from Brundusium.—Ed.
t Horat., Senn., lib. i., sat. v., vers. 97-190; Plin., Hist. Nat.,
lib. ii., cap. vii.
t Pausanias, Attic., cap. xvi.
§ This Maximus was a cynic, and a magician of Ephesus. He
instructed the Emperor Julian in magic; but refused to reside in
his court. Ho was appointed pontiff in the province of Lydia.
When his patron Julian went into the East, Maximus promised
him success, and that his conquests should be more numerous
than those of Philip. After the death of Julian, he was almost
sacrificed to the fury of the soldiers, but escaped to Constantino­
ple, where he was, soon afterward, accused of magical practices
before the Emperor Valens; and being condemned, he was be­
headed at Ephesus, 4.u. 3G6. || Eunapius in Maxim.
Digitized by C>ooQle
PHOSPHORUS KNOWN TO THE ANCIENTS. 185
some wood upon the altar, and invoked I know
not what god, by orisons taken from a book writ­
ten in a barbarous language unknown to the
Greeks: the wood soon ignited of itself without
fire, and the flame of it was very brilliant.”*
The extraordinary color of the cinders, which
were always kept upon the altar, doubtlessly con­
cealed an inflammable composition; simply, per­
haps, earth soaked in petroleum or naphtha—a spe­
cies of fuel still employed in Persia, in every place
where these bituminous substances are common.
The Magi, in placing the wood, probably threw
there, without its being perceived, a few grains of
pyrophorus, or of that stone which was found in
Persia, and which was kindled by a light pressure.
While the orison lasted, the action of either sub­
stance had time to develop itself.
The vine-branches which a priest placed upon
an altar, near Agrigentum, lighted spontaneously
in the same manner. Solinusf adds, that the flame
ascended from the altar toward the assistants with­
out incommoding them. This circumstance an­
nounces that between the vine-branches a gas
escaped, and was lighted from below the altar, in
a manner similar to that at Mount Eryx, where a
perpetual flame is preserved on the altar of Venus.f
The fumes of a spirituous liquor would have pro­
duced the same phenomenon. By the inflammation
of an ethereal fluid, also, may be explained the
power that Fromann attributes to the Zingari§ of
* Pausanias, Eliac., lib. i., cap. xxvii.
t Solin., cap. xi.
t Refer to chap, iv., vol. i.
§ Zingari is the Italian appellation of that extraordinary race of
mankind known as wanderers in almost every part of the world,
but whose original home, or aboriginal region, is still a problem.
In every country, although the same people, yet they have a dis­
tinct name. In England we term them Gipsys, from their sup­
posed Epyptian origin; in France they are called Bohemians ; tn
Digitized by Croogle
186 COMBUSTIBLES INFLAMED
making fire appear upon a single bundle of straw
placed among many others, and of extinguishing
it at pleasure.
* In this manner school-boys amuse
themselves by making alcohol burn in their hands :
a puff of breath disperses the flame at the moment
when they begin to feel the heat of it.
“ It has been observed,” says Buffon,! “ that
some substances thrown up by ./Etna, after having
been cooled during several years and then moist­
ened with rain, have rekindled, and thrown off
flames, with an explosion violent enough to pro­
duce even a slight earthquake.” The composition
of these volcanic productions may have been imi­
tated by art, or the Thaumaturgist may have care­
fully collected and preserved those which nature
had formed. One of the four stones inflammable
by water, of which we have spoken, shall be ex­
plained elsewhere.
In fact we may remark, with a man whom sci­
ence and his country have equally regretted,J that
quicklime mixed with sulphur, by the heat which
Holland, Heydens ; in Germany, Zigeuners ; in Spain, Gitanos;
in Russia, Tzengani; and in Italy, Zingari; while the Oriental
nations call them Tschingenes. From the time they first appear­
ed in Europe, they pretended to possess magical science, and co
have the power of looking into the future. The art of chiroman­
cy, or telling fortunes by the inspection of the hand, however, is
not of their invention, lectures having been read in colleges upon
that absurd art long before the Gipsys appeared in Europe.
With respect to their origin, the most probable opinion brings
them originally from Hindostan. Their language has a close re­
semblance to the Hindostanee ; and it is supposed that they mi­
grated from India in the beginning of the fifteenth century, when
Timur-Beg invaded that country, and endeavored to establish in
it the Mohammedan faith. Whatever may have been their origin,
they are now little better than lawless wanderers, thieves, impos­
tors, and the only pretenders to sorcery in Europe at the present
time.—Ed.
* Fromann, Trad, de Fascinations, pp. 263, 527, 528.
f Thiorie de la Terre, Preuves, xvi.
j Cadet-Gassicourt, De VExtinction de la Chaux, <3pc. Thesis
aanetjoned before the Facnlfe des Sciences, August, J812,
Digitized by tjOOQle
BY MOISTURE AND HEAT. 187
it emits when sprinkled with water, first fuses, and
then causes the combustion of the sulphur ; that
this mixture rapidly sets on fire mixed with sul­
phur and chlorate of potassa, and as suddenly ig­
nites gunpowder and phosphorus ; and that, in the
latter case, there exists a physical means of fixing
the precise moment when the developed heat will
cause the combustion.
Let us transport ourselves among a people whose
first historical centuries, owing to the marvelous
recitals with which they are filled, are thrown back
into the indefinite ages of mythology.
The impartial reader will follow us in the march
of these recitals. Let him weigh well all the ex­
pressions which Dejanira
* employs for describing
the first effects of the Blood of Nessus, a marvelous
philter, with which she impregnated the precious
tunic that was to bring back the heart of her in­
constant husband.f “Nessus,” says she, “ advised
me to keep this liquid in a dark place until the
moment when I wished to make use of it. This
is what I have done. To-day, in the dark, with a
flock of wool dipped in the liquid, I have dyed the
* Dejanira was the daughter of Olmus, King of jEtolia. She
■was married to Hercules, and traveling with him, on one occa­
sion, being stopped by the swollen waters of the Evenus, she
was conveyed across the river by the centaur Nessus, who no
sooner, however, landed her on the opposite shore, than he
offered violence to her person in the sight of her husband. Her­
cules, to revenge the insult, killed the centaur with a poisoned
arrow. Nessus, in dying, bequeathed his tunic, stained with his
poisoned blood, to Dejanira, observing that it had the power
of reclaiming husbands from infidelity. The lady gladly ac­
cepted and preserved the tunic; and when Hercules proved
faithless to her bed, she sent it to him; and he, having put it on,
was burned to death. The romance of the legend is scarcely
destroyed by the explanation given by our author.—Ed.
t Sophocl., Trachin., act iv., sc. 1. To be more concise, I have
blended together two passages very much like each other.
Seneca {Hercules (Etacus, act iii., sc. 1) describes the same
details, and particularly the efflorescence produced whenever
the philter touched the earth,
Digitized by UooQle
188 COMBUSTIBLES INFLAMED
tunic which I have sent, after having shut it in a
box, without its having been exposed to the light.
The flock of wool, exposed to the sun upon a
stone, was spontaneously consumed, without hav­
ing been touched by any one. It was reduced to
ashes, into powder resembling that which the saw
causes to fall from wood. I have observed that
above the stone on which I had placed it froth
bubbles appeared, like those which, in autumn, are
produced from wine poured from a height.”
Let a chemist read these details, stripped of all
mythological recollections; what will he recognize
in this pretended philter, given by the hand of
vengeance, and which, from its consistence, color,
or some other property, received the appellation
of blood i I reply, a liquid preparation of phos­
phorus,
* which, owing to the proportions of its
elements, inflamed spontaneously when it was ex­
posed to the light and heat of the sun. The phos­
phoric acid produced from its combustion would
produce upon the stone the effervescence which
struck the eyes of Dejanira, and also the ashes
of the wool reduced to a dry and insoluble phos­
phate.
* A portion of phosphorus, combined with one portion of sul­
phur, composes a phosphoret which remains liquid at the tem­
perature of 10°. and is ignited at that of 25° of the centrigrade
thermometer, 50° and 77° of Fahrenheit.
t Sophocl., Trachin., act iv., sc. 2.
Hercules clothed himself with the fatal tunic;
then he sacrificed twelve bulls; but scarcely had
he taken the fire to the wood-pile on which the
victims were deposited, than he felt the effects of
the philter.t The vicinity of the flame, the chem­
ist will say, and the humid heat of the skin of a
man who works with strength and activity before
a kindled pile will infallibly determine, though
Digitized by tjOOQle
BY MOISTURE AND LIGHT. 189
without visible inflammation, the decomposition
of the phosphoret spread upon the garment. The
compound being dried up, and therefore much
more caustic, would act upon all parts of the
body, disorganize the skin and the flesh, and, by
inexpressible pains, cause the death of its unfortu­
nate victim. Even at this day, when its nature is
not unknown, it would be difficult to arrest the
action once begun of these consuming substances:
formerly it would have been impossible.
In discovering so perfect a uniformity between
the picture painted by Sophocles and the illustra­
tions of science, can it fairly be supposed that by
chance alone the dreams or the imaginings of a
poet should coincide exactly with the operations
of nature 1 It is more reasonable to admit that the
details of these marvelous facts were preserved in
the memory of men, than that the poet would di­
gress from the received tradition, of which he
knew not the origin. There can be little doubt
that this origin belonged to occult science, to
magic studied in Thessaly, in the country of Nes-
sus, from the time of the siege of Troy.
*
Convinced that the Greek tragedian has de­
scribed the effects of a secret preparation which,
perhaps, in his time still existed in the temples, I
have given to the blood of Nessus the property of
inflaming spontaneously in the light, although this
may not have been an essential condition of the
phenomenon that it produced. Every potential
cautery, spread in sufficient quantity upon the sur­
face of the body, will exercise the same power;
will cause the same pains, and soon occasion the
same impossibility of taking off the garment which
is daubed with it, without tearing the skin and the
flesh, and without redoubling instead of diminish-
* Plin., Hut. Nat., lib. xxx., cap. i.
Digitized by kjOOQle
190 THE OIL OF MEDEA.
ing the sufferings of the victim irrevocably doomed
to death.
*
The poison poured by Medea upon the robe
which she sent to her rival, resembles, by its effects,
that which Dejanira, without knowing its malig­
nity, employed. But this myth presents, further,
an impossible circumstance. From the fillet of
gold offered with the dress to the unhappy Creusa,
there shot unextinguishable flames.t As it can not
be supposed that here there was an elevation of
temperature, or the power of a burning sun, the
spontaneous inflammation discloses the employ­
ment of naphtha, which takes fire at the approach
alone of a lighted body. Many authors relate that
Medea really rubbed the robe and the crown
destined for Creusa with naphtha.^ Procopius
strengthens this tradition by twice observing that
the liquor called naphtha by the Medes, received
from the Greeks the name of the oil of Medea.%
Pliny, in fact, says that Medea having rubbed the
crown of her rival, whom she wished to destroy,
with naphtha, it caught fire at the instant when the
unfortunate individual approached the altar to offer
a 8acrifice.||
In the tragedy of Seneca, Medea, after having
announced that the “ golden frontlet sent to Creu­
sa inclosed a hidden fire, the composition of which
* Toward the end of the last century, a pharcomopolist of
Paris, M. Steinacher, was called into a house under the pretext
of giving relief to a sick person. Some people who pretended to
condole with him, made a barbarous game of covering him with
blisters, and holding him in this state during several hours.
When he recovered his liberty, the most active and best directed
means to relieve him were useless; he languished for some time,
and died in the most horrible torments; the authors of this crime
remained unknown and unpunished.
t Euripid., Medea, act vi., sc. i.
t Plutarch, Vit. Alexandr.
$ Procop., Histoire inel'ee, chap. xi.
II Plin., Hist. Nat., lib. ii., cap. 105.
Digitized by Google
THE GREEK FIRE. 191
she had learned from Prometheus, adds that Vul­
can had also given her fire, concealed under thd
form of a light sulphur, and that she borrowed
from Phaeton the flashes of an unextinguishable
flame.”* In withdrawing the veil from these fig­
urative expressions, it is difficult not to perceive
there a genuine Greek fire, which a grain of
pyrophorus, or a little naphtha would kindle,
when the fatal mixture was dispersed through
the air, or by the vicinity of flame, such as that
burned upon the altar which the wife of Jason
approached.
We do not inadvertently add the Greek fire to
the number of the weapons of Medea. According
to every probability, we may ask, what was the
foundation of the Greek fire ? I answer, naphtha
—the oil of Medea; and those bulls which vomited
flame in order to defend the golden fleece that
Medea’s lover had delivered up to Jason—those
bulls, the feet and the mouth of which were of
brass, and which Vulcan had fabricatedt—were
they not machines adapted for throwing out the
Greek fire ?
Faithful to the method which we have followed,
we shall endeavor to trace the history of this weap­
on, formerly so dreaded, from the earliest times
when it was employed, till the latest records of it;
when nothing announced that the discovery of it
was still recent.
Two troubadours, one of whom flourished in the
first years of the thirteenth century, mention the
Greek fire. One of them says that it was extin-
♦ “ Ignis fulvo.. clausus in auro.. latet obscurus.. que] mihi
coeli. . qui furta luit. . viscere foeto.. dedit et docuit.. condere
vires.. arte Prometheus.. dedit et tenui.. sulfure tectos.. Mul-
ciber ignes. . Et vivaces.. fulguraflammae.. De cognato.. Phae-
tonte tuli. —Senec., Jfedea, act iv., sc. 2.
t Apollon., Rhod. Argonaut., lib. iii.
Digitized by UooQle
192 THE GREEK FIRE.
guished by means of vinegar.
* Joinville enters
into a curious detail upon the use of this fire, which
the Saracens darted forth upon the Crusaders.t
The Arabs have, at all times, made a great use of
inflamed darts for the attack and the defense of
places ; so that the Sheik of Barnou, who derived
his knowledge from this people, was much aston­
ished to learn that the English had never employ­
ed this method of destruction in war.f
Manuel Comnenus§ employed the Greek fire
upon the galleys which he had armed to oppose
Roger of Sicily; and the historian observes that
he restored the use of it, after it had been given
up for a long Alexius Comnenus had em­
ployed it, however, against the Pisans. Upon the
prow of his vessels were lions of bronze, which
vomited flame in every direction where it was in­
tended to fall.fi Anna Comnenus
** speaks of fire
that the soldiers, armed with tubes resembling our
fusees, shot forth upon the enemy. But, accord-
* Millot, Histoire litteraire des Troubadours, tome i., p. 380;
tome ii., pp. 393, 394.
t Memoires de Joinville, fol. edit., 1761, p. 44.
J Voyages of Denham, Oudney, and Clapperton, vol. i., pp. 115,
238.
$ Manuel Comnenus, although the second son of John Com­
nenus, yet ascended the throne after the death of his father, in
1143. His reign, of thirty years, was filled with the vicissitudes
of military enterprises against the Christians, the Saracens, and
the scarcely civilized nations beyond the Danube. He believed
in astrology, and the professors of that mystical art had promised
him many years of glory, even when his death was approaching;
but not feeling any confidence in their predictions, he requested
to have the habit of a monk brought to him, and, substituting it
for the royal robe, he expired.—Ed.
|| “ Ignis Gra?cus qui longo jam tempore abditus latuerat.”
IT Ann. Comnen., Hist., lib. xi., cap. ix. Alexius Comnenus
commenced his reign in 1081. His daughter Anna endeavored
to immortalize his memory in the Alexiad, or the history of his
reign. If her narrative can be depended upon, it would almost
induce the belief that the use of gunpowder was then understood
and employed instead of the Greek fire; or that gunpowder was
that fire.—Ed. ** Ibid., lib. xiii., cap. ix
Digitized by C>ooQle
THE GREEK FIRE. 193
ing to her, they prepared their fire with a mixture
of sulphur and resin reduced into powder. This
account, however, is not worthy of credit; for
such a composition would have melted before igni­
ting, and would not have shot forth with an explo­
sion.
Here three observations present themselves : 1st.
The lions in bronze, employed by Alexius Com-
nenus, recall to our remembrance the fire-vomit­
ing bulls manufactured in bronze by Vulcan—they
are evidently the same description of weapon.
2d. Sixty years had scarcely elapsed between the
maritime expedition of Alexius and that of Manuel
Comnenus; in so short a space of time had the
Greek fire been almost entirely forgotten ! How
many other processes of occult science may have
perished by a more prolonged disuse. 3d. The
delusive process which Anna Comnenus gives for
the composition of the Greek fire is another proof
of the care with which the ancients then concealed
these processes beneath a double veil of mystery
and of falsehood.
Constantine Porphyrogenitus,
* indeed, recom­
mends his son never to disclose to the barbarians
the secret of the composition of the Greek fire;
but to say to them that it was brought from heaven
by an angel, and that it would be sacrilegious to
* He was the son of Leo, and, although clothed with the im­
perial purple, yet he was of a retired habit, and dedicated much
of his time to the cultivation of literature and science. He drew
many learned men to his court, and himself became an author.
He delineated what he regarded as a perfect image of royalty, in
the life of his grandfather, Basil; he also wrote a treatise, intend­
ed to instruct his son in the practice of government; and another
entitled TAeuraU, in which a detailed account of the empire is
given. Such a monarch was likely to inquire into the nature of
the Greek fire; and, knowing it, to secure its influence for his
people. Water only increased its burning; it was only extin­
guished by stifling it under a heap of dust.—Ed.
II. N
Digitized by UooQle
194 THE GREEK FIRE.
reveal it to them.
* Leon, the philosopher,! order­
ed brass tubes to be placed upon the vessels, and
tubes of smaller dimensions to be put in the bands
of the soldiers. Both shot forth fire upon the en­
emy, with a noise similar to that of thunder; but
the emperor alone directed the fabrication of that
fire.
It is said that Callinicus, of Heliopolis, in Syria,
invented the Greek fire in the seventh century of
our era; but he only restored or divulged a pro­
cess, the origin of which, like many others, was
lost in the obscurity of initiations. The initiated,
who were discovered and punished at Rome in the
year 186 b.c., possessed the secret; they plunged
their lighted torches into water without extinguish­
ing them, “ because,” says Livy, “ the composition
consisted of lime and sulphur but they most
probably added a bitumen, such as naphtha or
petroleum, to the other ingredients.”
Callinicus and the initiated must have borrowed
their unextinguishable fire from some Asiatic initi­
ation. The Persians possessed the secret, but
they reserved the use of it for combats. “ They
composed an oil with which they rubbed the darts,
which, when thrown with a moderate force, car­
ried with them, wherever they fixed themselves, de­
vouring flames,§ increased and strengthened by
water, and only extinguishable by dust.”
* Constantin. Pophyr., De administ. imper.
f Leon le philosophe, Institutions militaires, inst. xix., vol. ii.,
p. 139.
t Tit. Liv., lib. xxix., cap. xxiii.
§ Ammian. Marcell., lib. xxiii., cap. vi. Pliny {Hist. Nat., lib.
ii.,cap. civ.) describes the effects of a substance called maltha, of
which the inhabitants of Samosate made use against the soldiers
of Lucullus. The maltha was drawn from a neighboring pond
situated near the town. Naphtha, or petroleum, doubtless formed
the basis of it. Besieged by Lucullus, the defenders of Tigrano-
certa shot out inflamed naphtha upon their enemies. (Dio Cass.
—Xiphilin in Pompeio.)
Digitized by tjOOQle
THE GREEK FIRE. 195
Traditions almost always lead us back toward
Hindostan, when we are desirous of discovering
the inventors of ancient arts.
Among the numerous writers who have trans­
formed the history of Alexander into romance,
some relate that the Macedonian, when in India,
opposed to the elephants of his enemies machines
of bronze, or of iron, which vomited fire, and
which secured his conquest.
* Others, on the con­
trary, describe “ the large flashes of flame that
Alexander beheld as showered upon his army, on
the burning plains of India.”! These conflicting
recitals have a common foundation, and the tradition
only relates that, in India, a composition analogous
to the Greek fire was employed as an engine of
warfare. It was a composition similar to that which
a sorcerer and a sorceress shot forth from inflamed
jets, mentioned in one of the marvelous narrations
of Hindoo origin. The spectators of the combat,
and the combatants themselves, experienced the
bad effects of it.| Fictions of this kind generally
originate in reality. The fire which burns and
crackles on the bosom of the wares, instead of being
extinguished, denotes that the Greek fire was
anciently known in Hindostan, under the name of
the fire of Barrawa.^ It was employed against
besieged towns. On the banks of the Hyphasis,
an oil was composed, and inclosed in pots of
earth; and, on being shot out against the wood­
works, or the gates of a city, kindled with an un-
» J. Vactrius, Vit. Alerand. (discovered and published by M.
Mai), Biblioth. Univ. Literature, vol. vii., pp. 225, 226. Extract
from the romance of Alexander the Great, from a Persian manu­
script, 6cc.—Bibliotheque des Homans, Octobre, 1775, tome i.
t This tradition, given in an apocryphal letter of Alexander to
Aristotle, has been adopted by Dante, Inferno, cant. xiv.
f The Arabian Nights1 Entertainments, 55th night, vol. L, pp.
320-322.
$ Sacountala, ou VAnneaufatal, act, iii., sc. 2,
Digitized by v>ooQle
196 THE GREEK FIRE.
extinguishable flame. The fabrication of this dan­
gerous substance was left to the king; no other
person had permission to prepare even a drop of
it.”* This recital by Ctesias has been rejected,
because what the historian adds, as to the manner
of composing this unextinguishable oil, is thought
improbable. He has been assured that it was
drawn from a very dangerous water serpent. This
circumstance does not appear absolutely destitute
of truth. Philostratust says that the unextinguish­
able oil was extracted from a fresh water animal,
resembling a worm. In Japan, the inari, an
aquatic lizard, black and venomous, furnishes an
oil, which is burned in the temples.^ Nothing
interferes with the supposition that, in India, the
element of the unextinguishable fire—an animal
grease or oil—is united to the naphtha for giving
more body to the incendiary projectile, and a
longer duration to its action. In supposing, more­
over, that Ctesias had incorrectly translated and
misunderstood the account he received, or that an
erroneous account purposely had been given to
him, the fact itself does not remain less probable.
We again repeat, that we are too apt to accuse
the recitals of the ancients of absurdity. To con­
firm what they had said of the Greek fire,''Car­
dan has indicated the method of preparing fire­
works endowed with similar properties.§ Prompt
to refute Cardan, Scaliger,|| a man more erudite
* Ctesias in Indic.—Julian, De Nat. Animal., lib. v., cap. iii.
t Philostrat., Vit. Apollon., lib. iii., cap. i.—yElian (De Nat. .Ani­
mal., lib. v., cap. iii.), quoting Ctesias, also uses the expression
worm; but this worm, which lives in the river Indus, is
seven cubits long and of proportionate breadth. From the ex­
pression of .(Elian it may be interred that the oil thus prepared is
kindled without tire, and by the contact alone of a combustible
oody. t Koempfer, Histoire du Japan, liv. iii., chap, v., p. 53.
6 H. Cardan, De Subtilitate, lib. ii.
|1 J. C. Scaliger, Exoteric, ad. Cardan, xiii., no. 3.
Digitized by Croogle
GUNPOWDER KNOWN TO THE MAGI. 197
than able, and more presumptuous than erudite,
boldly ridiculed those who professed that they
could produce physical compositions which, ex­
posed to the rays of the sun, or sprinkled with
water, would ignite. A student of chemistry would
. ridicule Scaliger for such an opinion, and work,
before his eyes, two apparent miracles, which he
had declared to be impossible.
CHAPTER X.
Compositions similar to Gunpowder.—Mines worked by it under
Herod; by the Christian Priests under the Emperor Julian at
Jerusalem; in Syria under the Caliph Motassem; and by the
Priests of Delphi, in order to repulse the Persians and Gauls.—
Antiquity of the Invention of Gunpowder; its probable Origin
in Hindostan; it has been known from Time immemorial in
China.—Tartar Army repelled by Artillery.—Priests of Indiaem-
ployed the same Means to hurl Thunder upon their Enemies.—
The Thunder of Jupiter compared to our Firearms.—Many as­
sumed Miracles explained by the Use of these Arms.—Gunpow­
der was known in the latter Empire, probably until the Twelfth
Century.
Physical phenomena, and the services that
science extracts from them, link the one to the
other. The examination of the brilliant apparent
miracles effected by spontaneous inflammations
leads us to a discussion of the resources that the
Thaumaturgists employed in war to turn fire into
an offensive or defensive weapon. From the facts
which we have already quoted, we may presume
that very anciently they were in possession of some
inflammable composition more or less similar to
gunpowder,
* and that those tubes which threw
out a brilliant fire, with a noise like that of thun-
♦ Dutens (p. 194) supposes that they were actually acquainted
with gunpowder.—Ed.
Digitized by UooQle
198 gunpowder known to the magi.
der, may have been the first rough delineations of
our cannons and firearms.
* We could not then
have been accused of romancing, if we had said
that the ancients possessed, by these means, tbe
power of imitating the most formidable scourges ;
whether by shaking the earth by mines they saw
it open in chasms at their enemies’ feet, or by
sending from afar bolts as burning, speedy, and
inevitably fatal as lightning.
Herod descended into the monument of David
in the hope of finding treasure there. His cupidity
not being satisfied with what he had already found,
he extended his researches, and caused the vaults
in which the remains of David and Solomon were
laid to be opened. A fierce flame suddenly burst
out; two of the king’s guards, suffocated and burn­
ed by it, perished.! Michaelis attributes this prod­
igy to the gas, which, escaping from the vault, was
kindled by the torches destined to light the work­
men who were employed in clearing an entrance.^
But if such had been the case, these latter would
have been the first victims, as the expansion of the
gas must have taken place as soon as an opening
had been effected in the vault. We should rather
think that the priests, who had more than one motive
for hating Herod, and who looked upon the treas­
ures inclosed in David’s monument as the property
of the theocratic government, being justly indig­
nant at the sacrilegious pillage which the Idumean
prince was committing, sought, by stimulating his
cupidity, to attract him into the interior vault, where
they had prepared the certain means for his de-
♦ Bacon is inclined to think that the Macedonians had a kind
of magic powder, in its effects approaching to those of gunpowder.
(Encyclop. method Philosophic, vol. i., p. 341, col. 1.
t Josephus, Aut. Jud., lib. xvi., cap. iii.
t Magasin Scientijique de Gottingue, 3e annee, 6e cahier, 1783.
Digitized by UooQle
EXPLOSIONS APPARENTLY SUPERNATURAL. 199
struction, if, as they expected, he should be the
first to enter it *
* Ammianus JUarcellinus, lib. xxxiii., cap. i.
Michaelis! explains, in the same manner, by the
inflammation of subterraneous gas, the miracle
which interrupted the works ordered by the Em­
peror Julian for the restoration of the Temple of
Jerusalem, and at which the Christians rejoiced so
exceedingly that they were suspected to have been
the authors of it. This explanation seems to us
even less plausible than the former. If in the
globes of fire which shot out from the midst of the
rubbish, wounding and putting the workmen to
flight—if in the shaking of the ground, and the
overthrow of several buildings, we are not to rec­
ognize the springing of a mine-—we ask, what are
the signs by which the springing- of a mine is to be
recognized
♦ The conjecture of Michaelis is much more probable than the
explanation of our author. In long shut up vaults and caverns,
carbureted hydrogen gas, fire-damp, as it is termed by miners,
frequently form in large quantities, and is instantly fired on com­
ing into contact with a torch or any burning body. Now, as the
torches-must have been in the hands of the soldiers, not in those
of the workmen who preceded them, the gas would pass unin­
flamed over the workmen and be ignited only when it reached
those who held the torches.—Ed.
t Magasin Scientifique de Giittingue, loc. cit.
t This opinion, so confidently advanced by our author, is not
authorized by the account of Ammianus Marcellinus, who wit­
nessed the event, and who, being inimical to the Christians, was
not likely to conceal the opinion, if it existed, that the explosions
and emissions of fire, which defeated the intention of Julian to
rebuild the Jewish temple, were the result of art. The Jews,
also, who were eager for the restoration of the temple, would
have searched out the artifice and exposed it, had any existed ;
beside, had the cause which forced Alypius to discontinue the
work, been a mine which was sprung, although it might have
overthrown the buildings and killed the laborers, yet, it would
not have been constantly repeated in the manner described by the
historian, who, indeed, evidently ascribes the event to the ele­
ments in these expressions: “ Hocque modo elemento obstinatius
repellente.”* And also by his statement that “ the victorious ele-
Digitized by C>ooQle
200 EXPLOSIONS APPARENTLY SUPERNATURAL.
We may observe, that neither the Jews of Jeru­
salem, the Emperor Julian, nor Ammianus Mar-
cellinus, who has transmitted the account of it to
us, were converted to Christianity by this miracle.
ments continuing in this manner obstinately and resolutely bent
in driving them (the workmen) to a distance, Alypius thought
proper to abandon the enterprise.” Had the materials for spring­
ing several mines been placed in a limited space, and the erup­
tions confined to one spot, the destruction caused by the first ex­
plosion would have rendered any after-attempts to produce the
same ineffective. Again, were we to admit that new explosive
materials were employed in the subsequent explosions, new ex­
cavations must have been made; but any attempts to effect such
a purpose could not have been carried on unknown to the Jews
and pagans assembled on the spot; yet the eruptions were con­
stantly renewed as soon as the labor was resumed, until they ef­
fectually constrained the abandonment of the enterprise. The
Editor has no hesitation in saying, that if these explosions and
earthquakes were not a real miracle, as he firmly believes they
were, there are no data whatever for asserting that they were
produced by human art, as our author would imply ; and, conse­
quently, although they may ever remain otherwise unexplained,
yet they certainly can not be regarded as the result of the springing
of a mine. In favor of their being a real miracle, the prohibition
of our Savior with regard to the restoration of the temple required
to be fulfilled, and it has been accomplished up to the present
time: hence we see a purpose which the miracle was intended
to fulfill; and, in the event, the operation of a power adequate to
the effect. To borrow the language of Dr. Thomas Brown, “ the
possibility of the occasional direct operation of the power which
formed the world, in varying the usual course ofits events, it would
be in the highest degree unphilosophical to deny; nor even, we
presume, to estimate the degree of its probability, since, in many
cases, of the wide bearings of which on human happiness we must
be ignorant, it might be the result of the same benevolent motives
which we must suppose to have influenced the Divine Mind in
the original act of creation itself.”* Such is also the firm belief
of the Editor; and, in the events detailed, he perceives no law of
nature violated, and certainly no reason to withhold our faith in
the testimony of the historian of the event; on the contrary, we
may rationally suppose that the statement given of it by Ammia­
nus was in opposition to his personal interest. The phenomena
presented no violation of nature; but, as in every real miracle, it
was an extraordinary event, the result of new and peculiar cir­
cumstances, and a display intended to sanction the revelations of
that Being by whom the universe itself was called into existence.
—Ed.
* Jin Inquiry into the Relation of Cause and Effect, p. 500, notes.
Digitized by UooQle
EXPLOSIONS APPARENTLY SUPERNATURAL. 201
If we consult the annals of Greece, we shall find
that the priests of Apollo at Delphi, after having
announced by the voice of the oracle, that their god
knew well how to save his temple, did, in fact,
preserve it from the invasion of the Persians, and
then from that of the Gauls, by the explosion of
mines placed in the rocks that surrounded it. The
assailants were crushed by the fall of innumerable
blocks of stone, which, in the midst of devouring
flames, were rained upon them by an invisible
hand.
*
Pausanias, who attributes the defeat of the Gauls
to an earthquake and a miraculous storm, thus de­
scribes their effects : “The lightning not only kill­
ed those who were struck by it, but an inflamma­
ble exhalation was communicated to those who
were near, and reduced them to powder.”!
The explosion, however, of many mines, as vio­
lent as we could imagine, could not have produced
that total destruction of the assailants depicted by
the historians. On the contrary, we hear of the
same Gauls immediately afterward making a sue-
cessful incursion into Asia. They had been re­
pulsed, not exterminated, at Delphi.
With regard to the cause assigned for their re­
pulsion, would not the construction, it may be ar­
gued, of considerable mines, hollowed in the rocks
of Delphi, have required the aid of too many co­
operators for the secret to have been so long kept 1
To this argument it may be answered, that the
more simple and toilsome details must have been
confided to rude workmen, who could neither
dream, guess, nor divulge the intention of them;
and that these excavations were probably com­
menced long beforehand, as in the defensive works
* Herodot., lib. viii., cap. xxxvii.-xxxix.—Justin., lib. xxiv.,cap.
viii. t Pausanias, P4oc,, cap. xxiii.
Digitized by UooQle
202 SUBSTANCES RESEMBLING GUNPOWDER.
of modern strong places, and merely required the
fulminating composition to be deposited in them
when needed. Historical tradition furnishes us,
however, with a more decisive answer. Every
Greek, from Delphi to Thermopylae, was initiated
in the mysteries of the temple of Delphi.
* Their
secrecy, upon every point where silence was com­
manded, was guarantied, therefore, by a fear of
the evils threatened to a perjured revelation, and
by a general confession required from each aspi­
rant to this initiation: a confession which rather
caused them to fear the indiscretion of the priests
than to give the latter occasion to doubt theirs.
We may finally remark, that the god of Delphi,
so powerful in protecting his temple from stran­
gers, made no attempt to rescue its wealth from
the hands of the Phocians. When these latter
drained its resources, in order to defend their
country against the hypocritical ambition of Philip,
they had probably either obtained or compelled
the acquiescence of the priests, and no longer fear­
ed a destructive apparent miracle, which could
hardly be effected without the consent or the aid
of their chiefs.
So customary is it to deem the use of gunpow­
der of a very modem date, that these remarkable
facts have remained unnoticed, or, at least, have
merely led to the supposition that ancient nations
were acquainted with some composition almost as
deadly.! “ All that has been written,” says M. Na-
. * Plutarch, De Oracul. Defect.
t Various explosive substances are as destructive as gunpow­
der, and some of them might have been known to the ancients.
When a solution of gold in aqua regia is precipitated by ammo­
nia, and the product washed and dried without heat, it becomes
fulminating gold. It is exploded by the slightest friction, and
even can not be put into a bottle with a glass stopper without the
greatest danger. It explodes with a loud noise.
When nitrate of silver is acted upon by nitric acid and alcohol
Digitized by C>ooQle
INVENTION OF GUNPOWDER. 203
pione, “ by Egidio Colonna,• on instruments of
war employed at the end of the thirteenth century,
gives rise to a suspicion that the invention of gun­
powder is of much more ancient date than we are
accustomed to believe, and that this formidable
composition was perhaps nothing more than a mod­
ification or perfection of the Greek fire, known
many centuries before gunpowder was invented in
Europe.”
We have established the fact, that the invention
of the Greek fire belongs to a remote antiquity;
and we think that Langles was right in placing that
of gunpowder in an equally distant period. The
following is the substance of the facts by which he
supports his opinion.! The Moors in Spain made
use of gunpowder at the commencement of the
fourteenth century. From the year 1292, a poet
at the same time, a gray powder is procured, which,being washed
and dried, is fulminating silver. The explosive force of this pow­
der is great; it detonates with a tremendous noise on being touched
with a glass rod dipped in sulphuric acid.
When mercury is dissolved in nitric acid, and afterward alcohol
added,effervescence takes place, and a precipitate is thrown down,
which, after being washed and dried with a very gentle heat, forms
detonating mercury. It explodes with the least friction.
A mixture of chlorate of potassa and sulphur detonates with
friction, and even evolves flame. The noise caused by the explo­
sion of a few grains is equal to that of a musket.
The chloride of nitrogen, which was discovered by M. Dulong,
in 1812, is one of the most violent of all detonating substances.
It is procured in the form of an oil, and requires the utmost cau­
tion lx>th to make it and to preserve it. If a small globule of it be
thrown into olive oil, the most violent explosion takes place; and
this also happens when it is brought into contact with phosphorus,
naphtha, volatile oils, and many other matters.
All these compounds may have been unknown to the ancients;
but they are mentioned to show the probability of our ancestors
having an acquaintance with many detonating powders beside
those which we possess.—Ed.
* A Roman monk, who had a share in the education of Philip-
Ie-Bel.—Memorie della reale Academia delle Scienze di Torino, tome
xxix.—Revue Encyclopedique, tome xxx., p. 42.
t Dissertation inserted in the Magarin Encyclopedique, fourth
year, tome L, pp, 333-338.
Digitized by tjOOQle
204 INVENTION OF GUNPOWDER.
of Grenada celebrated this means of destruction
in his verses. There is also some reason for believ­
ing that the Arabs had made use of it against the
fleet of the Crusaders in the time of St. Louis; and
in 690 they employed it in the siege of Mecca.
Missionaries have undeniably proved that gunpow­
der has been known in China from time immemo­
rial. It was also known in Thibet and in Hindos­
tan, where fireworks and fireballs have been always
used in war, and in public rejoicings. In districts
of that vast country, where neither Mussulmans nor
Europeans had ever penetrated, iron fusees, at­
tached to a dart, which carried them into the
enemy’s ranks by the violence of the powder, have
been found. The laws collected in the code of the
Gentoos, the antiquity of which is lost in the ob­
scurity of the times, forbid the use of firearms (a
prohibition which, no doubt, prevented them from
becoming common).
These laws make a distinction between darts of
fire and those bolts that killed a hundred men at
once : the latter remind us of the effects of our
own cannon. The Hindoos, though unacquainted
with mortars, hollowed out holes in the rocks, and,
filling them with powder, rained down stones upon
their enemies, precisely like the hail which the
priest of Delphi sent down upon the Persians and
Gauls. Finally, a commentator of the Vedas attrib­
utes the invention of gunpowder to Visvacarma
*
the artist god, who is said to have manufactured
arrows which the gods made use of when fighting
against the evil genii.
* If this name has, as we are tempted to believe, furnished the
etymology of a French word (vacarme), but little known, it would
be inaptly translated “ burning power,”
From this feature of the Hindoo mythology,
learned from travelers, is it not likely, we may ask,
Digitized by Google
INVENTION OF GUNPOWDER. 205
that Milton derived the idea of attributing to the
rebel angels the invention of gunpowder and fire­
arms ? Langles has omitted to notice this resem­
blance ; and, doubtless, the right of poets to invent
appeared to him to weaken very much the author­
ity of their narrations. It was, nevertheless, easy
for him to find, in unexceptionable authorities on
physical facts, the confirmation of his conjectures.
He might have observed that, in China and in
Hindostan, the soil is so impregnated with salt­
peter that this salt frequently effloresces on the
surface of the earth : a phenomenon which must
have early suggested and facilitated the confection
of pyrotechnical compositions; and, at the same
time, have rendered the knowledge of them com­
mon, in spite of their importance as a part of the
sacred and occult sciences. It is this, also, that
has given to the Asiatic pyrotechnics so great a
preponderance over the European, and a superi­
ority scarcely yet controverted. Both the one and
the other advantages have often excited our incre­
dulity, and prevented us from confessing that others
may be able to perform feats of which we know
nothing. Fontenelle says that in China, according
to the annals of that empire, “ thousands of stars
are seen to fall at once from the heavens into the
sea, with a great noise, or to dissolve away into
rain. One star went bursting toward the east,
like a fusee, and always with a great noise.”*
How came it that the ingenious philosopher did
not recognize the effects of fusees and firework
bombst in this description ? It was well known
* Fontenelle, De la Pluralite des Mondes, sixieme soir (vers, la
fin).
t “ A very brilliant meteor, as large as the moon, was seen
finally splitting into sparks, and illuminating the whole valley.”
—Ross’s Second Voyage to the North Pole, chap, xlviii. We might
have thought that the Chinese tradition related to some fact
Digitized by UooqIc
200 INVENTION OF GUNPOWDER.
that the Chinese excelled in composing both ; but
Fontenelle preferred jesting on the pretended
astronomical science of the Chinese.
With more reason has a remarkable passage
from the voyages of Plancarpinus been turned
into ridicule. The Tartars informed this monk
that Prester-John,' King of Great India (prob­
ably a chief of Thibet, or of some nation pro­
fessing the Lamich religion), when attacked by
Tossuch, son of Tchinggis-Khan, led against his
assailants figures of bronze mounted on horseback.
In the interior of these figures was fire, and behind
each a man, who threw within them something
which immediately produced an immense smoke,
and enabled the enemies of the Taitars to massa­
cre them.
* It is difficult to believe that an intense
smoke would be sufficient to put to flight the com­
panions in arms of Tchinggis.
It is less repugnant to one’s prejudices to sup­
pose that these bronze figures might be either
small swivel guns, or cannon similar to those used
in China, which, by being taken to pieces, could
be easily transported about on horsesf—pieces of
artillery, in short, that most certainly emitted some­
thing else beside smoke. Tossuch’s soldiers, un­
acquainted with these arms, and having in their
flight abandoned their dead and wounded, could
only tell Plancarpinus of the flames and smoke
they had seen; but we can recognize the real
cause of their defeat, which was neither difficult to
understand nor miraculous. We know the inter­
course that Thibet, and the nations following the
religion of the Lamas, have always held with China,
similar to that which Ross had observed; but no European had
seen such meteors in China, and every traveler boasts of the fire­
works of that country.
♦ Voyage de Plancarpinus, art. v., p. 42.
f P. Maffei, Hist. Indic., lib. vi., p. 256.
Digitized by Google
INVENTION OF GUNPOWDER. 207
Now, a grandson of Tchinggis-Khan, in 1245, had
in his army a body of Chinese matrosses; and,
from the tenth century, they had in China thunder
chariots (chars dfoudre), producing, from the same
causes, the same effects as our cannon.
* Being
unable to fix the period when the use of gunpow­
der, firearms, and artillery was commenced in that
empire, national tradition has ascribed the inven­
tion to the first king of the country.! Now, as
this prince was much versed in magic arts,\ it was
not without some reason that we ranked the dis­
covery, of which he has the honor, among the
means employed for working apparent miracles.
* Abel Remusat’s Memoirs upon the Political Relations of the
Kings ofFrance to the Mongol Emperors.—Asiatic Journal, vol. i.,
p. 137.
t P. Maffei, Hist. Indic., loc. cit.
4 Linschott’s Travels in China, 3d edit., p. 53.
§ Philostrat., Vit. Apollon., lib. ii., cap. xiv.; lib. iii., cap. iii.—
Themist., Orat. xxvii.
These affinities strengthen, instead of affecting
the opinion of Langles, which ascribed the inven­
tion of gunpowder to the Hindoos, from whom
China, no doubt, received her civilization and arts,
as well as her popular religion.
The Greeks were not ignorant of the formidable
power of the weapons which were prepared in In­
dia by a secret process. Philostratus describes the
sages who dwelt between the Hyphasis and the
Ganges, as lanching forth with redoubled fury
lightning upon their enemies, and thus repelling
the aggressions of Bacchus and the Egyptian Her­
cules^
We may recall to remembrance the particular
arrows with which the gods of Hindostan armed
themselves against the evil genii. In the Greek
mythology, distantly, but decidedly derived from
the Hindoo, the gods are described as fighting*
*
*
§
Digitized by kjOOQle
208 INVENTION OF GUNPOWDER.
against the rebellious Titans, and securing their
victory by similar terrible arms. The numerous
points of resemblance, indeed, in the details of
these battles assimilate the weapons of the king of
the gods and men to modern artillery. “ The Cy­
clops,” says the historian Castor,
* “ assisted Jupiter
against the Titans with dazzling lightnings and
thunder.” In the war of the gods against the
giants, Vulcan, according to Apollodorus, killed
Clytius,! by sending fiery stones against him.
Typhon, brought forth by the earth to avenge the
giants, sent fiery stones flying against the heavens,
while from his mouth issued flames of fire. “ The
brothers of Saturn,” says Hesiod,| “freed from
their bonds by Jupiter, gave to him the thunder,
the dazzling lightnings, and thunderbolt, which
had been inclosed in the center of the earth ; and by
these weapons secured to this god his empire over
men and immortals.”
It is from the bosom of the earth that saltpeter,
sulphur, and bitumen, which most probably com­
posed the fulminating substance of the ancients, are
taken. Minerva alone, of all the divinities, knew
where the thunder§ was kept; the Cyclops alone
understood the manufacture of it; and Jupiter
severely punished Apollo for having attempted the
life of these invaluable artists. Now, if we set
aside the mythological ideas attached to these
names and recitals, we shall fancy that we are
reading the history of a prince, to whom some in­
dividual, from gratitude, had imparted the secret
of fabricating gunpowder, and who was as jealous
* Euseb., Chronic. Canon., lib. i., cap. xiii., note. This im.
portant passage is only found in the Armenian version published
by Zorhab and Mai.
t Apollodor.. Bibliothec., lib. i., cap. v.
t Hesiod, Theogon., vers. 502-507.
$ Jsschyl., Eumenid., vers. 829-831.
Digitized by Google
INVENTION OF GUNPOWDER. 209
of the exclusive possession of it, as the Byzantine
emperors were of reserving to themselves the se­
cret of the Greek fire.
The resemblance between the effects of thunder
and those of the inflammable compound we have
noticed is so striking, that it has been recorded in
all the historical and mythological narrations : nor
did it escape the observation of the natives of the
continent discovered by Christopher Columbus,
and conquered by Cortes and Pizarro. These un­
fortunate people took their conquerors for gods
armed with thunder, until they obtained the knowl­
edge for which they had paid dearly, namely, the
right of knowing in their persecutors only malevo­
lent spirits and enemies to humanity.
This resemblance explains a passage which Pliny
probably borrowed from some ancient poet, and
which has been the torment of his commentators.
In treating of the origin of magic, Pliny expresses
his surprise that this art had been dispersed over
Thessaly from the time of the siege of Troy, be­
fore which time Mars alone directed the thunder
(solo Marte fulminante). Is there not a visible
allusion to the power possessed by the sacred sci­
ence, and which magic, originating in the tem­
ples, aimed at arrogating to itself, the power of pro­
ducing lightning, as well as that of arming itself
with it in battle, and ofproducing explosions equal­
ing claps of thunder 1
Finally, it explains the death of Alexander’s
soldiers, who, having penetrated into the temple
of the Cabira, near Thebes, perished there, struck
by lightning and thunder :
* and also the story of
Porsennat killing, with one stroke of lightning, a
monster which ravaged the lands of his subjects.
♦ Pausanias, Batic., cap. xxv.
t Plin., Hist. Nat., lib. ii., cap. liii.
II. o
Digitized by Google
210 INVENTION OF GUNPOWDER.
In addition to these, we may mention the presump­
tion of the Etruscan magicians who, when Rome
was threatened with a siege from Alaric, offered
to repel the enemy, by sending down upon him
lightning and thunder; boasting that they had
effected this miracle at Narnia, a town which did
not, in fact, fall into the power of the Gothic king.
*
But, it may be asked, how came an art which
was known to the Christians of the-fourth century,
to the Etruscan magicians at the end of the fifth,
and preserved until the ninth century in Syria, to
fall into oblivion 1 And why, for instance, did the
historian Ducas describe thefalconets used against
Amurat II., by the defenders of Belgrade,f as a
novel invention, utterly unknown to his country­
men ? In reply, I may inquire, how have so many
other arts perished which were more widely dis­
persed and more immediately useful than those
referred to 1 And, beside, the secret imposed by
severe laws against revealing the composition of
the Greek fire may have existed as strictly with
respect to other important compositions.
I may, nevertheless, venture to affirm that this
art was not lost until a more recent period in the
latter empire. In the fifth century, Claudian de­
scribes in verse fireworks, and particularly the
burning suns.f Anthemus of Tralles, the architect,
who, under Justinian, traced out the designs and
* Sozomen, Hist. Eccles., lib. ix., cap. vi. If we may believe
Zozimus (Hist. Rom., lib. v.) the Bishop of Rome had consented
that the magicians should attempt the fulfillment of their prom­
ises ; but they were sent away, on account of the repugnance of
the people to their proposal, and the town capitulated.
+ Ducas, Hist. Imp. Joann, cap. xxx.
t Inque chori speciem spargentes ardua flammas
Scena rotet: varios effingat Mulciber orbes,
Per tabulas impund vagus ; pictaeque citato
Ludent igne trabes; et non permissa rnorari,
Pida per innocuas errent incendia turres.
Claudian, De Mall. Theodos, consulat., vers. 325-329.
Digitized by kjOOQle
PHYSICAL SCIENCE AN AID TO MAGIC. 211
directed the construction of the church of St. So­
phia,
* is reported to have sent lightning and thun­
der upon the house adjoining his ownJ Another
learned man points out a process for the manufact­
ure of fire to be sent against the enemy, which re­
minds us of the composition of our gunpowder.^
In short, the same composition for making it, and
in the proportions used in the present day, is de­
scribed by Marcus Graecus,§ who certainly did
not live later than the twelfth century, and Has
been thought by some to have existed before the
ninth. It would, no doubt, be curious to trace out
these inventions from the period when they still
existed in the latter empire to that in which they
became spread over Europe. One obstacle, diffi­
cult to overcome, is opposed to this investigation,
namely, that ignorance which, disdaining the sim­
ple truth, and eager after the marvelous, first treat­
ed as miracles, and then rejected as fabulous, the
very histories that might have instructed us.
CHAPTER XI.
The Thaumaturgists might have worked pretended Miracles with
the Air-gun, the Power of Steam, and the Magnet.—The Com­
pass was probably known to the Phocians, as well as the Phoe­
nician Navigators.—The Finns have a Compass of their own ;
and in China the Compass had been used since the Foundation
of the Empire.—Other Means of working pretended Miracles.—
Galvanic Phenomena.—Action of Vinegar upon Lime.—Amuse­
ments of Physics.—Lachryma Batavica, &c.
We approach the termination of our career.
Brilliant as may have been the promises we placed
* Procop., De jEdific. Justiniani, lib. i., cap. xxii.
t Agathias, De Rebus Justiniani, lib. v., cap. iv.
t Julius Africanus, cap. xliv.—Veter. Mathem., edit. Paris
p. 303.
§ Marcus Graecus, Liber Ignium ad comburendos hostes, edit, de
La Porte du Theil, Paris, 1804.
Digitized by UooqIc
212 PHYSICAL SCIENCE AN AID TO MAGIC.
in the mouth of the Thaumaturgist, we believe we
have proved that it would not have been impossi­
ble for him to accomplish many of them.
The subject is not yet, however, wholly exhaust­
ed. We might draw upon the knowledge possessed
by the ancients, as affording more than one means
of accounting for many marvels.
In speaking of missile weapons, we have not
included those set in motion by the elasticity of
compressed air. Even in the present day, the
display of an air-gun, sending out some deadly
projectile, without noise or explosion, would pre­
sent a miraculous appearance to men who were
indifferently educated. Philo, of Byzantium
*
who must have flourished in the third century be­
fore our era, has left an exact description of the
air-gun. He does not claim the invention ; and
no one would dare to decide how far it may or
may not have been of ancient date.f
Many historians speak of poisoned needles, pro­
jected through a tube by the breath and in the
* Revue Encyclopedique, tome xxiii., p. 529. Philo was an ar­
chitect, and built a dock at Athens.—En.
t The air-gun expels the ball by the sudden expansion of strong- i
ly condensed air, in a hollow ball screwed on to the barrel of the
gun immediately under the lock. The bullet is charged with the
air by means of a condensing syringe before it is screwed on the
barrel. When it is to be used, the ball is introduced into the 4
empty barrel; and the trigger being pulled, opens a valve which
admits the condensed air to rush from the hollow ball, and, acting
upon the bullet, to impel it to the distance of sixty or seventy '
yards, according to the degree of condensation of the discharged
air. If the condensation be twenty times that of atmospheric air, .
the velocity of the bullet will be equal to one seventh of that '
caused by gunpowder, the elasticity of the gas formed by the in­
flammation of which is equal to one thousand times that of com- ,
mon air. No noise accompanies the expulsion of the bullet:
hence the astonishment in the mind of a person wholly ignorant
of the nature of the air-gun would be greatly increased.—En. 1
1 Some of the tribes in South America, and on the coast of '
Africa, impel small poisoned arrows through long tubes in this
manner, and thus kill their prey, or victims, at a considerable dis­
tance.—En.
Digitized by C>ooQle
PHYSICAL SCIENCE AN AID TO MAGIC. 213
abridgment of Dion Cassius,
* we find two in­
stances of this crime having been committed with
impunity. The rapidity with which the poison of
these needles acts must, in particular cases, have
rendered their effects more marvelous. Some
Frenchmen employed in the service of Hyder Ali
and Tippoo Saib saw the prick of poisoned needles
cause death in less than two minutes, neither am­
putation nor any other means being of the least
use in preventing the fatal event. The ancients
were acquainted with poisons no less rapid.! We
repeat once more, therefore, what we have fre­
quently had occasion to say, namely, that with such
a secret, how easy must it have been to work ap­
parent miracles!
* Xiphilin in Domitian .... in Commod.
t The Gauls impregnated their arrows with so powerful a poi­
son, that the hunters made great haste to cut from the animal
they had hit that part touched by the arrow, lest the venomous
substances should infect and corrupt the entire mass of flesh
£ Arago, Notice sur les Machines a Vapeur.—Almanach du Bu­
reau des Longitudes, 1829, pp. 147-151.
The expansive power of water, when converted
into steam, is an agent, by the use of which, in the
present day, the aspect of the mechanical arts has
been completely changed; and which, engrafting
upon them an ever increasing progress, has pre­
pared for future generations an aid to industry, the
results of which we are unable to predict. We
may inquire, was this agent absolutely unknown
to the ancients 1 Did not Aristotle and Seneca,
when they attributed earthquakes to the action of
water, suddenly vaporized by subterranean beat,
point out a principle, the application of which
alone remained to be tried 1 And did not Hero,
of Alexandria, a hundred and twenty years before
our era, demonstrate how steam might be used for
giving to a hollow sphere a rotatory movement If
Digitized by kjOOQle
214 PHYSICAL SCIENCE AN AID TO MAGIC.
We shall quote, in conclusion, two remarkable
facts, one of which belongs to Anthemus of Tralles,
a learned man of the latter empire, to w’hom we
have already referred. It is related by Agathias,
his cotemporary, that, in order to revenge himself
upon the inhabitant of the house next his own, he
filled several vessels with water, upon which he
fixed copper tubes, very narrow at the upper end,
but sufficiently large at the lower extremities to
cover the vases to which they were hermetically
sealed. He applied the upper openings to the
rafters supporting the roof of the house which was
the object of his anger; then, causing the water to
boil, the steam soon rose in the tubes, expanded,
and affected the rafters opposing its escape with
violent movement.
* The coppers, it may be said,
would have burst a hundred times before one
rafter would have been lightly shaken. True,—
but, we may ask, were these tubes really copper 1
And might not the philosopher of Tralles encour­
age such an erroneous opinion, in order to conceal
and to preserve to himself the secret of this pro­
ceeding '! Strange, therefore, as is the explanation
related by the credulous Agathias, it clearly indi­
cates that Anthemus was acquainted with the
gigantic powers of steam.t
Another example conducts us to the banks of
the Weser, where Busterich received the homage
of the Teutons. His image was of metal, and
hollow; it was filled with water, and the orifices,
* Agathias, De Rebus Justiniani, lib. v,, cap. iv.
t The same historian has also adopted (loc. cit.) an erroneous
explanation of the marvel quoted by us at the conclusion of the
preceding chapter. According to him, Anthemus had managed it
by means of burning-machines and a concave mirror, the move­
ment of which made the dazzling reflections of the sun to fly here
and there. So slight an artifice would not have persuaded a man,
who was, like Anthemus’s enemy, a little instructed, that they
were sending the lightning against his dwelling.
Digitized by CjOOQle
PHYSICAL SCIENCE AN AID TO MAGIC. 215
or openings for the eyes and the mouth, were closed
with wooden wedges. When burning coals were
placed upon its head, the steam forced out the
wedges with an explosion, and escaped in torrents
of vapors from within
* —a most certain sign of
the god’s anger in the minds of his rude adorers.
* Tollii EpistoIcb Itineraries, pp. 34, 35.
t Nouvelles Annates des Voyages, tome i., p. 73.
t Vitruvius (De Archit., lib. iv.) and Pliny (Hist. Nat., lib. xxiv.)
say that this marvel was projected, but not executed. Suidas,
Cassiodorus, Isidore of Seville, and Ausonius, speak positively
of its existence. According to Ausonius (EidylUum x., Mosella,
vers. 314-320), Dinochares, by this means, elevated to the vault of
the temple the image of Arsinoe, the wife and sister of Ptolemy
Philadelphus: an iron hidden from sight by the hair of the statue
being attached to a magnet in the summit of the vault. Suidas
(verbo Mayw/f) speaks of a statue of Serapis, which, he says, was
of brass (probably plate copper), and supported by the same arti­
fice. Cassiodorus (Variar., lib. i., p. 45) and Isodorus (Origin., lib.
xvi., cap. 4) say that, suspended to the vault of one of the temples
of Diana, was an iron statue (doubtless of very thin iron plate),
which, according to the first of these writers, was a statue of Cu­
pid. Isidorus says that it was held there by the power of the
magnet, a particular and important feature in the narrative, which
Cassiodorus passed over in silence. Vitruvius and Pliny, being
more ancient, may have been better informed than the writers of
the latter empire; but in order to show that these may not have
If, passing from a nation a little civilized, we
look into the very infancy of society, we shall ob­
serve a similarity between the miraculous image
of the Teutonic god and the missile weapons used
by the natives of New Guinea, the explosion of
which, although they were not muskets,! was ac­
companied by smoke; a fact which seems to indi­
cate their impelling power to have been analogous
to steam. It would be curious to investigate this
matter!
Are we also certain that we know how far the
ancient Thaumaturgists made use of the magnet?
Its attractive property was so far understood by
them, that it was employed, it is said, for suspend­
ing a statue from the vault of a temple.J This
Digitized by C>ooQle
216 PHYSICAL SCIENCE AN AID TO MAGIC.
tradition, whether true or false, shows that the an­
cients may probably have taken advantage of mag­
netic attraction in working pretended miracles.
The attractive power of the magnet was not un­
known to the ancients; but, following the custom
adopted for increasing the veil of mystery, they
affirmed, and attempted to make it generally be­
lieved, that this property belonged to one species
of magnet only, namely, that of Ethiopia.
* We
are well aware, in the present day, of the effects
displayed by magnetic attraction and repulsion in
the exhibitions of experimental philosophy; and
let us remember that, in the temples, such per­
formances would have been looked upon as mir­
acles.
Modem Europe claims the discovery of the prin­
ciple that regulates the compass; f but this preten-
X
sinned against probability, it will be only sufficient to state that
the statue may nave been hollow and light, and the magnet very
strong.
The fable, which is extensively known, touching the coffin of
Mohammed,which is said to be suspended to thevault of a mosque,
furnishes an example of the inclination which men have of natu­
ralizing among themselves wonders borrowed from a foreign coun­
try and religion; nevertheless, a gross counterfeit does not de­
stroy the possibility of a fact, however much it may bear the ap­
pearance of improbability.
* Isid., Hispdl. Origin., lib. xvi., cap. iv.
t For the sake of some of our readers, it may be necessary to
state that the compass consists of a flat bar of steel, which, being
repeatedly rubbed with a magnet, and fixed upon a delicate pivot,
takes a direction nearly corresponding to the meridian, when
used for marine purposes, the needle is placed on a steel pivot,
which works in an agate socket let into the center of the mag­
netized bar. A circular card is divided into thirty-two parts, or
points, and these subdivided, so as to form three hundred and
sixty points at the circumference. It is attached to the needle, with
its point to the North Pole, marked usually by a kind of fleur-de-
lis. The whole apparatus is fixed in a circular box, in such a
manner that the card and needle are always level, and move freely,
and yet so as not to be deranged by sudden concussions. As far as
regards Europe, the compass was first used at sea by Seig. B. Gi-
vaia, of Naples, in the thirteenth century.—En.
Digitized by C>ooQle
PHYSICAL SCIENCE AN AID TO MAGIC. 217
sion may be contested. A remarkable passage in
the Odyssey has inspired an English scholar with a
very ingenious conjecture on this point. Alcinous
*
tells Ulysses that the Phocian vessels are regulated
and guided by a spirit. Unlike common boats,
they require, says he, no helmsman or pilot; and,
in spite of the profound darkness of the night and
the haze, they traverse the ocean with the greatest
rapidity, running no risk of being wrecked. Mr.
William Cookt explains this passage, by suppos­
ing that the Phocians understood the use of the
compass, and that they had learned it from the Phoe­
nicians.
* Homer, Odyss., lib. viii., vers. 553-563.
f William Cook, An Inquiry into the Patriarchal and Drvidtcal
Religion, <fc., in 4to., London, 1754, p. 22.
t Homer, Odyss., lib. vii., viii., et xiii.
| Refer to chap, iii., vol. i.
Upon this conjecture we shall offer some observa­
tions :
1st. His author might rely upon what Homer
several timesj says of the swift sailing of the Pbo-
cian vessels. Directed at large by the compass,
their speed must, in fact, have appeared prodi­
gious to navigators accustomed and forced to coast,
from the fear of losing sight of land for too long a
period.
2d, The figurative style characterizing the pas­
sage quoted belongs to a secret which the poet
knew only by its results. Homer thus transforms
a natural fact into a miracle; and, when he relates
that Neptune, unwilling that the Phocians should
save more strangers from the perils of the sea, had
changed into a rock the vessel which brought back
Ulysses to his country, adopts this opinion, the
origin of which we have already pointed out,§ in
order to explain that the art which had rendered
Digitized by kjOOQle
218 PHYSICAL SCIENCE AN AID TO MAGIC.
navigation so secure was lost from among the sub­
jects of Alcinous.
3d. That the Phoenicians should have understood
the use of the compass it is not difficult to believe,
particularly when we remember the frequent voy­
ages their navigators made to the British Isles: but
there is nothing to prove that they communicated
this secret to the inhabitants of Corcyra. Homer,
who is so exact in collecting all traditions relative
to the communication between the ancient Greeks
and the East, is silent upon this point. But he in­
forms us that the Phocians dwelt for a long time
near the Cyclops, and had but recently separated
from them; and, at the same time, he terms the
Cyclops very ingenious men ;
* an appropriate ex­
pression when applied to artists learned m the do-
cimasic and pyrotechnic arts, and who, for more
than thirty centuries, have left their names on
the gigantic monuments of architecture in Italy,
Greece, and Asia. We have elsewhere establish­
ed,! and, perhaps, with some probability, that the
Cyclops, like the Curetes, belonged to a learned
tribe, who had come from Asia to civilize and
govern some of the Pelasgian nations of Greece.
It is not surprising that the Phocians should have
profited by the instructions of this caste, before be­
coming so tired of its despotism as to have separ­
ated from it forever. We can even discern why
their good fortune or skill in their voyages ceased
soon after this separation. The father of Alcinous
had decided upon it, and under the reign of Al­
cinous the Phocians renounced navigation. Might
it not have been because the instruments obtained
from the liberality of their ancient masters had
* Homer, Odyss., lib. vii., vers. 4-8.
t Historical and Philosophical Essay upon the Names of Men,
Nations, and Places, § 81, vol. ii., pp. 161-172,
Digitized by UooQle
PHYSICAL SCIENCE AN AID TO MAGIC. 219
"been destroyed, and that they were ignorant how
to reconstruct others ?
It remains only to prove that the Cyclops did
possess so valuable a knowledge—a proof which is
nearly impossible.
We only know that they came from Lycia
* into
Asia; but they might have only crossed Lycia,
and have come from some more interior country
of Asia, like the hyperborean Olen, when, with
hymns and a religious faith, he brought the ele­
ments of civilization into Greece.
It was from the extremities of Asia also that
there came into Greece and Italy that northern
or Scythian Abaris, said to be endowed by the god
he worshiped with an arrow, by the assistance of
which he could overrun the universe. It has been
poetically said, and repeated by Suidas and lam­
blichus, that, by the virtue of this precious gift,
Abaris traversed the winds.] This expression has
been taken in its strictest sense; but lamblichus
adds, immediately afterward, that “Pythagoras de­
prived Abaris of the golden arrow with which he
steered his course (qua se gubernabat); that, having
thus robbed him, and having hidden the arrow, with­
out which he was unable to discover the track he
should follow, Pythagoras compelled him to ex­
plain its nature.^ If, instead of the pretended ar­
row, we substitute a magnetic needle of the same
form and large dimensions, gilded to preserve it
from rust, instead of an absurd fable, we shall
have in the narration of lamblichus a real fact, re­
lated by a man who had not penetrated its scien­
tific mystery.
♦ Lycia was a Pelasgian settlement.—Ed.
t Suidas, verbo Abaris.—lamblich., Vit. Pythagor., cap. xxviii.
•—See also Herodot., lib. iv., § 36.—Diod. Sic., lib. iii., cap. xi.
| lamblich., loc, cit.
Digitized by UooQle
220 PHYSICAL SCIENCE AN AID TO MAGIC.
All this, nevertheless, offers us only conjectures
more or less probable. Let us quote a fact. The
Finns possess a compass which could not possibly
have been given to them by Europeans, and the use
of which among them can be traced to ages un­
known. It presents this peculiarity: it describes
the rising and setting of the sun in summer and
winter, in a manner that could only agree with the
latitude of 49° 20'.
* This latitude crosses in Asia
the whole of Tartary, the Scythia of the ancients.
It is that under which Bailly was led to place the
nation which might be called “ inventors of the
sciences ;”t and that, too, in which, as Volneyf
has remarked, the Boundehesch, or fundamental
book of religion of Zoroaster, was written. If we
follow it, we are conducted in the East to that por­
tion of Tartary, the population of which—some­
times conquerors, sometimes subjects—were yet
intimately connected with the Chinese Empire.
Now, the ancient existence of the compass in
China has been denied by no one ;§ and we can
not regard as false the tradition,|| according to
which a Chinese hero, a long time before our era,
successfully made use of the magnet to guide his
march in the midst of darkness.
* Nouvelles Annales des Voyages, tome xvii., p. 414.
f Bailly, Lettres sur VOrigins des Sciences.—Lettres sur VAtlan-
tide.
t Volney, CEuvres Completes, tome iv., pp. 202, 203.
§ The Chinese trace the use of the compass among themselves
to the reign of Hoang-ti 2600 b.c. There is mention made of
magnetic chariots, or bearers of compasses, in the historical
memoirs of Szu-ma-thsian, 1110 b.c.—J. Klaproth, Letter upon
the Origin of the Compass.—Bulletin of the Geographical Society,
second series, vol. ii., p. 221.
|| Abel Remnsat, Memoirs upon the Political Relations between
the Kings ofFrance, and the Mongol Emperors.—Asiatic Journal, vol.
i., p. 137. The Hindoos made use of the compass, and there is
nothing to prove that they received it from the Europeans.
As the compass was known at the same time*
*
*
§
Digitized by C>ooQle
PHYSICAL SCIENCE AN AID TO MAGIC. 221
among the Chinese and the Finns, it is but natural
to recollect that the use of family names, unknown
in Europe for so long a period, but existing from
antiquity in China, seems to have passed from the
latter country to the Samoyedes, the Bashkirs, and
the Laplanders.
* This extension in the dark ages
of so useful and popular an institution, points out
to us the route which the disciples of the learned
caste, the possessors of a secret capable of display­
ing miracles, apparent, useful, and brilliant, might
possibly have taken in emigrating westward. It
renders probable an opinion, which at first might
seem chimerical, that the knowledge of the magnet
came from the latitude beneath which the religion
of Zoroaster sprang,! into those western countries
of Asia Minor where this religion was already es­
tablished, and where it had naturalized the prac­
tice of working apparent miracles peculiar to the
worshipers of fire4
* Eus^be Salverte, Essai Historique et Philosophique sur les
Norns d'Hommes, de Peuples, et de Lieux, § 21, tome L, pp. 35-44.
t Isidore de Seville (Origin., lib. xvi., cap. iv.) says that the
magnet was first found in India, and consequently received the
name of lapis indicus; but this isolated and vague fact does not
seem a sufficient reason for us to seek for the origin of the com­
pass in Hindostan.
t The idea suggested by the author, that the knowledge of the
magnet, consequently of the compass, came from the East, is
ingenious, and most probably correct. Both, assuredly, were
known in China, Japan, and India, from a period of high an­
tiquity, although they were unknown to European nations until
the twelfth century. It does not, however, appear that, although
the Chinese had long before employed the compass on land, it
was not used by them for maritime purposes until the dynasty of
Tsin, which existed in a.d. 419; at least there is no direct proof
that such was the case. It is stated in the great dictionary, Poi-
wen-yeu-fou, that “there were then ships directed to the South
by the needle.” That it was generally known as a guide at sea,
to the Asiatic nations, may be inferred from the following pas­
sage, contained in a MS. written in 1242, by Baiiak Kibdjaki, and
quoted in the Penny Cyclopedia (art. History of the Compass):
“ The captains who navigate the Syrian Sea, when the night is so
dark as to conceal from view the stars which might direct their
Digitized by UooqIc
222 PHYSICAL SCIENCE AN AID TO MAGIC.
We must hasten to add, in order to forestall ob­
jections, in which a natural partiality would be
mingled with a just love of truth, that the existence
of particular knowledge in antiquity, and among
course according to the position of the four cardinal points, take
a basin full of water, which they shelter from the wind by
placing it in the interior of the vessel; they then drive a needle
into a wooden peg or a cornstalk, so as to form the shape of a
cross, and throw it into the basin of water, on the surface of
which it floats. They afterward take a loadstone, of sufficient
size to fill the pahn of the hand, or even smaller, bring it to the
surface of the water, give to their hands a rotatory motion toward
the right, so that the needle turns on the surface of the water;
they then suddenly withdraw this hand and the magnet, when
the two points of the needle face north and south. They gave
me ocular demonstration of this process during our voyage from
Syria to Alexandria in the year 640 (of the Hegira).” The use
made of it on land by the Chinese, formerly referred to, is founded
on the following story, connected with the history of a Chinese
hero named Tehi-yeou, the truth of which is admitted to be un­
doubted :—
“ Tehi-yeou bore the name of Kiann; he was related to the
emperors Yan-ti. He delighted in war and turmoil. He .made
swords, lances, and large crossbows, to oppress and devastate
the empire. He called and brought together the chiefs of prov­
inces ; his grasping disposition and avarice exceeded all bounds.
Yan-ti-wang, unable any longer to keep him in check, ordered
him to withdraw himself to Chae-hao, in order that he might
detain him in the west. Tehi-yeou, nevertheless, persisted more
and more in his perverse conduct. He crossed the river Yang-
choui, ascended the Kieounae, and gave battle to the Emperor
Yang-ti at Khoung-sang. Yan-ti was Hinan-yuan, the proper
name of the emperor. Houang-ti then collected the forces of the
vassals of the empire, and attacked Tehi-yeou in the plains of
Tehou-lou. The latter raised a thick fog, in order that, by
means of the darkness, he might spread confusion in the enemy’s
army. But Hinan-yuan constructed a chariot for indicating the
South, in order to distinguish the four cardinal points, by means
of which h^ pursued Tehi-yeou and took him prisoner.”* It
appears also that the Chinese used the compass for maritime
purposes in the third century of the Christian era; it was also, as
stated above, employed on the coast of Syria before it came into
general use in Europe; and although the Syrian compass was
of a very rude construction, yet it was sufficient for navigating
their vessels at night. Vasco de Gama, when he doubled the
cape of Good Hope, found the Indian pilots expert in the use of
the compass.—Ed.
* Davies’s Early History of the Mariner's Compass.—British Annual,
1837.
Digitized by UooqIc
PHYSICAL SCIENCE AN AID TO MAGIC. 223
nations long unknown to us, does not prove that
the Europeans did not in modern times really in­
vent the arts and sciences, the discovery of which
they claim, and which they have undoubtedly re­
discovered. The art of typography is as ancient in
Thibet and China as the histories of these coun­
tries ; but it is less than four centuries ago since
Faust, Schdeffer, and Guttenberg enriched Euro­
pean civilization with it. It is sixteen or seven­
teen lusters since the progress of science has en­
abled us to recognize in the narrations of antiquity
the art of conducting lightning, rediscovered by
Franklin. The learned, perplexed in determining
the precise period of the reinvention of the com­
pass and of gunpowder, have no less difficulty in
stating that the use of either has been known over
Europe for not more than five or six hundred
years. The secrets of thaumaturgy must have
been very numerous, since the learned caste stud­
ied the physical sciences only with the view of
finding in them, almost with every new discovery,
a fresh means of astonishing, alarming, and govern­
ing the multitude. If, then, many of these secrets
have irrecoverably perished with the priests and
the temples, there may be others, the memory of
which, entombed in some ancient documents be­
neath a fabulous covering, will some day emerge
from their graves, awakened by fortunate events;
in effecting the disinterment of which, without
doing less honor to the human mind, their authors
will nevertheless be but reinventors.
We might proffer some specimens of this kind.
Chance revealed to Cotugno the first phenomena
of galvanism, as accident also afterward revealed
them to Galvani, who has merited the title of the
discoverer, from having brought to perfection, by
reasoning and investigation, a knowdedge at first
Digitized by kjOOQle
2C4 PHYSICAL SCIENCE AN AID TO MAGIC.
fortuitous. If chance had enriched some ancient
Thaumaturgist with the same discovery, with what
apparent miracles would he not have electrified
his admirers, even although he had merely limited
himself to the first principles of galvanism, and to
the experiments which they might place in his
power upon the bodies of animals recently de­
prived of life.
* Even in the eighteenth century
we have witnessed men who pretended from some
♦ Galvanism is a modification of electricity, which is capable
of producing on bodies effects not usually obtained from ordinary
electrical excitation. The first display of its power was noticed
by Subzer, a German, who found that when a disk of lead is
placed under the tongue, and one of silver over the tongue, and
the edges of both metals are brought into contact, a peculiar
taste is perceived ;
* but he pursued the inquiry no further.
Other fortuitous incidents afterward might have led to the dis­
covery, but, for the reason stated in the text, Galvani, professor
of anatomy at Bologna, is justly regarded as its discoverer. It is
unnecessary, here, to enter upon the general phenomena pro­
duced, both on organic and inorganic matter, by galvanism ; but,
in order to demonstrate how it might be employed to excite
astonishment and even terror, and, consequently, become an in­
strument of power over the ignorant and the superstitious, in
periods of less general intellectual cultivation than the present, I
will only mention a few of its physiological effects. If a piece
of tinfoil, attached to the extremity of a wire connected with one
pole of a galvanic pile, be placed on the tongue, and the bent ex­
tremity of another wire from the opposite pole be pressed upon
the inner corner of the eye, a flash of light and a sensation of a
blow on the eve will be immediately perceived by the person
thus treated. When a current of galvanism is passed along a
nerve to any muscles of voluntary motion, these muscles are
thrown into convulsive contraction, even if the animal has been
dead for a short time, as long as the muscles retain their irri­
tability. Aldini operated on the body of a criminal executed at
Newgate: the convulsive movements were such as might have
excited a belief that the dead man was restored to the power of
sensation ; and, from the terrific expressions of human passion
and agony, that he was enduring the most intense suffering. I
may again repeat, what extent of power would such experiments
have, placed in the hands of those who aimed to deceive the
credulous into the conviction that the whole was the result of
supernatural agency ; a deception easily effected were the instru­
ment concealed, and the wires only brought into view.—Ed.
♦ Theorie dc8 Plaisirs, p. 115.
Digitized by C>ooQle
PHYSICAL SCIENCE AN AID TO MAGIC. 225
internal feeling, or by the aid of a divining rod, to
discover the springs concealed in the earth at
depths more or less considerable.
* Edrisi relates
that a caravan traversing Northern Africa was
nearly perishing from thirst upon a barren and
sandy soil, when one of the travelers, a black Ber-
beri man, taking a little of the earth up and smell­
ing it, pointed out a spot where they might dig
and find a spring of water.! His prediction was
instantly verified. Place a charlatan in such a
situation, he would pride himself upon having per­
formed a miracle, and the gratitude of his com­
panions in danger would support his pretensions.
In the month of August, 1808, an egg was found
upon the altar of the Patriarchal Church at Lisbon,
bearing upon its shell the sentence of death of all
the French, although there did not appear to be
traces of the writing being the production of the
hand of man. This apparent miracle caused much
anxious excitement among the Portuguese, until
the French distributed throughout the town, and
had placed in all the churches, an immense num­
ber of eggs, upon the shells of which the contra­
diction of this lie was written; at the same time
proclamations were everywhere posted up, ex-
♦ The divining rod is a forked branch of hazel, or even any
tree, which, if carried slowly along, loosely suspended in the
hand, is said to dip toward the ground when brought over the
spot where a mine or a spring is situated. Compared with other
divinations, this rod is of recent introduction, and demonstrates
that superstitious credence and impudent imposture are not con­
fined to any age; and humanity is humbled in beholding men
with considerable pretensions to science believers in the powers
ascribed to the divining rod. Thevenot published a memoir on
the relation of the phenomena of this rod to those of electricity
and magnetism; and Pryce, our countryman, in his work entitled
Mineralogia Cambrienxis, published in 1778, has’collected accounts
of many successful experiments which he affirms were performed
by it.—Ed.
t Edrisi (traduction francaice), lib. i., cap. xxii,
II. P
Digitized by C>ooQle
226 PHYSICAL SCIENCE AN AID TO MAGIC.
plaining the secret of the supposed miracle, which
consisted in writing upon the shell, when covered
with an oily substance, and then plunging and re­
taining the egg for some time in an acid.
*
* P. Thiebault, Relation de VExpedition de Portugal, pp. 170,
171.
t Plin., Hist. Nat., lib. xxxiii., cap. i. et ii.—Dion. Cass., lib.
xxxvii., cap. viii. Might not the story this refers to have its
origin in some manoeuver employed by Hannibal to restore to his
troops that courage which the multiplicity of the obstacles they
had to overcome were depriving them of?
J Without entering into any explanation of the nature of this
machine, some idea of its power may be given by simply stating
the fact that, in a machine the area of the section of the piston
of which is sixty-four inches, that of the valve admitting the
water into the cylinder is an eighth of an inch, and the power
of the pump applied to it is one tun, the pressure effected by it
will be four thousand and ninety-six tuns I—Ed.
By the same method, letters or hieroglyphics
can be engraved, either grooved or in relief, upon
a table of calcareous stone, leaving behind no
traces of a mortal hand. Now, the ancients were
acquainted with the strong action of vinegar upon
such stones, although they have somewhat exag­
gerated it, by adopting the story which they have
recorded in history of the passage of the Alps by
Hannibal.t
The area of the base of a vessel compared with
its height, whatever may be its form, is the measure
of the pressure of the liquid it 'contains. This
principle, which explains the powerful action of
the hydrostatic press, may possibly have been
known in the ancient temples; and how easy
would it not have rendered the execution of many
apparent miracles 1 Indeed, is it not very closely
resembling a miracle, when the effect produced
appears so greatly disproportioned to its actual
cause 1 What more wonderful than the enormous
pressure which the small quantity of liquid neces­
sary to produce it causes
Digitized by C>ooQle
PHYSICAL SCIENCE AN AID TO MAGIC. 227
Let us descend, however, to the amusements of
experimental philosophy. Let us suppose that the
ancient Thaumaturgists were acquainted with in­
ventions, the singular effects of which will always
astonish the vulgar—the Lachryma Batavica,
* for
instance, or the Bologna matrasses ;t even the
games of children, such as the kaleidoscope,| or
those little dolls which, when placed upon musical
tables or instruments, move in time, and turn one
another round, as in waltzing.§ If it be possible
to effect wonders by such insignificant means, are
we not right in concluding that an immense num­
ber of the assumed miracles of antiquity proceeded
from similar causes 1 The means are lost, but the
remembrance of the effects remain.
We might multiply such suppositions, but we
think we have said enough to attain our object.
* Tears of glass, which may be struck by a hammer upon
their spherical surface without breaking, but which fall into
powder as soon as the thread which forms the tail of the tear is
broken.
t Little pear-shaped bottles of unannealed white glass, within
which balls of marble or of ivory may be rolled, without injuring
them ; but if a fragment of flint, although no larger than a grain
of hemp seed, fall into them, they break in the hand into five or
six pieces. These matrasses and Batavian tears are truly in­
teresting to curiosity. They are now seldom manufactured; and
when the time arrives, long after they shall have ceased to be
made, the account of them will appear a fable, and we shall re­
fuse to believe in their wonderful properties.
t The kaleidoscope is a small instrument invented by Sir
David Brewster. It consists of a cylindrical tube, containing
two reflecting surfaces inclined to each other at any angle which
is an aliquot part of 360°, and having their edges in contact, so
as to have the form of a half-opened book. When any object is
placed in the tube, so as to be reflected by the above surfaces,
and the other end of the tube is applied to the eye, and turned
round, an ever varying succession of splendid tints and beautiful
symmetrical forms are perceived ; sometimes vanishing from the
center, sometimes emerging from it, and sometimes playing
around it in double and opposite oscillations in the most pleas­
ing manner.—Ed.
§ This game was known, when invented, under the name of
danso-musicomanes.
Digitized by C>ooQle
228 CONCLUSION.
Setting aside every thing belonging to sleight of
hand, to imposture, or the illusions of the imagina­
tion, there are none of the ancient apparent mir­
acles that may not be reproduced by any person
well versed in the modern science, either imme­
diately, or by applying himself to penetrate the
mystery, and discover the causes. Modern science
also affords facility for operating other apparent
miracles, not less numerous nor less brilliant than
those contained in history.
The observation of what modern jugglers are
able to effect, tends, in a great degree, to explain
many of the magical operations of the ancients.
CHAPTER XII.
Conclusion.—Principlesfollowed in the Course of the Discussion.
—Reply to the Objection that the scientific Acquirements of the
Ancients are lost.—Democritus alone, among them, occupied
himself with Observations on Experimental Philosophy.—This
Philosopher perceived, in the Operations of Magic, the scientific
Application of the Laws ofNature.—Utility of studying the ap­
parent Miracles of the Ancients in this Point of View.—The
Thaumaturgists did not connect together their learned Concep­
tions by any Theory, which is a Proof that they had received
them from a prior Period.—The first Thaumaturgists can not be
accused of Imposition; but it would be dangerous, in this day,
to attempt to subjugate a People by apparent Miracles.—Volun­
tary Obedience to the Laws is a certain Consequence of the
Happiness which just Legislation procures to Men.
We have undertaken to restore to ancient his­
tory that grandeur of which an apparent mixture
of puerile fables robbed it; and to demonstrate
that the apparent miracles and the magical opera­
tions of the ancients were the result of real scien­
tific knowledge, more or less advanced, which the
Thaumaturgists, for the most part, had secretly
transmitted from one period to another; at the
Digitized by Google
CONCLUSION. 229
same time, with the greatest care, concealing that
knowledge from all other men.
Two principles have regulated our conclusions :
1st. We consider it absurd to wonder at, or to
refuse to believe, what appears supernatural, when
it can be naturally explained.
2d. We regard it reasonable to admit that the
physical knowledge proper for the working of ap­
parent miracles was possessed by some men, at the
time and in the country where historical tradition
has placed the miracles.
There must, we maintain, be a plausible motive
for denying what has often been attested by many
authors, and repeated at divers times : that motive
no longer exists; and the apparent miracle reenters
the class of historical facts, when an explanation,
deduced from the nature of things, has dispelled
the supernatural appearance that caused it to be
regarded as chimerical.
But, again, how is it that conceptions of such
high interests have never descended to us 1 His­
tories have been lost over all the world connected
with the greatest parts of past times; and also
much knowledge of every kind, the possession of
which by the ancients can not be disputed. To the
general causes of destruction which have occasion­
ed these immense gaps in the domain of human in­
telligence are joined two in particular, the power
of which we have described: the one is the mys­
tery with which religious and political interests en­
deavored to envelop free ideas; the other is the
want of a systematic connection, which alone could
have established between them an accurate theory,
a connection without which facts were successively
lost. There was also no possibility remaining for
those which survived to recover those which sank
gradually into the abyss of oblivion, from the lapse
Digitized by C>ooQle
230 CONCLUSION.
of time, from negligence, fear, superstition, and
ignorance.
We must not judge ancient conceptions by our
own. Experimental chemistry, considered as a
science, dates from the last century. It only ex­
isted before as a capricious empiricism, directed
by chance, misled by the dreams of the alchemist.
More anciently, the Romans had copied the writ­
ings of the Greeks, who themselves, without at­
tempting more experiments, copied what they
found in the most ancient books, or in the recitals
of foreign authois, whom they did not always un­
derstand. Democritus
* alone seems to have felt
the necessity of observing, of learning, and of
knowing for himself.t He passed his life in making
* Democritus was born at Abdera, in Thrace, in the year 460
b.c. He received his first instructions partly from some Magi
that were left by Xerxes at Abdera, partly from Leucippus, a cele­
brated philosopher of Elea. He traveled into Egypt, in order to
acquire geometry from the Egyptian priests; and also visited
Persia and Athens for the purpose of obtaining knowledge, in the
pursuit Qf which he expended all.his patrimony, and returned to
Abdera in a state of indigence. This rendered him liable to a law
which denied funereal rites in the state to any native who had
spent his patrimony; but having read one of his works, the Dias-
cosmus, aloud to his fellow-citizens, he not only acquired an ex­
emption from this law, but received a present of, it is said, five
hundred talents; and, at his death, was buried at the public ex­
pense.
Democritus loved retirement and study; and the tradition runs,
that he put out his eyes that he might not be disturbed from medi­
tation by external objects. He was, perhaps, on this account ac­
cused of insanity; but Hippocrates declared that his accusers,
not Democritus, were mad. His doctrines were of a very singular
character. Thus, he contended for the eternity of the universe;
that every thing, even mind,was material; and that the latter
was only different from material bodies by the arrangements of
its component atoms. In morals, he contended that the only
thing needful was a cheerful spirit; and as he took every oppor­
tunity of laughing at the follies of mankind, he acquired the ap­
pellation of the Laughing Philosopher. From the extent of his
acquirements, he was regarded by the ignorant as a magician, es­
pecially in the close of his life, which extended to one hundred
and four years. He died in the year 357 b.c.—Ed.
+ Encyclop. Method. PhilosophicAncienne etModeme, tome i., p. 319.
Digitized by C>ooQle
CONCLUSION. 231
experiments, in noting down in a book, which treats
of nature, facts that he had verified.
* We may
ask, to what point had he conducted his research­
es, in pursuing which he had probably no theory
to serve him as a guide 1 It is difficult to conjec­
ture, his works having long since perished. It is
at least certain, that in the general opinion they
had acquired very great authority. So great was
the weight of his testimony in physics and in natu­
ral history, that works published under his name,
but not written by him, circulated widely, although
filled with ridiculous fables upon the properties of
minerals, animals, and plants.! Pliny, who often
quotes these pretended works of Democritus, be­
lieved in their authenticity; but Aulus Gellius has
unveiled the impositions, and is justly indignant at
the outrage made on the memory of so great a man.
* Petron., Satyric.—Vitruv., De Architect., lib. ix., cap. iii.
t Aul. Gell., Noct. Attic., lib. x., cap. xii.—Columell., De Re
Ruetica, lib. vii., cap. v.—Diogen. Laert. in Democrit. vit., sub.
finem.
X “ Accepimus Democritum Abderitem, ostentatione scrupuli hujue
(catochitis lapidis) frequenter usum, ad probandam occultam natures
potentiam, in certaminibus qua contra magos habuit.” (Solin., cap.
lx.) § Lucian, Philopseud. || Diogen. Laert. in Democrit. vit.
In a passage, unfortunately too concise, Solinusf
seems to present Democritus as engaged in a fre­
quent contest against the Magi, and opposing to
their impostures phenomena prodigious in appear­
ance, but nevertheless natural, to show them how
far the power of the hidden properties of bodies
can extend. “Democritus,” says Lucian,§ “be­
lieved in no miracle, persuaded that those which
were effected owed their success to deception ; and
he applied himself to discover the method by
which they could deceive : in a word, his philos­
ophy brought him to this conclusion, that magic
(an art well known by him, since the Magi|| were
Digitized by Google
232 CONCLUSION.
its institutors), was entirely confined to the applica­
tion and the imitation of the laws and the works of
nature.”
This opinion,professed by the first acknowledged
philosopher of antiquity who studied science as it
ought to be, is precisely that which we have
striven to establish. If we have not labored in
vain, we may be allowed to deduce from this theo­
rem some consequences upon the possible advan­
ces of the knowledge of nature, in reference to the
history of mankind and the principles of civiliza­
tion.
1st. The ancients, until an epoch which we have
not presumed to trace back, were so much occu­
pied with particular facts, that they did not seek
to arrange and connect them. The moderns, per­
haps, fall into the opposite excess. Do they not
neglect too much to take advantage of isolated
facts deposited in books, and reproduced even in
the laboratories, but which, otherwise, do not direct
our researches to any immediate application, nor
display either any affinity or any opposition to the
existing theories 1
We have seen that much may be gained to nat­
ural history by the examination and the discussion
of the prodigies related by the ancients : and we
contend that the study of their apparent miracles
and their magical operations would not be without
advantage to physics and to chemistry. In attempt­
ing to arrive at the same results as the Thauma-
turgists (and at which they have allowed us to
glance), or that can be supposed to have emanated
from them, curious, even useful discoveries, in
application to the arts, would be obtained; and a
great service thus rendered to the history of the
human mind, as the important sciences lost sight
of would be recovered. The loss of these among
Digitized by Google
CONCLUSION. 233
the Romans and the Greeks was owing to, or, at
least,'was accelerated by, the absolute defect of
method and of theory.
2d. The inevitable consequence of this failure
is, that the magicians and the Thaumaturgists
have never been separable from their books, and
have been merely the slaves of their formularies—
truly apprentices; and indeed, they were only
mechanically acquainted with the processes of theii
art, without even distinguishing how far supersti­
tion, ox the intention of imposing it, had mingled
with superfluous ceremonies. The most ancient,
as well as the most recent, present this character­
istic trait. If they did not, then, invent any thing,
from whom, it may be asked, did they procure
their secrets, their formularies, their books, and
their entire art! We have to investigate this
branch of knowledge, as every other, precipitated
into indeterminate times, when the sciences were
either invented or perfected. They afterward fell
into decay, and only were kept in view by incohe­
rent lights, shed upon the minds of men who re­
tained the employment ofthem without understand­
ing their nature. We are here thrown back into
that antiquity which history points out confusedly,
but which is anterior to history.
3d. In attempting to penetrate, by the aid of
some probable conjectures, into that darkness
which the course of time renders progressively
more profound, a remarkable trait has struck us :
namely, that the opinion which ascribed a celestial
origin to miracles and to magic was not, in the
main, the consequence of an imposition, but was
born of that piety which desired that every kind
of excellence should emanate from the Divinity.
*
* As far as respects real miracles, no other opinion can be form­
ed ; for what idea can be formed of a miracle if not that published
Digitized by kjOOQle
234 CONCLUSION.
It was maintained by the figurative style, which
naturally amalgamated itself with religious senti­
ments. Thus, among the legislators, who have had
recourse to this venerated agent for giving stabil­
ity to their operations, the most ancient, at least,
are not supported by falsehood; they have not pro­
fessed that execrable doctrine, that it is necessary
to deceive men. It was in good faith that they de­
clared themselves inspired, and that they offered
their marvelous works as proofs of their mission,
because they humbly ascribed their knowledge,
their virtues, their sublime views, and their con­
ceptions above the vulgar, to the Divinity.
These great men, were they now alive, would
adopt a very different method. He who would
seek, in the present day, in the art of work­
ing apparent miracles, an instrument for acting
upon civilization, would soon fail, because he would
knowingly deceive: his dishonesty, contrary to
morality, would be contrary to the spirit of pro­
gressive civilization, which ever tends to draw aside
the veil behind which nature and truth are often
concealed.
Must it then be Concluded that, deprived of this
powerful lever, legislation must be powerless over
the minds of men, and that to direct their actions
it has need of a perpetual coercive force ? We
reply, certainly not! Whatever may be said of
our own times, it is not necessary to deceive men
when it is intended to conduct them to happiness.
The man who deceives thinks less of serving
those whom he deceives than of upholding his
own pride, securing his personal ambition, or satis-
by Dr. Thomas Reid, namely, that it is “ an effect that indicates
a power of a higher order than the powers which we are accus­
tomed directly to trace in phenomena more familiar to us, but a
Power whose continued and ever present existence it is Atheism
only that denies.”—Ed.
Digitized by UooQle
CONCLUSION. 235
fying his cupidity. The desire of being governed
is natural to men, when they become members of
the social state; it increases among nations in the
ratio of their knowledge and well-being, and in
proportion to the reasonable desire of enjoying un­
disturbed the advantages that they possess. It is
with this sentiment that the politician whose inten­
tions are upright will find a foundation to build
upon, not less solid than that which he would ac­
quire from an assumed intervention of Divinity—
a foundation which will never give way, nor leave
him exposed to the inconveniences nor to the
serious consequences that religious fiction leads
to, and which will never threaten to overthrow
what is founded upon reason, and upon the pro­
gress of natural perceptions.
“ Kings! reign for your people!” and then to
the astonished observer, who shall ask to what
illusions their obedience and your power are due,
you can reply, “ Here is all our magic ; here is the
source of all our apparent miraculous power.”
Digitized by kjOOQle
Digitized by Google
ILLUSTRATIONS.
UPON DRAGONS AND MONSTROUS SERPENTS, MENTIONED IN
A GREAT MANY FABULOUS OR HISTORICAL NARRATIONS.
There are, perhaps, in the empire of the marvelous no
narrations that occur more frequently than those which de­
scribe some winged dragon, or serpent of monstrous dimen­
sions, devouring men and animals, until, by the force of he­
roic valor or some miraculous power, the country which is
exposed to its ravages is delivered. Dupuis
* and M. Alex.
.Lenoirt have imagined these narrations to be the figura­
tive expressions of the astronomical themes of Perseus, the
liberator of Andromeda, threatened by a sea monster; of
Orion, the vanquisher of a serpent, emblems in themselves
of the victory of virtue over vice, the principle of good over
the principle of evil. They regard it also, when divested of
eveiy allegorical veil, as intimating the victory of the spring
sun over the winter sun, and of light over darkness.
* Dupuis, Origine de tous les cultes.
t A. Lenoir, Du Dragon de Metz, appete GraouiHy, &c. M&noires de
VAeademie Critique, tome ii., p. 1-20.
It is under a different aspect that we propose to treat of
the same subject: we shall inquire how it is that an astro­
nomical emblem has been so frequently converted into a
positive subject of history ; what are the causes which have,
in different places, introduced such remarkable variations
into the legend ; and, finally, why other myths or other facts
have been added or united to this legend, which originally
were unconnected 'with it 1
§ I.
OF REPTILES ATTAINING UNCOMMON GROWTH, WHICH HAVE EX­
ISTED, AND GIVEN RISE TO, OR CONFIRMED, MANY OF THESE
NARRATIONS.
We may inquire whether there ever existed reptiles of
a proportion extraordinary enough, or animals ofa form mon­
strous enough, to have given a natural origin to the legends
now under discussion 1
Digitized by Goo; '
238 ILLUSTRATIONS.
Finding, from traditions, that dragons abounded in the de­
partment of Finisterre, and were overcome by supernatural
power, an observer
* has conjectured that these monsters,
the subjects of so many legends, might have been the croc­
odiles that formerly infested the rivers of France, and the
bones of which have been found in several parts. The thing
is not impossible.
In 1815 a crocodile was killed near Calcutta, which meas­
ured from seventeen to eighteen English feet in length,
armed with enormous claws. “ At the place where the head
and body joined was a swelling, from which rose four bony
projections; and upon the back were three other rows of
similar projections, and four more diverged from the tail,
the end of which formed a kind of saw, being, indeed, the
continuation of these projecting files.”f These swellings
and these bony projections were looked upon as defensive
weapons ; and similar projections were also found upon the
famous Tarasque of Tarascon, and many other dragons or
serpents represented in the pictures of different legends.
Here, again, the fiction may possibly have originated in the
paintings exaggerating a fact actually observed.
It was rumored several years ago, that a monstrous rep­
tile had been killed at the foot of Mount Salevus; and rav­
ages proportioned to its size were attributed to it. Its car­
cass was examined by naturalists, first at Geneva, and then
at Paris. It proved to be nothing more than an adder of ex­
traordinary growth, but in no respect prodigious. In a less
enlightened age, we may ask, would more have been neces­
sary for furnishing to the mountaineers of Savoy a marvel­
ous narration, which would have been confirmed by tradi­
tion, and probably enlarged in each succeeding generation I
History has perpetuated the memoiy of the serpent which
Regulus opposed in Africa with engines of war. It was
probably a boa constrictor, which had attained to its great­
est degree of growth.! Allowing something to exaggera-
* M. de FrSminville, Memoires de la Soci&6 des Antiquaires de France,
tom. xi., p. 8, 9.
t Bibliothcqne UniverscUc (Gen&ve) Sciences, tome iv., p. 222, 223.
! The tradition, as Livy relates it, makes this gigantic Numidian Py­
thon one hundred and twenty feet long; and it also stated that, when de­
stroyed, the decomposing carcass of the monster so polluted the air that
the Romans were forced to move their camp. The skin was neverthe­
less secured, and sent in triumph to Rome. This serpent, the African
Python, differs in some of its features from the boa of South America,
but it resembles that reptile in its bulk, its muscular strength, and the al>-
sence of poison fangs. In South America the boa is viewed with horror,
on account of a belief that it exercises a certain influence over the des­
tiny of any one who injures it, and, sooner or later, he suffers severely
Digitized by UooQle
ILLUSTRATIONS. 239
tion, the natural language of surprise and fear, it becomes
easy to reconcile the tradition here with truth and probability.
It is not always necessary to assume much exaggeration.
A modem traveler
* assures us that in the mountains of
Galese serpents from thirty to forty feet in length are still to
be met with. ^Eliant mentions also, in several places, rep­
tiles of an extraordinary size. Let us recollect that an al­
most religious respect for the lives of certain animals must
formerly, particularly in India, have permitted serpents, by
growing old, to attain to enormous dimensions. This re­
spect for serpents was seconded by a superstition which, in
the temples, consecrated many of the reptiles. Alexander
admired in one of the Indian temples a serpent which is re­
corded to have been seventy cubits in length.t We know
that sacred dragons were revered at Babylon, at Melita in
Egypt, in Phrygia, in Italy, in Epirus,<J in Thessaly,II in
Breotia, and in the grotto of Trophonius.1T
Finally, we may remark, that the progress of civilization
has expelled these immense reptiles from countries where
they formerly lived in peace. There are no longer any boas
in Italy. Solinus places them in Calabria, and describes
their habits with so much correctness, that we can not sup­
pose he meant to speak of monstrous adders. Pliny con­
firms this narration, by mentioning a boa in the body of
■which a child was found. It was killed in the Vatican, in
the reign of Claudius, only thirty years, at the utmost, be­
fore the period in which Pliny wrote.
**
These positive facts would prepare credulity to confound
with history every legend in which, for some other reason,
these monstrous serpents figured.
for his audacity.
* Allowing for exaggeration, it is probable that the Py­
thon referred to in Livy was of unusual size, and hence well calculated
to strike terror into the minds of those unaccustomed to the sight of
enormous serpents. It seized its victim with its teeth, but, like the boa,
destroyed it by pressure within the folds of its powerful body. The au­
thor of The Seasons describes this Python:
From his dark abode,
Which e’en Imagination fears to tread,
At noon, forth issuing, gathers up his train
In orbs immense.—Thomson.—Ed.
* Paulin de St Barth61emi, Voyages, ^c., tome i., p. 479.
t AElian, De Nat. Anim, passim, et lib. xvL, cap. xxxix.
i
lbid., lib. xv„ cap. xii.
Ibid., lib. xi., cap. xvii.; lib. xii., cap. xxxix.; lib. xi., cap. ccxvi.
Aristotle, De Mirabil. Auscult. If Suidas, verbo Trophonios.
** Plin., Hist. Nat., lib. viii., cap. xiv.
* Smith’a IHuttnUfontnfSouth America.
Digitized by C>ooQle
240 ILLUSTRATIONS.
§ II.
OTHER LEGENDS FOUNDED ON FIGURATIVE EXPRESSIONS TAKEN
IN A PHYSICAL SENSE.
Winged serpents, the true dragons, could never have ex­
isted ; and the supposed union of two natures so opposite
must have been originally merely hieroglyphic—an emblem.
But poetry, which lives in figures, did not hesitate to possess
itselfof the image as well as the expression. The reptiles
which tore to pieces the sons of Laocoon were called drag­
ons by Q. Calaber ;
* Virgil gives them the name of dragons
and serpents by turns.! The two terms seem to have been
synonymous in poeticallanguage; and the wings with which
dragons have been endowed are only the emblem of the
promptitude with which the serpent pounces upon its prey,
or, in order to seize it, raises itself to the tops of trees.
Here, as in many other circumstances, the figurative ex­
pressions have taken place of the reality in the beliefof the
vulgar, not less ignorant than eager after the marvelous.
* Q. Calaber, De Bello Trqjano, lib. xiii. A Greek poet, who lived in
the third century, and wrote a poem in fourteen books, as a continuation
of the Iliad.—Ed.
t “ Immensis orbibus, anguee” (vers. 204).
“Serpens amplexus uterque” (vers. 214).
“ Delubra ad summa dracones” (vers. 225).
Virgil, JEneid., lib. ii.
j Pouqueville, Voyage dans la Grece, tome iii., p. 562. 563.
The modem Greek gives the expressive name of winged
serpents to the locusts, which, carried on the wind in vast
swarms, devastate his harvests.! This metaphor is prob­
ably ancient, and may have originated many fables and
narrations respecting the existence of winged serpents.
But these explanations and those connected with physical
facts are vague, and sometimes purely local. They can not
be applied to a precise fact, which is found in every coun­
try and in every age, related in the same manner, and with
only slight variations in the principal circumstances.
$ III.
MONSTROUS SERPENTS MAY BE EMBLEMATIC OF RAVAGES PRO­
DUCED BY INUNDATIONS.
St. Romanus, in 720 or 628, delivered the town of Rouen
from a monstrous dragon. “ This miracle,” it is said in a
dissertation upon the miracle of St. Romaine and La Gar-
gouille, “ is only the emblem of another miracle of St. Roma­
nus, who made the Seine, which had overflowed its banks,
Digitized by LjOOQle
ILLUSTRATIONS. 241
and was about to inundate the town, return to its bed. The
very name given by the people to this fabulous serpent is
another proofofit: gargouille is derived from gurges," &.C.
*
In support ofhis opinion, the author quoted a strophe from
the hymn of Santeuil:
“Tangit exundans aqua civitatem;
Voce Romanus jubet efficaci;
Audiunt fiuctus, docilisque cedit
Unda jubenti.”
In Orleans, also, a town frequently exposed to the rava­
ges of the waters which bathe and fertilize its territories, a
ceremony is celebrated similar to that which perpetuates
the miracle ofSt. Romanus at Rouen. Indeed, a great num­
ber oftraditions might be quoted in support ofthis conjecture.
The Island of Batz, near St. Pol de Leon, is said to have
been desolated by a frightful dragon. St. Pol, who died in
594, by the virtue of his stole and staff precipitated the mon­
ster into the sea. Cambry,t who relates this tradition, tells
us that the only fountain existing in the Island of Batz is
alternately either exposed or covered by the tides of the sea.
He then relates that, “ near the Castle of Roche Maurice
and the ancient River of Dordoun, a dragon devoured men
and animals.”!
It seems but natural to suppose that these two narratives
are emblematical of the ravages committed by the sea and
the waters of the Dordoun.
St. Julian, first Bishop of Mans, in 59 destroyed a horrible
dragon at the village ofArtins, near Montoir.§ This dragon,
under the system discussed by us, should represent the in­
undations ofthe Loire, which flows in the vicinity. It might
be also imaged by a dragon of nine or ten fathoms long, over
which, in a cavem by the side of a faunlainW near Vendome,
* History of the Town of Rouen, by Servin, 1775, 2 vols. 12mo, vol. ii.,
p. 147. It is more probable that the fable of the destruction of the ser­
pent is founded on the fact of St. Romanus having destroyed the rem­
nant of idolatry, and leveled with the ground temples of Venus, Jupiter,
Apollo, and Mercury, which existed in his diocese. “ No traces of this
atory,” says Butler, speaking of the story of the serpent, “are found in
any life ot this saint, nor in any writings before the end of the fourteenth
century. The figure of a serpent, called Gargouille, seems here, as in
some other towns, originally to have been meant to represent symboli­
cally the devil overcome by Christ”—Lives of the Talkers, Martyrs, !fC^
October 22.—Ed.
t Cambry, Travels in the Department ofFinisterre, voL L, p. 147,148.
t Id. ibid., vol. i., p. 57.
§ Moreri, Historical Dictionary, art St Julien. M. Duchemin la Che-
naye gives the name of La Roche Turpin to the scene of this victory.—
Memoires de IAcademic Critique, tome iv., p. 311.
|| M. Duchemin la Chcnaye, ibid., pages 308 and following.
Digitized by C>ooQle
242 ILLUSTRATIONS.
the hermit St. Bic or Bicnheure, toward the end of the fourth
century, triumphed. The inundations of the Scarpe might
be represented by the dragon who terrified and expelled
from an island the holy bishop who had bequeathed his name
to the town of St. Amand ;
* those of the Moselle, by the
Graouilli, the monstrous serpent which St. Clement over­
came at Metz ;+ and those of Clain by the dragon of Poitiers,
which hid itself near this river, and whose death was a ben­
efit conferred by St. Radegonde, toward the middle of the
sixth century.!
* M. Bottin, Tradition* des Dragons volant dans le Nord de la France,
Melanges d'Archeotogie (8vo, Paris, 1831), p. 161-1G4.
t A. Lenoir, Du Dragon de Met:, tfc., Memoires de I'Academic Critique,
tonic ii., p. 1 and following.
t M. Jouyncau-des-Logcs. Memoiresde fAcadcmie Critique, tome v., p. 5Z
A RouviCre, Voyage du Tour de la France, 12mo, 1713, p. 401,402. Du-
laure, Description des prineipauz Liettz de la France, tome i., p. 16, art.
Tarascon, Millin, Voyage dans le Midi de la France, 4 vols. Rvo, tome
iii., p. 451-553. The figure ofthe Tarasque may lie found in the atlas of
the 'Travels, plate 63; it is not, however, very correct
|| M. Chaudruc, Memoires de rArailemic Critique, tome iv., p. 313.
Lives of the Saints for every Day of the Year, 2 vols. 4to, Paris, 1734,
tome ii., p. 84 : Life of St. Marcel, 3d of November. Gregor. Turon., De
Gloria Confess., cap. Ixxxix. It is thought St. Marcel occupied the Epis­
copal throne of Paris toward the end ol the fourth century.
** Du Gauge, Glossar, verbo Draco, 2 ... tome ii., p. 1615.
tt Description of the actual State of Pern, extracted from the Mercurio
Feruviano. Annals of Travel, by M. Malte Brun, vol. i., p. 92.
In the same manner may be explained by the inundations
of the Rhone the history of the monster of Tarascon, which,
in the first century, was bound with the garter of St. Martha,
who caused its death; and the representation of which,
called Tarasque, is still carried in procession in the town on
the morning of the Pentecost.J The overflowings of the Ga­
ronne would be emblemized by the dragon of Bordeaux, yield­
ing, in the eleventh century, to the virtue of the Virgin of
St. Martial; and the dragon of St. Bertrand de Comminge,
conquered by the Bishop of St. Bertrand in 1076.11
Thus, also, the dragon from which St. Marcel delivered
Paris,U and the winged dragon of the Abbey of Fleury,
** of­
fer images of the overflowing of the Seine and Loire.
Thus, also, at Lima, on the fete day of St. Francis of As­
sisi, if one observes figuring in the procession an ideal mon­
ster called Terascon,tt it will recall the fact that Lima, sit­
uated near the sea, is watered by a river which supplies
every house with water. Thus, M. Champollion explains
with probability the hieroglyphic of the two serpents, each
with the human head, seen in the Church of St. Laurence at
Grenoble, by the proverb “ Serpens et draco devorabunt ur-
Digitized by C>ooQle
ILLUSTRATIONS. 243
bem,” rendered by the vulgar tongue into these two vers­
es :
M Lo serpour et lo drncon
Metront Grenoble en Savon,”
alluding to the situation of the town at the mouth of the
Drac (Draco), in the Isere, represented by the serpent, whose
sinewy writhings are pretty well imitated by the course of
this river.
* The comparison between the windings of a
river and the writhings ofa serpent are, indeed, as frequently
found in common language, and in ordinary names, as in po­
etical metaphors. Near to Heleno Pole, a town in Bythinia,
flows the River Draco (Dragon); this name, says Procopi­
us,! was given to it from its numerous windings, which
obliged travelers to cross it twenty times together. It is
doubtless for a similar reason that a river, which rises in
Mount Vesuvius and waters the walls of Nueeria (Noeera),
received the name of Dragon.!
* Dissertation upon a Subterraneous Monument existing in Grenoble, in
4to, aimec xii. Enryrlapediral Magazine, ixth year, vot v., p. 442, 443.
t Procop., De sKdifie. Justin., lib. v., cap. ii.
t Id., Hist. Miscell., lib. i., cap. Iv.
6 Scheuchzcr, Itinera jut Hdretia Alpinas Regtones, tome iii., p.
377-337. Vide. p. 396 et p. 3S3, 3c 1, 3S9, 390.
This explanation is strengthened by a confession, the more
remarkable, because the author, with whom it originated,
had collected and tendered as positive facts all the popular
stories ofdragons and monstrous serpents which, at the com­
mencement of the eighteenth century, were broached in the
interior of Switzerland. Scheuchzer') allows that the name
of Drach (Draco) was frequently given to impetuous tor­
rents, which suddenly burst forth like avalanches.
The dragon, the multitude would then exclaim, has made
an irruption (Erupit Draco). The cavity in which the tor­
rent rose, or that in which the waters were absorbed, were
consequently naturally called the Dragon’s Hole, or the
Dragon's Marsh, names which we find in many places cele­
brated by some one or other of the legends which have oc­
cupied our attention. In spite of the probability which
many of these affinities present, two grave objections refute
the system they are destined to establish.
First. If it is as easy for a supernatural power to arrest
the inundations of a river or the sea as to put to death a
monstrous serpent, such a comparison can not be applied to
the limited strength of an ordinary man. Now, in these le­
gends we shall see figuring chevaliers, soldiers, banished
men, and obscure malefactors, whom no celestial grace could
Digitized by C>ooQle
244 ILLUSTRATIONS.
have called out to work miracles. And who can be per­
suaded that a single individual, whatever may be his zeal
or his power, would be able to turn back into their beds the
Loire and the Garonne, widely inundating the plains with
their waters 1
Secondly. The multitude of the legends does not allow
us to suppose that, in times and places so different, it would
have been agreed to represent by the same emblem events
which, although similar, yet were peculiar to each period.
An emblem always the same, supposes a fact, or rather an
allegory, received in all ages and in all places ; such as that
ofthe triumph obtained ofthe principle ofgood and light over
the principle of evil and darkness represented by the serpent.
§ IV.
THE LEGEND OF THE SERPENT HAS BEEN TRANSPORTED FROM
ASTRONOMICAL PICTURES INTO MYTHOLOGY AND HISTORY.
We shall not here retrace, in its details, the astronomical
picture of this triumph so frequently renewed. Let us only
observe that three accessory objects are grouped almost
always with the principal subject: namely, a virgin, a young
girl, or a woman; a precipice, a cavern, or a grotto; and the
sea, a river, a fountain, or a well
* We find one part of
this legend put into operation, if I may so express myself,
in the manner in which the sacred dragons of Epirus, Phry­
gia, and Lanuvium received their food. It was carried to
them in their cavern by a young girl, who was exposed to
terrible punishment ifshe was not a virgin.! A woman, also,
the magician, whom the unfortunate Dido expressed a de­
sire to consult, presented the nourishment to the sacred
dragon which guarded the Hesperides.t
* A. Lenoir, Du Dragon de Metz, tfc., M&noires de VAcadtonie Celtique,
tome ii., p. 5 et 6.
t Allian, De Nat. Animal., lib. xi„ cap. ii. et xvi. Propert., lib. iv., Eleg.
viii. | Virgil, JEneid, lib. iv., vere. 483-485.
§ Hygin, Poet. Aslronom., Serpens. •
The Greek mythology is rich in legends, the astronomical
origin of which is not dubious. Is it necessary to explain
why a serpent or a dragon figures so often in the celestial
planisphere 1 In the war of the gods against the giants, an
enormous serpent attacked Minerva. The virgin goddess
seized the monster and threw it toward the heavens, where
it became fixed among the stars.$ Ceres placed in the
heavens one of the dragons that drew her chariot. Triopas
having offended the same divinity, the goddess punished him*
*
*
§
Digitized by UooQle
ILLUSTRATIONS. 245
first by the torment of an insatiable hunger, and then put
him to death by a dragon, which from that time took a place
with her in the heavens. According to other mythologists,
Phorbas, the son of Triopas, merited this honor for having
delivered the Island of Rhodes from a monstrous serpent.
Some observe in the constellation of Ophiucus, Hercules
upon the borders of the River Sagaris, vanquishing the ser­
pent which Omphalus had commanded him to combat.
*
* Hycin, Poet. Astronom., Ophiucus. t Pausanias, Phocic., cap. v.
J /Elian, far. Hist., lib. iii.. cap. L De Nat. Animal., lib. xi., cap.
ii. Pintarch. De Oracul. Defectit. (j> Arist., De Mirabil. Ausrult.
|| foyaites de Villamont (1613). liv. iii., p. 5GI. Thevenot, Relation tfun
Voyage fait au Levant, <Sr., 4to. Paris, 1668, p. 442.
Memoirs and Observations made by a Traveler in England (La Haye,
1698, p. 214-232). This work is attributed to Max. Misfon.
Themis, the heavenly virgin, answered the petitions of
mortals at Delphi. Python, the monstrous dragon, approach­
ed, and the oracle was deserted ; nor did any one dare to
resort to it until Apollo (the sun) had pierced Python with
his irresistible arrows.t Let us observe that the tradition
in these narrations does not omit the divine nature of the
dragon. Apollo, after having destroyed the monster, was
obliged to submit himself to a religious aspiration ; and the
sacred serpents of the Epirus were supposed to have owed
their being to Python.t
Near the river in Colchis. Jason, assisted by Medea, who
was yet a virgin, triumphed over the dragon which guarded
the golden fleece. Hercules and Perseus delivered Hesione
and Andromeda, virgins who were exposed as prey to the
voracity of a sea monster. A woman learned in the arts of
enchantment saved the inhabitants of Tenos, by destroying
a dragon that threatened to depopulate their island.§
According to a legend, preserved by the Christian faith in
the figurative sense only, but adopted literally by painters,
and which has a host of believers, St. Michael felled to the
ground, and pinned down with his lance, a dragon which
was vomited forth from the infernal pit, and which was the
same that, according to Dupuis, in the Apocalypse, pursued
the heavenly virgin. Half a mile on the road to Baruth (the
ancient Berythe) is to be seen the cavern where dwelt the
dragon killed by St. George, at the moment when about to
devour the daughter of the king of the country.il Accord­
ing to another legend, it was on the borders of a lake, the
asylum of this monster, that St. George saved the king’s
daughter and twelve other virgins, whom an oracle had com­
manded to be given up to this horrible dragon.U
Digitized by CjOOQle
246 ILLUSTRATIONS.
Almost all mythologies contain, with some variations, the
same legend ; and, we may add, in how many of the Greek
myths may it not be traced! Hercules, conqueror of the
dragon of the Garden of Hesperides, a monster whose de­
feat was followed by the discovery of a fountain till then un­
known ; again, a dragon dwelt in a gloomy cavern, and
guarded the fountain of Mars until killed by Cadmus, who
was himself afterward transformed into a serpent; and it
was a dragon from which Diomedes, on his return from Troy,
delivered the Corcyreans.
* Cenchreus was implored by the
inhabitants of Salamis to be their king, as a reward for his
victory over a dragon that had devastated their territories.t
As this celebrated religious hero, St. George, is the patron saint of Eng­
land, it is proper that some account of him should be here given. He
was born in Cappadocia, of noble Christian parents. After the death of
his father he went into Palestine with his mother, who had a considera­
ble estate there, which fell to him. He became a soldier, and after having
served as a tribune, he was raised to the rank of a colonel, and afterward
to higher rank, by the Emperor Dioclesian, as a reward for his courage
and conduct. But, being equally strong in his faith, he threw up all his
well-merited honors when that emperor began his persecutions of Christ­
ianity ; an act, in conjunction with his reprobation of the emperor’s cru­
elties, which cost him his life. He was thrown into prison and cruelly
tortured, and on the following day he was beheaded.
St. George became the patron saint of military men; and, like all the
other saints of the Romish calendar, did many wondrous acts and per­
formed many miracles, both during his life and after his death: hence
churches were erected in honor of him in various parts of Europe. He
was constituted the patron saint of England by our first Norman kings;
and, under his name, Edward III. instituted the most noble order of
knighthood in Europe. The promulgation of the pretended apparition
of St. George to Richard I. in his Saracenic expedition had such a ben­
eficial effect on the spirits of his troops as insured them victory. He is
usually represented on horseback, slaying a dragon, an emblematical rep­
resentation of his Christian fortitude in overcoming the Devil, the arch­
dragon. See Butler's Lincs of the Fathers. Martyrs, fyc.—Ed.
* Heraclides, in Politiis.
t Nofil, Dictionnaire de la Fable, art. Cenchreus.
j A. Lenoir, Du Dragon de Metz, &fc., Memoir?* de VAcademic Critique,
tome ii., p. 11, 12.
§ The Thousand and One Nights, translation of Ed. Gauthier, 7 vols. 8vo,
Paris, 1822,1823, vol. v., p. 425, 426.
Upon a monument discovered in Thebes, Anubis is rep­
resented as St. Michael and St. George are in Christian paint­
ings, armed in a cuirass, and having in his hand a lance,
with which he pierces a monster that has the head and tail
of a serpent.^
In a succession of narrations, the marvelous portions of
which have been principally borrowed by their compilers from
the ancient mythology ofHindostan, we see some monstrous
figures: now in the form of enormous serpents then as
Digitized by CtOOqIc
ILLUSTRATIONS. 247
gigantic dragons, flapping their tails against their scaly
sides ;
* and having their voracity yearly satiated by young
virgins, but yielding to the valiant attacks of warriors aided
by supernatural powers, at the very moment when the king’s
daughter is about to become their victim.
* The Thousand and One Nights. tome vi, p. 303-305, et tome v., p. 423,
424. t Dictionnaire de la Fable, art Chcdcrles.
t Iteoue Enajdopcdique, tome xxxi., p. 850.
c N06I, Dictionnaire de la Fable, art. Cosmogonic Amiriraine.
|| Rochefort, HUloire /iaturellc et Morale dee isles Antilles (Rotterdam,
1658), p. 21.
Che'lerles, a hero revered among the Turks, we are told,
killed a monstrous dragon, and saved the life of a young
girl exposed to its fury. After having drunk of the waters
of a river which rendered him immortal, he traversed the
world upon a steed as immortal as himself.”t The com­
mencement of this recital recalls to mind the Hindoo myths
and fables of Hercules and Perseus. The termination may
be regarded as an emblem of the Sun, the immortal traveler,
who ceases not his revolutions around the earth.
Among the figures sculptured on a granite block, dis­
covered in the deserted town of Palenqui Viejo, was re­
marked a serpent, from the throat of which issued the head
of a woman.i One is tempted to connect this emblem to
the legends of monstrous dragons. It is, at least, difficult
not to imagine that the legend had passed into the New
World. The Caribbees believe that the Supreme Being
made his Son descend from heaven in order to kill a dragon,
which, by its ravages, desolated the nations of Guiana.^
The monster succumbed; and the Caribbees sprung from
the worms generated in the decomposition of its corpse ; and
on this account they regard all those nations with whom the
cruel monster had formerly waged cruel war as their ene­
mies. At first sight this is but the myth of Python; but
what are we to think of the strange origin that the Caribbees
attribute to themselves1 We can but suppose that they had
formerly received this tradition from a nation superior to
themselves in strength, who wished to humiliate and de­
grade them; and that they had preserved it from custom,
and to justify their national hatreds and thirst for conquest.
A no less singular belief is to be found among the same
people. The Caribbees of Dominica assert that a monster,
having its retreat in a precipice surrounded by rocks, bore
upon its head a stone as brilliant as a carbuncle, from which
issued so bright a light that the neighboring rocks were il­
lumined by it.II Similar legends have for a long time been
Digitized by Google
248 ILLUSTRATIONS.
received in countries with which it is supposed the Carib-
bees could not have had any communication.
At some period, which chronologists have had pretensions
enough to fix, St. Margaret overcame a dragon, and from
the head of the monster this virgin, afterward raised to a
heavenly abode, extracted a ruby, or carbuncle, an emblem
of the brilliant star of the northern crmrn (Margarita), placed
in the heavens near the head of the Serpent.
In the history of Dieudonne of Gozon, we find mention
also of a stone taken from the head of a dragon killed by this
hero at Rhodes, and preserved, it is said, in his family. It
was the size ofan olive, and displayed many brilliant colors.
*
* Dictionnaire de Moriri, art Gozon (Dieudonn6). Gozon died in 1353.
t Schcuchzer, Itincrar. per Helve*. Alp. Re#., tome iii., p. 381-383.
t Memoires de la Society des Antiquaires, tome vj., p. 217.
$ Plin., Hist. Nat., lib. xxxvii., cap. x. Isidor., Hispal. Origin., lib. xvi^
cap. xiii. •Solin., cap. xxxiii.
|| Stories of Cheikh cl Mohdy, translated from the Arabian by J. J. Mar­
cel, 1833. U Philostrat, De Tit. Apollon., lib. iii., cap. ii.
** Broi-erbs of Barthoveri, «$r., inserted in the work of Abraham Rotrer.
The. Theaterof Idolatry; or, the Door Opened, fyc.; a French translation,
1 vol 4to (1760), p. 328.
Two Helvetian traditions describe a serpent offering to a
man a precious stone, as a token of homage and gratitude.!
Faithful to these old superstitions, the popular language of
the Jura still designates, under the name of rtmivre, a winged
and immortal serpent, the eye of which is a diamond.!
Pliny, Isidorus, and Solinusi) speaks of the precious stone
which the dragon carries in its head. An Eastern story-teller,II
who describes a miraculous stone, the real carbuncle that
shines in darkness, states that it is only to be found in the
head of the dragon, the hideous inhabitant of the Island of
Serendib (Ceylon). Philostratus also assures us that in In­
dia a precious stone, concealed in the heads of dragons, was
endowed with a powerful brilliancy and wonderful magical
virtues.^
That error which, by transforming an astronomical alle­
gory into a physical fact, decorated the heads of serpents
with a brilliant stone, had its rise in a great antiquity. “ Al­
though the serpent has a ruby in its head, it is, nevertheless,
injurious,” says a Hindoo philosopher, who has collected
into his proverbs the precepts of the most ancient times.
**
This legend, arising from the figurative expressions of the
relative positions the constellations of Perseus, the Whale,
the Crown, and the Serpent occupy in the heavens, has been,
we have seen, first connected with the victory of the spring
sun over winter, and oflight over darkness. The carbuncle,
Digitized by Google
ILLUSTRATIONS. 249
or ruby, which there held its place, and with which Ovid
decorated the palace of the sun,
* was, in fact, consecrated
to that orb from its color of flaming red.f
« V.
THE SAME LEGEND CREPT INTO CHRISTIANITY, ESPECIALLY
AMONG THE PEOPLE OF THE WEST.
As long as oppressed Christianity strove in secret against
polytheism, its worship, no less austere than its code of
morals, only admitted in its ceremonies, still concealed by
the aid of mystery, simple rights unencumbered by material
representation. The researches and cruelties of persecu­
tors could only tear from the faithful their holy books and
sacred vases ; they had few or no images.i
But public worship could ill dispense with remarkable out­
ward and visible signs ; for, in the midst of a large assem­
bly, words could hardly be conveyed to the ears of all the
audience, but the images would speak to the eyes of all;
they could awaken the most natural, the most universal in­
clinations. The multitude, therefore, delight in the mag­
nificence of religious acts, and think that it can not multiply
too many images.
This would necessarily happen, even to Christianity, when
(on the ruins of polytheism) it publicly established its tem­
ples and worship. The progress was much more rapid, be­
cause the religion of Christ succeeded a religion rich in pomp
and emblems ; and it feared to repulse, by too rigid a sim­
plicity, men accustomed to see and to touch what they be­
lieved in and worshiped.
Hence, as it was difficult to destroy and utterly to pro­
scribe the former objects of veneration, the Christians often
preferred appropriating them to their own faith. More than
one temple was changed into a church; more than the name
of one god iwas honored as the name of a saint; and an
* Flammasque imitante pyropo.
Ovid, Metamorph., lib. ii., ver. 2.
t The Cardinal Dailly and Albertus Magnus, bishop of Ratisbon, said
CartautofLa Villate. distributed the planets among the different religions.
The sun fell to the lot of the Christian religion. It is for that reason we
have always held the sun in singular veneration; that the town of Rome
is called the solar town; and that the cardinals who reside there are hab­
ited in red, the color of the sun.—Critical Thoughts on Mathematics, 1
voL 12mo, Paris, 1752; with permission and approbation.
In India an idea universally prevails that a stone exists in the head of
serpents; and the snake charmers pretend to extract it from the head of
the cobra di capella.—Ed.
t Encyclop. Method. Tteologie, art. Images.
Digitized by Google
250 ILLUSTRATIONS.
immense number of images and legends passed without diffi­
culty into the new faith, and were preserved by the ancient
respect of the new believers.
The legend of a heavenly being overcoming a serpent, the
principle of evil, was conformable to the language, the spirit,
and the origin of Christianity. It was received, therefore,
and reproduced in the religious paintings and ceremonies of
the early Christians. St. Michael, the first ofthe archangels,
was presented to the eyes of the faithful, piercing the infer­
nal dragon, the enemy of the human race.
*
* Foreign Quarterly Review, vol xxxvi., p. 3Q1,
f Butler’t Live* ofFathert, <fc.
In the fifth century in France,! and rather later in the
West, were established the processions known by the name
of Rogations.X For three days the image of a dragon and
winged serpent were presented to the observation of the
faithful; and his defeat was depicted by the ignominious
manner in which he was borne about on the third day.$
The celebration of the Rogation varied according to the
dioceses, from the first days of Ascension week to the last
days of the week of Pentecost. It corresponds to the time
* This mode of representing the triumph of the faithful over the evil
principle was general over every Christian country in the Middle Ages.
The serpent, or dragon, wasusuallyplaced in the paintingor the sculpture^
under the feet of the saint; but the populace could not understand the
allegory; and as it was the interest of the monks to nourish their credu­
lity, a fable or legend was attached to these representations, detailing the
victory of the saint over a true dragon or a real serpent Thus, the
allegorical representation of the patron saint of England, St George,
destroying the dragon, is still extensively believed by the multitude as
the record of a real victory over a material dragon; and to prove how
eager the monks were to maintain the belief, “ me monks in Mount St
Michael, in France, did not hesitate to exhibit, as pious relics, the sword
and shield with which St Michael the archangel combated the dragon of
the Revelations.”*—Ed.
f St Mammert, bishop of Vienne, in Dauphiny, instituted the Rogations
in 468 or 474.—Encyclop. Mithod. Theologic, art Rogations.
f The fasts termed Rogations were established by St Mammertus on
the occasion ofan assumed miracle, saidto have been performed through
the influence of his prayers. A terrible fire broke out and raged in the
city of Vienne, in Dauphiny, where he was archbishop, in spite of every
efibrt to extinguish it; but suddenly went out in consequence of the
prayers of the saint: and the same result followed his supplications on
the occurrence of a second great fire, which alarmed the city more than
the first The worthy prelate then formed the design of instituting an
annual fast and supplication of three days to appease the Divine wrath,
by fasting, prayers, tears, and the confessions of sins.t This fast gradu­
ally extended to other churches; hence we find the Rogations kept in
many other parts besides Vienne; but why the procession of the dragon
was ingrafted upon those of the Rogations does not appear.—Ed.
§ GuilL Durant; Rationale Divinorum Qfficiorum, fol, 1479, folio 226
recto.
Digitized by UooQle
ILLUSTRATIONS. 251
in which, the first half ofthe spring being passed, the victory
of the sun over winter is fully achieved, even in our cold and
rainy climate. It is difficult not to perceive an intimate con­
nection between the legends of the allegorical dragon and
that period in which its appearance was each year renewed.
Other circumstances increase the strength of this argu­
ment. In the sixth century, St. Gregory the Great ordered
that St. Mark’s day, 25th of April, should be annually cele­
brated by a procession similar to that of the Rogation. The
origin of this ceremony was as follows: Rome was deso­
lated by an extraordinary inundation. The Tiber rose like
an immense sea to the upper windows of the temples. In­
numerable serpents, it is said, had emerged from the over­
flowing waters of the river, and finally an immense dragon,
*
a new Python, was bom of this new deluge.t Its breath
infected the air and engendered a pestilential disease,! by
which the inhabitants were cut off by thousands. An an­
nual procession perpetuated the remembrance ofthe scourge
and of its cessation, obtained by the prayers of the pope and
his flock. The date of the 25th of April, less distant than
that ofthe Rogations from the equinox, is suitable to a coun­
try in which the spring is always more forward than in Gaul.
Whether by chance or by calculation, those people who
transported to Lima under a southern hemisphere the Ta-
rasque, the dragon of a Northern nation, have fixed it on the
7th of October, the fete day of St. Francis of Assisi. This
period approaches still nearer to the equinox of the spring.
But in equatorial countries, as under the moderate climate
of Lima, the victory of the sun is not so long undetermined
as in our northern regions, where the first weeks of spring
seem but a prolongation of winter.
Pliny has spoken of a mysterious egg,$ to the possession
of which the Druids attributed great virtues, and which was
formed by the concurrence of all the serpents of a country.
The inhabitants of Sologne, the echo of the Draids after
two thousand years have passed, assert, without doubting
the antiquity of the myth they repeat, that all the serpents
of the country assemble to produce an enormous diamond,
* Guilt Durant, fol. 225 verso. Siffredi Presbiteri Mimensis. Epitome,
lib. i., De Miro Prodigio.
f “ Ut Noe Diluvium renovaium, credcretur."—Platina, De Vizis Mac.
pontific. in Pelag. II.
| “ Pectin inguinaria scu i-nflatura inguinumP These are the expres­
sions made use of by the author of the Rationale Coco citato); he adds,
that the Pope Pelagias IL, successor to St. Gregory the Great, suddenly
died of the same disease, with seventy other persons, while in the midst
of a procession. § Plin., Hist, Nat-, lib. xxix., cap. 3. .
Digitized by Google
252 ILLUSTRATIONS.
which, superior to the stone of Rhodes, reflects the liveliest
colors of the rainbow. The day assigned for their miracu­
lous production is the 13th of May,
* a day belonging to the
second half of the spring, like the days when the serpent of
the Rogations was paraded. The epoch of this apparition
furnishes us with a remark which is not devoid of interest.
Its fixedness alone proves contrary to what we have hitherto
advanced, that the dragon was not the emblem of inunda­
tions, of overflowings of rivers, which could not every where
have taken place on the same day. How then, it may be
asked, came such an opinion to be established 1 When the
original emblem was lost, the attention would naturally be
arrested by a circumstance occurring in all the legends which
reproduced it, namely, that the scene of action was always
upon the shore of the sea or banks of a river. The idea of
the cessation of the ravages of the water must have appear­
ed the more probable, from the procession of the dragon
being regularly celebrated at a period of the year when the
rivers, which had been swelled by the fall of snow, or the
equinoctial rains, returned to their usual course.
* LGgier (du Loiret), Traditions et Usages de la Sologne, Memoirc dt
TAcademic Critique, tome ii., p. 215, 216.
§ VI.
ALLEGORICAL EXPLANATIONS OF EMBLEMS IN WHICH THE FIG­
URE OF THE SERPENT OCCURRED.
Every church had its dragon. The emulation of exterior
piety had, in these representations, the effect of making them
excel in a desire to excite in the spectators sensations of
admiration, astonishment, and fright. The visible part of
the worship became soon the most important part of the re­
ligion to men who were solely attentive to that which struck
their senses; the dragon in the Rogation processions was
too remarkable not to attract the attention of the populace,
and to usurp a prominent place in their belief. Each dragon
had soon its peculiar legend, and these legends were mul­
tiplied without end. To those who would throw a doubt
upon the probability of this cause we shall answer by one
fact, that among the lives of the saints revered by the Christ­
ians of the East, who did not adopt the institution of the
Rogations, the victory achieved by a heavenly being over a
serpent is rarely to be found.
The word dragon, contracted to that of Drac, designated
a demon, a malevolent spirit, whom the credulous Provencal
Digitized by UooQle
ILLUSTRATIONS. 253
supposed to exist beneath the waters of the Rhone, and to
feed upon the flesh of men. To act the drac was a term sy­
nonymous with doing as much evil
* as the devil himself
could be supposed to desire. Persons bitten by serpents
were cured as soon as they approached the tomb of St. Pho­
cas, owing to the victory which this Christian hero, by under­
going martyrdom, achieved over the devil, the old serpent.f
When, in the eighth century, it was related that an enormous
serpent had been found in the tomb of Charles Martel,! was
any thing else meant but the insinuation, that the demon
had taken possession of this warrior, who, though he saved
France, and probably Europe, from the Mussulman yoke, had
had the misfortune to thwart the ambition of the heads of
the Church, and the cupidity of the monks 1
* Du Cange, Glossar., verbo Dracus. Millin, Travels in the Interior of
France, vot iii., p. 450, 451.
t Gregor. Turon., De Miracul., lib. i., cap. 99.
1 MezGrai, Abrege Chronologique de VHistoire de France, annie 741.
§ Guilt Durant, Rationale Dirinarum Officiorum, folio 226 recto.
|| Description of the Beauties of Genoa, 8vo. Genoa, 1781, p. 39-41. Mil­
lin, Travels in Savoy and Piedmont, vol. ii., p. 239.
T] Lives ofthe Saints for every Day in the Year, vol. ii., p. 84.
It seems, then, reasonable to believe, as the author of the
Rationale^ expressly teaches, that the serpent, or dragon,
carried in the processions of the Rogations was the emblem
of the infernal spirit, whose overthrow was supplicated from
heaven; and that this defeat was attributed to the saint
more particularly revered by the faithful in each diocese
and parish. This kind of explanation has been reproduced
under different forms by sensible Christians, who could not
believe, in a physical sense, recitals too often renewed ever
to have been true.
The demon is vice personified; victories achieved ovei
vice may then have been figured by the same emblem. At
Genoa, upon a small spot near the Church of St. Cyr, is to be
seen an ancient weZZ, which, it is stated, formerly concealed
a dragon, the breath of which was destructive to men and
flocks. St. Cyr exorcised the monster, and forced him to
come out of the well and to throw himself into the ^ea.ll
This miracle is still represented in pictures, and is allegoric­
ally interpreted by the erudite as the victory achieved by
this holy preacher over impiety and libertinism. The same
interpretation might be applied to the triumph of St. Marcel
over the serpent that ravaged Paris, since they say, “ This
serpent first appeared outside the town, near the tomb of
a woman of quality who had lived an irregular life.”1T*
*
*
§
Digitized by CtOOqIc
254 ILLUSTRATIONS.
M. Dulaure,
* nevertheless, is ofopinion that this and many
other legends were emblematical ofthe triumphofthe Christ­
ian faith over the Roman and Druidical rituals. Incredu­
lity is, in fact, the worst of all vices in the eyes of the heads
of any faith. The retreat of the dragon which was van­
quished by St. Juliant was near a temple of Jupiter; its fall
may have figured that of polytheism, when, at the voice of
the apostle of Mans, its worshipers overthrew the altars of
the dethroned god, and left his temple desolate. Upon the
site of Epidaurus is to be seen a cavern, which tradition has
sometimes designated as the retreat of Cadmus when met­
amorphosed into a serpent, but more frequently as the abode
of the serpent of Esculapius. When St. Jerome related that
at Epidaurus St. Hilary triumphed over a devastating serpent
concealed in that cavern, the learned seemed to have some
reason for supposing the recital to be emblematical of the
victory of the preacher of the Gospel over the worship of
Esculapius.J A similar allegory also explains the miracle
that rendered St. Donat, bishop of Corinth, the vanquisher
of a serpent so enormous that eight yoke of oxen could
scarcely drag along its corpse.$ The date of the miracle,
in the year 399, is also the period in which paganism fell ir­
revocably beneath the blow struck against it by the com­
mand of the two sons of Theodosius.
* Dulaure, Physical, Moral, and Civil History ofParis, 1st edit, p. 161,
162, and 185, 186.
t Mcmoires de VAcademic Critique, tome iv., p. 311.
j Appending Notizic Istorico-crUiche suite Antichita, ffC., de? Ragusa,
tome i., p. 30. Pouqueville, Voyage dans la Grece, tome i., p. 24, 25.
£ Sigeberti, Chronicon, anno 399.
|| Memoircs de I'Academic Critique, tome v., p. 377.
A monstrous dragon desolated the neighborhood of Theil,
near Roche aux Fees (Rock of the Fairies), in the depart­
ment of the Isle and Vilaine. St. Amel, the apostle of that
country, led it with his stole to the summit of a mountain,
and then commanded it to precipitate itself into the River
Seiche. M. Noual de la Houssaye is ofopinion that this mir­
acle is emblematical of the victory which this saint achieved
over the remains of the Druidical religion, the ceremonies
of which had, till then, been perpetuated on the Rock of the
Fairies. He explains in the same way the repetition of a
similar miracle in the legend of St. Efflam, and in that of
other saints.II His conjecture may be easily extended to
the works of a thaumaturgist, who, before a stone, most
probably druidical and still honored by superstitious rites,
overcame a dragon which had ravaged the territory of
Digitized by UooQle
ILLUSTRATIONS. 255
Neuilly Saint Front skirting Chateau Thierry.
* On a leaden
medal, struck at Amiens in 1552 (doubtless from some more
ancient type), St. Martin is represented as piercing with a
lance the body of a dragon which he tramples under foot.
This was intended to designate the victories of the saint
over the pagan divinities.!
Constantine, the overthrower of paganism, loved to have
himself painted armed with a cross, and striking with his
lance a formidable dragon.! Thirty years ago, in a town of
Normandy, might be seen an old picture which served as a
sign to a hotel; the costume and figure were those of Louis
XIV., the new St. Michael leveling to the earth the infernal
dragon. It was, I presume, as a commemoration of the rev­
ocation of the Edict of Nantes.
Heresy, indeed, not less than false religion, is reputed to
be the work of the spirit of darkness.^ The bronze dragon,
therefore, which, until 1728, the monks of St. Loup, at
Troyes, carried in the procession of Rogation,II passed for
the emblem of the victory of St. Loup over the Pelagian
heresy.
$ VII.
MULTIPLICITY OF FACTS OF THIS NATURE ADOPTED AS BEAL
FACTS.
Allegories are beyond the comprehension of the ignorant
multitude, who are accustomed to believe whatever they are
told. The serpent paraded on Rogation day was generally
regarded as the representation of a real serpent, to the ex­
istence of which they assigned a certain date. In vain was
the meaning of the allegory revealed to the superstitious ;
in vain they were shown, for instance, a picture of St. Veran
loading the evil spirit with chains ; they persisted in believ­
ing, and in relating that the territory of Arles was formerly
delivered by St. Veran from the ravages of a monstrous ser­
pent ; and a picture perpetuates the remembrance of this
victory,V which, according to the legend, was obtained at
the entrance of a grotto near a fountain.
* Memoires de la Sor.HU des Antiquaircs de France, tome i., p. 426, 427.
f Memoires de VAcademie du Departement de la Somme, tome l, p, 699.
t Euseb. Pamph., De Vitd Constantini, lib. iii., cap. iii.
§ The Emperor Sigismond instituted the order of the Vanquished
Dragon, in celebration of the anathema denounced by the Council of
Constance against the doctrines of John Huss and Jerome of Prague.
The drauon signified heresy overcome.
|| Grosley, Ephemerides, 3e partie, chap, xci., tome ii., p. 222, 225.
I saw these pictures in 1613, in Majore Laa Church, in Arles.
Digitized by CjOOQle
256 ILLUSTRATIONS.
Every parish had its dragon; and still, in all the parishes
in Spain, the image of the serpent (Taras) is carried in pro­
cession on Corpus Christi day. The history of the monster
varies still more than its forms, as imagination and credulity
attributed to it supernatural deeds. From dread they passed
to respect. The dragon of Poitiers
* was piously surnamed
the good St. Vermine; they prayed to it, and they were
eager to obtain chaplets touched by it. It is difficult to say
whether, as a monument, it remained what it had formerly
been, an idol, or that it became so by degrees among a su­
perstitious people.
* Notes of the Society ofthe Antiquaries of France, vol L, p. 464. Notes
of the Celtic Academy, vol. v., p. 54, 55.
t Bottin, Traditions des Dragons volants, fyc., p. 157, nnd 160, 161.
I Ch. Opoix, Histoire et Description des Provins, p. 435, 436.
§ J. J. Bodin, Rccherckes Historiques sur Saumur ct le Haut-Anjou, tome
i., p. 117-122. || Greg. Turon., De Glorid Confessor., cap. IxxxviL
More commonly the emblem was surrounded by signs of
hatred and horror. Its legendary historyjustified these sen­
timents. It had been the curse of the country in which its
image was paraded. Its venom had poisoned the springs,
and its breath infected the air with contagious diseases. It
devoured the flocks, killed men, and chose young girls, vir­
gins consecrated to the Lord, for its victims, while children
disappeared ingulfed in the abyss of its terrible jaws. The
Bailla, a figure of a dragon that was paraded at Rheims
every Easter day, had probably this origin. The gilded
dragon that figured in the processions of the Rogation, in
the parish of St. James of Douai, was the emblem of the de­
mon that had devoured the corn in the ear, and destroyed
the harvest to punish the cultivators of it for having refused
to pay the tithes.t
At Provence, until 1761, in the parishes of Notre Dame
and St. Quiriace, there was carried in the former, in the pro­
cessions of the Rogation, a winged dragon, and in the latter
a monster termed a lizard, two animals which had formerly
desolated the town and its environs.t St. Florence went,
we are told, by the command of God, to establish himself in
a grotto, or cavern, situated on the left bank ofthe Loire, and
to expel from it serpents with which it was filled. Soon
afterward he delivered the inhabitants of Mur, now Saumur,
from an enormous serpent which devoured men and animals,
and hid itself in a wood upon the banks of the Vienne.$
At Tonnerre, the holy Abbot Johan overcame a basilisk
which infected the waters of a fountain.il The Vivre of
Larre, to which a Burgundian proverb likened any woman*
*
*
§
Digitized by UooQle
ILLUSTRATIONS. 257
accused of beshrewing,
* was a serpent hidden near a fount­
ain in the vicinity of a priory of the order of St. Benoit, and
long an object of public terror. At Aix, in Provence, the
procession of the Rogations deposits upon a rock, called the
Rock of the Dragon, and near a chapel dedicated to St. An­
drew, the figure of a dragon, killed by the intercession of
this holy apostle.t No less the source of succor than St.
Andrew and St. George, St. Victor at Marseilles overcame
a monstrous reptile.f St. Theodore trampled a serpent
under foot and St- Second, patron of Asti, is represented
on horseback piercing a dragon with his lance.ll We might
quote many other similar legends without pretending to ex­
haust the subject. Knowing the common origin of all, and
the causes which, since the fifth century, multiplied them
in the East, we are far from being astonished at their num­
ber ; on the contrary, we are surprised that more do not ex­
ist.
* La Monnoye, Nod Borguignon, 12mo, 1729, p. 399, 400. Vivre, voui~
vre, or guivre, viper, serpent The word guivre has still this sense in
the heraldic vocabulary.
t Fauris Saint Vincent, M&moire sur VAncienne Cite d’Aix. Magasin
Encyclopedique, year 1812, vol. vi., p. 287.
t In die Abbey ofSt Victor at Marseilles.
§ Dorbessan, Essay upon Sacred Serpents, Historical and Critical Mis~
cellanies, vol. ii., p. 138.
|| Millin, Travels in Savoy and Piedmont, vol. i., p. 121.
Grosley, Travels in Holland. Unpublished Works of Grosley, 3 yols
8vo, Paris, 1815, vol. iii., p. 336.
$ VIII.
VARIATIONS IN THE CIRCUMSTANCES AND DATES OF THE NAR­
RATIONS ; NEW VESTIGES OF THE ASTRONOMICAL LEGEND.
The custom of bearing the image of the serpent in the
ceremonies of the Rogations ceased very gradually; and it
may be said, this emblem of the Prince of Darkness yielded
but slowly to the advancement ofthe light oftruth. Several
churches in France did not abandon the use of it until the
eighteenth century; in 1771, Grosley found it kept up in full
force in all the Catholic churches of the Low Countries.^
During so long a lapse of time the narrations must necessa­
rily have varied, and, consequently, the explanations ofthem.
To overcome the Gargouille, the dragon of Rouen, St.
Romans caused himself to be accompanied by a criminal
condemned to death, whose pardon was obtained by the mir­
acle of the saint.
The clergy willingly gave credit to these kinds of tales.
They augmented their power by obtaining for the heads of*
*
*
§
Digitized by Google
258 ILLUSTRATIONS.
their order the right of pardoning, or, at least, as at Rouen,
that of giving liberty to prisoners. It was regarded as not
granting too much to the memory of a miracle, of which, by
the will of God, a condemned criminal became the instru­
ment.
Still more willingly did the vulgar receive this variation
of the universal legend; according to them, no man could
have resolved to undertake so perilous a combat, unless with
the fear of some infamous and cruel death before him. In
this manner, a criminal condemned to death robbed St. Rad-
egonde of the honor of having vanquished the Grand'gueule,
the terrible dragon of Poitiers, which, issuing every day
from its cavern on the banks of the River Clam, devoured
the virgins ofthe Lord, the nuns ofthe Convent of St. Croix.
*
Another doomed man was said to have delivered the parish
of Villiers, near Venddme, from the ravages of a serpent.!
A third killed a dragon, or a crocodile, which, hidden be­
neath the waters of the Rhone, was the scourge of the sail­
ors and the inhabitants of the country.^ A deserted soldier,
in order to obtain his pardon, fought with a dragon that
spread terror into the environs of Niort.§ He triumphed
but lost his life in the struggle.
* Memoires de I'Academic Celtique, tome v., p. 52,53,55. Memoires de la
Sociit^ des Antiquaires de France, tome L, p. 464, 465.
t Memoires de VAcademic Celtique, tome iv., p. 311.
t Id. ibid., tome v., p. 111. § Id. ibid., p. 58, 60,132,134.
|| Id. ibid., p. 59, and 134,135.
if Journal of Verdun, June, 1751, p, 430.
In discussing the history of this pretended soldier,II M
Eloi-Johanneau remarks how suspicious it is rendered by
one of the names given to him signifying the vanquisher of
a beast or a monster, and particularly by its date, 1589 or 1692,
a date much too recent for history not to have recorded the
fact. The date assigned by D. Calmet to the appearance of
the serpent of Luneville is still more modem. He places it
a century from the time in which he wrote.H Of all the va­
riations which popular traditions are subject to in the course
of time, the most common are those which relate to date.
For such stories there exist no archives; and it is in the
nature of man to be forever endeavoring to appropriate to
himself recollections bequeathed to him by the past. Too
long an interval between them and the time present wearies
his imagination, unable to fill up the gap; he therefore en­
deavors to narrow it in proportion as the lapse of time may
demand. Thus, the dragon of Niort has been successively
placed in 1589 and in 1692. That of the Grand’gueule of
Digitized by UooQle
ILLUSTRATIONS. 259
Poitiers, when attributed to a condemned criminal, was
placed at so great a distance from the period in which St.
Radegonde lived, that in 1280 the apparition of the flying
dragon was also attributed to that town.
* Although St.
Jerome has described the combat of St. Hilary against the
serpent of Epidaurus, the caverns and remains ofwhich are
still shown to travelers, its defeat has been attributed to
himself,t The tradition which attributes the destruction
of the Tarasque to St. Martha is modem compared to that
which gave the honor to sixteen brave men, eight of whom
perished victims to their courage; the others founded the
towns of Beaucaire and Tarascon.t
* Mbnoires de VAcad&nie Celtique, tome v., p. 61, 62.
t Pouqueville, Voyage dans la Greet, tome i., p. 24, 25.
J Memoires de la Society des Antiquaires de France, tome L, p. 423. The
foundation of Tarascon (or, more properly, the establishmentof the Mar­
seillaise in this town) appears previous to the war of Cesar against Pom­
pey. § Pausanias, Boeriica, cap. xxvi.
We might instance several other dates that time has also
disarranged and modernized. It is, nevertheless, for a dif­
ferent cause that the death of the heroes of Tarascon and
the soldier of Niort deserve to be remembered. In those
myths which describe the struggle of the principle of light
over the principle of darkness, the former frequently paid
for its victory with its life. It is thus related of Osiris, of
Bacchus, of Atys, and of Adonis. In the Scandinavian my­
thology, likewise, at that terrible day when the world is to
be destroyed and renewed, the god Thor, after having ex­
terminated the great serpent, engendered by the principle of
evil, is to perish himself, stifled by the venomous breath
emitted by the monster. We are not astonished at finding
another vestige of the solar legend, or in seeing several van­
quishers of enormous serpents falling in the midst of their
triumphs, or unable to survive them.
Ancient Greece offers an example of such generous de­
votion. The town ofThespia, by the command ofa miracle,
offered every year a youth to a homicidal dragon. Cleos-
trates was destined by fate for this horrible sacrifice. His
friend, Menestrates, took his place ; and clothed in a cuirass,
each scale of which bore a hook with the point turned upper­
most, he delivered himself to the monster, whose death he
caused, although he himself perished.$
Toward the end of the fifteenth century, or, according to
a more ancient tradition, in 1273 (for here the date is varied
that it may be brought nearer to our times), the mountains
of Neufchatel were ravaged by a serpent, the recollection of
Digitized by Google
260 ILLUSTRATIONS.
which is still maintained by the names of several places in
the environs of the village of Sully.
* Raymond of Sully
fought with the monster, killed it, and died two days after­
ward.
Such was also the fate of Belzunce, who delivered Ba­
yonne from a dragon with several heads ; he perished, suf­
focated by the flames and smoke vomited by the monster,t
Patriotism celebrates with enthusiasm the name ofArnold
Strouthan of Winkelried, who,^it the battle of Sampach in
1386, devoted himselffor the safety ofhis countrymen. The
name of one of his ancestors has a less authentic, but not less
popular title to immortality. Upon the banks of the River
Meleh, near Alpenach, in the canton of Underwald, there
appeared in 1250 a dragon, the cave of which is still shown.
Struth de Winkelried, condemned to banishment for having
fought a duel, determined to regain the right of re-entering
his country by delivering it from this scourge ; he succeeded,
but died of his wounds the day after his victory,t Peter-
mann Eterlin fwhb in truth wrote two hundred and fifty
years later$) has recorded this fact in his chronicles. The
hand of the artist has sketched it upon the walls of a chapel
near the scene of the encounter; the place has preserved
the name of the Marsh of the Dragon (Drakenried ;) and the
cavern that ofthe Dragon’s Hole (Drakenlok). These com­
memorative names, and those of the same kind existing
near Sulpy, indicate, perhaps, like that of the Jioch of the
Dragon at Aix, the places where the procession ofRogations
stopped, and where the image of the allegorical dragon was
momentarily deposited.il Perhaps they may also have re­
lated, as we have already suspected, to the course of some
devastating torrent.
$ IX.
THIS LEGEND HAS BEEN APPLIED TO CELEBRATED PERSONAGES,
AND HISTORY HAS BEEN ALTERED THAT IT MIGHT SEEM TO
RELATE THE EVENTS.
Eterlin, the biographer of Struth of Winkelried, has trans­
* Roche a la Vuivra; Combe d la Vuivra; Fontaine a la Vuivra (virra,
vivre, guivre, serpent). Description des Montagnes de Neufchdtel, Neufchsl-
tel, 1776, 12mo, p. 34-37. t Mercure de France, March 29th, 1817, p. 585.
J Le Conservateur Suisse, 7 vols. 12mo. Lausanne, 1813-1815, tome vu
p. 440, 441. Mayer, Travels in Switzerland, vol. i., p. 251, seems to attrib­
ute this adventure to Arnold of Winkelried, and places the dragon’s cav­
ern near Stanz. § W. Coxe, Letters on Switzerland, vol. i., p. 160.
|| The mountain nearest to Cologne is called Rocks of the Dragons.—
Memoires de la Soctete des Antiquaires de France, tome ii., p. 139,140
Digitized by UooQle
ILLUSTRATIONS. 261
ferred to William Tell the adventure of the apple,
* which
Saxo Grammaticus, who wrote more than a century before
the birth of Tell, had already related of a Danish archer
named Toko;+ an adventure borrowed, with precisely the
same circumstances, from a still more ancient tradition of
Egil, father of the clever smith Wailland, and himselfan ex­
pert archer i Eterlin seems to have taken pains to impress
with an historical character the religious myths and fables
imported from other countries into his own. He wrote down
all popular beliefs ; and nothing is more usual with the vul­
gar than to apply the histories and fables composing their
documents to personages well known to them. Winkelried
and Tell are to the Swiss peasants what Alexander was,
and still is, in the East. To the name of the King of Mac­
edonia the Asiatics attached a thousand recollections, some
of them anterior to his existence, and evidently borrowing
from mythology. The traditions of a devastating dragon,
over which Alexander triumphed, was in the twelfth cen­
tury still preserved in an island of Western Africa.^ The
Paladine Roland enjoyed the same honor in the West; and
this is still attested by the names of several places.|| Ari­
osto, when singing of Roland, the vanquisher of the Orca,
a sea monster about to devour a young girl.V probably did
no more than copy and embellish a tradition of preceding
ages, as in a thousand other passages of his poem.
* W. Coxe, Letters on Switzerland, vol i„ p. 160. See a writing, entitled
William Tell, a Danish Fable, by Uriel Freudenbcrger, a work published
at Berne in 1760, by Haller, Jun., 1 vol. 8vo. Uriel Freudenbergcr, pastor
of Glarisse, Canton of Berne, died in 1768.
t Saxo Gramm., Hist. Danic., lib. x., folio, Francofurti, 1576, p. 166-168.
Saxo died in 1204. Harold, who plays in history the same part as Gesler,
fell licneath the blows of Toko in 981. The fable of the apple being much
more ancient, it was renewed by the public hatred under the name of
Harold, as it has since been reproduced in Switzerland under the odious
name of Gesler.
t Memoires de la Societe des Antiquaircs de France, tome v., p. 229.
6 L’ile de Nostachiin, Geographic d’Edrisi, tome i., p. 198-200.
ft La BaumeRoland, nearMarseilles; la BrecheRoland, in the Pyrenees;
il C.... d’Orlando, three miles ifom Rimini, &c.
f Orlando Farioso, canto xi.
An individual whose existence and fame are in no respect
fabulous has, nevertheless, become, like Roland, the hero of
a fable which renders him a rival of Hercules and Perseus.
The importance which the remembrance of him had acquired
in a country which was so long his abode has doubtlessly
gained this honor for him. Petrarch was following Laura
in the chase ; they arrived near a cavern where a dragon,
the terror of the country, was concealed. Less ravenous
Digitized by Google
262 ILLUSTRATIONS.
than amorous, the dragon pursued Laura. Petrarch flew to
the assistance of his mistress, fought with, and stabbed the
monster. The sovereign pontiff, however, would not allow
the picture of the triumph of love to be placed in any sacred
building. Simon of Sienna, the friend of the poet, evaded
this prohibition by painting this adventure under the portal
of the Church of Notre Dame du Don, at Avignon. Laura
is depicted in the attitude of a suppliant virgin, and Pe­
trarch in the costume of St. George, armed with a poniard
instead of a lance. Time, though it has lowered the esti­
mation in which this work was held, has not weakened the
tradition which it perpetuates, and which has been repeated
to me as a real historical fact.
*
* In 1813. I observed that in recitals concerning Laura at Avignon or
at Vaucluse, she is always respectfully called Madame Laura.
t Saxo Grammat., Hist. Dan., lib. ix., p. 153. Olaus Magnus, Hist. Sept.
Gentium Brev., lib. v., cap. 17.
t Quoted in the work of Biorner, entitled Kcempedater (Stockholm,
1737), and by Graberg of Hemsbe, Saggio Istorico Sugli Caldi, 8vo, Pisa,
1811, p. 217.
In the examination of traditions, sufficient attention has
not always been paid to that inclination which induces the
ignorant man to find in every thing the myths occupying
the first place in his belief. To arrive at such a result, he
perverts his recollections, either by attributing to some in­
dividual events that have never happened to him, or by in­
troducing into history the incredible parts of a fable. The
story in which Petrarch figures is an example of the first
kind of alteration; we shall find one of the second kind
without diverging from our subject.
A Swedish princef had nurtured up near his daughter,
named Thora, two serpents to be the guardians of her vir­
ginity. Grown to an immense size, these monsters spread
terror and death around them, chiefly by their pestilential
breath. The king, in despair, promised the hand of his
daughter to the hero who should kill the serpents. Regner
Lodbrog, a prince, a scald, and a warrior, achieved this per­
ilous adventure, and became the husband of the beautiful
Thora. That is the fable; but, according to the Ragnara
Lodbrog’s Saga,t the history is as follows. It was not to
two serpents, but to one of his vassals, the possessor of a
strong castle, that the king had confided the charge of his
daughter; the guardian becoming enamored of the princess,
refused to restore her; and the king, after vain attempts to
compel him, promised that Thora should espouse her liber­
ator. Regner Lodbrog was this happy individual.
Digitized by CtOOqIc
ILLUSTRATIONS. 263
In an incursion upon the coasts of Northumberland, how­
ever, Regner was conquered, made prisoner, and thrown into
a subterranean dungeon filled with serpents: their bites
proved fatal. This is said to have occurred about the year
866. The story is related by every historian ;
* perpetuated,
also, in the Dirgewhich has been attributed to Regner himself.
I, nevertheless, suspect that, in the nature of his punishment,
an attempt was made to connect it with the legend of which
this hero was already the object. The same spirit which
had altered the history of his hymeneals, so as to recall or
emblemize the struggle in which the principle of good tri­
umphed over the principle of evil, intended, perhaps, that
this tragical end should also recall the death suffered by the
principle of good in the allegorical combats. The name of
the vanquisher, Regna Hella, favors this supposition; the
Scandinavians can discern in it the name of Hela, goddess
of Death, like the great serpent, the offspring of the principle
of evil. What sanctions my conjecture, is the great im­
portance accorded in Scandinavian mythology to the great
serpent; it is never described as perishing, except it draws
after it, into annihilation, the god with whom it fought. In
this manner, serpents and dragons reappear more than once
in the Scandinavian annals. I find that, both before and
after Regner, the general myth is interwoven, in two different
places, into the individual history. Frotho I., ninth king of
Denmark.t requiring money to pay his soldiers, attacked, in
a desert isle, a dragon, the guardian of a treasure, and
killed it at the very entrance of its cavern. Harold,t exiled
from Norway, took refuge in Byzance. Having been guilty
of homicide, he was exposed to the fury of a monstrous
dragon. More fortunate than Regner, he overcame it, and
returned to occupy the throne of Norway, and to annoy the
nephew of Canute the Great, who was then seated upon the
throne of Denmark.
* Saxo Grammat., Hist. Dan., lib. ix., p. 159. Olaus Magnus, loc. cit.
Ragnara Lodbrog’s Saga.
f 761 years before Christ. Saxo Grammat., Hist. Dan., lib. ii., p. 18, 19.
J In the 11 th century. Saxo Grammat, Hist. Dan., lib. ii., p. 185,186.
I translate the word antrum into cacern. The ditch in which Regner
Lodbrog perished seems to me to correspond with the caverns of almost
all the legends quoted.
Digitized by C.ooqle
264 ILLUSTRATIONS.
$X.
PHYSICAL OBJECTS AND MONUMENTS, IN WHICH THE VULGAR
FIND AGAIN THE PICTURE OP THE DESTRUCTION OF A MON­
STROUS SERPENT.
That which daily strikes the senses has an influence upon
the beliefof uneducated men, at least as much as the recol­
lections which are engraved on the memory; physical ob­
jects, paintings, and sculpture, like history, aid the imagi­
nation to discover every where legends that favor credulity.
In the Abbey of St. Victor, at Marseilles, in the Hospital
of Lyons,
* and in a church at Ragusa, the skin of a croco­
dile is shown to travelers. It is pointed out as the skin of
a monster, the hero of legends, belonging to these different
places ; and, nevertheless, at Ragusa, for example, it is not
unknown that it is a skin which was brought from Egypt by
Ragusan sailors,t These kind of relics, intended for keep­
ing up and confirming faith, when they do not originate it,
have never appeared misplaced in our temples, into which,
probably, they were first introduced in the quality of votive
otlerings. This was the opinion passed by Millint upon the
skin of a cayman,$ suspended from the roof of a church at
Cimiers, in the province of Nice. It did not appear that any
history was attached to it; whether it was from the lapse
of time the legend has fallen into oblivion, or that the ex voto
was too recent to presume to apply any legend to it.
Another monument of this kind, the existence of which,
however, is less certain, is the head of the dragon which
was so miraculously conquered by Dieudonne of Gozon. It
was preserved at Rhodes. The Turks, when they became
masters of Rhodes, respected it. The traveler Thevenot
saw it toward the middle of the 17th century, and the de­
scription which he gives of it would lead it to be regarded
as belonging rather to a hippopotamus than to a serpent.il
Will it be considered too bold to think that this head, like
the cayman of Cimiers, like the crocodiles of Ragusa, of
Lyons, and of Marseilles, was first exposed by public piety
* Mrmoircs de VAcademic Critique, vol. v., p. 111.
t Pouqueville, Voyage dans la Grice, tome i., p. 24, 25. .
t Millin, Voyage cn Sarnie, en Piemont, d Kicen, d Genes, tome ii.. p. 124.
§ The cayman. Crocodilus Palpebrisus (Cuvier), is a native of Surinam
and (tuittniL It does not attain to as larire a size as the other species of
crocodiles : nor will it attack a man either on hind or in the water, as
long as he keeps his legs and arms in motion. This sfiecies of crocodile
has never been found in the old continent; hence it is not to be seen in
any of the ancient temples.—Ed.
II Tb6venot, Relation d'un Voyagefait au Levant, p. 223.
Digitized by C>ooQle
ILLUSTRATIONS. 265
or by interest; and that, constantly attracting the observa­
tions of the multitude, it furnished an occasion for applying,
at a later period, the legend of the hero who conquered the
dragon to a celebrated cavalier, a grand-master of the order ?
At Wasmes, near Mons, on Pentecost Tuesday, and on
Trinity day, the head of a crocodile is carried in procession.
In the eyes of a credulous population, it represents the head
of the dragon which, in the 12th century, ravaged the en­
virons ofWasmes, and which, when about to devour a young
girl in his cavern, fell underthe blows of Gilles, lord of Chin.
*
A tradition, carefully preserved in the country, attributes to
the father of Chin, who died in 1137, the most striking traits
of an exploit, the honor of which, two centuries later, was
given to Dieudonne of Gozon, namely, the difficulty of ob­
taining permission to combat the dragon, the care with which
a figure resembling it was manufactured a long time pre­
viously, for the purpose of training the horses and the dogs
gradually to attack it fearlessly, and the precaution of being
followed by devoted servants to the place of combat. Here
is another example of the facility with which they applied to
persons known at one period and in one country the myths
borrowed from another country, and from an anterior epoch.
* Recherches Historiques sur Gilles, Seigneur de Chin, et le Dragon, Mons,
1825. Revue Encyclopedique, vol. xxviii., p. 192,193. M. Bottin, Traditions
des Dragons Volants, fyc., p. 165, 173.
t Ed. Brown, Narrative of many Voyages,
f Bottin, Traditions, tfc., p. 156,157. Journal de Verdun, Juia, 1751, p.
454.
A direct interest is not always requisite for changing an
astronomical myth into local history. There is at Clagen-
furt, placed upon a fountain, an antique group, found at Saal
or Zolfeld, the ancient Colonia Solvensis, representing a
dragon of a prodigious size, and a Hercules armed with a
club. The people believe it to be a poor peasant who had
formerly delivered the country from the ravages of a dragon,
the image of which they conceive is properly placed by the
side of his own.t
Upon a cross in the cemetery of Dommarie, a commune
of the department of the Meurthe (of which the forest of
Thorey is a dependence), is sculptured the figure ofawinged
dragon. Calmet, deceived by this emblem, has related that a
winged dragon was formerly the terror of this country,t
The inhabitants of Trebizonde relate, that in 1204 Alexis
Comnenes overthrew with his own hands a monstrous drag­
on. In memory of this exploit, he caused a fountain, which
he called the Fountain of the Dragon, to be constructed in the
Digitized by Google
266 ILLUSTBATIONS.
town. This monument remains; the mouth of the pipe,
whence the water issues, representing the head of the fab­
ulous animal.
* This figure of the spout has given to the
fountain the name which it bears, and, consequently, is the
origin of the legend.
* Prottiers, Ilineralre de Tiflis a Constantinople (Brussela, 1829), p. 206.
t Nemo Ausus. M.l’Abbfi Sunil, Memoires sur la Maison carree. No­
tices sur les traraux de tAcademic du Gard of 1812-1822, 1st part, p. 329,
330. Eusela: Salverte, Essaisur les Norns dHommes, de Peopleset de Lieux,
tome ii., p. 279, 280,
! See the Moniteur Universel ofMonday, July 2,1812.
Augustus Caesar, wishing to immortalize the remembrance
of his conquest, and the submission of Egypt, gave as a type
for the medals ofa colony which he had just founded in Gaul,
a crocodile tied to apalm-tree. The town in which the colony
settled had for several centuries recognized Nemausus,
whose name it bore, and who was its founder, as its local
divinity ; and this name could not fail to figure upon its med­
als. Very soon, and notwithstanding that the palm-tree
never grew on the soil of Nismes (the ancient Nemausus),
the Crocodile became one ofthose monsters in all the different
legends, which stated that the imitators of Hercules, holy
men, or those worthy of being regarded as such, had over­
come. This terrible animal poisoned the waters of a fount­
ain, and desolated the country. The hero had triumphed
over it; and he thus received, and transmitted to the town
which he founded near the fountain, the name of Nemausus,
which still recalls that he alone had performed what none had
dared ta attempt, t
Here, at least, a real representation, although badly inter­
preted, had attracted observation and excused the error.
According to a received tradition at Pisa, Nino Orlandi, in
1109, succeeded in confining an enormous and dangerous
serpent in an iron cage, and paraded it thus into the middle
of the town. How can we doubt of the truth of the fact ?
A bas-relievo, placed in the Campo Santo, represented it; an
inscription attested it. Observant eyes have, in our time,
examined these two monuments; the inscription was placed
in 1777 ; the bas-relief, a fragment in Paros marble, does not
portray a single object that can relate to Orlandi’s pretended
victory.!
Digitized by Google
ILLUSTRATIONS. 267
$ XI.
COATS OF ARMS AND MILITARY ENSIGNS GIVE PLACE TO NEW
APPLICATIONS OF THE ASTRONOMICAL LEGEND.
Greedy ofglory and ofpower, it was natural for the nobles
and the warriors to wish to share with the demi-gods of pa­
ganism, with the favored of heaven, the honor of those tri­
umphs which would secure immortal claims on the gratitude
of the people. After the Scandinavian heroes, after Struth
of Winkelried, Belzunce, and Dieudonne of Gozon, we can
refer to a young noble who accompanied St. Pol when he
wished to destroy the dragon of the Isle of Batz ;
* and also
St. Bertrand, the conqueror of the dragon of Comminges, a
bishop who belonged to an illustrious race ; for he was the
son of a Count of Toulouse.+
* Cambry, Voyage, dans Is Departement du Finisterrs, tome i., p. 147,148.
t Dictionnaire de Moreri, art. Saint Bertrand.
t Carlo Torre, Ritratto di Milano, p. 273.
We might also quote the pretended origin ofthe praenomen
of the Nompar of Caumont. Reviving for themselves the
fabulous history of the founder of Nismes, they relate that
this praenomen was transmitted to them by one of their an­
cestors, who, in fact, showed himself sans pair {non par) in
giving death to a monstrous dragon whose ravages desolated
his territory.
But to avoid tedious repetitions, we shall confine ourselves
to remarking how much this pretension on the part of the
nobles was favored by the figures with which each of them
ornamented his helmet or his shield, and which, from them,
have passed into coats of arms.
Ubert was the first who, among the Milanese, fulfilled the
functions delegated to the Counts {Comites) of the Lower
Empire, and of the Empire of Charlemagne. He adopted,
in consequence, the surname of viscount, which he trans­
mitted to his descendants. At Milan, in that place where
the very ancient Church of St. Denis rears itself, there
was a deep cavern, the dwelling of an ever-hungry dragon,
whose breath spread death to a great distance. Ubert fought
it and killed it; and he wished its image to figure in the
coats of arms of the Visconti4 According to Paul Jove,
Othon, one of the first viscounts, distinguished himself in
the army of Godfrey of Bouillon: a Saracen chief, whom he
slew in single combat, bore upon his helmet the figure of a
serpent devouring an infant; the conqueror placed it in his
coat of arms, and left to his posterity this monument of his
Digitized by Google
268 ILLUSTRATIONS.
glory.
* The recital of Paul Jove, if it is not as true as the
other, is at least as probable.
* Paul Jove, in Vit, duod. Vicecom. Medial. Princip., Prafatio.
t Millin, Antiquitte Rationales, tome ii., art Saint Spire de CorbeiL
t Bottin, Traditions, <$€., p. 164, 165.
$ N. Dallou. Monumens des differens Apes observis dans le Departement
de la Haute Vienne, p. 359. || Morpante. Cont. iv., ottav. 7, et eeq.
If Manuscr, de la Bibliotkeque du Roi, No. 7535, folio 16 verso, colonae 2.
Aymon, count of Corbeil, bore upon his shield a dragon
with two heads. In a street of Corbeil there may be seen a
covered drain, which terminates at the River of Etampes :
according to popular tradition, this was formerly the den of
a dragon with two heads, the terror of the -country ; the
Count Aymon had the honor of conquering it.t
The family Dragon of Ramillies had as its arms a gold
dragon in an azure field. This family traces the origin of
its name, and of its coat of arms, to a victory obtained by
John, lord of Ramillies, over a dragon which desolated the
neighboring territory of Escaut, and which the intrepid baron
combated even in the cavern into which the monster enticed
its victims.t
The lion, being the symbol of strength, generally deco­
rated the tombs of the knights. Upon the tomb of Gouffier
of Lascours a serpent is added to it, as the symbol of pru­
dence. In these representations one may perceive an evi­
dent allusion to a marvelous adventure related by the chron­
icles, in which this warrior had delivered a lion from an
enormous dragon by which it was pursued. The grateful
animal attached himself to his benefactor, and followed him
every where like a faithful dog.$ We may observe that
this is precisely the adventure that the author of the Mor-
gantc ascribes to Renaud ofMontauban.il But the invention
does not belong to him; the same story is found again in
the poetical romance of Chrestein of Troyes, entitled the
Knight of the Lion.IT
Similar recitals have arisen from similar causes, before the
invention of chivalrous emblems and coats of arms.
A warrior always desires to present to his adversaries
objects capable of striking them with terror. The serpent
is the emblem of a prudent and dangerous enemy; the
winged serpent, or dragon, is the presage of rapid and inev­
itable destruction. These signs found their place upon the
banners, as well as upon the face of the shields, and upon
the tops of the helmets. The dragon figured also among
the military ensigns of the Assyrians ; and Cyrus, the con­
queror of the Assyrians, caused it to be adopted by the Per­
Digitized by CjOOQle
ILLUSTRATIONS. 269
sians and by the Medes.
* Under the Roman emperors, and
under the emperors of Byzantium, every cohort, or centurion,
bore a dragon as its ensign.f Grosley affirms (but without
bearing out his assertion by decisive proofs) that the dragons,
from being military ensigns, which were the objects of the
worship of the Roman soldier, passed into the churches, and
figured in the processions of the Rogations as trophies ac­
quired by the conquests of religion.t
We must admit, also, that similar signs have more than
once recalled the remembrance of astronomic myths; and
when it is known that in religious ceremonies the image
of the dragon was carried by the side of that of St. George,
before the Emperor of Constantinople,$ we are tempted to
believe that St. George owes to this custom the legend
which has placed him in the same rank as St. Michael.
Vthcr, the first king of England, the father of the famous
King Arthur, imitated in battle the example ofthe Assyrians
and the Persians, and hoisted a dragon with a golden head
as an ensign. In consequence of this transaction, he re­
ceived the surname of Pen-dragon (Dragon-head), a surname
which gave rise to many marvelous recitals. For instance,
it is related that he saw in the skies a star which had the
form of a fiery dragon, and which foretold his elevation to
the throne.|| The astronomical origin of the primitive le­
gend had not been forgotten.
$ XII.
ANCIENT MYTHOLOGY ALTERED FOR THE PURPOSE OF FINDING
IN IT THE LEGEND OF THE SERPENT.
After having corrupted history; after having mistaken the
origin of physical representations ; forgotten the significa­
tion of monuments; and even having read and seen upon
them what had never existed, the desire ofdiscovering every
where a myth which had been familiarized required but one
step more : it only remained to sacrifice objects of ancient
credulity, and to disfigure a preceding mythology, in order to
bend it to the recitals of a new mythology. The following
is a fact of this species, which, without being positive, is not
* Georg. Codin, Curop. de Official. Palat. Constant....... Feria qua in Pa-
lafio solent, fyc.
t Modestus. De Vocabul. Pci Milit. Flav. Veget., De Re MUitari, lib. it,
cap. 13- Georg. Codin. Curop.. loc. cit.
t Grosley, Ephemerides, iii'
*
. partie, chap, ix., tome ii., p. 222-225.
ft Georg. Codin, Curop. de. Official. Palat. Cons., loc. cit. ** Cantata
igttitr lititrgid ... aliud (Elatnnjrolnm) quodfert sanctum Georcium equi-
tem, aliud draconteum,” &c. j| Ducainte. Glossar., verho Draco.
Digitized by C>ooQle
270 ILLUSTRATIONS.
devoid of probability. It is attached to a memorial suffi­
ciently famous to render excusable the details upon which
we are forced to enter.
In explaining a medal which appeared to belong to the
fifteenth century, and which, on the reverse of the head of
Geoffrey of Lusignan, says, Geoffrey a la grand'dent, dis­
played the head of a fantastic monster. Millin
* relates that
Geoffrey was invited to combat a monster which had al­
ready devoured an English knight. When prepared to at­
tempt the adventure, Geoffrey died of sickness. The head
drawn upon the medal is, he adds, that of the monster,
“ which Geoffrey would certainly have conquered, had not
death prevented him.” But a medal would never have been
struck out to immortalize what had never occurred: it must
then have been that tradition in the family of Lusignan, to
which Millin attributes the manufacture of the medal, and
which related that the brave count, like so many saints and
heroes who have passed in review before us, was the van­
quisher of the monster.
Let us remember, first, that Geoffrey was the son, or,
rather, the descendant of the famous Mellusine or Merlu-
sine,t Melesendis, who transformed herself every Saturday
into a serpent; secondly, that the Sassenages, who con-
* Voyage au Midi de la France, tome iv., p. 707, 708. Geoffrey a la
grand?dent died about the year 1250.
f I shall not contest with M. Mazet, quoted by Millin (Voyage au Midi
de la France, tome iv., p. 706), whether the mother of Geoffrey was en­
titled Mclicendis, Melesindis (Melisende), and that this name may have
been confounded with that of Mellusine. But, far from admitting that it
has produced it, it is my opinion that the confusion arose because the
name of Mellusine was already celebrated. Still less easily shall I adopt
another etymology, according to which the Lady of Melle, bearing this
lordship as her dower to the Sieur de Lusignan, the two names united
and formed that of Mellusine.—(Memoires de la Socitti des Antiquaires de
France, tome iii., p. 279, 280). At the commencement of the thirteenth
century women aid not join their names to that of their husband’s do­
minions. I do not even think that they commonly bore the name of
their own possessions. In pronouncing it Merlusin with Brantome ( Vies
des Homines Illustres, tfC., tome viii., p. 322) and with the people, more
certain guides than the learned upon the pronunciation of names handed
down in ancient stories, I draw near to the orthography of the family
name of Geoffrey, thus written upon the medal before mentioned, Gode-
fridus de Lusinem. You have only to place mdre (mater) before the last
word to reproduce the name of Merlusine, and to prove that it was noth­
ing more than the simple title ofMotherof Lusignan (Mdre des Lusignan),
applied by the people to the woman-serpent, to the fairy from whom tliis
family claimed or adduced their descent Our etymology is the less
probable from the fact that Jean d’Arras, the first author who compiled
the history of Merluzine, wrote in the reign of Jean, in the fourteenth cen­
tury, when the family name of the Lusignans had been long fixed and
become celebrated.
Digitized by C>ooQle
ILLUSTRATIONS. 271
sidered Geoffrey of the great tooth (a la grand’dent) as
among their ancestors, had sculptured upon the exterior door
oftheir castle a figure Mellusine,
* that is to say, halfwoman,
half serpent.
Merlusine was a benevolent fairy; it seemed, therefore,
natural to rank one of her descendants among the number
of hero-destroyers of the deadly serpent, and when applying
to him the universal and common legend, to ascribe to him
a victory perpetuated by the medal, of which an explanation
has been attempted by Millin.
But where, in the marshes of Poitou, could a being half
woman, half serpent, or alternately the one Or the other,
have originated 1
A tradition, preserved to the present day, informs us that
Merlusine transformed herselfinto a fish, and not into a ser­
pent.} This is the key to the enigma, which belongs to a
high antiquity. The image of the mermaid, which the mod­
erns deemed a siren, although all the ancient writings and
monuments depict the sirens as bird and woman,} this im­
age, so common in the time of Horace, that the poet cited
it as the type of absurdity^—this image, that the Greeks
applied to Eurynome, one of the wives of the God of the
* Millin, Magasin Encyclopedique. 1811, tome vi., p. 108-112.
t Mtmoires de la Societi dee Antiquaires de France, tome iii., p. 320.
Scarron was not ignorant ofthis tradition, for in his third satire he makes
a fop declare that he will make
“The infant Mellusine;
The heroine will be half woman, half fish,”
appear on the stage.
Let us observe, the most generally received tradition very nearly ap­
proaches this in placing Mellusine in an immense basin, the blows of her
tail forcing the water up to the vaulted roof of the chamber.—Bulletin de
la Soeiete <1
* Agriculture de Poitiers, 1828, p. 214, 215.
| In a wall of the interior court of the Museum of Paris is incrusted
an ancient alto-relievo of white, marble, a,bird-woman, a siren. Mount-
faucon saw similar figures of sirens in red marble in the town of Aldo-
brandino (Diarium Italicum, 170, p. 190, 191). At Styniphales, upon the
borders of Argolis and Arcadia, marble statues represent young girls hav­
ing the legs of birds (Pausanias, Arcad., cap. xxii.). In the ruins of the
ancient temples of the Island of Java, several figures of birds having the
heads of girls have been discovered, and one was remarked as having the
head of an aged man (Description of Jara, by Marchal, 4to, Brussels. 1824).
This proves the antiquity of the myth relative to the siren, but does not
indicate the origin of it Plato, assisted, perhaps, by the traditions of an­
cient India, placed a siren on each of the eight circles of the heavens,
who sung while following the periodical revolution (Plat., De Repub., lib.
x.) Menrphylle, in Plutarch, reject
* this idea, because the sirens, he says,
are malevolent genii; but Ammonius justifies Plato.
§ Turpiter atrum
Desinit in piscem mulier formosa superne.
Horat, De Art. Poet.
Digitized by C>ooQle
212 ILLUSTRATIONS.
Sea, is that under which the Syrians and Phoenicians in­
voked Astarte, or Atergatis, the Celestial Virgin.
* It may
be found in the Egyptian planisphere, where it represents
the sign of the fishes united to that of the Virgin, It is per­
petuated in the religions of Japan! and Hindostan,t and pre­
served in the ancient mythology of the Island of Java.§
* According to the scholiast of Germanicus (Arataa Phenomena Virgo),
the celestial virgin is identical with Atergatis. Hyginus recognizes Venus
in the sign Pisces. t Canon, Japanese Divinity.
t Third Ataicr of Vishnu. 6 Description of Jara.
|| Kracheninnikow, Description ofKamtschatka, first part, chap. iv.
Barb6 Marbois. Journal d'Un Diporte, tome ii., p. 134.
It has even penetrated into Kamtschatka, doubtless with
the Lamich religion. In the lortes (iourtes) of the northern
Kamtschatdales one sees the idol Khan-tai represented
with a human body as far as the chest, the remainder re­
sembling the tail ofa fish. A fresh image is fabricated every
year, and the number of these point out the number of years
the lourt had been constructed.il This peculiarity proves
that the idol Khan-tai, like the mermaid of the Egyptian
planisphere, is of an astronomical origin, since it has re­
mained the symbol of the renewal of the year.
We are not able to speak so decidedly of the Mother of
the Water, a malevolent divinity half fish, half woman, who,
according to the natives of Guiana, delights in attracting the
fishermen to the open sea, and then sinking their frail ves­
sels. This fable, it is said, was spread over America be­
fore the arrival of the Europeans.T
Could a symbol so frequently reproduced reach Gaul’
Could time modify it sufficiently to have changed the ex­
tremity of a fish into that of a serpent 1
1. To the first question I answer, that this symbol still
exists in one of the most ancient towns of France, namely,
at Marseilles. Upon an angle of the Fort St. John can be
distinguished the gigantic figure of a monster halfwoman,
half fish. If it has been thus reproduced in the construction
of Fort St. John, it was most probably because it existed
long before as a national monument. Its name, the same as
that of the town, Marseilles, indicates that it represented the
local divinity, the town itself deified. The Phocians, in
adopting a symbol so suitable for characterizing a large mar­
itime city, would not have had occasion to borrow from
Tyre, Sidon, or Carthage. They had founded their colony
under the auspices of the Great Diana of Ephesus, the heav­
enly virgin who was adored in this form not only in Asia, but
even in Greece ; for the statue, halfwoman, half fish, hon­
Digitized by Google
ILLUSTRATIONS. 273
ored at Phigalia, was frequently regarded as a statue of Di­
ana.
*
2. Almost all the Tartar princes trace their genealogy to
a celestial virgin, impregnated by a sunbeam or some equally
marvelous means,t In other language, the mythologywhich
serves as the starting-point of their annals belongs to the
age in which the sign of the Virgin was used for denoting
the summer solstice.
The Greeks deduced the origin of the Scythians from a
virgin, half woman, half serpent, who had intercourse with
Jupiter or Hercules,! both emblems of the generating sun.
If, as it is allowable to suppose, the two origins are synony­
mous, the Greeks, in the image of the national divinity of
the Celestial Virgin, from whom the Scythians and Tartars
pretended to derive their descent, will have mistaken or not
recognized the form of the lower part, but in place of the
extremity of a fish have seen that of a serpent. Now, in
order to fix upon the banks of the Sevre both the ancient
symbol and the alteration by which it has been disfigured,
I need not refer to the Druids, who honored a virgin who
was to bring forth children—the Celestial Virgin, who, every
year shining in the highest heavens, should at midnight re­
store to the earth the child-god, the sun, bom of the winter
solstice. It does not appear that the Druids ever offered
physical representations to the veneration of our ancestors,
or, at least, not until the times when communication with
other nations induced them, by degrees, to imitate their idol­
atry. But Pytheas, who had coasted along the western
shores of Gaul, could not assuredly have been the only one
among the Marseillaise navigators nor could the Phoeni­
cians and Carthaginians, in tneir researches after tin in the
Cassiterides islands, have omitted landing upon the coasts
* Pausanias, Arcad., cap. 41. A priestess of Diana, at Ephesus, had
followed the Phoceans to Marseilles, bearing with her a statue of the di­
vinity, and these latter instituted the worship of Diana, as they had re­
ceived it from their ancestors, in every town they founded in Gaul, as,
for instance, at Agde.—Strabo, lib. iv.
t Eulogium of Moukden, p. 13, and 221-225. Alankava, or Alancoiia, a
Mongol princess, experienced three times successively that a celestial
light had penetrated her bosom, and she confidently announced that she
should bring forth to the world three male children. Her prediction was
verified. Ofher three sons, called children of the light, one became the
father of the Kap-Giaks Tartars; another the ancestor of the Seigink, or
Selgionktdes; and from the third Genghis and Tamerlane were descend­
ed.—Petis de la Croix, History of Genghis Khan, p. 11-13. D’Herlielot,
Biblioth. Orientals, art Alankava.
t Herodot, lib. iv., cap. 9.—Died. Sic., lib. ii., cap. 20.
§ The Marseillaise established the worship of Diana of Ephesus in
every town they founded.—Strabo, lib. iv.
s
Digitized by Croogle
274 ILLUSTRATIONS.
of Brittany and Poictiers. One of these nations may have
brou "lit the worship of the mermaid into Western Gaul; for
under the name of Onvana or Anvana, the Gauls adored the
figure of a woman, having the tail of a fish.
* A Gallic chief,
as jealous as the Tartars of ascribing to himself a supernat­
ural origin, may have pretended to have been descended from
this divinity, and would therefore select the image as his
distinctive emblem. The progress of Christianity would
have the effect of making the goddess regarded as a woman
only, yet endowed like a fairy with supernatural powers, but
not of abolishing her memory or effacing her image. Time
and the imperfection of sculpture would, rather later, occa­
sion an error similar to that which the Greeks had already
committed ; the tail of a fish would pass for the extremity
of a serpent. Founded upon this mistake, the new tradition
would prevail with greater ease, because, as we have already
seen, from the fifth to the fifteenth century, serpents held a
prominent part in the popular superstitions ofthe West; and
thus the form given to Merlusine, and the exploit attributed
to her descendant, would be the consequences ofthe sacrifice
of an ancient belief to one more recently and generally
adopted.
§ XIII.
RECAPITULATION, OR SUMMARY.
. The discussion of this conjecture, which we submit to the
decision of archeologists, has not caused us to diverge from
our subject. We had proposed seeing how a narration, ev­
idently absurd, false, and impossible, could be spread, and,
multiplying itself under a thousand different forms, univer­
sally meet with an equal and constant credulity.
Metaphorical expressions of real facts may sometimes
have given rise to it, but not have the effect of sending it
beyond the narrow circle where the one was observed and
the other put in practice.
An accident, as local and variable as the overflowing of
a river, could not have been universally represented by the
* Martin, Religion of the Gauls, vol. ii., p. 110. Toland, History the
Druids, p. 137. Among the descriptions discovered upon the ancient
wali at Bourdeaux, the following was remarked ;
" Cains Julius Floras okvavir."
(Memoire de rAmdeoiie de Rourdcaux, Meeting of 16th of June, 1829, p.
1S2, and shelf 3, No. 52.) I think onraoa is the dative of the same noun
as ourana, either the inscription may have been copied incorrectly, or
the workman may have made a mistake in transcribing a strange name
Digitized by Google
ILLUSTRATIONS. 275
same allegory, which elsewhere could be but very imperfect­
ly applied.
The pretended fact is, in its origin, nothing more than the
representation of an astronomical picture, adopted by the
greater part of the mythologies of antiquity. When the tra­
dition of this dogma of polytheism ceded to the progress
of Christianity, an outward ceremony, perpetuated in this
religion, created as many repetitions of the original myth as
the Western Church could number congregations of the
faithful. In vain they attempted to draw the attention of
the vulgar to the allegory expressed by the ceremony ; their
minds and looks remained fixed on the physical representa­
tion. Their habits getting the better of their piety, they
looked not for their deliveries among the inhabitants of the
heavens alone, but recognized them among men, particularly
when conformable with a point of the astronomical allegory ;
the victor was supposed to have lost his life in the bosom
of victoiy. The names of celebrated personages, those of
nobles whose power had been feared, or courage admired,
were unceasingly reproduced. Historical remains were fal­
sified for this end; every physical representation which
might recall it renewed the recital; and it was sought out
among emblems and monuments utterly foreign to it, and
even in signs invented by glory or military pride. They
even went so far (if our last conjecture is not too rash) as
to alter the symbols and beliefs of a mythology prior to it, in
order to appropriate them to it. Singular progress of an in­
credulity not only blind and easy, but greedy and insatiable.
Does it not merit being signalized by the meditations of a
philosopher 1 The history ofcredulity is the most extensive
branch, and certainly one of the most important in the moral
history of the human race.
ON THE STATUE OF MEMNON.
Notices and Inscriptions attesting the Vocal Property of the Statue ; some
ofthem mention even the particular Words pronounced.—Explanations
pronounced.—Explanations Proposed I>y various Authors, but little con­
clusive.—According to Langles, the Sounds occasionally uttered by the
Statue correspond to the Seven Vowels, emblematical of the Seven
Planets.—The Oracle delivered by the Statue of Memnon.—Refutation
of the System of M. Letronne.—-The apparent Miracles most probably
the Result of Chicanery.—The Impossibility ofarriving at a satisfactory
Solution of the Problem.
In the vicinity of the ancient Thebes stood two colossal
figures, each consisting of a single stone, the secret inclo-
Digitized by VjOOQle
276 ILLUSTRATIONS.
sure of which bore the name of Memnonia. This word,
employed in the Egyptian language to signify “ a place sa­
cred to the memory of the dead,”* suggested to the memory
of the Greeks one of their heroes, celebrated by Homer.
With a vanity ever ready to appropriate and attach to their
own traditions whatever might be borrowed from the my­
thology or the history of a people more ancient than them­
selves, they regarded one of these colossal figures as con­
secrated to Memnon, and representing the son of Aurora, a
warrior who fell in the Trojan war, invested at an earlier
period than the remotest date of Grecian history. This was
the statue famed for the peculiarity ofemitting, on the rising
of the sun, sounds which, to the enthusiast, appeared to con­
vey a salutation addressed to Aurora or to the sun.f
* M. Letronne, La Statue Vocale de Memnon, 1 vol. 4to. We shall have
occasion more than once to quote this erudite work, though we do not
adopt the system it advocates.
1 The sound was said to resemble the snapping asunder of a musical
string, when the first beam of the morning sun fell upon it.—Ed.
The upper part of the statue was broken at a period not
correctly ascertained; but the miraculous sounds continued
to be heard, appearing to arise from the lower part. M. Le-
tronne believes the colossus to have been restored in the
third century of our era, large masses of gray stone being
substituted for that part of the original monolithe, the frag­
ments of which covered the ground.
When Juvenal saw this colossus, in the reign of Adrian,
it was broken ; Lucian, under Marcus Aurelius, and Philos-
tratus, under Servius, describe it as entire. It is true, that
Lucian mentions it in a satirical work ; but his raillery is di­
rected against the exaggeration of a witness to the assumed
miracle, and does not refer to the statue, whether in its
mutilated or restored condition. Philostratus, by a palpable
anachronism, causes a cotemporary of Domitian to speak
of it. This license, which could not be the effect of igno­
rance, tends to prove that the restoration was not recent;
for no one could place an event which had just taken place
in a past century.
The witnesses who attested the vocal nature of the statue
cease with the reign of Caracalla. We are ignorant at what
period and by what means the restored statue was again
broken, and equally so as to the time at which its lower part,
long silent, ceased to reveal its ancient glory, except by the
inscriptions by which it is covered.
Before discussing the various explanations which have
been offered of this apparent prodigy, let us call to mind
Digitized by UooQle
ILLUSTRATIONS. 277
what has been said regarding it by the Greeks and Romans,
the only people from whom we derive direct testimony.
The Egyptians accused Cambyses of having broken and
overturned the statue of Memnon, with the same impious
fury that led him to insult or to destroy other sacred monu­
ments
* in the land of Osiris. Their well-founded detesta­
tion for the memory of a barbarous conqueror induced them
to impute to him the result of a natural catastrophe, if it be
true, as related by Strabo, that the fall of the colossus was
occasioned by an earthquake, the date of which is given by
this writer.
But for what reason, it may be asked, did Cambyses limit
the work ofdestruction to one ofthese sacred images 1 This
inquiry, which at first sight appears to weaken the gener­
ally received tradition, tends, on the contrary, to strengthen
it, if we admit that the miraculous sound proceeding from
this image only made it the marked object of religious ven­
eration to the natives, while it attracted to it the fanatic
hatred of the fire-worshipers.
Manethon, as quoted by Eusebius, by Josephus, and also
by St. Jerome, affirms that the colossal statue of Amenophis
was identical with the vocal statue of Memnon. Had not
its authority been contested, the testimony given by Ptolemy
Philadelphus, an Egyptian priest, of great research into the
antiquities of his country, would be of much importance.
Dionysius Periegetest describes in verse “the ancient
Thebes, where the sonorous Memnon hails the rising of Au­
rora.” It is generally supposed that the poetical geographer
wrote shortly after Egypt had been reduced to the condition
of a Roman province; from which it would follow that the
miracle, as well as the fabulous condition connected with it
by the Greeks and Romans, was at that time, and had long
been known and celebrated. But the critic is left at liberty
to fix the epoch at which Dionysius flourished: in tbe reign
of Augustus, of Severus, or of Caracalla.
In speaking ofMemnon, “ There were,” says Strabo, “ two
colossal statues, each composed of a single stone, and stand­
ing near one another. One of them remains entire. It is
said that the upper part of the other was overturned by an
earthquake ; and it is also believed that a sound resembling
that produced by a slight blow proceeds from the base, and
* Justin., lib. i., cap. 9.
f Dionys. Perieget., vers. 249. 250. This Dionysius was a writer of the
Augustan age. He singularly enough wrote a geographical treatise in
Greek hexameters; consequently, he occasionally sacrifices truth to his
poetical imaginings.—Ed.
Digitized by C>ooQle
278 ILLUSTRATIONS.
from that part of the colossus resting on it. I myself, in
company with tEUus Gallus, and a number of his soldiers,
heard it toward the dawn of day. But whether, in reality, it
proceeded from the base or the colossus, or was produced
by connivance, I can not decide. In uncertainty of the real
cause, it is better to believe any thing, than to admit that a
sound can issue from stones similarly disposed.”*
* Strabo, lib. xvii.
t Tacit, Annal., lib. ii., cap. 61, et lib. iii., cap. 17.
t Plin., Hist. Nat., lib. xxxvi., cap. 7, N. Dion Chrysostom (Orai. xxxi.)
speaks ofthe statue ofMemnon aa ofthe image of a divinity.
§ Juvenal, Sai., xv., verse 5. [| Pausanias, Attic., cap. 49.
During his travels in Egypt, Germanicus was struck with
admiration at the stone image of Memnon, which, as soon
as the rays of the sun fell upon it, emitted a sound resem­
bling that of a human voice (vocalem sonum). It is thus that
Tacitus expresses himself, an historian so much the more
worthy of credit, that he had in his youth learned various
important details respecting Germanicus from several old
men, cotemporaries of that prince.t
“At Thebes,” says Pliny, “in the Temple of Serapis,
stands the image said to be consecrated to Memnon, which
daily is heard to emit a sound when the first rays of the sun
fall upon it.”t
Juvenal, who resided in, or was banished to, Upper Egypt,
not far from the district which owes its fame to the monu­
ments of Memnonium, notices the statue in these words :
“ There,” said he, “ the magic chords ofthe mutilated Mem­
non may be heard.
“I admired this colossus much,” says Pausanias.il “It
is a sitting statue, which appears to represent the sun;
many people call it the statue of Memnon, but the Thebans
deny this. It was destroyed (literally broken in two) by
Cambyses. At the present day, the upper part, from the
crown of the head to the middle of the body, lies neglected
on the ground. The other part still remains in a sitting pos­
ture ; and every day at sunrise it gives out a sound re­
sembling that produced by the strings of a guitar, or ofa lyre,
when they break at the instant they are screwed up.”
From the times of Lucian, the fame of this colossus at­
tracted the curious into Egypt. In the dialogue upon friend­
ship (Toxaris), it is related by Lucian that “the philoso­
pher Demetrius traveled into Egypt in order to see Mem­
non, having heard that the statue caused its voice to be
heard at the rising of the sun (/3od»). I set out for Coptos,”
he caused Eucrete to say, in the Philopseude, “ to see Mem-*
*
*
§
Digitized by LjOOQle
ILLUSTRATIONS. 279
non, and to hear the miraculous sound which issues from it
at day-dawn. I did hear it, and not, like many others, pro­
ducing an uncertain sound: Memnon himself, opening his
mouth, addressed to me an oracle in seven lines, which, were
it not superfluous, I would repeat to you.”
Philostratus says, that “ the statue of Memnon, which is
turned toward the east, is heard to speak as soon as a ray
of the sun falls upon its mouth.”*
At a period when this assumed miracle had undoubtedly
ceased, Himerius, a cotemporary of Ammianus Marcellinus,
again asserted that the colossus spoke to the sun with a hu­
man voice,t But on consideration of the dates, we find that
his testimony, as well as that of Callistratus.t merely attests
the existence of a tradition which these authors notice with­
out further discussion.
Two unedited works of Juvenal, and the erudite Eusta­
thius, inform us of the modifications that the tradition had
undergone in subsequent times.
According to the firsts “ the statue of Memnon, the son
of Aurora, was so contrived by mechanical artifice that it
addressed a greeting both to the sun and to the king, with
a voice apparently human. In order to ascertain the source
of the apparent miracle, Cambyses caused the statue to be
cut in two: after which it continued to salute the sun, but
addressed the king no longer. Thence the poet has adopted
the ephithet Dimidio (ofwhichthere remained only the half).’’
The other scholiast strangely alters the generally received
tradition.il It says “that a statue in brass, representing
Memnon, and holding a guitar, was heard to sing at partic­
ular hours of the day. Cambyses caused it to be opened,
on the supposition that mechanism was concealed within the
statue. But, notwithstanding its mutilation, the statue hav­
ing received a magical consecration, still produced the same
sounds at the customary hours. It is on this account that
Juvenal applies to Memnon the epithet Dimidius, open, or
divided into two parts.”
In commenting on verses 249, 250 of Dionysius Periege-
tes, Eustathius notices, first, that the colossus represented
the Day, the son of Aurora. “ It was,” he adds, “ the statue
of a man, from which, by means of a particular mechanism,
a voice appeared to issue, and seemed to salute the day,
* Philostrat, De Vit. Apollon., lib. vi., cap. 6.
t Himerius, Oral. viii. et xvi. Photii, Bibl. Cod., 243.
i
Callistrat., Ererrit. de Memnon.
> Scholiaste inbdit de Juvenal, cif6 par Vandale, Casselius et Douza.
| Sclwliaate inGdit cit6 par Vandale.
Digitized by C>ooQle
280 ILLUSTRATIONS.
and to render it homage from an inward spontaneous emo­
tion.”
Numerous Greek and Latin inscriptions engraved upon
the colossus testify that various persons, attracted by mo­
tives of religion or curiosity, had heard the miraculous voice.
Monsieur Letronne
* made a collection of them to the num­
ber of seventy-two, and has restored and explained them.
In preserving his enumeration, I shall quote such of them
only as seem to throw some new light on my subject.
* La Statue Vacate de Memnon, tfc. t Jablonski.
Six inscriptions (Nos. x., xii., xvii., xx., xxxvi., and
xxxvii.) affirm that it had spoken to the sun twice on the
same day. Another, No. xix., that the voice had been heard
three times in the presence of the Emperor Adrian, who
looked on this miracle as a pledge of the favor of the gods.
The author of the seventeenth asserts that Memnon spoke
to him, addressing him in a friendly manner.
The following, according to Jabionskit and several other
learned men, is a translation of the twelfth inscription.
“Memnon, the son of Tithon and Aurora, up to this date,
had merelypermitted us to hear his voice; to-day he greeted
us as his allies and friends. I caught the meaning of the
words as they issued from the stone. They were inspired
by Nature, the creator of all things.” M. Letronne thinks
that for this last phrase the following should be substituted:
“ Did Nature, the creator ofall things, inspire this stone with
a voice and understanding 1” Without entering into a dis­
cussion on these words, we may observe that in reality the
correction is of less importance than at first sight it appears
to be.
The marked distinction between the unnecessary sound
which generally issued from the statue, and the particular
friendly salutation, appears to me to prove that the authors,
both of this inscription and of the seventeenth, have heard
distinct words, which they entirely believe to proceed from
the sacred stone.
On comparing these various testimonies, we find that,
toward the dawn of day, a sound similar to that produced by
a lute or copper instrument usually proceeded from the
statue (inscr. xix.). This apparent miracle was repeated
two and even three times in a day; at last, increasing in pro­
portion to the credulity of the witnesses, the statue arrived
at the pronunciation of consecutive words, and the delivery
of complete sentences.
This last prodigy calls to remembrance the inscriptions
Digitized by Google
ILLUSTRATIONS. 281
and traditions preserved by Homer and Philostratus, and in
the Philopseude of Lucian, and is apparently the least ad­
missible of any; yet I believe it to be the most easily ex­
plained.
It was not exclusively confined to Memnon : at Daphne,
near Antioch, stood the Temple of Apollo, where at noonday
the image of that god was heard to chant a melodious hymn
to the admiration of his worshipers.
*
* Libanius, Monodia super Daphn. ApoIlin.
t Euseb., Prapar. Evangel., lib. iv.
j This expression does not specify Zoroaster. The Greeks have fre­
quently given the title of Magi to the Chaldean and even to the Egyptian
priest; they signified by it a person consecrated to a particular goddess,
inspired by her, and superior to other men in science and wisdom,
If the reader bears in mind what has been already said
(c. xii.) concerning the vocal statues celebrated by Pindar,
the speaking heads, the uses of ventriloquism, and the ad­
vantages derived from the science of acoustics by the thau­
maturgists, the impossibility of the account disappears ; all
depends on the choice of the moment and the absence of in­
convenient spectators. We may even conclude, that while
believing that he repeated an absurd falsehood, Lucian has
related a real fact, an apparent miracle, that under advan­
tageous circumstances might again be performed in the pres­
ence of enthusiasts, who are generally as incapable of pene­
trating an artifice as of conceiving a doubt or raising an ob­
jection.
It is not impossible even that we may recover the oracle
in seven lines, heard by Philopseude, which he regarded as
an inspiration of “ Nature, the creator of all things I” The
following oracle, composed of a similar number of lines, and
transmitted to us by Eusebius,! appears to answer this
question: ■
•
* Invoke Mercury, the Sun, and in the same manner
The day of the Sun; and the Moon when her day
Arrives ; and Saturn’s ; and Venus’ in her turn;
By means of the ineffable invocations, discovered by the most skillful of
the MagbJ
King of the seven timesresounding, known to a great number ofmen;
* * * * * * *
And invoke always, much, and in secret, the gods ofthe sevenfoldvoice.”
The text itself indicates that a verse is wanting, as may
be concluded by the omission of the names of Mars and of
Jupiter; this verse was the first, the third, or the fourth,
rather than the sixth, completing the oracle, both as to the
sense and the number of lines. Having no meaning in the
position of the sixth, where it was placed by the inadvert-
Digitized by C>ooQle
282 ILLUSTRATIONS.
ence of a copyist, it would have been totally omitted at a
later period.
The oracle prescribes the addressing of invocations to
planets, as well as the observance of days particularly con­
secrated to each. Notwithstanding the loss of the line, it is
very clear that the invocations must have been seven in
number, in accordance with the days of the week and the
number of the planets. He who instituted this form of
worship was the king (director) ofthe seven times resounding,
a name which appears to indicate a machine or statue ca­
pable of producing seven intonations. It is subsequently
commanded to address continual invocations to the god of
the sevenfold voice. Compared with the title, seven times re­
sounding, it appears that this was the god to whom the ma­
chine was consecrated, or of whom the statue was the im­
age ; even the sun, recognized by the ancients as the king
of the celestial world. The statue of Memnon was that of
the sun, according to Pausanias.
Other observations concur to support our conjecture.
In the earlier ages of Christianity, a religious signification
was attached to the seven vowels. Eusebius observes, that,
oy a wonderful mystery, the ineffable name ofGod, in the four
grammatical modifications to which it submits, comprehends
the seven vowels.
* This religious signification serves,
also, to explain an inscription composed of seven lines, each
of which presents the seven Greek vowels under a different
combination.! Gruter and his editor regard the inscription
as apocryphal; but Edward Holten has seen the seven vow­
els sculptured on a stone in a similar arrangement.! “ All
the mystery which they contain,” says he, “ consists in the
name ofJehovah, composed ofseven letters, and seven times
repeated.” With sufficient plausibility, he attributes in­
scriptions of this nature to the Basilidians, who, like many
other sectarians in the earlier ages of the Church, were only
theurgists, who grafted on Christianity the rites and super­
stitious initiations of a more ancient religion.
* Prop. Evangel., lib. vi., cap. 6.
t Jan. Gruter, Corp. Inscript., tome ii., p. 21. J Ibid., p. 346.
6 Dionys. Halicarn.
fl Euseb., Prop. Evangel. Scaliger, Animadvers, E’mscJ., No. 1730. Let
us observe that the vowels were retained to a comparatively late period
in the mystic allegories relative to the solar system, The modern writers,
From Egypt was borrowed, among others, this superstition
relative to vowels. The Egyptian priests chanted the seven
vowels as a hymn addressed to Serapis,$ In an inscription
preserved byEusebius,II Serapis declares to his worshipers:
Digitized by Google
ILLUSTRATIONS, 283
“ The seven vowels glorify me, the great and immortal God,
the unwearied Father of all things.” Is it necessary to call
to mind that, in divination, Serapis stood as one of the em­
blems of the solar system, and that Pliny assigns to Serapis
the temple with which the statue of Memnon was conse­
crated 1
The mystery attached to this mode of adoration explains
the application to the invocations of the epithet ineffable, as
well as the silence which Eucrates observes respecting the
substance of the oracle in seven lines which he pretends to
have heard. Thus, in the religion of the Hindoos, of the
Parsees, and even ofIslam, certain syllables are consecrated,
the pronunciation of which is equivalent to a prayer, and
whose sacred efficacy must not be revealed.
*
Whatever weight we may attach or refuse to these con­
jectures with regard to particular occasions, it may be read­
ily admitted that, where the operations of the thaumatur-
gists were unrestrained by enlightened curiosity, the ma­
chinery employed for animating an automaton, or perhaps
mere ventriloquism, would suffice to produce the words and
the oracles attributed to Memnon.
It is not so easy to explain the repetition of the apparent
miracle every morning.
The idea of an artifice that might lend its aid to the co­
lossus appears to have struck Strabo. His language is that
of a man who is on his guard respecting any deception that
might be practiced on him, rather than to admit that the
sound could really issue from the stone. Otherwise, he ad­
duces no fact in support of his conjecture.
The term of which Juvenal makes use appears to indi­
cate that, in his opinion, the miracle was the result ofmagic­
al art, that is to say, of an ingenious and concealed mech­
anism. Eustathiusf positively affirms it, as well as the two
probably more faithful echoes of the ancients, because they do not fully
comprehend them, have preserved the tradition that connects the seven
vowels with the idea of the planets. In the sixteenth century, Belot, cu­
rate of Milmont, asserted in his Chiromancic (chap, xviii.) that the seven
vowels are consecrated to the seven principal planets.
* The great mystical word in the Hindoo faith is O’M, applied to the
Supreme Being. It occurs in many of the hymns in the Vestas; as, for
example, in the following passage translated from them by Sir William
Jones : “ God, who is perfect wisdom and perfect happiness, is the final
refuge of the man who has liberally bestowed his wealth, who has been
firm in virtue, and who knows and adores that great one !”
“ Remember pie. O’M, Thou divine spirit I”—Ed.
t Eustathius was archbishop of Thessalonia in the twelfth century.
He was a man of great ambition, and distinguished as a commentator on
Homer. His annotations abound with historical and philological descrip­
tions.—Ed.
Digitized by CtOOqIc
584 ILLUSTRATIONS.
scholiastes of the Latin satirist. One of them even alludes
to a magical consecration of the statue; but he is in the
habit of taking so much license with history and with re­
ceived tradition that his testimony is almost without value.
The learned Langles adopted a similar explanation. To
render it plausible, he sets out from the supposition that
Memnon repeated the seven intonations in the hymn of the
Egyptian priests. To produce these required only a suc­
cession of hammers, ranged along a key-board, and striking
on sonorous stones, such as from time immemorial have
served as instruments of music in China.
*
* Langtes, Dissertation sur la Statue Vacate de Memnon. At the end of
the Voyages de Norden, tome ii., p. 157,256.
t Vandate, De Oracalis, p. 207-209.
If we could credit the assertion of Philostratus, that the
colossus, facing the east, emitted a sound on the rays of the
sun falling upon it, and at the very moment when they fell
on its mouth, we might easily conceive that this miraculous
mechanism was put in motion by some secret familiar to
the ancients. A strong and sudden heat, produced by the
concentration of the solar rays, would be sufficient to ex­
pand one or more metallic rods, which, in lengthening, might
act on the key-board, the existence of which is presumed by
Langles. Thus would have been derived from the sun itself
the power by which the statue greeted the return of the god
to whom it was consecrated, and of whom it was emblemat­
ical.
But, notwithstanding this plausible explanation, what
grounds exist for the supposition that seven successive in­
tonations proceeded habitually from the colossus? If, in
certain very rare cases, the skill of the priest was able to
produce something similar to this, the historical testimonies,
or the inscriptions, attest in general the emission of but one
single sound. Moreover, the miracle was discovered long
before the restoration of the statue, and at a time when the
head, lying in the sand, no longer communicated with the
lower part, whence the sounds appeared to proceed; and
again, no researches have been able to discover in the colos­
sus a cavity capable of containing the musical mechanism
supposed by Langles.
This last remark refutes also the conjecture of Vandale,
which suggests that in this colossus, as well as in several
other statues, a cavity was contrived for the introduction of
priests,! whose office it was to lend the assistance of their
voice to the divinity.
Digitized by UooQle
ILLUSTRATIONS. 285
The explanation proposed by Dussault is not more ad­
missible. “The statue being hollow,” says he, “the air
which it contains became affected by the heat of the sun,
and in escaping by some passage, produced a sound which
could be interpreted as best suited to the interests of the
priests.”* I may ask, what testimony has ever been given
that the statue was hollow 1 and, moreover, has not Dus­
sault ascribed to the elevation of temperature an unnatural
consequence 1 To arrive at the interior air, the sun must
have penetrated a layer of stone of great thickness, and that
almost instantaneously, and when the disk of the sun was
scarcely risen above the horizon.
In the immense apartments constructed Entirely of blocks
of granite, which are concealed among the ruins of Camac,
the celebrated sounds emitted from the stones have been
heard at the rising of the sun by French artists. “The
sounds appear to issue from enormous stones which roof
in the apartments, and are threatening to fall: the phenom­
enon undoubtedly proceeds from the sudden change of tem­
perature on the rising of the sun.”+ I am rather inclined
to think that the sounds were produced by the creaking
of one of these blocks, apparently about to fall. Masses of
red granite, when struck by a hammer, sound like a bell.f
In short, if we admit this explanation, we must also grant
that the statue of Memnon could never have ceased to be
sonorous; and we must believe that the ceilings, the walls,
the colossal figures, the obelisks of granite, raised in such
numbers in Egypt, also rendered sounds at the rising of the
sun. Allow this, and the miracle disappears ; the sonorous
stones claim no more attention than any other simple fact,
as common as the course of a stream or the noise of a tem­
pest. But we know that the colossus of Memnon alone en­
joys the prerogative; and since that peculiarity has disap­
peared, its exposure to the sun and the temperature of the
climate have not been subjected to the slightest alteration.^
The assertion on which this explanation is founded is
otherwise destitute of probability. Could the successive
change of temperature, such as is supposed, cause a sono­
rous body to sound! I reply, No. There is no direct ex­
periment on record which can authorize us to credit the as­
sertion. A bell, or tam-tam, would remain silent if exposed
to it; no sound proceeds from the eeolian harp, though the
* Dussault, Traduction de Juvenal, 2? 6diL, tome ii., p. 452, note 5.
t Description de VEgypt?, tome i., p. 234.
t Magasiu Encyclop., 1816, tome ii., p. 29.
9 Revue Encyclop., 1821, tome ix., p. 592.
Digitized by Google
286 ILLUSTRATIONS.
coolness of night is succeeded by a temperature very per­
ceptibly higher; and yet the strings of this harp readily pro­
cure lengthened chords on meeting with the slightest breath
of air.
Sir A. Smith, an English traveler, asserts that he has vis­
ited the statue of Mcmnon, and that, accompanied by a nu­
merous escort, he heard very distinctly, about six o’clock in
the morning, the sounds which rendered this image so cele­
brated in antiquity. He conceives the mysterious sound to
issue from the pedestal, not from the statue ; and believes
it to arise from the percussion of air on the stones of this
part, which are so disposed as to produce this singular effect.
But what can this disposition mean, since the base and lower
part of the colossus have always consisted of, and do still
form, but one piece 1 And how could it produce the result
indicated 1 This the traveler does not explain. In conclu­
sion, it may be asked, how he alone, of all modern specta­
tors, should have heard the colossus whose voice has been
for centuries silent 1 How could such an important phenom­
enon have escaped the observation of the French, who re­
mained several years in Egypt, and who pushed their learned
investigations to a great length 1 In all probability, Sir A.
Smith was deceived by a crashing noise similar to that heard
by the French artists at Carnac.
Such was the state of the question when M. Letronne at­
tempted to resolve it definitely by a new’ hypothesis, which
he supports with profound erudition and more logical mean­
ing
*
The silence of Herodotus and Diodorus of Sicily re­
specting the existence of this apparent miracle, and also in
reference to the tradition which imputes the destruction of
the monument to Cambyses, induces himto reject it; while
he fixes the period at which the statue of Memnon was first
heard to have been some centuries later. He puts aside,
as an interpolation, the important passage from Manethon ;
and sets out, from the assertion of Strabo, comparing it with
the notice by Eusebius, of a great earthquake which caused
many disasters in Egypt, twenty-seven years before our era.f
This brings him to the conclusion, that at that time the co­
lossus was one among many other monuments that were
broken; and that, by its mutilation, it acquired a vocal power,
which previously it had not enjoyed.
This new property appeared at first of little importance to
the surrounding population. At a subsequent period, the
* De la Statue Vocale de Mcmnoii, fyc. t Euscb., Chronicon.
Digitized by C>ooQle
ILLUSTRATIONS. 287
Greeks and Romans recognized it as a miracle; but its re­
nown did not become universal or widely spread before the
reign of Nero. It was then the traveler commenced to in­
scribe on the columns the reverential admiration he had ex­
perienced. None of these inscriptions are of Egpptian au­
thorship ; a proof that it excites in the natives neither en­
thusiasm nor admiration. Tacitus, in relating the travels
of Germanicus in Egypt, has spoken of the statue of Mem­
non as it is described by Domitian and Trajan: he erred
in substituting for the opinions of an earlier century the
ideas conceived regarding it in his own times. The fame of
the assumed miracle increased continually, and in the reign
of Adrian it reached its height. It had suffered no diminu­
tion when Septimus Severus
* conceived and executed the
project of restoring the colossus, by substituting blocks of
gray stone for that portion of the original mass which had
been broken by the fall. The statue then became mute ; the
last inscriptions alluding to its vocal power do not extend
after the simultaneous reign of Severus and of Caracalla;
after this reign, also, no writer speaks of the miracle in the
character of a witness.
* Luciua Septimus Severus, who acquired the imperial purple by pro­
claiming himself emperor when he commanded the Roman forces sta-
honed against the Barbarians on the borders of Illyrium ; to secure his
aim. he joined Albinus, who commanded in Britain, as his partner in the
empire. His first object was to depose Didius Julianas, who had pur­
chased the government, and who, being soon deserted by his dependents,
was assassinated by his own soldiers. At this time, however, another
rival for the purple existed in Pesuntius Niger; but, after many battles,
he also was defeated, and Severus left with no other rival than his part­
ner, who, however, soon fell beneath his fortunate sword at the plains
of Gaul, and he thus became sole master of the empire.
It was this emperor who built the wall across the northern parts of
our island, to defend his territory in Britain from the frequent invasions
of the Caledonians.
As a monarch he was tyrannical and cruel; and having risen by am­
bition, he maintained his power by severity, and by the unhesitating de­
struction ofevery one whom he thought likely, in any manner, to oppose
his inclination.
The restoration of the statue of Memnon, mentioned in the text, was
attempted during a progress made by Severus into the East with his
sons. He was recalled by a revolt in Britain, which he soon reduced;
but his triumph was sullied by an attempt of his son Caracalla to murder
him; an event which so much depressed his spirit, and added so cruelly
to his bodily sufferings from gout, that he died at York, A.D. 210, alter
a reign ofless than eighteen years—Ed.
M. Letronne adopts the conjecture,which refersthesounds
proceeding from the ruins remaining in their place after the
fall of the anterior portion of the statue, to the sudden dif­
ference of temperature between night and day. The mass­
Digitized by CjOOQle
288 ILLUSTRATIONS.
ive blocks with which, at a later period, it was loaded,
forced it, by their weight, to resist this influence. This pre­
tended miracle, therefore, thus confined in duration within
the limits of two centuries, he considers was not the result
of fraud, as the Egyptian priests did not attempt to attach
to it a religious importance.
This system is plausible ; sufficiently so, indeed, to tempt
one, on a cursory glance, to regard the problem as defini­
tively solved: on reflection, however, several grave objec­
tions present themselves.
First. The silence of Herodotus and of Diodorus furnish,
it is confessed, an argument of apparent weight; but it is
one of a negative character only. To make it conclusive, it
must be shown that, if the fact were true, these authors
could not have avoided making mention of it. But, in ex­
ploring a foreign country, some things may escape the at
tention of the observer; and, still more possibly, some of
those things which he has seen or been informed of may be
omitted in description. The learned of modem times have
had proofofthis in Egypt itself, when they visited that coun­
try with works of their predecessors in their hands. Fur­
ther, it was a history, not a description, that was written by
Herodotus. This distinction is important: description can
not be too complete, while history, passing by even interest­
ing details, gives prominency only to the principal features.
We will not take advantage of the exaggerated accusa­
tion with which Josephus stigmatizes Herodotus, as having,
through ignorance, disfigured the history of the Egyptians.
*
But Herodotus himself, in his journey to Memphis,! to He­
liopolis, and to Thebes, mentions that, fromwhat he had been
able to learn, he intended merely to notice the names of the
divinities. When an author thus fixes beforehand the limits
of the information he proposes to give, what argument can
be drawn by the critic from his silence respecting facts of
which he has declared his determination not to speak!
* Joseph., Adv. Apion., lib. i. f Herodot., lib. ii., cap. 3.
The plan of Diodorus, being on a still more comprehensive
scale than that of Herodotus, allows still less of detail. We
may observe, also, that this writer, who flourished in the
reign of Augustus, just concludes his work at the period
when, according to M. Letronne, the vocal powers of the
statue were well attested. He has not, however, spoken of
it. Is it fair to conclude, from his silence, something against
the reality of a lately ascertained fact, sufficiently singu­
lar to attract his attention 1 Certainly not; as his silence
Digitized by CjOOQle
ILLUSTRATIONS. 289
proves nothing against the real existence of the ancient and
well-known apparent miracle.
Secondly. M. Letronne looks on the passage from Mane-
thon, quoted by Eusebius, as an interpolation, merely be­
cause Josephus has omitted quoting it from the text of the
Egyptian priests ;
* yet, in a quotation otherwise exact, an
incidental phrase is frequently suppressed, if it do not bear
on the subject treated of, or if it tend to distract the read­
er’s attention from the point on which it is desirable to fix
it. Josephus had no concern in the identity of the stat­
ues of Amenophis and of Memnon; and as irrelevant to the
Jewish history, he has passed over these particulars in si­
lence. In fact, he expressly says, at the close of the quo­
tation, that for the sake of brevity he purposely omits many
things. This acknowledgment is sufficient to overturn M.
Letronne’s argument. The passage of Manethon exists as
it was quoted by Eusebius, who could have no object in
altering it. The vocal powers of the colossus and its form
were then facts known in the time of Ptolemy Philadelphus ;
thence they might be referred to a much earlier time, even
to the reign of Cambyses.
Thirdly. The mutilation of the colossus, falsely ascribed
to the Persian king, was, according to Strabo, the effect of
an earthquake; the same which, says M. Letronne, in the
twenty-seventh year of our era, overturned the whole of
Thebes. The Greek text ofEusebius confirms this opinion;
but the Armenian version corrects the exaggeration of the
extent of this disaster, limiting its effects to the suburbs.
An earthquake has at all times been a rare phenomenon
in Egypt; a circumstance proved by the number of ancient
edifices that, after the lapse of so many centuries, remain
standing in that country. The Egyptians, therefore, were
not likely to forget a catastrophe so fatal to their ancient
capital, and to a monument which was the object of national
veneration. Yet the terms are very vague in which the tes­
timony by Strabo respecting it is addressed. His words are,
“ It is said that the upper part was overthrown.”
The consideration which has been supposed to supplant
the theory which I combat, namely, that Strabo must have
witnessed the earthquake in the year 27 B.C.,t mentioned
by Eusebius, does not make his language the less extraor­
dinary. The expedition of ?Elius Gallus into Arabia took
place in the year 24 B.C., according to Dion Cassius ; and
* Joseph., Adv. Apion., lib. i.
t The Armenian versions of Eusebius place this event three years later,
the year 24 B.C.
II. T
Digitized by CjOOQle
290 ILLUSTRATIONS.
we must assign the same date to the journey of Strabo
when he visited Thebes in company with that general.
Would, we may inquire, such a judicious writer have ex­
pressed himself so incorrectly respecting a cotemporary
event; or one the traces of which must still have been ob­
vious after the interval of only two or three years 1
Again, how can we admit that, five hundred years after
the death of Cambyses, the mutilation of the colossus could
have been attributed to that prince, if it were really the ef­
fect of an earthquake, of which all Egypt must have been
aware, and must long have retained in their remembrance 1
Would the cotemporaries of Charles VII. have attributed the
fall of an edifice crumbling away before their eyes to the
ravages ofthe Normans, to whom Charles the Simple yielded
Neustrial The coincidence between the passages of Eu­
sebius and of Strabo is an hypothesis contrary to all probabil­
ity; and supported by no certain indication ; yet this forms
the foundation of M. Letronne’s theory.
WThat, I would ask, is the testimony of Strabo ’ He visits
the statue, hears the miraculous voice, and quits the spot
without further research, convinced that it is better to believe
any thing, than to admit that stones so disposed were capable
of producing sound ! This is the language of a witness too
prejudiced to allow of consideration for his opinions.
M. Letronne concludes that the vocal statue did not yet
bear the name of Memnon, because Strabo does not give it
that title. I do not think so absolute a conclusion may be
drawn from so simple an omission. It is already answered
in the passage from Manethon.
Fifth. M. Letronne believes that he can fix the epoch when
the miracle acquires celebrity by the date of the earliest in­
scriptions engraved on the colossus. We may consent to
his rejecting the authority ofDionysius Periegetes, by taking
advantage of the uncertainty respecting the time at which
the poetical geographer wrote. But we can not go along
with him in supposing that an historian such as Tacitus,
*
a man who, in his youth, had conversed with the cotempo­
raries of Pison and of Germanicus, would, in relating the
travels of that prince, insert facts which could not have been
observed till forty years afterward. In order to establish
the existence of so strange an inconsistency, it were neces­
sary to produce positive proofs; but none are brought for­
ward by M. Letronne.
Sixth. Shall we conclude, with M. Letronne, that the mi-
* Tacit., Annal., ii., cap. 61, and iii, cap. 16.
Digitized by Google
ILLUSTRATIONS. 291
raculous sound was not heard by Germanicus, because we
do not find the name of that prince inscribed upon the co­
lossus 1 Julius Gallus and Strabo both heard it, yet did not
engrave their names on the stone as witnesses.
Seventh. M. Letronne has rendered valuable services to
science, in collecting and deciphering the existing inscrip­
tions ; but does he not go too far in saying that the appa­
rent miracle had no religious interest attached to it, for the
natives, owing to the inscriptions being all Greek or Roman,
could not decipher them 1 and again, in supposing that their
dates fixed the duration of the sonorous property between
the reign of Nero and that of Septimus Severus 1
Was it possible that a phenomenon, to say the least of it,
surprising in itself, could either have existed for ages or been
suddenly discovered within the observation of the most su­
perstitious people in the world, and yet not have been sought
out and turned to advantage by those who traded in the cre­
dulity of men 1 This, indeed, would be a miracle without a
precedent in history, and, in its own way, no less aston­
ishing than the existence of a speaking stone. We have
traced the priest in every country to be the inventor of as­
sumed miracles, or having dignified with this name natural
facts often in themselves scarcely extraordinary. Wherever
the populace imagined they could discern the work of a god,
privileged men were not long in appearing to receive in the
name of that god the tributes of admiration and of gratitude.
The Egyptian priests were not likely to prove exceptions
where so singular a phenomena as the vocal statue invited
them to profit by it, even though by the Greeks and Ro­
mans it was revered under a name they did not acknowl­
edge, and which did not impart an idea of their own my­
thology to the credulous stranger. Thanks to the daily ap­
parent miracle, which could be produced in no other temple,
they were entitled to receive offerings on their altars and to
entertain respect for themselves.
But, it may be argued, they have celebrated it by no in­
scription. In Egypt, the walls of the temples, and even the
bodies of the statues, were loaded with hieroglyphics, the
sense of which is as yet imperfectly revealed to us. Can
we confidently affirm that none ofthe mysterious inscriptions
in the Memnonia make mention of the vocal properties of
the statue 1
Men not belonging to the sacerdotal order would not pre­
sume to supply the silence of the priests. The usurpation
of such a right was incompatible with the sentiment of re-
Digitized by UooQle
292 ILLUSTRATIONS.
ligious veneration, if we may judge ancient by modern man­
ners. The devotees might fill the temple of the saint, to
whom they believed themselves indebted for some benefits,
with their vows ; but to write on the statue itself, far from
being a testimony of their gratitude, would be a sacrilegious
profanation.
The Ptolemies introduced the worship of Saturn and of
Serapis into Egypt without being able to obtain permission
to erect temples in the interior of cities, either to one or the
other.
* But whether from policy or superstition, and far
from carrying this attempt on the national faith, the Lagidest
adopted both their worship and their traditions. The priests
then remained, as formerly, the guardians of the images of
the gods, and preserved them from the injury they might re­
ceive from indiscreet admiration. It was only under Au­
gustus that the assumed miracles of Egypt were revealed to
the disciples of a foreign religion, to whom they were then
for the first time entirely subjected. The first travelers who
visited Memnon abstained, nevertheless, from an act which
the natives, too recently subdued, would have regarded as
an outrage. The Greeks and the Romans thronging to the
shores of the Nile, gradually familiarized the people with
their propensity to recognize their own divinities in every
country. They pretended to remember Memnon; they had
heard him, and among them inscriptions were as allowable
to private individuals as to the priesthood. The inscriptions
multiplied, sometimes owing to superstition, sometimes to
the pleasure of confirming the existence of a peculiar phe­
nomenon which might be doubted by those who were not
themselves able to verify it. Vanity also played its part.
No one could have been in Upper Egypt without boasting
of having heard Memnon. These motives were gradually
* Macrob., Saturn., lib. L, cap. 7.
f The Ptolemies were named Lagides, from the surname Lagus being
imposed on the first of their race, owing to the following tradition con­
nected with his birth. Arsinse, the daughter of Meleager, having had a
disgraceful intercourse with Philip of Macedon, was, in order to cover
her disgrace, married to Lagus, a Macedonian of low birth, but opulent
Lagus, as soon as the child was born, exposed it in the woods, where, says
the tradition, an eagle sheltered him under her wings and fed him with
her prey. Lagus, having had this prodigy divulged to him, adopted the
infant and called him Ptolemy, from an idea that, having been so mirac­
ulously preserved and nurtured, he would become a great and powerful
man. The supposition became true; for, after the death of Alexander,
one of whose generals Ptolemy had been, at the general division of the
Macedonian empire, the governmentof Egypt and Libya fell to the share
of Ptolemy, who, after he had ascended the Egyptian throne, preferred
the title of Lagides to every other appellation; and it was transmitted to
all his descendants anterior to the reign of Cleopatra.—Ed.
Digitized by kjOOQle
ILLUSTRATIONS. 293
weakened by the number ofvisitors. The difficulty ofbeing
raised sufficiently high to find a space for the reception of
new inscriptions
* caused this custom also to cease after the
death of Severus and of Caracalla; and other causes, inde­
pendent of the duration of the miracle, may have contribu­
ted to the same effect. To presume a necessary connection
between that duration and the date of the latest inscriptions
is to suppose that every witness must have written on the
colossus, and, consequently, that the number of witnesses
was not greater than that of the names preserved in the
seventy-two inscriptions collected by M. Letronne, which
are inadmissible consequences, and proofs that the principle
itself is erroneous.
History is silent respecting the restoration ofthe colossus,
and, consequently, it does not indicate the date. The fact
is established by the existence of the remains of the blocks
placed upon the ancient base; and it appears that Lucian
and Philostratus were acquainted with it, as they express
themselves to the effect that, in their times, the statue was
entire. Let us only remark, that in admitting their testi­
mony, we must not mutilate it; the miraculous voice of the
colossus is mentioned by both; thus, contrary to M. Le-
tronne’s opinion, the apparent miracles must have continued
after the restoration of the sacred image.
Lucian died in the reign of Marcus Aurelius, and Juvenal
in that of Adrian ; the restoration of the statue, consequent­
ly, must be placed between these two epochs ; and it must
have been the work of Adrian or of Antoninus.
This opinion M. Letronne will not admit to be correct, for,
according to his theory, Severus must have been the author
of the restoration, in order to make the silence of the god
coincide with the date of the last inscriptions. But, how­
ever little weight we may attach to the testimony of Phi­
lostratus, it certainly refutes this hypothesis. In addressing
a tale, or rather a legend, to a superstitious empress, would
Philostratus have placed the restoration of the colossus, an
act not only eminently religious, but executed by the reigning
emperor, in the times of Domitian or of Titus 1 Would the
author of a work dedicated to Queen Anne of Austria have
* The height of the statue was about thirty feet; and on the legs of it
only the inscriptions, in Latin and Greek, were engraven. Most of them
belong to the period of the early Roman emperors. There is a copy of
this statue in the British Museum, but it does not exceed nine feet six
inches and a half in height. The head of the colossal Memnon, also in
the British Museum, is not that of the vocal Memnon. There were, in­
deed, many colossal statues called Memnonian in Egypt, but only one
celebrated vocal Memnon.—Ed.
Digitized by Google
294 ILLUSTRATIONS.
conducted a cotemporary of Francis I. or of Henry II. to the
celebrated procession of the vow of Louis XIII. 1
In default of historical testimonies to the effect that the
restoration took place under Septimus Severus, or in the
absence of the hieroglyphical scrolls where it might be
registered, M. Letronne asserts that, in imitation of Spar­
tian, the Emperor Severus avoided inscribing his name on
the monuments which he raised. But this assertion seems
only applicable to Roman monuments. M. Letronne him­
self instances certain Egyptian monuments on which Se­
verus had inscribed his own and the names of his children.
It is not, therefore, probable that he would omit placing it
on the colossus restored by his care.
M. Letronne conjectures that the unlooked-for silence of
the restored Memnon was the motive which prevented the
dedication by an inscription of this act of piety and vanity.
This suggestion lays too much stress on the silence of Spar­
tian,
* Herodotus, and Diodorus respecting a fact so notorious
as the restoration of the colossus, especially in an account
of that prince’s travels in Egypt, and his visit to the statue
of Memnon. So strange a silence would astonish us much
more if the cessation of a prodigy so long admired had im­
mediately succeeded the restoration of the statue. Would
not these writers have spoken of it were it only as a fatal
presage 1 It would have been so natural for superstition to
connect with it the rapid extinction of the race of Septimus
Severus! ,
* jElius Spartianus, a Latin historian; but he is not esteemed either as
a historian or a biographer.—Ed.
In conclusion, I believe we may consider it as fully dem­
onstrated, that if the vocal statue was overturned by an
earthquake (and not by the fury of Cambyses), it was not
the earthquake which Eusebius places as having occurred
in the year twenty-seven or twenty-four before our era; and,
consequently, that M. Letronne’s theory is raised upon a de­
fective foundation.
Secondly. That the hypothesis of the restoration of the
statue having been effected by Severus is supported neither
by proofs nor by historical indication.
Thirdly. That it is not demonstrated that the statue of
Memnon became silent immediately after the commence­
ment of the reign of Severus and Caracalla; and if the pe­
riod at which the assumed miracle commenced is unknown,
we are equally ignorant of the still more recent period at
which it ceased.
Digitized by UooQle
ILLUSTRATIONS. 295
The cause of the prodigy remains in equal obscurity. M.
Letronne, as we have seen, adopts the explanation founded
on the expansion caused by the sudden change of tempera­
ture. To the objections we have already offered, we may
add the following:
First. That this variation of temperature could not recur
in a degree adequate to insure the sounds on several dif­
ferent occasions during the day, while it must be admitted
that the voice ofMemnon has been heard two and even three
times at different periods of the same day.
Second. It appears to me a gratuitous supposition that the
weight of the blocks that were placed on the base at the res­
toration of the colossus became the cause of its sudden si­
lence. The immense blocks of granite, the creaking of
which was heard at Camac, supported masses of greater
weight than the stones which must have served for the res­
toration of the colossus; and their almost spontaneous
sounding is beyond a doubt. As a general fact, the imposi­
tion of even a considerable weight, though it may arrest the
vibrations ofa body at the moment when it is actually sound­
ing, yet does not destroy the power of producing sound, but
generally changes its quality. The change becomes less
perceptible if the substance imposed forms one body with
the original, and ifit is ofthe same nature. Now, the blocks,
vestiges of which are still to be seen, are of a stone identical
with that of which the base of the statue is composed,
* and
they are almost equally sonorous.
* Maniteur, Mardi, 9 Octobre, 1838, Lettre de M. Nestor VHote d M. Le­
tronne.
Lastly, these blocks having been almost entirely over­
turned, and the colossus being nearly in the same state as
at the period of its first mutilation, would it not have re­
covered the voice which, in its restoration, it had lost 1
Was the apparent miracle, we may now inquire, produced
by fraud 1 I conceive that it was the result of a deception.
M. Letronne absolutely denies it. He concludes it impos­
sible that a subterraneous passage or cavity should have been
formed in the base of the statue several centuries after its
erection. The objection supposes that the apparent miracle
was not coeval with the erection of the statue ; yet the at­
tempt to prove this has failed. Why, adds M. Letronne, did
not Memnon cause himself to be heard every time that he
was visited'? I reply, because to deny occasionally, or to
defer the assumed miracle, excited a more lively curiosity,
and struck superstition with deeper awe, and inspired a more
Digitized by CtOOqIc
296 ILLUSTRATIONS.
profound respect than it would have done had it become fa­
miliar and of every-day occurrence.
At Naples, has not the pretended miracle of St. Januarius
been frequently deferred in order to serve the passions, the
caprice, or the interest of the priest 1
Mr. Wilkinson, an English traveler, has recently discov­
ered a sonorous stone situated under the knees of the colos­
sus. Behind this he discovered a cavity, which he con­
ceives to have been purposely made for the reception of the
man whose function it was to strike the stone and perform
the miracle. M. Nestor 1’Hote, a French traveler, ascer­
tained the existence of this harmonious stone under the knee
of the statue.
* It is of the same nature as the stone em­
ployed in its reconstruction, and produced, on percussion, a
sound similar to that of melted metal. The cavity behind
it is nothing more than an enormous fissure that rends the
seat of the statue from top to bottom. We are authorized
in concluding that it has not been made by design, and that
the sonorous stone was only one of the materials employed
in restoring it.
* Monitcur, No. do Mardi, 9 Octobre, 1838, Lcttrt de M. Nestor VHote A
M. Letronne.
t In whatever manner the sounds were produced, it is probable that,
as the priests were aware of the sounds still heard at Carnac from the
rocks on the cast bank of the Nile, they would take advantage of that
phenomenon to produce similar sounds from the colossal statue.—Ed.
This fair conclusion, while it overthrows the hypothesis
of Vandale, which we have already rejected, proves nothing
in favor of M. Letronne. Many other modes of performing
the pretended miracle might be found.!
If we inquire when the vocal properties of the statue
ceased, we find the thread of history broken. In the midst
of the disorders and dissensions that distracted the empire,
even after the accession of Constantine, the annalists had
few opportunities of reverting to an isolated prodigy, foreign
to the new religion whose tenets then began to predominate.
It was even with difficulty that the assumed miracle could
be renewed, and it was destined shortly to cease altogether;
as, by the succession of controversies arising between the
Christians and the Polytheists, religious frauds were often
brought to light, and when, at a later period, the dispersant
pagan priests, reduced to indigence, and exposed to perse­
cution, abandoned their temples and their images, all was
thenceforward deprived of the veneration of the people.
As too often happens at the end of the most conscientious
researches, we are constrained to acknowledge our igno-
Digitized by C>ooQle
ILLUSTRATIONS. 297
rance, being neither able to deny the existence of the as­
sumed miracle, to fix its duration, nor to give such an ex­
planation of it as would defy all objections.
The numerous examples of apparent miracles produced
by means of the science of acoustics authorize us to ascribe
this one to the skill of the priests, who never allowed a
singular fact to escape them without seizing on it and turn­
ing it to advantage. But of what nature was their interven­
tion here 1 How shall we explain a fraud, varied in certain
cases to render the miracle more imposing, but generally
performed in one way, in the light of the sun, in the open
air, and in the midst of witnesses, who presented themselves
in crowds to observe its effect, and which, nevertheless, was
never discovered 1 This, the real question, remains yet to
be solved.
Digitized by UooQle
Digitized by Google
GENERAL INDEX.
Abaris, the son of Seuthes, it, 107. Agnus Dei, sent to the Emperor of
Abbagumba, or Erkoom, £,92. | Constantinople, i., 199.
Abracadabra, a word employed to Agrigentum, a rock near, i., 56.
cure agues, L, 201. lAinos of the Kourila Islands, i., 90.
Abraxas, i., 199. Air rendered pestilential, ii., 133,134.
Abunde, who was also called HdrajAlamoot, account of, iL, 27.
[Albania, men described in, i., 89.
Albertus Magnus, account of, i., 250,
251.
1., 230.
Academy, St Petersburgh, aerolites
sent to, L, 48.
-------------of Sciences at Paris, phe­
nomenon vouched for by the, i.,
48.
Achilles, the blows ofj i., 52.
----------- Tatius, i., 67.
----------- , inconsistency of the spirit
of, i., 264.
Achro, sacrifices made to the god, i.,
107.
Acosta, Joseph, miracle mentioned
by, i., 276.
Adam, Peak of, at Ceylon, i., 56.
Adonis, the river of, and blood of,i.,
53.
JEetee, her reputation preserved as
an invincible magician, i., 142.
AlUan supposed a casual phenome­
non to be constant, i., 63.
---------accused of having exagger­
ated, L, 6L
Aerolites sent to St Petersburgh, i.,
48.
------------ , falling of frequent occur­
rence, i., 103.
—------ —, nature of, i., 46.
------------, soughtforby the Kicahans,
11., 102.
Aesculapius invoked in his temple, i.,
145.
--------------- , note on, worshiped as a
deity, ii., 90.
Africa, a parasol imported into, i.,
73.
Agamede, Theocritus’s account of, i.,
211.
-------------, what it signifies in the lan­
guage ofHomer, i., 141.
Agamemnon, dedicated a vessel of
stone, i., 54.
Agaric of the olive tree, L, 63.
Alchemy arose from ignorance of
true science, i., 192.
Alexander the Great employed the
Greek fire, ii., 195.
--------------, death of, attributed to
poison, ii, 114.
-------------, cause of the destruction
of his soldiers at Thebes, ii., 209.
--------------, the flowing of a spring in
the tentof considered us amiracle,
i., 102.
-------------- excited to deadly anger
by songs, ii., 73,74.
Ali, a miracle ascribed to him, i., 122.
Alladas, Sylvius,imitated the noise of
thunder, ii., 157.
Almanacs used to instruct the igno­
rant to read, i., 83.
Almond, the bitter, described, i., 69.
Alphourians or Haraforas of Borneo
and the Malay Islands, i., 90.
Althaea Cannabinaof Linnatus, L, 62.
Amalekites inured to magic, i., 118.
Amanita Muscaria is the Mucha-
more, ii., 19, 20.
Ambliopia, or double images, ii., 38.
Amethyst, a precious stone, i., 78.
------------- , figurative description of
i., 78.
Ammianus Marcellinus flourished in
the reign of Constantine, Julian,
and Valens, ii., 164.
--------------------------------, his account
of the failure to rebuild the Tem­
ple ofJerusalem, ii., 199.
Ammon, Jupiter, account of the
temple of, i., 233.
Amulet, definition of the term,L, 198.
Anamarana, ii., 29.
Anaxilaus of Larissa, L, 278.
Digitized by Google
300 GENERAL INDEX,
Anaximander, what he foretold, it, Arieni, traditions concerning the
140. | prophet ofthe, L, 117.
Anchurus, son of Midas, fable re- Aristeus of Proconesus describes
lating to, 1, 87. j pigmies, i., 89.
Adronicus, Emperor, threatened Arius, death of it, 121.
with an earthquake, it, 136. IArouates, some account of, ii, 76.
Androides, i, 249. Arsacides, a rock in the land ofi.. 54.
—--------- art of constructing,' Asbestos, the art of spinning and
known to the ancients, L, 253. I weaving the, L, 304.
Andros, miraculous fountain in, L, Asclepiades, ii, 110.
280. Asclepiodotus, i, 190, 284.
Animals, history of filled with de- Ashes that itnnntimeniifilv inflampl
tails apparently chimerical, i, 92.
Anis, the oil of i, 306.
Annius Manlius Torquatua, &&, ac­
count of, i, 24L
Anthropophagi U 72.
Ants, described by Herodotus as
larger than foxes, i, 66.
Aornos, where stood the sanctuary
of, i, 263.
Apollo, endemic diseases termed the
arrows of, i, 55.
-------- , water from the grotto of i,
171.
-------- , the priests of, i, 56.
Apollonius of Tyana denied that he
was one of the magicians, L, 116.
-------------- , his miracles admitted by
Justin, i, 142, 143.
-------------- , account of, as an assumed
magician, i, 133.
-------------- , note on, i, 243.
-------------- , he called a girl to life, ii,
111.
Apparition of the goddess-mother,
L, 259.
---------------of Cleonice, i, 265.
Apparitions of the dead, i., 260.
----------------produced in smoke and
air, i, 278.
Apple of Sodom, described by Jose­
phus, i, 63.
Apuleius, Lucius, account of i, 178.
Aqua de Toflana, ii., 118.
Arabs, gave themselves up to the
study ofmagic, L, 224.
Arcadia, tradition that Minerva was
born in, i, 107.
Arcadian colony, carried the wor­
ship of Hercules to Rome, L, 108.
Arcadians of Herea, joined in the
worship of Myagrus, i, 107.
Archelaus, the tower raised by,i,304.
Archimedes, L, 257.
Archytas, i, 244.
Argippcans are recognized as Mon­
gols, i, 91.
Argos in Aehaia, i, 71.
Ashes that spontaneously inflamed,
it, 184, 185.
Asp, may be tamed, accountof, i.,32L
Assassins, what tribe so named, ii.,
26.
Assisi St Francis of, i, 75.
Atalanta, fable oi i, 79.
Atesch-gah of Bakhou, iin 175.
Athar’vana, character of, ii, 172.
Atmospheric phenomena, ancient
use of, ii., 143.
Aubletia, verbena, L, 62.
Aulus Gcllius treats some narrations
as fables, i, 89, 256, 257.
Aurora, son of, i, 52.
Avernus, the Lake of described by
ancient writers, i, 64.
-----------, formerly exhaled pestilen­
tial vapors, i., 64.
Baal-zebud or Belzebuth, origin of
the name, i., 106.
Baaras, or Cynospastos, i, 185.
Babylonish numbers, i, 195.
Bacchus, note on, i, 78.
Bactria, founded by Nimrod, L, 117.
Baden, hot mineral springs of, i, 10L
Bailla, the, a figure of a dragon, ii,
256.
Bakhou, in Georgia, the perpetual
tires near, i, 97.
---------- , naphtha,springof, at, ii, 176.
Baldwin’s phosphorus, ii., 178.
Bambouk, the gold there collected by
washing, i, 68.
Barnacle goose, account of, i, 77.
Baroehebus, Son of the Star, i, 295,
296.
Barvas, or prophets of the Billhs, i,
170.
Baschkirs, their faith in the Black
Book, i, 133.
Basil, Emperor, i., 267.
Basle, a wine cultivated near, i, 71.
Bathenians, the chief of the, i, 140.
Baths employed in initiation, i, 293.
Batz, dragon of, ii., 241.
Buyle, a philosopher who has Ten-
Digitized by Google
GENERAL INDEX, 301
dtred the Greatest pervice to the’ Branehides, the oracle of, i., 171.
human intellect, i., 97. | Brazil, the gold-wathers of, L, 68.
Bedlcy, burning spring near, ii., 182.! Brocken, spectre of die, ii., 66, 67.
Brownies, description of the, 1, 139.
Brichtains, the Russians in Kamt-
Belladonna, its soporific power, it,
11, 12.
--------------- , its juice gained Mac­
beth's victory, ii., 12.
Bolus, monument of, i., 281.
Belzebuth, a god worshiped in Phoe­
nicia, L, 106.
Bendj6, a preparation of hyoscya-
mus, ii., 23.
Bethlehem offered a striking ex­
ample ofnatural objectsconverted
into prodigies, i., 59.
Beverages, preparation of, ii., 8.
Beyruss, Professor, anecdote of, L,
285.
Bezoar, miraculous powersof,ii., 102,
103.
Bishop of St George, act of his in­
sane son, it, 82. 83.
Black Books, generally descended by
inheritance, i., 133.
Blood of Nessus, ii., 187.
-—-—, marks of, preserved for cen­
turies, i., 147.
-------- of St Magdalene, i., 286.
.——_ the Swiss, i., 71.
—-------- bulls caused the death of
Midas, i., 71.
-------- , what it indicated on the al­
tars of temples, i., 286.
-------- of the bones of Bt Nicholas, L,
.288.
-------------the bones ofSt Thomas, i.,
288.
— ------ — St Januarius, i., 287.
— -------— St. Lawrence, t, 286.
-———■ St. Pantaleon, i., 287.
------------ the relics of St John the
Baptist i., 288.
Blue Sea, a favor attributed to the
spirit of the, i., 102.
Boa constrictor, once common in
Italy, ii., 239.
■---------- -------—•, bites of it not ven­
omous, i., 74.
Bohemians, gipsies so named, ii, 185.
Bochart's assertions, L, 70.
Bones, composition of, i.. 189.
-----— of St Nicholas, i, 288.
----- — ofSt. Thomas Aquinas, i, 288.
Boutan, L, 90.
Bradley, unextinguiahable fire of, ii.,
182.
Bramah, the adoration of, i., 204.
Brahmins, magical ceremonies per­
mitted «unong them, L, 119.
schutka are called, i., 72.
Buffon, quotation from, i., 187.
-------- allows the possibility of the
existence of steel mirrors for the
purpose of seeing vessels at a dis­
tance, L, 272.
Bukaw, the natives of, i., 90.
Bulimia, well known among the an­
cients. account of, L, 112.
Bull's blood, those who died in con­
sequence of drinking it, i., 71.
---------------- in the East, a poisonous
beverage callei1 by this name, L, 71.
-------eye, a small cloud so called, it,
142.
Burkout, wonderful stories related
of the, i., 61.
Bushmen of South Africa may be re­
garded as a race of pigmies, L, 90.
Byblos, an inhabitant of, explains the
phenomenon of the blood of Ado­
nis, i., 53.
Cabbala, ii, 178.
Cadet, M, of Metz, prediction of, it,
139.
Caeculus assumes to be the son of
Vulcan, ii.. 179.
------------, explanation of a magical
trick of, ii., 179,180.
Calaber, Q., i., 55.
Calchas, a prophet, note on, L, 162,
163.
Caligula, power of, against the ele­
ments, ii., 157.
----------- shot lightning against the
gods, ii., 157.
Callinicus knew the composition of
the Greek fire, ii., 194.
------------- of Heliopolis invented the
Greek fire, ii., 194.
Cambysee, his brother was supposed
to have died from drinking bull's
blood, 1, 71.
Camera obscura, L, 270.
Canaan, inhabitants of, incurred the
divine wrath by their use of en­
chantments, i., 118.
Candolle, M. de, note regarding him,
i., 98.
Cantharides, used in love philters, it,
41.
Canton, the province of, i„ 77.
CapeofGood Hope, storms at, in, 142.
Digitized by Google
302 GENERAL INDEX.
Circe, Agamede described as the ri­
val of, i, 142.
------- ■, account of her, ii, 14.
Citron, how efficacious, i, 308.
Clapperton, anecdote by, L, 202.
Clare, St, miracle attributed to her,
L, 75.
-------------, account of her, i, 75.
Claros, the oracles of the Colopho­
nians at, i, 171.
Cleonice, apparition of L, 265.
Clerks, professors of medicine for­
merly, ii, 96.
Clitheroe, anecdotes ofsome girls at,
it, 78.
Coals, walking on burning, £, 296.
Cloud, a picturesque designation giv­
en by the Africans to a parasol, i,
73.
Ccelius Rhodiginus, quotation from,
1., 76.
Colophonians, the oracle of the, i,
171.
Comnenus, Manuel, knew the com­
position of the Greek fire, ii, 192.
---------------, Anna, speaks of fire­
arms, ii, 192.
---------------> Alexis, employed the
Greek fire, ii, 192.
---------------, Anna, her account ofthe
Greek fire, ii., 192,193.
---------------, Alexis, howhe ascertain­
ed whether he should attack the
Comanes, i, 157.
---------------, Manuel, died as a monk,
11., 192.
Compass, mariner's, ii, 216,217.
------------ , long known to the an­
cients, ii., 220.
Comus, the juggler called, i, 154.
Condor, the American, i, 60.
Corfu, rock near the island of i, 54.
--------, rock near the vessel which
brought Ulysses back, i, 54
Cos, Temple of, ii., 92.
Cotugno discovered galvanism, ii,
223.
Cratisthenes, how spoken ofby Athe-
nseus, i, 276.
----------------- described as merely
being a skillful adept, i, 276.
Creusa killed by a poisoned robe, ii,
190.
Crickets, in Esthonia, not allowed to
be destroyed, i, 174.
Crocodile, large one killed near Cal­
cutta, ii., 2M
------------- , how one should be tamed,
i, 315.
Caracalla, death of, predicted, i, 307.
Carbuncle, legend respecting, ii, 247,
248.
Cardan indicated the mode of mak­
ing fireworks, ii, 196.
Caribbees, legend of the, respecting
dragons, ii, 247, 248.
Carolina, the marshes of that place
described, L, 64.
Casciorolus, Vincentius, discovered
the Bologna stone, ii., 178.
Caspian, well of naphthanear, ii, 176.
Cassia, i, 307.
Cassidorus, note on, i, 240, 241.
Catharine, St, body of laid on a
stone, i, 57.
Cat-mint, note on, i, 305.
------------, influence of, i, 305.
Cato, what he prescribed for disloca­
tions, ii., 101.
Catopleba, what it was, i., 93.
Cave of Trophonius, i, 242.
Cedron, Brook, a rock rising from
the middle of i, 57.
Ceres, remains of the temple of i.,
243.
Ceylon, Peak of Adam at, i, 56.
ChaerSmon, taught the art of invok­
ing the gods, L, 134.
---------------- , his instructions how to
command the genii i, 177.
Chaldaic oracles, ii, 170.
Chaldea, the cradle of astronomy, i,
206.
Chaldeans, the magic of the. i., 146.
Charlemagne, proscribed the Tem-
pestarii, ii., 146.
Chartomi, derivation of the word, i,
142.
Charybdis, whirlpool of, i, 62.
Chederles, an account of him, ii,
247.
Chevreuse, Duke of,confirmed Mme.
de Guyon’s fraud, ii., 71.
Child, birth ofan acephalous, not im­
possible, i, 91.
China, gunpowder long known in, i,
205.
--------, guns used in, ii., 205,206.
-------- , thunder chariots used in, ii.,
207.
Chiapa, Bishop of, i, 277.
Chong or Rice Wine, account of, i,
289.
Christ, the impression of the hand of,
i„ 58.
Cicero, remarks attributed to, i, 212.
Circe, her mysterious arts repre­
sented as purely natural, i., 142.
Digitized by C>ooQle
GENERAL INDEX. 303
Crocodile, tamed, i, 316.
-------———, sacred, i., 317.
[Diana, priestesses of, i., 296.
I Dion Cassius, account of, i, 44, 45.
Croesus. indication of the oracle of
Delphi concerning, i., 159.
Crusaders described by the Greeks
a~ men of brass whose eyes flashed
fire, i, 72.
Ctesias, saw experiments on light­
ning in Persia, ii., 173.
—------ speaks of a fountain in In­
dia filled annually with liquid gold,
i, 67.
— ------•, his accounts correct, but not
his expressions, i, 67.
Cumin, how employed, i, 306.
Cyclops made lightning and thunder
for Jupiter, ii., 208.
Cynocephali of Ctesias, i, 90.
Cyprus, the art of working iron car­
ried into the islands of, i., 128.
Cyrus the Younger, i, 209.
Dsedalus and Icarus, story of, i, 245.
Damascius, the expressions of, i, 189.
——— ----, account of, i., 192.
--------------- , who, i, 270.
Danaides, punishment of, L, 281.
Dance, St Vitus’s, ii., 80.
Darius, son of Hystaspes, i., 247.
Datura, its poison, ii., 12.
David, King, explosion at hia monu­
ment, ii., 198.
Deacon Poppon, i., 301.
Dead, apparitions of the, L, 260.
———, art of questioning the, i., 262.
- ---- —, invocations of the, i., 266.
----- —, power of recalling the, ii., 111.
.------- Sea, tho valleys of the, i., 63.
Death, the Valley of, account of the,
in Java, i., 65.
Dejanira, nature of her poisoned tu­
nic, ii., 187, 188.
------------ , note on, ii, 187.
Delphi, explosion at, ii., 201.
-------- , oracles of, i, 159.
Democrites devoted his life to ob­
serving Nature, i, 74.
Demons of the Mine, account of, i.,
110.
Demosthenes, the first author who
noticed the existence of sorcerers,
L, 208.
Devil appeared to Zoroaster, ii., 163.
Deviniere, La, i„ 58.
Dews, power of the, t, 124.
Diana, divers names for, L, 230.
------ —, goddess, i, 54.
———, endemic diseases termed the
arrows of, L, 55.
Dionysius of Halicarnassus imitated
lightning, ii., 157, 158.
Diorama, effect produced by a, L,
258.
Dioscurus, the apparition of, i, 57.
Distillation, art of, introduced into
I Asia Minor, &.c., i, 291.
Distilling, artof, known to the Thau-
maturgists, i., 288.
------------, practiced in Hindostan, Ne-
paul, &.C., i, 288.
----------- , how received by the Na-
gals, i, 289.
Divining rod, note on, i, 197.
|Divination, the gift bestowed by
Apollo, i., 161.
Dodona. oracles proceeded from the
oaks of, i, 168.
Dogs, intluence of harsh sounds on,
i, 312.
Douarnanez, marine ruins in the bay
of, i., 105.
Drac, its meaning, ii., 252, 253.
Dragon, one destroyed by St. Ju­
lian, ii, 241.
------------of St George, legend con­
cerning the, ii., 245, 246.
----------- , legend of the, crept into
Christianity, ii.. 249.
----------- ■, every parish had one, ii,
256.
------------, that of Poitiers canonized,
ii., 256.
------------of Thespia, annual sacri­
fices to, ii., 259.
Dragons, winged i, 51; it, 237.
----------- , notes upon, ii., 237-275.
------ —— are mere emblems of in­
undations, ii., 242.
------------, legend ofthe Caribbees re­
garding, ii., 247, 248.
------------, stones taken from their
heads, ii, 248.
------------, often overcome by con­
demned men, ii., 257, 258.
Drugs, preparation of, ii., 8.
Druidesses ofSena, pretended to al­
lay storms, ii, 144.
-------------- , art attributed to the, L,
Druidical fire, ii, 179,180.
Druids, magic known to the, L, 119.
Duergar, traditions concerning the,
i, 140.
Dyer, Mrs., accused of witchcraft,
ii, 56.
Digitized by Cjoogle
304 GENERAL INDEX.
Earthquake, a rare phenomenon in
Egypt, ii., 289.
Ecstasy, account of, ii., 72.
Eddystone, rock of in the land of
Arsacides, L. 54.
Egyptian priests sole possessors of
the complete knowledge of hiero-
glypliics, L, 183.
Egyptians little affected at the sight
ot balloons, L, 38.
Elijah, Ccelius Rhodiginus attempts
to explain his translation into
heaven, L, 76.
Elis, miracle performed in, 1, 280.
Elysius of Therina, L, 265.
Emblems, figure of the serpent in,
it, 252.
Empedocles, what happened to, ii.,
93, 94.
Fez, a little hill in the kingdom of f,
Fifes or Fairies, famed as excelling
in the artofworking metals, i., 137.
Figurative style clothes facte in su­
pernatural coloring, i., 73.
Fins acquainted with the treatment
of metals, t, 129.
Fire-worshipers at Bakhou, ii., 175.
—--------------------ofPietramala, L, 97.
Fire, Greek, Langles’s account of
ii., 204.
------, perpetual, at Atesch-gah, L, 97.
----- , trials by, endured by Zoroaster.
L, 293.
------, eating burning, L, 295.
—— darts and balls, ii., 204.
Firmus, how, escaped crocodiles, L,
Endor, the witch of i., 167.
Engastrimythee, why this name was
given to the Pythi®, L, 167.
Epimenides, stories related of, ii., 107.
Eresicthon, story of, i., 112.
Erick-le-bon, who, ii., 73, 74.
Eternal City, advice given to travel­
ers in the vicinity of, L, 76.
Etna, substances thrown up by it in­
flame spontaneously, ii., 186.
Etruscans instructed by the Lydians,
i., 177,178.
Eunus, account of, i., 295.
Euthymus, combat of, with Lybas,
i., 148.
Euryale, one ofthe Gorgons, it, 165.
Eustathius, note on, i., 275.
Evander raised an altar to the god
of Meroe, i., 108.
------------, account of, L, 178.
Exhalations, deleterious, from a sa­
cred grotto, t, 285.
Experience has proved that the
blood of bulls contains no delete­
rious property, i., 71.
Eymeric, his work, it, 31.
Fancourt, Miss, cured of a spine dis­
ease by prayer, ii., 81.
Fairies, derivation of the word, de­
scription of, L, 138.
Falsehoods and prodigies joined to
impropriety of expression more
striking when proceedingfrom an­
cient authors, t, 66.
Fates would not permit Troy to be
taken, i., 79.
------- consulted at Venice, i., 79.
------- consulted by Tarquin, L, 159,
160.
Flamen, the gods to whom he ap­
pealed, L, 137.
Flies, the presence of in Phoenicia,
amounts almost to a plague, i, 106.
------, Myagrus, god of, Jupiter Apo-
myios, god of, L, 106.
Forbes, anecdote related by, L, 322.
Forespoken water, it, 52.
Fountain, water ofwhich coagulates,
------------, miraculous, in Andros, i.,
280.
------------, miraculous, at Rome, L,
280.
------------of Hero, i., 281.
------------ofWieres, ii., 125.
Francis, St, of Assisi, account of
him, L, 75.
Gaffarel, the collection of, L, 203.
Galvani, account of ii., 224.
Ganges, crocodile of the, account of
L, 309.
Gargouille, the dragon of Rouen, ii.,
257.
Gassendi, sagacity of L, 175.
Gelatophyllis, perhaps a datura, iL,
Genghis Khan, Tartar hordes led on
by, i., 156.
------------------- , where he flourished.
i., 273.
Genii, ii., 64.
------- , who were the evil, L, 121.
——, some conjured in the Egyp­
tian, others in the Persian lan­
guage, i., 136.
------- , their habitations, L, 181.
------- of the earth, air, and fire, L.
218.
Digitized by C>ooQle
GENERAL INDEX. 305
Genii, the care of the parts of the
body divided among, it, 91.
------- metamorphosed into serpents,
i, 321.
Genius of the empire appeared to
Brutus, ii., 64.
Gerbcrt, his construction of a brazen
head, L, 251.
Germain, account of him, L, 75.
Gbelongs, heads of the, closely shav­
ed, i., 91.
Giambatista Porta, account of,t,249,
250.
Gimbernat, Mr., remarks on the Zoo­
gene, i., 101.
Gipsies, ii., 212.
Gitanos, what people so called, L,
150; ii., 186.
G1editsch, saw the ghost of Mauper-
tuis, ii., 84.
Glycas, speaks of a shower of quick­
silver in the reign of Aurelian, L,
44, 45.
-—---- verylittleknown ofhim,i.,45.
Gnomes, description ofthe, i., 139.
Gnoo, described by ASlian. i., 93.
--------, brindled, inhabitant of South­
ern Africa, L, 93.
Gold legend, i., 67.
------ of Bambouk, tempered with
iron and emery powder, i., 68.
Gorgons, who they were, ii., 165.
------------ , supposed to be ships, ii,
165.
Gothic women, account of, i., 119.
Gout, spring brings periodical re­
turns of, L, 65.
Gralon, King, tradition how he was
saved, L, 105.
Grangue, near sandy mountains con­
taining gold dust, L, 67.
Greatracks, an Irish quack, ii., 80, 81.
--------------- , Flamstead touched by
him, ii., 80.
---------------, Lady Conway a believer
in, ii., 80.
Greece, attached itself to African tra­
ditions only, L, 107.
Greek fire, ii., 191, 192,195.
-------------- invented by Callinicus, ii.,
194.
-------------- supposed to be gunpow­
der, ii., 203.
Grignoncourt devastated by a vio­
lent hail-storm, t, 46.
------------------- Neufchateau, in the
department of the Vosses, i., 46.
Gryphus, great vulture ofthe Andes,
L, 60.
H.
Guinea worm, account ofit, L, 66.
Gunpowder, compositions similar
to, ii., 197.
-------- - —, invention ofj ascribed
to Visvacarma, ii., 204.
---------------- known to the magi, ii_
197.
---------------- long known in China,
ii., 204.
Guyon, Madame de, confession of,
11., 70.
Gypaetus barbatus, bearded griffon
of the Alps, i., 60.
Hagiographers,miracle promulgated
by them, i., 104.
Hagno, fountain of, ii., 143.
Hail-storms, securities against, it,
148, J 49.
Halleh or Hhuleh, a town on the Eu­
phrates, L, 51.
Haliiatoris, used in Persia to enliven
a feast, i., 68.
--------------- , able to counteract the ef­
fect of wine, i., 69.
Harz Mountains, spectre of the, ii.,
66.
HaschichG, a preparation ofhemp, ii.,
21.
Hay ricks, how spontaneously con­
sumed, ii., 180.
Healing springs, ii., 93.
Heat, the agency of, to what it be­
longs, i., 284.
Heaven, translation of Elijah into, L,
76.
Hebrew, in this language the word
milk signifieda somniferous drink,
1., 69.
Hecate, the statue of, i., 278.
Hellebore, its cure, ii., 88.
Hemp, its intoxicating quality, ii., 21.
Herbatilicum, the cause of its being
swallowed up, i., 104.
Hercules, passage of cattle conduct­
ed by, i., 56.
------------, death of, it, 187.
—--------- , composition of the fire
which killed him, ii., 188.
------------, the blood in which his ar­
rows were dipped, i., 71.
------------ invoked the god Myagrus,
L, 106.
------------the Serpent, L, 106.
-------- -
------------------—, the constella­
tion ofthe equinox represented by,
L, 107.
-----——, Rimamed latricos, or the
able physician, it, 93.
U
Digitized by C>ooQle
306 GENERAL INDEX.
Innocents, Cimetidre des, blossom of
a hawthorn in, L, 102.
Insitor, L, 137.
Intoxication, Greek and Persian
drank much without suffering, L
68.
Invocation, decline of the art of m
Greece, L, 265.
-------------- , the art of in Italy, L, 265t
lodhan-Moran, L, 152.
Iphigenia, sacrifice of, L, 163.
Iphis and Csenis, fable of them, L, 96.
Herod opened the tomb of David
and .Solomon, ii., 198.
---------, his descent into David’s
tomb, ii., 198.
Herodotus, quotation from, L, 66.
Hervorar Saga, L, 262.
Hevdens, people so called, L, 150; it,
186.
Hhuleh or Halleh, a town on the Eu­
phrates, L, 51.
Hibbert, anecdote related by him, iL,
78.
Highlanders, superstitions of, ii., 65.
—-------------, second sight of, ii., 65.
Hinan-yuan, singular chariot of iL,
222.
Hindoo mythology, t, 119.
Hindoos, acquainted with lightning
conductors, ii., 173.
------------, custom of placing a per­
fumed pastille in their mouths, L,
68.
Hindostan, what diseases known on
the coast of, i., 66.
- ■ — -——, belief existing in, L, 119.
Hippolytus de Marsilies, iL, 31.
Hippomanes, its power, L, 310.
Hirpi, i„ 296.
Hohenlohe, Prince, impositions of
iL, 81.
Homer, his many fables merely nat­
ural facts, aggrandized by poetical
conception, i., 62.
Horse of Tiberius of Rhodes, ii., 151.
Hussites, the celebration of the ex­
communication of the, L, 151.
Hydrostatics, L, 239.
Hyphasis, uuextinguishable oil made
at, ii., 195.
Is, town of, i., 105.
Isaac Comnenus, Emperor, anecdote
of, i., 103.
Idyl of Theocritus, the second, i., 210.
lamblichus, arranges the genii into
two divisions, i., 134.
Ice, account of it produced in a ves­
sel at a great heat, i., 135.
Ida, River of, change of color of, i., 53.
Imagination, influence of ii., 63.
----------------, definition of ii., 63.
----------------warmed to delirium, iL,
75.
Justinian, the Emperor, L, 80.
Jael, note on Sisera and, L, 70.
Jakoutes, prone to ecstasy, ii, 71.
James, King, a believer in witchcraft,
iL, 53.
Janus, Numa consecrated a temple
under the name of L, 108.
------- , a symbolical representation of
the year, i., 108.
Jerusalem, temple of could not be
rebuilt, ii, 199, 200.
-------------- , temple of protected from
lightning, ii., 162.
-------------- , attempt by Julian to raze
the temple of, i., 213.
--------------,not struck by lightning
during a thousand years, ii., 162.
Jethro, mosque of L, 51.
Jewel, Bishop, preached against
witchcraft, iL, 56.
John of Salisbury, when he lived, L,
274.
Jouin, St, the mare of, L, 57.
Julian, efforts of to raze the temple
of Jerusalem, L, 213.
Juno, temple of protected from light­
ning, iL, 154.
------ , Milo, high priest of i„ 82.
Jupiter Cataibates, origin of the sur­
name, iL, 159.
--------- , miracle attributed by Mar­
cus Aurelius to, L, 103.
--------- , fiction that stones were rain­
ed by, i., 103.
--------- Elicius, ii, 160.
--------- Apomyios, worshiped by the
Eleans, L, 106.
---------Ammon, temple of L, 233.
--------- , transformations of L, 273.
Imitation, force of, ii.. 78.
-------------, anecdote of its power, ii.,
78.
Imporcitor, i., 137.
India, Ctesias speaks of a fountain in,
i 67
Kaleidoscope, note on, IL, 227.
Kamtschatka, the name ofBrichtains
still given to the Russians in, L, 72.
Kea-soum, what, L, 288.
Key, the cures of the, i., 232.
------of St. Hubert, L, 232; ii., 98.
Digitized by tjOOQle
GENERAL INDEX. 307
Key of St. John, i., 232. I Lightning, conductors of, reproba-
Khivans, complicated calculations ted by St. Bernardin, ii., 153.
made from pieces of wood by, i.,. Llorente. who, ii., 45.
Lot, division of angels by, i., 155.
—suggestion ofPlato regarding the
contraction of marriages by, i., 156.
Lybas, sacrifice to the manes of, i_
148.
Kicahans, subjects of the Burmese,
ii., 102.
Klaproth, M. Jules, describes the No­
gais Tartars, i., 91.
Kongx, Um, Pans, i., 227.
Kraken, we may disbelieve all that
has been related of the, i., 61.
Krishna, the god, definition of the
name, L, 178.
Kurdes, or Ali-Oulahies, L, 122.
Labyrinth of Crete, L, 245.
-------------of Egypt, i.. 247.
La Charente, the department of, i.,
58.
Lachryma Batavica, ii., 227.
Lactantius, note on, i., 267.
Laguna, Andre, physician to Pope
Julius, ii.. 44.
Lammer Geyer, the eagle ofthe Alps,
L, 60.
Lamp, miraculous account of the oil
of one, i., 283.
--------, perpetual, L, 283.
- , common invention concern­
ing, i., 284.
Lapis Memphiticus, ii., 28.
Laplanders, described as pigmies, L,
89.
Larcher, turns the accountofCtesias
into ridicule, i.. 67.
Larysium, the Mount, t, 128.
LatacG, explanation of i., 69.
Laurels, protectors against lightning,
11., 152.
Law. Hindoo, account of the, ii., 122.
Lead, molten, poured on Zoroaster,
1., 298.
------ , substitute for, i., 302.
Leibnitz penetrated into a secret so­
ciety at Nuremberg, i., 220.
Lenoir, his opinions on dragons as
emblems, ii., 237.
Lerna, the blood of the hydra of, i.,
71.
Lethe, waters of, ii., 8.
Letronne, M., his opinions of the stat­
ue of Memnon, ii., 287, 288.
Letters, governed by angels, L, 201.
-------- -, Runic, i., 202.
Libanus, Mount, composed of red
earth, i., 53.
Lightning, various means to guard
against, ii., 151, 152.
-------------, custom ofproving, ii., 153.
Lydus, the sacred books ofthe Etrus­
can priests often quoted by, i., 113.
Macrisius, Ids relation of an enor­
mous hail shower, i., 48.
Madelaine, St., the print of her right
foot, L, 58.
Magi, the star which guided them, L,
59.
------ , wonders performed by the, i_
209.
—---- should be distinguished from
wizards, 1, 231.
Magic, name applied, to the art of
working wonders, L, 43.
--------, for some time the world was
governed by, i, 115.
—-— originated from researcliea
into the occult qpence. L, 115.
--------, name given by the Greeks to
the science which they learned
from the Magi, i, 116.
--------, established in Bactria by Nim­
rod, L, 117.
--------, Cassien speaks of a treatise
on, i., 117.
--------, the highest consideration in
Hindostan given to, 1,118, 119.
-------- acquired by Joseph in Egypt,
L, 118.
--------, the mysteries of, known to
Pharaoh's wife. L, 118.
-------- known to the Druids under
the name ofoccult sciences, t, 119.
--------, Voeleurs or Volveurs, priest­
esses well versed in, i., 119.
------—, arts which come into com­
mon use may pass for, i., 128.
--------, the works of, much circum­
scribed withinthe limits ofscience,
i, 130.
--------, those ridiculed by Apollonius
ofTyana who expected to gain by
tile ends ol‘ i., 130.
--------, how the mystery is removed
from, i., 143.
--------, severe laws Issued against, by
the Franks and Visigoths, i., 225.
Magical performances much more
useful to the priest than prodigit a,
i., 114.
Digitized by C>ooQle
308 GENERAL INDEX.
Meteorology, limited information in,
it, 141.
Mexico, traditions of the people who
emigrated from, L, 72.
Michaelis, his explanation of several
explosions, ii., 198.
-------------, account of, i., 177.
Midas, king of Phrygia, how he died,
i., 71.
Milo of Croton, 1, 82.
Mines supposed to be inhabited by
genii, i., 141.
Miners supposed to be destroyed by
demons, i., 109.
---------, what was said of the genii,
might hold good of the, L, 141.
Miracle on the attempt to rebuild the
temple of Jerusalem, ii., 199, 200.
Miracles, apparent, have been pro­
duced by the science, or by the ad­
dress ot able men, i., 49.
------------ at St. Petersburgh, i., 282.
Mirme, head of L, 251.
Misletoe, account of the, i., 229, 230.
Missouri, the people who dwell in
the burning mountains north of,
L, 72.
Mnemosyne, waters of, il, 8.
Mochus, who were his descendants,
i., 142.
Mohammed, ascended to heaven, L,
85.
---------------- , impression of the head
of L, 57.
---------------- , why did he refuse to
work miracles ? L, 127.
---------------- , what species of divina­
tion used in the time of 1,156.
---------------- , account of, L, 223.
Mongolia, an army ofrebels pursued
in, L, 102.
Morat, Lake of, extraordinary ap­
pearance of i., 98.
Moses possessed some knowledge of
electricity, ii., 162.
Mother of the Water, description of
it, 272.
Moudela, crocodile, i., 309.
Mountain of the Hand, i., 58.
Muchamore, plant of, it. 19.
Music, the influence of, i., 170.
--------, the power of on animals, L,
311.
- ------ , cats agreeably affected by, L,
312.
Myagrus, the god, invoked by Her­
cules, i., 106.
Myope, the plant, occasions blind­
ness, ii., 126.
Magician, fate ofa female, L, 130.
Magicians, power ofthose in the Isles
of S6na, it, 91.
------------- , priest, it, 95.
Magnet, its attractive power known
to the ancients, ii., 216.
Magnetic sleep, it, 82.
Magnus, Albertus, note on,L,250,251.
------------------------, his description of
two processes, i., 301.
------------------------ possessed a stone
for attracting serpents, i., 329.
Marcomans, war against the, i, 103.
Marcos, miracle by, 1, 285.
Marieus passed himself off for a god,
L, 306, 307.
Marses, the gift they pretended to
possess, t, 325,326.
Marsian priests made to collect ser­
pents, L, 326.
Martineau, Miss, her cure, ii., 81.
Marum, note on, influence of, 1,305,
306.
Mash Allah, what, ii,, 16.
Maupertuis appeared as a ghost to
Gleditsch, it, 84.
Maximus the Cynic, ii., 184.
-------------of Turin, i., 231.
-------------the Theurgist, L, 278.
Mecca, shower of stones at the foot
of the walls of i., 104.
Medals, legends discovered on, il, 161.
Medea, poison used by her, ii., 190.
---------, poisoned robe sent by her to
Creusa, it, 190.
---------, oil of, ii., 190.
---------.renewal of the youth of
jEson by, i., 145.
---------, how her mysterious arts
were represented, i., 142.
Medina, a grotto near, i., 57.
Medusa, one of the Gorgons, it, 165.
Memnon, opinions respecting the
sounding of the statue of i., 253-
255; ii., 277.
------------, statue of, it, 275-297.
----------- fell beneath the blows of
AchDles, L, 52.
------------, ancient inscriptions on, il,
280.
Memnon, oracle connected with, it,
281, 282.
Memphis, situation of 1, 216.
-------------, stone of, il, 28.
Menelaus, Greeks bound to him, 1,
162.
Mendes, note on, L, 230, 231.
Meroe, locality of determined, i., 107.
Metal, fusible, i., 302.
Digitized by C>ooQle
GENERAL INDEX. 309
Mystery, custom of, i.. 216.
Mythology, Greek, did not admit one
deity to interfere in the schemes
of another, L, 130.
Nadogssis, ignorant of ciphers, 1,
201.
————, a religious society, ii., 10.
Nsevius, the augur, L, 159.
-----------, his talent as an augur ap­
peared from infancy, i., 175.
Nagals, how the art of distilling was
received by, i., 289.
Naguals,power ascribed to the, 1,277.
Naphtha, its abundance and use at
Bakhou, ii., 175, 176.
------------, native, brought from the
Caspian, ii., 176.
Navigators, French and English de­
ceived, i., 54.
Natural physics employed by ma­
gicians, ii., 147.
Nazareth, the mark of the Virgin
Mother’s knee near, i., 57.
Nebuchadnezzar, method of decis­
ion, L, 156.
Nekyomantion, introduction of
Achilles into a, i., 264.
•-------------------
—■, Virgil’s description
of a, i., 265.
----------------------, Pausanias driven to
a, L, 265.
Nelson, Lord, monument to, on the
Calton Hill, i., 55.
Nepenthes of the Greeks, account of,
ii., 15.
Nessus, blood of, ii., 187.
Occult Science, lustre added by Zo­
roaster to the, L, 125.
Odin regarded as the inventor of
magic in Scandinavia, note on, i.,
119.
---------, misnamed, L, 71.
Newton, Sir Issaac, anecdote of, it,
143.
Nicasius, Pt,Bishop of Rheims, i., 51.
-----------, Church oq t, 51.
Niobe, t, 55.
Nipa palm-tree, t, 289.
Nonacris, the water of, it., 117.
------——, account of, it, 117.
Nonnosus regarded as a narrator of
fables, i., 80.
Numa drew lightning from the
clouds, ii., 155.
--------, the books of, L, 183.
Obarator, i., 137.
Obsequens, Julius, L, 94.
Occator, i., 137.
Occult Science, its use in removing
the mystery of magic, t, 143.
---------------------, unknown to Moham­
med, i., 128.
------ possessed of a speaking head,
i., 251.
Odors, influence of, it, 36.
CEnomaus, king of Pisa, killed by his
son-in-law, ii., 159, 160.
-------------- , note on, ii., 159, 160.
Oil of Medea, a poison, ii., 190.
— ofvitriol, i., 290.
---- , fraudulent practices with, 1,282.
-—, unextinguishable, whence ob­
tained, ii., 196.
---- ■, miraculous overflow of, i., 283.
---- produced from common salt, L,
290.
Old Man of the Mountain, account
of, ii., 21.
Ololuchqui, account of, ii., 40.
Olympia, the statue of Milo in, £, 82.
Olympic games, £, 106.
Onoccntaur, what is designated by,
L, 92.
---------------- resembles the Chim­
panzee, 1., 92.
Ophiogenes in Cyprus, i., 325.
Ophiusa, a plant of Ethiopia, ii., 19.
Opium, power of, il., 106.
Oracle, belief in an, by Baro, i., 159.
-------- of Delphi, indication of, con­
cerning Croesus, i., 159.
Oracles, history of, i., 160.
----------, account of the ancient, L,
163-165.
----------Chaldaic, it, 170.
-------- - of Dodona, L, 168.
Ordeal of heat, L, 297, 298.
--------- by fire, early known in
Greece, t, 299.
--------- of boiling water, 1., 300.
--------- of exposure to ferocious
beasts, L, 306, 307.
--------- of swimming among croco­
diles, L, 308.
--------- of poisons, ii., 122.
Organs, not unknown tothe ancients,
L, 248
Origen, account of i., 155.
-------- , opinions advanced by, i., 155.
Orose, Paul, i., 280.
Orpheus represented as versed in
magic, t, 142.
------------, note on, i., 184.
--------—, historical explanation of
the fable of, i., 263.
------------, account of, ii., 36.
Digitized by C>ooQle
310 GENERAL INDEX.
Orphic mysteries. i., 184. tPietrarnala, the fires of, in Tuscany,
Usages, magicians among the, i., 150.i L, 97.
Osceilatoria nibcsccns, what was Pigeons, carrier, i., 315.
caused by the development of i,----------dung, burned the Church of
99.
Ossian, a comparison of his son’s
sword to flame, ii., 179.
Oupnek'-hat, passage of, it, 172.
Oxus. wells dug in the vicinity ofthe,
L, 102.
Pachymerus, assertion of, L, 300.
Pactulus, wonderful stone found in
the, L, 248.
Paracelsus, note on, ii., 97.
Paragreles, ii., 148.
Paragrandines, security against hail,
it, 148.
Pausanias, his initiation, ii., 39, 40.
Paw, ii., 135.
Petrna, Francis, who, ii., 32.
Pelops, accessory to the death of
(Enomaus, ii., 159,160.
Pentheus, note on, ii., 38, 39.
Perfumes, use of, by the ancients, ii.,
36.
Perkinism, account of. ii., 82.
Persian Greeks listened eagerly to
the magi, i., 209, 210.
Persians, exulted in being able to
drink much without guttering in­
toxication, i.. 68.
Peter, the River of St., L, 72.
Petersburg!), St, pretended miracle
at, i., 282.
Petronius Arbiter, his romance, ii.,
9.
Phantasmagoria, now only restored,
not invented, i., 268.
•----------------------, account of that
brought out in London, i., 268,269.
Pisa, ii., 180.
Pigmies described by Ctesias, i., 90.
——•--- ■, supposition of the ancients
concerning them, n, 91.
Pisa, Church of, how set on fire, ii.,
180.
Pliny discusses proper methods for
preventing a rtMurn of the plague,
ii., 138.
Pliny and jElian accused of having
exaggerated, i, 61.
------ names three plants endowed
with magical properties, i., 62.
Poisons, Hindoo, named Powst, ii.,
119.
•----------------------, the instruments
which formed, L, 269.
Pharachites, i., 150.
Phosphorus, how used by the an­
cients, ii., 183.
—----------- , Bologna, ii., 177, 178.
- -------------- , Baldwin’s, ii., 178.
■ ' , the ancientsacquainted
with, ii., 182.
---------- , trial by, ii, 123.
Polo, Marco, i., 89.
Polycritus, the ghost of, i., 252.
Polyphemus conquered by Ulysses,
i., 54.
Polypi, dimensions of the, exaegera­
ted, i„ 6i.
Polytheism, miracles o£ exposed by
the Christian religion, L, 169.
---------------legend^of, transformed
into moral allegories, i., 215.
Pontiffs, the Roman, in their rites
made use of words known only to
themselves, 177.
Porphyrogenitus, Constantine, ad­
vice to his son, ii.. 193.
-----------------------used the Greek
fire, ii., 194.
Porphyry, account of, i., 134.
------------- , his refutation of Cbaer6-
mon, i., 134.
Porsenna, story of, explained, it, 156.
Posthumus, Dictator, victory gained
by him, L, 57.
Potamantis, a plant, ii., 17.
Powder, offensive, ii., 135.
Prayers, miracle attributed by the
Christians to the efficacy of, i.. 103.
Priest, title inseparable with physi­
cian and sorcerer among the N&-
doessis, &c., ii., 94.
Priests of Phrygia and Syria threw
open their sanctuaries, i., 210.
Proclus, a physician, in, 36.
Phrygia, where Diana rewards the
love of Endymion, i., 53.
•----- —, Rome borrowed the fable —, _ r.._--------- , _,
of Anchurus from, i., 87. ; Prodigy, every thing so in the eyes
Physical science, for the most part,' of the ignorant, i., 42.
can explain the sorcery of Thau- Protcsilaus, the wife of, i.. 266.
maturgy, i., 41. Proteus, account of, i., 275.
Physics, natural, employed by ma-'Psammenites, King of Egypt, cause
gicians, ii., 147. i of the death o£ L, 71.
Digitized by L>ooQle
GENERAL INDEX. 311
Rome, legend of its inundation, ii.,
251.
Sabbat, account of L, 225, 226, 228,
229; ii., 41-49.
-------- , St. Augustin speaks of note
on, i., 225, 226.
-------- , what passed at the, L, 228.
--------, inventions taught at, ii.. 132.
Sabaism, religious system prevalent
in Arabia, L, 204.
Saint Arne), his exploit with a ser­
pent, ii., 254.
-------Athanasius, note on, ii., 120.
-------Balsemus, i., 84.
—— Bernardin reprobated light­
ning conductors, ii., 153.
-------Clara, in a church in Norman­
dy, i., 83.
-------Clare, account ofher, L, 75.
-—— Cyr, well at the church of, iL,
253.
------------- , his victory over a dragon,
ii., 253.
-------Denis, i., 83.
.... — Epiphanius, account of, i.. 117.
■ ■ — Exuperantius, i., 83.
-------Felix represented on the seal
of the canton, L, 83.
---------------sent St. Martin to Nantes,
L, 104.
------ Florence, his exploit with a
serpent, ii., 256.
■------- Francis of Assisi, account of L,
75.
------ Germain at Auxerre, account
of L, 75.
-------Hilaire, Geoffrey, L, 97.
------ Hilary, his triumph over a ser­
pent, ii., 254.
-------Hubert, note on, L, 232; iL, 98.
-------Januarius, note on, L, 287.
-------John the Baptist, relics of L,
288.
------ Justin, note on, L, 266, 267.
-------Lawrence Scopali, note on, i.,
286.
------- Lucain, i., 84.
-------Lucian, L, 84.
------ Magdalene, the blood of, i., 286.
— - Martin, sent to convert, L, 104.
-----------------, his triumph over a ser­
pent, iL, 255.
- -----Maurice of Agen, i., 83.
-------Michael, legend of killing the
dragon, ii., 250.
------------------ , his sword and shield
exhibited, ii., 250.
------ Mitrius at Arles, note on, i., 83.
Pseudo-monarchia Dsemonum, of
what origin, i., 233.
----- --------------------------------------- , ge­
nii of, L, 233.
Psychagogues, L, 265.
Psychomantium visited by Elysius,
i., 265.
Ptolemies introduced the worship
of Saturn and Serapis, ii., 292.
Pyrites, what composed of, iL, 180.
Pythagoras, three plants, according
to him, had the power of freezing
water, L, 62.
--------------- , who were the prophets
consulted by him at Sidon, i., 142.
---------------t account of, L, 167, 168.
---------------, what sagacity attributed
to, ii., 136.
Pythonesses known among the
Gauls, L, 230.
Purgatory ofSt. Patrick, ii, 86.
Queen Elizabeth suffers from witch­
craft, ii, 56.
---------------------- , sermon against
witchcraft preached before her,
ii, 56.
Quicksilver, a shower of L, 44.
Raymond of Sully, his exploit, ii.,
260.
Rabelais, the memory of, i., 58.
Radegonde, the Church ofSt., i., 58.
Rain, diverse opinions of that which
succored Marcus Aurelius, L, 103.
Raleigh, Sir W., note on, L, 89.
Rats, Libyan, note on, L, 92.
------, yellow, transformed into yel­
low quails, L, 77.
Rattlesnake, the young, at the ap­
proach of danger, take refuge in
the mouth of the mother, L, 64.
Religion ofEgypt attacked in vain by
Cambyses, i., 205, 211.
Regillus, Lake, i., 57.
Reparator, L, 137.
Rhabdomantic art, L, 197.
Rheims, ringing of bells at, L, 51.
Rhesus, horses of L, 79.
Rigveda, character of ii., 170,171.
Rosicrucians, account of the, L, 219,
220.
Roukh, or Roc, under this name nar­
rators have described a monstrous
bird, L, 60.
Royal touch, account of, iL, 80.
Rogations, iL, 250.
--------------, serpents carried in the
processions, iL, 253.
Digitized by C>ooQle
312 GENERAL INDEX,
Saint Nicasius, first Bishop ofRouen,
i, 84.
------ Nicholas ofTolentius, bones of,
£, 288.
------ Pantaleon, note on, L, 287.
-------Par, one ofthree martyrs, i.,84.
------ - Patrick, lighted a kiln with
snow, iL, 181.
------------------, note on, L, 79.
------------------, purgatory of iL, 86.
-------Paul, trance of, L, 76.
------- Phocas, curative power of his
tomb, iL, 253.
■ — Principius at Souvigny, L, 84.
- ■ — Regula, i., 83.
------ San6, the iron collar of, L, 152.
-------Savinian, i., 84.
-------Thecla, miracle attributed to
her, account of, L, 103.
-------Thomas, the black slaves at, L,
168, 169.
-----------------— Aquinas, bones of i.,
288.
-------Valery painted holding his
head, i., 83.
-------Vitus’s Dance, iL, 80.
Salmonius, the fable of ii., 158,159.
Samaria, a prey to the horrors of
famine, L, 70.
Samaveda, character of, ii., 171.
Samoyedes, a people recognized in
the narrations of Greek writers, L,
89.
Scythia, the liqueur of, i., 290.
----------, impressionofHercules’foot
left in, L, 56.
Scythian asses, ii., 114.
Scythians, anthropophagi existing
among the, L, 89.
------------- sometimes have the ap­
pearance of old women, L, 91,
Seals, representation of saints on, L,
83.
Second sight, note on, ii., 65.
Sementini, Doctor, L, 303.
Serapion the Egyptian, L, 307.
Serapis, constellation of the equinox
represented by, i., 107.
Seres described by Pliny and Virgil,
L, 67.
Serpent, tamed, of Ajax, L, 319.
---------- in Timauni, L, 319.
■ Papa, or Ammodite, i., 320.
---------- Naja, L, 325.
---------- , that opposed by Regulus
probably a boa constrictor, iL, 238.
----------, figure of the, in emblems,
it, 252.
---------- , ancientmythologyconnect­
ed with legends of the, it, 316.
Serpents discovered in the Antilles
by their odor, L, 327.
------------, winged, could only have
been emblems, it, 240.
------------, monstrous, emblematic of
inundations, ii., 240.
----------- ■, legends of adopted into
history, iL, 244.
------------of Sologne, legend respect­
ing, ii., 251, 252.
Shells of beans, ii, 132.
Siam, mode of calculating eclipses
existing in, i, 195.
Siberia shut out from the age of in­
ventions, L, 290.
Siminias, a philosopher of Thebes,
ii., 34.
Simon the magician, L, 274, 275.
Simplicus, Pope, L, 299.
Sipylus, Mount of, L, 55.
-------------------------, endemic diseases
—~----- very susceptible offear,
----------------, how they cured dis­
eases, ii., 88, 89.
San Sever© occupied with chemical
experiments, i., 188. ;
Sannyasi, visions of, it, 85. ;
-------------, description of the sect of
11., 85. ;
Sarritor, i, 137.
Savoy, a block of granite at, i., 56. ;
Saxo Grammaticus, first tales of L,
120, 274. I
Scandinavians, the power they at- :
tach to verse, i., 200. ,
Schools of Philosophy opened to the
Christians, L, 215.
—------ of Toledo, SeviDe, and Sala-
manca, L, 224. ;
Sciences, occult, the domain of, re- i
duced within true limits, L, 49. I
Scopelism, the emblem of, ii., 131.
Scrofula, royal touch and cure for,
11.. 80.
Scylla, whatbecomes ofthe tradition
of, L, 61.
peculiar to the neighborhood of.
i., 55.
Sisera, note on Jael and, i., 70.
Sita, wife of Rama, L, 297, 298.
Siva, colossal statue of, account of L,
161.
------, adoration of, L, 204.
Smerdis, brother of Cambysea, L,
208.
Snake stones, account of L, 324.
Digitized by Google
GENERAL INDEX. 313
Snakes, Hindoos allowed themselves
to be bitten by, i., 324.
Snow, from what causes it becomes
of a red hue, i., 99.
------- , red, account of, note, 1., 99.
Soap, its influence in rendering
bodies incombustible, i., 303.
■■ its stupefying influence, ii., 32.
Solanum, poison of, ii., 16.
Solinus, note on, i., 81.
Solomon, explosion at his tomb, ii.,
198.
Sorcery, Bishop of Spires accused
of, ii., 59.
---------- > various accusations of, ii,
59, 60.
Soukh-oos, note on, i., 317, 318.
Soulimas, the king of the, i., 316.
-------------, the tribe of the, L, 153.
Spikenard, note on, i., 307.
Spinon, nature of, it, 181.
Spots, red. appearance of, i, 100.
Spring, fatal, in Thrace, ii., 116,117.
-------- of water near Tyana, ii., 125.
Statues, sweating and weeping o£ i,
282.
Steinacker, M., death of, ii., 190.
Stheno, one of the Gorgons, ii., 165.
Stone, boat of, L, 54.
Stones, account ofwonderful, L, 248,
249.
Striae, i, 230.
Sun, effect oflooking on the, it, 85.
Superstitions, note on various, L,108-
110.
Superstitious observances, note on,
i, 108-110.
Suttee, ii., 29.
Sweet kernels, what is meant by, ii,
103.
Swedenborg affirmed his revelations
to be a sufficient miracle, i., 128.
Synesius, account of, i., 215, 216.
Szalina, salt-mine of, i., 98.
Taisch, note on, ii., 65.
Tanyoxartes, brother of Cambyses,
how he died, i.. 71.
Tarasque, account of, ii., 238.
------------- emblematical of the inun­
dation of the Rhone, i., 242.
Tarchon founder of the Etruscan
Theurgists, il, 152.
-------- —-, the ancient, L, 178.
Tarquin the elder, note on, i., 159.
Tartars, some tribes eat the con­
demned to death, i., 90.
■ — ■, curious custom of the. Ii,,
185, 186.
Tchin, wine poisonous in which are
macerated the feathers of the, L,
70.
Tchu-ki, a species ofpartridge called
the, i., 77.
Telchines, derivation ofthe name, i.,
129.
------------- first regarded as magi­
cians, i„ 137.
Tell, William, story of the apple, il.,
261.
Temersa, sacrifice at, 1,148.
Temple of Jerusalem, attempt to re­
build, ii., 199, 200.
---------- ofJuno protected fromlight­
ning, ii., 154.
----------at Delphi, account ofthe, t,
172.
Tenda Maia, pigmies found there, i.,
91.
Teriakana, or opium shops, ii., 16.
Terra, the temple of, i., 71.
Tetractys of Pythagoras and Plato,
i, 196.
Thales enabled to predict an eclipse,
i., 206. '
Thaumaturgian subalterns held in
little estimation, i., 212.
Thaumaturgist, his facility of inspir­
ing a belief in the fulfillment of
wonders, i., 145.
Thaumaturgists, the sect mere la­
borersinnaturalphilosophy, L, 134,
--------------------- unknown to Mo­
hammed and Swedenborg, L, 127,
128.
----------------------in what consisted
their power, L, 132.
Thaumaturgy can for the most part
be explained by physical science,
i., 41.
Thecles, how he escaped the wild
beasts, 1, 307.
Themistocles, the cause ofhis death,
i., 71.
Theodoretus, note on, L, 271.
Theophrastus named a mineral
stone spinon, ii., 181.
Theraphim, account of, L, 252.
Theurgist, spirits described by a, i.,
135.
Theurgy defined, i., 127.
Thibault, General, anecdote of, ii., 84.
Thompson, Agnes, a witch, ii., 53.
Thousand and one Nights, tales of
the, of Hindoo origin, i., 130.
Thrasybulus, what appeared when
he was at the head of the exiled
Athenians, L, 103.
Digitized by Google
314 general index.
Tiberius of Rhodes, his horse elec­
trical, ii., 151.
Timarches, his account of his initia­
tion, ii., IL
Tji-Kounir, waters of, troubled, iL,
137.
Toddy made at Ava, Siam, and Pegu,
L, 289.
Toko, story of Tell’s apple applied to
him, ii., 261.
Touch, royal, in scrofula, iL, 80.
Tours, Gregory of, quotation from,
1., 59.
--------------------------■, miracle describ­
ed by, i., 283.
Tower raised by Archelaus, L, 304.
-------- , of larch wood, L, 304.
Travers, Mr., his opinion ofMiss Fan­
court’s case, ii., 8L
Trance sometimes beneficial, ii.,
72.
Trial of burning coals still practiced
among the Hindoos, L, 298.
------ by poisons, ii., 122.
------ by water, ii., 123.
Tripod, how placed, L, 173.
Tritonides, the formation of, L, 107.
Tritonis in Libya, the lake or river
of, L, 107,108.
Trogus, Pompeius, note on, L, 81.
Trophonius, mysteries of his cave,
11., 11.
----------------, cave of L, 242.
Trows, under what names are rec­
ognized the, L, 140.
Tsaltsalya, account of, L, 107.
Tschingenes, L, 150 ; ii., 186.
Tullus Hostilius, discovery from the
books of Numa, note on, L, 183.
--------------------—, killed by lightning,
iL, 155.
------------------ —, his death, ii, 156.
Tzenganis, ii., 186.
Tzianys, L, 150.
Ulysses, vessel of, L, 54.
.--------- , his rowers, L, 61.
-----------, admission of into a nekyo-
mantion, i„ 264.
Unctions, mysterious, belonging to
ancient magi, i., 228.
, the effect of, L, 228.
Valmont de Bomasi, quotation from
him, L, 63.
Vandale, Anthony, account ofL, 160,
161.
Varro, Columella, Pliny, and Solinus,
extraordinary relations of, L, 81.
Vedas, scriptures ofthe Hindoos, iL,
170-172.
--------, the collection of the, L, 119.
Vegetation, various methods of de­
stroying, iL, 132,133.
Ventriloquism, definition of L, 165,
166.
--------------------■, account ofthe art of,
166,167.
Venus, altar of, on Mount Eryx, L,
97,98.
Vervator, i., 137.
Vishnfi, the adoration of i, 204.
Vitus, Saint, his dance, iL, 80.
Voeleurs or Volveurs, priestesses, i,
119.
Vulcan, arms fabricated by, L, 129.
--------- ■, art oftreating metals deified
under the name of L, 137.
--------- , traditions of L, 244.
Wailand, by whom instructed in the
art of forging, L, 129.
Waldenses, account of in, 49, 50.
Water, forespoken, account of iL,
52.
-------- , ordeal ofboiling, L, 300.
——, trial by boiling, used in Hin­
dostan, L, 298.
---------, expansive power of known
to the ancients, ii, 214.
Waters becoming muddy previous
to an earthquake, iL, 137.
Wierius, J-, fragment published by,
account of L, 180.
Wilkinson, Mr., discoveries of in the
statue of Memnon, iL, 296.
Wine, rice, made in China, L, 288.
• , ofFalerno, i., 290.
Wire-gauze used by the ancients on
the principlesofSirH. Davy, L,279.
Witch burned at Wiirzburg in 1750,
it, 47, 55.
Witchcraft, numbers condemned at
Geneva, ii., 47.
--------- ------, Reginald Scott’s work
on, iL, 48.
---------------, shepherds supposed to
practice, ii., 50.
——————, Mrs. Dyer accusedof iL,
56.
------ .-----, belief in, leads to every
vice, ii., 59.
Witches drowned in England in
1751, ii., 55, 56.
-----------, seventeen burned at Gaus
in Essex, ii., 57.
• , statute of James I, of En­
gland against, ii., 57.
Digitized by VjOOQie
GENERAL INDEX 315
Words used in the operations of
magic only Greek and Latin, L,
227.
W raiths, account of, it, 65.
Xanthus, the horses of Rhesus not
permitted to taste of the watersof,
Xen-si. the province of, i, 98.
Yadjour-Veda, its character, ii., 171.
Yogis, account of, ii., 34.
Zagh. description of, it, 116.
Zealanders, the New, avowed can­
nibals. i., 90.
Ziyeuners, what people so called, it,
186.
Zingari, origin of, it, 185.
■-------—, what description of people,
L, 150: ii., 186.
---------- , their perfection in tricks of
every kind, L, 150.
•----------, definition of the term, i., 150.
Zoogene, description of the appear­
ance of, i., 101.
Zoroaster had an interview with the
devil, ii., 163.
------------- perished by lightning, ii^
164.
-------------, verses by, ii., 166.
— —----- his doctrines, ii., 168.
------------- , what occurred to him, ii.,
76.
------------- had no other aim than that
of making additions to the art of
magic, i., 116, 117.
-------------oftenentered the lists with
necromancers inimical to his doc­
trine, i., 124.
------------- , trials of fire endured by,
L, 293.
------------- allowed melted lead to be
poured over him, i., 298.
------------- , that, under the name of,
the Persians worshiped a son of
Shorn, ii., 163.
—-----------, oracles attributed to the
disciples of, ii., 166.
—-----------prayed to the gods to be
struck by lightning, ii., 164.
THE END.
Digitized by CjOOQle
Digitized by UooQle
HARPER’S NEW MISCELLANY
OF
POPULAR STERLING LITERATURE.
** Books that have an atm and meaning in them.”
Now in course of publication, a new and attractive library
of sterling books, elegantly printed in duodecimo, on fine
paper, and bound in extra muslin gilt, jilted for permanent
preservation.
PRICE FIFTY CENTS A VOLUME.
The cheapest Popular Series of Works yet Published.
I.. II.
Elements of Morality and Polity.
BY WILLIAM WHEWELL, D.D.,
AUTHOR OF “HISTORY AND PHILOSOPHY OF THR INDUCTIVE SC1EN
CES,” &C.
2 vote. 12mo, Muslin, extra gilt, $1 00.
Dr. Whewell’s work ought to be read, because it can not be read without
advantage : the age requires such books.—London Athenaum.
A text-book of simple truths, from which, by induction, a complete sys­
tem of morality is constructed, applicable to all the relations and circum­
stances of life, and embracing every department of human action. The
reader who shall carefully study these volumes—and a more inviting page,
clear and legible, the eye does not often rest upon—will find his labor more
than rewarded.—New York Commercial Advertiser.
Professor Whewell’s “ Elements of Morality” have been universally re­
ceived in England as a contribution of rare value to the department of moral
and political science.—Baltimore American.
A splendid production by one of the most distinguished of the scientific
men of the age. This is a book, not to be read merely, but to be re-perused
and patiently studied ; we have heard it pronounced by no mean critic the
most complete and lucid work on ethical philosophy ever produced. We
commend this work to the especial notice ofthinkers and readers, to schol­
ars and schools generally, as a most admirable text-book.—Sun.
The style of the work, though simple, is extremely clear, strong, and el­
oquent. It is a book to be studied rather than superficially read, and can
not fail to be of the very highest importance in instructing and disciplining
the public mind.—American Patriot.
This is beyond all comparison the most complete, comprehensive, andln-
minous treatise on the important subjects it discusses, that is to be found
in the language, and its careful study is indispensable to every one who
would obtain true and definite notions in regard to the principles of public
and private morals. It is profoundly learned and philosophical, but the writ­
er thinks logically and clearly, and is therefore at all times lucid and com­
prehensible.—Buffalo Commercial Advertiser.
Digitized by C>ooQle
harper’s new miscellany
in.
The Philosophy of Mystery.
BY WALTER COOPER DENDY.
12mo, Muslin, extra gilt, 50 cents.
This is a learned and elaborate work, in which the writer goes into the
investigation of all the phenomena of mind in the erratic operations and
phantasies of ghost seeing and spectral hallucinations, and aims to give the
true philosophy of all such delusions. He is a medical man of consider­
able eminence, and has spared no pains in his researches, giving a great
number of facts and cases to illustrate his philosophy. The volume will be
much sought for, as it is really a desideratum in the world of literature.
We know of no work on this subject which lays the same just claim to public
attention, or the study of the philosopher.—Christum Advocate and Journal.
The volume before us is both instructive and amusing, and at this partic­
ular time, when the extremes of superstition and philosophy have shaken
hands, it will be likely to effect an inconceivable amount of good, if prop­
erly studied. It is one of the most remarkable productions of the day, aud
must create an extraordinary degree of interest in the public mind.—Mer­
chant's Magazine.
It belongs to that class of writings which you can take up and put down
at pleasure, and which may be subjected to repeated readings. The woik
is pleasant, however, in spite of this—pleasant because of its facts, its nu­
merous details of mystery, its vast collection of anecdote, its developments
of diablerie^ its tidings from the spiritual world, and the many cases which
it brings together of the curious and the wonderful in nature and art, which
former ages, and ignorance and superstition, have concluded to consider su­
pernatural. Where science and modern speculation furnish the solution tn
the mystery, Mr. Deudy couples it with the statements, and the book is
thus equally valuable and amusing.—Charleston Transcript.
Here lies a remarkable work; beautiful in its style, and wondrous in it
*
matter. The work is strictly philosophical in its tendency, yet more amus­
ing than a novel.—True American.
This is a book for the lovers of marvels and of mysteries. It contains an
immense collection of anecdotes of spectral apparitions, of illusions of visiou
or of hearing, of striking phenomena exhibited in dreams, in insanity, in
trance, or in magnetism, and furnishes many very valuable hints to aid in
the solution of these mysteries, by which so many have been bewildered
or affrighted. It is written in a style of great ease and elegance, and can
not fail to find a very wide circle of welcoming readers.—Albion.
This unique and remarkable book has just been placed on our table ; we
know its reputation of old ; it is an admirable discourse on the subject of
supematuralisms, such as mental illusions, dreams, ghosts, mesmeric phe­
nomena, &c. If any one will but read the first hall dozen pages, we will
vouch for it he will not neglect the rest of the volume: it is one of the best
written books on one of the most curious range of topics that could engage
the pen of a writer, or the attention of a reader. It is, in fact, one of the
most curious volumes ever perused, upon a series of the most singular sub­
jects, and, in this new and neat form, it will command a vast number of
readers.—Sunday Times.
“The Philosophy of Mystery” is an exceedingly able work; far better,
we think, than the “ Natural Magic” of Brewster, a book of identical pur­
pose, carried out in a totally different way. The “ Natural Magic” is the
inure ratiucinative, Mr. Dendy’s essay the more poetical, the more imagina­
tive, and to us tbo more interesting.— National Press.
I
I
I
Digitized by UooQle
OF POPULAR STERLING LITERATURE. 8
IV.
The Life of Mozart:
INCLUDING HIS CORRESPONDENCE.
BY EDWARD HOLMES,
AUTHOR OF “A RAMBLE AMONG THE MUSICIANS OF GERMANY,” <fcc,
12mo, Muslin, extra gilt, 50 cents.
It is written in a beautiful, narrative style, and can not but be every
where acceptable. To all who appreciate the extraordinary genius of Mo­
zart, the delicate structure of his mind, the incidents of his lite, and his ro­
mantic death, this volume will indeed be a treasure.—Boston Gazette.
It contains, in addition to much of his interesting correspondence, and
other papers, a detailed account of his life, adventures, and rise as an artist,
and a discriminating sketch of his character, the peculiarities of which are
happily illustrated by anecdotes. Many things of him, unknown even to
his admirers, are here given to the world, and his biographer, fully appre­
ciating the artist, has yet, not like a flatterer, but with true independence,
spoken candidly of the faults of the man.—Merchant's Magazine.
Of this far-famed Life of Mozart it >• scarcely necessary for us to say a
word ; the foreign reviews have been so unanimous in their encomiums,
that we suppose few will be found insensible to the strong inducement of
its perusal, especially as the work may be obtained at the trifling cost of
half a dollar, and in so beautiful a guise. We have looked into the biog­
raphy but slightly, yet find it redolent with interest, and fully sustaining
the high estimate placed upon the work by the London Athenceum and
Blackwood. If the Harpers continue to fill their new library with sterling
works like the present, it will present the most truly valuable series, yet
the cheapest, ever attempted in any age or country.—Evening Gazette.
The only authentic biography of the great composer that is extant in the
English language, and the events of his career are replete with useful ad­
monitions and warning to the sons of genius, and they whisper to those
whose presentclaims are notallowed that there is a future full of promise.
In his life Mozart was neglected and impoverished, and he went to his
grave with more than the bitterness of death crowding on his thoughts,
but fame has taken possession of his memory, and among those who move
as gods in musical art, few are equal to him, none are superior. This bi­
ography possesses an interest for all who feel interested in the great men
of tbe earth. It is not only remarkably well written, but has a complete­
ness about it we have never found before in any life of Mozart.—Louisvillt
Journal.
There is such a charm in this narrative, that the lovers of good biography
can not hear of it too soon. We can not conceive a more fascinating story
of genius. To a style which would alone have sufficed to the production
of an interesting and striking narrative, Mr. Holmes unites a depth of
knowledge and musical appreciation very rare and remarkable. We thank
him cordially for a most pleasing addition to our standard biographical lit­
erature .—Examiner.
The book is one of extraordinary interest, not merely to the lovers of
music and appreciators of the great composer, but to the general reader, as
a vivid picture of the life of a man of genius, who encountered all the dif­
ficulties, trials, and sufferings usually the lot of genius when it comes be­
fore a world incapable of appreciating it, and indifferent to its welfare. The
domestic portions of the book are invaluable ; his relations to hjs father and
his wife are very beautiful. The work is admirably executed, as well in the
scientific as anecdutical passages, and is worthy of the widest sale.—-News
Digitized by C>ooQle
Messrs. Harper & Brothers have the pleasure of an
nouncing that they have just issued a complete Classified and
Descriptive Catalogue of their Publications, comprising a
very extensive range of Literature, in its several departments
of History, Biography, Philosophy, Travel, Science and Art,
the Classics, and Fiction; also, many splendidly Embellished
Productions. A rigid critical taste has governed the selec­
tion of these works, so as to include not only a large pro­
portion of the most esteemed Literary Productions of our
times, but supplying also, in the majority of instances, the
best existing authorities on given subjects. This new Cata­
logue, having been constructed with a view to the especial
use of persons desirous of forming or enriching their Literary
Collections, as well as principals of District Schools and Sem­
inaries of Learning, who may not possess any reliable means
of forming a true estimate of any production, commends itself
to all sucn by its novel feature of including bibliographical,
explanatory, and critical notices. For want of such aid, a
large portion of the reading community remain ignorant of
the vast wealth ofour accumulated literary stores, an acquaint­
ance with which must ever be regarded as an essential ele­
ment, both in the progress of social advancement and in in­
dividual refinement and happiness. It may be as well to
add, that the valuable collection described in this Catalogue,
consisting of about eighteen hundred volumes, combines the
two-fold advantages of great economy in price with neatness
—often great elegance of typographical execution, in many
instances the rates of publication being scarcely one-fifth of
those of similar issues in Europe.
*#* Copies of this Catalogue may be obtained, free of ex­
pense, by application to the Publishers personally, or by letter,
post-paid.
All orders accompanied with a remittance promptly ex-
wuted.
82 CUtf-street, Sept., 1846.
Digitized by Google
