{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1847__tecmen___facts_and_testimonials_in_favor_of_somnambulism.pdf","mytitle":"Facts And Testimonials In Favor Of Somnambulism","mylang":"de"}
FACTS
ANU 7:') -:-&. 1
/
/-/9
TESTIMONIALS /
IS P.tVOUR OJ'
SOMNAMBULISM
AN O
CLAIRVOYANCE
WITH
MESMERIC INFLUENCE.
BT TRI
MARC
HIO'.NESS OF SAN MILAN TECMEN.
1
Digitized by GoogIe
FACTS AND TESTIMONIALS
IN FA.TOUR OF
SOMNAMBULISM
///..
AND /
/
CLAIRVOYANCE
WITH
MESMERIC INFLU}JNCE.
BY
THE MARCHIONESS OF SAN MILAN TECMEN,
·--·-·-·- ··---· 1,,
Born in Germany, Naturalized Mt.:ric~.
" LOIN OU DE PRES, .TE LE SA.IS."
CHELTENHAM:
PRINTED BY .J, .J. RADLEY, .JOURNAL OFFICE,
QUEEN'S BUILDINGS.
1847.
Digitized by GoogIe
·--- ---~-..---------
Digitized by Google
TO THE BRITISH PUBLIC.
CracuMsTucBs of a private and domestic nature, oblige me
again to leave England, but I cannot do so, without ex-
pressing my gratitude to those from whom I have received
favors, and to acknowledge that from the British Press, I
have experienced every kindness and encouragement, to ex-
press what I believe to be the truth.
I trust the day is not far distant when I shall again
return to this beloved country, beloved, I may truly say,
since it received me kindly as a Foreigner, and treated me
liberally and well.
This little publication is made by me as a memento
of some of the cures I have performed. They are those
only which were well tested, and authenticated by the Public
Press. All those, (of whi.ch there are many,) which were
not thus noticed, are omitted, but merely for a time, as on
my return to England, the whole of my cures, both there
and on the. Continent will be published by me, till which
time I beg to have the honor to subscribe myself with
grateful remembrance
Their devoted and obedient,
MARQUISE OF SAN MILAN TECMEN.
Digitized by GoogIe
Digitized by Google
OBSERVATIONS ON MESMERISM,
XADE BY
THE MARCHIONESS OF SAN MILAN,
THE CELEBRATED SOMNAMBULIST.
HAVING often remarked in the seance that have been
given by me, that many erroneous opinions have been ad-
vanced, which from their tendency are likely to throw
much discredit on Somnambulism. ; I ask permission to
notice them, and to make a few observations on the subject,
but with this proviso, that these observations be not esti-
mated asfaeta, as I by no means pretend to a deep insight
into a science, too little understood as yet to hazard my
opinions as esta'l>liaked ones.
In order to set aside these erroneous opinions, and
reserving for a future period my entering on my own his-
tory, and my intense studies and researches into the volume
nature and her manifold works, I shall for the present con-
fine myself to a slight sketch as it were of Magnetism and
Somnambulism; tending to prove that they are the gifts of
God, and not the result of researches in the schools of men ,
and I shall thus endeavour to bring before you the convic-
tion, that if these gifts are lightly used or rather abused for
diversion or amusement, they are degraded and lowered,
and defeat the great purposes of mercy which God has
designed to effect through their medium, I shall deem
myself happy, if I succeed so far in·my attempt as to render
Digitized by GoogIe
6
these thoughts intelligible to my readers, to those at best
who like myself are fully sensible of the great need ofpurity
of intention, of integrity and uprightness, the necessary re-
sult I may say of gifts so superior, and who have conse-
quently made it the subject of intense application and deep
thought ; to these I look for aid, and for light, and for sup-
port if I deviate from the right path unintentionally whilst
I am considering a subject of so muchimportance. Having
come to the conclusion that Magnetism and Somnambulism
are the gifts of God, it will readily be admitted that they
are not given alike to all mortals, but that those who are
thus endowed are privileged beings, and highly gifted. It
does not however follow that a man of pure and upright
intent, a lover of truth, and one who studie1 nature in sim-
plicity unfettered and unbiassed by human opinions, cannot
enter into the depths of this science, or that he cannot after
manifold experiments made by himself become a good
Magnetiser, but what I assert is this, that such happy results
will never follow the same attempts made by a man of de-
praved habits and evil passions, to such a man the portals
of the sanctuary of truth will ever remain closed. You
must not either suppose that you are become Magnetisers,
when you make a few passes over any one ; far from it ;
this act requires not only the concentration of your strength,
but also of your will-and an entire giving up of all idea of
amusement or diversion in the matter, or ofanything indeed
that can in any way distract your thoughts, or divert them
from that entire devotion of heart and mind, which is re-
quisite for so heavenly a work, as benefiting your neighbour
or mankind in general ;-Summon up moral courag~
sufficient to respect this work, and to make others respect
it also, and avoid making it the subject of vain speculations
and of ridicule, as is too often the case, and which i!I the
more to be lamented as no nation seems better calculated to
Digitized by GoogIe
7
produce Magnetisers than the English. By nature posses-
sing good reflecting faculties, directing their mental energies
to the furtherance of scientific researches, not easily over-
come by opposition or vain objections, I feel persuaded that
this is the sole country where Magnetism and Somnambu-
lism will shine in all its glory. But, alas ! we all imagine
that we can progress in this science by what we have seen,
and what we have read, and do not sufficiently seek for in-
information for ourselves individually, though Somnambu-
lism like Mesmerism is still in the infancy of its existence,
and we are still too much in the dark onboth these subjects,
for the greatest genius to advance with rapid strides, much
less without giving great application to the study of either.
Antiquity once produced a being of superior intelligence,
the celebrated and well-known Esculapius who ranked
amongst the Divinities, so highly was he esteemed and
valued by the Ancients of his day, so that he might be con-
sidered the father of the science of medicine, another gift
from heaven,--and at this day we should do well to retrace
our steps to the discoveries and researches made by him,
and go back to the source, to trace the origin of a principle
which like a light-house in the midst of a sea of ages, en-
lightened those days of darkness ! this march, though appa-
rently a retrograde, is a logical one--very logical, because we
see it is followed up and adopted whenever we wish to ar-
rive at reasonable conclusions and successful results. I am
prepared for the objections made to my argument, that
man cannot divest himselfof pre-conceived ideas and estab-
lished opinions, and that so much improvement in this as
in all sciences has followed with the flight of years, that it
is impossible to go back to first principles ; moreover that
every thing is given to change, that men are desirous of
acquiring celebrity, and following up new fangled books
and speculations with avidity, especially regarding the
Digitized by GoogIe
8
novelties of the day as advantages which their predecessors
possessed not. These legitimate objections are in perfect
accordance with those advanced by the most enlightened of
men ; but a really extended view of things, would lead us
to the conclusion of Lord Bacon ; that '' we should accus-
" tom ourselves by the light of particulars to enlarge
" our minds to the amplitude of the world, and not
" reduce the world to the narrowness of our minds."
And this would tend to convince us that we should gain
much more information for the most part in a continued
observation of the phenomena of nature, than by con-
tinually dwelling on the works of men. The great book
of nature is always open before us, and we abandon it
to turn to details pourtrayed in much less vivid colors than
those of nature thereby we are hindered in our search after
truth, and in beholding wonders which should not be suf-
fered to remain as the exclusive appendages of the first
ages of the world. These considerations might prove dis-
couraging, if we were not fully convinced of the wisdom
and goodness that regulate all earthly things, and this
same conviction teaches us that we likewise may fathom
the sources of eternal truth ; and slake our thirst at the
same streams as those which in past ages proved all-suffi-
cient for the sick and needy, remembering also the admi-
rable axiom which cannot be too often repeated-" Ars
lunga vita brevis." As for those who dwell exclusively
on progressive improvement, and who imagine that the
ancients knew nothing, and who deny the truth of the pro-
verb, "that there is nothing new under the sun, it.would be
well to remind them that the Greeks were well versed in
medicine, and that the antiquity of the science is corrobo-
rated by the testimony of Scripture, as we :find in ·many
passages of Holy Writ. Take for example the Book of
Genesis, chap. 50, where Joseph commands the Egyptian
Digitized by GoogIe
9
Physicians to embalm the body of his father Jacob. In the
lelst chapter of Exodus, Moses says, " that if men strive
" together, and one smite another, if he die not but rise
" again and walk abroad, then shall he that smote him be
" quiet: only he shall pay for the loss of his time, and shall
" cause him to be thoroughly healed." The Book of Eccle-
siastics contains a passage which would alone prove that
the medical art was of long standing, and this passage has
been especially considered by me in a state of Somnam-
bulism, devoting my time and attention to it by night and
by day, in order that I might obtain a satisfactory explana-
tion, or rather arrive at a conclusion which one might be
tempted to say was the result of illumination from on high,
as it so far exceeds the belief of men on these subjects, and,
I doubt not, would be set aside altogether by the greater
part. In the same book I also read that the science ofmedi-
cine is the gift of God ; and should be richly rewarded
and upheld by Kings, and that those who exercise the pro-
fession will be am.ply compensated for their labours. I
read also that the High and Mighty One has implanted in
the bosom of the Earth all the remedies needful for hum.an
maladies, and which a wise physician would know how to
apply suitably to his patient, and that from his eternal
throne this mighty being teaches us the different virtues of
plants and herbs, and their healing virtues, and that this
knowledge is given to men ezpreaaly that they may honor
God in his wondrous works. Has man followed out
this knowledge as it was imparted to him? Alas, this
cannot be said to be the case:, and we must trace the cause
in the consequent failure of the science,-No l it is. no
longer composed of the same primeval elementa, its sub-
stance has been modified in the course of years, and the
attempt to follow up its search in the simplicity of truth
has been quite set aside-the result has been a departure
Digitized by GoogIe
10
from that knowledge by which we might have benefited our
fellow creatures, instead ofinjuring them as is now too often
the case. Let us then offer to God a pure sacrifice, and con-
sider physicians as appointed by Him, to minister to the ma-
ladies and necessities of the human race, and give them due
honor as remembering who has called and appointed them for
their great work. Let us also look back to Greece with
veneration, as having given us one of our first great lights.
Hippocrates, one of the most enlightened of men, calling
into exercise with gigantic grasp all the discoveries which
had preceded him, and thus erecting as it were a beacon
which, like a sun, threw the lustre of its beams into suc-
ceeding ages, and shed a light by which all should desire to
walk; who aspire to the practice of so noble and difficult
an art as that of healing. God"grant that what I have said
may be understood and approved by the wise and enlight-
ened, and that they may be persuaded that since I have
devoted my time and attention to the subject of Somnam-
bulism, J. have fully appreciated the great importance and
high bearing ofthe scienceof medicine, and that the latter is
also comprised in my path, and cannot be detached from it.
But it pleased God in bestowing upon men the gift ofmedi-
cine not often to give them further light, therefore in wis-
dom infinite, he has seen fit to send another phenomenon
on the earth, to which has been given the name of " Som-
nambulism," and the medical men were really desirous to
gain information in this occult branch of their art, and seri-
ously to fathom Somnambulism and Magnetism, they might
perhaps succeed in making us live as long as Esculapius
did. However, to attain so great an end, they would need
even more light than that of the Somnambulist to guide
them aright. They must also renounce egotism and its
spirit, which seems so much to limit the energies of men ;
and no longer to condemn Somnambulism, or rather pre-
Digitized by Google
11
Judge it, without having sufficiently investigated the matter.
In these passing remarks I have hitherto only alluded to
the foundation on which I base my princ.iples of action in
my present career ; and shall reserve for a future occasion
the mention of those. means placed within our reach, to pro-
gress onwards towards that perfectwn which ought to be
our aim in all that we undertake ;-I shall then hope to de-
velope still .further the principles on which I act, since I
have undertaken the science of Magnetism and Somnam-
bulism, and to throw out a few ideas, which by God's bles-
sing, may be rendered useful to others ; I shall thankfully
in my turn receive ~y hints which may be offered by those
competent to give them, and to correct any errors which the
superior judgment of others may point out to me.
Digitized by GoogIe
Digitized by GoogIe
FACTS AND TESTIMONIALS,
EXTRACTED FROM TB:E PUBLIC PRESS.
From th. " Timu," July 8th, 184.4.
Sox1u.11BuL1ax.-Je Sfualgne, «&tteete que La Prlncee1e de Gunzaga di
Jlanto't'&, mon 6pouae a Sonft'ert, pendant deux ans d'une maladie mortelle,
prononcee incurable par lea m6d6cin1. Elle a ~ gnerle clans l'etpace de
deux moi• par lee aoins et le traitement de la celebre Sonnambule, La Har-
quile de San .Milan Tecmen de Mexique, Donne a Londres, le 3 July, 18",
Alexandre Prince de Gunzaga Due de Manton.
From tM "Morning Po#," .Augiut 8, 184.4.
Cu.IB.VOTANCB.-Madame La Marquieede San Milan Tecmeu, the cele·
brated somnambuliat, now at ll, Baker-street, Portman-square, when In a
mesmeric sleep, on the 27th oflaat June, predicted that 011r Most Gracious
Queen wonld be safely delivered or a eon on the 6th of August, 1844. Deli-
cacy forbade ihe publication or thia before ; but many respectable witnesses
can be produced to te1tlfy the fact. Baron de H. C.
From tM "Morning Po8t," .Auglllt 14, 1844.
CLA.tB.VOTANCB.-Though the clear-11eeing Alexia baa departed from our
shores, the sun of meameriem bu not yet aet; or rather it baa risen with re-
splendent brightneaa, and nowahinea with fairer refulgence than ever. Madame
Tecmen de Mexico, Marquile de San Milan, who for eome ycar1 past has
Digitized by GoogIe
,•
14
exercised her wonderful powen In Paris and other cities on the continent
with great 1ncce111, has recently arrived In London to aft"ord the English
pnblic an opportunity of benefiting by her facnlty ofclairvoyance, which pro-
teeaea to penetrate the Innermost receaaea ofthe human constitution, to detect
lta ailments, and prescribe the remedy. Madame Tecmen certainly effected
eome extraordinary cores when in Parla. One case waa mentioned to oa by a
trlend, about two years since, in which a lady who had consulted many me·
dlcal men in vain, resorted to Madame Tecmen; who, after being mesmerised,
Indicated the lady's complaint, and stated the course she ~hould adopt, tell·
Ing her at the end of the month to send a lock of hair, when a fresh pre•
acription would be rorwarded. Thia waa done for two or three months, and
the lady recovered. To whatever canse we may attribute such cores, whether
to mesmeric lucidity In the pby1iclan, or to Imagination in the patient, the
facts, we believe, are lnconteatible. W'e attended one of Madame Tecmen'•
IOI.rm OD Monday evening, at her residence In m'ker-street, Portman square;
when ahe operated on a young lady who, we were aaaured, bad been paralytic,
and could not raise her band higher than her cheat before the Marquise
operated on her ; bot after nine operations ebe can now move the paralysed
arm aa high aa her head. The medicinal powere &I'd not, however, the moat
extraordinary of thoee which the Marquise la said to poueae. When ahe
herself la in a state of aomnambuliam abe undertakes, on being placed en
rapport with any Individual, to deacrihe the peraon or place be la thinking of;
or on being merely given a lock of hair, to describe the Individual to whom
it belonged, what he is doing,where he ta, and to say whether or not he la In
health. Madame Tecmen, we moat observe, is on the juvenile verge ofmiddle
age; her mannere are agreeable, and her countenance Intelligent and pleasing ;
therefore, when clairvoyance aaaumH ao fair a form, aceptiam must fain
amooth !tabrow,and criticlam mnatltaelfdip lta pen In ink free from gall. We
cannot, conaeqnently, analyse andcomment on what we aaw and heard; we can
only describe and report. On being placeden rapport with the mesmeriser, 1be
Indicated a conatitutiooal defect, and pointed out a sensible remedy ; but In
other reapecta ahe failed. For lnatance, she mentioned several circumatancee
to have taken place aome yeareainee, of which we certainly have no remem-
brance. Neither waa ahe correct In describing the place on which we were
desired to think. With othere, however, ahe seemed to be more 1uCCC111ful,
and on some locks of hair, presented for medical advice, ahe pronounced to
the satisfaction ot tboae who consulted on behalf of their frlendt. We were
Informed, Indeed, by a gentleman, who we feel &111ured would not purposely
misrepresent, that, on the preceding evening, Madame Tecmen had accn.
rately described the pereon and residence of his brother In India by merely
preeentlng her with a lock of his hair. Other wondere were mentioned, In
Digitized by GoogIe
15
which the narraton confidently believed; but, for ouraelvea, we can only sa7
we were unfortunate in uot having penonal experience of anything mira-
culous.
From the "Morning Herald,'' .Augutt 20, 1844.
CLAIRVOYANCB.-Some experiments were made last night by the Mar-
qoite de San MllanTecmeo, ather residence in Baker-street,before a company
ofladiee and gentlemen, who were invited to wltneea the operation of the
faculty of mesmeric clairvoyance, which she was said to pouea1 lo an extra-
ordinary degree. At the opening of the proceedings Mr. Vernon, the popular
lecturer on animal magnetism, delivered a 1hort addreea, in which he de-
scribed Madame Tecmen'a experience and reputation on the Continent, as
well as in America, declaring at the same time, that ahe was gifted with the
peculiar facalty ofbeing able to refer to the concealed dlaeuea of every one
preaent, the diagnostics of which she could point out, when In a clairvoyance
atate, with marvellona readlneea and preciaion. He narrated also the parti•
culan of a wonderful cure which ahe had performed upon a lady who had
been labouring for tweh•e yean under an attack of paralysia, which had
rendered the left arm utterly powerleaa, but which had yielded ao far to
HadameTccmen's manipulation• u to lead to the certainty of perfect reeto-
ration. Thia lady was preaent ; and when thrown into mesmeric sleep by the
fair operator, lifted the paralysed arm to her head, and manifested, aa far as
we could determine, a special invigoration. Strangera were now invited to
aubmit to Madame'• paaaee, and two gentlemen aucceaaively underwent the
teat, but nothing came ofher efforts; the patients were " wide awake" the
whole time, and seemed to be inftuenced by no other feeling than that or
admiration for the pmty woman who was pantomiming ao closely and mys-
terioualy over their head1. It ia right to say that Mr. Vernon intimated that
the experiment& of the evening might fail ; and the apectatora were bound
therefore not to be surprised at the inat.ancee of ill aucceea which they wit-
neesed. The clalrvoy~t experiments now followed. Madame Tecmen wu
placed in an easy chair, and aupported luxuriously by 1ol't cuahiona. A gentle-
man present, bleaaed with the power to do ao, In a trice threw her Into a
alumber, and then ahe was ready to tell secrets to any one who would take
her hand and be en· rapport. Several indivlduala ventured to address the
sleeping Caaaaodra, aud propounded a variety or questions, which were
answered with a voluble and piquant readiness. The reaulta were pronounced
to be satisfactory by some, and unsatisfactory by others ; but sufficient ac-
curacy wu shown to excite aurpriae, and the clairvoyant lady wu generally
looked upon as an omniscient oracle not to be disputed. There were several
-we bellete medical-gentlemen in attendance of atout faith in the cause;
Digitized by GoogIe
16
but, during the time we were present, they did not interfere very conspicu-
ously In the proceedings.
~ ,,/ From the "Age and Argm," AugtUt 24, 1844.
7,h ~'AA-
CLAIRVOYANCB.-Some experiments were made on Monday night by the
Marquise de San Milan Tecmen, at her residence in Baker-street, before a
company ofladiea and gentlemen, who were invited to witnesa the operttion of
the faculty ofmesmeric clairvoyance, which she waa aaid to poaaesa in an extra-
ordinary degree. At the opening of the proceedings Mr. Vernon, the popular
lecturer on animal magnetlam, delivered a abort address, in which be described
Madame Tecmen's experience and re11utation on the Continent, as well as in
America, declaring at the same time that she was gifted with the peculiar
faculty of being able to refer to the concealed diseases of every one present,
the diagnostics of which she could point out, when In a clairvoyant 1tate,
with marvellous readiness and precision. He narrated also the particulars of
a wonderful core which she had performed upon a lady who bad been labouring
for twelve years under an attack of paralysis, which bad rendered the left arm
utterly powerleu, but which had yielded so far to Madame Tecmen'a manipula-
tions as to lead to the certainty ofperfect restoration. Thia lady was present ;
and when thrown into mesmeric sleep by the fair operator, lifted the paralysed
arm to her head, and manifested, aa far as we could determine, a special
invigoration. Strangers were now invited to submit to Madame's pasaea, and
two gentlemen successively underwent the test, bot nothing came of .her
efforts; the patients were " wide awake" the whole time, and seemed to be
lnftuenced by no other f~ling than that of admiration for the pretty woman
who was pantomiming so closely and mysteriously over their heads It le
right to HY that Mr. Vernon intimated that the experiment.·of the evening
might fall; and the spectators were bound therefore not to be aurprlaed at the
instances of ill succesa which they wltt1eSBed. The clairvoyant experiments
now followed. Madame Tecmen was placed in an easy chair, and supported
loxu.rlously by soft cuahions. A gentleman present, bleued with the powen
to do ao, in a trice threw her into a slumber, and then she was ready to tell
secrete to any one who would take her band and be en rapport. Several
indiTiduala ventured to addreaa the aleeping Cassandra, and propounded a
variety~of questions, which were anawered with a Yoloble and piquant readi-
ness. The results were pronounced to be satiafaetory by some, and unaatis-
factory by others ; but suftlclent accuracy was ahown to excite surprise, and
the clairvoyant lady was generally looked upon as an omniscient oracle not to
be disputed. There were several-we believe medical-gentlemen in attend·
anee of stout faith in the cause; but, during the time we were present, they
did not Interfere very conspic11ously in the proceedings.
Digitized by GoogIe
17
From the " A.gt 11ntl Argw1," Atlplt 10, 18".
Mas•BRtsH.-To the Editor or the ..4g.rand..4rgru.-Slr, I know It la
euatomary with th<>M! who write letters to public journalists to preface them
with aome complimentary sentences, Involving the terms "talentedJournal,"
"widely circulated sheet," "an Impartial publication," or other of the Jou!'*
nal'e good or great qualities, and then to tloleh with the patronising ilgiiature,·
" A Constant Reader," or with the Greek for their lotentlooa, or the Latin
for something which ill poly lr.oown to themselves. However blameable I may
be, I have abandoned this line of conduct for a mere statement of facts, very
utoolahlng facts, which I feel In duty bound to make public, and which I
have no doubt will Interest many of your readel'I. I have been for eoma time
engaged Investigating and writing upon the " Fallacies of our own time."
Before enmlnat1on, I viewed Mesmerism aa one of our leading abeurdltlea;
and I moat eonfe&11 I did not see anything very extraordinary In It, tUJ I wu
Introduced to Madame Tecmen, who i1 justly considered the tlrat meamerlat la
Europe. Thia lady, when In a mesmeric sleep, deacribed to me with the
greatest exactneae, pel'lona and placee that I thought or, and which ahe could
not have prevlouely known. One of the persons must have been a stranger to
her, and was then In Germany. She described my brother, bit apartments,
and what be waa then doing; I marked the timP., and on my return home,
found that she was correct to the very letter. And more, ahe told me, that he
was subject to head-aches, and communicated several part1culara respecting
bis health, which were only known to myself. I waa informed by several
ladies and gentlemen whom I met at Mr. Marirary'1, Mr. Bolm'a,aod at Ma-
dame Tecmeo'a residence, 11, Baker-~treet, Portman-square, that they were
rreatly astonlebf'd, as although this lady In her waking state, knows nothing
of the theory or practice of medicine, or of anatomy, yet, In all caaea that bad
fallen under their notice, ahe notonly dh1covered the seat of tllseaae,butapplled
the proper remedy, and bas effected several extraordioery cures. Among
these ladies and gentlem<'n, I sh111l mention Mn. Wallace, 69, Pall-mall; T.
G. Margary, Esq. 7, Southwood-lane, Highgate; Mr. Fradelle, 9, Percy-
atl't'Ct; Mr. Holm, Hlgh!t&te-hlll; Major Nngent and bis lady, 38, Notting·
ham-place. We may be deceived, but the publication of deception never In-
jures the cause of truth ; on the contrary, it shields the public from the
delusions of Imposture, which would 1pread snares for their health, their
freedom of opinion and of cousclence, under the pretexts ofenriching, of heal-
ing, and ofaavlng them. I am, air, your obedient servant, OllTer Byrne, Pro-
fealor of Mathematic., 14, Upper Whartoo-atreet, Pentonville.
From tM ".df" tJna .d.rgtU," .d.ugult 17, 1844.
MBSxaataK.-The star of Meamerlsm la in the aacendant, and the
wonders or clal"oyance are crowding thickly upon ua,for no eoooerbu Alexil
B
Digitized by GoogIe
18
like a brilliant meteor, after dazzling 01 with hie powera, nnlahed from our
eyee, than a fair planet of Magnetism baa appeared above the horizon to yield
a more steady light. The Mexican aomnambuli~t, who baa aatonlahed Paria
by the wonderful curea abe baa performed-she who can discover the secret
C&IUe of diaeaae, and preacribe effectual remedies when the firat physicians of
the age have been unable to a11'ord relief-she wbo in handling a lock of hair
can dacribethe peraon from whoee bead ltia taken,the place in which be then
is, the state of bis health, and how he la occupied-the for whom even the
dark veil of futurity la drawn aaide, Madame la Marquise de St. Milan Tee·
men, has arrived among ua. Of this fact we were made aware by an invitation
to aaaiat at a IOiree 10mnanabrde, at her realdence in Baker-street, Portman•
aquare, and on Monday evening we had the honour of being presented to tbia
fair diaclple of Mesmer. Her fame had already reached us, and in particular
we ealled to mind a caae which waa communicated to 01 by a friend about two
yeara since, of a lady, who, af\er conaulting in vain many Parialan phy1iclana,
resOTted to the Marquise, who at once detected her complaint and prescribed
the eourae to be punned. The lady's health improved, but aa 1be was obliged
to quit Paris, Hadame Tecmen directed her to send her every mouth a lock
of her hair, when a fresh preacrlption would be forwarded. Thia waa done,
and in three months the lady was entirely cured. We were, therefore, pre-
pared to aee a very extraordinary peraon, and bad pictured to ourselves a lady
to whom yeara of study in the myaterlona art bad given the reapectable a~
pearance ofage, and whose beauty bad faded over the midnight oil ; but when
we beheld before us a handsome woman, in the prime of life, whose charm•
were still unscathed, and whose elegant deportment and pleasing mannera
were conspicuous as she received her gueata, we felt at once that we had been
moat delightfully disappointed, and were ready to view in the moat favour-
able light the wonders of Mesmeric science. Soon after our arrival a gentle-
man present addressed the company, and concisely touched upon the princi-
pal features of Mesmerism. He gave a abort statement ofits various phen~
mena, for which, though at preaent no aatiafactorytheory had been advanced,
and though thefaeta themselves were so at variance with ail our pre-conceived
ideas, as to appear tomoat people Incredible, yet many well·attested instancea
ofwhat bad been termed by some aupematurai had occurred, that It waa no
longer possible to doubt their truth. Dileaaes, more particularly those gene-
rally called nenoua, bad been cured by the soothing influence of Mesmeric
1leep. Peraoos rendered insensible by that sleep had undergone the moat
painful operations without the slightest suffering. Distant peraons and objects
had become visible to the eye of the somnambulist; and future events revealed
by the clairvoyant patient. But the moat useful power, and that possessed
in 10 eminent a degree by Madame Tecmen, was the faculty, while in Mea·
meric aleep, of looking at once Into the Inmost recesse~ of the human frame,
~ting with unerring certainty the bidden seat of disease, and prescribing
Digitized by GoogIe
19
the appropriate remedy. The Marquise then operated upon a young lady,
who had )oat the u1e of one aide from a paralytic stroke, but who can now,
after having been Meamcriaed nine times, walk acrose the room, and raise her
once useless band above her head. She was placed in a large fav.tev.il, and
while the handsome Marquise waved her handa with exqul~lte grace as she
made the me11meric pa~ses, generally so ridiculously a~kward, her brilliant
eyes dartinl? fire at her patient, we could not help repeating the words of M.
Jourdain's famous billet doiu: :-" Belle Marquise, vos beaux yeux me font
mourir d'amour." At\er the paralytic patient had 1-n awakened, Madame
Tecmen took her place on thcfauteuil, and was soon tranced by a gentleman
present. One of the company, the editor, we believe of a morning journal,
was now placed en rapport with Madame Tecmen, when she at once
informed him of some defects in bis constitution, and suggeste•I what ap-
peared to all present to he a very sensible course of medical treatment.
A gentleman then placed in her hand a lock of hair, whil'h she told him was
from theheadofanear relative, who was then in India. She described his ap-
pearance,manners, and disposition, and tl1e members ofhis family, with, as we
were informed, the greatcstexactitude,and gavesuch an account ofhisresidence
and occupation at the time as appeared to us very probable considering the
country he was in. A Ot!rman physician next consulted her, aud, after a long
conversation in his native language, which is also that ofthe Marquise, we
were informed, that by handling a Jock of hair she had accurately described
the symptoms of one of his patients, and indicated the seat of the disease
about which had been some doubt in the minds of her medicaJ!advisers. Se-
veral persons then con.ulted her on variona subjects, and received satisfactory
answers; and we were much amused at the delight expressed on the counte-
nances of some young ladies, to gratify whose curio•lty the Marquise bad dis-
pelled the mists of futurity, and rendered visible certain young and handsome
lovers, laden with wealth, casting themeches and their fortunes at their feet.
ltladame Tecmen, though acquainted with several continental languagea, has
not yet maatered ourisland tongue, and theconaultations, with the exception of
that withtheGennandoctor,werecarriedon in French. A relati\·e, however, of
the Marquise, who speaks English fluently, interpreted for such as were
ignorant of French. We understand that lbe Marquise intends to receive her
friends every Monday evening, and we feel confident that all who are for-
tunate enough to obtain admittance, will receive the highest gratification from
the interesting experimeuta which they will witness.
AT AN EVENING 8EANC1l OF THE MARCHIONESS OF SAN MILAN,
just as she was about being awakened by her mesmeriser, a gentleman put hia
hand on the back of her chair, when she exclaimed, " Oh, I do not like
B2
Digitized by Google
20
that; it la a dead child." A gentleman present looked at hla watcli, but no
one knew at the moment what the meant, when she wae awakened, and the
gentleman who had thus touched her chair retired. He bad approached her
to make Inquiry of the health of hie child, who expired at tba time the
Marchioness exclaimed she saw a dead child.
From tke "Sun," Augvn 20, 18'4.
MADAMB TKCMB1''s SotaBB-MBSHBRISH.-Tbecelebrated clai""'tlante,
the Marquise de San Milan Tecmen, gave laet evening a aoiree mumerique,
at her elegant residence, in Baker-~treet, Portman-~uare. The experiment•
commenced at nine o'clock, when the drawing-rooms were crowded with the
elite of the rank and fashion still remaining in town. In the lint Instance
the Marquiee undertook to try her actitJe powers of mesmerism, before she
proceeded to the grand object of her visitors' curiosity-the exhibition of
those phenomena by which her own mesmeric trances are attended. Accord-
ingly she invited any lady or gentlemen present. who bad never been mes-
merised to submit to the operation at her hands, and thus fairly test her
powers. Two gentlemen accepted the offer. One of them the Marqnise
(after considerable exertion to effect the mesmeric in:duence upon him) de-
clared to be then in a state so far removed from 1usceptibllit7 that it would
be impo11ible to mesmerise him. The other gentleman wae In a few minutes
reduced to the mesmeric sleep by the manipulations of the Marq11ise. No
further experiments of this kind were made, aa the anxiety of the company to
see the lady herself a subject of the mysterious power became Tel')' evident.
Mr. Margrave, of Highgate, w~. we believe, the operator, and the fair
patient was in a few minutes to all appearance buried In a profound and
death-like trance. It was then stated that a lady of rank, who was present,
had bc<>n for some time affticted with paraly~is ofthe right aide, ofwhich she
bad been partially, and that in a great degree, cured by Madame Tecmen'•
mesmeric operations. The lady, with the greatest affability, explained to the
company the particulars of her case, and walked acro91 the room, raising her
arm, extending the lingers, &c., to demonstrate how far the cure bad pro-
gressed in eleven days, from the first curative experiment, when the wae
unable to walk, to raise her arm from her side, or to open her hand. Several
persona then successively placed themselvn in communication with the ap-
parently unconscious Marquise, and as each took her hand, her really beauti-
ful countenance beamed with a peculiar and fascinating expression of life and
tenderne11s. 8he pressed the hand of the patient fondly, and whispered sof'lly
in the ear her conjectures as to the existence of malady, its seat, cause, and
cure. In every Instance but one the patients avowed themselves astonlahed
Digitized by GoogIe
21
beyond expression at the minute accuracy of her reYelations. A gentleman,
however, who was snfferiug from a gun-shot wound In the right hip, the ball
having travened to the left .aide, and had not been extracted, although he
underwent many painful operations, declared that Madame bad failed in her
description of hie condition and seneatione, and that she pointed to the right
groin aa the place where the ball was lodged, whereas he was convinced that
it wae in the nighbourhood of the left groin. On the whole, the experiment•
gave great satisfaction. We beard a widow lady (whom she bad never seen)
in consultation with the clairvoyante. The conversation wae carried on In
French, and In a nry low tone, but with evident earnestness and feeling on
both parts. Madame Tecmtln told the lady ehe would soon get
well-the cause ofher illness was the loes of her husband, who died abroad
(and she stated where), of a broken heart. The effect of this extraordinary
revelation on all present may be Imagined. It Is only fair to the English pro•
fessore of this much-disputed mystery to atate, that laet evening we were
present at another mesmeric re-union at the house of Mr. Halse, medical
electrician, Pelham-crescent, Brompton, and there a clairvoyante, Mi11
Taylor, mesmerised by Mr Holmes, a professor ofthe alleged science, made
revelations far surpassing, in their extraordinary character, to a gentleman
with whose strange case the writer was previously well acquainted, but of
which the young lady could scarcely hBYe known anything.
From the "Morning Post," September 18, 1844·
MESMERISM -Last evening, the Marquise St. Milan Tecman gave
another grand 1oiree me1111erique, at her residence in Baker-street. The CO}ll·
pany was very numerous, and the experiments varied and striking. A para-
lytic patient (a lady) being apparently thrown into the condition called the
mesmeric trance, by the manipulations of Madame Tecmen, and being
ascertained to be insensible to every sign and sound, and to every object
aronnd or in contact with her, at a motion of the Marquise's hand from the
opposite side of the room, rose from her chair without assietance and walked
ateadily towards the Marquise, and then followed her about the room, al·
though the patient was manifestly in a state of sleep or unconecioueness more
profound than ordinary somnambulism. On being restored to the ordinary
atate, the lady stated that she wae progreuively recovering the use of the
paralysed aide. The Marquise bcreelf was, in the course of the evening, sub·
jected to the mesmeric influence, in which state ehe possesses, or ia supposed
to posseu, the mysterious apecialite called " clairvoyance ;" and, indeed, the
revelations which she made to those who, last night consulted her, were sur-
prising, and wholly inexplicable by any ascertained !awe ofnature. To some
Digitized by GoogIe
22
ehe de!!Cribed minutely the condition of their own health, and the eeat, extent,
and duration of dieease, if any. To othe1'8 she deseribed the appearan~e,
stature, age, health, and character of friends at a diatanc•, respecting whom
they pnt the question to her; and tQ one gentleman, or whose occupatlone
and connections, friends or enemies, ehe could not by poesibllity know any•
thing, the Marqui11e (all the time in a profound aleep) detailed occurrence&
which happened to him in a distant country years ago; named the country,
and accurately explained a train of paiuful eeneatlona to which he la subject;
and, to crown the whole, deecribed to him the peraons. at a di1tance, who at
the moment oecupied bis thoughts. To account for these things, and much
more that were wituetl8ed on this occaslou, la im11011sible, but they seemed to
be beyond the 8D8picion of collusion or <kception.
THE MARQUISB LB SAN MILAN TBCMEN, of whoee mesmeric powers
we gave a abort account lo our last week's paper, announces her concluding
IOiree for next Tuesday, Oct. 22nd. We have been inform'ld by parties pre-
lellt at that which took place last Tuesday evening, that the fair clairvoy·
ante'a revelation• upon that occasion were throughout or the moat accurate
and aatlaractory deacription, and under circumstances which rendered collu·
•ion impoeeible.
From tht LondQn " Belk .4.~lee," OctC1ber 6, 1844.
TIM Editre11: Well, fair Secretary, what news have you for 011 in the
way of amuaements ?-The Secretary: I have been several times to Baker-
atreet, to the aoireea of Madame Tecmen, Marquise de San Milan, who i1
l&id to excel in the meemeric art; alao, to be a perfect adept at clai""'fllJ""·
-The Editru1: We have no faith In what its diaciples call clai~11ce, or
as the Scotch say, "second eight." We used to be very sceptical on the aub-
ject of meamerism; but as we have ~n it performed, we auppose we moat
allow, with the old adage, " seeing is believing." Aa to the aupposed gift of
clairvoyance, we moat still &YOW ourselvea unbelieven in ita my1t.eriOU1
revealing&, never haYing, in any one instance, seen it fulfil what it promleed.
-The Secretary: In regard to Mesmerism, or Magneti1m, I h&Te llllell one
inatance in a patient of Madame Teemen'a, which certainly le wonderful; a
lady who had been sulfering from paralysis, for nine yeal'8, and eould not
raiee her lefl arm frooi her aide, under the •pell or inftueuce of magnet.laing
power, raieed the arm with facility above her bead, and ahowed signs ofgreat
Digitized by GoogIe
23
invigoration in the paralieed joints.-'fhe Ed.itrtu: Well ! if Me1meri1m can
be made nN:ful as the anietant and hand-maid to medical ecience it Is well;
but u to the idea of clairooyance we must protest against it, u contrary to
reason, religion, and common sease. Ir we knew of any one instance,
in which the answen of the clairvoyant even approached to the troth, we
should be inclined to pauee, ere we gave so decided au opinion on the subject;
but as, after a minute investigation, we know ofnone, without the as1iltance
of confederatell, we mu1t be pardoned entering our decided protest against its
truth, convinced as we are, it exists only in the imagination of the party,
and the credulity of the spectator! But poor John Bull will swallow any-
tbllig in these daye of steam and intellect !-The Secretary: I fear, Lad7
Editreaa, your remarks w111 be thought severe, I am sure they will be nn-
popular.-The Editreu: Well I we cannot help it; they are the reeult of
careful oblervatiou, and therefore most be, In all houeety, recorded.-
Farewell.
From the "Morning PHt," October 11, 1844.
MBSKBBIC SOIBBB.-Madame Tecmeu'• IOireu 7Mmwriquel, ia Baker-
1treet, ban been more uumerouely attended since the ftnt notice of them In
the MOnling P<Jlt, and on Monday last the rooms were thronged. The young
lady, who baa been often operated on by Madame Tecmen. for the cure of a
paralytic affection, was again thrown into a mesmeric atate by a few puaea,
and moved her arms about to show the comparative freedom of action abe
poaaeuea when nuder magnetic influence. Two gentlemen, were then, at
their own requeat, aubjected to the manipulatioua of Madame Tecmeu ; but
though both are believers in the ·" acience,".and were williug to submit to the
mysterious power, they could not be eubdued. One of the gentlemen ii him-
self a frequent magnetiler, and we understand Madame Tecmen to attribute
the want of success partly to hie poaseesing 10 much ol the magnetic fillid u
to repel the magnetiem isluing from her own finger end• ; the red-coloured
paper of the room she also considered to be, in tome unaccoUJ1table manner,
detrimental to the effect. MadameTecmeu was herself next operated on, and
became speedily in a 1tate of mesmeric cou.a, accompanied by lucidity, which
it termed by meemerists " somuambulilm." A gentleman, who bu many
mesmeric patients, was anxious to consult her respecting the condition ofone
who baa hitherto resisted the curative iutiuence of mesmerism. This patient
ii a female living at Dover, who has been for four years confined to her bed by
what ie usually conllidered a spinal complaint. A lock of her hair waa pre-
sented to Madame Teemen, who pronounced that It was the hair of a young
female, and that she was ill in bed, but in moat other pan¥:ular1 of the case
•
Digitized by GoogIe
24
1be ns mistaken. She stated, for Instance, that the patient had not been to
bed long-that 1be was a relation of the gentleman'-and that he eaw her
daily-neither of which was correct; ~t the latter discrepancy wu a<"counted
for by the elreumstanee that the gentleman sends dally to her at Dover, a
magmti#d gltnle, and that this mesmeric communir.ation deceived the 80m-
uambullet. It wu also stated that the vatlent bad water on the brain, and
could not be cured by mesmerism alone. The medical aid to be applied wu
indicated. The anawera In thla cue appeared not to eatltfy the applicant,
but he wu willing to attribute the want of sucee11 to hie ha•ing mesmerised
many patients in the courae of the day, and their physical atatel might, he
thought, have tended to perturb the lucidity oftt.e aomnambullst, and present
a confuted vl1lon of the peraon Immediately concerned. Madame Tecmen
waa then routed from the mesmeric trance, u her lucidity became obscured.
After a lhort lnte"al abe waa mesmeriled again, and thla time with more
au~. A rentleman autrering from a •ery peculiar atrectlon of mind and
body wu placed en rappqrt, and we underatand that his cue wu Indicated
correctly In eYcry particular. Other locks of hair were presented, on which
Madame Tecmen wu pronouncing when we withdrew. We abstain, ae
before, from making any comment on what occurred ; we merely report
what was eeen and beard. We may, nevertheleea, ft'mark that a IOirh
of thla character, where most of the company are firm belienra in the
m8"el1 of meamerltm, atrordl a curloua subject for speculation to those who
are more eceptical. The extraordinary lnstancet of the etrecte of animal mag-
netism and of clalnoyance which each one hae to relate, and the eerioaa
undoubtlng manner in which they are beard, perplex, excite wonder, and gi'fe
rile to reflectiona reepectinr the difficulty of arriving at truth even from the
e'fidence of those who h&Ye no desire to deceive. Among otbtr notabllla we
heard one gentleman ueert that be hod eeen the open bauda oftwo lndivlduala
eostrongly attracted by animal magnetism that they cooloi not bepulled aeun-
der; another beard a story of a boy 80 powerfully magnetised that hit touch
produced inaensibllity ; and a third atated an inatance of clairvoyance by a
girl who, with her eyes bandaged, in a darkened room, and with no ordinary
mean• of knowing, deacribed moat accurately the crest on a aeal which an-
other penoo held in hie cloaed hand. One gentleman, dlspoaed to apeculate
on the ownir of mesmerlam, suggested the formation of attimal fllOgfletic
'batteriu, by the combination ofseveral magnetised pereona, 80 u to induce
a far higher state of lucidity by the concentrated action ofauch a battery than
any hl&berto known or thought of. Should this project be reallaed, the So-
ciety for the Dltruslon of Uaeful Knowledge would be done np, and all syeteme
of pbiloeopby would become foollshne111 ; a Royal road to learning, illumined
by the foc111 ofmental light, would be opaned, by meant ofwhich we lh~ld
arrl•e with railway epeed at truth• the moet recondite!
Digitized by GoogIe
25
Frum th• " CMlttnlulm Loolter-on," Octolwr 12, 18".
Knxaa11• A1"D ITS MABTBL8. -Madame Tecmen-Dr. o-.-
The announcement of a Mesmeric 10iree was an affair pat' e:i:tellence for a
"Looker-on;" and we, therefore, made It •duty to drop In at No. 14, Royal-
ereecent, on· Tuesday evening, to witness the wonderful performances of
MadaiDe la Marquise de San Milan Tecmen, the most celebrated of modern
eeen. Thia lady le said to aft'ord an unequalled example of that remarkable
1tate to which the adherents of this new eclence have given the name of
tkrirllligance-a state In which It 11 &11erted that the ordinary identity of the
individual 11 placed In abeyance, and a new phase of life, as It were, developed,
in which the powel'll of perception are 10 heightened tl".at knowledge le ob-
tained by a aborter and more direct proce11 than through the onlinary
channela of the senees, these being, at the same time, entirely closed to out-
ward lmpreeslons. Now, strange as such a statement as this appeal'll, at
first sight, we are not dlspoeed to 1et It aside altogether aa unworthy of
credit; and we may say generally that all the a priori arguments which we
ha.e beard adduced against the truth ofMl'smerism, are either based upo'!
the asaumptlon that we know much more about the operations of the mind
and the functions ofthe nenous 1y1tem than we really do, or elae upon the
1uppoaition that the alleged phenomena are utterly opposed to what we do
know, a ground which II no leas untenable than the former. When, therefore,
we hear pel'llODS ridiculing the statementl of the Mesmerlats without Inquiry,
we immediately conclude that they must either know much more, or much
leas, of physiology than the best wrltel'll on that subject; and we have no
doubt the latter la the more common case of the two : indeed, we have often
been utonlshed at the profound ljrnorance of those who pre111me to decide
upon the question, without deigning to bestow a glance at the masa of evi-
dence on which the facts themselves rest, or on the vast accumulation of long
known, but hitherto Inexplicable phenomena, with which they appear to be
allied. But while we thus record our modified adherence to Mesmerism, we
beg not to be mianndel'lltood. We by no means pledge oul'lelvee to a belief
In all the nonsense which Its advocates, from timeto time, have built upon It;
nor do we look upon Its present position ae one bit more respectable than
homa!Op&thy, or the cold water 1y1tem. It Is the quackery of the day; and
bu drawn Into Its vortex all those weak and shallow mind• wliicb are the
natural prey ofthe prevailing folly, be It what It may. It seldom happen•
that these meteoric panaceas, which appearfrom time to time, have not 1ome
portion of troth at the bottom ; bot while the public 1eem determined to
dacry all legitimate investigation as Interfering with their eberilhed privilege
of being duped, we cannot wonder that the medical profe11lon, which, as a
bod;r, Is certainly best qnallfled, by education and experience, to investigate
theelaiml of the new ecience, and aeparate the true from the false facts pro-
duced, 1honld hold aloof till the dro• Is burnt off, and the residuum cool
Digitized by GoogIe
26
enough for a leiaurely examination. We may, perhape, puraae this 1ubject
in a future number, but we must return, for the preeent, to Madame Tecmen.
On entering the room, the appearance it presented wa1 that of a emall even•
Ing party. Madame Tecmen, who le a lady apparently about thirty-ftve or
forty yean of age, rather pretty, and of considerable .llflbmapoint, received ua
with the grace and easy affability peculiar to foreigners. After aome ti.me
the subject of Mesmerism was introduced, when, at the aollcltatlon of
Madame Tecmeu, a lady present consented to submit to the " puses," Ma-
dame being herself the operator; but without any effect being produced. A
p:entleman wee then experimented upon, but with no better eucceee. Madame
Tecmen, who appeared somewhat disappointed at her failure, then aat ·down
herself; and a~r a few paaeee from the hand of the gentleman who accom-
panies her, fell Into a state ofapparent aleep. An invalldgentleman,pl'elent,
was then told to take her hand, and being thus placed en rapport with the
clalnoyante, a conversation ensued, in which she declared the nature of hie
complaints, and the means to be pursued for hie recovery; and ended by
aesuring him of a perfect cure after submitting to Mesmerism fifteen timea.
Some ill-natured people would say that a shrewd person might almo•t have
read hie case at a glance, so great is the amount of information conveyed to a
practised e1e, by complexion, attitude, &c. ; but we only state things as they
occurred. The gentleman having retired, a lady wa1 next placed llfl rapport,
and by her a lock of hair wae handed to the fair clairvoyante, who forthwith
proceeded to describe the malady under which its owner-who was not present
-wae labouriup:. After affirming her to be sul!ject to head-aches, and nm•
ning over the greater part of the body, Madame Tecmen finally declared that
the leg was the part affected, and that it wae enclosed in aome eort ofmachine,
which we have since been informed is really the case; but on further question•
ing,she described a most formidable catalogue ofillsaffectingthe arm, which,
we are tuld, have no foundation. After theee there were several other ex•
perimenh, designed to show the isolated and combined action of the phre-
nological organe ; but the results were, we understand-for we tarried not to
the end-in no respect different from those so often witnessed, and which, we
confess, have never appeared to us perfectly ntisfactory. On the whole, we
must say we were di~appointed with this exhibition. Whether the marvela of
Mesmerism lie true or false, certain it is that its advocates are no adepts in
the art of demonstration ; and we are morally sure that of the number of
persons present on this occasion-about twenty-not one had hie or her opl•
nions, in the slightest degree, altered by what was brought beforethem. Thoee
who wentbelievera,cameaway believers; and those who wenteceptice, certainly
saw nothing calculated to shake their sceptiam. We have devoted ao much
apace to the consideration of Madame Tecmen, thaL we can do no more than
give a paesing notice or the Lectures at the Aasembly Rooms, on the same
subject, b1 Dr. Owens, which have just terminated. This gentleman poaaea-
Digitized by GoogIe
27
ses, in onion with an enthusiastic confidence in the doctrines or Mesmeritm, a
degree of candour which we have not always aeen in preceding lecturers; and
the phenomena which he exhibited in MiH Harper, the troth of which it
would be impossible to doubt, although they afforded nothing new to those
who have seen much or such experiments, furnish abundant justification ofthe
remark.a with which we prefaced these hasty remarks. Madame Tecmen an-
nounces a second 1oiree, for Tuesday evening next.
From tAe " Ckelttnham Looker-on," October 19, 1844.
A MESMBBIO SoIRBB, Intended, it would appear, to aft'ord an oppor-
tunity of witnessing the phenomena Incident to the clairvoyance etate of
animal magnetism, under circumstances more favourable to their develop-
ment than are compatible with the arrangements of a public platform, is
announced for Tuesday evening next, by Madame Tecmen, a lady who, we
are Informed, bas acq11ired considerable celebrity for the 1ucces1 which bas
attended her Mesmeric application• in the cure of various diseuea,-n op-
portunity of proving which, by personal experience, le to be a1f'orded to eocb
of the resldenta and Tisitors of Cheltenham as feel dlspoaed to avail tbem-
selvea thereof, by testing the value of Madame Tecmen's reYelatlont. A
meeting of the medical profession was held at Gloucester.
Frqm the "Morning Pon," January 25, 1845.
MEsKBBISK -Madame la Marquise de San Milan Tecmen, 10 celebrated
for her powere or clairvoyance, embarked on Wednesday for Oatend, en rqute
to Brmeels. She bad for aome time prevlonaly been residing at Cheltenham,
where ebe performed many remarkable cures, scrofula, cancer, and other ma-
Jadlea which have hitherto baftled the skill of the physician, yielding to the
magic touch of the fair mesmeriser. The society of the Marquise wae much
eourted by the elite of the town, and she became at once tbe wonder and orna-
ment of their salons. On her departure she wae loaded with the moat beau-
tiful preeents, and carried with her the regrets ofall those to whom her elegant
mannere bad endeared her. At her lfliree1 ebe wae usually magnetized by
Major Buckley, a gentleman who bas given considerable attention to the new
science, and manifested great mesmeric powers, and under bis pa81e1 la .Mar-
quise became clairwyante to an extraordinary degree. Every one Is an.xious
for her return, which the Marquise has promised shall not be very long de-
layed, and in a letter written by her to Lady -- jut before her departure,
abe saya, "Je quitte la belle Angleterre &Yee le plua vlfregret, et mon bollheu
aera accompli, le jour que je retoarnerai."
Digitized by GoogIe
28
Frorn the ".A.ge tm4 .A.rgu1," .A.pril:;, 1846.
MBIKERISM, AND THE MARQUISE OF SAN MILAN TECMBN.-Our readers
will remember that in January last we announced the departure of the cele-
brated Marquiee San Milan, the lady who, in her state of 111111n1Jmbulique
clairt10gance, bu been able to restore to health and happlneaa 110 many per-
sona aftli.cted with dlseaaee of long atanding. Amongst the patlenta she had,
u we stated, 11ucceaafully treated, there were aevenLl caaea ofcancer, scrofula,
and other maladies that had baftled the aklll of medical science. We are
happy to hear that the Marquise is Juat returned from the continent, where
the same suCCHa has attended her during her atay, and that she will again
employ the extraordinary gift granted to her by Providence, for the benefit of
the aftlicted. Magnetiam and Somnambulism are 1object11 now considered of
llO much Importance, that we shall publish some particulars of the astonish-
ing curea elfected in a abort time by this far-famed clairt10gante, a11 we deem
it a duty to give a reader all the information that may enlighten him, and
alford him the means of being the arbiter in hia own cue. The Marquiae, we
understand, will accord consultations every day from twelve o'clock till four
in the afternoon, and we are informed, also, that she intends to receive her
friends at her mesmeric l<lireu every Friday evening at eight o'clock, at her
residence, 52, Manchester-street, Manchester-square, and we feel confident
that all who are fortunate enough to obtain admittance will derive the.highest
gn.tlflcation from the Interesting experiments which they will witnese.
From the " Morning Pon."
MBSKBBIC So1REE.-On Friday last, we attended a mesmeric 1t1irie at
the residence of La Marquise de la San Milan, to which a limited company
was invited. The Marqoiae having been pot into the mesmeric state a gentle-
man present was brought en rapport with her, and was told many mattere of
which perhaps he was not formerly aware. His heart was rather small, dis-
coloured, and •nrroouded with fat; he was troubled with palpitation, had "
difficulty in breathing, and wu prescribed for accordingly by the fair disciple
of Mesmer. 'l'he diseaae preaerlbed waa certainly correct, and altogether the
exhibition was one of thoae wonders which we so often see in mesmerism, and
which are 10 hard to believe.
From the ".A.ge and .A.rgu1," .A.pril 25, 1845.
A PRIVATE MEBMBBIC SOIRBE AT TRB RBBIDBNCE OF TBB MARQUIIB
DB SA?r MILAN TBCMBN.-From our own Reporter.-Several friends and
acquaintances to the number of about forty·five, having already heard of,
Digitized by GoogIe
29
or witnessed, meemeric erperiments, were deairous of seeing the magnetic
trance oCtbe above named celebratfod Somnambuliet-so often the theme of
public attention. One evening last week, as agreed, we met at No. 31'>,
Baker-street, Portman-square, the residence of the fair Sibyl. Some ofthe
party were inclined to suppose, that the person so much spoken of for her
mysterious power, was a lady to whom years ohtudy in the dark science
bad giventhe appearance of age, and whose beauty bad undergone the changes
brought on by inexorable time; in a word, that they were going to stare at
a Cassandra. They were much gratified, however, at seeing a handsome
woman in the prime of life, whose elegant deportment and pleasing manner
were conapicuoua in the reception ofher guests. The experiments began by
the Marquiae undertaking to try her active powers of Mesmerism before she
proceeded to the grand object of our curiosity : vis., the exhibition of thoee
phenomena by which her own mesmeric trances are attended. She, there·
fore, invited any lady or gentleman present, who had neverbeen mesmerised,
to submit to the operation at her hands, and thus fairly test her powen.
After some hesitation, a gentleman accepted the oft'er; before many passes
however, had been made, he owned to being in a state so far removed from
auaeeptibility, that it would be impossible to mesmerise him. A lady, dis·
tinguished by rank and beauty, then consented to undergo Madame's mani·
pulaUona, observing at the same time, that several powerful mesmerisers bad
ninly exerted themselves to make her feel anything like what she conceived
magnetism to be-not so this time. Shortly she appeared a statue, and in
about twenty minute• was found to be in a deep mesmeric sleep. A state of
happiness was depicted on her features, and hM voice sounded melodiously
when she answered her fair magnetiser-" I am so happy,so happy, indeed,
that I cannot explain my feelings, something heavenly overwhelms me."
When questioned if she would be awaked, she entreated "to be left very
long in that state." Madame told us that by certain Indications she was
sure the lady, now under the mesmeric influence, would poBSeaa a certain
degree of clairvoyance, if she continued the passes ; they were then con·
tinned, and another symptom was visible, peculiar to mesmerism ; that was
the power of attraction, which caused the unconscious sleeper's bead to tum
towards her magnetiser aa she moved to and fro; at last a deep sigh an·
nounced that she had entered the wonderful precincta of that never-ex-
plained existence called 1omnanbuli.fm. We were delighted to witness such
marvellous eft'ects, and asked the Marquise to allow us also to addreas some
questions to the belle mdormie. A Russian noblemen, of our number, wu
then put en rapport with her; he was surprised as she burst into a fit of
laughter, and told him that he wu about shortly to marry, and that his pre·
sent wish was to know if his young bride would Jove him, adding, " that his
desire wai ditJicult to comply with, as she waa not allowed to explain to him
Digitized by GoogIe
30
what she knew." The gentleman, in spite of his incredulity, acknowledged
that everything she said was true. It is but fair to state that the gentleman
in question was quite unacquainted with the mesmerised lady, as well as with
most of the other members of our party, and had therefore not mentioned to
anybody the particulars alluded to by her. Madame would not allow any
more questions to be put to her, lest she should be too much fatigued, and
immediately proceeded to counteract the manipulations by which the mes-
meric sleep had been induced. When the influence was thrown off and the
spell di'persed, the colll'ageous lady coula scarcely believe what had pas•
sed during her trance. The testimony of her own father, who was present,
was necessary to certify the truth of our own report. No further experi-
ments of this kind were made, as we were now all anxious to see the Mar·
quise herself, as a subject of the same mysterious power. She readily com·
plied, observing, however, beforehand, that it was necessary for the com·
pany not to stand too close to her chair, whilst in the somnarubulic state, as
it prevented" Lucidity." She informed us also of the proper way of con-
sulting and that she was willing to give any consultation on serious things,
but that medical questions were particularly within the reach of her clair-
voyance. This latter fact is corroborated by several surprising cures that
Madame has effected in this country, and which have been publicly attested
by the press and various eye witnesses. After these preliminaries, her bro-
ther, a gentleman whose carriage betrays the former soldier together with the
man of society, operated upon the Marquise, who in a few minutes was, to
all appearance, in a profound sleep. A particular friend of mine, wishing to
consult her, was directly put en rapport with her. He anxiously desired to
obtain news of a sick person ; he, therefore, transported her in spirit to a dis-
tant country, which she immediately declared to be Moldavia, and entering
a house there she descried his father : " I see your father," said she, "sitting
in a Gothic arm-chair; his legs are enormously swollen; he is dropsical. Oh.
mon Dieu ! he talks nonsense like a child. He is insane, poor man; he has
lost.his reason." My friend sighed deeply on listening to this, and ac-
knowledged its reality, as, unfortunately, but too true. We could not re·
press the interest we all felt in such a scene. She went on describing the
house, the town in which it was situated, its various monuments, and the
costume of the people in the streets, a narrow canal winding round an old
castle, and everything was so accurate he was astounded at such a lucidity.
But it ~·as not yet enough, and she continued,-" You know that your bro-
ther is very ill; I see a letter from him in your pocket. Why don't you
consult me about him 1 I see him conveyed to an hospital, and I am the
only person capable of savinghim. He will go mad, for he has a brain fever."
My companion quite terrified got up and drew out of his pocket-book the
very letter he had that day received, and by which he had learned, that, on
Digitized by GoogIe
31
account of a most violent attack offever, his brother was about to be re-
moved to an establishment for the cure of fever, newly erected for the no-
bility and gentry of the country. The consultation was too accurate to lean
any doubt on our minds as to the truth of the existence of something unac·
countable in Mesmerism-let us call it Clairvoyance, Lucidity, Somnambul·
iam, or wha.tenr we plea.ae. Collusion there could have be11n none; a.nd,
consequently, we felt obliged to believe. We bad two more consultations,
but.not so striking, although sa.tisfactory; and when the Marquise was de·
mesmerised we retired, much pleased with her personally, as well a.a her won-
de1ful endowment, which will ever remain profoundly impressed on the
tablets ofourmemories. One of the Party."
From the "Morning P08t," May 2, 1845.
So.KNAHBULIBM.-" I attest that Mrs. Crawley, my consort, baa been,
during many years, labouring under a moat desperate disease,and that, under
the skilful treatment of the renowned Marquise of San Milan Tecmen, she
baa been cured in the short period of two months, when some of our first
phyaiciana had failed to afford any relief in five years.-A. Crawley,
Chepstow, April 28, 1845." Madame La Marquise of San Milan, of whose
rare celebrity the London newspapers have often spoken, giving accounts of
the wonderful cures she has effected, has arrived in town, and will give Con-
sultations daily, from twelve till four o'clock, at her residence, 35, Baker-
atreet, Portman-square. A Soiree Mcsmerique every Friday evening at eight
o'clock, for which tickets may be had only at Baillit\re'a, foreign bookseller,
219, Regent-street.
From the " New ..4.ge," May 24, 1845.
CLAIRVOYANCE.-On the 26th of April, La Marquise de San Milan
received in London a letter from a gentleman at SchaWhausen, detailing the
following facts: At four o'clock in the morning ofthe 5th ofMarch his house
was entered, and his daughter, a little girl of eleven years old, taken away.
As soon as he discovered his Joss, he made it known to the police, who did
all in their power to find the young larly, but without success; As a last
resource, the affilcted parent wrote to the Marquise, requesting her to try her
clairvoyant powers. Accordingly, the Marquise waa thrown into the mesmeric
trance, and while in that state,gave so accurate anddetailed a description of
the place where the lost child was concealed, that Dr. FrelJle, the rhyeician
of the family, by following the directions given by the somnambulist, dis-
covered her concealed in a houee nineteen leagues from her paternal residence,
and brought her back in triumph to her father.
Digitized by Google
From tlu "Bnglvh Gentlema•'," Ma11 24, 1845.
CLUBVOT.o\l.CB-WONDBBPtrL, IP TBtrB.-Extract f'rom a letter from
Schaft'haaHD.-My Dear - Vh•e la clal"oyance I I don't aak you to
believe what I am now going to narrate, for I think It too wonderful for
human credence, bnt, nevertheleu, nnlese my own eyf!ll and ears have de-
ceived me, it ie aa true aa that I am now writing to yon. You know old
8- and hie pretty little daughter, you were eo fond of playing with last
year; that dear little child that every one admired, and who wae the pet of
all who vielted at the boUlle. Her eleventh birthday waa approaching and
~t preparations were made for lte celebration, when one floe morning her
father ruabed Joto our bowie In a 1tate of distraction, and Informed us tbat
hie daughter waa nowhere to be found. It waa the 5th of March, and from
what be could collect be believed hie bouee bad been entered at 4 o'clock in
the moming and his child carried away. Well, we were all on oar legs In an
instant, and every policeman In the town waa eet upon chaee, but without
effect; day after day paaeed and still no tidings could be obtained. We once
thought that we had found her, a strange child, about the same age, having
been discovered in a cottage eome leagues from the town, bnt It turned out to
be the daughter of old Schlo89waaeer, the pork butcher, who bad lost her
way In returning from her aunt'• Where ebe bad been ependlng a few days.
We were now approaching the middle of April, and no tidings could be ob-
tained; the father wu In despair, and we had ceased to give him even
advice or coneolatioo, when old Schmidt, whom we used to nickname the
Weltweieer, proposed to call a council ofwar at bis house. The proposition
was accepted, and that very evening we were all assembled around bis blazing
hearth, and looking as wise as oar huge meerschaums could make us. In
England, I am told, you aaalgn to the wig the eeat of wisdom, while here we
attribute It to the pipe, and, If appearances are to be the criterion, I think
we are nearer the truth, for what man does not aaaume a sager and a graver
aspect, while inhaling and dispelling vaat clouds of emoke from bis tobacco
furnace? Vive la pipe I say I ; but what baa all this to do with -•s lost
child1 Well, yon shall bear. We were all attention; silence bad reigned
for eome time, when the Weltweiser removed his pipe f'rom bis month, from
which iuned a long curling cloud of milk-white smoke, and when that bad
passed away, he solemnly uttered, "Try mesmerism." "Try your grand-
mother," I replied; but the pipe wu again In bi1 month, and not another
word could we obtain. The oracle had, however, spoken, and we now
puzzled ourselves to interpret lte dictum. Some of ua bad never beard of
mesmerism, while·others had only aeen young ladles sent to sleep or thrown
Into strange convulsions, by certain rldlcnlous movements made by a bearded
mountebank ; but bow mesmerism wae to flnd the lost child we none of u1
could imagine. After a few vain suggestion• we relapsed ·into our former
Digitized by GoogIe
33
•
1ilence, putFed out the 1moke, and 1011ght a solution of the difficulty in the
aacending clouds. At midnight we eeparated, and the nex• mol'lling, full of
the oracle, I eought the relldence of Dr. Freille, our friend'• phy1ielan, and
related to him what had occurred, expecting him to join with me in a laugh
at the expenae of the Weltweiaer. Te my great astonishment, howeYer, he
received the intelligence In eober eadne8111 and after a few mlnutee'
reflection replied-" I have eeen eomething of meemerlsm, and h.ave
more faith in it than perhaps I am willing to allow. It ii not
long llince I wu at Brueaels, and there at the Hotel de Belle Vue, I
met a lady, the Marquise de San Milan, who, while in the meemerio trance,
pve me an accurate description of my hoUlle In this town, and what the dif.
ferent membere of my family were doing at the time. I will write to her at
once aad uk her to try her powerein the eearch." "Well, doctor," I re-
plied, "do ae you like, but I mmt owu I have not much faith in thele
mesmeric wonders." The doctor, however, kept hia word, and In about a
fortnight afterwards entered my room with a letter In hie hand. It wu dated
35, Baker-street, 25th April, 184.5. It wu from the Marquiae de San Milan.
She stated that the doctor'• letter had only reached her that momlng, after
following her fl'9m Bru11ele, through Antwerp, Paris, and eome other towm,
to London, where ehe wu then living. She loet no time, however, in throw-
ing heraelf Into a meamerlc trance, and sent a detailed acconnt of the route
the child had been taken, and the place where she then was. She said, that
the little girl was confined in a large conntry house, about 20 leaguea dletant,
and indicated the epot so exactly, that there could be no difficulty In finding
it. Notwithstanding my quizzing, the doctor immediately started for the
plaee indicated, and the next evening he had the laugh against me, for he
returned with our friend's child. If the Doctor were not himself the thief,
which it is impoe1ihle for a moment to euppoae, there must be eomethiug more
'twixt hea'fen and earth than ie dreamt of in philoeophy. Old Weltweiaeer
has rieen twenty per cent. in our eatimation. • • • • • •
An account of thia wonderful diecovery appeared alto in Tiu ...tge and the
CMUmham Bzaminer.
Ts• C.u• OF Miii MuT TB.!UfY801f, 816ter of th4 Poet /AMTeat.-
'J'hls yoaug lady fell from the IU'IDI of her nul'lle, when ehe wu about a yeu
old, and the woman, in her endeavour to a&'fe her, dillocated her arm
ud broke her leg, after which the arm beeame paraliled and the leg shrunk
IO that the ehild wae obliged to wear a high ehoe, a11d when she grew up one
leg wu half a foot longer than the other. She could not walk. Till the
wu tweoty•ftve yeare of age, thi1 lady wae under the care of a variety ofmedi-
cal men, of the S.nt ekru and eminence, but nothing could be done for her,
c
Digitized by Google
34
•
and the case waa conaidered hopeleu. The patient haTing heard of many re--
markable curee performed by the Marchioneaa of San Milan, determined to
make one more trial and apply to her, which she did, and the Marchlonesa
undertook the case, to test the power of mesmerism-this was about a year
since. For six months the patient waa meamer!aed every day, for an hour,
at the end of which, her shoe having been gradually lowered, ehe waa able te
walk in a shoe of little more than the ueual thickneu, which, up to that time,
ahe had neYer before in her life done. The eame treatment was continued,
and in three months afterwarda she recoYered the uee of her arm, and ahe can
now do anything with it. She le perfectly reatored, having but a Yery alight
appearance of lameneas in her walk. MISll Tennyson attested with the most
liTely gratitude, the wonderful cure which had been performed for her by the
Marchionese of San Milan, whom she considers in the llgM of a slater. Her
address ii IO, St. Jamea's-equare, Cheltenham, where the truth ofthia state-
ment can be fully known.
From the "MMning Herald," Wedne1day, June 4, 1846.
The Marchioness de San Milan held her fourth 1eance at her houee in
Baker-street, on Friday evening, which waa attended by a large and distin-
guished audience, among whom were many foreigners of distinction. The
marchioness intends continuing her soireu.
From the "CheUenham E:eaminer," Wednuday, October 22, 1846.
CLAIRVOYANCB.-Our readers will peruse with considerable interest the
details, furnished by Col. Gurwood, of the astonishing reaults of the clair-
Toyant revelations of Alexis. The particulars are given in our fourth page ;
and the Colonel's high standing in society, and his literary and military
character, render bis testimony one of the most valuable acquisitions which
the meameric science baa yet received. We are pleased to observe that ano-
ther celebrated clairvoyant, Madame La Marquise of San Milan Teemen, bu
again taken up her abode in Cheltenham, and we have no doubt that many
hopeleas patients pining after health, will hasten to teat her curative powers.
We have been informed that in her somnambulic state, ebehas discovered
powerful means to cure the following numerous complaints however chronick
they may be, as cancers, ulcers, paralysis, fits, insanity, gastritis, consump-
tion, stone, spinal affections, fistula, scrofula, gout, rheumatism, scurvy,
eryelpelaa, dropsy, cutaneous diseaeee and wounds, and that teatimoniala of
the highest respectability will aatiefy the sceptic.
Digitized by GoogIe
35
Prom the" Cheltenham Examiner," November 12, 184;';.
THE MIRACLBS OP MBSMBRISM.-We are attborized to publish another
wonder of clairvoyance, which cannot but Interest believers and even un-
believers, on account of the position in society of the persons with whom that
strange faculty was exercised; and-as in the case of Col. Gurwood, which
lately we Inserted In ourcolumns-it vouches for the strict truth ofthe relation.
Mrs. T. Somerville Wood, one of them, is a lady of great intellect and lofty
ideas, sister to the learned chief magistrate at Bow-street police-court, and
mother of the Hon. Mn. Leicester ~tanhope, and many ofour readers are doubt-
less acquainted with Miss JaneRoberts, by reading the novels and miscellaneous
writings for which we are indebted to her distinguished pen. Mrs. H-t, an
English lady, had given to her by a clergyman, in 1787, a lock of the hair of
King Edward the IV., cnt from his head when his remains were looked into
at Windsor. This she (Mrs. H.) bad placed In a handsome locket, clustered
with brilliants; and in 1845, on being taken by her friend, Mrs. T. S. Wood,
to a mesmeric seance at the Marquise of San Milan Tecmcn'a, In Baker-street,
was given by Mrs. Wood.to Mias J. Roberts, the authoress, who bad been put
en rapport with La Marquise, when she, after a longer period than she usually
takes, (the hair being under glass) exclaimed, " it is the hair of a tall man,
with a large and clever, but not moral head.'' Miss J . Roberts looked towards
.Mn. Wood to know "if it were correct?" Mrs. Wood nodded aS1ent. La
Marqnise then proceeded, " he (the owner of the hair) looks as stiff and
cold as marble, and insects are crawling about and in his eyes, I see something
like a statue." Miss Roberts again looked at Mrs. Wood, who said, in a1ota
voice, "it is very likely true;" and ere she finished the sentence, the Marquise
in agony, screamed, went into hysterics, flung the locket on the carpet, and
exclaimed, " You have given me the hair of a dead man; oh, mon Dieu ! why
did you do so ?" and for.four or five minutes it required all her mesmeriser's
energies to soothe and appease her. N.B. She always or generally goes off
into hysteria, whenever the hair of a dead person is put into her hand while in
the trance. This Is a most curious case, which, in addition to so many others
daily $poken of, will 1trongly contribute to establish the belief in the pheno-
mena of mesmerism.
From the "Cheltenham Examiner," N01Jember 19, 1845.
A VBRY EXTRAORDINARY CURE PERFORMED BY J.'tfaD.U!E LA MAR·
QUlBE OP SAN MILAN TECMEN.-To the Editor o( the Cheltenham Ex-
aminer.-! think it a duty I owe to.the public, and at the same time testifying
my gratitude to the lady,to give a brief narration of a seriousdisease Ilaboured
under for some time,-a most obstinate case oferysipelas. The London faculty
were consul\ed without success,-tbe complaint at length. became habitual
c 2
Digitized by GoogIe
36
auirerlng; and I submitted to the will of our Maker patiently. In NoYember,
1844, I bad the bapplneta to bear of a lady who bad arrived at Cheltenham,
and bad performed aome wonderful cures ; and I am happy to state that with
the blessing of the Almighty and mesmerism, I am entirely cured, no aymp-
toms whatever remaining of the dileue. I cannot express my gratitude to
Madame la Marquise better than by making public her extrao?dinary talenta
for curing diaeaaee that have baffted the skill of eminent medical men. Any
penon referring to me, I shall feel great pleasure in stating every particular
relative to the disease and the cure. M. Merriatt, 6, St. James'a-terrace, St.
James'• Church, Cheltenham.
Fr<Jm the " Cheltenham Ezaminer," December 17, 1845.
TBB UNDBRKBNTlONBD CuaB W81 the result of a consultation from a
lock of hair, sent from Leeds by the patient to Madame la Marquise of San
Milan Tecmen, in London :-" I feel it a pleasure to acknowledge the great
benefit I deri•ed Jut year from your acbice, and to ttate that when you told
my state ofbealtb,and eojuatly described my case,by means ofa lock ofhair,
I found the baths you prescribed of essential benefit to me; their powerful
composition cured me of the acute pain from which I had so long tu1fered,
only leaving a certain weakness there which obliges me to be careful. I could
not walk a step before consulting you, but after following your prescriptions
for a fortnight, could walk about the house without pain. Wishing you every
tuccesa, I remain, &c. A. E. Roberta.-Leeds, Dec. 6, 1845.
From the " Cheltenham Ezaminer,'' January 7, 1846.
MBSKBRISM:.-Tbe following is the copy of a letter written to Madame la
Marquise of San Milan Tecmen, and we feel a pleasure in pnbllabing ita con-
tents, which give an account of a wonderful cure performed lately by the
above lady, at her residence in London, wben a select number witnessed the
proceedings :-"My dear Madame,-! beg to testify my best thanks to you
for the very great benefit I have received from the e1fect of mesmerism per-
formed by.yourself on me, on the 24th ult. when I bad the honour of attend-
ing your IOiree, which circumstance yon may probably recollect. On the
following morning I had occasion to thread a needle, which I did with-
out the aid of my glasses ; I beg to assure you I have not been able to see the
most trilling thing without them for the Jut five years. I can now read an7
common print or writing without their aid. As a proof of the •me, I wu
Digitized.by GoogIe
37
giTing a French leNOn to Miu Emma Stanley a few days previous, having
left my spectacles at home, I could not decypher a eingle letter, coDSeqoently
wu obliged to gin the Ieeeon In conversation, and on Monday Jut I read to
my pupil without glaa1e& to 1how her the wonderful effect of mesmerism in
me. I regret much not being able to state these particulars penonally to you,
huing lately lost a much ..-alued friend. Believe me, dear Madam, your'•
truly obliged, Rachel Maguire.-9<>, Charlotte-street, Bedford-equare."
From the "Cheltenham E:eaminer," June 3, 1846.
MBSKBBISJ( AND ITS PBOGRESs.-A pamphlet OD Maguetiam has been
published eome time put by Dr. W. Gregory, profesaor of chemietry, at the
University of Edinburgh, which is very likely to make many converts to the
principles of mesmer; it i1 a tranelation from the German, and its author,
Baron von Reichenbach, maintain• that he has by a series of experiments,
scientifically conducted, found out the real nature of magnetism both ter-
restrial and animal. Hie diecoveriet, If they go to this extent, will furnish
us with the long wished for meane of explaining 1ati8factorily several, until
now, obecare phenomena exhibited DDder the mesmeric inJluence, and render
leea surprising those astonishing cures from time to time mentioned by the
press. Our readers will remember that we have ounelves published several
caees of diseaees supposed incurable, but which were alleged to be overcome
by the ekUI of a profeeeional mesmerist lady residing at 18, Rodney Terrace,
in tllis town. The·Marquise of San Milan Tecman, whom we allude to, po1-
&ellle8 meamerism and somnambulism in a very high degree. We have been
informed that the consultations which she give• daily in her somnambulic
1tat.e are rem&Tkable, not only in reference to the exact and minutest deecrip-
tioo of inward .complaints, but also to the prescription• which she orders and
which aeldom fail to relieve, if not to cure. Amongst the cores which have
reached 01 u being uude.rtaken by this lady, the most remukable perhaps
are,- cue of tumour which after having baftled medical skill for yeus,
subsided at lut nuder her wonderful treatment, to the admiration of several
medical gentlemen who had an opportunity of visiting the patient, whom we
shall not l)&me here.-And another of an enormoue white swelling on the
knee, the patient a strong young woman, had suffered for more than eigbt
yean; and been long in the infirmary at Gloucester, and wu pronounced in-
curable, wheo the disease had increased so mnch as to render her totally a
eripple. Since Madame San Marquise hu treated her she is stated to have
wonderfully improved, aud will probably in a short time be able to throw
aeide her crutches, ancl give her benefactreBS the enjoyment of success re-
Digitized by Google
38
wardlug her generosity. We are informed that the curious and invalid who
wish to attend any of Madame's mesmeric 80ireea at her residence, on Friday
evenings, at 8 o'clock, may obtain tickets of introduction at the Montpellier
library : they would, no doubt, by so doing have a better opportunity by ob-
aervlng some of the magnetic phenomena than at public lectures, when, on
account of several causes, experiments do not often convey penuaeion to the
minds·of the hesitating or aceptical.
F,.om the "Cheltenltam Examiner," June 10, 1846.
FACT IN CLA.IRVOYANCE.-Being present on Tuesday, 26th of May, ai
a meameric aoiree, in the house of Madame la Marquise of San Milan Tecmen,
18, Roduey•terrace; that celebrated somnambulist having been magnetized,
abruptly informed a lady, placed en raliport, that her sister (residing in the
eaat of England} waa very ill; on being questioned as to the nature of the
illness, Madame replied that it was illness of the liver ; the lady en
rapport then said that she had heard nothing of this, to which the som-
nambulist again replied that she would hear of It in the next letter. " I
expect a letter to-morrow," ~aid the lady, to which Madame answered, "you
will hear of it then." The following day the clairvoyance of Madame la
Marquise was fully established. The lady above mentioned received from her
sister a letter, which ended by describing a severe bilious attack that had
prevented her from finishing the letter until an interval of five days from the
time of commencing to write it. When the above seance took place here In
Cheltenham, the Jetter could not have been more than two houn gone from
the office where it was posted, about 200 miles off. (Communicated by a
gentleman who has left his name and address.) The foregoing communi-
cation, about the wonders produced by mesmerism, is certainly very sur-
prising, the more so being sent by a gentleman far from being weak minded
or ignorant. He seems to confirm the possibility-nay reality-of the facts
relating to the same mesmerist lady, contained in another communication
which we inserted In our paper of last week. But in consequence of a con-
tradiction In the days mentioned, we made inquiries and are able to state
that the meameric 1oirees arc on Tuesday evenings at eight o'clock, 18, Rod-
ney terrace, the residence of Madame la Marquise of San Milan Tecmen, to
whom it is necessary to apply by letter to obtain a ticket of admission. We
11ave also been informed that this lady gives daily consultation• to patients,
who after having exhausted aH the means afforded by medical science, are at
last induced to try the means furnished by clairvoya11ce. [This _
wonderful
fact appeared also in The Critic, 20th of June, 1846.]
Digitized by GoogIe
39
From the "Cheltenham Ezaminer," July 1, 1846.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.-During the course of last winter,
in oue of the mesmeric 1oiree1 given by the celebrated medical somnambulist,
La Marquise de Sau Milan Tecmen, in her residence, 18, Rodney-terrace, a
lad7 of rank, the Hou. Mn.--, being present, having seen nothing of Ani-
mal Magnet'ilm, and of course a sceptic, permitted a gentleman, who is a
mesmerizer to try upon her, but determined as much as possible to resist the
intluence, she aat down in the full blaze of a lamp, amidst the noise of conver-
sation and of visitorscomh\(.in, but it was in vain; she dropped into the som-
nambnlic sleep which laste'ft about twenty minutes. On her awaking she
appeared surprisejJ and exclaimed "I do believe I have been asleep, how very
strange!" After that she wastput en rapport with the Marquise, and putting a
Torquoise ring into her hand, asked her to be so kind as to tell.her something
or its history. The mesmerized lady, after turning it about In her fingers,
and applying it to her forehead, was silent fur the space of a few seconds.
At last she said "Thia ring was given to you by a iientleman-he is not your
husband, but had very nearly been." She then went on to say that be had
several wounds in his left aide, putting at the same time her hand to her own
aide to intimate the part affected, as if she were feeling-" It is extraoadinary,"
aald she appearing perplexed," but he is very stiff and cold. Oh!" cried she,
after a pause, greatly agitated, "I now see he is dead!" and threw the ring
away from her in horror. The lady, who had not interrupted her by a single
question, but merely assented from time to time, was much amazed, and
scarcely les• agitated, assuring thecompany present that all the somnambulist
had said was perfectly true; she had lost a friend, a Colonel, some time back
who had those wounds in his aide, and the ring was given to her by him some
time before his death. To those who have made mesmeric phenomena their
study this fact will be interesting, for no unprejudiced person looking on
could have doubted its truth, but to those who are blinded by prejudice no
proof would be sufficient-to them we do not address this narrative. (Com-
municated by a lady.J.
From the "Cheltenlwm Ezaminer," August 5, 1846.
MEBMERIBM.-We have been several times able to record some curious
and even wonderful cases of cures attributed to the above agency which were
most of them performed by a lady who lives in our town, at 18, Rodney
Terrace, and who has, for a length of time, acquired much renown amon~st
those who take an interest in that science, and particularly invalids, for
her mesmeric power and also medical clairvoyance, when thrown iuto
Digitized by GoogIe
40
that ~tate called aomnambulic. Madame la Marquise de Sau Milan Tecmen,
to whom we allude, has just achieved, in twenty days, the complete cure of
a man who for two years bad been suffering from a total contraction of the
right hand, which he could not open, and of the same foot, ita effects being
felt 118 far 118 the shoulder and the knee, which were also both extremely stUF.
In vain did some medical men try to relieve him, and a long stay at the
Cheltenham Dispensary produced no change In the contraction, In spite of
the care and humane management that distinguiahes It: at last some chari-
table persons, of high respectability, who helped blm to support a de!tltote
family, after bis dismissal from the above place. recommended him to the
lady mentioned, who kindly restored him to he~ltb. The name of the man
11 Benjamin Ashley, some of the parties who witnessed the fact we are only
allowed to give their directions,-27, Imperial Square; Novar Lodge, Pitt·
vllle; 6, Oxford Parade ; where persona Interested and doubting Its truth or
wlahlng for more particulars, would obtain all the information required. This
intereltlng cure shows the Importance of a projected plan very llke~y to suc-
ceed, which is the establishment in London of a mesmeric infirmary for the
poorer clll88el, amongst the promoters of which we have seen the names of
eeTeral noblemen, of high dlatlnetion, whose philanthropic zeal ls certainly
dese"lng the greatest praise.
From tlu " Clu!ltml&am B:eaminw1" NOf'llmlber 25, 1846.
MBSKBJUsx.-We understand that the Marquise San Milan Tecmen, is
arrived from Switzerland, at her residence, 18, Rodney-terrace, where she
will continue to give medicalconsultations daily from twelve to three o'clock.
Patienta are requested to give a few days previous notice, in OTder that they
may not be disappointed, as the Marquise has at present many engagements.
We well know, from certificates which have been already published, that
the celebrated clairvoyante, Madame la Marquise de San Milan Tecmen has,
during the last few years, performed many wonderful cures in this country,
and, has, in several instances, restored to perfect health patients who had
long previously been und~r the hands of the first physicians, without receiv·
ing any benefit. She has also been very successful in many cases during her
recentjoumey to Switzerland, whither she went to pay a visit, after a long
absence, to her father, Colonel Theubet. But, perhaps, the most remark-
able o{ all was the completely curing in two months her brother, Capt. Theu-
bet, after he had been suffering from consumption and ulceration of the
lungs for more than a year, during which time he had availed himself of the
best medical adTioe, which London could afford, without effecting the least
change in his distressing aymptoms ; and as the Captain was at the time re-
Digitized by GoogIe
..
41
1iding with his elater in Cheltenham, we ha'l'e no doubt that many of your
readers have witneued his sufferings, and hia subsequent complete restora-
tion to health. In the city of Bale, where Col. Theubet resides, there wu
at the time the Marquise arrived there a person who had been aftlicted
for nine years with contractions in all his limba, and who was so much
reduced as to be unable to walk, even with the assistance of crutches. La
Marquise, however, by the power of magnetism, effected a complete cure.
Her clairvoyance and magnetic powers are extraordinary, and well merit
the attentive consideration of the facl\lty, as the insight they might thereby
obtain into the hidden seai of disease could not fail to be extremely useful,
evea were the prescriptions of la Marquise to give place to their own. Her
charity and goodness of heart, which is evinced by the kindness she has
con1tantly shown towards the poor, must gain her the esteem and respect
of the highest society in England. Although a young widow with consider-
able persoaal attractions, she seems to shun the pleasures of the world for
the purpoae of devoting herself to doing good to othera, in which her greatest
happiness appears to consist. Her delight is in the beautiful and intellec-
tual, and though her way of living may now be a little too severe and sombre
1et the close of her existence will be the more glorious, from tlae great good
which she has been able to effect upon earth.-Communicated.
From "The Bra," Dtcember 6.
MBsKERISK.-The celebrated mesmeriser and clairvoyant, laMarquise de
San Milan Tecmen, has just returned _to Cheltenham, after an absence of
three months on the continent. Her healing powers had produced so wonder-
ful and rapid an effect, that finding all her patienta restored to perfect health,
she took the opportunity of recruiting her own by a abort vialt to her native
country, during which, she completely cured a person who had auft'ered for
nine yeara with contracted joints, and whowasunable to walk even with the U8e
of crutchea. Her cures are performed in two different manners; first, by mes-
merising the patient, and healing him by mean1 of the magnetic fluid; and
aecondly, by being thrown herself Into the mesmeric trance, and in that state
(in which ake is perfectly clairvoyante) can see the whole ofthe Interior ofthe
human body, prescribing, by a kind of magnetic inapiration, the appropriate
remedy. In this manner ahe has completely reatored to health several per-
sons who bad previously been given up by the first physicians of the day.
Tm! RAPID CuaB OP A CABB OP ScUTIC.t..-Mrs. Lft, living at Ne. 9,
Paragon Parade, Cheltenham, bad long auifered from riolent pai111of8ciatlca,
Digitized by GoogIe
42
for the cure of which varioua medical men bad been consulted, butwithout
eft'ect. At length the patient was pel'l1l&ded to try mesmerism, and the Mar-
ehioness of San Milan was applied to. The patient received auch immediate
and great relief that an entire cure waa eft"ected in ftye days, and without any
111beequent return of the malady. «'hla cure la fully atteated both by Mrs.
Lea and her daughter.
From the "Cheltenham E:raminer," December 16, 1846.
MESKERISM.-lt is well known in our town how very successful Madame
la Marquiae ofSan Milan Tecmen has been in many cases of diseases, repu-
ted incurable, which sh~ cured or relieved by the above agency, and her
wonderful Clairvoyance. Many a sceptic, who baa witnessed it, has turned
a zealous adherent, and now admits it was a good inspiration to have called
at her residence, 18, Rodney-terrace, as convictions have enabled them also
to relieve suft'erings, each in his own sphere. One of them has communicated
to us the following copy of a letter relating to the nearly achieved cure of a
young man of26 years of age, totally paralysed since 10 years, and whose
very fingers had shrunk to one-third of their natural length, the whole frame
being reduced to a mere skeleton :-" Madame la Marquise.-! think it use.
ful to give you an account of the progress made by our patient since you left
this place; also of the symptoms which accompany it, as both are remark&· 4
ble enough. · You remember, Madame, that after you mesmerised our son
Eugenius, and in consequence of the treatment you were so kind as to order
in your mesmeric state, he had a ·cutaneous eruption, and began, although
very slowly, to recover a little strength. I am happy to inform you now
that the rash still comes out, and that, together with his strength, he also
recovers flesh. His eye is more lively; and his complexion has turned
clear and animated again ; he is enabled already to raise his arms and hands
as high as the head, and even upon it ; the fingers, which had nearly disap-
peared, extend again, and he can shut his fist. Witnessing such unexpected
results, we can only give thanks to the inftnite divine ProvidenCP. and its
agent, and have the greatest confidence that poor Eugenius will soon be able
to act as the rest of mankind ; as for him, he is full ofhope, and will owe you
a second life; yes, madame, all was nearly dead in him excepting the mind,
and we were expecting with resignation a catastrophe which alone could put
a stop to his suft'erings. Was not our loss of hope justified by the useless
attempts of eminent medical men, during ten years, to cure or relieve, when,
in spite of such vain efforts, the disease increased daily? I expel far from
my motherly heart those frightful scenes, and come again, Madame, to en-
treat you to think of our patient,-to look at him in your state of clairvoy-
Digitized by GoogIe
43
ance, and to tell me then if we are to follow the same treatment still, as he
is on the point of t;lking the few remaining medicaments which you had
prescribed."-lt is most desirable that all cases·of cures by mesmeric agency
should be published, in order that the unhappy beings who are doomed to
despair and death by the restricted means in the reach of medical men,
should not lose all hope, and be persuaded to make at least a trial of that
powerful, though mysterious, power called Mesmerism.-Communicated.
From the "Cheltenham Ezaminer.''
CLAIRVOYANCE.-To the Editor ofthe Cheltenham Examiner.-Sir,-
1 am a believer in Mesmerism ; the phenomena produced on cert!-in indi-
viduals of susceptible constitution, have only to be witnessed, in the hands
ofcareful and honest experiments, to demonstrate the truth of the influence
in question. These I have often seen, and, therefore, must believe the testi-
mony of' my own eyes, The explanation of these wonders is another matter;
theory and apriori reasoning shed no light on this obscure subject; stagger-
ing as the facts are we must admit them, and refuse in the mean time all
conjectures as to the lww and why. But there is another branch of the sub-
ject still more intricate and hard of belief. Here I held out :obstinately
against all testimony; assigning much to an excited imagination in both par-
ties-honesty, candour, justice, however, compel me to avow my error, to
retract my unbelief, to testify to afact however decided, however repudiated
by those who have not had a demomtration of it, as I was fortunate ·enough
to have the other day in this town. Being very anxious about some family
matters ofgreat moment, which being transacted at a distance, and being as-
sured, on the testimony of several highly respectable individuals resident
here, of the good faith, integrity, accuracy of that eminent mesmerist and
clairvoyante, La Marquise de San Milan Tecmen (whose extraordinary.
cures and revelations have been so often attested in the London papers), I
repaired a few days ago to her residence, 18, Rodney-terrace. A time was
fixed on; and the lady put into the somnambulic state. Taking her hand,
and asking her to conduct me, in spirit as it were, to the place and scene
about which I was anxious; judge of my astonishment, in having the whole
facts of the affair, even to the description of house and person·, accurately
pourlrayed to me. Among other things, two friends had fallen sick, their
illness, and the catue of it was minutely and correctly described. The next
post brought the confirmation of that which I had learnt so mysteriously the
day before. Comment in this case is unnecessary, any doubters I will
Digitized by GoogIe
44
1!18.tiafy personally. I have authorised the lady in question to give my name
and address ifrequired. The publication of such facts is a duty which every
friend of truth, and lover of fair play, owes to the public and himself, but
especially to the gifted persons in question,. who need every honest tribute
and attestation to console them for the calumny,!derislon, and depreciation,
which ill the lot of all the early adherents of novel and strange doctriue1,
I am, Sir, your humble servant, Veritas.
From the" ChelUnlw.m Ezaminer," December, 30, 1846.
RBMARXABLB CvaB.-To the Marquise de San Milan Tecmen.-M&dame,
last summer I laboured under a severe ulceration of the eyes. I was treated
at the Cheltenham Hospital three weeks without any benefit. I was so
blind on coming out, that I could not grope my way to my own house. I
was advised by one who knew your great talents and charity to the poor to
take your advice. You receind me with true Christian compassion, g.1.ve
me medicine and provided for my o•.her wants with the greatest liberalitr,
for I was entirely destitute of everything, and had four children dependent
on me. In three day1 I wa1 completely cured. This can bP. certified by
many witnesses who knew my previous state. I can only offer my sincere
thanks to you and my prayers to Heaven for you. No money could recom-
pense the benefit 1 have received. (Signed), Martha Fiddler, York street.
THB CASB OP MB6. WASHBOORN1 OF ULOUCEBTBR.-This lady had
been suffering for six years with a large and dangerous tumour in the in-
testines. Dr. Evans, of Gloucester, was the daily medical attendant of the
case, Sir Benjamin Brodie and Dr. Locock were also consulted, but so
hopeless did it appear, that on the 24th November, 184!:, the husband waa
informed that the patient could not live more than a fortnight; which opinion
can be attested by the Rev. Mr. Lewes. Jt was then., that as a last resource
it was considered right to consult the Marchioness of San Milan, who, after
mature consideration, had the courage to undertake to try the power of her
knowledge of chemistry, combined with mesmerism. The case was consi-
dered not only interesting, but curious in the highest degree, by the whole
of the medical profession in Cheltenham, who were invited by the Mar-
chioneu to 'Yisit and examine it in every possible manner. The patient was
Digitized by Google
45
brought to the Marchioness in an entirely helpless state, not having heen
able to walk for a long time. A consultation was then given by the Mar-
chioness, and her remedies with mesmerism were applied, which were so
eft'ectiTe that tumours of an extraordinary nature were passed,-and were
prese?Ted in spirits as a proof of the phenomena of the case. Aller four
months of this treatment and care, the health ofthe patient was so far re-
established that she could wa.lk four miles &t a time ; and at the nrious
«lirii"' of the Ma.rchioness she found much plea.sure in detailing the wonders
of the benefits she ha.d received. The cure of the pa.tient was thus pro-
gressing, when the husband considered her so well, th&t he wished
mesmerism to be discontinued, and ch&nge of air to be substituted in
its ste&d. This pl&n w&e 11.dopted to the great regret of the Ma.rchioness,
who much feared a return or an increase of the ma.la.dy which had cost her
so much pa.in 11.nd &ttentionto remove, but which she felt was not entirely
wadicated; and she w&s anxious to complete the entire cure of a case which
was proved to be ofso extra.ordinary a nature, as to be acknowledged, by
medical men, as nenr to haTe been before witnessed.
REMARKABLE AND PBOGltBSSIVB RECOVERY OP A PATIENT PRO·
NOUNCED INCUBABLB.-A woman, about thirty years of &ge, had been for
four years a resident in the different hospitals in Gloucester, afilicted by
scrofula-called a white swelling. Her general health appeared to be quite
exhausted ; her leg was contracted, and her sufferings were so great that
she could take neither food nor rest. In this state she presented herself to
the Marchioness of San Milan, with a recommendation from a clergyman,
and a lady who is named Washboume. The Marchioness g&ve her a con-
sultation, and then supplied her with the necessary medicines and mesme-
rism. The required treatment was tolerably well attended to by the patient,
and the result has been most satisfactory, for the knee is reduced to nearly
the same size as the other, and the violent pains have quite sub1ided,
although the contraction still partly remains. The general health of the
patient, which had &ppeared entirely destroyed, is now re-established. This
case is well known to several of the medical men of Cheltenham, &nd it is
published that all may make inquiry into the woBderful power of the Mar-
chioness over the sick, who have been given up by medical men of the first
practice. Anybody who feels interestedin the caue ofhumanity, may make
inquiry of the woman herself,-her address is, Ann& Stafford, 4, Hanter-
place, Porter-street, Gloucester.
Digitized by Google
46
A S1NOULA.ll FA.CT, which tooi place at a Some gi11e11 by the MarchiQne11
of San Milan, at Cheltenham.-A lady from Gloucester, named Washbourn,
came to this 80iree and brought a lock of hair from a lady who was a dis-
believer in mesmerum and clairvoyance, after the Marchioness was mes-
merised by the Rev.Mr. Banket~ Her hair was placed in her hand, when she
said that the lady to whom it belonged was dressed like a man, and had
so many things on her, she could not see her ; she then exclaimed, and
there it a gentleman with a lady's bonnet and shawl on-it is like a Car-
nival. Mrs. Washbourne ridiculed thifldea very much, thinking it impos-
sible, but she wrote the whole of the consultation down and sent it to her
friend. The return of the post brought a letter from the lady saying it was
all right, for that she had dressed up in her husband's clothes, and he in
hers, at the time of the consultation, in order to test the power of the
somnambulist, little expecting that she would see them as they really were.
In a week afterwards the lady herself called on the Marchioness-which
she had also foreseen-and the lady fully attested that all that the Mar-
chioness had stated as to her health, as well as every thing else, was quite
true.-The same eTening a young lady was told the state of her mother's
health so exactly, that she burst into tee.rs with surprise and agitation.
FINIS.
Digitized by GoogIe
CR&LTENH.1.11 !
J. J, HADLIT, PRINTJ:B, JOl'RN'AL OPPICJ:,
QUll"'I BUJLDlllQI.
Digitized by Google
