{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1847__whewell___philosophy_of_the_inductive_sciences.pdf","mytitle":"Philosophy Of The Inductive Sciences","mylang":"de"}
THE
PHI LOSOPHY
OF THE
INDUCTIVE SCIENCES,
FOUNDED UPON THEIR HISTORY.
BY WILLIAM WHEWELL, D.D.,
M A STER OF T R IN IT Y CO LLEGE,
A N EW ED ITIO N ,
WITH CORRECTIONS AND ADDITIONS, AND
AN APPENDIX, CONTAINING
PHILOSOPHICAL ESSAYS PREVIOUSLY PUBLISHED.
IN TWO VOLUMES.
A au n á& ta f% o vrts hia
VOLUME THE FIRST.
LONDON:
JO H N W. PA R K E R , W EST STRAND.
, M.DCCC.XLVII.
Digitized by Google
TO TH K
R e v . ADAM SEDGWICK, M.A.,
SENIOR FRLI.OW OF TRIN ITY COLLFGE,
WOODWARDIAN PROFESSOR OF GEOLOGY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF
CAMBRIDGE, AND PREBENDARY OF NORWICH.
M y d ea r S e d g w ic k ,
W h e n I showed you the last sheet of my History o f the In ­
ductive Sciences in its transit through the press, you told me that
I ought to add a paragraph or two at the end, by way of Moral
to the story; and I replied that the Moral would be as long as
the story itself. The present work, the Moral which you then
desired, I have, with some effort, reduced within a somewhat
smaller compass than I then spoke o f; and I cannot dedicate it
to any one with so much pleasure as to you.
It has always been my wish that, as far and as long as men
might know anything of me by my writings, they should hear of me
along with the friends with whom I have lived, whom I have loved,
and by whose conversation I have been animated to hope that I
too might add something to the literature of our country. There
is no one whose name has, on such grounds, a better claim than
yours to stand in the front of a work, which has been the subject
of my labours for no small portion of our long period of friend­
ship. But there is another reason which gives a peculiar pro­
priety to this dedication of my Philosophy to you. I have little
doubt that if your life had not been absorbed in struggling
with many of the most difficult problems of a difficult science,
you would have been my fellow-labourer or master in the work
which I have here undertaken. The same spirit which dictated
your vigorous protest against some of the errours which I also
attempt to expose, would have led you, if your thoughts had been
Digitized by Google
IV DEDICATION.
more free, to take a leading share in that Reform of Phil<
which all who are alive to such errours, must see to be i
dispensable. To you I may most justly inscribe a worl
contains a criticism of the fallacies of the ultra-Lockian s
I will mention one other reason which enters into the e
tion with which I place your name at the head of my Phil
By doing so, I may consider myself as dedicating it to the
to which we both belong, to which we both owe so mucl
that we are, and in which we have lived together so lon^
happily; and that, be it remembered, the College of Bacoi
Newton. That College, I know, holds a strong place in yoi
tions, as in m ine; and among many reasons, not least
account;— we believe that sound and enduring philosop
finds there a congenial soil and a fostering shelter. If t
trines which the present work contains be really true ar
able, my unhesitating trust is, that they will spread gi
from these precincts to every part of the land.
That this office of being the fosterer and diffuser of tn
ever belong to our common Nursing Mother, and that
dear Sedgwick, may long witness and contribute to the*
ficial influences, is the hearty wish of
Yours affectionately,
. W . W H E W
Trinity College, M ay 1, 1840.
Digitized by Google
P R E F A C E
TO THE
S E C O N D E D I T I O N .
I n the Preface to the first edition of this work, it was
stated that the work was intended as an application of
the plan of Bacon’s Novum Organon to the present con­
dition of Physical Science. Such an undertaking, it was
there said, plainly belongs to the present generation.
Bacon only divined how sciences might be constructed;
we can trace, in their history, how their construction
has taken place. However sagacious were his conjec­
tures, it may be expected that they will be further illus­
trated by facts which we know to have really occurred.
However large were his anticipations, the actual progress
of science since his time may aid in giving comprehen­
siveness to our views. And with respect to the methods
by which science is to be promoted,—the structure and
operation of the Organ by which truth is to be collected
from nature,—we know that, though Bacon’s general
maxims still guide and animate philosophical enquirers
yet that his views, in their detail, have all turned out
inapplicable: the technical parts of his method failed in
his hands, and are forgotten among the cultivators of
science. It cannot be an unfit task, at the present day,
to endeavour to extract from the actual past progress
of science, the elements of a more effectual and sub-
Digitized by Googk
VI PREFACE TO
stantial Method of Discovery. The advances
have, during the last three centuries, been made
physical sciences;—in Astronomy, in Physics, in
mistry, in Natural History, in Physiology;—the
allowed by all to be real, to be great, to be str
may it not be, then, that these steps of progres:
in them something alike?—that in each advancing
ment there is some common process, some commoi
ciple?—that the organ by which discoveries havi
made has had something uniform in its structui
working? If this be so, and if we can, by attenc
the past history of science, discover something
common element and common process in all disco
we shall have a Philosophy of Science, such as oui
may naturally hope for:— we shall have the New
of Bacon, renovated according to our advanced ir
tual position and office.
It was with the view to such a continuatio
extension of Bacon’s design, that I undertook th
vey of the Histoiyof Science which I hav
another work ; and that analysis of the advance c
science which the present work contains. Of tli
trines promulgated by Bacon, none has more com
remained with us, as a stable and valuable trutl
his declaration that true knowledge is to be ol
from Facts by In d u ctio n and in order to denote
start at once from the point to which Bacon thus
I have, both in the History and in the Philosophy,
the sciences with which I have to do, the Inducti
ences. By treating of the Physical Sciences only
I speak of the Inductive Sciences in the descriji
Digitized by Googk
* THE SECOND EDITION. vii
my design, I do not, (as I have already elsewhere said*)
intend to deny the character of Inductive Sciences to
many other branches of knowledge, as for instance, Eth­
nology, Glossology, Political Economy, and Psychology.
But I think it will be allowed that by taking, as I have
done, the Physical Sciences alone, in which the truths
established are universally assented to, and regarded with
comparative calmness, we are better able to discuss the
formal conditions and general processes of scientific
discovery, than we could do if we entangled ourselves
among subjects where the interest is keener and the
truth more controverted. Perhaps a more exact descrip­
tion of the present work would be, Philosophy of
the Inductive S
c
i
e
n
c
e
s
, founded upon the History of the
principal Physical Sciences.
I am well aware how much additional interest and
attractiveness are given to speculations concerning the
progress of human knowledge, when we include in them,
as examples of such knowledge, views on subjects of
politics, morals, beauty in art and literature, and the like.
Prominent instances of the effect of this mode of treating
such subjects have recently appeared. But I still think
that the real value and import of Inductive Philosophy,
even in its application to such subjects, are best brought
into view by making the progress of political, and moral
and callesthctical\ truth a subject of consideration apart
from physical science.
It can hardly happen that a work which treats of
Methods of Scientific Discovery shall not seem to fail in
* Hist, Ind. Set. Second Edition. Note to the Introduction.
t SeoVol. ii. On the Language of Science, Aphorism, xvu.
Digitized by Google
PREFACE TO
the positive results which it offers. For an Ar
covery is not possible. At each step of the pr<
science, are needed invention, sagacity, genius;—<
which no Art can give. We may hope in vain, i
hoped, for an organ which shall enable all men to c
scientific truths, as a pair of compasses enables
to construct exact circles*. The practical resul
Philosophy of Science must, we are persuaded, t
classification and analysis than precept and me
think however that the methods 'of discover
I have to recommend, though gathered from
survey of scientific history, as to subject an
time, than, (so far as [ am aware,) has been e
attempted, arc quite as definite and practical
others which have been proposed; with the grc
tional advantage of being the methods by which
discoveries in physical science really have bee
This may be said, for instance, of Method of
turn, and the Methodof Natural
of Book xiii. Chap, via.; arid in a narrower :
the Method of Cartes, the of the
of Least S
q
u
a
r
e
s
, and the Method Residues
of in Chap. vn. of the same Book. Also the 1
on the Use of J/i/potheses and on the Tests of l i t
(Book xi. Chap, v.) point out features which n
usual course of discovery.
But undoubtedly one of the principal lessor
results from the views here given is that
sciences may be expected to advance by differer
of procedure, according to their present conditi
* *\W Qty. K
iH
, i, til
v i ii
Digitized by Google
TIIE SECOND EDITION. IX
that, in many of these sciences, an Induction per­
formed by any of the methods just referred to, is not
the step which we may expect to see next made.
Several of the sciences may not be in a condition which
fits them for such a Colligation of Facte, (to use the
phraseology to which the succeeding analysis has led
me. See B. xi. C. i). The Facts may, at the present
time, require to be more fully observed, or the Idea by
which they are to be colligated may require to be more
fully unfolded.
But in this point also, our speculations are far from
being barren of practical results. The Philosophy of
each Science, as given in the present work, affords us
means of discerning whether that which is needed for
the further progress of the Science has its place in the
Observations, or in the Ideas, or in the union of the two.
If Observations be wanted, the Methods of Observation
given in Book xin. Chap. n. may be referred to; if
those who are to make the next discoveries need, for
that purpose, a developement of their Ideas, the modes
in which such a developement has usually taken place
are treated of in Chapters ill. and iv. of that Book.
Perhaps one of the most prominent points of this
work is the attempt to show the place which discussions
concerning Ideas have had in the progress of science.
The metaphysical aspect of each of the physical sciences
is very far from being, as some have tried to teach, an
aspect which it passes through previously to the most
decided progress of the science. On the contrary, the
metaphysical is a necessary part of the inductive move­
ment. This, which is evidently so by the nature of the
Digitized by Google
X PREFACE TO
case, is proved by a copious collection of histor
deuces in the first ten Books of the present work.
Books contain an account of the principal philo
controversies which have taken place in all the
sciences, from Mathematics to Physiology; ai
controversies, which must be called
thing be so called, have been conducted by the
discoverers in each science, and have been an »
part of the discoveries made. Physical discover'
differed from barren speculators, not by having t
physics in their heads, but by having good met
while their adversaries had had; and by bindi
metaphysics to their physics, instead of keeping
asunder. I trust that the ten Books of which
spoken are of some value, even as a series of an.
a number of remarkable controversies; hut I can
ceive how any one, after reading these Books,
to see that there is in progressive science a metn
as well as a physical element ;—ideas, as well as
thoughts, as well as things:—in short, that the
mental Antithesis, for which I contend, is the
abundantly and strikingly exemplified.
On the subject of this doctrine of a Fun»
Analysis, which our knowledge always involve
venture here to add a remark, which looks be,
domain of the physical sciences. This doctrine
to throw light upon Moral and Political Philos
less than upon Physical. In Morality, in Legisl
National Polity, we have still to do with the oj
and combination of two Elements ;—of Facts an
of History, ami an Ideal Standard of Action: <
THE SECOND EDITION. XI
character and position, and of the aims which are placed
above the Actual. Each of these is in conflict with the
other; each modifies and moulds the other. We can never
escape the control of the first; we must ever cease to
strive to extend the sway of the second. In these cases,
indeed, the Ideal Element assumes a new form. It in­
cludes the Idea of Duty. The opposition, the action
and re-action, the harmony at which we must ever
aim, and can never reach, are between what is and what
ought to he;—between the past or present Fact, and
the Supreme Idea. The Idea can never be independ­
ent of the Fact, but the Fact must ever be drawn
towards the Idea. The History of Human Societies,
and of each Individual, is by the moral philosopher,
regarded in reference to this Antithesis; and thus both
Public and Private Morality becomes an actual progress
towards an Ideal Form; or ceases to be a moral reality.
I have made very slight alterations in the first
edition, except that the First Book is remodelled with
a view of bringing out more clearly the basis of the
work;—this doctrine of the Fundamental Antithesis of
Philosophy. This doctrine, and its relation to the rest
of the work, have become more clear in the years
which have elapsed since the first edition.
A separate Essay, in which this doctrine was ex­
plained, and a few other Essays previously published in
various forms, and containing discussions of special
points belonging to the scheme of philosophy here de­
livered, have attracted some notice, both in this and in
other countries. I have therefore added them as an
Appendix to the present edition.
Digitized by Google
Xll PREFACE TO
I have added a few Notes, in answer to arguments
brought against particular parts of this work. I have
written these in what I have elsewhere called an im­
personal manner; wishing to avoid controversy, so far
as justice to philosophical Truth will allow me to do so.
I have not given any detailed reply to the criticisms
of this work which occur in Mr. Mill’s System qf Logic.
The consideration of these criticisms would be interest­
ing to me, and I think would still further establish the
doctrines which I have here delivered. But such a dis­
cussion would involve me in a critique of Mr. Mill’s
work; which if I were to offer to the world, I should
think it more suitable to publish separately.
More than one of my critics has expressed an opinion
that when I published this work, I had not given due at­
tention to the Cours de PkihsophiPositive o
I had, and have, an opinion of the value of M. Comte’s
speculations very different from that entertained by my
monitors. I had in the former edition discussed, and,
as I conceive, confuted, some of M. Comte’s leading
doctrines*. In order further to show that I had not
lightly passed over those portions of M. Comte’s work
which had then appeared, I now publish f an additional
portion of a critique of the work which, though I had
written, I excluded from the former edition. This is
printed exactly as it existed in manuscript at the
period of that publication. To return to the subject and
to take it up in all its extent, would be an undertaking
out of the range of a new edition of my published
work.
* B. x r. t\ vii. B. x in . c. iv. t B. x i i . c. xvi.
Digitized by Googk
THE SECOND EDITION. Xlll
Bacon delivered his philosophy in Aphorisms;—a
series of Sentences which profess to exhibit rather the
results of thought than the process of thinking. A
mere Aphoristic Philosophy unsupported by reasoning,
is not suited to the present time. No writer upon
such subjects can expect to be either understood or
assented to, beyond the limits of a narrow school, who
is not prepared with good arguments as well as magis­
terial decisions upon the controverted points of philo­
sophy. But it may be satisfactory to some readers to
see the Philosophy, to which in the present work we are
led, presented in the Aphoristic form. I have therefore
placed a Series of Aphorisms at the end of the work.
In the former edition these, by being placed at the begin­
ning of the work, might mislead the reader; seeming
to some, perhaps, to be put forwards as the grounds, not
as the results, of our philosophy. I have also prefixed
an analysis of the work, in the form of a Table of Con­
tents to each volume.
In that part of the second volume which treats of
the Language of Science, I have made a few alterations
and additions, tending to bring my recommendations
into harmony with the present use of the best scientific
works.
Digitized by Googk
J
CONTENTS
OF
THE FIRST VOLUME.
P reface
P-aok
V
PART I.
O F I D E A S .
BOOK I.
OF IDEAS IN GENERAL.
C hap. I. I ntroduction.............................................................................1
C hap. IL Of the F undamental Antithesis of P hilosophy . 16
Sect. 1. Thoughts and Things.
2. Necessary and Experiential Truths . . . 19
3. Deduction and Induction . . . . . 2 1
4. Theories and Facts . . . . . . 23
5. Ideas and Sensations . . . . . . 24
6. Re/lexion and Se?isation . . . . . 27
7. Subjective and Objective .. . . . . 29
8. Matter and Form . . . . . . 33
9. Man the Interpreter of Nature . . . * 3 7
10. The Fundamental Antithesis is inseparable . . 38
11. Successive G e n e r a liz a tio n ................................... 46
Ciiap. III. Of Technical T e r m s ...........................................51
Art. 1. Examples.
2. Use of Terms.
Chap. IV . Of N ecessary Truths ...........................................54
A rt. 1. The two Elements of Knowledge,
2. Shewn by necessary Truths.
3. Examples of necessary Truths in numbers.
4. The opposite cannot be distinctly conceived.
5. Other Examples.
6. Universal Truths.
Chap. V. Of E xperience ......................................................62
Art. 1. Experience cannot prove necessary Truths,
2. Except when aided by Ideas.
Digitized by Google
XVI CONTENTS OF
Chap. VI.
Art. 1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
Chap. VII.
Art. 1.
2.
3.
P aok
Of the Grounds of N ecessary Truths . . 66
These Grounds are Fundamental Ideas.
These are to be reviewed.
Definitions and Axioms.
Syllogism,
Produces no new Truths.
Axioms needed.
Axioms depend on Ideas :
So do Definitions.
Idea not completely expressed.
T he F undamental I deas are not derived from
E xperience . . . . . . 74
No connexion observed.
Faculties implied in observation.
We are to examine our Faculties.
Chap. VIII. Op the P hilosophy op the Sciences . . - 7%
Sciences arranged according to Ideas.
BOOK II.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF THE PURE SCIENCES.
Chap. I. Op the P ure Sciences . . . .
Art. 1. Geometry, Arithmetic, Algebra,
2. Are not Inductive Sciences :
3. Are Mathematical Sciences.
4. Mixed Mathematics.
5. Space, Time, Number.
Chap. II. Of the I dea of Space . . . .
Art. 1. Space is an Idea,
2. Not derived from Experience,
3. As Geometrical Truth shews.
4. Space is a Form of Experience.
5. The phrase not essential.
Chap. III. Op some peculiarities of the I dea of Space
Art. 1. Space is not an Abstract Notion.
2. Space is infinite.
3. Space is real.
4. Space is a Form ofIntuition.
5. Figure.
6. Three Dimensions.
82
. 84
88
Digitized by Google
THE FIRST VOLUME. XVII
C hap. IV. Of the D efinitions and Axioms which relate to
Space ..................................................................
Art. 1. Geometry.
2. Definitions.
3. Axioms.
4. Not Hypotheses.
5. Axioms necessary.
6. Straight lines. *
7. Planes.
8. Elementary Geometry.
C hap. V. Of some O bjections which have been made to the
D octrines stated in the previous C hapter .
A rt. 1. How is Geometry hypothetical?
2. What was Stewart's view ?
3. “ Legitimate filiations'’ of Definitions.
4. Is a Definition a complete explanation ?
5. Are some Axioms Definitions ?
6. Axiom concerning Circles.
7- Can Axioms become truisms ?
8. Use of such.
Chap. VI. Of the P erception of Space . . . .
A rt. 1. Which Senses apprehend Space ?
2. Perception of solid figure.
3. Is an interpretation.
4. May be analysed.
5. Outline.
6. Reversed convexity.
7. Do we perceive Space by Touch ?
8. Brown's Opinion.
9. The Muscular Sense.
10. Bell's Opinion.
11. Perception includes Activity.
12. Perception of the Skiey Dome.
13. Reid’s Idomenians.
14. Motion of the Eye.
15. Searching Motion.
16. Sensible Spot.
17. Expressions implying Motion.
Chap. VII. Of the Idea of T ime . . . . .
Art. 1. Time an Idea not derived from Experience.
2. Time is a Form of Experience.
VOL. I. W
. P. b
P a g *
91
101
111
125
Digitized by Google
XVU1 CONTENTS OF
Art, 3* Number.
4. Is Time derived from Motion?
Chap. VIIL Op some peculiarities in xnE Idea op T
Art, I, Time is not an Abstract Notion.
2. Time is infinite.
3. Time is a Form of Intuition.
4. Time is of one Dimension,
5* And no more,
6. Rhythm.
7« Alternation.
8. Arithmetic.
CiiAr, IX. Op the Axioms which relate to N umber
A rt, 1* Grounds of Arithmetic.
2. Intuition.
3. Arithmetical Axioms,
4. Are Conditions of Numerical Reasoning
5. In all Arithmetical Operations.
6. Higher Numbers.
Coap. X. Of the Perception of Time and Number
Art. 1, Memory.
2. Sense of Successiveness
3. Implies Activity.
4. Number also does so.
5. And apprehension of Rhythm,
Note to Chapter X ...............................................
Chap. XL Of Mathematical R easoning . .
Art. L Discursive Reasoning,
2. Technical Terms of Reasoning.
3. Geometrical Analysis and Synthesis,
Chap. XII. Of tiie Foundations of the ifiaiiEn Mai
A rt. 1. The Idea of a Limit.
2, The use of General Symbols.
3. Connexion of Symbols and Analysis.
Chap. XIII. The D octrine of Motion . . .
Art L Pure Mechanism.
2. Formal Astronomy*
Chap, XIV. Of the Application of Mathematics
Inductive Sciences * * *
Art. 1. The Ideas of Space and Number are clear
first.
THE FIRST VOLUME XIX
P a g «
Art. 2. Their application in Astronomy.
3. Conic Sections, &c.
4. Arabian Numerals.
5. Newton's Lemmas.
6. Tides.
7. Mechanics.
8. Optics.
9. Conclusion.
BOOK III.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
C hap. I. Of the Mechanical Sciences . . . . 164
C hap. II. Of the Idea of Cause . .
Art. 1. Not derived from Observation.
2. As appears by its use.
3. Cause cannot be observed.
4. Is Cause only constant succession ?
5. Other reasons.
C hap. III. M odern Opinions respecting the I dea op C ause
Art. 1. Hume's Doctrine. .
2. Stewart and Brown.
3. Kant.
4. Relation of Kant and Brown.
5. Axioms flow from the Idea.
6. The Idea implies activity in the Mind.
4QÌT tJo
Chap. IV . Of the A xioms which relate to the I dea of Cause 177
Art. 1. Causes are Abstract Conceptions.
2. First Axiom.
3. Second Axiom.
4. Limitation of the Second Axiom.
5. Third Axiom.
6. Extent of the Third Axiom.
Chap. V. Of the Origin op our Conceptions of F orce and
Ma t t e r ................................................................ ]85
Art. 1. Force.
2. Matter.
3. Solidity.
4. Inertia.
5. Application.
¿>2
Digitized by Googk
XX CONTENTS OF
Chap. VI.
PA
O
*
Op the Establishment op the P rinciples op
St a t i c s ...................................................................192
Art, 1. Object of the Chapter.
2. Statics and Dynamics.
3. Equilibrium.
4. Measure of Statical Forces.
5. The Center of Gravity.
6. Oblique Forces.
7* Force acts at any point of its Direction.
8. The Parallelogram of Forces
9. Is a necessary Truth.
10. Center of Gravity descends.
11. Stevinus's Proof.
12. Principle of Virtual Velocities.
13. Fluids press equally.
14. Foundation of this Axiom.
Chap. VII.
Art. 1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7­
8.
9.
10.
Op the E stablishment of the P rinciples of
D y n a m ic s......................................................... 215
History.
The First Law of Motion.
Gravity is a Uniform Force.
The Second Law of Motion.
The Third Law of Motion.
Action and Reaction in Moving Bodies.
D’Alembert’s Principle.
Connexion of Statics and Dynamics.
Mechanical Principles grow more evident.
Controversy of the Measure of Force.
Chap. V III. Of the P aradox of U niversal P ropositions
obtained from E xperience . . . .
Art. 1. Experience cannot establish necessary Truths ;
2. But can interpret Axioms
3. Gives us the Matter of Truths.
4, Exemplifies Truths.
5. Cannot shake Axioms.
6. Is this applicable in other cases ?
Chap. ÏX. Of the E stablishment of the L aw of U niversal
G r a v i t a t i o n .....................................................
Art1. General course of the History.
2. Particulars as to the Law.
245
254
Digitized by Googk
THE FIRST VOLUME. XXI
Paqe
A rt. 3. Aa to the Gravity of Matter.
4. Universality of the Law.
5. Is Gravity an essential quality ?
6. Newton s Rule of Philosophizing.
7- Hypotheses respecting Gravity.
8. Do Bodies act at a distance ?
Chap. X. Op the G eneral D iffusion of clear Mechanical
I d e a s ...........................................................................262
Art. 1. Nature of the Process
2. Among the Ancients.
3. Kepler, &c.
4. Lord Monboddo, See.
5. Schelling, Sec.
6. Common usage.
7* Effect'of Phrases.
8. Contempt of Predecessors.
9. Less detail hereafter.
JO. Mechanico-Chemical Sciences.
11. Secondary Mechanical Sciences.
Additional Note to Chapter IV. On the Axioms which relate to
the Idea of Cause . . . . . . . .
Additional Note to Chapter VI. 8ect. 5. On the Center of Gravity
BOOK IV.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF THE SECONDARY MECHANICAL
SCIENCES.
Chap. I. Of the I dea of a M edium as commonly employed . 277
A rt. 1. Of Primary and Secondary Qualities.
2. The Idea of Externality.
3. Sensation by a Medium.
4. Process of Perception of Secondary Qualities.
C hap. II. On Peculiarities in the P erceptions of the D if­
ferent Se n s e s ................................................................ 286
A rt. 1. Difference of Senses.
Sect. I. Prerogative* of Sight.
Art. 2. Position.
3. Distance.
Digitized by Google
¿3
¿3O
i
»ft
XXII CONTENTS OF
Sect. II. Prerogatives of Hearing.
Art. 4. Musical Intervals.
5. Chords.
6. Rhythm.
Sect. III. The Paradoxes of Vision.
Art. 7. First Paradox.
a Second Paradox.
9. The same for near Objects.
10. Objections answered.
Sect. IV. The Perception of Visible Figures.
Art. 11-. Brown's Opinion.
Chap. III. S uccessive A ttempts at the SciENmFic A pplica­
tion of the I dea of a Medium . . ,
Art. 1. Introduction.
2. Sound. '
3. Light.
4. Heat.
Chap. IV. Of the M easure of Secondary Q ualities .
Sect. I. Scales of Qualities in General.
Art. 1. Intensity.
2. Quantity and Quality.
Sect. IL The Musical Scale.
Art. 3. Musical Relations.
4. Musical Standard.
Sect. III. Scales of Colour.
Art. 5. The Prismatic Scale.
6. Newton’s Scale.
7- Scales of Impure Colours.
a Chromatometer.
Sect. IV. Scales of Light.
Art. 9. Photometer.
10. Cyanometer.
Sect. V. Scales of Heat.
Art. 11. Thermometers.
12. Their progress.
13. Fixed Points. ■
14. Concordance of Thermometers.
15. Natural Measure.
Digitized by Google
THE FIRST VOLUME. XX111
Art. 16. Law of Cooling.
17. Theory of Exchanges.
18. Air Thermometer.
19. Theory of Heat.
20. Other Instruments.
Sect. VI. Scales of other Quantities.
Art. 21. Tastes and Smells.
22. Quality of Sounds.
23. Articulate Sounds.
24. Transition.
P ao>
BOOK V.
OF THE PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICO-CHEMICAL
SCIENCES.
Chap. I. A ttempts at the Scientific Application ok the Idea
of Polar i t y ................................................................ 345
Art. 1. Introduction of the Idea.
2. Magnetism.
3. Electricity.
4. Voltaic Electricity.
5. Light.
6. Crystallization. .
7- Chemical Affinity.
8. General Remarks.
9. Like repels like.
Chap. II. Of the Connexion of P olarities . . . 357
Art. 1. Different Polar Phenomena from one Cause.
2. Connexion of Magnetic and Electric Polarity.
3. Ampere’s Theory.
4. Faraday’s views.
5. Connexion of Electrical and Chemical Polarity.
6. Davy's and Faraday’s views
7. Depend upon Ideas as well as Experiments.
8. Faraday’s Anticipations.
9. Connexion of Chemical and Crystalline Polarities.
10. Connexion of Crystalline and Optical Polarities.
11. Connexion of Polarities in general.
12. Schelling’s Speculations.
13. Hegel’s vague notions.
14. Ideas must guide Experiment.
Digitized by Google
XXIV CONTENTS OF
Page
BOOK VI.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF CHEMISTRY.
C hap. I. A ttempts to conceive E lementary Composition . 376
Art. 1. Fundamental Ideas of Chemistry.
2. Elements.
3. Do Compounds resemble their Elements?
4. The Three Principles.
5. A Modern Errour.
6. Are Compounds determined by the Figure of Ele­
ments ?
7. Crystalline Form depends on Figure of Elements.
8. Are Compounds determined by Mechanical Attrac­
tion of Elements ?
9. Newton's followers.
10. Imperfection of their Hypotheses.
Chap. II. E stablishment and D evelopment of the I dea of
Chemical A f f i n i t y ................................................388
Art. 1. Early Chemists.
2. Chemical Affinity.
3. Affinity or Attraction ?
4. Affinity preferable.
5. Analysis is possible.
6. Affinity is Elective.
7* Controversy on this. *
8. Affinity is Definite.
9. Are these Principles necessarily true ?
10. Composition determines Properties.
11. Comparison on this subject.
12. Composition determines Crystalline Form.
Chap. III. Of the Idea op Substance . . . . 404
Art. 1* Indestructibility of Substance.
2. The Idea of Substance.
3. Locke's Denial of Substance.
4. Is all Substance heavy ?
Chap. IV . A pplication of the I dea of S ubstance in Che­
mistry . . .............................................................
Art. 1. A Body is Equal to its Elements.
2. Lavoisier.
3. Are there Imponderable Elements ?
Digitized by Google
THE FIRST VOLUME. XXV
P4GK
Art. 4. Faraday’s views.
5. Composition of Water.
6. Heat in Chemistry.
C hap. V. 'The A tomic T heory . . .
Art. 1. The Theory on Chemical Grounds.
2. Hypothesis of Atoms.
3. Its Chemical Difficulties.
4. Grounds of the Atomic Doctrine.
5. Ancient Atomists.
a Francis Bacon.
7- Modem Atomists.
a Arguments for and against.
9. Boscovich s Theory.
10. Molecular Hypothesis.
11. Poisson’s Inference.
12. Wollaston's Argument.
13. Properties are Permanent.
BOOK VII.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF MORPHOLOGY, INCLUDING
CRYSTALLOGRAPHY.
Chap. I. E xplication of the I dea of Symmetry . . 439
Art. 1. Symmetry what.
2. Kinds of Symmetry.
3. Examples in Nature.
4. Vegetables and Animals.
5. Symmetry a Fundamental Idea.
(5. Result of Symmetry.
Chap. II. A pplication of the I dea of S ymmetry to Crystals 447
Art. 1. wFundamental Forms.”
2. Their use.
3. “ Systems of Crystallization.”
4. Cleavage.
5. Other Properties.
Chap. III. *Speculations founded upon the Symmetry of
Cr y sta ls..................................................................452
Art. 1. Integrant Molecules
2. Difficulties of the Theory.
3. Merit of the Theory.
4. WoUaston's Hypothesis.
Digitized by Googk
XXVI CONTENTS OF
P a q k
Art. 5. Maxim for such Hypotheses.
6. Dalton’s Hypothesis.
7* Ampere’s Hypothesis.
8. Difficulty of such Hypotheses.
9. Isomorphism.
BOOK VIII.
PHILOSOPHY OF THE CLASSIFICATORY SCIENCES.
Chap. I. T he I dea of L ikeness as G overning tiie U se of
Common N ames . . . . . . 466
Art. 1. Object of the Chapter.
2. Unity of the Individual.
3. Condition of Unity.
4. Kinds.
5. Not made by Definitions.
6. Condition of the Use of Terms.
7* Terms may have different Uses.
8. Gradation of Kinds.
9. Characters of Kinds.
10. Difficulty of Definitions.
11. “ The Five Words.”
Chap. II. ’
The M ethods of N atural H istory, as regulated
by tiie I dea of L ikeness . . . .
Sett. 1. Natural History in General.
Art. 1. Idea of Likeness in Natural History.
2. Condition of its Use.
Sect. II. Terminology.
Art. 3. Meaning of the word.
Sect. III. The Plan of the System.
Art. 4. Its Meaning.
5. Latent Reference to Natural Affinity.
6. Natural Classes.
7. Artificial Classes.
8. Are Genera Natural?
9. Natural History and Mathematics.
10. Natural Groups given by Type, not by Definition.
11. Physiography.
12. Artificial and Natural Systems.
Digitized by Googk
THE FIRST VOLUME. XXVII
P a g k
Sect. IV. Method* offraming Natural Systems.
Art. 13. Method of Blind Trial.
14. Method of General Comparison.
Sect. V. Gradation of Groups.
Art. 15. Series of Subdivisions.
16. What is a Species?
17* The tcords 4
4Species" and 4
4Genus."
18. Varieties. Races.
Sect. VI. Nomenclature.
Art. 19. Binary Nomenclature.
Sect. VII. Diagnosis.
Art. 20. Characteristick and Systematick.
Chap. III. A pplication of the N atural H istory Method to
M i n e r a l o g y ............................................... . 5 1 2
Art. 1. Mohs's System.
2. His 4
4Characteristick."
3. Mineral Species not yet well fixed.
4. Orders of Minerals.
5. Nomenclature of Minerals.
6. M. Necker s 4
4Règne Mineral."
7* Inconvenience of taking a Chemical basis of Mineral
Systems.
8. Relation of Natural History and Chemistry.
9. What is a Mineralogical Individual ?
10. A well-formed Crystal is an Individual.
11. Not the Integrant Molecules,
12. Nor the Cleavage Forms.
13. Compound Crystals are not individuals.
14. Crystalline Forms are sufficiently complete for this. .
15. Including aggregate Masses.
16. Do Artificial Crystals belong to Mineralogy ?
17- The Mineralogical Individual extends as far as
the same Crystalline Axes extend.
18. Artificial Crystals do belong to Mineralogy :
19. Cannot be excluded.
20. Species to be determined by the Crystalline Power.
21. Secondary Derivative Forms are Varieties:
22. Are not Species, as M. Necker holds.
Digitized by Google
XXV111 CONTENTS OF
Chap. IV. Of the I dea of N atural A ffinity . .
Art. 1. The Idea of Affinity
2. Is not to be made out by Arbitrary Rules.
3. Functions of Living things are many,
4. But all lead to the same arrangement.
5. This is Cuviers principle:
6. And Decandolle’s.
7* Is this applicable to Inorganic Bodies ?
3. Yes; by the agreement of Physical and Chemical
Arrangement.
Paok
535
BOOK IX.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF BIOLOGY.
Chap. I. A nalogy of Biology with other Sciences . . 543
Art. 1. Biology involves the Idea of Life.
2. This Idea to be historically traced.
3. The Idea at first expressed by means of other Ideas,
4. Mystical, Mechanical, Chemical, and Vital Fluid
Hypotheses.
Chap. II. Successive B iological H ypotheses * . . 548
Sect. I. The Mystical School.
Sect. II. The Iatrochemical School.
Sect. III. The latromathematical School.
Sect. IV. The Vital Fluid School.
Sect. V. The Psychical School.
Chap. III. A ttempts to A nalyse the I dea of L ife
Art. 1. Definitions of Life,
2. By Stahl, Humboldt, Kant.
3. Definition of Organization by Kant.
4. Life is a System of Functions.
5. Bichat. Sum of Functions.
6. Use of Definition.
7. Cuvier's view.
8. Classifications of Functions.
9. Vital, Natural, and Animal Functions.
10. Bichat. Organic and Animal Life.
11. Use of this Classification.
Digitized by Google
THE FIRST VOLUME. XXIX
Paob
Chap. IV. A ttempts to form I deas of Separate V ital
F orces, and first, of A ssimilation and Secre­
tion ........................................................................... 580
Sect. I. Course of Biological Research.
Art. 1. Observation and New Conceptions.
Sect. II. .Attempts to form a distinct Conception of Assimila­
tion and Secretion.
Art. 2. The Ancients.
3. Buffon. Interior Mould.
4. Defect of this view.
5. Cuvier. Life a Vortex.
6. Defect of this view.
7- Schelling. Matter and Form.
8. Life a constant Form of circulating Matter, &c.
Sect. III. Attempts to conceive the Forces of Assimilation and
Secretion.
Art. 9. Assimilation is a Vital Foroe.
10. The name “ Assimilation.”
11. Several processes involved in Assimilation.
12. A bsorption. Endosmose.
13. Absorption involves a Vital Force.
14. Secretion. Glands.
15. Motions of Vital Fluids.
Sect. IV. Attempts to conceive the Process of Generation.
Art. 16. Reproduction figuratively used for Generation.
17. Nutrition different from
18. Generation.
19. Generations successively included.
20. Pre-existence of Germs.
21. Difficulty of this view. ‘
22. Communication of Vital Forces.
23. Close similarity of Nutrition and Generation.
24. The Identity of the two Processes exemplified.
Chap. V. A ttempts to form I deas of separate Vital F orces,
continued.—Voluntary Motion . . .
Art. 1. Voluntary Motion one of the animal Functions.
2. Progressive knowledge of it.
3. Nervous Fluid not electric.
4. Irritability. Glisson.
5. Haller.
Digitized by Google
XXX
CONTENTS OF
■
A
rt- 6. Contractility.
7- Organic Sensibility and Contractility not «
«• Improperly described by Bichat,
ft Brown,
U. Cuvier's view.
Ift
13.
14.
15.
Ifi,
17.
is.
i a
20.
21.
22.
ft3.
24.
Elementary contractile Action.
Strength of Muscular Fibre.
Sensations become Perceptions
By means of Ideas ;
And lead to Muscular Actions.
Udition comes between Perception and Ac
4 ransition to Psychology.
A center is introduced.
The central cnnaaonanesH may be obscure,
neflex Muscular Action.
In.Htinet,
Difficulty of conceiving Instinct,
Instinct opposed to Insight.
Chap. VI. Of the I dea of F inal Causes . .
Art. I. Organization. Parts are Ends and Mean«.
*■ »ot merely mutually dependent.
3. Not merely mutually Cause and Effect.
r ~'0tion °f E,ld ,lot derived from Facts.
•>
- Tins notion has regulated Physiology.
*
- Notion of Design comes from within.
7- Design not understood by Savages.
«■ Design opposed to Morphology.
9- Impression of Design when fresh.
10. Acknowledgement of an End by adverse Phy*
gists. J
11. This included in the Notion of Disease.
12. It belongs to Organized Creatures only.
Isi. The term Final Cause.
14. L aw and D esig n .
15- Final Causes and Morphology.
HI. Expressions of physiological Ends.
17- The Conditions of Existence.
18. The asserted presumption of Teleology.
15. 1‘inal Causes in other subjects.
20. Transition to Palretiology,
Digitized by Googk
THE FIRST VOLUME. XXXI
Chap. I.
BOOK X.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF PAL.ETIOLOGY.
Op Pal.etiological Scienc e* in General
P a g it
. 637
A n . 1. Description of Palaetiology.
2. Its Members.
3. Other Members.
4. Connexion of the whole subject.
5. We shall take Material Sciences only;
6. But these are connected with others.
C h a p . II. Of tiie T h r e e M e m b e r s of a P ala:tiological
S c i e n c e ................................................................................. .
Art. 1. Divisions of such Sciences.
2. The Study of Causes.
3. .¿Etiology.
4. Phenomenology requires Classification. Phenomenal
Geology.
5. Phenomenal Uranology.
6. Phenomenal Geography of Plants and Animals.
7. Phenomenal Glossology.
a The Study of Phenomena leads to Theory.
9. No sound Theory without .¿Etiology.
10. Causes in Paltetiology.
11. Various kinds of Cause.
12. Hypothetical Order of Palactiological Causes.
13. Mode of Cultivating .¿Etiology :—In Geology :
14. In the Geography of Plants and Animals:
15. In Languages.
16. Construction of Theories.
17. No sound Palactiological Theory yet extant.
C h a p . III. Of the D octrine of Catastrophes and t h e D oc­
trine of Un i f o r m i t y ...........................................
Art. 1. Doctrine of Catastrophes.
2. Doctrine of Uniformity.
3. Is Uniformity probable a priori ?
4. Cycle of Uniformity indefinite.
5. Uniformitarian Arguments are Negative only.
6. Uniformity in the Organic World.
7. Origin of the present Organic World.
8. Nebular Origin of the Solar System.
9. Origin of Languages.
10. No Natural Origin discoverable.
642
665
Digitized by Google
XXX11 CONTENTS OF THE FIRST VOLUME.
Paok
C hap. IV. Of the Relation of T radition to P aljETIolooy 680
Art. 1. Importance of Tradition.
2. Connexion of Tradition and Science.
3. Natural and Providential History of the World.
4. The Sacred Narrative.
5. Difficulties in interpreting the Sacred Narrative.
6. Such Difficulties inevitable.
7. Science tells us nothing concerning Creation.
8. Scientific views, when familiar, do not disturb the
authority of Scripture.
9. When should Old Interpretations be given up ?
10. In what Spirit should the Change be accepted ?
11. In what Spirit should the Change be urged?
12. Duty of Mutual Forbearance.
13. Case of Galileo.
Chap. V. Of the Conception of a F irst Cause . . . 700
Art. L The Origin of things is not naturally discoverable;
; 2. Yet has always been sought after.
3. There must be a First Cause.
1 4. This is an Axiom.
5. Involved in the Proof of a Deity.
6. The Mind is not satisfied without it.
7- The Whole Course of Nature must have a Cause.
8. Necessary Existence of God.
9. Forms of the Proof.
10. Idea of a First Cause is Necessary.
11. Conception of a First Cause.
12. The First Cause in all Sciences is the same.
13. We are thus led to Moral Subjects.
\ Conclusion of Part I.
Digitized by Googk
THE
PHILOSOPHY
OF THE
INDUCTIVE SCIENCES.
PART I.
OF IDEAS.
VOL. I. W. P. C
Digitized by Googk
Qme adhuc inventa sunt in Seientiis, ca hujuamodi sunt
ut Nutionibus Vulgaribua fere subjaceant: ut vero ad inte­
riora et remotiora Naturæ penetretur, necesse est ut tain
N otiones quam A xiomata magis certa et muDitâ viâ a
partieularibus abstrahantur ; atque omnino melior et certior
intellectûs adoperatio in usum veniat.
B acon, N ov. O r g Lib. i. Aphor. xviii.
Digitized by Googk
BOOK I.
OF IDEAS IN GENERAL.
Chapter I.
INTRODUCTION.
The Philosophy of Science, if the phrase were to be
understood in the comprehensive sense which most na­
turally offers itself to our thoughts, would imply nothing
less than a complete insight into the essence and con­
ditions of all real knowledge, and an exposition of the
best methods for the discovery of new truths. We must
narrow and lower this conception, in order to mould it
into a form in which we may make it the immediate
object of our labours with a good hope of success; yet
still it may be a rational and useful undertaking, to
endeavour to make some advance towards such a Philo­
sophy, even according to the most ample conception
of it which we can form. The present work has been
written with a view of contributing, in some measure,
however small it may be, towards such an undertaking.
But in this, as in every attempt to advance beyond
the position which we at present occupy, our hope of
success must depend mainly upon our being able to
profit, to the fullest extent, by the progress already
made. We may best hope to understand the nature and
conditions of real knowledge, by studying the nature
and conditions of the most certain and stable portions of
knowledge which we already possess : and we are most
likely to learn the best methods of discovering truth, by
VOL. i. w. p. B
Digitized by Googk
2 OF IDEAS IK GENERAL.
examining how truths, now universally recognized, have
really been discovered. Now there do exist among us
doctrines of solid and acknowledged certainty, and
truths of which the discovery has been received with
universal applause. These constitute what we com­
monly term Sciences ; and of these bodies of exact and
enduring knowledge, we have within our reach so large
and varied a collection, that we may examine them, and
the history of their formation, with a good prospect of
deriving from the study such instruction as we seek.
We may best hope to make some progress towards the
Philosophy of Science, by employing ourselves upon The
Philosophy of the Sciences.
The Sciences to which the name is most commonly
and unhesitatingly given, are those which are concerned
about the material world ; whether they deal with the
celestial bodies, as the sun and stars, or the earth and
its products, or the elements ; whether they consider the
differences which prevail among such objects, or their
origin, or their mutual operation. And in all these
Sciences it is familiarly understood and assumed, that
their doctrines are obtained by a common process of
collecting general truths from particular observed facts,
which process is termed Induction. It is further assumed
that both in these and in other provinces of knowledge,
so long as this process is duly and legitimately per­
formed, the results will be real substantial truth. And
although this process, with the conditions under which
it is legitimate, and the general laws of the formation of
Sciences, will hereafter be subjects of discussion in this
work, I shall at present so far adopt the assumption of
which I speak, as to give to the Sciences from which
our lessons are to be collected the name of Inductive
Sciences. And thus it is that I am led to designate my
work as The Philosophy of the Inductive Sciences.
Digitized by Googk
INTRODUCTION. 3
The views respecting the nature and progress of
knowledge, towards which we shall be directed by such
a course of inquiry as I have pointed out, though derived
from those portions of human knowledge which are
more peculiarly and technically termed Sciences, will by
no means be confined, in their bearing, to the domain of
such Sciences as deal with the material world, nor even
to the whole range of Sciences now existing. On the
contrary, we shall be led to believe that the nature of
truth is in all subjects the same, and that its discovery
involves, in all cases, the like conditions. On one sub­
ject of human speculation after another, man’s know­
ledge assumes that exact and substantial character which
leads us to term it Science; and in all these cases, whe­
ther inert matter or living bodies, whether permanent
relations or successive occurrences, be the subject of our
attention, we can point out certain universal characters
which belong to truth, certain general laws which have
regulated its progress among men. And we naturally
expect that, even when we extend our range of specu­
lation wider still, when we contemplate the world within
us as well as the world without us, when we consider
the thoughts and actions of men as well as the motions
and operations of unintelligent bodies, we shall still find
some general analogies which belong to the essence of
truth, and run through the whole intellectual universe.
Hence we have reason to trust that a just Philosophy of
the Sciences may throw light upon the nature and extent
of our knowledge in every department of human specu­
lation. By considering what is the real import of our
acquisitions, where they are certain and definite, we may
learn something respecting the difference between true
knowledge and its precarious or illusory semblances; by
examining the steps by which such acquisitions have
been made, we may discover the conditions under which
B 2
Digitized by Google
4 OF IDEAS IN GENERAL.
truth is to be obtained; by tracing the boundary-line
between our knowledge and our ignorance, we may
ascertain in some measure the extent of the powers of
man’s understanding.
But it may be said, in such a design there is nothing
new; these are objects at which inquiring men have
often before aimed. To determine the difference be­
tween real and imaginary knowledge, the conditions
under which we arrive at truth, the range of the powers
of the human mind, has been a favourite employment of
speculative men from the earliest to the most recent
times. To inquire into the original, certainty, and com­
pass of man’s knowledge, the limits of his capacity, the
strength and weakness of his reason, has been the pro­
fessed purpose of many of the most conspicuous and
valued labours of the philosophers of all periods up to
our own day. It may appear, therefore, that there is
little necessity to add one more to these numerous
essays'; and little hope that any new attempt will make
any very important addition to the stores of thought
upon such questions, which have been accumulated by
the profoundest and acutest thinkers of all ages.
To this I reply, that without at all disparaging the
value or importance of the labours of those who have
previously written respecting the foundations and con­
ditions of human knowledge, it may still be possible to
add something to what they have done. The writings of
all great philosophers, up to our own time, form a series
which is not yet terminated. The books and systems of
philosophy which have, each in its own time, won the
admiration of men, and exercised a powerful influence
upon their thoughts, have had each its own part and
functions in the intellectual history of the world; and
other labours which shall succeed these may also have
their proper office and useful effect. We may not be
Digitized by Googk
INTRODUCTION. 5
able'to do much, and yet still it may be in our power to
effect something. Perhaps the very advances made by
former inquirers may have made it possible for us, at
present, to advance still further. In the discovery of
truth, in the developement of man’s mental powers and
privileges, each generation has its assigned part; and it
is for us to endeavour to perform our portion of this
perpetual task of our species. Although the terms
which describe our undertaking may be the same which
have often been employed by previous writers to express
their purpose, yet our position is different from theirs,
and thus the result may be different too. We have, as
they had, to run our appropriate course of speculation
with the exertion of our best powers; but our course
lies in a more advanced part of the great line along
which Philosophy travels from age to age. However
familiar and old, therefore, be the design of such a work
as this, the execution may have, and if it be performed
in a manner suitable to the time, will have, something
that is new and not unimportant.
Indeed, it appears to be absolutely necessary, in
order to check the prevalence of grave and pernicious
errour, that the doctrines which are taught concerning
the foundations of human knowledge and the powers of
the human mind, should be from time to time revised
and corrected or extended. Erroneous and partial views
are promulgated and accepted; one portion of the truth
is insisted upon to the undue exclusion of another; or
principles true in themselves are exaggerated till they
produce on men’s minds the effect of falsehood. When
evils of this kind have grown to a serious height, a
Reform is requisite. The faults of the existing systems
must be remedied by correcting what is wrong, and sup­
plying what is wanting. In such cases, all the merits
and excellencies of the labours of the preceding times do
Digitized by Google
6 OF IDEAS IN GENERAL.
not supersede the necessity of putting forth new views
suited to the emergency which has arrived. The new
form which errour has assumed makes it proper to
endeavour to give a new and corresponding form to
truth. Thus the mere progress of time, and the natural
growth of opinion from one stage to another, leads to
the production of new systems and forms of philosophy.
It will be found, I think, that some of the doctrines now
most widely prevalent respecting the foundations and
nature of truth are of such a kind that a Reform is
needed. The present age seems, by many indications, to
be called upon to seek a sounder Philosophy of Know­
ledge than is now current among us. To contribute
towards such a Philosophy is the object of the present
work. The work is, therefore, like all works which
take into account the most recent forms of speculative
doctrine, invested with a certain degree of novelty in its
aspect and import, by the mere time and circumstances
of its appearance.
But, moreover, we can point out a very important
peculiarity by which this work is, in its design, distin­
guished from preceding essays on like subjects; and this
difference appears to be of such a kind as may well
entitle us to expect some substantial addition to our
knowledge as the result of our labours. The peculiarity
of which I speak has already been announced;—it is
this: that we purpose to collect our doctrines concerning
the nature of knowledge, and the best mode of acquiring
it, from a contemplation of the Structure and History of
those Sciences (the Material Sciences), which are univer­
sally recognized as the clearest and surest examples of
knowledge and of discovery. It is by surveying and
studying the whole mass of such Sciences, and the
various steps of their progress, that we now hope to
approach to the true Philosophy of Science.
Digitized by Google
INTRODUCTION. 7
' Now this, I venture to say, is a new method of pur­
suing the philosophy of human knowledge. Those who
have hitherto endeavoured to explain the nature of
knowledge, and the process of discovery, have, it is true,
often illustrated their views by adducing special exam­
ples of truths which they conceived to be established,
and by referring to the mode of their establishment.
But these examples have, for the most part, been taken
at random, not selected according to any principle or
system. Often they have involved doctrines so pre­
carious or so vague that they confused rather than eluci­
dated the subject; and instead of a single difficulty,—
What is the nature of Knowledge? these attempts at
illustration introduced two,—What was the true analysis
of the Doctrines thus adduced? and,—Whether they
might safely be taken as types of real Knowledge ?
This has usually been the case when there have
been adduced, as standard examples of the formation of
human knowledge, doctrines belonging to supposed sci­
ences other than the material sciences; doctrines, for
example, of Political Economy, or Philology, or Morals,
or the Philosophy of the Fine Arts. I am very far from
thinking that, in regard to such subjects, there are no
important truths hitherto established: but it would seem
that those truths which have been obtained in these
provinces of knowledge, have not yet been fixed by
means of distinot and permanent phraseology, and sanc­
tioned by universal reception, and formed into a con­
nected system, and traced through the steps of their
gradual discovery and establishment, so as to make them
instructive examples of the nature and progress of truth
in general. Hereafter we trust to be able to show that
the progress of moral, and political, and philological,
and other knowledge, is governed by the same laws as
that of physical science. But since, at present, the
Digitized by Googk
8 OF IDEAS IX GENERAL.
former class of subjects are full of controversy, doubt,
and obscurity, while the latter consist of undisputed
truths clearly understood and expressed, it may be con­
sidered a wise procedure to make the latter class of
doctrines the basis of our speculations. And on the
having taken this course, is, in a great measure, my
hope founded, of obtaining valuable truths which have
escaped preceding inquirers.
But it may be said that many preceding writers on
the nature and progress of knowledge have taken their
examples abundantly from the Physical Sciences. It
would be easy to point out admirable works, which have
appeared during the present and former generations, in
which instances of discovery, borrowed from the Phy­
sical Sciences, are introduced in a manner most happily
instructive. And to the works in which this has been
done, I gladly give my most cordial admiration. But at
the same time I may venture to remark that there still
remains a difference between my design and theirs: and
that I use the Physical Sciences as exemplifications of
the general progress of knowledge in a manner very
materially different from the course which is followed in
works such as are now referred to. For the conclusions
stated in the present work, respecting knowledge and
discovery, are drawn from a connected and systematic
survey of the whole range of Physical Science and its
H istory; whereas, hitherto, philosophers have contented
themselves with adducing detached examples of scientific
doctrines, drawn from one or two departments of science.
So long as we select our examples in this arbitrary and
limited manner, we lose the best part of that philosophi­
cal instruction, which the sciences are fitted to afford
when we consider them as all members of one series,
and as governed by rules which are the same for all.
Mathematical and chemical truths, physical and physio­
Digitized by Google
INTRODUCTION. 9
logical doctrines, the sciences of classification and of
causation, must alike be taken into our account, in order
that we may learn what are the general characters of
real knowledge. When our conclusions assume so com­
prehensive a shape that they apply to a range of sub­
jects so vast and varied as these, we may feel some con­
fidence that they represent the genuine form of universal
and permanent truth. But if our exemplification is of a
narrower kind, it may easily cramp and disturb our phi­
losophy. We may, for instance, render our views of
truth and its evidence so rigid and confined as to be
quite worthless, by founding them too much on the con­
templation of mathematical truth. We may overlook
some of the most important steps in the general course
of discovery, by fixing our attention too exclusively
upon some one conspicuous group of discoveries, as, for
instance, those of Newton. We may misunderstand the
nature of physiological discoveries, by attempting to
force an analogy between them and discoveries of me­
chanical laws, and by not attending to the intermediate
sciences which fill up the vast interval between these
extreme terms in the series of material sciences. In
these and in many other ways, a partial and arbitrary
reference to the material sciences in our inquiry into
human knowledge may mislead u s; or at least may fail
to give us those wider views, and that deeper insight,
which should result from a systematic study of the whole
range of sciences with this particular object.
The design of the following work, then, is to form a
Philosophy of Science, by analyzing the substance and
examining the progress of the existing body of the sci­
ences. As a preliminary to this undertaking, a survey
of the history of the sciences was necessary. This,
accordingly, I have already performed; and the result
of the labour thus undertaken has been laid before the
public as a History of the Inductive Sciences.
Digitized by Google
10 OF IDEAS IN GENERAL.
In that work I have endeavoured to trace the steps
by which men acquired each main portion of that know­
ledge on which they now look with so much confidence
and satisfaction. The events which that History relates,
the speculations and controversies which are there de­
scribed, and discussions of the same kind, far more
extensive, which are there omitted, must all be taken
into our account at present, as the prominent and
standard examples of the circumstances which attend
the progress of knowledge. With so much of real his­
torical fact before us, we may hope to avoid such views
of the processes of the human mind as are too partial
and limited, or too vague and loose, or too abstract and
unsubstantial, to represent fitly the real forms of dis­
covery and of truth.
Of former attempts, made with the same view of
tracing the conditions of the progress of knowledge, that
of Bacon is perhaps the most conspicuous: and his
labours on this subject were opened by his book on the
Advancement of Learning, which contains, among other
matter, a survey of the then existing state of knowledge.
But this review was undertaken rather with the object
of ascertaining in what quarters future advances were to
be hoped for, than of learning by what means they were
to be made. His examination of the domain of human
knowledge was conducted rather with the view of dis­
covering what remained undone, than of finding out how
so much had been done. Bacon’s survey was made for
the purpose of tracing the boundaries, rather than of
detecting the principles of knowledge. “ I will now
attempt,” he says*, “ to make a general and faithful
perambulation of learning, with an inquiry what parts
thereof lie fresh and waste, and not improved and con­
verted by the industry of man; to the end that such a
plot made and recorded to memory, may both minister
* Advancement of Learning, b. i. p. 74.
Digitized by Google
INTRODUCTION. 11
light to any public designation, and also serve to excite
voluntary endeavours.” Nor will it be foreign to our
scheme also hereafter to examine with a like purpose
the frontier-line of man’s intellectual estate. But the
object of our perambulation in the first place, is' not so
much to determine the extent of the field, as the sources
of its fertility. We would learn by what plan and rules
of culture, conspiring with the native forces of the boun­
teous soil, those rich harvests have been produced which
fill our garners. Bacon’s maxims, on the other hand,
respecting the mode in which he conceived that know­
ledge was thenceforth to be cultivated, have little refer­
ence to the failures, still less to the successes, which are
recorded in his Review of the learning of his time. His
precepts are connected with his historical views in a
slight and unessential manner. His Philosophy of the
Sciences is not collected from the Sciences which are
noticed in his survey. Nor, in truth, could this, at the
time when he wrote, have easily been otherwise. At
that period, scarce any branch of physics existed as a
science, except Astronomy. The rules which Bacon gives
for the conduct of scientific researches are obtained, as
it were, by divination, from the contemplation of sub­
jects with regard to which no sciences as yet were. His
instances of steps rightly or wrongly made in this path,
are in a great measure cases of his own devising. He
could not have exemplified bis Aphorisms by references
to treatises then extant, on the laws of nature; for the
constant burden of his exhortation is, that men up to
his time had almost universally followed an erroneous
course. And however we may admire the sagacity with
which he pointed the way along a better path, we have
this great advantage over him;—that we can interrogate
the many travellers who since his time have journeyed
on this road. At the present day, when we have under
Digitized by Google
1 2 OF IDEAS IN GENERAL.
our notice so many sciences, of such wide extent, so well
established; a Philosophy of the Sciences ought, it must
seem, to be founded, not upon conjecture, but upon an
examination of many instances;—should not consist of
a few ‘vague and unconnected maxims, difficult and
doubtful in their application, but should form a system
of which every part has been repeatedly confirmed and
verified.
This accordingly it is the purpose of the present
work to attempt. But I may further observe, that as
ray hope of making any progress in this undertaking is
founded upon the design of keeping constantly in view
the whole result of the past history and present con­
dition of science, I have also been led to draw my les­
sons from my examples in a manner more systematic
and regular, as appears to me, than has been done by
preceding writers. Bacon, as I have just said, was led
to his maxims for the promotion of knowledge by the
sagacity of his own mind, with little or no aid from
previous examples. Succeeding philosophers may often
have gathered useful instruction from the instances of
scientific truths and discoveries which they adduced, but
their conclusions were drawn from their instances casu­
ally and arbitrarily. They took for their moral any
which the story might suggest. But such a proceeding
as this cannot suffice for us, whose aim is to obtain a
consistent body of philosophy from a contemplation of
the whole of Science and its History. For our purpose
it is necessary to resolve scientific truths into their con­
ditions and ingredients, in order that we may see in
what manner each of these has been and is to be pro­
vided, in the cases which we may have to consider. This
accordingly is necessarily the first part of our task:— to
analyze Scientific Truth into its Elements. This attempt
will occupy the earlier portion of the present work ; and
Digitized by Googk
INTRODUCTION. 13
will necessarily be somewhat long, and perhaps, in many
parts, abstruse and uninviting. The risk of such an
inconvenience is inevitable; for the inquiry brings before
us many of the most dark and entangled questions in
which men have at any time busied themselves. And
even if these can now be made clearer and plainer than
of yore, still they can be made so only by means of men­
tal discipline and mental effort. Moreover this analysis
of scientific truth into its elements contains much, both
in its principles and in its results, different from the
doctrines most generally prevalent among us in recent
times: but on that very account this analysis is an
essential part of the doctrines which I have now to lay
before the reader: and I must therefore crave his
indulgence towards any portion of it which may appear
to him obscure or repulsive.
There is another circumstance which may tend to
make the present work less pleasing than others on the
same subject, in the nature of the examples of human
knowledge to which I confine myself; all my instances
being, as I have said, taken from the material sciences.
For the truths belonging to these sciences are, for the
most part, neither so familiar nor so interesting to the
bulk of readers as those doctrines which belong to some
other subjects. Every general proposition concerning
politics or morals at once stirs up an interest in men’s
bosoms, which makes them listen with curiosity to the
attempts to trace it to its origin and foundation. Every
rule of art or language brings before the mind of culti­
vated men subjects of familiar and agreeable thought,
and is dwelt upon with pleasure for its own sake, as well
as on account of the philosophical lessons which it may
convey. But the curiosity which regards the truths of
physics or chemistry, or even of physiology and astro­
nomy, is of a more limited and less animated kind.
Digitized by Googk
14 OF IDEAS IN GENERAL.
Hence, in the mode of inquiry which I have prescribed
to myself the examples which I have to adduce will not
amuse and relieve the reader’s mind as much as they
might do, if I could allow myself to collect them from
the whole field of human knowledge. They will have in
them nothing to engage his fancy, or to warm his heart.
I am compelled to detain the listener in the chilly air
of the external world, in order that we may have the
advantage of full daylight.
But although I cannot avoid this inconvenience, so
far as it is one, I hope it will be recollected how great
are the advantages which we obtain by this restriction.
We are thus enabled to draw all our conclusions from
doctrines which are universally allowed to be eminently
certain, clear, and definite. The portions of knowledge
to which I refer are well known, and well established
among men. Their names are familiar, their assertions
uncontested. Astronomy and Geology, Mechanics and
Chemistry, Optics and Acoustics, Botany and Physiology,
are each recognized as large and substantial collections
of undoubted truths. Men are wont to dwell with pride
and triumph on the acquisitions of knowledge which
have been made in each of these provinces; and to speak
with confidence of the certainty of their results. And all
can easily learn in what repositories these treasures of
human knowledge are to be found. When, therefore,
we begin our inquiry from such examples, we proceed
upon a solid foundation. With such a clear ground of
confidence, we shall not be met with general assertions
of the vagueness and uncertainty of human knowledge ;
with the question, What truth is, and How we are to
recognize it; with complaints concerning the hopeless­
ness and unprofitableness of such researches. We have,
at least, a definite problem before us. We have to
examine the structure and scheme, not of a shapeless
Digitized by Google
INTRODUCTION. 15
mass of incoherent materials, of which we doubt whether
it be a ruin or a natural wilderness, but of a fair and
lofty palace, still erect and tenanted, where hundreds of
different apartments belong to a common plan, where
every generation adds something to the extent and mag­
nificence of the pile. The certainty and the constant
progress of science are things so unquestioned, that we
are at least engaged in an intelligible inquiry, when we
are examining the grounds and nature of that certainty,
the causes and laws of that progress.
To this enquiry, then, we now proceed. And in
entering upon this task, however our plan or our prin­
ciples may differ from those of the eminent philosophers
who have endeavoured, in our own or in former times,
to illustrate or enforce the philosophy of science, we
most willingly acknowledge them as in many things our
leaders and teachers. Each reform must involve its own
peculiar principles, and the result of our attempts, so
far as they lead to a result, must be, in some respects,
different from those of former works. But we may still
share with the great writers who have treated this
subject before us, their spirit of hope and trust, their
reverence for the dignity of the subject, their belief in
the vast powers and boundless destiny of man. And we
may once more venture to use the words of hopeful
exhortation, with which the greatest of those who have
trodden this path encouraged himself and his followers
when he set out upon his way.
“ Concerning ourselves we speak not; but as touch­
ing the matter which we have in hand, this we ask;—
that men deem it not to be the setting up an Opinion,
but the performing of a Work: and that they receive
this as a certainty; that we are not laying the founda­
tions of any sect or doctrine, but of the profit and
dignity of mankind. Furthermore, that being well dis­
Digitized by Googk
16 OF IDEAS IN GENERAL.
posed to what shall advantage themselves, and pu ttin g1
off factions and prejudices, they take common counsel
with us, to the end that being by these our aids and
appliances freed and defended from wanderings and
impediments, they may lend their hands also to the
labours which remain to be performed: and yet further,
that they be of good hope; neither imagine to them ­
selves this our Reform as something of infinite dimen­
sion, and beyond the grasp of mortal man, when in truth
it is the end and true limit of infinite errour; and is by-
no means unmindful of the condition of mortality and
humanity, not confiding that such a thing can be carried
to its perfect close in the space of one single age, but
assigning it as a task to a succession of generations.”
Chapter II.
OF TH E FU N D A M EN TA L A N T IT H ESIS OF
PH ILO SO PH Y.
Sect. 1.— Thoughts and Things.
In order that we may do something towards determining
the nature and conditions of human knowledge, (which
I have already stated as the purpose of this work,) I
shall have to refer to an antithesis or opposition, which
is familiar and generally recognized, and in which the
distinction of the things opposed to each other is com­
monly considered very clear and plain. I shall have to
attempt to make this opposition sharper and stronger
than it is usually conceived, and yet to shew that the
distinction is far from being so clear and definite as it is
usually assumed to b e: I shall have to point the con­
trast, yet shew that the things which are contrasted
Digitized by Googk
FUNDAMENTAL ANTITHESIS OF PHILOSOPHY. 17
Cannot be separated:— I must explain that the anti­
thesis is constant and essential, but yet that there is no
fixed and permanent line dividing its members. I may
thus appear, in different parts of my discussion, to be
proceeding in opposite directions, but I hope that the
reader who gives me a patient attention will see that
both steps lead to the point of view to which I wish to
lead him. .
The antithesis or opposition of which I speak is
denoted, with various modifications, by various pairs of
terms: I shall endeavour to show the connexion of these
different modes of expression, and I will begin with that
form which is the simplest and most idiomatic.
The simplest and most idiomatic expression of the
antithesis to which I refer is that in which we oppose to
each other Things and Thoughts. The opposition is
familiar and plain. Our Thoughts are something which
belongs to ourselves; something which takes place
within n s; they are what nethink; they a
our minds. Things, on the contrary, are something
different from ourselves and independent of us; some­
thing which is without us; they we see them,
touch them, and thus know that they exist; but we do
not make them by seeing or touching them, as we make
our Thoughts by thinking' them; we are passive, and
Things act upon our organs of perception.
. Now what I wish especially to remark is this: that
in all human Knowledge both Thoughts and Things are
concerned. In every part of my knowledge there must
be some thing about which I know, and an internal act
of me who know. Thus, to take simple yet definite parts
of our knowledge, if I know that a solar year consists of
365 days, or a lunar month of 30 days, I know some­
thing about the sun or the moon; namely, that those
pbjects perform certain revolutions and go through cer-
vol. i. w. p. C
Digitized by Googk
18 OF IDEAS IN GENERAL.
tain changes, in those numbers of days; but I count
such numbers and conceive such revolutions and changes
by acts of my own thoughts. And both these elements
of my knowledge are indispensable. If there were not
such external Things as the sun and the moon I could
not have any knowledge of the progress of time as
marked by them. And however regular were the mo­
tions of the sun and moon, if I could not count their
appearances and combine their changes into a cycle, or
if I could not understand this when done by other men,
I could not know anything about a year or a month. In
the former case I might be conceived as a human being,
possessing the human powers of thinking and reckoning,
but kept in a dark world with nothing to mark the pro­
gress of existence. The latter is the case of brute ani­
mals, which see the sun and moon, but do not know how
many days make a month or a year, because they have
not human powers of thinking and reckoning.
The two elements which are essential to our know­
ledge in the above cases, are necessary to human know­
ledge in all cases. In all cases, Knowledge implies a
combination of Thoughts and Things. Without this
combination, it would not be Knowledge. Without
Thoughts, there could be no connexion; without Things,
there could be no reality. Thoughts and Things are so
intimately combined in our Knowledge, that we do not
look upon them as distinct. One single act of the mind
involves them both; and their contrast disappears in
their union.
But though Knowledge requires the union of these
two elements, Philosophy requires the separation of
them, in order that the nature and structure of Know­
ledge may be seen. Therefore I begin by considering
this separation. And I now proceed to speak of another
way of looking at the antithesis of which I have spoken;
Digitized by Goo< '
and which I may, for the reasons which I have just
mentioned, call the F undamental Antithesis of Phi­
losophy.
— Necessaiy and Experiential Truths.
Most persons are familiar with the distinction of ne­
cessary and contingent truths. The former kind are
Truths which cannot but be true; as that 19 and 11
make 30 ;—that parallelograms upon the same base and
between the same parallels are equal:—that all the
angles in the same segment of a circle are equal. The
latter are Truths which it happens are true ;
but which, for any thing which we can see, might have
been otherwise ; as that a lunar month contains 30 days,
or that the stars revolve in circles round the pole. The
latter kind of Truths are learnt by experience, and hence
we may call them Truths of Experience, or, for the sake
of convenience, Experiential Truths, in contrast with
Necessary Truths.
Geometrical propositions are the most manifest ex­
amples of Necessary Truths. All persons who have read
and understood the elements of geometry, know that the
propositions above stated (that parallelograms upon the
same base and between the same parallels are equal;
that all the angles in the same segment of a circle are
equal,) are necessarily true ; not only they are true, but
they must be true. The meaning of the terms being
understood, and the proof being gone through, the truth
of the propositions must be assented to. We learn these
propositions to be true by demonstrations deduced from
definitions and axioms ; and when we have thus learnt
them, we see that they could not be otherwise. In the
same manner, the truths which concern numbers are
necessary truths: 19 and 11 not only do make 30, but
must make that number, and cannot make anything else.
c 2
FUNDAMENTAL ANTITHESIS OF PHILOSOPHY. 19
Digitized by Googk
20 OF IDEAS IN GENERAL.
In the same manner, it is a necessary truth that half the:
sum of two numbers added to half their difference is.
equal to the greater number.
It is easy to find examples of Experiential Truths
propositions which we know to be true, but know by
experience only. We know, in this way, that salt will
dissolve in water; that plants cannot live without light;
—in short, we know in this way all that we do know-
in chemistry, physiology, and the material sciences in
general. I take the Sciences as my examples of human
knowledge, rather than the common truths of daily life,
or moral or political truths; because, though the latter
are more generally interesting, the former are much
more definite and certain, and therefore better starting-
points for our speculations, as I have already said. And
we may take elementary astronomical truths as the most
familiar examples of Experiential Truths in the domain
of science.
With these examples, the distinction of Necessary
and Experiential Truths is, I hope, clear. The former
kind, we see to be true by thinking about them, and see
that they could not be otherwise. The latter kind, men
could never have discovered to be true without looking
at them; and having so discovered them, still no one will
pretend to say they might not have been otherwise. For
aught we can see, the astronomical truths which express
the motions and periods of the sun, moon and stars,
might have been otherwise. If we had been placed in
another part of the solar system, our experiential truths
respecting days, years, and the motions of the heavenly
bodies, would have been other than they are, as we
know from astronomy itself.
It is evident that this distinction of Necessary and
Experiential Truths involves the same antithesis which
we have already considered;—the antithesis of Thoughts.
Digitized by Googk
FUNDAMENTAL ANTITHESIS OF PHILOSOPHY. 21
and Things. Necessary Truths are derived from our own
Thoughts: Experiential Truths are derived from our
observation of Things about us. The opposition of
Necessary and Experiential Truths is another aspect of
the Fundamental Antithesis of Philosophy.
Sect. 3.—Deduction and Induction.
I have already stated that geometrical truths are
established by demonstrations deduced from definitions
and axioms. The term Deduction is specially applied
to such a course of demonstration of truths from defini­
tions and axioms. In the case of the parallelograms
upon the same base and between the same parallels, we
prove certain triangles to be equal, by supposing them
placed so that their two bases have the same extremi­
ties; and hence, referring to an Axiom respecting straight
lines, we infer that the bases coincide. We combine
these equal triangles with other equal spaces, and in this
way make up both the one and the other of the paral­
lelograms, in such a manner as to shew that they are
equal. In this manner, going on step by step, deducing
the equality of the triangles from the axiom, and the
equality of the parallelograms from that of the triangles,
we travel to the conclusion. And this process of suc­
cessive deduction is the scheme of all geometrical proof.
We begin with Definitions of the notions which we reason
about, and with Axioms, or self-evident truths, respecting
these notions; and we get, by reasoning from these, other
truths which are demonstratively evident; and from
these truths again, others of the same kind, and so on.
We begin with our own Thoughts, which supply us with
Axioms to start from; and we reason from these, till we
come to propositions which are applicable to the Things
about us; as for instance, the propositions respecting
circles and spheres are applicable to the motions of the
Digitized by Googk
22 OF IDEAS IN GENERAL.
heavenly bodies. This is Deduction, or D eductive R ea­
soning,
Experiential truths are acquired in a very different
■way. In order to obtain such truths, we begin with
Things. In order to learn how many days there are in
a year, or in a lunar month, we must begin by observing
the sun and the moon. We must observe their changes
day by day, and try to make the cycle of change fit into
some notion of number which we supply from our own
Thoughts. We shall find that a cycle of 30 days nearly
will fit the changes of phase of the moon;—that a cycle
of 365 days nearly will fit the changes of daily motion
of the sun. Or, to go on to experiential truths of
which the discovery comes within the limits of the his­
tory of science—we shall find (as Hipparchus found)
that the unequal motion of the sun among the stars,
such as observation shews it to be, may be fitly repre­
sented by the notion of an eccentric;—a circle in which
the sun has an equable annual motion, the spectator not
being in the center of the circle. Again, in the same
manner, at a later period, Kepler started from more
exact observations of the sun, and compared them with
a supposed motion in a certain ellipse; and was able to
shew that, not a circle about an eccentric point, but an
ellipse, supplied the mode of conception which truly
agreed with the motion of the sun about the earth; or
rather, as Copernicus had already shewn, of the earth
about the sun. In such cases, in which truths are ob­
tained by beginning from observation of external things
and- by finding some notion with which the Things, as
observed, agree, the truths are said to be obtained by
Induction. The process is an Inductive Process.
The contrast of the Deductive and Inductive process
is obvious. In the former, we proceed at each step
from general truths to particular applications of them;
Digitized by Googk
in the latter, from particular observations to a general
truth which includes them. In the former case we
may be said to reason downwarin the latt
upwards; for general notions are conceived as stand­
ing above particulars. Necessary truths are proved,
like arithmetical sums, by adding together the portions
of which they consist. An inductive truth is proved,
like the guess which answers a riddle, by its agreeing
with the facts described. Demonstation is irresistible
in its effect on the belief but does not produce surprize,
because all the steps to the conclusion are exhibited,
before we arrive at the conclusion. Inductive infer­
ence is not demonstrative, but it is often more striking
than demonstrative reasoning, because the intermediate
links between the particulars and the inference are not
shown. Deductive truths are the results of relations
among our own Thoughts. Inductive Truths are re­
lations which we discern among existing Things; and
thus, this opposition of Deduction and Induction is again
an aspect of the Fundamental Antithesis already spoken
of.
Sect. 4.— Theories and Facts.
General experiential Truths, such as we have just
spoken of are called Theories, and the particular
observations from which they are collected, and which
they include and explain, are called Facts. Thus Hip­
parchus’s doctrine, that the sun moves in an eccentric
about the earth, is his Theory of the Sun, or the Eccen­
tric Theory. The doctrine of Kepler, that the Earth
moves in an Ellipse about the Sun, is Kepler's Theory
of the Earth, the Elliptical Theory. Newton’s doctrine
that this elliptical motion of the Earth about the Sun
is produced and governed by the Sun’s attraction upon
the Earth, is the Newtonian theory, the Theory of
Attraction. Each of these Theories was accepted, be­
FUNDAMENTAL ANTITHESIS OF PHILOSOPHY. 23
Digitized by Googk
24 OF IDEAS IN GENERAL.
cause it included, connected and explained the Facts':
the Facts being, in the two former cases, the motions
of the Sun as observed; and in the other case, the ellip­
tical motion of the Earth as known by Kepler’s Theory.
This antithesis of Theory and Fact is included in what
has just been said of Inductive Propositions. A Theory
is an Inductive Proposition, and the Facts are the par­
ticular observations from which, as I have said, such
Propositions are inferred by Induction. The Antithesis
of Theory and Fact implies the fundamental Antithesis
of Thoughts and Things; for a Theory (that is, a true
Theory) may be described as a Thought which is con­
templated distinct from Things and seen to agree with
them; while a Fact is a combination of our Thoughts
with Things in so complete agreement that we do not
regard them as separate.
Thus the antithesis of Theory and Fact involves the
antithesis of Thoughts and Things, but is not identical
with it. Facts involve Thoughts, for we know Facts only
by thinking about them. The Fact that the year consists
of 365 days; the Fact that the month consists of 30 days,
cannot be known to us, except we have the Thoughts
of Time, Number and Recurrence. But these Thoughts
are so familiar, that we have the Fact in our mind
as a simple Thing without attending to the Thought
which it involves. When we mould our Thoughts into a
Theory, we consider the Thought as distinct from the
Facts; but yet, though distinct, not independent of them;
for it is a true Theory* only by including and agreeing
with the Facts.
Sect. 5.—Ideas and Sensations.
We have just seen that the antithesis of Theory and
Fact, although it involves the antithesis of Thoughts and
Things, is not identical with it. There are other inodes
Digitized by Google
of expression also, which involve the same Fundamental
Antithesis, more or less modified. Of these, the pair of
Words which in their relations appear to separate the
members of the antithesis most distinctly are Ideas and
Sensations. We see and hear and touch external things,
and thus perceive them by our senses; but in perceiving
them, we connect the impressions of sense according to
relations of space, time, number, likeness, cause, &c.
Now some at least of these kinds of connexion, as space,
time, number, may be contemplated distinct from the
things to which they are applied; and so contemplated,
I term them Ideas. And the other element, the impres­
sions upon our senses which they connect, are called
Sensations.
I term space, time, cause, &c., Ideas, because they
are general relations among our sensations, apprehend­
ed by an act of the mind, not by the senses simply.
These relations involve something beyond what the
senses alone could furnish. By the sense of sight we
see various shades and colours and shapes before us, but
the outlines by which they are separated into distinct
objects of definite forms, are the work of the mind itself.
And again, when we conceive visible things, not only as
surfaces of a certain form, but as solid bodies, placed at
•various distances in space, we again exert an act of the
mind upon them. When we see a body move, we see
it move in a path or orbit, but this orbit is not itself
•seen; it is constructed by the mind. In like manner
when we see the motions of a needle towards a mag­
net, we do not see the attraction or force which pro­
duces the effects; but we infer the force, by having in
our minds the Idea of Cause. Such acts of thought,
such Ideas, enter into our perceptions of external things.
But though our perceptions of external things in-
yolve soipe act of the mind, they must involve some­
FUNDAMENTAL ANTITHESIS OF PHILOSOPHY. 25
Digitized by Googk
26 OF IDEAS IN GENERAL.
thing else besides an act of the mind. If we must exer­
cise an act of thought in order to see force exerted, or
orbits described by bodies in motion, or even in order
to see bodies existing in space, and to distinguish one
kind of object from another, still the act of thought
alone does not make the bodies. There must be some­
thing besides, on which the thought is exerted. A
colour, a form, a sound, are not produced by the mind,
however they may be moulded, combined, and inter­
preted by our mental acts. A philosophical poet has
spoken of
All the world
Of eye and ear, both what they half create,
And what perceive.
But it is clear, that though they half create, they do not
wholly create: there must be an external world of colour
and sound to give impressions to the eye and ear, as
well as internal powers by which we perceive what is
offered to our organs. The mind is in some way passive
as well as active: there are objects without as well as
faculties within;—Sensations, as well as acts of Thought.
Indeed this is so far generally acknowledged, that
according to common apprehension, the mind is passive
rather than active in acquiring the knowledge which
it receives concerning the material world. Its sensa­
tions are generally considered more distinct than its
operations. The world without is held to be more clearly
real than the faculties within. That there is some­
thing different from ourselves, something external to us,
something independent of us, something which no act
of our minds can make or can destroy, is held by all
men to be at least as evident, as that our minds can
exert any effectual process in modifying and appreciating
the impressions made upon them. Most persons are
more likely to doubt whether the mind be always actively
Digitized by Googk
applying Ideas to the objects which it perceives, than
whether it perceive them passively by means of Sen­
sations.
But yet a little consideration will show us that an
activity of the mind, and an activity according to certain
Ideas, is requisite in all our knowledge of external
objects. We see objects, of various solid forms, and at
various distances from us. But we do not thus perceive
them by sensation alone. Our visual impressions can­
not, of themselves, convey to us a knowledge of solid
form, or of distance from us. Such knowledge is inferred
from what we see:—inferred by conceiving the objects
as existing in space, and by applying to them the Idea of
Space. Again:— day after day passes, till they make up a
year: but we do not know that the days are 365, except
we count them; and thus apply to them our Idea of Num­
ber. Again:—we see a needle drawn to a magnet: but,
in truth, the dramng is what we cannot see. We see the
needle move, and infer the attraction, by applying to the
fact our Idea of Force, as the cause of motion. Again:—
we see two trees of different kinds; but we cannot know
that they are so, except by applying to them our Idea
of the resemblance and difference which makes kinds.
And thus Ideas, as well as Sensations, necessarily enter
into all our knowledge of objects: and these two words
express, perhaps more exactly than any of the pairs
'before mentioned, that Fundamental Antithesis, in the
union of which, as I have said, all knowledge consists.
Sect 6.—Reflexion and Sensation.
It will hereafter be my business to show what the
Ideas are, which thus enter into our knowledge; and
how each Idea has been, as a matter of historical fact,
introduced into the Science to which it especially be­
longs. But before I proceed to do this, I will notice
FUNDAMENTAL ANTITHESIS OF PHILOSOPHY. 27
Digitized by Google
28 OF IDEAS IN GENERAL.
some other terms, besides the phrases already noticed;
which have a reference, more or less direct, to the Funda­
mental Antithesis of Ideas and Sensations. I will mention
some of these, in order that if they should come under
the reader’s notice, he may not be perplexed as to their
bearing upon the view here presented to him.
The celebrated doctrine of Locke, that all our
“ Ideas,” (that is, in his use of the word, all our objects
of thinking,) come from Sensation or Reflexion, will
naturally occur to the reader as connected with the
antithesis of which I have been speaking. But there is
a great difference between Locke’s account of Sensation
and Reflexion, and our view of Sensation and Ideas. He
is speaking of the origin of our knowledge;—we, of its
nature and composition. He is content to say that all
the knowledge which we do not receive directly by
Sensation, we obtain by Reflex Acts of the mind, which
make up his Reflexion. But we hold that there is no
Sensation without an act of the mind, and that the
mind’s activity is not only reflexly exerted upon itself,
but directly upon objects, so as to perceive in them con­
nexions and relations which are not Sensations. He is
content to put together, under the name of Reflexion,
everything in our knowledge which is not Sensation: we
are to attempt to analyze all that is not Sensation; not
only to say it consists of Ideas, but to point out what
those Ideas are, and to show the mode in which each of
them enters into our knowledge. His purpose was, to
prove that there are no Ideas, except the reflex acts of
the mind: our endeavour will be to show that the acts of
the mind, both direct and reflex, are governed by certain
Laws, which may be conveniently termed Ideas. His
procedure was, to deny that any knowledge could be
derived from the mind alone: our course will be, to
show that in every part of our most certain and exact
Digitized by Google
knowledge, those who have added to our knowledge in
every age have referred to principles which the mind
itself supplies. I do not say that my view is contrary to
his: but it is altogether different from his. If I grant
that all our knowledge comes from Sensation and Re­
flexion, still my task then is only begun; for I want
further to determine, in each science, what portion
comes, not from mere Sensation, but from those Ideas
by the aid of which either Sensation or Reflexion can
lead to Science.
Locke’s use of the word “ idea” is, as the reader will
perceive, different from ours. He uses the word, as he
says, which “ serves best to stand for whatsoever is the
object of the understanding when a man thinks.” “ I
have used it,” he adds, “ to express whatever is meant by
phantasm, notion, species, or whatever it is i6 which the
mind can be employed about in thinking.” It might be
shown that this separation of the mind itself from the
ideal objects about which it is employed in thinking, may
lead to very erroneous results. But it may suffice to ob­
serve that we use the word Ideas, in the manner already
explained, to express that element, supplied by the mind
itself which must be combined with Sensation in order
to produce knowledge. For us, Ideas are not Objects of
Thought, but rather Laws of Thought. Ideas are not
synonymous with Notions; they are Principles which
give to our Notions whatever they contain of truth. But
our use of the term Idea will be more fully explained
hereafter.
Sect. 7—Subjective and Objective. *
The Fundamental Antithesis of Philosophy of which I
have to speak has been brought into great prominence
in the writings of modern German philosophers, and has
conspicuously formed the basis of their systems. They
FUNDAMENTAL ANTITHESIS OF PHILOSOPHY. 29
Digitized by Googk
30 OF IDEAS IN GENERAL.
have indicated this antithesis by the terms subjective and’
objective. According to the technical language of old
writers, a thing and its qualities are described as subject
and a t t r i b u t e s ;and thus a man’s faculties and acts
attributes of which he is the The mind is the
subject in which ideas inhere. Moreover, the man’s
faculties and acts are employed upon external objects;
and from objects all his sensations arise. Hence the
part of a man’s knowledge which belongs to his own
mind, is subjective: that which flows in upon him from
the world external to him, is objective. And as in man’s
contemplation of nature, there is always some act of
thought which depends upon himselfj and some matter
of thought which is independent of him, there is, in every
part of his knowledge, a subjective and an objective
element. The combination of the two elements, the
subjective or ideal, and the objective or observed, is
necessary, in order to give us any insight into the laws of
nature. But different persons, according to their mental
habits and constitution, may be inclined to dwell by
preference upon the one or the other of these two
elements. It may perhaps interest the reader to see
this difference of intellectual character illustrated in two
eminent men of genius of modern times, Gothe and
Schiller.
Gothe himself gives us the account to which I refer,
in his history of the progress of his speculations con­
cerning the Metamorphosis of Plants; a mode of viewing
their structure by which he explained, in a very striking
and beautiful manner, the relations of the different parts
of a plant to each other; as has been narrated in the
History of the Inductive Sciences. Gothe felt a delight
in the passive contemplation of nature, unmingled with
the desire of reasoning and theorizing; a delight such as
naturally belongs to those poets who merely embody the
Digitized by Google
images which a fertile genius suggests, and do not mix
with these pictures, judgments and reflexions of their
own. Schiller, on the other hand, both by his own
strong feeling of the value of a moral purpose in poetry,
and by his adoption of a system of metaphysics in which
the subjective element was made very prominent, was
well disposed to recognize fully the authority of ideas
over external impressions.
Gothe for a time felt a degree of estrangement
towards Schiller, arising from this contrariety in their
views and characters. But on one occasion they fell
into discussion on the study of natural history; and
Gothe endeavoured to impress upon his companion his
persuasion that nature was to be considered, not as com­
posed of detached and incoherent parts, but as active
and alive, and unfolding herself in each portion, in
virtue of principles which pervade the whole. Schiller
objected that no such view of the objects of natural
history had been pointed out by observation, the only
guide which the natural historians recommended; and
was disposed on this account to think the whole of their
study narrow and shallow. “ Upon this,” says Gothe,
“ I expounded to him, in as lively a way as I could, the
metamorphosis of plants, drawing on paper for him, as I
proceeded, a diagram to represent that general form of
a plant which shows itself in so many and so various
transformations. Schiller attended and understood; and,
accepting the explanation, he said,4This is not observa­
tion, but an idea.’ I replied,” adds Gothe, “ with some
degree of irritation; for the point which separated us
was most luminously marked by this expression; but I
smothered my vexation, and merely said, 41 was happy
to find that I had got ideas without knowing it; nay,
that I saw them before my eyes.’” Gothe then goes on
to say, that he had been grieved to the very soul by
FUNDAMENTAL ANTITHESIS OF PHILOSOPHY. 31
Digitized by Googk
32 OF IDEAS IN GENERAL.
maxims promulgated by Schiller, that no observed fact'
ever could correspond with an idea. Since he himself
loved best to wander in the domain of external observa­
tion, he had been led to look with repugnance and
hostility upon anything which professed to depend upon,
ideas. “ Yet,” he observes, “ it occurred to me that if
my Observation was identical with his Idea, there must
be some common ground on which we might meet.”
They went on with their mutual explanations, and be­
came intimate and lasting friends. “And thus,” adds
the poet, “ by means of that mighty and interminable
controversy between object and subject, we two concluded
an alliance which remained unbroken, and produced
much benefit to ourselves and others.”
The general diagram of a plant, of which Gothe
here speaks, must have been a combination of lines and
marks expressing the relations of position and equiva­
lence among the elements of vegetable forms, by which
so many of their resemblances and differences may be
explained. Such a symbol is not an Idea in that general
sense in which we propose to use the term, but is a
particular modification of the general Ideas of symmetry,
developement, and the like; and we shall hereafter see,
according to the phraseology which we shall explain in
the next chapter, how such a diagram might express
the ideal conception of a plant.
The antithesis of subjective and objective is very
familiar in the philosophical literature of Germany and
France; nor is it uncommon in any age of our own
literature. But though efforts have recently been made
to give currency among us to this phraseology, it has
not been cordially received, and has been much com-,
plained of as not of obvious meaning. Nor is the com­
plaint without ground: for when we regard the mind as
the subject in which ideas inhere, it becomes for us an
Digitized by Google
object, and the antithesis vanishes. We are not so
much accustomed to use subject in this sense, as to
make it a proper contrast to object. The combination
“ ideal and o
b
j
e
c
t
i
v
e,
” would more readily convey to a
modern reader the opposition which is intended between
the ideas of the mind itself, and the objects which it
contemplates around it.
To the antitheses already noticed—Thoughts and
Things; Necessary and Experiential Truths; Deduction
and Induction; Theory and Fact; Ideas and Sensations;
Reflexion and Sensation; Subjective and Objective; we
may add others, by which distinctions depending more
or less upon the fundamental antithesis have been de­
noted. Thus we speak of the internal and external
sources of our knowledge; of the world within and the
world without us; of Man and Nature. Some of the
more recent metaphysical writers of Germany have
divided the universe into the Me and the Not-me (Ich
and Nicht-ich). Upon such phraseology we may observe,
that to have the fundamental antithesis of which we
speak really understood, is of the highest consequence
to philosophy, but that little appears to be gained by
expressing it in any novel manner. The most weighty
part of the philosopher’s task is to analyze the operations
of the mind; and in this task, it can aid us but little to
call it, instead of the mind, the subject, or the me.
Sect. 8.—Matter and Form.
There are some other ways of expressing, or rather
of illustrating, the fundamental antithesis, which I may
briefly notice. The antithesis has been at different times
presented by means of various images. One of the most
ancient of these, and one w'hich is still very instructive,
is that which speaks of Sensations as the Matter, and
Ideas as the Form, of our knowledge; just as ivory is
VOL. i. w. p. D
FUNDAMENTAL ANTITHESIS OF PHILOSOPHY. 3 3
Digitized by Googk
34 OF IOKAS IN GENERAL.
the matter, and a cube the form, of a die. This com­
parison has the advantage of showing that two elements
of an antithesis which cannot be separated in fact, may
yet be advantageously separated in our reasonings. For
Matter and Form cannot by any means be detached
from each other. All matter must have some form ; all
form must be the form of some material thing. If the
ivory be not a cube, it must have a spherical or some
other form. And the cube, in order to be a cube, must
be of some material ;—if not of ivory, of wood, or stone,
for instance. A figure without matter is merely a geo­
metrical conception ;—a modification of the idea of
space. Matter without figure is a mere abstract term ;
—a supposed union of certain sensible qualities which,
so insulated from others, cannot exist. Yet the distinc­
tion of Matter and Form is real; and, as a subject of
contemplation, clear and plain. Nor is the distinction by
any means useless. The speculations which treat of the
two subjects, Matter and Figure, are very different.
Matter is the subject of the sciences of Mechanics and
Chemistry ; Figure, of Geometry. These two classes of
Sciences have quite different sets of principles. If we
refuse to consider the Matter and the Form of bodies
separately, because we cannot exhibit Matter and Form
separately, we shut the door to all philosophy on such
subjects. In like manner, though Sensations and Ideas
are necessarily united in all our knowledge, they can be
considered as distinct; and this distinction is the basis of
all philosophy concerning knowledge.
This illustration of the relation of Ideas and Sensa­
tions may enable us to estimate a doctrine which has been
put forwards at various times. In a certain school of spe­
culators there has existed a disposition to derive all our
Ideas from our Sensations, the term being, in this
school, used in its wider sense, so as to include all modifi­
Digitized by Google
cations and limitations of our Fundamental Ideas. The
doctrines of this school have been summarily expressed
by saying that “ Every Idea is a transformed Sensation.”
Now, even supposing this assertion to be exactly true,
we easily see, from what has been said, how little we
are likely to answer the ends of philosophy by putting
forward such a maxim as one of primary importance.
For we might say, in like manner, that every statue is
but a transformed block of marble, or every edifice but
a collection of transformed stones. But what would
these assertions avail us, if our object were to trace the
rules of art by which beautiful statues were formed, or
great works of architecture erected ? The question
naturally occurs, What is the nature, the principle, the
law of this Transformation ? In what faculty resides the
transforming power? What train of ideas of beauty,
and symmetry, and stability, in the mind of the statuary
or the architect, has produced those great works which
mankind look upon as among their most valuable pos­
sessions;—the Apollo of the Belvidere, the Parthenon,
the Cathedral of Cologne ? When this is what we want
to know, how are we helped by learning that the Apollo
is of Parian marble, or the Cathedral of basaltic stone ?
We must know much more than this, in order to acquire
any insight into the principles of statuary or of archi­
tecture. In like manner, in order that we may make
any progress in the philosophy of knowledge, which is
our purpose, we must endeavour to learn something
further respecting ideas than that they are transformed
sensations, even if they were this.
But, in reality, the assertion that our ideas are trans­
formed sensations, is erroneous as well as frivolous. For
it conveys, and is intended to convey, the opinion that
our sensations have one form which properly belongs to
them; and that, in order to become ideas, they are con­
D a
FUNDAMENTAL ANTITHESIS OF PHILOSOPHY. 35
Digitized by Googk
36 OF IDEAS IN GENERAL.
verted into some other form. But the truth is, that our
sensations, of themselves, without some act of the mind,
such as involves what we have termed an Idea, have no
form. We cannot see one object without the idea o f
space; we cannot see two without the idea of resem­
blance or difference; and space and difference are not
sensations. Thus, if we are to employ the metaphor o f
Matter and Form, which is implied in the expression to
which I have referred, our sensations, from their first
reception, have their Form not changed, but given by
our Ideas. Without the relations of thought which we
here term Ideas, the sensations are matter without form.
. Matter without form cannot exist: and in like manner
sensations cannot become perceptions of objects, without
some formative power of the mind. By the very act of
being received as perceptions, they have a formative
power exercised upon them, the operation of which
might be expressed, by speaking of them, not as trans­
formed, but simply as form ed;—as invested with form,
instead of being the mere formless material of percep­
tion. The word inform, according to its Latin etymo­
logy, at first implied this process by which matter is
invested with form. Thus Virgil* speaks of the thunder­
bolt as infoi'med by the hands of Brontes, and Steropes,
and Pyracmon. And Dryden introduces the word in
another place:—
Let others better mould the running mass
Of metals, or inform the breathing brass.
Even in this use of the word, the form is something
superior to the brute manner, and gives it a new signi­
ficance and purpose. And hence the term is again used
• Fernim exercebant vasto Cyclopes in Antro
Brontcsque Steropesque et nudus membra Pyracmon ;
His informatum manibus, jam parte polita
Fulraen erat.—dEn. viii. 424.
Digitized by Googk
to denote the effect produced by an intelligent principle
of a still higher kind :—
.......................... He informed
This ill-shaped body with a daring soul.
And finally even the soul itself, in its original condition,
is looked upon as matter, when viewed with reference
to education and knowledge, by which it is afterwards
moulded; and hence these are, in our language, termed
information. If we confine ourselves to the first of
these three uses of the term, we may correct the erro­
neous opinion of which we have just been speaking,
and retain the metaphor by which it is expressed, by
saying, that ideas are not transfoi'med, but informed
sensations.
Sect. 9.—Man the Interpreter of Nature.
There is another image by which writers have repre­
sented the acts of thought through which knowledge is
obtained from the observation of the external world.
Nature is the Book, and Man is the Interpi'eter. The
facts of the external world are marks, in which man
discovers a meaning, and so reads them. Man is the
Interpreter of Nature, and Science is the right Interpre­
tation. And this image also is, in many respects, instruc­
tive. It exhibits to us the necessity of both elements;—
the marks which man has to look at, and the knowledge
of the alphabet and language which he must possess and
apply before he can find any meaning in what he sees.
Moreover this image presents to us, as the ideal element,
an activity of the mind of that very kind which we wish
to point out. Indeed the illustration is rather an
example than a comparison of the composition of our
knowledge. The letters and symbols which are pre­
sented to the Interpreter are really objects of sensation :
the notion of letters as signs of words, the notion of
FUNDAMENTAL ANTITHESIS OF PHILOSOPHY. 3 7
Digitized by Google
38 OF IDEAS IX GENERAL.
connexions among words by which they have meaning,
really are among our Ideas;—Signs and Meaning are
Ideas, supplied by the mind, and added to all that sensa­
tion can disclose in any collection of visible marks. The
Sciences are not figuratively, but really, Interpretations
of Nature. But this image, whether taken as example or
comparison, may serve to show both the opposite charac­
ter of the two elements of knowledge, and their neces­
sary combination, in order that there may be knowledge.
This illustration may also serve to explain another
point in the conditions of human knowledge which we
shall have to notice:—namely, the very different degrees
in ;hich, in different cases, we are conscious of the
mental act by which our sensations are converted into
knowledge. For the same difference occurs in reading
an inscription. If the inscription were entire and plain,
in a language with which we were familiar, we should
be unconscious of any mental act in reading it. We
should seem to collect its meaning by the sight alone.
But if we had to decipher an ancient inscription, of
which only imperfect marks remained, with a few entire
letters among them, we should probably make several
suppositions as to the mode of reading it, before we
found any mode which was quite successful; and thus,
our guesses, being separate from the observed facts, and
at first not fully in agreement with them, we should be
clearly aware that the conjectured meaning, on the one
hand, and the observed marks on the other, were dis­
tinct things, though these two things would become
united as elements of one act of knowledge when we
had hit upon the right conjecture.
Sect. 10.— The Fundamental Antithesis inseparable.
The illustration just referred to, as well as other
ways of considering the subject, may help us to get over
Digitized by Google
a difficulty which at first sight appears perplexing. We
have spoken of the common opposition of Theory and
Fact as important, and as involving what we have called
the Fundamental Antithesis of Philosophy. But after
all, it may be asked. Is this distinction of Theory and
Fact really tenable? Is it not often difficult to say
whether a special part of our knowledge is a Fact or
a Theory? Is it a Fact or a Theory that the stars
revolve round the pole? Is it a Fact or a Theory that
the earth is a globe revolving on its axis? Is it a Fact
or a Theory that the earth travels in an ellipse round
the sun? Is it a Fact or a Theory that the sun attracts
the earth? Is it a Fact or a Theory that the loads^pne
attracts the needle? In all these cases, probably some
persons would answer one way, and some persons the
other. There are many persons by whom the doctrine
of the globular form of the earth, the doctrine of the
earth’s elliptical orbit, the doctrine of the sun’s attrac­
tion on the earth, would be called , even if they
allowed them to be true theories. But yet if each of
these propositions be true, is it not afact? And even
with regard to the simpler facts, as the motion of the
stars round the pole, although this may be a Fact to one
who has watched and measured the motions of the stars,
one who has not done this, and who has only carelessly
looked at these stars from time to time, may naturally
speak of the circles which the astronomer makes them
describe as Theories. It would seem, then, that we
cannot in such cases expect general assent, if we say,
This is a Fact and not a T
h
, or, This is
and not a Fact. And the same is true in a vast range
of cases. It would seem, therefore, that we cannot rest
any reasoning upon this distinction of Theory and Fact;
and we cannot avoid asking whether there is any real
distinction in this antithesis, and if so. what it is.
FUNDAMENTAL ANTITHESIS OF PHILOSOPHY. 3 9
Digitized by Googk
40 OF IDEAS IN GENERAL.
To this I reply: the distinction between Theory
(that is, true Theory) and Fact, is this: that in Theory
the Ideas are considered as distinct from the Facts: in
Facts, though Ideas may be involved, they are not, in
our apprehension, separated from the sensations. In a
Fact, the Ideas are applied so readily and familiarly, and
incorporated with the sensations so entirely, that we
do not see t
h
e
m,
we see through them. A person who
carefully notes the motion of a star all night, sees the
circle which it describes, as he sees the star, though
the circle is, in fact, a result of his own Ideas. A
person who has in his mind the measures of different
lines and countries on the earth’s surface, and who can
put them together into one conception, finds that they
can make no figure but a globular one: to him, the
earth’s globular form is a'Fact, as much as the square
form of his chamber. A person to whom the grounds
of believing the earth to travel round the sun are as
familiar as the grounds for believing the movements
of the mail-coaches in this country, looks upon the
former event as a Fact, just as he looks upon the latter
events as Facts. And a person who, knowing the Fact
of the earth’s annual motion, refers it distinctly to its
mechanical cause, conceives the sun’s attraction as a
Fact, just as he conceives as a Fact, the action of the
wind which turns the sails of a mill. He cannot see
the force in either case; he supplies it out of his own
Ideas. And thus, a true Theory is a Fact; a Fact is
a familiar Theory. That which is a Fact under one
aspect, is a Theory under another. The most recondite
Theories when firmly established are Facts: the sim­
plest Facts involve something of the nature of Theory.
Theory and Fact correspond, in a certain degree, with
Ideas and Sensations, as to the nature of their opposi­
tion. But the Facts are Facts, so far as the Ideas have
Digitized by Google
been combined with the Sensations and absorbed in
them: the Theories are Theories, so far as the Ideas
are kept distinct from the Sensations, and so far as it is
considered still a question whether those can be made
to agree with these.
We may, as I have said, illustrate this matter by
considering man as interpreting the phenomena which
he sees. He often interprets without being aware that
he does so. Thus when we see the needle move towards
the magnet, we assert that the magnet exercises an
attractive force on the needle. But it is only by an
interpretative act of our own minds that we ascribe
this motion to attraction. That, in this case, a force is
exerted—something of the nature of the pull which we
could apply by our own volition—is our interpretation
of the phenomena; although we may be conscious of the
act of interpretation, and may then regard the attrac­
tion as a Fact.
Nor is it in such cases only that we interpret phe­
nomena in our own way, without being conscious of
what we do. We see a tree at a distance, and judge it
to be a chestnut or a lime; yet this is only an inference
from the colour or form of the mass according to pre­
conceived classifications of our own. Our lives are full
of such unconscious interpretations. The farmer recog­
nizes a good or a bad soil; the artist a picture of a
favourite master; the geologist a rock of a known local­
ity, as we recognize the faces and voices of our friends;
that is, by judgments formed on what we see and hear;
but judgments in which we do not analyze the steps, or
distinguish the inference from the appearance. And in
these mixtures of observation and inference, we speak of
the judgment thus formed, as a Fact directly observed.
Even in the case in which our perceptions appear to
be most direct, and least to involve any interpretations
FUNDAMENTAL ANTITHESIS OF PHILOSOPHY. 41
Digitized by Googk
42 OF IDEAS IN GENERAL.
of our own,—in the simple process of seeing,—who does
not know how much we, by an act of the mind, add to
that which our senses receive ? Does any one fancy that
he sees a solid cube ? It is easy to show that the solid­
ity of the figure, the relative position of its faces and
edges to each other, are inferences of the spectator; no
more conveyed to his conviction by the eye alone, than
they would be if he were looking at a painted represen­
tation of a cube. The scene of nature is a picture w ith­
out depth of substance, no less than the scene of a r t;
and in the one case as in the other, it is the mind which,
by an act of its own, discovers that colour and shape
denote distance and solidity. Most men are unconscious
of this perpetual habit of reading the language of the
external world, and translating as they read. The
draughtsman, indeed, is compelled, for bis purposes, to
return back in thought from the solid bodies which he
has inferred, to the shapes of surface which he really
sees. He knows that there is a mask of theory over the
whole face of nature, if it be theory to infer more than
we see. But other men, unaware of this masquerade,
hold it to be a fact that they see cubes and spheres, spa­
cious apartments and winding avenues. And these things
are facts to them, because they are unconscious of the
mental operation by which they have penetrated nature’s
disguise.
And thus, we still have an intelligible distinction of
Fact and Theory, if we consider Theory as a conscious, and
Fact as an unconscious inference, from the phenomena
which are presented to our senses.
But still, Theory and Fact, Inference and Perception,
Reasoning and Observation, are antitheses in none of
which can we separate the two members by any fixed
and definite line.
Even the simplest terms by which the antithesis is
Digitized by Googk
FUNDAMENTAL ANTITHESIS OF PHILOSOPHY. 4 3
expressed cannot be separated. Ideas and Sensations,
Thoughts and Things, Subject and Object, cannot in any
case be applied absolutely and exclusively. Our Sen­
sations require Ideas to bind them together, namely,
Ideas of space, time, number, and the like. If not so
bound together, Sensations do not give us any appre­
hension of Things or Objects. All Things, all Objects,
must exist in space and in time—must be one or many.
Now space, time, number, are not Sensations or Things.
They are something different from, and opposed to Sen­
sations and Things. We have termed them Ideas. It
may be said they are Relations of Things, or of Sensa­
tions. But granting this form of expression, still a
Relation is not a Thing or a Sensation; and therefore
we must still have another and opposite element, along
with our Sensations. And yet, though we have thus
these two elements in every act of perception, we cannot
designate any portion of the act as absolutely and exclu­
sively belonging to one of the elements. Perception
involves Sensation, along with Ideas of time, space, and
the like; or, if any one prefers the expression, we may
say, Perception involves Sensations along with the ap­
prehension of Relations. Perception is Sensation, along
with such Ideas as make Sensation into an apprehension
of Things or Objects.
And as Perception of Objects implies Ideas,—as Ob­
servation implies Reasoning;—so, on the other hand,
Ideas cannot exist where Sensation has not been; Rea­
soning cannot go on when there has not been previous
Observation. This is evident from the necessary order
of developement of the human faculties. Sensation
necessarily exists from the first moments of our exist­
ence, and is constantly at work. Observation begins
before we can suppose the existence of any Reasoning
which is not involved in Observation. Hence, at what­
Digitized by Google
44 OF IDEAS IN GENERAL.
ever period we consider our Ideas, we must consider
them as having been already engaged in connecting our
Sensations, and as having been'modified by this em ploy­
ment. By being so employed, our Ideas are unfolded
and defined ; and such developement and definition can­
not be separated from the Ideas themselves. We cannot
conceive space, without boundaries or forms: now Forms
involve Sensations. We cannot conceive time, without
events which mark the course of time; but events involve
Sensations. We cannot conceive number, without con­
ceiving things which are numbered; and Things imply
sensations. And the forms, things, events, which are
thus implied in our Ideas, having been the objects of
Sensation constantly in every part of our life, have
modified, unfolded, and fixed our Ideas, to an extent
which we cannot estimate, but which we must suppose
to be essential to the processes which at present go on
in our minds. We cannot say that Objects create Ideas;
for to perceive Objects we must already have Ideas.
But we may say, that Objects and the constant Perception
of Objects have so far modified our Ideas, that we cannot,
even in thought, separate our Ideas from the perception
of Objects.
We cannot say of any Ideas, as of the Idea of space,
or time, or number, that they are absolutely and exclu­
sively Ideas. We cannot conceive what space, or time,
or number, would be in our minds, if we had never per­
ceived any Thing or Things in space or time. We can­
not conceive ourselves in such a condition as never to have
perceived any Thing or Things in space or time. But, on
the other hand, just as little can we conceive ourselves
becoming acquainted with space and time or numbers
as objects of Sensation. We cannot reason without
having the operations of our minds affected by previous
Sensations; but we cannot conceive Reasoning to be
Digitized by G oogk
FUNDAMENTAL ANTITHESIS OF PHILOSOPHY. 45
merely a series of Sensations. In order to be used in
Reasoning, Sensation must become Observation; and, as
we have seen, Observation already involves Reasoning.
In order to be connected by our Ideas, Sensations must
be Things or Objects, and Things or Objects already in­
clude Ideas. And thus, none of the terms by which the
fundamental antithesis is expressed can be absolutely
and exclusively applied.
I will make a remark suggested by the views which
have thus been presented. Since, as we have just seen,
none of the terms which express the fundamental anti­
thesis can be applied absolutely and exclusively, the
absolute application of the antithesis in any particular
case can never be a conclusive or immoveable principle.
This remark is the more necessary to be borne in mind, as
the terms of this antithesis are often used in a vehement
and peremptory manner. Thus we are often told that
such a thing is a Fact; a Fact and not a Theory, with all
the emphasis which, in speaking or writing, tone or italics
or capitals can give. We see from what has been said,
that when this is urged, before we can estimate the
truth, or the value of the assertion, we must ask^ to
whom is it a Fact? what habits of thought, what pre­
vious information, what Ideas does it imply, to conceive
the Fact as a Fact? Does not the apprehension of the
Fact imply assumptions which may with equal justice
be called Theory, and which are perhaps false Theory ?
in which case, the Fact is no Fact. Did not the an­
cients assert it as a Fact, that the earth stood still,
and the stars moved? and can any Fact have stronger
apparent evidence to justify persons in asserting it em­
phatically than this had ?
These remarks are by no means urged in order to
shew that no Fact can be certainly known to be true;
but only, to shew that no Fact can be certainly shown
Digitized by Googk
46 OF IDEAS IN GENERAD.
to be a Fact, merely by calling it a Fact, however
emphatically. There is by no means any ground of
general skepticism with regard to truth, involved in
the doctrine of the necessary combination of two ele­
ments in all our knowledge. On the contrary, Ideas
are requisite to the essence, and Things to the reality
of our knowledge in every case. The proportions of
Geometry and Arithmetic are examples of knowledge
respecting our Ideas of space and number, with regard
to which there is no room for doubt. The doctrines of
Astronomy are examples of truths not less certain
respecting the Facts of the external world.
Sect. 11.—Successive
In the preceding pages we have been led to the doctrine,
that though, in the Antithesis of Theory and Fact, there
is involved an essential opposition; namely the opposition
of the thoughts within us and the phenomena without
us; yet that we cannot distinguish and define the mem­
bers of this antithesis separately. Theories become
Facts, by becoming certain and familiar: and thus, as
our knowledge becomes more sure and more extensive,
we are constantly transferring to the class of facts,
opinions which were at first regarded as theories.
Now we have further to remark, that in the progress
of human knowledge respecting any branch of specula­
tion, there may be several such steps in succession, each
depending upon and including the preceding. The
theoretical views which one generation of discoverers
establishes, become the facts from which the next gene­
ration advances to new theories. As men rise from the
particular to the general, so, in the same manner, they
rise from what is general to what is more general. Each
induction supplies the materials of fresh inductions;
each generalization, with all that it embraces in its circle,
Digitized by Googk
may be found to be but one of many circles, compre­
hended within the circuit of some wider generalization.
This remark has already been made, and illustrated,
in the History of the Inductive Sciences'’; and, in truth,
the whole of the history of science is full of suggestions
and exemplifications of this course of things. It may be
convenient, however, to select a few instances which may
further explain and confirm this view of the progress of
scientific knowledge.
The most conspicuous instance of this succession is
to be found in that science which has been progressive
from the beginning of the world to our own times, and
which exhibits by far the richest collection of successive
discoveries: I mean Astronomy. It is easy to see that
each of these successive discoveries depended on those
antecedently made, and that in each, the truths which
were the highest point of the knowledge of one age
were the fundamental basis of the efforts of the age
which came next. Thus we find, in the days of Greek
discovery, Hipparchus and Ptolemy combining and ex­
plaining the particular facts of the motion of the sun,
moon, and planets, by means of the theory of epicycles
and eccentrics;—a highly important step, which gave
an intelligible connexion and rule to the motions of each
of these luminaries. When these cycles and epicycles,
thus truly representing the apparent motions of the
heavenly bodies, had accumulated to an inconvenient
amount, by the discovery of many inequalities in the
observed motions, Copernicus showed that their effects
might all be more simply included, by making the suu
the center of motion of the planets, instead of the earth.
But in this new view, he still retained the epicycles and
eccentrics which governed the motion of each body.
Tycho Brahe’s observations, and Kepler’s calculations,
* Hist. Inductive Sciences, B. vn c. ii. Sect. 5.
FUNDAMENTAL ANTITHESIS OF PHILOSOPHY. 4 7
Digitized by Googk
4 8 OF IDEAS IN GENERAL.
showed that, besides the vast number of facts w hich the
epicyclical theory could account for, there w ere some
which it would not exactly include, and Kepler was led
to the persuasion that the planets move in ellipses.
But this view of motion was at first conceived by Kepler
as a modification of the conception of epicycles. On one
occasion he blames himself for not sooner seeing that
such a modification was possible. “ What an absurdity
on my part P* he cries*; “ as if libration in the diameter
of the epicycle might not come to the same thing as
motion in the ellipse.” But again; Kepler’s o f the
elliptical motion of the planets were established; and
these laws immediately became the facts on which the
mathematicians had to found their mechanical theories.
From these facts, Newton, as we have related, proved
that the central force of the sun retains the planets in
their orbits, according to the law of the inverse square
of the distance. The same law was shown to prevail in
the gravitation of the earth. It was shown, too, by in­
duction from the motions of Jupiter and Saturn, that
the planets attract each other; by calculations from the
figure of the earth, that the parts of the earth attract
each other; and, by considering the course of the tides,
that the sun and moon attract the waters of the ocean.
And all these curious discoveries being established as
facts, the subject was ready for another step of gene­
ralization. By an unparalleled rapidity in the progress
of discovery in this case, not only were all the inductions
which we have first mentioned made by one individual,
but the new advance, the higher flight, the closing vic­
tory, fell to the lot of the same extraordinary person.
The attraction of the sun upon the planets, of the
moon upon the earth, of the planets on each other, of the
parts of the earth on themselves, of the sun and moon
* Hist. Inductive Sciences, B. v. c. iv. Sect. 3.
Digitized by Googk
upon the ocean;—all these truths, each of itself a great
discovery, were included by Newton in the higher gene­
ralization, of the universal gravitation of matter, by
which each particle is drawn to each other according to
the law of the inverse square: and thus this long ad­
vance from discovery to discovery, from truths to truths,
each justly admired when new, and then rightly used as
old, was closed in a worthy and consistent manner, by
a truth which is the most worthy admiration, because it
includes all the researches of preceding ages of Astro­
nomy.
We may take another example of a succession of this
kind from the history of a science, which, though it has
made wonderful advances, has not yet reached its goal,
as physical astronomy appears to have done, but seems to
have before it a long prospect of future progress. I now
refer to Chemistry, in which I shall try to point out how
the preceding discoveries afforded the materials of the
succeeding; although this subordination and connexion
is, in this case, less familiar to men’s minds than in Astro­
nomy, and is, perhaps, more difficult to present in a clear
and definite shape. Sylvius saw, in the facts which
occur, when an acid and an alkali are brought together,
the evidence that they neutralize each other. But cases
of neutralization, and acidification, and many other ef­
fects of mixture of the ingredients of bodies, being thus
viewed as facts, had an aspect of unity and law given
them by Geoffroy and Bergman*, who introduced the con­
ception of the Chemical Affinity or Elective Attraction,
by which certain elements select other elements, as if by
preference. That combustion, whether a chemical union
or a chemical separation of ingredients, is of the same
nature with acidification, was the doctrine of Beecher
• H
itt,Inductive Sciences, B. xiv. c. in.
VOL. I. W. P. E
FUNDAMENTAL ANTITHESIS OF PHILOSOPHY. 4i)
Digitized by Googk
50 OF IDEAS IN GENERAL.
and Stahl, and was soon established as a truth which
must form a part of every succeeding physical theory.
That the rules of affinity and chemical composition may
include gaseous elements, was established by Black and
Cavendish. And all these truths, thus brought to light
by chemical discoverers,—affinity, the identity of acidifi­
cation and combustion, the importance of gaseous ele­
ments,—along with all the facts respecting the weight
of ingredients and compounds which the balance dis­
closed,— were taken up, connected, and included as
particulars in the oxygen theory of Lavoisier. Again,
the results of this theory, and the quantity of the several
ingredients which entered into each compound—(such
results, for the most part, being now no longer mere
theoretical speculations, but recognized facts)— were the
particulars from which Dalton derived that wide law of
chemical combination which we term the Atomic Theoi'y.
And this law, soon generally accepted among chemists,
is already in its turn become one of the facts included
in Faraday’s Theory of the identity of Chemical Affinity
and Electric Attraction.
It is unnecessary to give further exemplifications of
this constant ascent from one step to a higher;—this
perpetual conversion of true theories into the materials
of other and wider theories. It will hereafter be our
business to exhibit, in a more full and formal manner,
the mode in which this principle determines the whole
scheme and structure of all the most exact sciences.
And thus, beginning with the facts of sense, we gradually
climb to the highest forms of human knowledge, and
obtain from experience and observation a vast collection
of the most wide and elevated truths.
There are, however, truths of a very different kind, to
which we must turn our attention, in order to pursue our
Digitized by Googk
FUNDAMENTAL ANTITHESIS OF PHILOSOPHY. 51
researches respecting the nature and grounds of our
knowledge. But before we do this, we must notice one
more feature in that progress of science which we have
already in part described.
Chapter III.
O F T E C H N I C A L T E R M S .
1. It has already been stated that we gather knowledge
from the external world, when we are able to apply, to
the facts which we observe, some ideal conception, which
gives unity and connexion to multiplied and separate
perceptions. We have also shown that our conceptions,
thus verified by facts, may themselves be united and con­
nected by a new bond of the same nature; and that man
may thus have to pursue his way from truth to truth
through a long progression of discoveries, each resting
on the preceding, and rising above it.
Each of these steps, in succession, is recorded, fixed,
and made available, by some peculiar form of words;
and such words, thus rendered precise in their meaning,
and appropriated to the service of science, we may call
Technical Terms. It is in a great measure by inventing
such Terms that men not only best express the discoveries
they have made, but also enable their followers to become
so familiar with these discoveries, and to possess them
so thoroughly, that they can readily use them in ad­
vancing to ulterior generalizations.
Most of our ideal conceptions are described by exact
and constant words or phrases, such as those of which we
here speak. We have already had occasion to employ
many of these. Thus we have had instances of technical
Terms expressing geometrical conceptions, as Ellipsis,
E 2
Digitized by Google
52 OF IDEAS IN GENERAL.
Radius Vector, Axis, Plane, the Proportion o f the In­
verse Square, and the like. Other Terms have described
mechanical conceptions, as Accelerating F orce and
Attraction. Again, chemistry exhibits (as do all sciences)
a series of Terms which mark the steps of ou r progress.
The views of the first real founders of the science are
recorded by the Terms which are still in use, NetUral
Salts, Affinity, and the like. The establishment o f Dal­
ton’s theory has produced the use of the word A tom in
a peculiar sense, or of some other word, as Proportion,
in a sense equally technical. And Mr. Faraday has
found it necessary, in order to expound his electro-chemi­
cal theory, to introduce such terms as Anode and Cathode,
Anion and Cathion.
2. I need not adduce any further examples, for my
object at present is only to point out the use and influence
of such language: its rules and principles I shall here­
after try, in some measure, to fix. But what we have
here to remark is, the extraordinary degree in which the
progress of science is facilitated, by thus investing each
new discovery with a compendious and steady form of
expression. These terms soon become part of the cur­
rent language of all who take an interest in speculation.
However strange they may sound at first, they soon grow
familiar in our ears, and are used without any effort, or
any recollection of the difficulty they once involved. They
become as common as the phrases which express our
most frequent feelings and interests, while yet they have
incomparably more precision than belongs to any terms
which express feelings; and they carry with them, in
their import, the results of deep and laborious trains of
research. They convey the mental treasures of one
period to the generations that follow; and laden with
this, their precious freight, they sail safely across gulfs
of time in which empires have suffered shipwreck, and
Digitized by Googk
OF TECHNICAL TERMS. 53
the languages of common life have sunk into oblivion.
We have still in constant circulation among us the Terms
which belong to the geometry, the astronomy, the
zoology, the medicine of the Greeks, and the algebra
and chemistry of the Arabians. And we can in an in­
stant, by means of a few words, call to our own recollec­
tion, or convey to the apprehension of another person,
phenomena and relations of phenomena in optics, mine­
ralogy, chemistry, which are so complex and abstruse,
that it might seem to require the utmost subtlety of the
human mind to grasp them, even if that were made the
sole object of its efforts. By this remarkable effect of
Technical Language, we have the results of all the
labours of past times not only always accessible, but so
prepared that we may (provided we are careful in the
use of our instrument) employ what is really useful and
efficacious for the purpose of further success, without
being in any way impeded or perplexed by the length
and weight of the chain of past connexions which we
drag along with us.
By such means,—by the use ofthe Inductive Process,
and by the aid of Technical Terms,—man has been con­
stantly advancing in the path of scientific truth. In a
succeeding part of this work we shall endeavour to trace
the general rules of this advance, and to lay down the
mavims by which it may be most successfully guided
and forwarded. But in order that we may do this to
the best advantage, we must pursue still further the
analysis of knowledge into its elements; and this will be
our employment in the first part of the work.
Digitized by Googk
54
Chapter IV.
O F N E C E S S A R Y T R U T H S .
1. Every advance in human knowledge consists, as
we have seen, in adapting new ideal conceptions to ascer­
tained facts, and thus in superinducing the Form upon
the Matter, the active upon the passive processes of our
minds. Every such step introduces into our knowledge
an additional portion of the ideal element, and o f those
relations which flow from the nature of Ideas. It is,
therefore, important for our purpose to examine more
closely this element, and to learn what the relations are
which may thus come to form part of our knowledge.
An inquiry into those Ideas which form the foundations
of our sciences;—into the reality, independence, extent,
and principal heads of the knowledge which we thus ac­
quire;—is a task on which we must now enter, and
which will employ us for several ofthe succeeding Books.
In this inquiry our object will be to pass in review all
the most important Fundamental Ideas which our
sciences involve; and to prove more distinctly in refer­
ence to each, what we have already asserted with regard
to all, that there are everywhere involved in our know­
ledge acts of the mind as well as impressions of sense;
and that our knowledge derives, from these acts, a gene­
rality, certainty, and evidence which the senses could in
no degree have supplied. But before I proceed to do
this in particular cases, I will give some account of the
argument in its general form.
We have already considered the separation of our
knowledge into its two elements,—Impressions of Sense
and Ideas,—as evidently indicated by this; that all know­
ledge possesses characters which neither of these ele­
ments alone could bestow. Without our ideas, our sen­
sations could have no connexion; without external
Digitized by Google
OF NECESSARY TRUTHS. 55
impressions, our ideas would have no reality; and thus
both ingredients of our knowledge must exist.
2. There is another mode in which the distinction of
the two elements of knowledge appears, as I have already
said: (C. i. Sect. 2.) namely in the distinction of neces­
sary and contingent or experiential truths. For of these
two classes of truths, the difference arises from this;—
that the one class derives its nature from the one, and
the other from the other, of the two elements of know­
ledge. I have already stated briefly the difference of
these two kinds of truths:—namely, that the former are
truths which, we see, must be true:—the latter are true,
but so far as we can see, might be otherwise. The former
are true necessarily and universally: the latter are learnt
from experience and limited by experience. Now with
regard to the former kind of truths, I wish to show that
the universality and necessity which distinguish them
can by no means be derived from experience; that these
characters do in reality flow from the ideas which these
truths involve; and that when the necessity of the truth
is exhibited in the way of logical demonstration, it is
found to depend upon certain fundamental principles,
(Definitions and Axioms,) which may thus be considered
as expressing, in some measure, the essential characters
of our ideas. These fundamental principles I shall after­
wards proceed to discuss and to exhibit in each of the
principal departments of science.
I shall begin by considering Necessary Truths more
fully than I have yet done. As I have already said,
necessary truths are those in which we not only learn
that the proposition is true, but see that it must be true ;
in which the negation of the truth is not only false, but
impossible; in which we cannot, even by an effort of
imagination, or in a supposition, conceive the reverse of
that which is asserted.
Digitized by Google
56 OF IDEAS IN GENERAL.
3. That there are sucli truths cannot be doubted.
We may take, for example, all relations of number.
Three and Two added together make Five. We cannot
conceive it to be otherwise. We cannot, by any freak
of thought, imagine Three and Two to make Seven.
It may be said that this assertion merely expresses
what we mean by our words; that it is a matter of defi­
nition ; that the proposition is an identical one.
But this is by no means so. The definition of Five
is not Three and Two, but Four and One. How does it
appear that Three and Two is the same number as Four
and One ? It is evident that it is so ; but is it evi­
dent ?—not because the proposition is identical; for if
that were the reason, all numerical propositions must be
evident for the same reason. If it be a matter of defi­
nition that 3 and 2 make 5, it must be a matter of defi­
nition that 39 and 27 make 66. But who will say that
the definition of 66 is 39 and 27? Yet the magnitude
of the numbers can make no difference in the ground of
the truth. IIow do we know that the product of 13 and
17 is 4 less than the product of 15 and 15? We see
that it is so, if we perform certain operations by the rules
of arithmetic; but how do we know the truth of the
rules of arithmetic? If we divide 123375 by 987 ac­
cording to the process taught us at school, how are we
assured that the result is correct, and that the number
125 thus obtained is really the number of times one
number is contained in the other ?
The correctness of the rule, it may be replied, can be
rigorously demonstrated. It can be shewn that the pro­
cess must inevitably give the true quotient.
Certainly this can be shown to be the case. And
precisely because it can be shown that the result must be
true, we have here an example of a necessary truth; and
this truth, it appears, is not therefore necessary because it
Digitized by G oogk
OF NECESSARY TRUTHS. 57
is itself evidently identical, however it may be possible to
prove it by reducing it to evidently identical propositions.
And the same is the case with all other numerical propo­
sitions ; for, as we have said, the nature of all of them is
the same.
Here, then, we have instances of truths which are
not only true, but demonstrably and necessarily true.
Now such truths are, in this respect at least, altogether
different from truths, which, however certain they may
be, are learnt to be so only by the evidence of observa­
tion, interpreted, as observation must be interpreted, by
our own mental faculties. There is no difficulty in find­
ing examples of these merely observed truths. We find
that sugar dissolves in water, and forms a transparent
fluid, but no one will say that we can see any reason
beforehand why the result musbe so. We
animals which chew the cud have also the divided hoof;
but could any one have predicted that this would be
universally the case \ or supposing the truth of the rule
to be known, can any one say that he cannot conceive
the facts as occurring otherwise ? Water expands when
it crystallizes, some other substances contract in the same
circumstances; but can any one know that this will be
so otherwise than by observation ? We have here propo­
sitions rigorously true, (we will assume,) but can any
one say they are necessarily true ? These, and the great
mass of the doctrines established by induction, are actual,
but so far as we can see, accidental laws ; results deter­
mined by some unknown selection, not demonstrable
consequences of the essence of things, inevitable and
perceived to be inevitable. According to the phrase­
ology which has been frequently used by philosophical
writers, they are contingent, not necessary truths.
It is requisite to insist upon this opposition, because
no insight can be obtained into the true nature of
Digitized by G oogle
58 OF IDEAS IN GENERAL.
knowledge, and the mode of arriving at it, by any one
who does not clearly appreciate the distinction. The
separation of truths which are learnt by observation, and
truths which can be seen to be true by a pure act of
thought, is one of the first and most essential steps in
our examination of the nature of truth, and the mode of
its discovery. If any one does not clearly comprehend
this distinction of necessary and contingent truths, he
will not be able to go along with us in our researches
into the foundations of human knowledge; nor, indeed,
to pursue with success any speculation on the subject.
But, in fact, this distinction is one that can hardly fail
to be at once understood. It is insisted upon by almost
all the best modern, as well as ancient, metaphysicians*,
as of primary importance. And if any person does not
fully apprehend, at first, the different kinds of truth thus
pointed out, let him study, to some extent, those sciences
which have necessary truth for their subject, as geometry,
or the properties of numbers, so as to obtain a familiar
acquaintance with such truth; and he will then hardly
fail to see how different the evidence of the propositions
which occur in these sciences, is from the evidence of
the facts which are merely learnt from experience.
That the year goes through its course in 365 days, can
only be known by observation of the sun or stars: that
365 days is 52 weeks and a day, it requires no expe­
rience, but only a little thought to perceive. That bees
build their cells in the form of hexagons, we cannot
know without looking at them; that regular hexagons
may be arranged so as to fill space, may be proved with
the utmost rigour, even if there were not in existence
such a thing as a material hexagon.
4. As I have already said, one mode in which we
may express the difference of necessary truths and truths
• Aristotle, I)r. Wliately, Dugald Stewart. &e.
Digitized by G oogle
OF NECE8SARY TRUTHS. 59
of experience, is, that necessary truths are those of which
we cannot distinctly conceive the contrary. We can
very readily conceive the contrary of experiential truths.
We can conceive the stars moving about the pole or
across the sky in any kind of curves with any velocities;
we can conceive the moon always appearing during the
whole month as a luminous disk, as she might do if her
light were inherent and not borrowed. But we cannot
conceive one of the parallelograms on the same base and
between the same parallels larger than the other; for
we find that, if we attempt to do this, when we separate
the parallelograms into parts, we have to conceive one
triangle larger than another, both having all their parts
equal; which we cannot conceive at all, if we conceive
the triangles distinctly. We make this impossibility
more clear by conceiving the triangles to be placed so
that two sides of the one coincide with two sides of the
other; and it is then seen, that in order to conceive the
triangles unequal, we must conceive the two bases which
have the same extremities both ways, to be different
lines, though both straight lines. This it is impossible
to conceive: we assent to the impossibility as an axiom,
when it is expressed by saying, that two straight lines
cannot inclose a space; and thus we cannot distinctly
conceive the contrary of the proposition just mentioned
respecting parallelograms.
But it is necessary, in applying this distinction, to
bear in mind the terms of it;—that we cannot distinctly
conceive the contrary of a necessary truth. For in a
certain loose,oihdistinct way, persons conceive the con­
trary of necessary geometrical truths, when they erro­
neously conceive false propositions to be true. Thus,
Hobbes erroneously held that he had discovered a means
of geometrically doubling the cube, as it is called, that
is, finding two mean proportionals between two given
Digitized by G oogk
60 OF IDEAS IN GENERAL.
lines; a problem which cannot be solved by plane
geometry. Hobbes not only proposed a construction for
this purpose, but obstinately maintained that it was
right, when it had been proved to be wrong. B ut then,
the discussion showed how indistinct the geometrical
conceptions of Hobbes were; for when his critics had
proved that one of the lines in his diagram would not
meet the other in the point which his reasoning1 sup­
posed, but in another point near to it ; he maintained, in
reply, that one of these points was large enough to
include the other, so that they might be considered as
the same point. Such a mode of conceiving the oppo­
site of a geometrical truth, forms no exception to the
assertion, that this opposite cannot be distinctly con­
ceived.
In like manner, the indistinct conceptions of children
and of rude savages do not invalidate the distinction of
necessary and experiential truths. Children and savages
make mistakes even with regard to numbers; and might
easily happen to assert that 27 and 38 are equal to 63
or 64. But such mistakes cannot make arithmetical
truths cease to be necessary truths. When any person
conceives these numbers and their addition distinctly, by
resolving them into parts, or in any other way, he sees
that their sum is necessarily 65. If, on the ground of
the possibility of children and savages conceiving some­
thing different, it be held that this is not a necessary
truth, it must be held on the same ground, that it is not
a necessary truth that 7 and 4 are equal to 11; for
children and savages might be found so unfamiliar with
numbers as not to reject the assertion that 7 and 4 are
10, or even that 4 and 3 are 6, or 8. But I suppose
that no persons would on such grounds hold that these
arithmetical truths arc truths known only by experi­
ence,
Digitized by G oogk
OF NECESSARY TRUTII8. G1
5. I have taken examples of necessary truths from
the properties of number and space; but such truths exist
no less in other subjects, although the discipline of
thought which is requisite to perceive them distinctly,
may not be so usual among men with regard to the
sciences of mechanics and hydrostatics, as it is with
regard to the sciences of geometry and arithmetic. Yet
every one may perceive that there are such truths in
mechanics. If I press the table with my hand, the
table presses my hand with an equal force: here is a
self-evident and necessary truth. In any machine,
constructed in whatever manner to increase the force
which I can exert, it is certain that what I gain in force
I must lose in the velocity which I communicate. This
is not a contingent truth, borrowed from and limited by
observation; for a man of sound mechanical views applies
it with like confidence, however novel be the construc­
tion of the machine. When I come to speak of the ideas
which are involved in our mechanical knowledge, I
may, perhaps, be able to bring more clearly into view
the necessary truth of general propositions on such
subjects. That reaction is equal and opposite to action,
is as necessarily true as that two straight lines cannot
inclose a space; it is as impossible theoretically to make
a perpetual motion by mere mechanism as to make the
diagonal of a square commensurable with the side.
6. Necessary truths must be universal truths. If any
property belong to a right-angled triangle , it
must belong to all right-angled triangles. And it shall
be proved in the following Chapter, that truths possess­
ing these two characters, of Necessity and Universality,
cannot possibly be the mere results of experience.
Digitized by G oogk
G2
C h a p t e r V.
OF E X P E R I E N C E .
1. I here employ the term Experience in a m ore defi­
nite and limited sense than that which it possesses in
common usage; for I restrict it to matters belonging to
the domain of science. In such cases, the knowledge
which we acquire, by means of experience, is of a clear
and precise nature; and the passions and feelings and
interests, which make the lessons of experience in prac­
tical matters so difficult to read aright, no longer disturb
and confuse us. We may, therefore, hope, by attending
to such cases, to learn what efficacy experience really
has, in the discovery of truth.
That from experience (including intentional expe­
rience, or o
b
s
e
r
v
a
t
i
o
n
,) we obtain much knowledge which
is highly important, and which could not be procured
from any other source, is abundantly clear. We have
already taken several examples of such knowledge.
We know by experience that animals which ruminate
are cloven-hoofed; and we know this in no other man­
ner. We know, in like manner, that all the planets and
their satellites revolve round the sun from west to east.
It has been found by experience that all meteoric stones
contain chrome. Many similar portions of our know­
ledge might be mentioned.
Now what we have here to remark is this;—that in
no case can experience prove a proposition to be neces­
sarily or universally true. However many instances we
may have observed ofthe truth of a proposition, yet ifit be
known merely by observation, there is nothing to assure
us that the next case shall not be an exception to the rule.
If it be strictly true that every ruminant animal yet
known has cloven hoofs, we still cannot be sure that
Digitized by G oogk
OF EXPERIENCE. G3
some creature will not hereafter be discovered which has
the first of these attributes without having the other.
When the planets and their satellites, as far as Saturn, had
been all found to move round the sun in one direction,
it was still possible that there might be other such bodies
not obeying this rule; and, accordingly, when the satel­
lites of Uranus were detected, they appeared to offer an
exception ofthis kind. Even in the mathematical sciences,
we have examples of such rules suggested by experience,
and also of their precariousness. However far they may
have been tested, we cannot depend upon their correct­
ness, except we see some reason for the rule. For
instance, various rules have been given, for the purpose
of pointing out primenumbers; that is, those which can­
not be divided by any other number. We may try, as
an example of such a rule, this one—any odd power of
the number two, diminished by one. Thus the third
power of two, diminished by one, is seven; the fifth
power, diminished by one, is thirty-one; the seventh
power so diminished is one hundred and twenty-seven.
All these are prime numbers: and we might be led to
suppose that the rule is universal. But the next ex­
ample shows us the fallaciousness of such a belief. The
ninth power of two, diminished by one, is five hundred
and eleven, which is not a prime, being divisible by seven.
Experience must always consist of a limited number
of observations. And, however numerous these may be,
they can show nothing with regard to the infinite
number of cases in which the experiment has not been
made. Experience being thus unable to prove a fact
to be universal, is, as will readily be seen, still more
incapable of proving a truth to be necessary. Expe­
rience cannot, indeed, offer the smallest ground for the
necessity of a proposition. She can observe and record
what has happened; but she cannot find, in any case, or
Digitized by Google
G
4 OF IOEAS IN GENERAL.
in any accumulation of cases, any reason for what
happen. She may see objects side by side; but she
cannot see a reason why they must ever be side by side.
She finds certain events to occur in succession; but the
succession supplies, in its occurrence, no reason for its
recurrence. She contemplates external objects; but she
cannot detect any internal bond, which indissolubly
connects the future with the past, the possible with the
real. To learn a proposition by experience, and to see
it to be necessarily true, are two altogether different pro­
cesses of thought.
2. But it may be said, that we do learn by means
of observation and experience many universal truths;
indeed, all the general truths of which science consists.
Is not the doctrine of universal gravitation learnt by
experience ? Are not the laws of motion, the properties
of light, the general principles of chemistry, so learnt ?
How, with these examples before us, can we say that
experience teaches no universal truths ?
To this we reply, that these truths can only be
known to be general, not universal, if they depend upon
experience alone. Experience cannot bestow that uni­
versality which she herself cannot have, and that necessity
of which she has no comprehension. If these doctrines
are universally true, this universality flows from the ideas
which we apply to our experience, and which are, as we
have seen, the real sources of necessary truth. How far
these ideas can communicate their universality and
necessity to the results of experience, it will hereafter
be our business to consider. It will then appear, that
when the mind collects from observation truths of a wide
and comprehensive kind, which approach to the sim­
plicity and universality of the truths of pure science;
she gives them this character by throwing upon them
the light of her own Fundamental Ideas.
Digitized by Googk
OP EXPERIENCE. G5
But the truths which we discover by observation of
the external world, even when most strikingly simple
and universal, are not necessary truths. Is the doctrine
of universal gravitation necessarily true ? It was doubted
by Clairaut (so far as it refers to the moon), when the
progression of the apogee in fact appeared to be twice
as great as the theory admitted. It has been doubted,
even more recently, with respect to the planets, their
mutual perturbations appearing to indicate a deviation
from the law. It is doubted still, by some persons, with
respect to the double stars. But suppose all these
doubts to be banished, and the law to be universal; is it
then proved to be necessary ? Manifestly not: the very
existence of these doubts proves that it is not so. For
the doubts were dissipated by reference to observation
and calculation, not by reasoning on the nature of the
law. Clairaut’s difficulty was removed by a more exact
calculation of the effect of the sun’s force on the motion
of the apogee. The suggestion of Bessel, that the in­
tensity of gravitation might be different for different
planets, was found to be unnecessary, when Professor
Airy gave a more accurate determination of the mass of
Jupiter. And the question whether the extension of the
law of the inverse square to the double stars be true,
(one of the most remarkable questions now before the
scientific world,) must be answered, not by any specula­
tions concerning what the laws of attraction must neces­
sarily be, but by carefully determining the actual laws
of the motion of these curious objects, by means of the
observations such as those which Sir John Herschel has
collected for that purpose, by his unexampled survey of
both hemispheres of the sky. And since the extent of
this truth is thus to be determined by reference to ob­
served facts, it is clear that no mere accumulation of
VOL. i. w. p. F
Digitized by Google
G
G OF IDEAS IN GENERAL.
them can make its universality certain, or its necessity
apparent.
Thus no knowledge of the necessity of any truths
can result from the observation of what really happens.
This being clearly understood, we are led to an import­
ant inquiry.
The characters of universality and necessity in the
truths which form part of our knowledge, can never
be derived from experience, by which so large a part
of our knowledge is obtained. But since, as we have
seen, we really do possess a large body of truths which
are necessary, and because necessary, therefore universal,
the question still recurs, from what source these charac­
ters of universality and necessity are derived.
The answer to this question we will attempt to give
in the next chapter.
Chapter VI.
O F T H E GROUNDS OF NECESSA RY T R U T H S.
1. To the question just stated, I reply, that the neces­
sity and universality of the truths which form a part of
our knowledge, are derived from the Fundamental Ideas
which those truths involve. These ideas entirely shape
and circumscribe our knowledge; they regulate the ac­
tive operations of our minds, without which our passive
sensations do not become knowledge. They govern
these operations, according to rules which are not only
fixed and permanent, but which may be expressed in
plain and definite terms; and these rules, when thus
expressed, may be made the basis of demonstrations by
which the necessary relations imparted to our know­
ledge by our Ideas may be traced to their consequences
in the most remote ramifications of scientific truth.
Digitized by Googk
GROUNDS OF NECESSARY TRUTHS. 67
These enunciations of the necessary and evident con­
ditions imposed upon our knowledge by the Fundamental
Ideas which it involves, are termed Aocioms. Thus the
Axioms of Geometry express the necessary conditions
which result from the Idea of Space; the Axioms of
Mechanics express the necessary conditions which flow
from the Ideas of Force and Motion; and so on.
2. It will be the office of several of the succeeding
Books of this work to establish and illustrate in detail
what I have thus stated in general terms. I shall there
pass in review many of the most important fundamental
ideas on which the existing body of our science depends;
and I shall endeavour to show, for each such idea in
succession, that knowledge involves an active as well as
a passive element; that it is not possible without an act
of the mind, regulated by certain laws. I shall further
attempt to enumerate some of the principal fundamental
relations which each idea thus introduces into our
thoughts, and to express them by means 'of definitions
and axioms, and other suitable forms.
I will only add a remark or two to illustrate further
this view of the ideal grounds of our knowledge.
8. To persons familiar with any of the demonstrative
sciences, it will be apparent that if we state all the
Definitions and Axioms which are employed in the
demonstrations, we state the whole basis on which those
reasonings rest. For the whole process of demonstrative
or deductive reasoning in any science, (as in geometry,
for instance,) consists entirely in combining some of these
first principles so as to obtain the simplest propositions
of the science; then combining these so as to obtain
other propositions of greater complexity; and so on, till
we advance to the most recondite demonstrable truths;
these last, however, intricate and unexpected, still in­
volving no principles except the original definitions and
F 2
Digitized by Google
6 8 OF IDEAS IN GENERAL.
axioms. Thus, by combining the Definition of a triangle,
and the Definitions of equal lines and equal angles,
namely, that they are such as when applied to each
other, coincide, with the Axiom respecting straight lines
(that two such lines cannot inclose a space,) we demon­
strate the equality of triangles, under certain assumed
conditions. Again, by combining this result with the
Definition of parallelograms, and with the Axiom that if
equals be taken from equals the wholes are equal, we
prove the equality of parallelograms between the same
parallels and upon the same base. From this proposi­
tion, again, we prove the equality of the square on the
hypotenuse of a triangle to the squares on the two sides
containing the right angle. But in all this there is
nothing contained which is not rigorously the result of
our geometrical Definitions and Axioms. All the rest
of our treatises of geometry consists only of terms and
phrases of reasoning, the object of which is to connect
those first principles, and to exhibit the effects of their
combination in the shape of demonstration.
4. This combination of first principles takes place
according to the forms and rules of Logic. All the
steps of the demonstration may be stated in the shape in
which logicians are accustomed to exhibit processes of
reasoning in order to show their conclusiveness, that is,
in Syllogisms. Thus our geometrical reasonings might
be resolved into such steps as the following:—
All straight lines drawn from the centre of a circle
to its circumference are equal:
But the straight lines ab, ac, are drawn from the
centre of a circle to its circumference :
Therefore the straignt lines ab, ac, are equal.
Each step of geometrical, and all other demonstra­
tive reasoning, may be resolved into three such clauses
as these; and these three clauses are termed respectively,
Digitized by Googk
GROUNDS OF NECESSARY TRUTHS. C
D
the major premiss, the minor premiss,.and the conclu­
sion; or, more briefly, the major, the minor, and the
conclusion.
The principle which justifies the reasoning when
exhibited in this syllogistic form, is this :—that a truth
which can be asserted as generally, or rather as univer­
sally true, can be asserted as true also in each particular
case. The minoi' only asserts a certain particular case
to be an example of such conditions as are spoken of in
the major; and hence the conclusion, which is true of
the major by supposition, is true of the minor by conse­
quence ; and thus we proceed from syllogism to syl­
logism, in each one employing some general truth in
some particular instance. Any proof which occurs in
geometry, or any other science of demonstration, may
thus be reduced to a series of processes, in each of
which we pass from some general proposition to the
narrower and more special propositions which it in­
cludes. And this process of deriving truths by the mere
combination of general principles, applied in particular
hypothetical cases, is called deduction; being opposed
to induction, in which, as we have seen, (Chap. I. Sect. 3.)
a new general principle is introduced at every step.
5. Now we have to remark that, this being so, how­
ever far we follow such deductive reasoning, we can
never have, in our conclusion any truth which is not
virtually included in the original principles from which
the reasoning started. For since at any step we merely
take out of a general proposition something included in
it, while at the preceding step we have taken this ge­
neral proposition out of one more general, and so on
perpetually, it is manifest that our last result was really
included in the principle or principles with which we
began. I say principles, because, although our logical
conclusion can only exhibit the legitimate issue of our
Digitized by Googk
70 OP IDEAS IN GENERAL.
first principles, it may, nevertheless, contain the result
of the combination of several such principles, and may
thus assume a great degree of complexity, and may ap­
pear so far removed from the parent truths, as to betray
at first sight hardly any relationship with them. Thus
the proposition which has already been quoted respect­
ing the squares on the sides of a right-angled triangle,
contains the results of many elementary principles; as,
the definitions of parallels, triangle, and square; the
axioms respecting straight lines, and respecting paral­
lels; and, perhaps, others. The conclusion is compli­
cated by containing the effects of the combination of all
these elements; but it contains nothing, and can contain
nothing, but such elements and their combinations.
This doctrine, that logical reasoning produces no new
truths, but only unfolds and brings into view those truths
which were, in effect, contained in the first principles of
the reasoning, is assented to by almost all who, in
modern times, have attended to the science of logic.
Such a view is admitted both by those who defend, and
by those who depreciate the value of logic. “ Whatever
is established by reasoning, must have been contained
and virtually asserted in the premises*.” “ The only
truth which such propositions can possess consists in
conformity to the original principles.”
In this manner the whole substance of our geometry
is reduced to the Definitions and Axioms which we
employ in our elementary reasonings; and in like man­
ner we reduce the demonstrative truths of any other
science to the definitions and axioms which we there
employ.
6. But in reference to this subject, it has sometimes
been said that demonstrative sciences do in reality depend
upon Definitions only; and that no additional kind of
• TVhateley’s Logic, pp. 237, 238.
Digitized by Googk
GROUNDS OP NECESSARY TRUTHS. 71
principle, such as we have supposed Axioms to be, is
absolutely required. It has been asserted that in geo­
metry, for example, the source of the necessary truth of
our propositions is this, that they depend upon definitions
alone, and consequently merely state the identity of the
same thing under different aspects.
That in the sciences which admit of demonstration,
as geometry, mechanics, and the like, Axioms as well as
Definitions are needed, in order to express the grounds
of our necessary convictions, must be shown hereafter
by an examination of each of these sciences in particular.
But that the propositions of these sciences, those of geo­
metry for example, do not merely assert the identity of
the same thing, will, I think, be generally allowed, if we
consider the assertions which we are enabled to make.
When we declare that “ a straight line is the shortest
distance between two points,” is this merely an identical
proposition ? the definition of a straight line in another
form ? Not so: the definition of a straight line involves
the notion of form only, and does not contain anything
about magnitude; consequently, it cannot contain any­
thing equivalent to “ shortest.” Thus the propositions
of geometry are not merely identical propositions; nor
have we in their general character anything to coun­
tenance the assertion, that they are the results of defi­
nitions alone. And when we come to examine this and
other sciences more closely, we shall find that axioms,
such as are usually in our treatises made the funda­
mental principles of our demonstrations, neither have
ever been, nor can be, dispensed with. Axioms, as well
as Definitions, are in all cases requisite, in order pro­
perly to exhibit the grounds of necessary truth.
7. Thus the real logical basis of every body of demon­
strated truths are the Definitions and Axioms which are
the first principles of the reasonings. But when we are
Digitized by Google
72 OF IDEAS IN GENERAL.
arrived at this point, the question further occurs, what
is the ground of the truth of these Axioms ? It is not
the logical, but the philosophical, not the formal, but the
real foundation of necessary truth, which we are seeking.
Hence this inquiry necessarily comes before us, What
is the ground of the Axioms of Geometry, of Mechanics,
aud of any other demonstrable science ?
The. answer which we are led to give, by the view
which we have taken of the nature of knowledge, has
already been stated. The ground of the axioms belong­
ing to each science is the Ideawhich th
The ground of the Axioms of Geometry is the Idea
Space: the ground of the Axioms of Mechanics is the
Idea of Force, of Action and R,
and th
hence these Ideas are Fundamental Ideas; and since they
are thus the foundations, not only of demonstration but
of truth, an examination into their real import and
nature is of the greatest consequence to our purpose.
8. Not only the Axioms, but the Definitions which
form the basis of our reasonings, depend upon our Fun­
damental Ideas. And the Definitions are not arbitrary
definitions, but are determined by a necessity no less
rigorous than the Axioms themselves. We could not
think of geometrical truths without conceiving a circle;
and we could not reason concerning such truths without
defining a circle in some mode equivalent to that which
is commonly adopted. The Definitions of parallels, of
right angles, and the like, are quite as necessarily pre­
scribed by the nature of the case, as the Axioms which
these Definitions bring with them. Indeed we may
substitute one of these kinds of principles for another.
We cannot always put a Definition in the place of an
Axiom; but we may always find an Axiom which shall
take the place of a Definition. If we assume a proper
Axiom respecting straight lines, we need no Definition
Digitized by Googk
GROUNDS OF NECESSARY TRUTHS. 73
of a straight line. But in whatever shape the principle
appear, as Definition or as Axiom, it has about it nothing
casual or arbitrary, but is determined to be what it is, as
to its import, by the most rigorous necessity, growing
out of the Idea of Space.
9. These principles,—Definitions, and Axioms,—thus
exhibiting the primary developements of a fundamental
idea, do in fact express the idea, so far as its expression
in words forms part of our science. They are different
views of the same body of truth; and though each prin­
ciple, by itself exhibits only one aspect of this body,
taken together they convey a sufficient conception of it
for our purposes. The Idea itself cannot be fixed in
words; but these various lines of truth proceeding from
it, suggest sufficiently to a fitly-prepared mind, the place
where the idea resides, its nature, and its efficacy.
It is true that these principles,—our elementary Defi­
nitions and Axioms,— even taken altogether, express the
Idea incompletely. Thus the Definitions and Axioms of
Geometry, as they are stated in our elementary works,
do not fully express the Idea of Space as it exists in our
minds. For, in addition to these, other Axioms, inde­
pendent of these, and no less evident, can be stated; and
are in fact stated when we come to the Higher Geo­
metry. Such, for instance, is the Axiom of Archimedes
—that a curve line which joins two points is less than a
broken line which joins the same points and includes the
curve. And thus the Idea is disclosed but not fully re­
vealed, imparted but not transfused, by the use we make
of it in science. When we have taken from the fountain
so much as serves our purpose, there still remains behind
a deep well of truth, which we have not exhausted, and
which we may easily believe to be inexhaustible.
Digitized by Googk
7 4
Chapter VII.
TH E FUNDAM ENTAL IDEAS A RE NOT D E R IV E D
FROM E X PE R IE N C E .
1. B y the course of speculation contained in the last
three Chapters, we are again led to the conclusion which
we have already stated, that our knowledge contains an
ideal element, and that this element is not derived from
experience. For we have seen that there are proposi­
tions which are known to be necessarily true; and that
such knowledge is not, and cannot be, obtained by mere
observation of actual facts. It has been shown, also,
that these necessary truths are the results of certain fun­
damental ideas, such as those of space, number, and the
like. Hence it follows inevitably that these ideas and
others of the same kind are not derived from experience.
For these ideas possess a power of infusing into their
developements that very necessity which experience can
in no way bestow. This power they do not borrow from
the external world, but possess by their own nature.
Thus we unfold out of the Idea of Space the propositions
of geometry, which are plainly truths of the most rigor­
ous necessity and universality. But if the idea of space
were merely collected from observation of the external
world, it could never enable or entitle us to assert such
propositions: it could never authorize us to say that not
merely some lines, but all lines, not only have, but
have, those properties which geometry teaches. Geo­
metry in every proposition speaks a language which
experience never dares to utter; and indeed of which
she but half comprehends the meaning. Experience
sees that the assertions are true, but she sees not how
profound and absolute is their truth. She unhesitatingly
assents to the laws which geometry delivers, but she does
Digitized by Googk
FUNDAMENTAL IDEAS NOT DERIVATIVE. 75
not pretend to see the origin of their obligation. She
is always ready to acknowledge the sway of pure scien­
tific principles as a matter of fact, but she does not
dream of offering her opinion on their authority as a
matter of right; still less can she justly claim to be her­
self the source of that authority.
David Hume asserted*, that we are incapable of
seeing in any of the appearances which the world pre­
sents anything of necessary connexion; and hence he
inferred that our knowledge cannot extend to any such
connexion. It will be seen from what we have said that
we assent to his remark as to the fact, but we differ from
him altogether in the consequence to be drawn from it.
Our inference from Hume’s observation is, not the truth
of his conclusion, but the falsehood of his premises;—
not that, therefore, we can know nothing of natural con­
nexion, but that, therefore, we have some other source of
knowledge than experience:— not, that we can have no
idea of connexion or causation, because, in his language,
it cannot be the copy of an impression; but that since
we have such an idea, our ideas are not the copies of
our impressions.
Since it thus appears that our fundamental ideas are
not acquired from the external world by our senses, but
have some separate and independent origin, it is im­
portant for us to examine their nature and properties, as
they exist in themselves; and this it will be our business
to do through a portion of the following pages. But it
may be proper first to notice one or two objections
which may possibly occur to some readers.
2. It may be said that without the use of our senses,
of sight and touch, for instance, we should never have
any idea of space; that this idea, therefore, may properly
be said to be derived from those senses. And to this I
• Essays, Yol. n. p. 70.
Digitized by Googk
76 O F IDEAS IN GENERAL.
reply, by referring to a parallel instance. Without light
we should have no perception of visible figure; yet the
power of perceiving visible figure cannot be said to be
derived from the light, but resides in the structure of the
eye. If we had never seen objects in the light, we
should be quite unaware that we possessed a power of
vision; yet we should not possess it the less on that
account. If we had never exercised the senses of sight
and touch (if we can conceive such a state of human ex­
istence) we know not that we should be conscious of an
idea of space. But the light reveals to us at the same
time the existence of external objects and our own power
of seeing. And in a very similar manner, the exercise
of our senses discloses to us, at the same time, the ex­
ternal world, and our own ideas of space, time, and other
conditions, without which the external ■world can neither
be observed nor conceived. That light is necessary to
vision, does not, in any degree, supersede the importance
of a separate examination of the laws of our visual
powers, if we would understand the nature of our own
bodily faculties and the extent of the information they
can give us. In like manner, the fact that intercourse
with the external world is necessary for the conscious
employment of our ideas, does not make it the less es­
sential for us to examine those ideas in their most inti­
mate structure, in order that we may understand the
grounds and limits of our knowledge. Even before we
see a single object, we have a faculty of vision; and in
like manner, if we can suppose a man who has never
contemplated an object in space or time, we must still
assume him to have the faculties of entertaining the ideas
of space and time, which faculties are called into play
on the very first occasion of the use of the senses.
3. In answer to such remarks as the above, it has
sometimes been said that to assume separate faculties in
Digitized by Google
FUNDAMENTAL IDEAS NOT DERIVATIVE. 77
the mind for so many different processes of thought, is to
give a mere verbal explanation, since we learn nothing
concerning our idea of space by being told that we have
a faculty of forming such an idea. It has been said that
this course of explanation leads to an endless multipli­
cation of elements in man’s nature, without any advan­
tage to our knowledge of his true constitution. We
may, it is said, assert man to have a faculty of walking,
of standing, of breathing, of speaking ; but what, it is
asked, is gained by such assertions? To this I reply, that
we undoubtedly have such faculties as those just named;
that it is by no means unimportant to consider them; and
that the main question in such cases is, whether they are
separate and independent faculties, or complex and deri­
vative ones ; and, if the latter be the case, what are the
simple and original faculties by the combination of which
the others are produced. In walking, standing, breath­
ing, for instance, a great part of the operation can be
reduced to one single faculty ; the voluntary exercise of
our muscles. But in breathing this does not appear to
be the whole of the process. The operation is, in part at
least, involuntary ; and it has been held that there is a
certain sympathetic action of the nerves, in addition to
the voluntary agency which they transmit, which is essen­
tial to the function. To determine whether or no this
sympathetic faculty is real and distinct, and if so, what
are its laws and limits, is certainly a highly philosophical
inquiry, and well deserving the attention which has been
bestowed upon it by eminent physiologists. And just of
the same nature are the inquiries with respect to man’s
intellectual constitution, on which we propose to enter.
For instance, man has a faculty of apprehending time,
and a faculty of reckoning numbers: are these distinct, or
is one faculty derived from the other? To analyze the
various combinations of our ideas and observations into
Digitized by Googk
78 OF IDEAS IN GENERAL.
the original faculties which they involve; to show that
these faculties are original, and not capable of further
analysis: to point out the characters which mark these
faculties and lead to the most important features of our
knowledge;—these are the kind of researches on which
we have now to enter, and these, we trust, will be found
to be far from idle or useless parts of our plan. If we
succeed in such attempts, it will appear that it is by
no means a frivolous or superfluous step to distinguish
separate faculties in the mind. If we do not learn much
by being told that we have a faculty of forming the idea
of space, we at least, by such a commencement, circum­
scribe a certain portion of the field of our investigations,
which, we shall afterwards endeavour to show, requires
and rewards a special examination. And though we shall
thus have to separate the domain of our philosophy into
many provinces, these are, as we trust it will appear,
neither arbitrarily assigned, nor vague in their limits,
nor infinite in number.
Chapter VIII.
OF TH E PH IL O SO PH Y OF TH E SCIENCES.
W e proceed, in the ensuing Books, to the closer exami­
nation of a considerable number of those Fundamental
Ideas on which the sciences, hitherto most successfully
cultivated, are founded. In this task, our objects will
be to explain and analyze such Ideas so as to bring into
view the Definitions and Axioms, or other forms, in
which we may clothe the conditions to which our specu­
lative knowledge is subjected. I shall also try to prove,
for some of these Ideas in particular, what has been
already urged respecting them in general, that they are
Digitized by Google
rillLOSOPHY OF SCIENCES. 79
not derived from observation, but necessarily impose
their conditions upon that knowledge of which observa­
tion supplies the materials. I shall further, in some
cases, endeavour to trace the history of these Ideas as
they have successively come into notice in the progress
of science; the gradual developement by which they have
arrived at their due purity and clearness; and, as a
necessary part of such a history, I shall give a view of
6ome of the principal controversies which have taken
place with regard to each portion of knowledge.
An exposition and discussion of the Fundamental
Ideas of each Science may, with great propriety, be
termed the Philosophy of such Science. These ideas
contain in themselves the elements ofthose truths which
the science discovers and enunciates; and in the progress
of the sciences, both in the world at large and in the
mind of each individual student, the most important
steps consist in apprehending these ideas clearly, and in
bringing them into accordance with the observed facts.
I shall, therefore, in a series of Books, treat of the Phi­
losophy of the Pure Sciences, the Philosophy of the
Mechanical Sciences, the Philosophy of Chemistry, and
the like, and shall analyze and examine the ideas which
these sciences respectively involve.
In this undertaking, inevitably somewhat long, and
involving many deep and subtle discussions, I shall take,
as a chart of the country before me, by which my course
is to be guided, the scheme of the sciences which I was
led to form by travelling over the history of each in
order*. Each of the sciences of which I then narrated
the progress, depends upon several of the Fundamental
Ideas of which I have to speak: some of these Ideas are
peculiar to one field of speculation, others are common
to more. A previous enumeration of Ideas thus collected
• History of the Inductive Sciences,
Digitized by Googk
8 0 OF IDEAS IN GENERAL.
may serve both to show the course and limits o f this part
of our plan, and the variety of interest which it offers.
I shall, then, successively, have to speak o f the Ideas
which are the foundation of Geometry and Arithmetic,
(and which also regulate all sciences depending upon
these, as Astronomy and Mechanics;) namely, the Ideas
of Space, Time, and Number:
Of the Ideas on which the Mechanical Sciences (as
Mechanics, Hydrostatics, Physical Astronomy) more pecu­
liarly rest; the ideas of Force and Matter, or rather the
idea of Cause, which is the basis of these :
Ofthe Ideas which the Secondary Mechanical Sciences
(Acoustics, Optics, and Thermotics) involve; namely, the
Ideas of the Externality of objects, and of the Media
by which we perceive their qualities:
Of the Ideas which are the basis of Meehanico-che-
mical and Chemical Science; Polarity, Chemical Affinity,
and Substance; and the Idea of Symmetry, a necessary
part of the Philosophy of Crystallography:
Of the Ideas on which the Classificatory Sciences
proceed (Mineralogy, Botany, and Zoology); namely, the
Ideas of Resemblance, and of its gradations, and of
Natural Affinity:
Finally, of those Ideas on which the Physiological
Sciences are founded; the Ideas of separate Vital Powers,
such as Assimilation and I
r
r
i
ta
nd the Id
Final Cause.
We have, besides these, the Palietiological Sciences,
which proceed mainly on the conception of Historical
Causation.
It is plain that when we have proceeded so far as
this, we have advanced to the verge of those speculations
which have to do with mind as well as body. The
extension of our philosophy to such a field, if it can be
justly so extended, will be one of the most important
Digitized by Googk
PHILOSOPHY OF SCIENCES. 81
results of our researches; but on that very account we
must fully study the lessons which we learn in those
fields of speculation where our doctrines are most secure,
before we venture into a region where our principles will
appear to be more precarious, and where they are inevi­
tably less precise.
We now proceed to the examination of the above
Ideas, and to such essays towards the philosophy of each
Science as this course of investigation may suggest.
VOL. I. w . p. G
Digitized by Google
82
BOOK II.
T H E P H I L O S O P H Y OF T H E P U R E
S C I E N C E S .
Chapter I.
O F T H E P U R E S C IE N C E S .
1. A ll external objects and events which we can con­
template are viewed as having relations of Space, Time,
and Number; and are subject to the general conditions
which these Ideas impose, as well as to the particular
laws which belong to each class of objects and occur­
rences. The special laws of nature, considered under
the various aspects which constitute the different sciences,
are obtained by a mixed reference to experience and to
the fundamental ideas of each science. But besides the
sciences thus formed by the aid ofspecial experience, the
conditions which flow from those more comprehensive
ideas first mentioned, Space, Time, and Number, consti­
tute a body of science, applicable to objects and changes
of all kinds, and deduced without recurrence being had
to any observation in particular. These sciences, thus
unfolded out of ideas alone, unmixed with ahy reference
to the phenomena of matter, are hence termed Pure
Sciences. The principal sciences of this class are Geome­
try, Theoretical Arithmetic, and Algebra considered in its
most general sense, as the investigation of the relations
of space and number by means of general symbols.
Digitized by Google
OF THE PURE SCIENCES. 83
2. These Pure Sciences were not included in our
survey of the history of the sciences, because they are
not inductive sciences. Their progress has not consisted
in collecting laws from phenomena, true theories from
observed facts, and more general from more limited laws;
but in tracing the consequences of the ideas themselves*
and in detecting the most general and intimate analogies
and connexions which prevail among such conceptions as
are derivable from the ideas. These sciences have no
principles besides definitions and axioms, and no process
of proof but d e d u c t i o n ;this process, however,
here a most remarkable character; and exhibiting a com­
bination of simplicity and complexity, of rigour and
generality, quite unparalleled in other subjects.
3. The universality of the truths, and the rigour of
the demonstrations of these pure sciences, attracted
attention in the earliest times; and it was perceived that
they offered an exercise and a discipline of the intellec­
tual faculties, in a form peculiarly free from admixture
of extraneous elements. They were strenuously culti­
vated by the Greeks, both with a view to such a disci­
pline, and from the love of speculative truth which pre­
vailed among that people: and the name mathematics, by
which they are designated, indicates this their character
of disciplinal studies.
4. As has already been said, the ideas which these
sciences involve extend to all the objects and changes
which we observe in the external world; and hence the
consideration of mathematical relations forms a large
portion of many of the sciences which treat of the phe­
nomena and laws of external nature, as Astronomy,
Optics, and Mechanics. Such sciences are hence often
termed Mixed Mathematics, the relations of space and
number being, in these branches of knowledge, combined
with principles collected from special observation;
G 2
Digitized by Google
84 PHILOSOPHY OF THE PURE SCIENCES.
while Geometry, Algebra, and the like subjects, which
involve no result of experience, are called Pure Mathe­
matics.
5. Space, time, and number, may be conceived as
forms by which the knowledge derived from our sensa­
tions is moulded, and which are independent of the dif­
ferences in the matter of our knowledge, arising from the
sensations themselves. Hence the sciences which have
these ideas for their subject may be termed Formal
Sciences. In this point of view, they are distinguished
from sciences in which, besides these mere formal law?
by which appearances are corrected, we endeavour to
apply to the phenomena the idea of cause, or some ofthe
other ideas which penetrate further into the principles
of nature. We have thus, in the History, distinguished
Formal Astronomy and Formal Optics from Physical
Astronomy and Physical Optics.
We now proceed to our examination of the Ideas
which constitute the foundation of these formal or pure
mathematical sciences, beginning with the Idea of Space.
Chapter II.
O F T H E ID E A O F S P A C E .
1. BY speaking of space as an Idea, I intend to imply,
as has already been stated, that the apprehension of
objects as existing in space, and of the relations of posi­
tion, &c., prevailing among them, is not a consequence
of experience, but a result of a peculiar constitution and
activity of the mind, which is independent of all expe­
rience in its origin, though constantly combined with
experience in its exercise.
That the idea of space is thus independent of experi­
ence, has already been pointed out in speaking of ideas
Digitized by Google
OP THE IDEA OF SPACE. 85
in general: but it may be useful to illustrate the doctrine
further in this particular case.
I assert, then, that space is not a notion obtained
by experience. Experience gives us information con­
cerning things without u s: but our apprehending them
aswithout us, takes for granted their existence in space.
Experience acquaints us what are the form, position,
magnitude of particular objects: but that they have form,
position, magnitude, presupposes that they are in space.
We cannot derive from appearances, by the way of
observation, the habit of representing things to ourselves
as in space; for no single act of observation is possible
any otherwise than by beginning with such a representa­
tion, and conceiving objects as already existing in space.
2. That our mode of representing space to ourselves
is not derived from experience, is clear also from this:
—that through this mode of representation we arrive at
propositions which are rigorously universal and neces­
sary. Propositions of such a kind could not possibly be
obtained from experience; for experience can only teach
us by a limited number of examples, and therefore can
never securely establish a universal proposition: and
again, experience can only inform us that anything is so,
and can never prove that it must be so. That two sides
of a triangle are greater than the third is a universal
and necessary geometrical truth: it is true of all tri­
angles ; it is true in such a way that the contrary cannot
be conceived. Experience could not prove such a propo­
sition. And experience has not proved it; for perhaps
no man ever made the trial as a means of removing
doubts: and no trial could, in fact, add in the smallest
degree to the certainty of this truth. To seek for proof
of geometrical propositions by an appeal to observation
proves nothing in reality, except that the person who
has recourse to such grounds has no due apprehension
Digitized by Google
8 6 PHILOSOPHY OF THE PURE SCIENCES.
of the nature of geometrical demonstration. We have
heard of persons who convinced themselves by measure­
ment that the geometrical rule respecting the squares
on the sides of a right-angled triangle was true: but
these were persons whose minds had been engrossed by
practical habits, and in whom the speculative develope-
ment of the idea of space had been stifled by other em­
ployments. The practical trial of the rule may illustrate,
but cannot prove it. The rule will of course be con­
firmed by such trial, because what is true in general is
true in particular: but the rule cannot be proved from any
number of trials, for no accumulation of particular cases
makes up a universal case. To all persons who can see
the force of any proof the geometrical rule above referred
to is as evident, and its evidence as independent of ex­
perience, as the assertion that sixteen and nine make
twenty-five. At the same time, the truth of the geome­
trical rule is quite independent of numerical truths, and
results from the relations of space alone. This could
not be if our apprehension of the relations of space were
the fruit of experience: for experience has no element
from which such truth and such proof could arise.
3. Thus the existence of necessary truths, such as
those of geometry, proves that the idea of space from
which they flow, is not derived from experience. Such
truths are inconceivable on the supposition of their being
collected from observation; for the impressions of sense
include no evidence of necessity. But we can readily
understand the necessary character of such truths, if we
conceive that there are certain necessary conditions under
which alone the mind receives the impressions of sense.
Since these conditions reside in the constitution of the
mind, and apply to every perception of an object to
Which the mind can attain, we easily see that their rules
must include, not only all that has been, but all that can
Digitized by Googk
OF TUE IDEA OF SPACE. 87
be, matter of experience. Our sensations can each con­
vey no information except about itself; each can contain
no trace of another additional sensation; and thus no
relation and connexion between two sensations can be
given by the sensations themselves. But the mode in
which the mind perceives these impressions as objects,
may and will introduce necessary relations among them:
and thus by conceiving the idea of space to be a con­
dition of perception in the mind, we can conceive the
existence of necessary truths, which apply to all per­
ceived objects.
4. If we consider the impressions of sense as the
mere materials of our experience, such materials may
be accumulated in any quantity and in any order. But
if we suppose that this matter has a certain form given
it, in the act of being accepted by the mind, we can
understand how it is that these materials are subject to
inevitable rules;—how nothing can be perceived exempt
from the relations which belong to such a form. And
since there are such truths applicable to our experience,
and arising from the nature of space, we may thus
consider space as a form which the materials given by
experience necessarily assume in the mind; as an ar­
rangement derived from the perceiving mind, and not
from the sensations alone.
5. Thus this phrase,—that space is aform belonging
to our perceptive power,—may be employed to express
that we cannot perceive objects as in space, without an
operation of the mind as well as of the senses—without
active as well as passive faculties. This phrase, how­
ever, is not necessary to the exposition of our doctrines.
Whether we call the conception of space a condition of
perception, a form of perception, or an idea, or by any
other term, it is something originally inherent in the
mind perceiving, and not in the objects perceived. And
Digitized by Google
88 PHILOSOPHY OF THE PUKE SCIENCES.
it is because the apprehension of all objects is thus sub­
jected to certain mental conditions, forms or ideas, that
our knowledge involves certain inviolable relations and
necessary truths. The principles of such truths, so far
as they regard space, are derived from the idea of space,
and we must endeavour to exhibit such principles in
their general form. But before we do this, we may
notice some of the conditions which belong, not to our
Ideas in general, but to this Idea of Space in parti­
cular.
Chapter III.
O F SOME PE C U L A R IT IE S O F T H E ID E A O F
SPACE.
1. Some of the Ideas which we shall have to examine
involve conceptions of certain relations of objects, as the
idea of Cause and of Likeness; and may appear to be
suggested by experience, enabling us to abstract this
general relation from particular cases. But it will be
seen that Space is not such a general conception of a
relation. For we do not speak of Spaces as we speak of
Causes and Likenesses, but of Space. And when we
speak of spaces, we understand by the expression, parts
of one and the same identical everywhere-extended
Space. We conceive a Universal Space; which is not
made up of these partial spaces as its component parts,
for it would remain if these were taken away; and these
cannot be conceived without presupposing absolute space.
Absolute Space is essentially one; and the complication
which exists in it, and the conception of various spaces,
depends merely upon boundaries. Space must, there­
fore, be, as we have said, not a general conception
abstracted from particulars, but a universal mode of
representation, altogether independent of experience.
Digitized by Google
PECULIARITIES OF THE IDEA OF SPACE. 89
2. Space is infinite. We represent it to ourselves as
an infinitely great magnitude. Such an idea as that of
Likeness or Cause, is, no doubt, found in an infinite
number of particular cases, and so far includes these
cases. But these ideas do not include an infinite number
of cases as parts of an infinite whole. When we say
that all bodies and partial spaces exist infinite space,
we use an expression which is not applied in the same
sense to any cases except those of Space and Time.
3. What is here said may appear to be a denial of
the real existence of space. It must be observed, how­
ever, that we do not deny, but distinctly assert, the
existence of space as a real and necessary condition of
all objects perceived; and that we not only allow that
objects are seen external to us, but we found upon the
fact of their being so seen, our view of the nature of
space. If however, it be said that we deny the reality
of space as an object or thing, this is true. Nor does it
appear easy to maintain that space exists as a thing,
when it is considered that this thing is infinite in all its
dimensions; and, moreover, that it is a thing, which,
being nothing in itself exists only that other things may
exist in it. And those who maintain the real existence
of space, must also maintain the real existence of time in
the same sense. Now two infinite things, thus really
existing, and yet existing only as other things exist in
them, are notions so extravagant that we are driven to
some other mode of explaining the state of the matter.
4. Thus space is not an object of which we perceive
the properties, but a form of our perception; not a thing
which affects our senses, but an idea to which we con­
form the impressions of sense. And its peculiarities ap­
pear to depend upon this, that it is not only a form of
sensation, but of intuition; that in reference to space,
we not only perceive but contemplate objects. We seQ
Digitized by Google
90 PHILOSOPHY OF THE PURE SCIENCES.
objects in space, side by side, exterior to each other;
space, and objects in so far as they occupy space, have
parts exterior to other parts; and have the whole thus
made up by the juxtaposition of parts. This mode of
apprehension belongs only to the ideas of space and
time. Space and Time are made up of parts, but Cause
and Likeness are not apprehended as made up of parts.
And the term intuition (in its rigorous sense) is appli­
cable only to that mode of contemplation in which we
thus look at objects as made up of parts, and apprehend
the relations of those parts at the same time and by the
same act by which we apprehend the objects themselves.
5. As we have said, space limited by boundaries gives
rise to various conceptions which we have often to con­
sider. Thus limited, space assumesform, orfigure; and
the variety of conceptions thus brought under our notice
is infinite. We have every possible form of line, straight
line, and curve; and of curves an endless number;—cir­
cles, parabolas, hyperbolas, spirals, helices. We have
plane surfaces of various shapes,—parallelograms, poly­
gons, ellipses; and we have solid figures,—cubes, cones,
cylinders, spheres, spheroids, and so on. All these have
their various properties, depending on the relations of
their boundaries; and the investigation of their proper­
ties forms the business of the science of Geometry.
6. Space has three dimensions, or directions in which
it may be measured; it cannot have more or fewer. The
simplest measurement is that of a straight line, which
has length alone. A surface has both length and
breadth: and solid space has length, breadth, and thick­
ness or depth. The origin of such a difference of dimen­
sions will be seen if we reflect that each portion of space
has a boundary, and is extended both in the direction in
which its boundary extends, and also in a directionfrom,
its boundary; for otherwise it would not be a boundary.
Digitized by Google
REGULARITIES OF THE IDEA OF SPACE. 91
A point has no dimensions. A line has but one dimen­
sion,—the distance from its boundary, or its length. A
plane, bounded by a straight line, has the dimension
which belongs to this line, and also has another dimen­
sion arising from the distance of its parts from this bound­
ary line; and this may be called breadth. A solid,
bounded by a plane, has the dimensions which this plane
has; and has also a third dimension, which we may call
height or depth, as we consider the solid extended above
or below the plane; or thickness, if we omit all con­
sideration of up and down. And no space can have any
dimensions which are not resoluble into these three.
We may now proceed to consider the mode in which
the idea of space is employed in the formation of
Geometry.
Chapter IV.
O F T H E D EFIN ITIO N S AND AXIOM S W H IC H
R ELA TE TO SPACE.
1. The relations of space have been apprehended
with peculiar distinctness and clearness from the very
first unfolding of man’s speculative powers. This was a
consequence of the circumstance which we have just
noticed, that the simplest of these relations, and those on
which the others depend, are seen by intuition. Hence,
as soon as men were led to speculate concerning the
relations of space, they assumed just principles, and
obtained true results. It is said that the science of
geometry had its origin in Egypt, before the dawn of the
Greek philosophy: but the knowledge of the early
Egyptians (exclusive of their mythology) appears to have
been purely practical; and, probably, their geometry
consisted only in some maxims of which
is what the term implies. The Greeks of the time of
Digitized by Googk
02 PHILOSOPHY OP THE PUKE SCIENCES.
Plato, had, however, not only possessed themselves of
many of the most remarkable elementary theorems of
the science; but had, in several instances, reached the
boundary of the science in its elementary form; as when
they proposed to themselves the problems of doubling
the cube and squaring the circle.
But the deduction of these theorems by a systematic
process, and the primary exhibition of the simplest prin­
ciples involved in the idea of space, which such a
deduction requires, did not take place, so far as we are
aware, till a period somewhat later. The Elements of
Geometry of Euclid, in which this task was performed,
are to this day the standard work on the subject: the
author of this work taught mathematics with great
applause at Alexandria, in the reign of Ptolemy Lagus,
about 280 years before Christ. The principles which
Euclid makes the basis of his system have been very
little simplified since his time; and all the essays and
controversies which bear upon these principles, have
had a reference to the form in which they are stated
by him.
2. Definitions.—The first principles of Euclid’s geo­
metry are, as the first principles of any system of
geometry must be, definitions and axioms respecting
the various ideal conceptions which he introduces; as
straight lines, parallel lines, angles, circles, and the like.
But it is to be observed that these definitions and
axioms are very far from being arbitrary hypotheses and
assumptions. They have their origin in the idea of
space, and are merely modes of exhibiting that idea in
such a manner as to make it afford grounds of deductive
reasoning. The axioms are necessary consequences of
the conceptions respecting which they are asserted; and
the definitions are no less necessary limitations of con­
ceptions ; not requisite in order to arrive at this or that
Digitized by Google
consequence; but necessary in order that it may be
possible to draw any consequences, and to establish any
general truths.
For example, if we rest the end of one straight
staff upon the middle of another straight staff, and move
the first staff into various positions, we, by so doing,
alter the angles which the first staff makes with the
other to the right hand and to the left. But if we
place the staff in that special position in which these
two angles are equal, each of them is a right angle,
according to Euclid; and this is the definition of a right
angle, except that Euclid employs the abstract con­
ception of straight lines, instead of speaking, as we have
done, of staves. But this selection of the case in which
the two angles are equal is not a mere act of caprice;
as it might have been if he had selected a case in which
these angles are unequal in any proportion. For the
consequences which can be drawn concerning the cases
of unequal angles, do not lead to general truths, without
some reference to that peculiar case in which the angles
are equal: and thus it becomes necessary to single out
and define that special case, marking it by a special
phrase. And this definition not only gives complete and
distinct knowledge what a right angle is, to any one
who can form the conception of an angle in general; but
also supplies a principle from which all the properties of
right angles may be deduced.
3. Axioms.— With regard to other conceptions also,
as circles, squares, and the like, it is possible to lay
down definitions which are a sufficient basis for our
reasoning, so far as such figures are concerned. But,
besides these definitions, it has been found necessary to
introduce certain axioms among the fundamental prin­
ciples of geometry. These are of the simplest character;
for instance, that two straight lines cannot cut each
DEFINITIONS AND AXIOMS RELATING TO-SPACE. 9 3
Digitized by Googk
94 PHILOSOPHY OF THE PURE SCIENCES.
other in more than one point, and an axiom concerning
parallel lines. Like the definitions, these axioms flow
from the Idea of Space, and present that idea under
various aspects. They are different from the definitions;
nor can the definitions be made to take the place of the
axioms in the reasoning by which elementary geo­
metrical properties are established. For example, the
definition of parallel straight lines is, that they are such
as, however far continued, can never meet: but, in order
to reason concerning such lines, we must further adopt
some axiom respecting them: for example, we may very
conveniently take this axiom; that two straight lines
which cut one another are not both of them parallel to
a third straight line*. The definition and the axiom are
seen to be inseparably connected by our intuition of the
properties of space; but the axiom cannot be proved
from the definition, by any rigorous deductive demon­
stration. And if we were to take any other definition of
two parallel straight lines, (as that they are both per­
pendicular to a third straight line,) we should still, at
some point or other of our *progress, fall in with the
same difficulty of demonstratively establishing their pro­
perties without some further assumption.
4. Thus the elementary properties of figures, which
are the basis of our geometry, are necessary results of
our Idea of Space; and are connected with each other
by the nature of that idea, and not merely by our hypo­
theses and constructions. Definitions and axioms must
be combined, in order to express this idea so far as
the purposes of demonstrative reasoning require. These
verbal enunciations of the results of the idea cannot be
made to depend on each other by logical consequence;
but have a mutual dependence of a more intimate kind,
* Tliis axiom is simpler and more convenient than that of Euclid.
It is employed by the late Professor Playfair in his Geometry* -
Digitized by Google
which words cannot fully convey. It is not possible to
resolve these truths into certain hypotheses, of which all
the rest shall be the necessary logical consequence. The
necessity is not hypothetical, but intuitive. The axioms
require not to be granted, but to be seen. If any one
were to assent to them without seeing them to be true,
his assent would be of no avail for purposes of reason­
ing: for he would be also unable to see in what cases
they might be applied. The clear possession of the
Idea of Space is the first requisite for all geometrical
reasoning; and this clearness of idea may be tested by
examining whether the axioms offer themselves to the
mind as evident.
5. The necessity of ideas added to sensations, in
order to produce knowledge, has often been overlooked
or denied in modern times. The ground of necessary ’
truth which ideas supply being thus lost, it was con­
ceived that there still remained a ground of necessity in
definitions;—that we might have necessary truths, by
asserting especially what the definition implicity involved
in general. It was held, also, that this was the case in
geometry:— that all the properties of a circle, for
instance, were implicitly contained in the definition of a
circle. That this alone is not the ground of the neces­
sity of the truths which regard the circle,—that we
could not in this way unfold a definition into propor­
tions, without possessing an intuition of the relations to
which the definition led,—has already been shown. But
the insufficiency of the above account of the grounds of
necessary geometrical truth appeared in another way
also. It was found impossible to lay down a system of
definitions out of which alone the whole of geometrical
truth could be evolved. It was found that axioms could
not be superseded. No definition of a straight line
could be given which rendered the axiom concerning
DEFINITIONS AND AXIOMS RELATING TO SPACE. 95
Digitized by Googk
96 PHILOSOPHY OF THE PURE SCIENCES.
straight lines superfluous. And thus it appeared that
the source of geometrical truths was not definition
alone; and we find in this result a confirmation of the
doctrine which we are here urging, that this source of
truth is to be found in the form or conditions of our
perception;—in the idea which we unavoidably combine
with the impressions of sense;—in the activity, and not
in the passivity of the mind*.
6. This will appear further when we come to con­
sider the mode in which we exercise our observation
upon the relations of space. But we may, in the first
place, make a remark which tends to. show the con­
nexion between our conception of a straight line, and
the axiom which is made the foundation of our reason­
ings concerning space. The axiom is this;—that two
straight lines, which have both their ends joined, cannot
have the intervening parts separated so as to inclose a
space. The necessity of this axiom is of exactly the
same kind as the necessity of the definition of a right
angle, of which we have already spoken. For as the line
standing on another makes right angles when it makes
the angles on the two sides of it equal; so a line is a
straight line when it makes the two portions of space,
on the two sides of it, similar. And as there is only a
single position of the line first mentioned, which can
make the angles equal, so there is only a single form of
a line which can make the spaces near the line similar
on one side and on the other: and therefore there can­
not be two straight lines, such as the axiom describes,
* I formerly stated views similar to these in some “ Remarks”
appended to a work which I termed The Mechanical Euclid, pub­
lished in 1837- These Remarks, so far as they bear upon the question
here discussed, were noticed and controverted in No. 135 of the Edin­
burgh Review. As an examination of the reviewer's objections may
serve further to illustrate the subject, I shall annex to this chapter an
answer to the article to which I have referred.
Digitized by Google
which, between the same limits, give two different
boundaries to space thus separated. And thus we see a
reason for the axiom. Perhaps this view may be further
elucidated if we take a leaf of paper, double it, and
crease the folded edge. We shall thus obtain a straight
line at the folded edge; and this line divides the surface
of the paper, as it was originally spread out, into two
similar spaces. And that these spaces are similar so far
as the fold which separates them is concerned, appears
from this;—that these two parts coincide when the
paper is doubled. And thus a fold in a sheet of paper
at the same time illustrates the definition of a straight
line according to the above view, and confirms the
axiom that two such lines cannot enclose a space.
If the separation of the two parts of space were made
by any other than a straight line; if for instance, the
paper were cut by a concave line; then, on turning one
of the parts over, it is easy to see that the edge of one
part being concave one way, and the edge of the other
part concave the other way, these two lines would
enclose a space. And each of them would divide the
whole space into two portions which were not similar;
for one portion would have a concave edge, and the
other a convex edge. Between any two points, there
might be innumerable lines drawn, some, convex one
way, and some, convex the other way; but the straight
line is the line which is not convex either one way or
the other; it is the single medium standard from which
the others may deviate in opposite directions.
Such considerations as these show sufficiently that
the singleness of the straight line which connects any
two points is a result of our fundamental conceptions of
space. But yet the above conceptions of the similar
form of the two parts of space on the two sides of a line,
and of the form of a line which is intermediate among
VOL. i. w . p . H
DEFINITIONS AND AXIOMS RELATING TO SPACE. 97
Digitized by Googk
98 PHILOSOPHY OF THE PURE SCIENCES.
all other forms, are of so vague a nature, that they can­
not fitly be made the basis of our elementary geometry;
and they are far more conveniently replaced, as they
have been in almost all treatises of geometry, by the
axiom, that two straight lines cannot inclose a space.
7. But we may remark that, in what precedes, we
have considered space only under one of its aspects:—as
a plane. The sheet of paper which we assumed in order
to illustrate the nature of a straight line, was supposed
to be perfectly plane orfla t: for otherwise, by folding it,
we might obtain a line not straight. Now this assump­
tion of a plane appears to take for granted that very
conception of a straight line which the sheet was em­
ployed to illustrate; for the definition of a plane given
in the Elements of Geometry is, that it is a surface on
which lie all straight lines drawn from one point of the
surface to another. And thus the explanation above
given of the nature of a straight line,—that it divides a
plane space into similar portions on each side,—appears
to be imperfect or nugatory.
To this we reply, that the explanation must be ren­
dered complete and valid by deriving the conception of
a plane from considerations of the same kind as those
which we employed for a straight line. Any portion of
solid space may be divided into two portions by surfaces
passing through any given line or boundaries. And
these surfaces may be convex either on one side or on
the other, and they admit of innumerable changes from
being convex on one side to being convex on the other
in any degree. So long as the surface is convex either
way, the two portions of space which it separates are not
similar, one having a convex and the other a concave
boundary. But there is a certain intermediate position of
the surface, in which position the two portions of space
>vhich it divides have their boundaries exactly similar.
Digitized by Googk
DEFINITIONS AND AXIOMS RELATING TO SFACE. 9 9
In this position, the surface is neither convex nor concave,
but plane. And thus a plane surface is determined by
this condition—of its being that single surface which is
the intermediate form among all convex and concave
surfaces by which solid space can be divided,—and of
its separating such space into two portions, of which
the boundaries, though they are the same surface in
two opposite positions, are exactly similar.
Thus a plane is the simplest and most symmetrical
boundary by which a solid can be divided; and a straight
line is the simplest and most symmetrical boundary by
which a plane can be separated. These conceptions are
obtained by considering the boundaries of an intermin­
able space, capable of imaginary division in every direc­
tion. And as a limited space may be separated into two
parts by a plane, and a plane again separated into two
parts by a straight line, so a line is divided into two por­
tions by a point, which is the common boundary of the
two portions; the end of the one and the beginning of the
other portion having itself no magnitude, form, or parts.
8. The geometrical properties of planes and solids
are deducible from the first principles of the Elements,
without any new axioms; the definition of a plane above
quoted,—that all straight lines joining its points lie in
the plane,—being a sufficient basis for all reasoning upon
these subjects. And thus, the views which we have pre­
sented of the nature of space being verbally expressed
by means of certain definitions and axioms, become the
groundwork of a long series of deductive reasoning, by
which is established a very large and curious collection
of truths, namely, the whole science of Elementary
Plane and Solid Geometry.
This science is one of indispensable use and constant
reference, for every student of the laws of nature; for the
relations of space and number are the alphabet in which
II 2
Digitized by Googk
100 PHILOSOPHY OF THE PURE SCIENCES.
those laws are written. But besides the interest and im­
portance of this kind which geometry possesses, it has a
great and peculiar value for all who wish to understand
the foundations of human knowledge, and the methods
by which it is acquired. For the student of geometry
acquires, with a degree of insight and clearness which
the unmathematical reader can but feebly imagine, a
conviction that there are necessary truths, many of them
of a very complex and striking character; and that a
few of the most simple and self-evident truths which it is
possible for the mind of man to apprehend, may, by
systematic deduction, lead to the most remote and unex­
pected results.
In pursuing such philosophical researches as that
in which we are now engaged, it is of great advantage
to the speculator to have cultivated to some extent the
study of geometry; since by this study he may become
fully aware of such features iu human knowledge as
those which we have mentioned. By the aid of the
lesson thus learned from the contemplation of geome­
trical truths, we have been endeavouring to establish
those further doctrines;—that these truths are but dif­
ferent aspects of the same Fundamental Idea, and that
the grounds of the necessity which these truths possess
reside in the Idea from which they flow, this Idea not
being a derivative result of experience, but its primar}*
rule. When the reader has obtained a clear and satis­
factory view of these doctrines, so far as they are appli­
cable to our knowledge concerning space, he has, we may
trust, overcome the main difficulty which will occur in
following the course of the speculations now presented
to him. He is then prepared to go forwards with us; to
see over how wide a field the same doctrines are appli­
cable: and how rich and various a harvest of knowledge
springs from these seemingly scanty principles.
Digitized by Google
DEFINITIONS AND AXIOMS RELATING TO SPACE. 101
But before we quit the subject now under our con­
sideration, we shall endeavour to answer some objections
which have been made to the views here presented; and
shall attempt to illustrate further the active powers which
we have ascribed to the mind.
C h a p t e r V.
O F SOME OBJECTIONS W H IC H H A V E B EEN
M ADE TO TH E DOCTRINES STATED
' IN T H E PREV IO U S C H A PT E R *.
T h e Edinburgh Review, No. cxxxv., contains a cri­
tique on a work termed The Mechanical Euclid, in which
opinions were delivered to nearly the same effect as some
of those stated in the last chapter, and in Chapter xi.
of the First Book. Although I believe that there are no
arguments used by the reviewer to which the answers
will not suggest themselves in the mind of any one who
has read with attention what has been said in the pre­
ceding chapters (except, perhaps, one or two remarks
which have reference to mechanical ideas), it may serve to
• In order to render the present chapter more intelligible, it may
be proper to state briefly the arguments which gave occasion to the
review. After noticing Stewart's assertions, that the certainty of matho^
matical reasoning arises from its depending upon definitions, and that
mathematical truth is hypothetical; I urged,—that no one has yet
been able to construct a system of mathematical truths by the aid of
definitions alone; that^i definition would not be admissible or appli­
cable except it agreed with a distinct conception in the mind; that the
definitions which we employ in mathematics are not arbitrary or hypo­
thetical, but necessary definitions; that if Stewart had taken as hia
examples of axioms the peculiar geometrical axioms, his assertions
.would have been obviously erroneous; and that the real foundation of
the truths of mathematics is the Idea of Space, which may be expressed
(for purposes of demonstration) partly by definitions and partly by
axioms. *
Digitized by Google
102 PHILOSOPHY OF THE PURE SCIENCES.
•illustrate the subject if I reply to the objections directly,
taking them as the reviewer has stated them.
1. I had dissented from Stewart’s assertion that
mathematical truth is hypothetical, or depends upon arbi­
trary definitions; since we understand by an hypothesis
a supposition, not only which we may make, but may
abstain from making, or may replace by a different sup­
position ; whereas the definitions and hypotheses of geo­
metry are necessarily such as they are, and cannot be
altered or excluded. The reviewer (p. 84), informs us
that he understands Stewart, when he speaks of hypo­
theses and definitions being the foundation of geometry,
to speak of the hypothesis that real objects correspond
to our geometrical definitions. a crystal be an exact
hexahedron, the geometrical properties of the hexahe­
dron may be predicated of that crystal.” To this I reply,
—that such hypotheses as this are the grounds of our
applications of geometrical truths to real objects, but
can in no way be said to be the foundation of the truths
themselves;—that I do not think that the sense which the
reviewer gives was Stewart’s meaning;— but that if it was,
this view of the use of mathematics does not at all affect
the question which both he and I proposed to discuss,
which was, the ground of mathematical certainty. I may
add, that whether a crystal be an exact hexahedron, is
a matter of observation and measurement, not of defini­
tion. I think the reader can have no difficulty in seeing
how little my doctrine is affected by the connexion on
which the reviewer thus insists. I have asserted that the
proposition which affirms the square on the diagonal of
a rectangle to be equal to the squares on two sides, does
not rest upon arbitrary hypotheses; the objector answers,
that the proposition that the square on the diagonal of
. thispage is equal to the squares on the sides, depends
: upon the arbitrary hypothesis that the page is a rect­
Digitized by Googk
ANSWER TO OBJECTIONS. 103
angle. Even if this fact were a matter of arbitrary
hypothesis, what could it have to do with the general
geometrical proposition? How could a single fact, ob­
served or hypothetical, affect a universal and necessary
truth, which would be equally true if the fact were false?
If there be nothing arbitrary or hypothetical in geometry
till we come to such steps in its application, it is plain
that the truths themselves are not hypothetical; which is
the question for us to decide.
2. The reviewer then (p. 85), considers the doctrine
that axioms as well as definitions are the foundations of
geometry; and here he strangely narrows and confuses
the discussion by making himselfthe advocate of Stewart,
instead of arguing the question itself. I had asserted
that some axioms are necessary as the foundations of
mathematical reasoning, in addition to the definitions.
If Stewart did not intend to discuss this question, I had
no concern with what he had said about axioms. But I
had every reason to believe that this was the question
which Stewart did intend to discuss. I conceive there is
no doubt that he intended to give an opinion upon the
grounds of mathematical reasoning in general. For he
begins his discussions (Elements, V
ol. n., p. 38) by
ing Reid’s opinion on this subject, which is stated gene­
rally; and he refers again to the same subject, asserting
in general terms, that the first principles of mathematics
áre not axioms but definitions. If, then, afterwards, he
made his proof narrower than his assertion;—if having
declared that no axioms are necessary, he afterwards
limited himself to showing that seven out of twelve of
Euclid’s axioms are barren truisms, it was no concern of
mine to contest this assertion, which left my thesis un­
touched. I had asserted that the proper geometrical
axioms (that two straight lines cannot inclose a space,
and the axiom about parallel lines), are indispensable iq
Digitized by Google
104 PHILOSOPHY OF THE PURE SCIENCES.
geometry. What account the reviewer gives of these
axioms we shall soon see; but if Stewart allowed them to
be axioms necessary to geometrical reasoning, he over­
turned his own assertion as to the foundations of such
reasoning; and if he said nothing decisive about these
axioms, which are the points on which the battle must
tpm, he left his assertion altogether unproved; nor was
it necessary for me to pursue the war into a barren and
unimportant corner, when the metropolis was surrendered.
The reviewer’s exultation that I have not contested the
first seven axioms is an amusing example of the self­
complacent zeal of advocacy.
3. But let us turn to the material point,—the proper
geometrical axioms. What is the reviewer’s account of
these? Which side of the alternative does he adopt?
Do they depend upon the definitions, and is he prepared
to show the dependence ? Or are they superfluous, and
can he erect the structure of geometry without their aid?
One of these two courses, it would seem, he must take.
For we both begin by asserting the excellence of geo­
metry as an example of demonstrated truth. It is
precisely this attribute which gives an interest to our
present inquiry. How, then, does the reviewer explain
this excellence on his views ? How does he reckon the
foundation courses of the edifice which we agree in con­
sidering as a perfect example of intellectual building ?
I presume I may take, as his answer to this question,
his hypothetical statement of what Stewart would have
said, (p. 87,) on the supposition that there had been,
among the foundations ofgeometry, self-evident indemon­
strable truths: although it is certainly strange that the
reviewer should not venture to make up his mind as to
the truth or falsehood of this supposition. If there were-
such truths they would be, he says, “ legitimate filiations”
of the definitions. They would be involved in the defi->
Digitized by Googk
ANSWER TO OBJECTIONS. 105
nitions. And again he speaks of the foundation of the
geometrical doctrine of parallels as a flaw, and as a
truth which requires, but has not received demonstration.
And yet again, he tells us that each of these supposed
axioms (Euclid’s twelfth, for instance), is “ merely an
indication of the point at which geometry fails to per­
form that which it undertakes to perform” (p. 91); and
that in reality her truths are not yet demonstrated. The
amount of this is, that the geometrical axioms are to be
held to be legitimatefiliations of the definitions, because
though certainly true, they cannot be proved from the
definitions; that they are involved in the definitions,
although they cannot be evolved out of them; and that
rather than admit that they have any other origin than
the definitions, we are to proclaim that geometry has
failed to perform what she undertakes to perform.
To this I reply—that I cannot understand what is
meant by “legitimate filiations” ofprinciples, ifthe phrase
not mean consequences of such principles established by
rigorous and formal demonstrations;—that the reviewer,
if he claims any real signification for his phrase, must
substantiate the meaning of it by such a demonstration;
he must establish his “ legitimate filiation” by a genea­
logical table in a satisfactory form. When this cannot
be done, to assert, notwithstanding, that the propositions
are involved in the definitions, is a mere begging the
question; and to excuse this defect by saying that geo­
metry fails to perform what she has promised, is to calum­
niate the character of that science which we profess to
make our standard, rather than abandon an arbitrary
and unproved assertion respecting the real grounds of
her excellence. I add, further, that if the doctrine of
parallel lines, or any other geometrical doctrine of which
we see the truth, with the most perfect insight of its
necessity, have not hitherto received demonstration to the
Digitized by Googk
1 0 6 PHILOSOPHY OF THE PURE SCIENCES.
satisfaction of any school of reasoners, the defect must
arise from their erroneous views of the nature of demon­
strations, and the grounds of mathematical certainty.
4. I conceive, then, that the reviewer has failed alto­
gether to disprove the doctrine that the axioms of geo­
metry are necessary as a part of the foundations of the
science. I had asserted further that these axioms supply
what the definitions leave deficient; and that they, along
with definitions, serve to present the idea of space under
such aspects that we can reason logically concerning it.
To this the reviewer opposes (p. 96) the common opinion
that a perfect definition is a complete explanation of a
name, and that the test of its perfection is, that we
may substitute the definition for the name wherever
it occurs. I reply, that my doctrine, that a definition
expresses a part, but not the whole, of the essential cha­
racters of an idea, is certainly at variance with an opinion
sometimes maintained, that a definition merely explains
a word, and should explain it so fully that it may always
replace it. The error of this common opinion may, I think,
be shown from considerations such as these;—that if we
undertake to explain one word by several, we may be
called upon, on the same ground, to explain each of these
several by others, and that in this way we can reach no
limit nor resting-place;—that in point of fact, it is not
found to lead to clearness, but to obscurity, when in the
discussion of general principles, we thus substitute defi­
nitions for single terms;—that even if this be done, we
cannot reason without conceiving what the terms mean;
—and that, in doing this, the relations of our concep­
tions, and not the arbitrary equivalence of two forms of
expression, are the foundations of our reasoning.
5. The reviewer conceives that some of the so-called
axioms are really definitions. The axiom, that “ magni­
tudes which coincide with each other, that is, which fill
Digitized by Google
ANSWER TO OBJECTIONS. 107
the same space, are equal,” is a definition of geometrical
equality: the axiom, that “the whole is greater than its
part,” is a definition of whole and But surely there
are very serious objections to this view. It would seem
more natural to say, if the former axiom is a definition
of the word e
q
u
a
l,that the latter is a definition of the
word g
r
e
a
t
e
r
. And how can one short phrase define two
terms ? If I say, “ the heat of summer is greater than
the heat of winter,” does this assertion define anything,
though the proposition is perfectly intelligible and dis­
tinct? I think, then, that this attempt to reduce' these
axioms to definitions is quite untenable.
6. I have stated that a definition can be of no use,
except we can conceive the possibility and truth of the
property connected with it; and that if we do conceive
this, we may rightly begin our reasonings by stating the
property as an axiom; which Euclid does, in the case of
straight lines and of parallels. The reviewer inquires,
(p. 92,) whether I am prepared to extend this doctrine to
the case of circles, for which the reasoning is usually
rested upon the definition;—whether I would replace this
definition by an axiom, asserting the possibility of such a
circle. To this I might reply, that it is not at all incum­
bent upon me to assent to such a change; for I have all
along stated that it is indifferent whether the fundamen­
tal properties from which we reason be exhibited as defi­
nitions or as axioms, provided their necessity be clearly
seen. But I am ready to declare that I think the form
of our geometry would be not at all the worse, if, instead
of the usual definition of a circle,—“ that it is a figure
contained by one line, which is called the circumference,
and which is such, that all straight lines drawn from a
certain point within the circumference are equal to one
another,”—we were to substitute an axiom and a defini­
tion, as follows:—
Digitized by Googk
108 PHILOSOPHY OF THE PURE SCIENCES.
' Axiom. If a line be drawn so as to be at every point
equally distant from a certain point, this line will return
into itself, or will be one line including a space.
Definition. The space is called a circle, the line the
circumference, and the point the center.
And this being done, it would be true, as the reviewer
remarks, that geometry cannot stir one step without
resting on an axiom. And I do not at all hesitate to say,
that the above axiom, expressed or understood, is no less
necessary than the definition, and is tacitly assumed in
every"proposition into which circles enter.
7. I have, I think, now disposed of the principal
objections which bear upon the proper axioms of geo­
metry. The principles which are stated as the first seven
axioms of Euclid’s Elements, need not, as I have said, be
here discussed. They are principles which refer, not to
Space in particular, but to Quantity in general: such,
for instance, as these; “ If equals be added to equals the
wholes are equal;”— “If equals be taken from equals
the remainders are equal.” But I will make an obser­
vation or two upon them before I proceed.
Both Locke and Stewart have spoken of these axioms
as barren truisms: as propositions from which it is not
possible to deduce a single inference: and the reviewer
asserts that they are not first principles, but laws of
thought, (p. 88.) To this last expression I am willing
to assent; but I would add, that not only these, but all
the principles which express the fundamental conditions
of our knowledge, may with equal propriety be termed
laws of thought; for these principles depend upon our
ideas, and regulate the active operations of the mind, by
which coherence and connexion are given to its passive
impressions. But the assertion that no conclusions can
be drawn from simple axioms, or laws of human thought,
which regard quantity, is by no means true. The whole
Digitized by Googk
ANSWER TO OBJECTIONS. 109
of arithmetic,— for instance, the rules for the multiplica­
tion and division of large numbers, for finding a common
measure, and, in short, a vast body of theory respecting
numbers,—rests upon no other foundation than such
axioms as have been just noticed, that if equals be added
to equals the wholes will be equal. And even when
Locke’s assertion, that from these axioms no truths can
be deduced, is modified by Stewart and the reviewer,
and limited to geometrical truths, it is hardly tenable
(although, in fact, it matters little to our argument
whether it is or no). For the greater part of the Seventh
Book of Euclid’s Elements, (on Commensurable and In­
commensurable Quantities,) and the Fifth Book, (on
Proportion,) depend upon these axioms, with the addi­
tion only of the definition or axiom (for it may be stated
either way) which expresses the idea of proportionality
in numbers. So that the attempt to disprove the neces­
sity and use of axioms, as principles of reasoning, fails
even when we take those instances which the opponents
consider as the more manifestly favourable to their
doctrine.
8. But perhaps the question may have already sug­
gested itself to the reader’s mind, of what use can it be
formally to state such principles as these, (for example,
that if equals be added to equals the wholes are equal,)
since, whether stated or no, they will be assumed in our
reasoning? And how can such principles be said to be
necessary, when our proof proceeds equally well without
any reference to them? And the answer is, that it is
precisely because these are the common principles of
reasoning, which we naturally employ without specially
contemplating them, that they require to be separated
from the other steps and formally stated, when we
analyze the demonstrations which we have obtained
In every mental process many principles are combined
Digitized by Googk
110 PHILOSOPHY OF THE PURE SCIENCES.
and abbreviated, and thus in some measure concealed
and obscured. In analyzing these processes, the combi­
nation must be resolved, and the abbreviation expanded,
and thus the appearance is presented of a pedantic and
superfluous formality. But that which is superfluous for
proof, is necessary for the analysis of proof. In order to
exhibit the conditions of demonstration distinctly, they
must be exhibited formally. In the same manner, in
demonstration we do not usually express every step in
the form of a syllogism, but we see the grounds of the
conclusiveness of a demonstration, by resolving it into
syllogisms. Neither axioms nor syllogisms are necessary
for conviction; but they are necessary to display the
conditions under which conviction becomes inevitable.
The application of a single one of the axioms just spoken
of is so minute a step in the proof, that it appears pe­
dantic to give it a marked place; but the very essence
of demonstration consists in this, that it is composed of
an indissoluble succession of such minute steps. The
admirable circumstance is, that by the accumulation of
such apparently imperceptible advances, we can in the
end make so vast and so sure a progress. The com­
pleteness of the analysis of our knowledge appears in the
smallness of the elements into which it is thus resolved.
The minuteness of any of these elements of truth, of
axioms for instance, does not prevent their being as
essential as others which are more obvious. And any
attempt to assume one kind of element only, when the
course of our analysis brings before us two or more
kinds, is altogether unphilosophical. Axioms and defi­
nitions are the proximate constituent principles of our
demonstrations; and the intimate bond which connects
together a definition and an axiom on the same subject
is not truly expressed by asserting the latter to be de­
rived from the former. This bond of connexion exists
Digitized by Googk
OF THE PERCEPTION OF SPACE. I ll
in the mind of the reasoner, in his conception of to
which both definition and axiom refer, and consequently
in the general Fundamental Idea of which that concep­
tion is a modification.
Chapter VI.
O F T H E P E R C E PT IO N OF SPACE.
1. According to the views above explained, certain
of the impressions of our senses convey to us the per­
ception of objects as existing in space; inasmuch as by
the constitution of our minds we cannot receive those
impressions otherwise than in a certain form, involving
such a manner of existence. But the question deserves
to be asked, What are the impressions of sense by which
we thus become acquainted with space and its relations ?
And as we have seen that this idea of space implies an
act of the mind as well as an impression on the sense,
what manifestations do we find of this activity of the
mind, in our observation of the external world ?
It is evident that sight and touch are the senses by
which the relations of space are perceived, principally or
entirely. It does not appear that an odour, or a feeling
of warmth or cold, would, independently of experience,
suggest to us the conception of a space surrounding us.
But when we see objects, we see that they are extended
and occupy space; when we touch them, we feel that
they are in a space in which we also are. We have
before our eyes any object, for instance, a board covered
with geometrical diagrams; and we distinctly perceive,
by vision, those lines of which the relations are the
subjects of our mathematical reasoning. Again, we see
before us a solid object, a cubical box for instance; we
see that it is within reach; we stretch out the hand and
Digitized by Google
112 PHILOSOPHY OE THE PURE SCIENCES.
perceive by the touch that it has sides, edges, corners,
which we had already perceived by vision.
2. Probably most persons do not generally appre­
hend that there is any material difference in these two
cases;—that there are any different acts of mind con­
cerned in perceiving by sight a mathematical diagram
upon paper, and a solid cube lying on a table. Yet it is
not difficult to show that, in the latter case at least, the
perception of the shape of the object is not immediate.
A very little attention teaches us that there is an act of
judgment as well as a mere impression of sense requisite,
in order that we may see any solid object. For there is
no visible appearance which is inseparably connected
with solidity. If a picture of a cube be rightly drawn in
perspective and skilfully shaded, the impression upon the
sense is the same as if it were a real cube. The picture
may be mistaken for a solid object. But it is clear that,
in this case, the solidity is given to the object by an act
of mental judgment. All that is seen is outline and
shade, figures and colours on a flat board. The solid
angles and edges, the relation of the faces of the figure
by which they form a cube, are matters of inference.
This, which is evident in the case of the pictured cube, is
true in all vision whatever. We see a scene before us
on which are various figures and colours, but the eye
cannot see more. It sees length and breadth, but no
third dimension. In order to know that there are solids,
we must infer as well as see. And this we do readily
and constantly; so familiarly, indeed, that we do not
perceive the operation. Yet we may detect this latent
process in many ways; for instance, by attending to
cases in which the habit of drawing such inferences mis­
leads us. Most persons have experienced this delusion
in looking at a scene in a theatre, and especially that
kind of scene which is called a diorama, when the
Digitized by Google
OF THE PERCEPTION OF SPACE. 113
interior of a building is represented. In these cases,
the perspective representations of the various members
of the architecture and decoration impress us almost
irresistibly with the conviction that we have before us a
space of great extent and complex form, instead of a flat
painted canvass. Here, at least, the space is our own
creation, but yet here, it is manifestly created by the
same act of thought as if we were really in the palace or
the cathedral of which the halls and aisles thus seem to
inclose us. And the act by which we thus create space
of three dimensions out of visible extent of length and
breadth, is constantly and imperceptibly going on. We
are perpetually interpreting in this manner the language
of the visible world. From the appearances of things
which we directly see, we are constantly inferring that
which we cannot directly see,—their distance from us,
and the position of their parts.
3. The characters which we thus interpret are
various. They are, for instance, the visible forms,
colours, and shades of the parts, understood according
to the maxims of perspective; (for of perspective every
one has a practical knowledge, as every one has of
grammar;) the effort by which we fix both our eyes on
the same object, and adjust each eye to distinct vision;
and the like. The right interpretation of the informa­
tion which such circumstances give us respecting the
true forms and distances of things, is gradually learned;
the lesson being begun in our earliest infancy, and
inculcated upon us every hour during which we use our
eyes. The completeness with which the lesson is mas­
tered is truly admirable; for we forget that our con­
clusion is obtained indirectly, and mistake a judgment
on evidence for an intuitive perception. We see the
breadth of the street, as clearly and readily as we see
the house on the other side of it; and we see the house
VOL. i. w \ p. I
Digitized by Googk
114 PHILOSOPHY OF THK PURK SCIENCES.
to be square, however obliquely it be presented to us.
This, however, by no means throws any doubt or diffi­
culty on the doctrine that in all these cases we do inter­
pret and infer. The rapidity of the process, and the
unconsciousness of the effort, are not more remarkable
in this case than they are when we understand the
meaning of the speech which we hear, or of the book
which we read. In these latter cases we merely hear
noises or see black marks; but we make, out of these
elements, thought and feeling, without being aware of
the act by which we do so. And by an exactly similar
process we see a variously-coloured expanse, and collect
from it a space occupied by solid objects. In both
cases the act of interpretation is become so habitual
that we can hardly stop short at the mere impression
of sense.
4. But yet there are various ways in which we may
satisfy ourselves that these two parts of the process of
seeing objects are distinct. To separate these operations
is precisely the task which the artist has to execute in
making a drawing of what he sees. He has to recover
the consciousness of his real and genuine sensations, and
to discern the lines of objects as they appear. This at
first he finds difficult; for he is tempted to draw what
he knows of the forms of visible objects, and not what
he sees: but as he improves in his art, he learns to put
on paper what he sees only, separated from what he
infers, in order that thus the inference, and with it a
conception like that of the reality, may be left to the
spectator. And thus the natural process of vision is the
habit of seeing that which cannot be seen; and the diffi­
culty of the art of drawing consists in learning not to
see more than is visible.
5. But again; even in the simplest drawing we
exhibit something which we do not see. However
Digitized by Googk
OF THE PERCEPTION OF SPACE. 115
slight is our representation of objects, it contains some­
thing which we create for ourselves. For we draw an
outline. Now an outline has no existence in nature.
There are no visible lines presented to the eye by a
group of figures. We separate each figure from the rest,
and the boundary by which we do this is the outline of
the figure; and the like may be said of each member of
every figure. A painter of our own times has made this
remark in a work upon his art*. “The effect which
natural objects produce upon our sense of vision is that
of a number of parts, or distinct masses of form and
colour, and not of lines. But when we endeavour to
represent by painting the objects which are before us, or
which invention supplies to our minds, the first and the
simplest means we resort to is this picture, by which we
separate the form of each object from those that sur­
round it, marking its boundary, the extreme extent of
its dimensions in every direction, as impressed on our
vision: and this is termed drawing its outline.”
6. Again, there are other ways in which we see clear
manifestations of the act of thought by which we assign
to the parts of objects their relations in space, the im­
pressions of sense being merely subservient to this act.
If we look at a medal through a glass which inverts it,
we see the figures upon it become concave depressions
instead of projecting convexities; for the light which
illuminates the nearer side of the convexity will be trans­
ferred to the opposite side by the apparent inversion of
the medal, and will thus ipaply a hollow in which the
side nearest the light gathers the shade. Here our deci­
sion as to which part is nearest to us, has reference to
the side from which the light comes. In other cases
the decision is more spontaneous. If we draw black
outlines, such as represent the edges of a cube seen
* Phillips On Painting.
I 2
Digitized by Googk
in perspective, certain of the lines will cross each other;
and we may make this cube appear to assume two dif­
ferent positions, by determining in our own mind that
the lines which belong to one end of the cube shall be
understood to be before or to be behind those which
they cross. Here an act of the will, operating upon the
same sensible image, gives us two cubes, occupying two
entirely different positions. Again, many persons may
have observed that when a windmill in motion at a dis­
tance from us, (so that the outline of the sails only is
seen,) stands obliquely to the eye, we may, by an effort
of thought, make the obliquity assume one or the other
of two positions; and as we do this, the sails, which ia
one instance appear to turn from right to left, in the other
case turn from left to right. A person a little familiar
with this mental effort, can invert the motion as often as
he pleases, so long as the conditions of form and light
do not offer a manifest contradiction to either position.
Thus we have these abundant and various manifesta­
tions of the activity of the mind, in the process by which
we collect from vision the relations of solid space of three
dimensions. But we must further make some remarks
on the process by which we perceive mere visible figure;
and also, on the mode in which we perceive the relations
of space by the touch; and first, of the latter subject.
7. The opinion above illustrated, that our sight does
not give us a direct knowledge of the relations of solid
space, and that this knowledge is acquired only by an
inference of the mind, was first clearly taught by the
celebrated Bishop Berkeley*, and is a doctrine now
generally assented to by metaphysical speculators.
But does the sense of touch give us directly a know­
ledge of space ? This is a question which has attracted
considerable notice in recent times; and new light has
* Theory of Vision.
11G PHILOSOPHY OF THE PUKE SCIENCES.
Digitized by Googk
OF THE PERCEPTION OF SPACE. 117
been thrown upon it in a degree which is very remark­
able, when we consider that the philosophy of perception
has been a prominent subject of inquiry from the earliest
times. Two philosophers, advancing to this inquiry from
different sides, the one a metaphysician, the other a phy­
siologist, have independently arrived at the conviction
that the long current opinion, according to which we
acquire a knowledge of space by the sense of touch, is
erroneous. And the doctrine which they teach instead
of the ancient errour, has a very important bearing upon
the principle which we are endeavouring to establish,—
that our knowledge of space and its properties is derived
rather from the active operations than from the passive
impressions of the percipient mind.
Undoubtedly the persuasion that we acquire a know­
ledge of form by the touch is very obviously suggested
by our common habits. If we wish to know the form of
any body in the dark, or to correct the impressions con­
veyed by sight, when we suspect them to be false, we
have only, it seems to us, at least at first, to stretch forth
the hand and touch the object; and we learn its shape
with no chance of error. In these cases, form appears
to be as immediate a perception of the sense of touch,
as colour is of the sense of sight.
8. But is this perception really the result of the
passive sense of touch merely ? Against such an opinion
Dr. Brown, the metaphysician of whom I speak, urges*
that the feeling of touch alone, when any object is ap­
plied to the hand, or any other part of the body, can no
more convey the conception of form or extension, than
the sensation of an odour or a taste can do, except we
have already some knowledge of the relative position of
the parts of our bodies; that is, except we are already in
possession of an idea of space, and have, in our minds,
• Lectures, Vol. I. p. 459, (1824).
Digitized by Googk
118 PHILOSOPHY OF THE PUBE SCIENCES.
referred our limbs to their positions; which is to sup­
pose the conception of form already acquired.
9. By what faculty then do we originally acquire our
conceptions of the relations of position ? Brown answers
by the muscular sense; that is, by the conscious exer­
tions of the various muscles by which we move our limbs.
When we feel out the form and position of bodies by
the hand, our knowledge is acquired, not by the mere
touch of the body, but by perceiving the course the
fingers must take in order to follow the surface of the
body, or to pass from one body to another. We are
conscious of the slightest of the volitions by which we
thus feel out form and place; we know whether we move
the finger to the right or left, up or down, to us or from
us, through a large or a small space; and all these con­
scious acts are bound together and regulated in our
minds by an idea of an extended space in which they are
performed. That this idea of space is not borrowed from
the sight, and transferred to the muscular feelings by
habit, is evident. For a man born blind can feel out his
way with his staff, and has his conceptions of position
determined by the conditions of space, no less than one
who has the use of his eyes. And the muscular con­
sciousness which reveals to us the position of objects an<J
parts of objects, when we feel them out by means of the
hand, shews itself in a thousand other ways, and in all
our limbs: for our habits of standing, walking, and all
other attitudes and motions, are regulated by our feeling
of our position and that of surrounding objects. And
thus, we cannot touch any object without learning some­
thing respecting its position; not that the sense of
touch directly conveys such knowledge; but we have
already learnt, from the muscular sense, constantly
exercised, the position of the limb which the object thus
touches.
Digitized by Googk
OF THE PERCEPTION OF SPACE. 119
10. The justice of this distinction will, I think, be
assented to by all persons who attend steadily to the
process itself and might be maintained by many forcible
reasons. Perhaps one of the most striking evidences in
its favour is that, as I have already intimated, it is the
opinion to which another distinguished philosopher, Sir
Charles Bell, has been led, reasoning entirely upon phy­
siological principles. From his researches it resulted
that besides the nerves which convey the impulse of the
will from the brain to the muscle, by which every motion
of our limbs is produced, there is another set of nerves
which carry back to the brain a sense of the condition
of the muscle, and thus regulate its activity; and give us
the consciousness of our position and relation to sur­
rounding objects. The motion of the hand and fingers,
or the consciousness of this motion, must be combined
with the sense of touch properly so called, in order to
make an inlet to the knowledge of such relations. This
consciousness of muscular exertion, which he has called a
sixth sense*, is our guide, Sir.C. Bell shows, in the com­
mon practical government of our motions; and he states
that having given this explanation of perception as a
physiological doctrine, he had afterwards with satisfac­
tion seen it confirmed by Dr. Brown’s speculations.
11. Thus it appears that our consciousness of the
relations of space is inseparably and fundamentally con­
nected with our own actions in space. We perceive only
while we act; our sensations require to be interpreted by
our volitions. The apprehension of extension and figure
is far from being a process in which we are inert and
passive. We draw lines with our fingers; we construct
surfaces by curving our hands; we generate spaces by the
motion of our arms. When the geometer bids us form
lines, or surfaces, or solids by motion, he intends his
* Bridgewater Treatise, p. 195. Phil Trans. 182(5, Pt. ii., p. 167.
Digitized by Googk
injunction to be taken as hypothetical only; we need only
conceive such motions. But yet this hypothesis repre­
sents truly the origin of our knowledge; we perceive
spaces by motion at first, as we conceive spaces by motion
afterwards:—or if not always by actual motion, at least
by potential. If we perceive the length of a staff by
holding its two ends in our two hands without running
the finger along it, this is because by habitual motion we
have already acquired a measure of the distance of our
hands in any attitude of which we are conscious. Even
in the simplest case, our perceptions are derived not from
the touch, but from the sixth sense; and this sixth sense
at least, whatever may be the case with the other five,
implies an active mind along with the passive sense.
12. Upon attentive consideration, it will be clear
that a large portion of the perceptions respecting space
which appear at first to be obtained by sight alone, are,
in fact, acquired by means of this sixth sense. Thus we
consider the visible sky as a single surface surrounding
us and returning into itself, and thus forming a hemi­
sphere. But such a mode of conceiving an object of vision
could never have occurred to us, if we had not been able
to turn our heads, to follow this surface, to pursue it till
we find it returning into itself. And when we have done
this, we necessarily present it to ourselves as a concave
inclosure within which we are. The sense of sight alone,
without the power of muscular motion, could not have
led us to view the sky as a vault or hemisphere. Under
such circumstances, we should have perceived only what
was presented to the eye in one position; and if dif­
ferent appearances had been presented in succession, we
could not have connected them as parts of the same
picture, for want of any perception of their relative posi­
tion. They would have been so many detached and
incoherent visual sensations. The muscular sense con­
120 PHILOSOPHY OF THE PUKE SCIENCES.
Digitized by Googk
OF THE PERCEPTION OF SPACE. 121
nects their parts into a whole, making them to be only
different portions of one universal scene*.
13. These considerations point out the fallacy of a
very curious representation made by Dr. Reid, of the
convictions to which man would be led, if he possessed
vision without the sense of touch. To illustrate this sub­
ject, Reid uses the fiction of a nation whom he terms the
Idomenians, who have no sense except that of sight. He
describes their notions of the relations of space as being
entirely different from ours. The axioms of their geome­
try are quite contradictory to our axioms. For example,
it is held to be self-evident among them that two straight
lines which intersect each other once, must intersect a
second time; that the three angles of any triangle are
greater than two right angles; and the like. These
paradoxes are obtained by tracing the relations of lines
on the surface of a concave sphere, which surrounds the
spectator, and on which all visible appearances may be
supposed to be presented to him. But from what is said
above it appears that the notion of such a sphere, and
such a connexion of visible objects which are seen in dif­
ferent directions, cannot be arrived at by sight alone.
• It has been objected to this view, that we might obtain a con­
ception of the sky as a hemisphere, by being ourselves turned round, (as
on a music-stool, for instance,) and thus seeing in succession all parts of
the sky. But this assertion I conceive to be erroneous. By being thus
turned round, we should soe a number of pictures which we should put
together as parts of a plane picture; and wherf we came round to the
original point, we should have no possible means of deciding that it
was the same point: it would appear only as a repetition of the pic­
ture. That sight, of itself, can give us only a plane picture, the doctrine
of Berkeley, appears to be indisputable; and, no less so, the doctrine
that it is the consciousness of our own action in space which puts toge­
ther these pictures so that they cover the surface of a solid body. Wo
can see length and breadth with our eyes, but we must thrust out our
arm towards the flat surface, in order that we may, in our thoughts,
combine a third dimension with the other two.
Digitized by Google
122 PHILOSOPHY OF THE PURE SCIENCES.
When the spectator combines in his conception the rela­
tions of long-drawn lines and large figures, as he sees
them by turning his head to the right and to the left,
upwards and downwards, he ceases to be an Idomenian.
And thus our conceptions of the properties of space, de­
rived through the exercise of one mode of perception,
are not at variance with those obtained in another wav;
but all such conceptions, however produced or suggested,
are in harmony with each other; being, as has already
been said, only different aspects of the same idea.
14. If our perceptions of the position of objects
around us do not depend on the sense of vision alone,
but on the muscular feeling brought into play when we
turn our head, it will obviously follow that the same is
true when we turn the eye instead of the head. And
thus we may learn the form of objects, not by looking
at them with a fixed gaze, but by following the boundary
of them with the eye. While the head is held perfectly
still, the eye can rove along the outlines of visible ob­
jects, scrutinize each point in succession, and leap from
one point to another; each such act being accompanied
by a muscular consciousness which makes us aware of
the direction in which the look is travelling. And we
may thus gather information concerning the figures and
places which we trace out with the visual ray, as the
blind man learns the forms of things which he traces out
with his staff, being conscious of the motions of his hand.
15. This view of the mode in which the eye per­
ceives position, which is thus supported by the analogy
of other members employed for the same purpose, is
further confirmed by Sir Charles Bell by physiological
reasons. He teaches us that * when an object is seen we
employ two senses: there is an impression on the retina;
but we receive also the idea of position or relation in
* Phil. Trans.. 1823. On the Motions of the Eye.
Digitized by Google
OF THE PERCEPTION OF SPACE. 1*3
space, which it is not the office of the retina to give, by
our consciousness of the efforts of the voluntary muscles
of the eye: and he has traced in detail the course of the
nerves by which these muscles convey their information.
The constant searching motion of the eye, as he terras
it*, is the means by which we become aware of the
position of objects about us.
16. It is not to our present purpose to follow the
physiology of this subject; but we may notice that Sir
C. Bell has examined the special circumstances which
belong to this operation of the eye. We learn from him
that the particular point of the eye which thus traces the
forms of visible objects is a part of the retina which has
been termed the sensible spot; being that part which is
most distinctly sensible to the impressions of light and
colour. This part, indeed, is not a spot of definite size and
form, for it appears that proceeding from a certain point
of the retina, the distinct sensibility diminishes on every
side by degrees. And the searching motion of the eye
arises from the desire which we instinctively feel of re­
ceiving upon the sensible spot the image of the object
to which the attention is directed. We are uneasy and
* Bridgewater Treatise, p.282. I have adopted, in writing the
above, the views and expressions of Sir Charles Bell. The essential
part of the doctrine there presented is, that the eye constantly makes
efforts to turn, so that the image of an object to which our attention is
drawn, shall fall upon a certain particular point of the retina; and that
when the image falls upon any other point, the eye turns away from
this oblique into the direct position. Other writers have maintained
that the eye thus turns, not because the point on which the image falls
in direct vision is the most sensible point, but that it is the point of
greatest distinctness of vision. They urge that a small star, which dis­
appears when the eye is turned full upon it, may often be seen by
looking a little away from it: and hence, they infer that the parts of
the retina removed from the spot of direct vision, are more sensible than
it is. The facts are very curious, however they be explained, but they
do not disturb the doctrine delivered in the text.
Digitized by Googk
124 PHILOSOPHY OF THE PURE SCIENCES.
impatient till the eye is turned so that this is effected.
And as our attention is transferred from point to point
of the scene before us, the eye, and this point of the eye
in particular, travel along with the thoughts; and the
muscular sense, which tells us of these movements of
the organ of vision, conveys to us a knowledge of the
forms and places which we thus successively survey.
17. Ilow much of activity there is in the process by
which we perceive the outlines of objects appears further
from the language by which we describe their forms.
We apply to them not merely adjectives of form, but
verbs of motion. An abrupt hill starts out of the plain;
a beautiful figure has a gliding outline. We have
The windy summit, wild and high,
Roughly rushing on the sky.
These terms express the course of the eye as it follows
the lines by which such forms are bounded and marked.
In like manner another modern poet* says of Soracte,
that it
From out the plain
Heaves like a long-swept wave about to break,
And on the curl hangs pausing.
Thus the muscular sense, which is inseparably con­
nected with an act originating in our own mind, not only
gives us all that portion of our perceptions of space in
which we use the sense of touch, but also, at least in a
great measure, another large portion of such perceptions,
in which we employ the sense of sight. As we have
before seen that our knowledge of solid space and its
properties is not conceivable in any other way than as
the result of a mental act, governed by conditions depend­
ing on its own nature; so it now appears that our per­
ceptions of visible figure are not obtained without an act
performed under the same conditions. The sensations
of touch and sight are subordinated to an idea which is
* Byron, Ck. Har. vi., st 75.
Digitized by Googk
OF THE PERCEPTION OK SPACE. 125
the basis of our speculative knowledge concerning space
and its relations; and this same idea is disclosed to our
consciousness by its practically regulating our inter­
course with the external world.
By considerations such as have been adduced and
referred to, it is proved beyond doubt, that in a great
number of cases our knowledge of fonn and position is
acquired from the muscular sense, and not from sight
directly:—for instance, in all cases in which we have
before us objects so large and prospects so extensive
that we cannot see the whole of them in one position of
the eye*.
We now quit the consideration of the properties of
Space, and consider the Idea of Time.
Chapter VII.
O F T H E I D E A O F T I M E .
1. Respecting the Idea of Time, we may make
several of the same remarks which we made concerning
* The expression in the first edition was “ large objects and exten­
sive spaces." In the text as now given, I state a definite size and
extent, within which the sight by itself can judge of position and figure.
The doctrine that we require the assistance of the muscular sense to
enable us to perceive space of three dimensions, is not at all inconsistent
with this other doctrine, that within the space which is seen by the
fixed eye, we perceive the relative positions of points directly by vision,
and that, consequently, we have a perception of visibletfigure.
Sir Charles Bell has said, (Phil, Trans, 1823, p. 181,) “ It appears
to me that the utmost ingenuity will be at a loss to devise an explana­
tion of that power by which the eye becomes acquainted with the
position and relation of objects, if the sense of muscular activity be
excluded which accompanies the motion of the eyeball.” But surely we
should have no difficulty In perceiving the relation of the sides and
angles of a small triangle, placed before the eye, even if the muscles of
the eyeball were severed. This subject is resumed B. iv. c. ii. sect. 11.
Digitized by Google
126 PHILOSOPHY OF THE PURE SCIENCES.
the idea of space, in order to shew that it is not bor­
rowed from experience, but is a bond of connexion
among the impressions of sense, derived from a peculiar
activity of the mind, and forming a foundation both of
our experience and of our speculative knowledge.
Time is not a notion obtained by experience. Expe­
rience, that is, the impressions of sense and our con­
sciousness of our thoughts, gives us various percep­
tions; and different successive perceptions considered
together exemplify the notion of change. But this very
connexion of different perceptions,—this successiveness,
—presupposes that the perceptions exist in time. That
things happen either together, or one after the other, is
intelligible only by assuming time as the condition under
which they are presented to us.
Thus time is a necessary condition in the presentation
of all occurrences to our minds. We cannot conceive
this condition to be taken away. We can conceive
time to go on while nothing happens in it ; but we can­
not conceive anything to happen while time does not
go on.
It is clear from this that time is not an impression
derived from experience, in the same manner in which
we derive from experience our information concerning
the objects which exist, and the occurrences which take
place in time. The objects of experience can easily be
conceived to be, or not to be:—to be absent as well as
present. Time always is, and always is present, and
even in our thoughts we cannot form the contrary sup­
position.
2. Thus time is something distinct from the matter
or substance of our experience, and may be considered
as a necessary form.which that matter (the experience of
change) must assume, in order to be an object of con­
templation to the mind. Time is one of the necessary
Digitized by Google
OP THE IDEA OF TIME. 127
conditions under which we apprehend the information
which our senses and consciousness give us. By con­
sidering time as a form which belongs to our power of
apprehending occurrences and changes, and under which
alone all such experience can be accepted by the mind,
we explain the necessity, which we find to exist, of con­
ceiving all such changes as happening in time; and we
thus see that time is not a property perceived as existing
in objects, or as conveyed to us by our senses; but a con­
dition impressed upon our knowledge by the constitution
of the mind itself; involving an act of thought as well as
an impression of sense.
3. We showed that space is an idea of the mind, or
form of our perceiving power, independent of experience,
by pointing out that we possess necessary and universal
truths concerning the relations of space, which could
never be given by means of experience; but of which
the necessity is readily conceivable, if we suppose them
to have for their basis the constitution of the mind.
There exist also respecting number, many truths abso­
lutely necessary, entirely independent of experience and
anterior to it; and so far as the conception of number
depends upon the idea of time, the same argument might
be used to show that the idea of time is not derived from
experience, but is a result of the native activity of the
mind: but we shall defer all views of this kind till we
come to the consideration of Number.
4. Some persons have supposed that we obtain the
notion of time from the perception of motion. But it
is clear that the perception of motion, that is, change of
place, presupposes the conception of time, and is not
capable of being presented to the mind in any other way.
If we contemplate the same body as being in different
places at different times, and connect these observations,
we have the conception of motion, which thus presup­
Digitized by Google
1 2 8 PHILOSOPHY OF THE PURE SCIENCES.
poses the necessary conditions that existence in time
implies. And thus we see that it is possible there should
be necessary truths concerning all motion, and conse­
quently, concerning those motions which are the objects
of experience; but that the source of this necessity is the
Ideas of time and space, which, being universal conditions
of knowledge residing in the mind, afford a foundation
for necessary truths.
Chapter VIII.
OF SOME PECULIARITIES OF THE IDEA OF TIME.
1. TnE Idea of Time, like the Idea of Space, offers to
our notice some characters which do not belong to our
fundamental ideas generally, but which are deserving of
remark. These characters are, in some respects, closely
similar with regard to time and to space, while, in other
respects, the peculiarities of these two ideas are widely
different. We shall point out some of these characters.
Time is not a general abstract notion collected from
experience; as, for example, a certain general concep­
tion of the relations of things. For we do not consider
particular times as examples of Time in general, (as we
consider particular causes to be examples of Cause,) but
we conceive all particular times to be parts of a single
and endless Time. This continually-flowing and endless
time is what offers itself to us when we contemplate any
series of occurrences. All actual and possible times
exist as Parts, in this original and general Time. And
since all particular times are considered as derivable
from time in general, it is manifest that the notion of
time in general cannot be derived from the notions of
particular times. The notion of time in general is there­
Digitized by Google
fore not a general conception gathered from experi­
ence.
2. Time is infinite. Since all actual and possible
times exist in the general course of time, this general
time must be infinite. All limitation merely divides,
and does not terminate, the extent of absolute time.
Time has no beginning and no end; but the beginning
and the end of every other existence takes place in it.
3. Time, like space, is not only a form of perception,
but of intuition. We contemplate events as taking
place in time. We consider its parts as added to one
another, and events as filling a larger or smaller extent
of such parts. The time which any event takes up is
the sum of all such parts, and the relation of the same
to time is fully understood when we can clearly see what
portions of time it occupies, and what it does not.
Thus the relation of known occurrences to time is
perceived by intuition; and time is a form of intuition
of the external world.
4. Time is conceived as a quantity of one dimension;
it has great analogy with a line, but none at all with a
surface or solid. Time may be considered as consisting
of a series of instants, which are before and after one
another; and they have no other relation than this, of
before and after. Just the same would be the case with
a series of points taken along a line; each would be
after those on one side of it, and before those on another.
Indeed the analogy between time, and space of one
dimension, is so close, that the same terms are applied to
both ideas, and we hardly know to which they originally
belong. Times and lines are alike called long and short;
we speak of the beginning and end of a line; of a point .
of time, and of the limits of a portion of duration.
5. But, as has been said, there is nothing in time
which corresponds to more than one dimension in space,
VOL. i. w. p. K
SOME PECULIARITIES OF THE IDEA OF TIME. 129.
Digitized by Google
130 PHILOSOPHY OF THE PURE SCIENCES.
and hence nothing which has any obvious analogy with
figure. Time resembles a line indefinitely extended both
ways; all partial times are portions of this line; and no
mode of conceiving time suggests to us a line making
any angle with the original line, or any other combina­
tion which might give rise to figures of any kind. The
analogy between time and space, which in many circum­
stances is so clear, here disappears altogether. Spaces
of two and of three dimensions, planes and solids, have
nothing to which we can compare them in the concep­
tions arising out of time.
6. As figure is a conception solely appropriate to
space, there is also a conception which peculiarly belongs
to time, namely, the conception of recurrence of times
similarly marked; or, as it may be termed, ,
using this word in a general sense. The term rhythm
is most commonly used to designate the recurrence of
times marked by the syllables of a verse, or the notes of
a melody: but it is easy to see that the general concep­
tion of such a recurrence does not depend on the mode
in which it is impressed upon the sense. The forms of
such recurrence are innumerable. Thus in such a line as
QufSdrupedfSnte putrim sonitu quatit ungula cfimpum,
we have alternately one long or forcible syllable, and
two short or light ones, recurring over and over. In
like manner in our own language, in the line
At the cI66e of the day when the hamlet is still,
we have two light and one strong syllable repeated four
times over. Such repetition is the essence ofversification.
The same kind of rhythm is one of the main elements of
music, with this difference only, that in music the forcible
syllables are made so for the purposes of rhythm by
their length only or principally; for example, if either of
the above lines were imitated by a melody in the most
Digitized by Google
SOME PECULIARITIES OF THE IDEA OF TIME. 131
simple and obvious manner, each strong syllable would
occupy exactly twice as much time as two of the weaker
ones. Something very analogous to such rhythm may
be traced in other parts of poetry and art, which we need
not here dwell upon. But in reference to our present
subject, we may remark that by the introduction of such
rhythm, the flow of time, which appears otherwise so
perfectly simple and homogeneous, admits of an infinite
number of varied yet regular modes of progress. All
the kinds of versification which occur in all languages,
and the still more varied forms of recurrence of notes of
different lengths, which are heard in all the varied strains
of melodies, are only examples of such modifications, or
configurations as we may call them, of time. They in­
volve relations of various portions of time, as figures
involve relations of various portions of space. But yet
the analogy between rhythm and figure is by no means
very close; for in rhythm we have relations of quantity
alone in the parts of time, whereas in figure we have re­
lations not only of quantity, but of a kind altogether
different,—namely, of position. On the other hand, a
repetition of similar elements, which does not necessarily
occur in figures, is quite essential in order to impress
upon us that measured progress of time of which we here
speak. And thus the ideas of time and space have each
its peculiar and exclusive relations; position and figure
belonging only to space, while repetition and rhythm are
appropriate to time.
7. One of the simplest forms of recurrence is alter­
nation, as when we have alternate strong and slight syl­
lables. For instance,—
Awlike, arise, or be for 6ver f&ll'n.
Or without any subordination, as when we reckon
numbers, and call them in succession, odd, even, odd,
even.
■ K 2
Digitized by Googk
132 PHILOSOPHY OF THE PORE SCIENCES.
8. But the simplest of all forms of recurrence is that
which has no variety;— in which a series of units, each
considered as exactly similar to the rest, succeed each
other; as one,one, one, and so on. In this case, ho
ever, we are led to consider each unit with reference to
all that have preceded; and thus the series one, one, one,
and so forth, becomes one, two, four, five, and so
on; a series with which all are familiar, and which may
be continued without limit.
We thus collect from that repetition of which time
admits, the conception of Number.
9. The relations of position and figure are the sub­
ject of the science of geometry; and are, as we have
already said, traced into a Very remarkable and extensive
body of truths, which rests for its foundations on axioms
involved in the Idea of Space. There is, in like manner,
a science of great complexity and extent, which has its
foundation in the Idea of Time. But this science, as it
is usually pursued, applies only to the conception of Num­
ber, which is, as we have said, the simplest result of
repetition. This science is Theoretical Arithmetic, or
the speculative doctrine of the properties and relations
of numbers; and we must say a few words concerning
the principles which it is requisite to assume as the basis
of this science. ,
Chapter IX.
OF TH E AXIOM S W H IC H RELA TE TO NUM BER.
1. The foundations of our speculative knowledge of
the relations and properties of Number, as well as of
Space, are contained in the mode in which we represent to
ourselves the magnitudes which are the subjects of our
reasonings. To express these foundations in axioms in the
Digitized by Googk
case of number, is a matter requiring some consideration,
for the same reason as in the case of geometry; that is,
because these axioms are principles which we assume as
true, without being aware that we have made any assump­
tion ; and we cannot, without careful scrutiny, determine
when we have stated, in the form of axioms, all that is
necessary for the formation of the science, and no more
than is necessary. We will, however, attempt to detect
the principles which really must form the basis of theo­
retical arithmetic.
2. Why is it that three and two are equal to four and
one ? Because if we look at five things of any kind, we
see that it is so. The five are four and one; they are
also three and two. The truth of our assertion is in­
volved in our being able to conceive the number five at
all. We perceive this truth by intuition, for we cannot
see, or imagine we see, five things, without perceiving
also that the assertion above stated is true.
But how do we state in words this fundamental prin­
ciple of the doctrine of numbers? Let us consider a
very simple case. If we wish to show that seven and
two are equal to four and five, we say that seven are four
and three, therefore seven and two are four and three
and two; and because three and two are five, this is four
and five. Mathematical reasoners justify the first infer­
ence (marked by the conjunctive word therefore), by
saying that “ When equals are added to equals the
wholes are equal,” and that thus, since seven is equal
to three and four, if we add two to both, seven and two
are equal to four and three and two.
3. Such axioms as this, that when equals are added
to equals the wholes are equal, are, in fact, expressions
of the general condition of intuition, by which a whole
is contemplated as made up of parts, and as identical
with the aggregate of the parts. And a yet more gene­
OF THE AXIOMS WHICH RELATE TO NUMBER. 133
Digitized by Google
134 PHILOSOPHY OF THE PURE SCIENCES.
ral form in which we might more adequately express
this conditon of intuition would be this; that “Two mag­
nitudes are equal when they can be divided into parts
which are equal, each to each.” Thus in the above ex­
ample, seven and two are equal to four and five, because
each of the two sums can be divided into the parts, four,
three, and two.
4. In all these cases, a person who had never seen
such axioms enunciated in a verbal form would employ
the same reasoning as a practised mathematician, in order
to satisfy himself that the proposition was true. The
steps of the reasoning, being seen to be true by intuition,
would carry an entire conviction, whether or not the
argument were made verbally complete. Hence the
axioms may appear superfluous, and on this account
such axioms have often been spoken contemptuously of
as empty and barren assertions. In fact, however, al­
though they cannot supply the deficiency of the clear in­
tuition of number and space in the reasoner himself, and
although when he possesses such a,faculty, ,he will reason
rightly if he have never heard of stick-axioms, they still
have their place properly at the beginning of our trea­
tises on the science of quantity; since they express, as
simply as words can express, those conditions of the
intuition of magnitudes on which all reasoning concern­
ing quantity must be based; and are necessary when we
want, not only to see the truth of the elementary reason­
ings on these subjects, but to put such reasonings in a
formal and logical shape.
5. We have considered the above-mentioned axioms
as the basis of all arithmetical operations of the nature
of addition. But it is easily seen that the same prin­
ciple may be carried into other cases; as for instance,
multiplication, which is merely a repeated addition,
and admits of the same kind of evidence. Thus
Digitized by Google
five times three are equal to three times five ; why
is this? If we arrange fifteen things in five rows of
three, it is seen by looking, or by imaginary looking,
which is intuition, that they may also be taken as three
rows of five. And thus the principle that those wholes
are equal which can be resolved into the same partial
magnitudes, is immediately applicable in this as in the
other case.
6. We may proceed to higher numbers, and may find
ourselves obliged to use artificial nomenclature and
notation in order to represent and reckon them ; but the
reasoning in these cases also is still the same. And the
usual artifice by which our reasoning in such instances
is assisted is, that the number which is the root of our
scale of notation (which is ten in our usual system), is
alternately separated into parts and treated as a single
thing. Thus 47 and 35 are 82 ; for 47 is four tens and
seven ; 35 is three tens and five ; whence 47 and 35 are
seven tens and twelve ; that is, 7 tens, 1 ten, and 2 ;
which is 8 tens and 2, or 82. The like reasoning is
applicable in other cases. And since the most remote
and complex properties of numbers are obtained by a
prolongation of a course of reasoning exactly similar to
that by which we thus establish the most elementary
propositions, we have, in the principles just noticed, the
foundation of the whole of Theoretical Arithmetic.
OF THE AXIOMS WHICH RELATE TO NUMBER. 135
Chapter X.
OF TH E PER C EPTIO N O F TIM E AND NUM BER.
1. Our perception of the passage of time involves a
series of acts of memory. This is easily seen and assented
to, when large intervals of time and a complex train of
occurrences are concerned. But since memory is requi­
Digitized by Googk
13G PHILOSOPHY OF THE PURE SCIENCES.
site in order to apprehend time in such cases, we cannot
doubt that the^same faculty must be concerned in the
shortest and simplestTcases' of succession; for it will
hardly be maintained that the process by which we con­
template the progress of time is different when small
and when large intervals are concerned. If memory be
absolutely requisite to connect two events which begin
and end a day, and to perceive a tract of time between
them, it must be equally indispensable to connect the
beginning and end of a minute, or a second; though in
this case the effort may be smaller, and consequently
more easily overlooked. In common cases, we are un­
conscious of the act of thought by which we recollect
the preceding instant, though we perceive the effort when
we recollect some distant event. And this is analogous
to what happens in other instances. Thus, we walk
without being conscious of the volitions by which we
move our muscles; but, in order to leap, a distinct and-
manifest exertion of the same muscles is necessary. Yet
no one will doubt that we walk as well as leap by an
act of the will exerted through the muscles; and in like
manner, our consciousness of small as well as large inter­
vals of time involves something of the nature of an act
of memory.
2. But this constant and almost imperceptible kind
of memory, by which we connect the beginning and end
of each instant as it passes, may very fitly be distinguished
in common cases from manifest acts of recollection,
although it may be difficult or impossible to separate
the two operations in general./This perpetual and latent
kind of memory may be termed a sense of
ness ;and must be considered as an internal sense by
which we perceive ourselves existing in time, much in
the same way as by our external and muscular sense
we perceive ourselves existing in space./ And both our
Digitized by Googk
PERCEPTION OF TIME AND NUMBER. 137
internal thoughts and feelings, and the events which
take place around us, are apprehended as objects of this
internal sense, and thus as taking place in time.
3. In the same manner in which our interpretation
of the notices of the muscular sense implies the power of
moving our limbs, and of touching at will this object or
that; our apprehension of the relations of time by means
of the internal sense of successiveness implies a power of
recalling what has past, and of retaining what is pass­
ing. We are able to seize the occurrences which have
just taken place, and to hold them fast in our minds
so as mentally to measure their distance*in time from
occurrences now present. And thus, this sense of suc­
cessiveness, like the muscular sense with which we have
compared it, implies activity of the mind itself, and is
not a sense passively receiving impressions.
4. The conception of Number appears to require the
exercise of the same sense of succession. At first sight,
indeed, we seem to apprehend Number without any act
of memory, or any reference to time: for example, we
look at a horse, and see that his legs are four; and this
we seem to do at once, without reckoning them. But it
is not difficult to see that this seeming instantaneousness
of the perception of small numbers is an illusion. This
resembles the many other cases in which we perform
short and easy acts so rapidly and familiarly that we are
unconscious of them; as in the acts of seeing, and of arti­
culating our words. And this is the more manifest, since
we begin our acquaintance with number by counting
even the smallest numbers. Children and very rude
savages must use an effort to reckon even their five
fingers, and find a difficulty in going further. And per­
sons have been known who were able by habit, or by a
peculiar natural aptitude, to count by dozens as rapidly
as common persons can by units. We may conclude,
Digitized by Google
138 PHILOSOPHY OF THE PURE SCIENCES.
therefore, that when we appear to catch a small number
by a single glance of the eye, we do in fact count the
units of it in a regular, though very brief succession. To
count requires an act of memory. Of this we are sen­
sible when we count very slowly, as when we reckon the
strokes of a church-clock; for in such a case we may
forget in the intervals of the strokes, and miscount. Now
it will not be doubted that the nature of the process in
counting is the same whether we count fast or slow.
There is no definite speed of reckoning at which the
faculties which it requires are changed; and therefore
memory, which is requisite in some cases, must be so
in all*.
The act of counting, {one, three, and so on,) is
the foundation of all our knowledge of number. The
intuition of the relations of number involves this act of
counting; for, as we have just seen, the conception of
number cannot be obtained in any other way. And thus
the whole of theoretical arithmetic depends upon an act
of the mind, and upon the conditions which the exercise
of that act implies. These have been already explained
in the last chapter.
5. But if the apprehension of number be accompanied
by an act of the mind, the apprehension of rhythm is so
still more clearly. All the forms of versification and the
measures of melodies are the creations of man, who thus
realizes in words and sounds the forms of recurrence
which rise within his own mind. When we hear in a
* I have considered Number as involving the exercise of the sense
of succession, because I cannot draw any line between those cases of
large numbers, in which, the process of counting being performed, there
is a manifest apprehension of succession; and those cases of small num­
bers, in which we seem to see the number at one glance. But if any
one holds Number to be apprehended by a direct act of intuition, as
Space and Time are, this view will not disturb tho other doctrines
delivered in the text.
Digitized by Google
PERCEPTION OF TIME AND NUMBER. 139
quiet scene any rapidly-repeated sound, as those made by
the hammer of the smith or the saw of the carpenter,
every one knows how insensibly we throw these noises
into a rhythmical form in our own apprehension. We
do this even without any suggestion from the sounds
themselves. For instance, if the beats of a clock or
watch be ever so exactly alike, we still reckon them
alternately tick-tack, tick -tack.That this is th
may be proved by taking a watch or clock of such a con­
struction that the returning swing of the pendulum is
silent, and in which therefore all the beats are rigorously
alike: we shall find ourselves still reckoning its sounds
as tick - tack.In this instance it is manifest that the
rhythm is entirely of our own making. In melodies,
also, and in verses in which the rhythm is complex, ob­
scure, and difficult, we perceive something is required
on our part; for we are often incapable of contributing
our share, and thus lose the sense of the measure alto­
gether. And when we consider such cases, and attend
to what passes within us when we catch the measure,
even of the simplest and best-known air, we shall no
longer doubt that an act of our own thoughts is requisite
in such cases, as well as impressions on the sense. And
thus the conception of this peculiar modification of time,
which we have called rhythm, like all the other views
which we have taken of the subject, shows that we must,
in order to form such conceptions, supply a certain idea
by our own thoughts, as well as merely receive by senses,
whether external or internal, the impressions of appear­
ances and collections of appearances.
NOTE TO CHAPTER X.
I have in the last ten chapters described Space, Time, and Number by
various expressions, all intended to point out their office as exemplifying
the Ideal Element of human knowledge. I have called them Funda­
Digitized by Googk
140 PHILOSOPHY OF THK PURE 8CIENCES
mental Ideas; Forms of Perception ; Forms of Intuition ; and per­
haps other names. I might add yet other phrases. I might say that
the properties of Space, Time, and Number are Laws o f the M inds
\ Activity in apprehending what is. For the mind cannot apprehend any
; thing or event except conformably to the properties of space, time, and
number. It is not only that it does not, but it can not: and this
impossibility shows that the law is a law of the mind, and not of
objects extraneous to the mind.
— It is usual for some of those who reject the doctrines here presented
to say that the axioms of geometry, and of other sciences, are obtained
by Induction from facts constantly presented by experience. But I do
not see how Induction can prove that a proposition must be true. The
only intelligible usage of the word Induction appears to me to be, that in
which it is applied to a proposition which, being separable from the
facts in our apprehension, and being compared with them, is seen to
agree with them. But in the cases now spoken of, the proposition is
not separable from the facts. We cannot infer by induction that two
straight lines cannot inclose a space, because we cannot contemplate
special cases of two lines inclosing a space, in which it remains to be
determined whether or not the proposition, that both are straight,
is true.
I do not deny that the activity of the mind by which it perceives
objects and events as related according to the laws of space, time, and
number, is awakened and developed by being constantly exercised; and
that wo cannot imagine a stage of human existence in which the powers
have not been awakened and developed by such exercise. In this way,
experience and observation are necessary conditions and prerequisites of
our apprehension of geometrical (and other) axioms. We cannot see
the truth of these axioms without some experience, because we cannot
see any thing, or be human beings, without some experience. This
might be expressed by saying that such truths are acquired necessarily
in the course of all experience ; but I think it is very undesirable to
apply, to such a case, the word Induction, of which it is so important
to us to keep the scientific meaning free from confusion. Induction
cannot give demonstrative proofs, as I have already stated in Book i.
C. ii. sect. 3, and therefore cannot be the ground of necessary truths.
Another expression which may be used to describe the Funda­
mental Ideas here spoken of is suggested by the language of a very
profound and acute Review of the former edition. The Reviewer holds
that we pass from special experiences to universal truths in virtue of
“ the inductive propensity— the irresistible impulse of the mind to
generalize ad infnilnm.” I have already given reasons why I cannot
adopt the former expression ; but I do not see why space, time, number,
Digitized by Google
PERCEPTION OF TIME AND NUMBER. 141
cause, and the rest, may not be termed differentforme of the impulse of
the mind to generalize. If we put together all the Fundamental Ideas
as results of the Generalizing Impulse, we must still separate them as
different modes of action of that Impulse, showing themselves in various
characteristic ways in the axioms and modes of reasoning which belong
to different sciences. The Generalizing Impulse in one case proceeds
according to the Idea of Space; in another, according to the Idea of
Mechanical Cause; and so in other subjects.
C h a p t e r X I.
OF M ATHEM ATICAL REASONING.
1. Discursive Reasoning.—W e have thus seen that
our notions of space, time, and their modifications, neces­
sarily involve a certain activity of the mind; and that
the conditions of this activity form the foundations of
those sciences which have the relations of space, time,
and number, for their object. Upon the fundamental
principles thus established, the various sciences which
are included iu the term Pure Mathematics, (Geometry,
Algebra, Trigonometry, Conic Sections, and the rest of
the Higher Geometry, the Differential Calculus, and the
like,) are built up by a series of reasonings. These rea­
sonings are subject to the rules of Logic, as we have
already remarked; nor is it necessary here to dwell long
on the nature and rules of such processes. But we may
here notice that such processes are termed discursive,
in opposition to the operations by which we acquire our
fundamental principles, which are, as we have seen, intui­
tive. This opposition was formerly very familiar to our
writers ; as Milton,—
. . . Thus the soul reason receives,
Discursive or intuitive.— Paradise Lost, v. 438.
For in such reasonings we obtain our conclusions, not
by looking at our conceptions steadily in one view, which
Digitized by Googk
142 PHILOSOPHY OF TOR PURE SCIENCES.
is intuition, but by passing from one view to another, like
those who run from place to place ( ) . Thus a
straight line may be at the same time a side of a triangle
and a radius of a circle: and in the first proposition of
Euclid a line is considered, first in one of these relations,
and then in the other, and thus the sides of a certain
triangle are proved to be equal. And by this “ discourse
of reason,” as by our older writers it was termed, we set
forth from those axioms which we perceive by intuition,
travel securely over a vast and varied region, and become
possessed of a copious store of mathematical truths.
2. Technical Terms of Reasoning.—The reasoning of
mathematics, thus proceeding from a few simple princi­
ples to many truths, is conducted according to the rules
of Logic. If it be necessary, mathematical proofs may be
reduced to logical forms, and expressed in Syllogisms,
consisting of major, minor, and conclusion. But in most
cases the syllogism is of that kind which is called by
logical writers an Enthymeme; a word which implies
something existing in the thoughts only, and which desig­
nates a syllogism in which one of the premises is under­
stood, and not expressed. Thus we say in a mathematical
proof, “ because the point c is the center of the circle ab,
a c is equal to b c ;” not stating the major,—that all lines
drawn from the center of a circle to the circumference
are equal; or introducing it only by a transient reference
to the definition of a circle. But the enthymeme is so
constantly used in all habitual forms of reasoning, that
it does not occur to us as being anything peculiar in
mathematical works.
The propositions which are proved to be generally
true are termed Theoi'ems: but when anything is required
to be done, as to draw a line or a circle under given
conditions, this proposition is a Problem. A theorem re­
quires demonstration; a problem, solution. And for both
Digitized by Google
OF MATHEMATICAL REASONING. 143
purposes the mathematician usually makes a Construc­
tion. He directs us to draw certain lines, circles, or other
curves, on which is to be founded his demonstration that
his theorem is true, or that his problem is solved. Some­
times, too, he establishes some , or preparatory
proposition, before he proceeds to his main task; and
often he deduces from his demonstration some conclusion
in addition to that which was the professed object of his
proposition; and this is termed a Corollary.
These technical terms are noted here, not as being
very important, but in order that they may not sound
strange and unintelligible if we should have occasion to
use some of them. There is, however, one technical dis­
tinction more peculiar, and more important.
3. Geometrical Analysis and Synthesis.—In geome­
trical reasoning such as we have described, we introduce
at every step some new consideration; and it is by com­
bining all these considerations, that we arrive at the
conclusion, that is, the demonstration of the proposition.
Each step tends to the final result, by exhibiting some
part of the figure under a new relation. To what we
have already proved, is added something more; and hence
this process is called Synthesis, or putting together. The
proof flows on, receiving at every turn new contribu­
tions from different quarters; like a river fed and aug­
mented by many tributary streams. And each of these
tributaries flows from some definition or axiom as its
fountain, or is itselfformed by the union of smaller rivulets
which have sources of this kind. In descending along its
course, the synthetical proof gathers all these accessions,
into one common trunk, the proposition finally proved.
But we may proceed in a different manner. We
may begin from the formed river, and ascend to its
sources. We may take the proposition of which we
require a proof, and may examine what the supposition
Digitized by Google
144 PHILOSOPHY OF THE PURE SCIENCES.
of its truth implies. If this be true, then something else
may be seen to be true; and from this, something else,
and so on. We may often, in this way, discover of what
simpler propositions our theorem or solution is com­
pounded, and may resolve these in succession, till we
come to some proposition which is obvious. This is geo­
metrical Analysis. Having succeeded in this analytical
process, we may invert it; and may descend again from
the simple and known propositions, to the proof of a
theorem, or the solution of a problem, which was our
starting-place.
This process resembles, as we have said, tracing a
river to its sources. As we ascend the stream, we per­
petually meet with bifurcations; and some sagacity is
needed to enable us to see which, in each case, is the
main stream: but if we proceed in our research, we
exhaust the unexplored valleys, and finally obtain a clear
knowledge of the place whence the waters flow. Analy­
tical is sometimes confounded with symbolical reasoning,
on which subject we shall make a remark in the next
chapter. The object of that chapter is to notice certain
other fundamental principles and ideas, not included in
those hitherto spoken of, which we find thrown in our
way as we proceed in our mathematical speculations.
It would detain us too long, and involve us in subtle and
technical disquisitions, to examine fully the grounds of
these principles; but the Mathematics hold so important
a place in relation to the inductive sciences, that I shall
briefly notice the leading ideas which the ulterior pro­
gress of the subject involves.
Digitized by Google
145
C h a p t e r X II.
OF TH E FOUNDATIONS OF TH E H IG H E R
M ATHEM ATICS.
1. The Idea of a Limit.—The general truths concern­
ing relations of space which depend upon the axioms
and definitions contained in Euclid’s Elements, and which
involve only properties of straight lines and circles, are
termed Elementary Geometry: all beyond this belongs to
the Higher Geometry. To this latter province appertain,
for example, all propositions respecting the lengths of any
portions of curve lines; for these cannot be obtained by
means of the principles of the Elements alone. Here
then we must ask to what other principles the geometer
has recourse, and from what source these are drawn. Is
there any origin of geometrical truth which we have not
yet explored ?
The Idea of a Limit supplies a new mode of establish­
ing mathematical truths. Thus with regard to the length
of any portion of a curve, a problem which we have just
mentioned; a curve is not made up of straight lines, and
therefore we cannot by means of any of the doctrines of
elementary geometry measure the length of any curve.
But we may make up a figure nearly resembling any
curve by putting together many short straight lines, just
as a polygonal building of very many sides may nearly
resemble a circular room. And in order to approach
nearer and nearer to the curve, we may make the sides
more and more small, more and more numerous. We
may then possibly find some mode of measurement, some
relation of these small lines to other lines, which is not
disturbed by the multiplication of the sides, however far
it be carried. And thus, we may do what is equivalent to
VOL. i. w . p. L
Digitized by Googk
146 PHILOSOPHY OF THE PURE SCIENCES.
measuring the curve itself; for by multiplying the sides
we may approach more and more closely to the curve till
no appreciable difference remains. The curve line is the
Limit of the polygon ; and in this process we proceed on
the A
x
io
m
, that “What is true up to the limit is true at
the limit.”
This mode of conceiving mathematical magnitudes is
of wide extent and use; for every curve may be con­
sidered as the limit of some polygon; every varied
magnitude, as the limit of some aggregate of simpler
forms; and thus the relations of the elementary figures
enable us to advance to the properties of the most com­
plex cases.
A Limit is a peculiar and fundamental conception, the
use of which in proving the propositions of the Higher
Geometry cannot be superseded by any combination of
other hypotheses and definitions*. The axiom just no­
ticed, that what is true up to the limit is true at the limit,
is involved in the very conception of a limit: and this
principle, with its consequences, leads to all the results
which form the subject of the higher mathematics, whe­
• This assertion cannot be fully proved and illustrated without a
reference to mathematical reasonings which would not be generally
intelligible. I have shown the truth of the assertion in my Thoughts
on the Study of Mathematics, annexed to the Principles of E n g lis h
University Education. The proof is of this kind:—The ultimate
equality of an arc of a curve and the corresponding periphery of a
polygon, when the sides of the polygon are indefinitely increased in
number, is evident. But this truth cannot be proved from any other
axiom. For if we take the supposed axiom, that a curve is always
less than the including broken line, this is not true, except with a con­
dition ; and in tracing the import of this condition, we find its neces­
sity becomes evident only when we introduce a reference to a Limit.
And tho same is the case if we attempt to supersede the notion of a
Limit in proving any other simple and evident proposition in which
that notion is involved. Therefore these evident truths are ¿¿//^evident,
in virtue of the Idea of a Limit.
Digitized by Google
ther proved by the consideration of evanescent triangles,
by the processes of the Differential Calculus, or in any
other way.
The ancients did not expressly introduce this con­
ception of a Limit into their mathematical reasonings;
although in the application of what is termed the
Method qf Exhaustions, (in which they show how to
exhaust the difference between a polygon and a curve, or
the like,) they were in fact proceeding upon an obscure
apprehension of principles equivalent to those of the
Method of Limits. Yet the necessary fundamental prin­
ciple not having, in their time, been clearly developed,
their reasonings were both needlessly intricate and im­
perfectly satisfactory. Moreover they were led to put in
the place of axioms, assumptions which were by no means
self-evident ; as when Archimedes assumed, for the basis
of his measure of the circumference of the circle, the
proposition that a circular arch is necessarily less than
two lines which inclose it, joining its extremities. The
reasonings of the older mathematicians, which professed
to proceed upon such assumptions, led to true results
in reality, only because they were guided by a latent
reference to the limiting case of such assumptions. And
this latent employment of the conception of a Limit,
reappeared in various forms during the early period of
modern mathematics ; as for example, in the Method of
Indivisibles of Cavalieri, and the Characteristic Triangle
of Barrow ; till at last, Newton distinctly referred such
reasonings to the conception of a Limit, and established
the fundamental principles and processes which that
conception introduces, with a distinctness and exactness
which required little improvement to make it as unim­
peachable as the demonstrations of geometry. And when
such processes as Newton thus deduced from the con­
ception of a Limit are represented by means of general
Li
THE FOUNDATIONS OF THE HIGHER MATHEMATICS. 147
Digitized by Google
148 PHILOSOPHY OF THE PURE SCIENCES.
algebraical symbols instead of geometrical diagrams, we
have then before us the Method of Fluxions, or the
Differential Calculus; a mode of treating mathematical
problems justly considered as the principal weapon by
which the splendid triumphs of modern mathematics
have been achieved.
2. The Use of General ?.—The employment
of algebraical symbols, of which we have just spoken,
has been another of the main instruments to which the
successes of modern mathematics are owing. And here
again the processes by which we obtain our results de­
pend for their evidence upon a fundamental conception,
—the conception of arbitrary symbols as the Signs of
quantity and its relations; and upon a corresponding
axiom, that “ The interpretation of such symbols must
be perfectly general.” In this case, as in the last, it was
only by degrees that mathematicians were led to a just
apprehension of the grounds of their reasoning. For
symbols were at first used only to represent numbers
considered with regard to their numerical properties;
and thus the science of Algebra was formed. But it was
found, even in cases belonging to common algebra, that
the symbols often admitted of an interpretation which
went beyond the limits of the problem, and which yet was
not unmeaning, since it pointed out a question closely
analogous to the question proposed. This was the case,
for example, when the answer was a negative quantity;
for when Descartes had introduced the mode of repre­
senting curves by means of algebraical relations among
the symbols of the co-ordinates, or distances of each of
their points from fixed lines, it was found that negative
quantities must be dealt with as not less truly significant
than positive ones. And as the researches of mathema­
ticians proceeded, other cases also were found, in which
the symbols, although destitute of meaning according to
Digitized by Google
the original conventions of their institution, still pointed
out truths which could be verified in other ways; as in
the cases in which what are called impossible quantities
occur. Such processes may usually be confirmed upon
other principles, and the truth in question may be esta­
blished by means of a demonstration in which no such
seeeming fallacies defeat the reasoning. But it has also
been shown in many such cases, that the process in which
some of the steps appear to be without real meaning,
does in fact involve a valid proof of the proposition.
And what we have here to remark is, that this is not
true accidentally or partially only, but that the results
of systematic symbolical reasoning must express
general truths, by their nature, and do not, for their
justification, require each of the steps of the process to
represent some definite operation upon quantity. The
absolute universality .
qf the interpretation of sy
the fundamental principle of their use. This has been
shown very ably by Dr. Peacock in his Algebra. He
has there illustrated, in a variety of ways, this prin­
ciple: that “ If general symbols express an identity
when they are supposed to be of any special nature,
they must also express an identity when they are gene­
ral in their nature.” And thus, this universality of sym­
bols is a principle in addition to those we have already
noticed; and is a principle of the greatest importance
in the formation of mathematical science, according to
the wide generality which such science has in modern
times assumed.
3. Connexion of Symbols and Analysis.—Since in
our symbolical reasoning our symbols thus reason for us,
we do not necessarily here, as in geometrical reasoning,
go on adding carefully one known truth to another, till
we reach the desired result. On the contrary, if we have
a theorem to prove or a problem to solve which can be
THE FOUNDATIONS OF THE HIGHER MATHEMATICS. 149
Digitized by Google
150 PHILOSOPHY OF THE PURE SCIENCES.
brought under the domain of our symbols, we may at
once state the given but unproved truth, or the given
combination of unknown quantities, in its symbolical
form. After this first process, we may then proceed to
trace, by means of our symbols, what other truth is
involved in the one thus stated, or what the unknown
symbols must signify; resolving step by step the sym­
bolical assertion with which we began, into others more
fitted for our purpose. The former process is a kind of
synthesis, the latter is termed analysis. And although
symbolical reasoning does not necessarily imply such
analysis; yet the connexion is so familiar, that the
term analysis is frequently used to designate symbolical
reasoning.
C h a p t e r XIII.
THE DOCTRINE OF MOTION.
1. Pure Mechanism,.—T h e doctrine of Motion, of
which we have here to speak, is that in which motion is
considered quite independently of its cause, force; for
all consideration of force belongs to a class of ideas
entirely different from those with which we are here
concerned. In this view it may be termed the pure
doctrine of motion, since it has to do solely with space
and time, which are the subjects of pure mathematics.
(See C. i. of this Book.) Although the doctrine of
motion in connexion with force, which is the subject
of mechanics, is by far the most important form in
which the consideration of motion enters into the form­
ation of our sciences, the Pure Doctrine of Motion,
which treats of space, time, and velocity, might be fol­
lowed out so as to give rise to a very considerable and
curious body of science. Such a science is the science
Digitized by Google
THE DOCTRINE OF MOTION. 151
of Mechanism, independent of force, and considered as
the solution of a problem which may be thus enunciated:
“ To communicate any given motion from a first mover
to a given body.” The science which should have for its
object to solve all the various cases into which this pro­
blem would ramify, might be termed
in contradistinction to Mechanics Proper, or Machinery,
in which Force is taken into consideration. The greater
part of the machines which have been constructed for
use in manufactures have been practical solutions of some
of the cases of this problem. We have also important
contributions to such a science in the works of mathe­
maticians; for example, the various investigations and
demonstrations which have been published respecting
the form of the Teeth of Wheels, and Mr. Babbage’s
memoir* on the Language of Machinery. There are
also several works which contain collections of the
mechanical contrivances which have been invented for
the purpose of transmitting and modifying motion, and
these works may be considered as treatises on the science
of Pure Mechanism. But this science has not yet been
reduced to the systematic simplicity which is desirable,
nor indeed generally recognized as a separate science. It
has been confounded, under the common name of Me­
chanics, with the other science, Mechanics Proper, or
Machinery, which considers the effect offorce transmitted
by mechanism from one part of a material combination
to another. For example, the Mechanical Powers, as
they are usually termed, (the Lever, the Wheel and
Axle, the Inclined Plane, the Wedge, and the Screw,)
have almost always been treated with reference to the
relation between the Power and the Weight, and not
primarily as a mode of changing the velocity and kind
• Ona Method o f expressing by Signs the Action o f Machinery.
Phil. Trans., 1826, p. 250.
Digitized by Google
152 PHILOSOPHY OF THE PUBE SCIENCES.
of the motion. The science of pure motion has not
generali/ been separated from the science of motion
viewed with reference to its causes.
Recently, indeed, the necessity of such a separation
has been seen by those who have taken a philosophical
view of science. Thus this necessity has been urged by
M. Ampère, in his Essai sur la Philosophie des Sciences
(1834): “ Long,” he says, (p. 50), “ before I employed
myself upon the present work, I had remarked that it is
usual to omit, in the beginning of all books treating of
sciences which regard motion and force, certain consi­
derations which, duly developed, must constitute a special
science : of which science certain parts have been treated
of either in memoirs or in special works ; such, for ex­
ample, as that of Carnot upon Motion considered geome­
trically, and the essay of Lanz and Betancourt upon the
Composition of Machines.” He then proceeds to describe
this science nearly as we have done, and proposes to
term it Kinematics ( Cinématique)
,
from telli
2. Formal Astronomy.—1 shall not attempt here
further to develop the form which such a science must
assume. But I may notice one very large province which
belongs to it. When men had ascertained the apparent
motions of the sun, moon, and stars, to a moderate
degree of regularity and accuracy, they tried to conceive
in their minds some mechanism by which these motions
might be produced; and thus they in fact proposed to
themselves a very extensive problem in Kinematics.
This, indeed, was the view originally entertained of the
nature of the science of astronomy. Thus Plato in the
seventh Book of his R
e
p
u
b
l
i
c*
, speaks of astronom
the doctrine of the motion of solids, meaning thereby,
spheres. And the same was a proper description of the
science till the time of Kepler, and even later: for
• P. 528.
Digitized by Googk
TI1E DOCTRINE OF MOTION. 153
Kepler endeavoured in vain to conjoin with the know­
ledge of the motions of the heavenly bodies, those true
mechanical conceptions which converted formal into
physical astronomy*.
The astronomy of the ancients admitted none but
uniform circular motions, and could therefore be com­
pletely cultivated by the aid of their elementary geo­
metry. But the pure science of motion might be
extended to all motions, however varied as to the speed
or the path of the moving body. In this form it must
depend upon the doctrine of limits; and the funda­
mental principle of its reasonings would be this : That
velocity is measured by the Limit of the space described,
considered with reference to the time in which it is
described. I shall not further pursue this subject ; and
in order to complete what I have to say respecting the
Pure Sciences, I have only a few words to add respect­
ing their bearing on Inductive Science in general.
C h a p t e r XIV.
OF THE APPLICATION OF MATHEMATICS TO
THE INDUCTIVE SCENCES.
1. A ll objects in the world which can be made the
subjects of our contemplation are subordinate to the
conditions of Space, Time, and Number; and on this
account, the doctrines of pure mathematics have most
numerous and extensive applications in every depart­
ment of our investigations of nature. And there is a
peculiarity in these Ideas, which has caused the mathe­
matical sciences to be, in all cases, the first successful
efforts of the awakening speculative powers of nations at
* Hist. Ind. S c ii. 130.
Digitized by Googk
154 PHILOSOPHY OF THE PURE SCIENCES.
the commencement of their intellectual progress. Con­
ceptions derived from these Ideas are, from the very
first, perfectly precise and clear, so as to be fit elements
of scientific truths. This is not the case with the other
conceptions which form the subjects of scientific in­
quiries. The conception of statical , for instance,
was never presented in a distinct form till the works of
Archimedes appeared: the conception of accelerating
force was confused, in the mind of Kepler and his con­
temporaries, and only became clear enough for purposes
of sound scientific reasoning in the succeeding century:
the just conception of chemical composition of elements
gradually, in modern times, emerged from the erroneous
and vague notions of the ancients. If we take works
published on such subjects before the epoch when the
foundations of the true science were laid, we find the
knowledge not only small, but worthless. The writers
did not see any evidence in what we now consider as the
axioms of the science; nor any inconsistency where we
now see self-contradiction. But this was never the case
with speculations concerning space and number. From
their first rise, these were true as far as they went.
The Geometry and Arithmetic of the Greeks and Indians,
even in their first and most scanty form, contained none
but true propositions. Men’s intuitions upon these sub­
jects never allowed them to slide into error and confu­
sion ; and the truths to which they were led by the first
efforts of their faculties, so employed, form part of the
present stock of our mathematical knowledge.
2. But we are here not so much concerned with
mathematics in their pure form, as with their applica­
tion to the phenomena and laws of nature. And here
also the very earliest history of civilization presents to
us some of the most remarkable examples of man’s suc­
cess in his attempts to attain to science. Space and
Digitized by Googk
time, position and motion, govern all visible objects;
but by far the most conspicuous examples of the rela­
tions which arise out of such elements, are displayed by
the ever-moving luminaries of the sky, which measure
days, and months, and years, by their motions, and
man’s place on the earth by their position. Hence the
sciences of space and number were from the first culti­
vated with peculiar reference to Astronomy. I have
elsewhere* quoted Plato’s remark,—that it is absurd
to call the science of the relations of space ,
the measure of the earth, since its most important office
is to be found in its application to the heavens. And
on other occasions also it appears how strongly he, who
may be considered as the representative of the scientific
and speculative tendencies of his time dnd country, had
been impressed with the conviction, that the formation
of a science of the celestial motions must depend entirely
upon the progress of mathematics. In the Epilogue to
the Dialogue on the Laws\, he declares mathematical
knowledge to be the first and main requisite for the
astronomer, and describes the portions of it which he
holds necessary for astronomical speculators to culti­
vate. These seem to be, Plane Geometry, Theoretical
Arithmetic, the Application of Arithmetic to planes
and to solids, and finally the doctrine of Harmonics.
Indeed the bias of Plato appears to be rather to con­
sider mathematics as the essence of the science of
astronomy, than as its instrument; and he seems dis­
posed, in this as in other things, to disparage observa­
tion, and to aspire after a science founded upon demon­
stration alone. “ An astronomer,” he says in the same
place, “ must not be like Hesiod and persons of that
kind, whose astronomy consists in noting the settings
and risings of the stars; but he must be one who
* HuU Ind. 5c., B. m. e. ii. t Epinomis, p. 990.
INDUCTIVE APPLICATION OF MATHEMATICS. 155
Digitized by Googk
156 PHILOSOPHY OF THE PURE SCIENCES.
understands the revolutions of the celestial spheres, each
performing its proper cycle.”
A large portion of the mathematics of the Greeks,
so long as their scientific activity continued, was directed
towards astronomy. Besides many curious propositions
of plane and solid Geometry, to which their astronomers
were led, their Arithmetic, though very inconvenient in
its fundamental assumptions, was cultivated to a great
extent; and the science of Trigonometry, in which pro­
blems concerning the relations of space were resolved by
means of tables of numerical results previously obtained,
was created. Menelaus of Alexandria wrote six Books
on Chords, probably containing methods of calculating
Tables of these quantities; such Tables were familiarly
used by the later Greek astronomers. The same author
also wrote three Books on Spherical Trigonometry,
which are still extant.
3. The Greeks, however, in the first vigour of their
pursuit of mathematical truth, at the time of Plato and
soon after, had by no means confined themselves to
those propositions which had a visible bearing on the
phenomena of nature; but had followed out many beau­
tiful trains of research, concerning various kinds of
figures, for the sake of their beauty alone; as for in­
stance in their doctrine of Conic Sections, of which
curves they had discovered all the principal properties.
But it is curious to remark, that these investigations,
thus pursued at first as mere matters of curiosity and
intellectual gratification, were destined, two thousand
years later, to play a very important part in establishing
that system of the celestial motions which succeeded the
Platonic scheme of cycles and epicycles. If the proper­
ties of the conic sections had not been demonstrated by
the Greeks, and thus rendered familiar to the mathe­
maticians of succeeding ages, Kepler would probably
Digitized by Google
not have been able to discover those laws respecting the
orbits and motions of the planets which were the occa­
sion of the greatest revolution that ever happened in
the history of science.
4. The Arabians, who, as I have elsewhere said,
added little of their own to the stores of science which
they received from the Greeks, did however make some
very important contributions in those portions of pure
mathematics which are subservient to astronomy. Their
adoption of the Indian mode of computation by means
of the Ten Digits, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 0, and by the
method of Local Values, instead of the cumbrous sexa­
gesimal arithmetic of the Greeks, was an improvement
by which the convenience and facility of numerical cal­
culations were immeasurably augmented. The Arabians
also rendered several of the processes of trigonometry
much more commodious, by using the Sine of an arc
instead of the Chord; an improvement which Albateg-
nius appears to claim for himself*; and by employing
also the Tangents of arcs, or, as they called themf,
upright shadows.
5. The constant application of mathematical know­
ledge to the researches of Astronomy, and the mutual
influence of each science on the progress of the other,
has been still more conspicuous in modern times. New­
ton’s Method of Prime and Ultimate Ratios, which we
have already noticed as the first correct exposition of
the doctrine of a Limit, is stated in a series of Lemmas,
or preparatory theorems, prefixed to his Treatise on the
System of the World. Both the properties of curve
lines and the doctrines concerning force and motion,
which he had to establish, required that the common
mathematical methods should be methodized and ex­
tended. If Newton had not been a most expert and in­
* Delambro, Ast., M. A., p. 12. + Ibid., p. 17.
INDUCTIVE APPLICATION OF MATHEMATICS. 157
Digitized by Google
158 PHILOSOPHY OF THE PURE 8CIENCES.
ventive mathematician, as well as a profound and philo­
sophical thinker, he could never have made any one of
those vast strides in discovery of which the rapid succes­
sion in his work strikes us with wonder*. And if we
see that the great task begun by him, goes on more
slowly in the hands of his immediate successors, and
lingers a little before its full completion, we perceive
that this arises, in a great measure, from the defect of
the mathematical methods then used. Newton’s syn­
thetical modes of investigation, as we have elsewhere
observed, were an instrument+, powerful indeed in his
mighty hand, but too ponderous for other persons to
employ with effect. The countrymen of Newton clung
to it the longest, out of veneration for their master; and
English cultivators of physical astronomy were, on that
very account, left behind the progress of mathematical
science in France and Germany, by a wide interval,
which they have only recently recovered. On the Conti­
nent, the advantages offered by a familiar use of symbols,
and by attention to their symmetry and other relations,
were accepted without reserve. In this manner the
Differential Calculus of Leibnitz, which was in its origin
and signification identical with the Method of Fluxions
of Newton, soon surpassed its rival in the extent and
generality of its application to problems. This Calculus
was applied to the science of mechanics, to which it,
along with the symmetrical use of co-ordinates, gave a
new form; for it was soon seen that the most difficult
problems might in general be reduced to finding inte­
grals, which is the reciprocal process of that by which
differentials are found; so that all difficulties of physical
astronomy were reduced to difficulties of symbolical cal­
culation, these, indeed, being often sufficiently stubborn.
Clairaut, Euler, and D’Alembert employed the increased
* Hut. Ind. Sc., B. v i i . c. ii. t 16., p. 175.
Digitized by Google
resources of mathematical science upon the Theory of
the Moon, and other questions relative to the system of
the world; and thus began to pursue such inquiries in
the course in which mathematicians are still labouring
up to the present day. This course was not without its
checks and perplexities. We have elsewhere quoted*
Clairaut’s expression when he had obtained the very
complex differential equations which contain the solu­
tion of the problem of the moon’s motion: “ Now inte­
grate them who can!” But in no very long time they
were integrated, at least approximately; and the methods
of approximation have since then been improved; so
that now, with a due expenditure*of labour, they may be
carried to any extent which is thought desirable. If
the methods of astronomical observation should here­
after reach a higher degree of exactness than they now
profess, so that irregularities in the motions of the sun,
moon, and planets, shall be detected which at present
escape us, the mathematical part of the theory of univer­
sal gravitation is in such a condition that it can soon be
brought into comparison with the newly-observed facts.
Indeed at present the mathematical theory is in advance
of such observations. It can venture to suggest what
may afterwards be detected, as well as to explain what
has already been observed. This has happened recently;
for Professor Airy has calculated the law and amount
of an inequality depending upon the mutual attraction of
the Earth and Venus; of which inequality (so small is
it,) it remains to be determined whether its effect can be
traced in the series of astronomical observations.
6. As the influence of mathematics upon the progress
of astronomy is thus seen in the cases in which theory
and observation confirm each other, so this influence ap­
pears in another way, in the very few cases in which the
• Hist. Ind. S c B. vi. c. vi. sect. 7«
INDUCTIVE APPLICATION OF MATHEMATICS. 159
Digitized by Googk
160 PHILOSOPHY OK THE PURE SCIENCES.
facts have not been fully reduced to an agreement with
theory. The most conspicuous case of this kind is the
state of our knowledge of the Tides. This is a portion
of astronomy: for the Newtonian theory asserts these
curious phenomena to be the result of the attraction of
the sun and moon. Nor can there be anv doubt that
¥
this is true, as a general statement; yet the subject is
up to the present time a blot on the perfection of the
theory of universal gravitation; for we are very far from
being able in this, as in the other parts of astronomy, to
show that theory will exactly account for the time, and
magnitude, and all other circumstances of the pheno­
menon at every place on the earth’s surface. And what
is the portion of our mathematics which is connected
with this solitary signal defect in astronomy ? It is the
mathematics of the Motion of Fluids; a portion in which
extremely little progress has been made, and in which all
the more general problems of the subject have hitherto
remained entirely insoluble. The attempts of the greatest
mathematicians, Newton, Maclaurin, Bernoulli, Clairaut,
Laplace, to master such questions, all involve some gra­
tuitous assumption, which is introduced because the
problem cannot otherwise be mathematically dealt with :
these assumptions confessedly render the result defective,
and how defective, it is hard to say. And it was pro­
bably precisely the absence of a theory which could be
reasonably expected to agree with the observations, which
made Observations of this very curious phenomenon, the
Tides, to be so much neglected as till very recently they
were. Of late years such observations have been pur­
sued, and their results have been resolved into empirical
laws, so that the rules of the phenomena have been
ascertained, although the dependence of these rules upon
the lunar and solar forces has not been shown. Here
then we have a portion of our knowledge relating to
Digitized by Googk
INDUCTIVE APPLICATION OF MATHEMATICS. 161
facts undoubtedly dependent upon universal gravitation,
in which Observation has outstripped Theory in her pro­
gress, and is compelled to wait till her usual companion
overtakes her. This is a position of which Mathematical
Theory has usually been very impatient, and we may
expect that she will be no less so in the present instance.
7. It would be easy to show from the history of
other sciences, for example, Mechanics and Optics, how
essential the cultivation of pure mathematics has been to
their progress. The parabola was already familiar among
mathematicians when Galileo discovered that it was the
theoretical path of a Projectile; and the extension and
generalization of the Laws of Motion could never have
been effected, unless the Differential and Integral Cal­
culus had been at hand, ready to trace the results of every
hypothesis which could be made. D’Alembert’s mode of
expressing the Third Law of Motion in its most general
form*, if it did not prove the law, at least reduced the
application of it to analytical processes which could be
performed in most of those cases in which they were
needed. In many instances the demands of mechanical
science suggested the extension of the methods of pure
analysis. The problem of Vibrating Strings gave rise to
the Calculus of Partial Differences, which was still fur­
ther stimulated by its application to the motions of fluids
and other mechanical problems. And we have in the
writings of Lagrange and Laplace other instances equally
remarkable of new analytical methods, to which mecha­
nical problems, and especially cosmical problems, have
given occasion.
8. The progress of Optics as a science has, in like
manner, been throughout dependent upon the progress
of pure mathematics. The first rise of geometry was fol­
* Hist, Ind. S c i B. Vl. r. vi. w t . 7*
vol. I. w. r. M
Digitized by Googk
PHILOSOPHY OK Till'. PURE SCIENCES.
1(52
lowed by some advances, slight ones no doubt, in the
doctrine of Reflection and in Perspective. The law of
Refraction was traced to its consequences by means of
Trigonometry, which indeed was requisite to express the
law in a simple form. The steps made in Optical science
by Descartes, Newton, Euler, and Huyghens, required
the geometrical skill which those philosophers possessed.
And if Young and Fresnel had not been, each in his
peculiar way, persons of eminent mathematical endow­
ments, they would not have been able to bring the
Theory of Undulations and Interferences into a condi­
tion in which it could be tested by experiments. We
may see how unexpectedly recondite parts of pure mathe­
matics may bear upon physical science, by calling to
mind a circumstance already noticed in the History of
Science*;—that Fresnel obtained one of the most curious
confirmations of the theory (the laws of Circular Polar­
ization by reflection) through an interpretation of an
algebraical expression, which, according to the original
conventional meaning of the symbols, involved an im­
possible quantity. We have already remarked, that in
virtue of the principle of the generality of symbolical
language, such an interpretation may often point out
some real and important analogy.
9. From this rapid sketch it may be seen how
important an office in promoting the progress of the
physical sciences belongs to mathematics. Indeed in
the progress of many sciences, every step has been so
intimately connected with some advance in mathematics,
that we can hardly be surprized if some persons have
considered mathematical reasoning to be the most essen­
tial part of such sciences; and have overlooked the other
elements which enter into their formation. How erro-
• Hill. Ind. Sci., B. ix. c. xiii. sect. 2.
Digitized by Google
neous this view is we shall best see by turning our
attention to the other Ideas besides those of space, num­
ber, and motion, which enter into some of the most
conspicuous and admired portions of what is termed
exact science; and by showing that the clear and distinct
developement of such Ideas is quite as necessary to the
progress of exact and real knowledge as an acquaintance
with arithmetic and geometry.
INDUCTIVE APPLICATION OF MATHEMATICS. 163
M2
Digitized by Google
164
BOOK III.
TH E PH ILO SO PH Y OF THE M ECHANICAL
SCIENCES.
C h a p t e r I.
OF TH E M ECHANICAL SCIENCES.
In the History of the Sciences, that class of which we
here speak occupies a conspicuous and important place;
coming into notice immediately after those parts of astro­
nomy which require for their cultivation merely the
ideas of space, time, motion, and number. It appears
from our History, that certain truths concerning the
libriumof bodies were established by Archimedes;—that,
after a long interval of inactivity, his principles were
extended and pursued further in modern times:—and
that to these doctrines concerning equilibrium and the
forces which produce it, (which constitute the science
Statics,) were added many other doctrines concerning
the motions of bodies, considered also as produced by
forces, and thus the science of Dynamics was produced.
The assemblage of these sciences composes the province
of Mechanics. Moreover, philosophers have laboured to
make out the laws of the equilibrium of fluid, as well as
solid bodies; and hence has arisen the science of Hydro­
statics. And the doctrines of Mechanics have been found
to have a most remarkable bearing upon the motions
of the heavenly bodies; with reference to which, indeed,
they were at first principally studied. The explanation
Digitized by Googk
OF THE MECHANICAL SCIENCES. 165
of those cosmical facts by means of mechanical principles
and their consequences, forms the science of Physical
Astronomy. These are the principal examples of mecha­
nical science; although some other portions of Physics,
as Magnetism and Electrodynamics, introduce mecha­
nical doctrines very largely into their speculations.
Now in all these sciences we have to consider Forces.
In all mechanical reasonings forces enter, either as pro­
ducing motion, or as prevented from doing so by other
forces. Thus force, in its most general sense, is the cause
of motion, or of tendency to motion; and in order to
discover the principles on which the mechanical sciences
truly rest, we must examine the nature and origin of
our knowledge of Causes.
In these sciences, however, we have not to deal with
Cause in its more general acceptation, in which it applies
to all kinds of agency, material or immaterial;—to the
influence of thought and will, as well as of bodily pres­
sure and attractive force. Our business at present is
only with such causes as immediately operate upon
matter. We shall nevertheless, in the first place, con­
sider the nature of Cause in its most general form; and
afterwards narrow our speculations so as to direct them
specially to the mechanical sciences.
Ch a p t e r II.
OF TH E IDEA OF CAUSE.
1. We see in the world around us a constant suc­
cession of causes and effects connected with each other.
The laws of this connexion we learn in a great measure
from experience, by observation of the occurrences which
present themselves to our notice, succeeding one another.
Digitized by Google
But in doing this, and in attending to this succession of
appearances, of which we are aware by means of our
senses, we supply from our own minds the Idea of Cause.
This Idea, as we have already shown with respect to
other Ideas, is not derived from experience, but has its
origin in the mind itself;—is introduced into our expe­
rience by the active, and not by the passive part of our
nature.
By Cause we mean some quality, power, or efficacy,
by which a state of things produces a succeeding state.
Thus the motion of bodies from rest is produced by a
cause which we call Force: and in the particular case
in which bodies fall to the earth, this force is termed
Gravity. In these cases, the Conceptions of Force and
Gravity receive their meaning from the Idea of Cause
which they involve: for Force is conceived as the Cause
of Motion. That this Idea of Cause is not derived from
experience, we prove (as in former cases) by this con­
sideration : that we can make assertions, involving this
idea, which are rigorously necessary and universal;
whereas knowledge derived from experience can only be
true as far as experience goes, and can never contain in
itself any evidence whatever of its necessity. We assert
that “ Every event must have a cau sean d this proposi­
tion we know to be true, not only probably, and gene­
rally, and as far as we can see: but we cannot suppose
it to be false in any single instance. We are as certain
of it as of the truths of arithmetic or geometry. We
cannot doubt that it must apply to all events past and
future, in every part of the universe, just as truly as
to those occurrences which we have ourselves observed.
What causes produce what effects;—what is the cause
of any particular event;—what will be the effect of any
peculiar process;—these are points on which experience
may enlighten us. Observation and experience may be
166 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
Digitized by Google
OF THE IDEA OF CAUSE. 167
requisite, to enable us to judge respecting such matters.
But that every event has somecause, Expe
prove any more than she can disprove. She can add
nothing to the evidence of the truth, however often she
may exemplify it. This doctrine, then, cannot have been
acquired by her teaching; and the Idea of Cause, which
the doctrine involves, and on which it depends, cannot
have come into our minds from the region of observa­
tion.
2. That we do, in fact, apply the Idea of Cause in a
more extensive manner than could be justified, if it were
derived from experience only, is easily shown. For from
the principle that everything must have a cause, we not
only reason concerning the succession of the events which
occur in the progress of the world, and which form the
course of experience; but we infer that the world itself
must have a cause;—that the chain of events connected
by common causation, must have a First Cause of a
nature different from the events themselves. This we
are entitled to do, if our Idea of Cause be independent of,
and superior to, experience: but if we have no Idea of
Cause except such as we gather from experience, this
reasoning is altogether baseless and unmeaning.
3. Again; by the use of our powers of observation,
we are aware of a succession of appearances and events.
But none of our senses or powers of external observa­
tion can detect in these appearances the power or quality
which we call Cause. Cause is that which connects one
event with another; but no sense or perception discloses
to us, or can disclose, any connexion among the events
which we observe. We see that one occurrence follows
another, but we can never see anything which shows that
one occurrence must follow another. We have already
noticed *, that this truth has been urged by metaphy-
* Book i., cliap. xiii.
Digitized by Googk
sicians in modern times, and generally assented to by
those who examine carefully the connexion of their own
thoughts. The arguments are, indeed, obvious enough.
One ball strikes another and causes it to move forwards.
But by what compulsion ? Where is the necessity ? If
the mind can see any circumstance in this case which
makes the result inevitable, let this circumstance be
pointed out. But, in fact, there is no such discoverable
necessity; for we can conceive this event not to take
place at all. The struck ball may stand still, for aught
we can see. “ But the laws of motion will not allow it
to do so.” Doubtless they will not. But the laws of
motion are learnt from experience, and therefore can
prove no necessity. Why should not the laws of motion
be other than they are? Are they necessarily true?
That they are necessarily such as do actually regulate the
impact of bodies, is at least no obvious truth; and there­
fore this necessity cannot be, in common minds, the
ground of connecting the impact of one ball with the
motion of another. And assuredly, if this fail, no other
ground of such necessary connexion can be shown. In
this case, then, the events are not seen to be necessarily
connected. But if this case, where one ball moves another
by impulse, be not an instance of events exhibiting a
necessary connexion, we shall look in vain for any ex­
ample of such a connexion. There is, then, no case in
which events can be observed to be necessarily con­
nected : our idea of causation, which implies that the
event is necessarily connected with the cause, cannot be
derived from observation.
4. But it may be said, we have not any such Idea of
Cause, implying necessary connexion with effect, and a
quality by which this connexion is produced. We see
nothing but the succession of events; and by came we
mean nothing but a certain succession of events;—name­
168 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
Digitized by Google
OF THE IDEA OF CAUSE. 169
ly, a constant, unvarying succession. Cause and effect
are only two events of which the second invariably
follows the first. We delude ourselves when we ima­
gine that our idea of causation involves anything more
than this.
To this I reply by asking, what then is the meaning
of the maxim above quoted, and allowed by all to be
universally and necessarily true, that every event must
have a cause ? Let us put this maxim into the language
of the explanation just noticed; and it becomes this:—
“Every event must have a certain other event invariably
preceding it.” But why must it? Where is the neces­
sity ? Why must like events always be preceded by like,
except so far as other events interfere ? That there is
such a necessity, no one can doubt. All will allow that
if a stone ascend because it is thrown upwards in one
case, a stone which ascends in another case has also
been thrown upwards, or has undergone some equi­
valent operation. All will allow that in this sense,
every kind of event must have some other specific kind
of event preceding it. But this turn of men’s thoughts
shows that they see in events a connexion which is not
mere succession. They see in cause and effect, not
merely what does, often or always, precede and follow,
but what mustprecede and follow. The events are not
only conjoined, they are connected. The cause is more
than the prelude, the effect is more than the sequel, of
the fact. The cause is conceived not as a mere occa­
sion ; it is a power, an efficacy, which has a real ope­
ration.
5. Thus we have drawn from the maxim, that Every
Effect must have a Cause, arguments to show that we
have an Idea of Cause which is not borrowed from expe­
rience, and which involves more than mere succession.
Similar arguments might be derived from any other
Digitized by Google
maxims of universal and necessary validity, which we
can obtain concerning Cause: as, for example, the max­
ims that Causes are measured by their Effects, and that
Reaction is equal and opposite to Action. These maxims
we shall soon have to examine; but we may observe here,
that the necessary truth which belongs to them, shows
that they, and the Ideas which they involve, are not the
mere fruits of observation; while their meaning, including,
as it does, something quite different from the mere con­
ception of succession of events, proves that such a con­
ception is far from containing the whole import and
signification of our Idea of Cause.
The progress of the opinions of philosophers on the
points discussed in this chapter, has been one of the
most remarkable parts of the history of Metaphysics in
modern times: and I shall therefore briefly notice some
of its features.
170 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
C h a p t e r III.
MODERN OPINIONS RESPECTING T H E IDEA
OF CAUSE.
1. T o w a r d s the end of the seventeenth century there
existed in the minds of many of the most vigorous and
active speculators of the European literary world, a strong
tendency to ascribe, the whole of our Knowledge to the
teaching of Experience. This tendency, with its conse­
quences, including among them the reaction which was
produced when the tenet had been pushed to a length
manifestly absurd, has exercised a very powerful in­
fluence upon the progress of metaphysical doctrines up
to the present time. I proceed to notice some of the
most prominent of the opinions which have thus ob-
Digitized by Google
tamed prevalence among philosophers, so far as the Idea
of Cause is concerned.
Locke was one of the metaphysicians who produced
the greatest effect in diffusing this opinion, of the exclu­
sive dependence of our knowledge upon experience.
Agreeably to this general system, he taught* that our
ideas of Cause and Effect are got from observation of
the things about us. Yet notwithstanding this tenet of
his, he endeavoured still to employ these ideas in rea­
soning on subjects which are far beyond all limits of
experience: for he professed to prove, from our idea of
Causation, the existence of the Deityf.
Hume noticed this obvious inconsistency; but declared
himself unable to discover any remedy for a defect so
fatal to the most important parts of our knowledge. He
could see, in our belief of the succession of cause and
effect, nothing but the habit of associating in our minds
what had often been associated in our experience. He
therefore maintained that we could not, with logical
propriety, extend our belief of such a succession to cases
entirely distinct from all those of which our experience
consisted. We see, he said, an actual conjunction of two
events; but we can in no way detect a necessary con­
nexion; and therefore we have no means of inferring
cause from effect, or effect from cause}. The only way
in which we recognize Cause and Effect in the field of
our experience, is as an unfailing Sequence: we look in
vain for anything which can assure us of an infallible
Consequence. And since experience is the only source
of our knowledge, we cannot with any justice assert
that the world in which we live must necessarily have
had a cause.
2. This doctrine, taken in conjunction with the known
• Essay on the Human Understanding, B. If. c xxvi. t B. iv. c. x.
%Hume's Phil, of the Human Mind, V o l. i. p. 94.
OPINIONS RESPECTING THE IDEA OF CAUSE. 171
Digitized by Google
skepticism of its author on religious points, produced a
considerable fermentation in the speculative world. The
solution of the difficulty thus thrown before philosophers,
was by no means obvious. It was vain to endeavour to
find in experience any other property of a Cause, than a
constant sequence of the effect. Yet it was equally vain
to try to persuade men that they had no idea o f Cause;
or even to shake their belief in the cogency of the fami­
liar arguments concerning the necessity of an original
cause of all that is and happens. Accordingly these
hostile and apparently irreconcilable doctrines,— the in­
dispensable necessity of a cause of every event, and the
impossibility of our knowing such a necessity,— were at
last allowed to encamp side by side. Reid, Beattie, and
others, formed one party, who showed how widely and
constantly the idea of a cause pervades all the processes
of the human mind: while another sect, including Brown,
and apparently Stewart, maintained that this idea is
always capable of being resolved into a constant se­
quence ; and these latter reasoners tried to obviate the
dangerous and shocking inferences which some persons
might try to draw from their opinion, by declaring the
maxim that “Every event must have a cause,” to be an
instinctive law of belief, or a fundamental principle of
the human mind*.
3. While this series of discussions was going on in
Britain, a great metaphysical genius in Germany was
unravelling the perplexity in another way. Kant’s spe­
culations originated, as he informs us, in the trains of
thought to which Hume’s writings gave rise; and the
K ritik der Reinen Vemunfl, or Examination of the
Pure Reason, was published in 1787, with the view of
showing the true nature of our knowledge.
* Stewart's Active Powers, Vol. i. p. 347- Brown’s ,
V ol. i. p. 115.
172 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
Digitized by Googk
OPINIONS RESPECTING THE IDEA OF CAUSE. 1 7 3
Kants solution of the difficulties just mentioned
differs materially from that above stated. According to
Brown*, succession observed and cause inferred,—the
memory of past conjunctions of events and the belief of
similar future conjunctions,—are facts, independent, so
far as we can discover, but inseparably combined by a
law of our mental nature. According to Kant, causality
is an inseparable condition of our experience: a con­
nexion in events is requisite to our apprehending them
events. Future occurrences must be connected by causa­
tion as the past have been, because we cannot think of
past, present, and future, without such connexion. We
cannot fix the mind upon occurrences, without including
these occurrences in a series of causes and effects. The
relation of Causation is a condition under which we
think of events, as the relations of space are a condition
under which we see objects.
4. On a subject so abstruse, it is not easy to make
our distinctions very clear. Some of Brown’s illustrations
appear to approach very near to the doctrine of Kant.
Thus he saysf, “ The form of bodies is the relation of
their elements to each other in space,—the portei' of
bodies is their relation to each other in time.” Yet not­
withstanding such approximations in expression, the
Kantian doctrine appears to be different from the views
of Stewart and Brown, as commonly understood. Ac­
cording to the Scotch philosophers, the cause and the
effect are two things, connected in our minds by a law
of our nature. But this view requires us to suppose that
we can conceive the law to be absent, and the course of
events to be unconnected. If we can understand what is
the special force of this law, we must be able to imagine
what the case would be if the law were non-existing. We
must be able to conceive a mind which does not connect
• L ed.. Vol. i. p. 114. t L e d i. p. 127.
Digitized by Google
effects with causes. The Kantian doctrine, on the other
hand, teaches that we cannot imagine events liberated
from the connexion of cause and effect: this connexion is
a condition of our conceiving any real occurrences: we
cannot think of a real sequence of things, except as in­
volving the operation of causes. In the Scotch system,
the past and the future are in their nature independent,
but bound together by a rule; in the German system,
they share in a common nature and mutual relation, by
the act of thought which makes them past and future.
In the former doctrine cause is a tie which binds; in the
latter it is a character which pervades and shapes events.
The Scotch metaphysicians only assert the universality
of the relation; the German attempts further to explain
its necessity.
This being the state of the case, such illustrations as
that of Dr. Brown quoted above, in which he represents
came as a relation of the same kind with farm, do not
appear exactly to fit his opinions. Can the relations of
figure be properly said to be connected with each other
by a law of our nature, or a tendency of our mental con­
stitution ? Can we ascribe it to a law of our thoughts,
that we believe the three angles of a triangle to be equal
to two right angles? If so, we must give the same
reason for our belief that two straight lines cannot
inclose a space; or that three and two are five. But
will any one refer us to an ultimate law of our consti­
tution for the belief that three and two are five? Do
we not see that they are so, as plainly as we see that
they are three and two? Can we imagine laws of our
constitution abolished, so that three and two shall make
something different from five;—so that an inclosed space
shall lie between two straight lines;—so that the three
angles of a plane triangle shall be greater than two
right angles? We cannot conceive this. If the num-
1 7 4 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
Digitized by Googk
OPINIONS RESPFXTING TUE IDEA OF CAUSE. 175
bers arethree and two; if the lines are straight; if the
triangle is a rectilinear triangle, the consequences are
inevitable. We cannot even imagine the contrary. We
do not want a law to direct that things should be what
they are. The relation, then, of cause and effect, being
of the same kind as the necessary relations of figure and
number, is not properly spoken of as established in our
minds by a special law of our constitution: for we reject
that loose and inappropriate phraseology which speaks
of the relations of figure and number as “ determined by
Jaws of belief.”
5. In the present work, we accept and adopt, as the
basis of our inquiry concerning our knowledge, the exist­
ence of necessary truths concerning causes, as there exist
necessary truths concerning figure and number. We
find such truths universally established and assented to
among the cultivators of science, and among speculative
men in general. All mechanicians agree that reaction
is equal and opposite to action, both when one body
presses another, and when one body communicates mo­
tion to another. All reasoners join in the assertion, not
only that every observed change of motion has had a
cause, but that every change of motion must have a
cause. Here we have certain portions of substantial
and undoubted knowledge. Now the essential point in
the view which we must take of the idea of cause is
this,—that our view must be such as to form a solid
basis for our knowledge. We have, in the Mechanical
Sciences, certain universal and necessary truths on the
subject of causes. Now any view which refers our be­
lief in causation to mere experience or habit, cannot
explain the possibility of such necessary truths, since
experience and habit can never lead to a perception of
necessary connexion. But a view which teaches us to
acknowledge axioms concerning cause, as we acknow­
Digitized by Googk
ledge axioms concerning space, will lead us to look upon
the science of mechanics as equally certain and univer­
sal with the science of geometry; and will thus mate­
rially affect our judgment concerning the nature and
claims of our scientific knowledge.
Axioms concerning Cause, or concerning Force,
which as we shall see, is a modification of Cause, will
flow from an Idea of Cause, just as axioms concerning
space and number flow from the ideas of space and num­
ber or time. And thus the propositions which con­
stitute the science of Mechanics prove that we possess
an idea of cause, in the same sense in which the propo­
sitions of geometry and arithmetic prove our possession
of the ideas of space and of time or number.
6. The idea of cause, like the ideas of space and
time, is a part of the active powers of the mind. The
relation of cause and effect is a relation or condition
under which events are apprehended, which relation is
not given by observation, but supplied by the mind itself.
According to the views which explain our apprehension
of cause by reference to habit, or to a supposed law of
our mental nature, causal connexion is a consequence of
agencies which the mind passively obeys; but according
to the view to which we are led, this connexion is a
result of faculties which the mind actively exercises.
And thus the relation of cause and effect is a condition
of our apprehending successive events, a part of the
mind’s constant and universal activity, a source of neces­
sary truths; or, to sura all this in one phrase, a Funda­
mental Idea.
17G PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
Digitized by Googk
C h a p t e r IV.
OF THE AXIOMS W HICH RELATE TO THE IDEA
OF CAUSE.
1. Causes are abstract Conceptions.—W e have now
to express, as well as we can, the fundamental character
of that Idea of Cause, of which we have just proved the
existence. This may be done, at least for purposes of
reasoning, in this as in former instances, by means of
axioms. I shall state the principal axioms which belong
to this subject, referring the reader to his own thoughts
for the axiomatic evidence which belongs to them.
But I must first observe, that in order to express
general and abstract truths concerning cause and effect,
these terms, cause and effect, must be understood in a
general and abstract manner. When one event gives rise
to another, the first event is, in common language, often
called the cause, and the second the effect. Thus the
meeting of two billiard balls may be said to be the
cause of one of them turning aside out of the path in
which it was moving. For our present purposes, how­
ever, we must not apply the term cause to such occur­
rences as this meeting and turning, but to a certain
conception,force, abstracted from all such special events,
and considered as a quality or property by which one
body affects the motion of the other. And in like man­
ner in other cases, cause is to be conceived as some
abstract quality, power, or efficacy, by which change is
produced; a quality not identical with the events, but
disclosed by means of them. Not only is this abstract
mode of conceiving force and cause useful in expressing
the fundamental principles of science; but it supplies us
with the only'mode by which such principles can be
VOL. i. w. p. N
Digitized by Googk
1 7 8 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
stated in a general manner, and made to lead to sub­
stantial truth and real knowledge.
Understanding c
a
u
s
e, therefore, in this s
proceed to our Axioms.
2. First Axiom. Nothing can take place a
Cause.
Every event, of whatever kind, must have a Cause in
the sense of the term which we have just indicated; and
that it must, is a universal and necessary proposition to
which we irresistibly assent as soon as it is understood.
We believe each appearance to come into existence,—
we conceive every change to take place,—not only with
something preceding it, but something by which it is made
to be what it is. An effect without a cause;— an event
without a preceding condition involving the efficacy by
which the event is produced;—are suppositions which we
cannot for a moment admit. That the connexion of effect
with cause is universal and necessary, is a universal and
constant conviction of mankind. It persists in the minds
of all men, undisturbed by all the assaults of sophistry
and skepticism; and, as we have seen in the last chapter,
remains unshaken, even when its foundations seem to be
ruined. This axiom expresses, to a certain extent, our
Idea of Cause; and when that idea is clearly appre­
hended, the axiom requires no proof, and indeed admits
of none which makes it more evident. That notwith­
standing its simplicity, it is of use in our speculations, we
shall hereafter see; but in the first place, we must con­
sider the other axioms belonging to this subject.
3. Second Axiom. Effects are proportional to their
Causes, and Causes are measured by their Effects.
We have already said that cause is that quality or
power, in the circumstances of each case, by which the
effect is produced; and this power, an abstract property
of the condition of things to which it belongs, can in
Digitized by Googk
no way fall directly under the cognizance of the senses.
Cause, of whatever kind, is not apprehended as including
objects and events which share its nature by being co-ex­
tensive with certain portions of it, as space and time are.
It cannot therefore, like them, be measured by repeti­
tion of its own parts, as space is measured by repetition
of inches, and time by repetition of minutes. Causes may
be greater or less; as, for instance, the force of a man is
greater than the force of a child. But how much is the
one greater than the other? How are we to compare
the abstract conception, force, in such cases as these ?
To this, the obvious and only answer is, that we must
compare causes by means of their effects;—that we must
compare force by something which force can do. The
child can lift one fagot; the man can lift ten such fagots:
we have here a means of comparison. And whether or
not the rule is to be applied in this manner, that is, by
the number of the things operated on, (a question which
we shall have to consider hereafter,) it is clear that this
form of rule, namely, a reference to some effect or other
as our measure, is the right, because the only possible
form. The cause determines the effect. The cause being
the same, the effect must be the same. The connexion
of the two is governed by a fixed and inviolable rule.
It admits of no ambiguity. Every degree of intensity
in the cause has some peculiar modification of the effect
corresponding to it. Hence the effect is an unfailing
index of the amount of the cause; and if it be a mea­
surable effect, gives a measure of the cause. We can
have no other measure; but we need no other, for this
is exact, sufficient, and complete.
It may be said, that various effects are produced by
the same cause. The sun's heat melts wax and expands
quicksilver. The force qf gravity causes bodies to move
downwards if they are free, and to press down upon their
N 2
AXIOMS WHICH RELATE TO THE IDEA OF CAUSE. 179
Digitized by Google
supports if they are supported. Which of the effects is to
be taken as the measure of heat, or of gravity, in these
cases ? To this we reply, that if we had merely different
states of the same cause to compare, any of the effects
might be taken. The sun’s heat on different days might
be measured by the expansion of quicksilver, or by the
quantity of wax melted. The force of gravity, if it were
different at different places, might be measured by the
spaces through which a given weight would bend an
elastic support, or by the spaces through which a body
would fall in a given time. All these measures are con­
sistent with the general character of our idea of cause.
4. Limitation of the Second Axiom.—But there may
be circumstances in the nature of the case which may
further determine the kind of effect which we must take
for the measure of the cause. For example, if causes
are conceived to be of such a nature as to be capable of
addition, the effects taken as their measure must conform
to this condition. This is the case with mechanical
causes. The weights of two bodies are the causes of the
pressure which they exert downwards; and these weights
are capable of addition. The weight of the two is the
sum of the weight of each. We are therefore not at
liberty to say that weights shall be measured by the
spaces through which they bend a certain elastic support,
except we have first ascertained that the whole weight
bends it through a space equal to the sum of the inflec­
tions produced by the separate weights. Without this
precaution, we might obtain inconsistent results. Two
weights, each of the magnitude 3 as measured by their
effects, might, if we took the inflections of a spring for
the effects, be together equal to 5 or to 7 by the same
kind of measurement. For the inflection produced by
two weights of 3 might, for aught we can see before­
hand, be more or less than twice as great as the inflection
180 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
Digitized by Google
produced by one weight of 3. That forces are capable of
addition, is a condition which limits, and, as we shall see,
in some cases rigorously fixes, the kind of effects which
are to be taken as their measures.
Causes which are thus capable of addition are to be
measured by the repeated addition of equal quantities.
Two such causes are equal to each other when they pro­
duce exactly the same effect. So far our axiom is applied
directly. But these two causes can be added together;
and being thus added, they are double of one of them;
and the cause composed by addition of three such, is
three times as great as the first; and so on for any mea­
sure whatever. By this means, and by this means only,
we have a complete and consistent measure of those
causes which are so conceived as to be subject to this
condition of being added and multiplied.
Causes are, in the present chapter, to be understood
in the widest sense of the term; and the axiom now
under our consideration applies to them, whenever they
are of such a nature as to admit of any measure at all.
But the cases which we have more particularly in view
are mechanical causes, the causes of the motion and of
the equilibrium of bodies. In these cases, forces are con­
ceived as capable of addition; and what has been said of
the measure of causes in such cases, applies peculiarly to
mechanical forces. Two weights, placed together, may
be considered as a single weight, equal to the sum of the
two. Two pressures, pushing a body in the same direc­
tion at the same point, are identical in all respects with
some single pressure, their sum, pushing in like manner;
and this is true whether or not they put the body in
motion. In the cases of mechanical forces, therefore, we
take some certain effect, velocity generated or weight
supported, which may fix the unit of force; and we then
measure all other forces by the successive repetition of
AXIOMS WHICH RELATE TO TOE IDEA OF CAUSE. 181
Digitized by Google
this unit, as we measure all spaces by the successive
repetition of our unit of lineal measure.
But these steps in the formation of the science of
Mechanics will be further explained, when we come to
follow our axioms concerning cause into their application
in that science. At present we have, perhaps, suffi­
ciently explained the axiom that causes are measured
by their effects, and we now proceed to a third axiom,
also of great importance.
5. Third Axiom. Reaction is equal and opposite to
Action.
In the case of mechanical forces, the action of a
cause often takes place by an operation of one body
upon another; and in this case, the action is always and
inevitably accompanied by an opposite action. If I press
a stone with my hand, the stone presses my hand in
return. If one ball strike another and put it in motion,
the second ball diminishes the motion of the first. In
these cases the operation is mutual; the Action is ac­
companied by a Reaction. And in all such cases the
Reaction is a force of exactly the same nature as the
Action, exerted in an opposite direction. A pressure
exerted upon a body at rest is resisted and balanced by
another pressure; when the pressure of one body puts
another in motion, the body, though it yields to the force,
nevertheless exerts upon the pressing body a force like
that which it suffers.
Now the axiom asserts further, that this Reaction
is e
q
u
a
l, as well as opposite, to the Action. For the
Reaction is an effect of the Action, and is determined by
it. And since the two, Action and Reaction, are forces
of the same nature, each may be considered as cause
and as effect; and they must, therefore, determine each
other by a common rule. But this consideration leads
necessarily to their equality: for since the rule is mutual,
182 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
Digitized by Google
if we could for an instant suppose the Reaction to be
less than the Action, we must, by the same rule, sup­
pose the Action to be less than the Reaction. And thus
Action and Reaction, in every such case, are rigorously
equal to each other.
It is easily seen that this axiom is not a proposition
which is, or can be, proved by experience; but that its
truth is anterior to special observation, and depends on
our conception of Action and Reaction. Like our other
axioms, this has its source in an Idea; namely, the Idea
of Cause, under that particular condition in which cause
and effect are mutual. The necessary and universal
truth which we cannot help ascribing to the axiom, shows
that it is not derived from the stores of experience,
which can never contain truths of this character. Ac­
cordingly, it was asserted with equal confidence and
generality by those who did not refer to experience for
their principles, and by those who did. Leonicus Tomasus,
a commentator of Aristotle, whose work was published
in 1552, and therefore at a period when no right opinions
concerning mechanical reaction were current, at least
in his school, says, in his remarks on the Author’s Ques­
tions concerning the communication of motion, that
“ Reaction is equal and contrary to Action.” The same
'principle was taken for granted by all parties, in all the
controversies concerning the proper measure of force, of
which we shall have to speak: and would be rigorously
true, as a law of motion, whichever of the rival inter­
pretations of the measure of the term ‘'Action” we were
to take.
6. Extent of the Third Axiom.—It may naturally be
asked whether this third Axiom respecting causation
extends to any other cases than those of mechanical
action, since the notion of Cause in general has certainly
a much wider extent. For instance, when a hot body
AXIOMS WHICH RKLATE TO THE IDEA OK CAUSE. 183
Digitized by Google
heats a cold one, is there necessarily an equal reaction
of the second body upon the first? Does the snowball
cool the boy’s hand exactly as much as the hand heats
the snow ? To this we reply, that, in every case in which
one body acts upon another by its physical qualities, there
must be some reaction. No body can affect another
without being itself also affected. But in any physical
change the action exerted is an abstract term which may
be variously understood. The hot hand may melt a
cold body, or may rearm it : which kind of effect is to
be taken as action ? This remains to be determined by
other considerations.
In all cases of physical change produced by one body
in another, it is generally possible to assume such a
meaning of action, that the reaction shall be of the same
nature as the action; and when this is done, the third
axiom of causation, that reaction is equal to action, is
universally true. Thus if a hot body heat a cold one,
the change may be conceived as the transfer of a certain
substance, heat or caloric, from the first body to the
second. On this supposition, the first body loses just as
much heat as the other gains; action and reaction are
equal. But if the reaction be of a different kind to the
action we can no longer apply the axiom. If a hot body
melt a cold one, the latter cools the former: here, then, is'
reaction; but so long as the action and reaction are stated
in this form, we cannot assert any equality between them.
In treating of the secondary mechanical sciences, we
shall see further in what way we may conceive the
physical action of one body upon another, so that the
same axioms which are the basis of the science of
Mechanics shall apply to changes not at first sight mani­
festly mechanical.
The three axioms of causation which we have now
stated are the fundamental maxims of all reasoning con­
184 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
Digitized by Google
cerning causes as to their quantities; and it will be
shown in the sequel that these axioms form the basis of
the science of Mechanics, determining its form, extent,
and certainty. We must, however, in the first place,
consider how we acquire those conceptions upon which
the axioms now established are to be employed.
AXIOMS WHICU RELATE TO THE IDEA OF CAUSE. 185
C h a p t e r V.
OF THE ORIGIN OF OUR CONCEPTIONS OF
FORCE AND MATTER.
1. Force.— W h e n the faculties of observation and
thought are developed in man, the idea of causation is
applied to those changes which we see and feel in the
state of rest and motion of bodies around us. And
when our abstract conceptions are thus formed and
named, we adopt the term Force, and use it to
denote that property which is the cause of motion pro­
duced, changed, or prevented. This conception is, it
would seem, mainly and primarily suggested by our
consciousness of the exertions by which we put bodies
in motion. The Latin and Greek words for Force, Vis,
F it, were probably, like all abstract terms, derived at
first from some sensible object. The original meaning
of the Greek word was a muscle or tendon. Its first
application as an abstract term is accordingly to muscu­
lar force.
auT A7a< iro\v pei^ovn \aav aetpas
q»c' t'KiZtvtjaaK, eVe/>f«re FIN' aireXedpov. j
Then A jax a far heavier atone upheaved,
H e whirled it, and impressing Force intense
Upon the mass, dismist it.
The property by which bodies affect each other’s
motions, was naturally likened to that energy which we
Digitized by Googk
186 PHILOSOPHY OK THE MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
exert upon them with similar effect: and thus the labour­
ing horse, the rushing torrent, the descending weight, the
elastic bow, were said to exert force. Homer* speaks
of the forceof the river, Fit 7roTapoio ; and Hesiod+ of
the force of the north wind, FJ? a ven o u fiopeao.
Thus man’s general notion of force was probably first
suggested by his muscular exertions, that is, by an act
depending upon that muscular sense, to which, as we
have already seen, the perception of space is mainly due.
And this being the case, it will be easily understood that
the Direction of the force thus exerted is perceived by
the muscular sense, at the same time that the force itself
is perceived; and that the direction of any other force is
understood by comparison with force which man must
exert to produce the same effect, in the same manner as
force itself is so understood.
This abstract notion of Force long remained in a very
vague and obscure condition, as may be seen by referring
to the History for the failures of attempts at a science of
force and motion, made by the ancients and their com­
mentators in the middle ages. By degrees, in modern
times, we see the scientific faculty revive. The concep­
tion of Force becomes so far distinct and precise that it
can be reasoned upon in a consistent manner, with de­
monstrated consequences; and a genuine science of Me­
chanics comes into existence. The foundations of this
science are to be found in the Axioms concerning causa­
tion which we have already stated; these axioms being
interpreted and fixed in their application by a constant
reference to observed facts, as we shall show. But we
must, in the first place, consider further those primary
processes of observation by which we acquire the first
materials of thought on such subjects.
2. Mailer.—The conception of Force, as we have said,
* II. xxi. + Op. et D.
Digitized by Googk
ORIGIN OF CONCEPTIONS OF FORCE AND MATTER. 187
arises with our consciousness of our own muscular exer­
tions. But we cannot imagine such exertions without
also imagining some bodily substance against which they
are exercised. If we press, we press something: if we
thrust or throw, there must be something to resist the
thrust or to receive the impulse. Without body, mus­
cular force cannot be exerted and force in general is not
conceivable.
Thus Force cannot exist without Body on which it
acts. The two conceptions, Force and Matter, are co­
existent and correlative. Force implies resistance; and
the force is effective only when the resistance is called
into play. If we grasp a stone, we have no hold of it
till the closing of the hand is resisted by the solid tex­
ture of the stone. If we push open a gate, we must
surmount the opposition which it exerts while turning
on its hinges. However slight the resistance be, there
must be some resistance, or there would be no force.
If we imagine a state of things in which objects do not
resist our touch, they must also cease to be influenced
by our strength. Such a state of things we sometimes
imagine in our dreams; and such are the poetical pic­
tures of the regions inhabited by disembodied spirits. In
these, the figures which appear are conspicuous to the
eye, but impalpable like shadow or smoke; and as they
do not resist the corporeal impressions, so neither do
they obey them. The spectator tries in vain to strike
or to grasp them.
E t ni cana vates tenues sine corpore vitas
Admoneat voLitare cava sub imagine form«,
Irruat ac frustra ferro diverberet umbras. *
The Sibyl warns him that there round him fly
Bodiless things, but substance to the eye;
Else had he pierced those shapes with life-like face,
And smitten, fierce, the unresisting space.
Digitized by Google
Neque ilium
Prensantem nequicquam umbras et multa volentem
Dicere, preterea vidit.
He grasps her form, and clutches but the shade.
Such may be the circumstances of the unreal world of
dreams, or of poetical fancies approaching to dreams:
for in these worlds our imaginary perceptions are bound
by no rigid conditions of force and reaction. In such
cases, the mind casts off the empire of the idea of cause,
as it casts off even the still more familiar sway of the
ideas of space and time. But the character of the
material world in which we live when awake is, that we
have at every instant and at every place, force operating
on matter and matter resisting force.
3. Solidity.—From our consciousness of muscular
exertion, we derive, as we have seen, the conception of
force, and with that also the conception of matter. We
have already shown, in a former chapter, that the same
part of our frame, the muscular system, is the organ by
which we perceive extension and the relations of space.
Thus the same organ gives us the perception of body as
resisting force, and as occupying space; and by combin­
ing these conditions we have the conception of solid
extended bodies. In reality, this resistance is inevitably
presented to our notice in the very facts from which we
collect the notion of extension. For the action of the
hand and arm by which we follow the forms of objects,
implies that we apply our fingers to their surface; and
we are stopped there by the resistance which the body
offers. This resistance is precisely that which is requisite
iir order to make us conscious of our muscular effort*.
Neither touch, nor any other mere passive sensation,
could produce the perception of extent, as we have
already urged: nor could the muscular sense lead to such
* Browns Lectures, r. 46fi.
188 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
Digitized by Google
a perception, except the extension of the muscles were
felt to be resisted. And thus the perception of resistance
enters the mind along with the perception of extended
bodies. All the objects with which we have to do are
not only extended but solid.
This sense of the term solidity, (the general property
of all matter,) is different to that in which we oppose
solidity to fluidity. We may avoid ambiguity by op­
posing rigidto fluid bodies. By solid bodies, as we now
speak of them, we mean only such as resist the pressure
which we exert, so long as their parts continue in their
places. By fluid bodies, we mean those whose parts are,
by a slight pressure, removed out of their places. A drop
of water ceases to prevent the contact of our two hands,
not by ceasing to have solidity in this sense, but by being
thrust out of the way. If it could remain in its place,
it could not cease to exercise its resistance to our pres­
sure, except by ceasing to be matter altogether.
The perception of solidity, like the perception of
extension, implies an act of the mind, as well as an
impression of the senses: as the perception of extension
implies the idea of space, so the perception of solidity
implies the idea of action and reaction. That an Idea
is involved in our knowledge on this subject appears, as
in other instances, from this consideration, that the con­
victions of persons, even of those who allow of no ground
of knowledge but experience, do in fact go far beyond the
possible limits of experience. Thus Locke says*, that
“ the bodies which we daily handle hinder by an insur­
mountable force the approach of the parts of our hands
that press them.” Now it is manifest that our observa­
tion can never go to this length. By our senses we can
only perceive that bodies resist the greatest actual forces
that we exert upon them. But our conception of force
* Essay, B. n . c. 4.
ORIGIN OF CONCEPTIONS OF FORCE AND MATTER. 189
Digitized by Google
carries us further: and since, so long as the body is
there to receive the action of the force, it must suffer
the whole of that action, and must react as much as
it suffers: it is therefore true, that so long as the body
remains there, the force which is exerted upon it can
never surmount the resistance which the body exercises.
And thus this doctrine, that bodies resist the intrusion
of other bodies by an insurmountable force, is, in fact,
a consequence of the axiom that the reaction is always
equal to the action.
4. I
n
e
r
t
i
a.
—But this principle of the equality of
action and reaction appears also in another way. Not
only when we exert force upon bodies at rest, but when,
by our exertions, we put them in motion, they react. If
we set a large stone in motion, the stone resists; for the
operation requires an effort. By increasing the effort, we
can increase the effect, that is, the motion produced; but
the resistance still remains. And the greater the stone
moved, the greater is the effort requisite to move it.
There is, in every case, a resistance to motion, which shows
itself, not in preventing the motion, but in a reciprocal
force, exerted backwards upon the agent by which the
motion is produced. And this resistance resides in
each portion of matter, for it is increased as we add
one portion of matter to another. We can push a light
boat rapidly through the water; but we may go on
increasing its freight, till we are barely able to stir it.
This property of matter, then, by which it resists the
reception of motion, or rather by which it reacts and
requires an adequate force in order that any motion may
result, is called its inertness, or inertia, That matter has
such a property, is a conviction flowing from that idea of
a reaction equal and opposite to the action, which the
conception of all force involves. By what laws this
inertia depends on the magnitude, form, and material of
190 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICAL 8CIENCE8.
Digitized by Googk
the body, must be the subject of our consideration here­
after. But that matter has this inertia, in virtue of
which, as the matter is greater, the velocity which the
same effort can communicate to it is less, is a principle
inseparable from the notion of matter itself.
Hermann says that Kepler first introduced this “most
significant word” i
n
e
r
t
i
a. Whether it is to be found in
earlier writers I know not; Kepler certainly does use it
familiarly in those attempts to assign physical reasons
for the motions of the planets which were among the
main occasions of the discovery of the true laws of me­
chanics. He assumes the slowness of the motions of the
planets to increase, (other causes remaining the same,)
as the inertia increases; and though, even in this as­
sumption, there is an errour involved, (if we adopt that
interpretation of the term inertia to which subsequent
researches led,) the introduction of such a word was one
step in determining and expressing those laws of motion
which depend on the fundamental principle of the equality
of action and reaction.
5. We have thus seen, I trust in a satisfactory
manner, the origin of our conceptions of Force, Matter,
Solidity, and Inertness. It has appeared that the organ
by which we obtain such conceptions is that very mus­
cular frame, which is the main instrument of our percep­
tions of space; but that, besides bodily sensations, these
ideal conceptions, like all the others which we have
hitherto considered, involve also an habitual activity of
the mind, giving to our sensations a meaning which they
could not otherwise possess. And among the ideas thus
brought into play, is an idea of action with an equal and
opposite reaction, which forms a foundation for univer­
sal truths to be hereafter established respecting the
conceptions thus obtained.
We must now endeavour to trace in what manner
ORIGIN OF CONCEPTIONS OF FORCE ANU MATTER. 191
Digitized by Google
192 PHILOSOPHY OF THF MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
these fundamental principles and conceptions are un­
folded by means of observation and reasoning, till they
become an extensive yet indisputable science.
Chapter VI.
OF THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PRINCIPLES
OF STATICS.
1. Object of the Chapter.—In the present and the
succeeding chapters we have to show how the general
axioms of Causation enable us to construct the science
of Mechanics. We have to consider these axioms as
moulding themselves, in the first place, into certain fun­
damental mechanical principles, which are of evident
and necessary truth in virtue of their dependence upon
the general axioms of Causation ; and thus as forming a
foundation for the whole structure of the science;—a
system of truths no less necessary than the fundamen­
tal principles, because derived from these by rigorous
demonstration.
This account of the construction of the science of
Mechanics, however generally treated, cannot be other­
wise than technical in its details, and will probably be
imperfectly understood by any one not acquainted with
Mechanics as a mathematical science.
I cannot omit this portion of my survey without
rendering my work incomplete ; but I may remark that
the main purpose of it is to prove, in a more particular
manner, what I have already declared in general, that
there are, in Mechanics no less than in Geometry, funda­
mental principles of axiomatic evidence and necessity ;
—that these principles derive their axiomatic character
from the Idea which they involve, namely the Idea of
Digitized by Google
Cause;—and that through the combination of principles
of this kind, the whole science of Mechanics, including
its most complex and remote results, exists as a body of
solid and universal truths.
2. Statics andDynamics.—We must first turn our
attention to a technical distinction of Mechanics into
two portions, according as the forces about which we
reason produce rest, or motion; the former portion is
termed Statics, the latter Dynamics. If a stone fall,
or a weight put a machine in motion, the problem
belongs to Dynamics; but if the stone rest upon the
ground, or a weight be merely supported by a machine,
without being raised higher, the question is one of
Statics.
3. Equilibrium.—In Statics, forces balance each
other, or keep each other in equilibrium. And forces
which directly balance each other, or keep each other in
equilibrium, are necessarily and manifestly equal. If
we see two boys pull at two ends of a rope so that
neither of them in the smallest degree prevails over the
other, we have a case in which two forces are in equili­
brium. The two forces are evidently equal, and are a
statical exemplification of action and reaction, such as are
spoken of in the third axiom concerning causes. Now
the same exemplification occurs in every case of equili­
brium. No point or body can be kept at rest except in
virtue of opposing forces acting upon it ; and these forces
must always be equal in their opposite effect. When a
stone lies on the floor, the weight of the stone down­
wards is opposed and balanced by an equal pressure of
the floor upwards. If the stone rests on a slope, its
tendency to slide is counteracted by some equal and
opposite force, arising, it may be, from the resistance
which the sloping ground opposes to any motion along
its surface. Every case of rest is a case of equilibrium:
V O L . i . w . p . 0
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PRINCIPLES OF STATICS, l i f e
Digitized by Google
every case of equilibrium is a case of equal and opposite
forces.
The most complex frame-work on which weights are
supported, as the roof of a building, or the cordage of a
machine, are still examples of equilibrium. In such
cases we may have many forces all combining to balance
each other; and the equilibrium will depend on various
conditions of direction and magnitude among the forces.
And in order to understand what are these conditions,
we must ask, in the first place, what we understand by
the magnitude of such forces;—what is the measure of
statical forces.
4. Measure of- Statical Forces.—At first we might
expect, perhaps, that since statical forces come under the
general notion of Cause, the mode of measuring them
would be derived from the second axiom of Causation,
that causes are measured by their effects. But we find
that the application of this axiom is controlled by the
limitation which we noticed, after stating that axiom;
namely, the condition that the causes shall be capable of
addition. Further, as we have seen, a statical force pro­
duces no other effect than this, that it balances some
other statical force; and hence the measure of statical
forces is necessarily dependent upon their balancing,
that is, upon the equality of action and reaction.
That staticalforces are capable ofaddition is involved
in our conception of such forces. When two men pull
at a rope in the same direction, the forces which they
exert are added together. When two heavy bodies are
put into a basket suspended by a string, their weights
are added, and the sum is supported by the string.
Combining these considerations, it will appear that
the measure of statical forces is necessarily given at once
by the fundamental principle of the equality of action
and reaction. Since two opposite forces which balance
1 9 4 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
Digitized by Google
each other are equal, each force is measured by that
which it balances; and since forces are capable of addi­
tion, a force of any magnitude is measured by adding to­
gether a proper number of such equal forces. Thus a
heavy body which, appended to some certain elastic
branch of a tree, would bend it down through one inch,
may be taken as a unit of weight. Then if we remove
this first body, and find a second heavy body which will
also bend the branch through the same space, this is also
a unit of weight; and in like manner we might go on to
a third and a fourth equal body; and adding together
the two, or the three, or the four heavy bodies, we have
a force twice, or three times, or four times the unit of
weight. And with such a collection of heavy bodies, or
weights, we can readily measure all other forces; for the
same principle of the equality of action and reaction
leads at once to this maxim, that any statical force is
measured by the weight which it would support.
As has been said, it might at first have been sup­
posed that we should have to apply, in this case, the
axiom that causes are measured by their effects in an­
other manner; that thus, if that body were a unit of
weight which bent the bough of a tree through one inch,
that body would be two units which bent it through two
inches, and so on. But, as we have already stated, the
measures of weight must be subject to this condition,
that they are susceptible of being added: and therefore
we cannot take the deflexion of the bough for our mea­
sure, till we have ascertained, that which experience
alone can teach us, that under the burden of two equal
weights, the deflexion will be twice as great as it is with
one weight, which is not true, or at least is neither ob­
viously nor necessarily true. In this, as in all other cases,
although causes must be measured by their effects, we
learn from experience only how the effects are to be
o 2
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PRINCIPLES OF STATICS. 195
Digitized by Googk
interpreted, so as to give a true and consistent mea­
sure.
With regard, however, to the measure of statical
force, and of weight, no difficulty really occurred to phi­
losophers from the time when they first began to specu­
late on such subjects; for it was easily seen that if we
take any uniform material, as wood, or stone, or iron,
portions of this which are geometrically equal, must also
be equal in statical effect; since this was implied in the
very hypothesis of a uniform material. And a body ten
times as large as another of the same substance, will be
of ten times the weight. But before men could esta­
blish by reasoning the conditions under which weights
would be in equilibrium, some other principles were
needed in addition to the mere measure of forces. The
principles introduced for this purpose still resulted from
the conception of equal action and reaction; but it re­
quired no small clearness of thought to select them
rightly, and to employ them successfully. This, however,
was done, to a certain extent, by the Greeks; and the
treatise of Archimedes OnCenter of
founded on principles which may still be considered as
the genuine basis of statical reasoning. I shall make a
few remarks on the most important principle among
those which Archimedes thus employs.
5. The Center of Gravity.—The most important of
the principles which enter into the demonstration of
Archimedes is this: that “ Every body has a center of
gravity;” meaning by the center of gravity, a point at
which the whole matter of the body may be supposed to
be collected, to all intents and purposes of statical
reasoning. This principle has been put in various forms
by succeeding writers: for instance, it has been thought
sufficient to assume a case much simpler than the general
one; and to assert that two equal bodies have their
19G p h il o so p h y o f t h e m e c h a n ic a l sc ie n c e s.
Digitized by Google
center of gravity in the point midway between them. It
is to be observed, that this assertion not only implies
that the two bodies will balance upon a support placed
at that midway point, but also, that they will exercise,
upon such a support, a pressure equal to their sum;
for this point being the center of gravity, the whole
matter of the two bodies may be conceived to be col­
lected there, and therefore the whole weight will press
there. And thus the principle in question amounts to
this, that when two equal heavy bodies are supported on
the middle point between them, the pressure upon the
support is equal to the sum of the weights of the bodies.
A clear understanding of the nature and grounds of
this principle is of great consequence: for in it we have
the foundation of a large portion of the science of
Mechanics. And if this principle can be shown to be
necessarily true, in virtue of our Fundamental Ideas, we
can hardly doubt that there exist many other truths of
the same kind, and that no sound view of the evidence
and extent of human knowledge can be obtained, so long
as we mistake the nature of these, its first principles.
The above principle, that the pressure on the support
is equal to the sum of the bodies supported, is often
stated as an axiom in the outset of books on Mechanics.
And this appears to be the true place and character of
this principle, in accordance with the reasonings which
we have already urged. The axiom depends upon our
conception of action and reaction. That the two weights
are supported, implies that the supporting force must be
equal to the force or weight supported.
In order further to show the foundation of this
principle, we may ask the question:—If it be not an
axiom, deriving its truth from the fundamental concep­
tion of equal action and reaction, which equilibrium
always implies, what is the origin of its certainty ? The
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PRINCIPLES OF STATICS. 197
Digitized by Googk
198 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
principle is never for an instant denied or questioned; it is
taken for granted, even before it is stated. No one will
doubt that it is not only true, but true with the same
rigour and universality as the axioms of Geometry. Will
it be said, that it is borrowed from experience ? Expe­
rience could never prove a principle to be universally
and rigorously true. Moreover, when from experience
we prove a proposition to possess great exactness and
generality, we approach by degrees to this proof: the
conviction becomes stronger, the truth more secure, as
we accumulate trials. But nothing of this kind is the
case in the instance before us. There is no gradation
from less to greater certainty;—no hesitation which
precedes confidence. From the first, we know that the
axiom is exactly and certainly true. In order to be
convinced of it, we do not require many trials, but
merely a clear understanding of the assertion itself.
But in fact, not only are trials not necessary to the
proof, but they do not strengthen it. Probably no
one ever made a trial for the purpose of showing that
the pressure upon the support is equal to the sum of the
two weights. Certainly no person with clear mechanical
conceptions ever wanted such a trial to convince him of
the truth ; or thought the truth clearer after the trial
had been made. If to such a person, an experiment
were shown which seemed to contradict the principle, his
conclusion would be, not that the principle was doubtful,
but that the apparatus was out of order. Nothing can
be less like collecting truth from experience than this.
We maintain, then, that this equality of mechanical
action and reaction, is one of the principles which do
not flow from, but regulate our experience. To this
principle, the facts which we observe must conform;
and we cannot help interpreting them in such a manner
that they shall be exemplifications of the principle. A
Digitized by Googk
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PRINCIPLES OF STATICS. 199
mechanical pressure not accompanied by an equal and
opposite pressure, can no more be given by experience,
than two unequal right angles. With the supposition of
such inequalities, space ceases to be space, force ceases to
be force, matter ceases to be matter. And this equality
of action and reaction, considered in the case in which
two bodies are connected so as to act on a single support,
leads to the axiom which we have stated above, and
which is one of the main foundations of the science of
Mechanics.
6. Oblique Forces.—By the aid of this axiom and
a few others, the Greeks made some progress in the
science of Statics. But after a short advance, they
arrived at another difficulty, that of Oblique Forces,
which they never overcame; and which no mathematician
mastered till modern times. The unpublished manuscripts
of Leonardo da Vinci, written in the fifteenth century,
and the works of Stevinus and Galileo, in the sixteenth,
are the places in which we find the first solid grounds of
reasoning on the subject of forces acting obliquely to
each other. And mathematicians, having thus become
possessed of all the mechanical principles which are
requisite in problems respecting equilibrium, soon framed
a complete science of Statics. Succeeding writers pre­
sented this science in forms variously modified; for it
was found, in Mechanics as in Geometry, that various
propositions might be taken as the starting points; and
that the collection of truths which it was the mecha­
nician’s business to include in his course, might thus be
traversed by various routes, each path offering a series
of satisfactory demonstrations. The fundamental con­
ceptions of force and resistance, like those of space and
number, could be contemplated under different aspects,
each of which might be made the basis of axioms,
or of principles employed as axioms. Hence the
Digitized by Google
grounds of the truth of Statics may be stated in various
ways; and it would be a task of some length to examine
all these completely, and to trace them to their Funda­
mental Ideas. This I shall not undertake here to do;
but the philosophical importance of the subject makes
it proper to offer a few remarks on some of the main
principles involved in the different modes of presenting
Statics as a rigorously demonstrated science.
7. A Force may be supposed to act at any Point ofits
Direction.—It has been stated in the history of Mecha­
nics*, that Leonardo da Vinci and Galileo obtained the
true measure of the effect of oblique forces, by reason­
ings which were, in substance, the same. The principle
of these reasonings is that expressed at the head of this
paragraph; and when we have a little accustomed our­
selves to contemplate our conceptions of force, and its
action on matter, in an abstract manner, we shall have
no difficulty in assenting to the principle in this general
form. But it may, perhaps, be more obvious at first in
a special case.
If we suppose a wheel, moveable about its axis, and
carrying with it in its motion a weight, (as, for example,
one of the wheels by means of which the large bells of a
church are rung,) this weight may be supported by means
of a rope (not passing along the circumference of the
wheel, as is usual in the case of bells,) but fastened to
one of the spokes of the wheel. Now the principle which
is enunciated above asserts, that if the rope pass in a
straight line across several of the spokes of the wheel, it
makes no difference in the mechanical effect of the force
applied, for the purpose of putting the bell in motion, to
which of these spokes the rope isfastened. In each case,
the fastening of the rope to the wheel merely serves to
enable the force to produce motion about the centre;
* Hist, Ind. Sci.) B. vi. c. i. sect. 2. and N ote (A ).
200 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
Digitized by Googk
and so long as the force acts in the same line, the effect
is the same, at whatever point of the rope the line of
action finishes.
This axiom very readily aids us in estimating the
effect of oblique forces. For when a force acts on one of
the arms of a lever at any oblique angle, we suppose
another arm projecting from the centre of motion, like
another spoke of the same wheel, so situated that it is
perpendicular to the force. This arm we may, with
Leonardo, call the virtual lever; for, by the axiom, we
may suppose the force to act where the line of its direc­
tion meets this arm; and thus we reduce the case to
that in which the force acts perpendicularly on the arm.
The ground of this axiom is, that matter, in Statics,
is necessarily conceived as transmitting force. That force
can be transmitted from one place to another, by means
of matter;—that we can push with a rod, pull with a
rope,—are suppositions implied in our conceptions of
force and matter. Matter is, as we have said, that which
receives the impression of force, and the modes just
mentioned, are the simplest ways in which that impres­
sion operates. And since, in any of these cases, the force
might be resisted by a reaction equal to the force itself,
the reaction in each case would be equal, and, therefore,
the action in each case is necessarily equal; and thus the
forces must be transmitted, from one point to another,
without increase or diminution.
This property of matter, of transmitting the action of
force, is of various kinds. We have the coherence of a
rope which enables us to pull, and the rigidity of a staff,
which enables us to push with it in the direction of its
length; and again, the same staffhas a rigidity of another
kind, in virtue of which we can use it as a lever; that is, a
rigidity to resist flexure, and to transmit the force which
turns a body round a fulcrum. There is, further, the
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PRINCIPLES OF STATICS. 201
Digitized by Googk
rigidity by which a solid body resists twisting. Of these
kinds of rigidity, the first is that to which our axiom
refers; but in order to complete the list of the ele­
mentary principles of Statics, we ought also to lay down
axioms respecting the other kinds of rigidity*. These,
however, I shall not here state, as they do not involve
any new principle. Like the one just considered, they
form part of our fundamental conception of matter; they
are not the results of any experience, but are the hypo­
theses to which we are irresistibly led, when we would
liberate our reasonings concerning force and matter from
a dependence on the special results of experience. We
cannot even conceive (that is, if we have any clear
mechanical conceptions at all) the force exerted by the
point of a staff and resisting the force which we steadily
impress on the head of it, to be different from the
impressed force.
8. Forces may have equivalent Forces substitutedfor
them. The Parallelogram ofForces.—It has already been
observed, that in order to prove the doctrines of Statics,
we may take various principles as our starting points,
and may still find a course of demonstration by which
the leading propositions belonging to the subject may
be established. Thus, instead of beginning our reason­
ings, as in the last section we supposed them to
commence, with the case in which forces act upon
different points of the same body in the same line of
force, and counteract each other in virtue of the inter­
vening matter by which the effect of force is transferred
from one point to another, we may suppose different
forces to act at the same point, and may thus commence
our reasonings with a case in which we have to con­
template force, without having to take into our account
* Such axioms are given in a little work (The Mechanical )
which I published on the Elements of Mechanics.
202 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
Digitized by Google
the resistance or rigidity of matter. Two statical forces,
thus acting at a mathematical point, are equivalent, in
all respects, to some single force acting at the same point;
and would be kept in equilibrium by a force equal and
opposite to that single force. And the rule by which
the single force is derived from the two, is commonly
termed theparallelogram qfforthe proposit
this,—That if the two forces be represented in magnitude
and direction by the two sides of a parallelogram, the
resulting force will be represented in the same manner
by the diagonal of the parallelogram. This proposition
has very frequently been made, by modern writers, the
commencement of the science of Mechanics : a position
for which, by its simplicity, it is well suited ; although,
in order to deduce from it the other elementary proposi­
tions of the science, as, for instance, those respecting the
lever, we require the axiom stated in the last section.
9. The Parallelogram of Forces is a necessary Truth.
— In the series of discussions in which we are here
engaged, our main business is to ascertain the nature and
grounds of the certainty of scientific truths. We have,
therefore, to ask whether this proposition, the parallelo­
gram of forces, be a necessary truth ; and if so, on what
grounds its necessity ultimately rests. We shall find
that this, like the other fundamental doctrines of Statics,
justly claims a demonstrative certainty. Daniel Ber­
noulli, in 1726, gave the first proof of this important
proposition on pure statical principles; and thus, as he
says*, “ proved that statical theorems are not less
necessarily true than geometrical are.” If we examine
this proof of Bernoulli, in order to discover what are
the principles on which it rests, we shall find that the
reasoning employs in its progress such axioms as this ;—
That if from forces which are in equilibrium at a point
• Comm. Pelrop. Vol. i.
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PRINCIPLES OF STATICS. 203
Digitized by Google
be taken away other forces which are in equilibrium at
the same point, the remainder will be in equilibrium;
and generally;—That if forces can be resolved into other
equivalent forces, these may be separated, grouped, and
recombined, in any new manner, and the result will still
be identical with what it was at first. Thus in Ber­
noulli’s proof, the two forces to be compounded are repre­
sented by p and q ; p is resolved into two other forces, x
and u ; and q into two others, Y and v, under certain
conditions. It is then assumed that these forces may be
grouped into the pairs x, Y, and u, v : and when it has
been shown that x and y are in equilibrium, they may, by
what has been said, be removed, and the forces, p, q, are
equivalent to u, v ; which, being in the same direction
by the course of the construction, have a result equal to
their sum.
It is clear that the principles here assumed are
genuine axioms, depending upon our conception of the
nature of equivalence of forces, and upon their being
capable of addition and composition. If the forces r, Q
,
be equivalent to forces x, u, Y, v, they are equivalent to
these forces added and compounded in any order; just
as a geometrical figure is, by our conception of space,
equivalent to its parts added together in any order. The
apprehension of forces as having magnitude, as made
up of parts, as capable of composition, leads to such
axioms in Statics, in the same manner as the like
apprehension of space leads to the axioms of Geometry.
And thus the truths of Statics, resting upon such founda­
tions, are independent of experience in the same manner
in which geometrical truths are so.
The proof of the parallelogram of forces thus given
by Daniel Bernoulli, as it was the first, is also one of
the most simple proofs of that proposition which have
been devised up to the present day. Many other demon­
204 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
Digitized by Google
ESTABLISHMENT OF TOE PRINCIPLES OF STATICS. 205
strations, however, have been given of the same proposi­
tion. Jacobi, a German mathematician, has collected
and examined eighteen of these*. They all depend
either upon such principles as have just been stated;
That forces may in every way be replaced by those which
are equivalent to them;— or else upon those previously
stated, the doctrine of the lever, and the transfer of a
force from one point to another of its direction. In
either case, they are necessary results of our statical con­
ceptions, independent of any observed laws of motion,
and indeed, of the conception of actual motion altogether.
There is another class of alleged proofs of the paral­
lelogram of forces, which involve the consideration of
the motion produced by the forces. But such reasonings
are, in fact, altogether irrelevant to the subject of Statics.
In that science, forces are not measured by the motion
which they produce, but by the forces which they will
balance, as we have already seen. The combination of
two forces employed in producing motion in the same
body, either simultaneously or successively, belongs to
that part of Mechanics which has motion for its subject,
and is to be considered in treating of the laws of motion.
The composition of motion, (as when a man moves in a
ship while the ship moves through the water,) has con­
stantly been confounded with the composition of force.
But though it has been done by very eminent mathe­
maticians, it is quite necessary for us to keep the two
subjects distinct, in order to see the real nature of the
evidence of truth in either case. The conditions of equi­
librium of two forces on a lever, or of three forces at
• These are by the following mathematicians; D. Bernoulli
(1726); Lambert (1771); Scarella (1756); Venini (1764); Araldi
(1806); Wachter (1815); K sstncr; Marini; Eytelwein; Salimbcni;
Duchayla; two different proofs by Fonccnex (1760); three by
D’Alembert; and those of Laplace and M. Poisson.
Digitized by Googk
a point, can be established without any reference what*
ever to any motions which the forces might, under other
circumstances, produce. And because this can be done,
to do so is the only scientific procedure. To prove such
propositions by any other course, would be to support
truth by extraneous and inconclusive reasons; which
would be foreign to our purpose, since we seek not only
knowledge, but the grounds of our knowledge.
10. The Center qf gravity seeks the lowest place.—
The principles which we have already mentioned afford
a sufficient basis for the science of Statics in its most
extensive and varied applications; and the conditions of
equilibrium of the most complex combinations of ma­
chinery may be deduced from these principles with a
rigour not inferior to that of geometry. But in some of
the more complex cases, the results of long trains of
reasoning may be foreseen, in virtue of certain maxims
which appear to us self-evident, although it may not be
easy to trace the exact dependence of these maxims upon
our fundamental conceptions of force and matter. Of
this nature is the maxim now stated;—That in any com­
bination of matter any how supported, the Center of
Gravity will descend into the lowest position which the
connexion of the parts allows it to assume by descend­
ing. It is easily seem that this maxim carries to a much
greater extent the principle which the Greek mathe­
maticians assumed, that every body has a Center of
Gravity, that is, a point in which, if the whole matter of
the body be collected, the effect will remain unchanged.
For the Greeks asserted this of a single rigid mass only;
whereas, in the maxim now under our notice, it is asserted
of any masses, connected by strings, rods, joints, or in
any manner. We have already seen that more modern
writers on mechanics, desirous of assuming as funda­
mental no wider principles than are absolutely necessary,
2 0 6 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
Digitized by Google
have not adopted the Greek axiom in all its generality,
but have only asserted that two equal weights have a
center of gravity midway between them. Yet the prin­
ciple that every body, however irregular, has a center of
gravity, and will be supported if that center is supported,
and not otherwise, is so far evident, that it might be
employed as a fundamental truth, if we could not resolve
it into any simpler truths: and, historically speaking, it
was assumed as evident by the Greeks. In like manner
the still wider principle, that a collection of bodies, as,
for instance, a flexible chain hanging upon one or more
supports, has a center of gravity; and that this point
will descend to the lowest possible situation, as a single
body would do, has been adopted at various periods in
the history of mechanics; and especially at conjunctures
when mathematical philosophers have had new and dif­
ficult problems to contend with. For in almost every
instance it has only been by repeated struggles that phi­
losophers have reduced the solution of such problems to
a clear dependence upon the most simple axioms.
11. Stevinus'sProoffor Oblique Forces.—We have
an example of this mode of dealing with problems, in
Stevinus’s mode of reasoning concerning the Inclined
Plane; which, as we have stated in the History of Me­
chanics, was the first correct published solution of that
problem. Stevinus supposes a loop of chain, or a loop
of string loaded with a series of equal balls at equal dis­
tances, to hang over the Inclined Plane; and his reason­
ing proceeds upon this assumption,—That such a loop
so hanging will find a certain position in which it will
rest: for otherwise, says he*, its motion must go on for
ever, which is absurd. It may be asked how this absurd­
ity of a perpetual motion appears; and it will perhaps
be added, that although the impossibility of a machine
• Stevin. Statique, Livre T., prop. 19.
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PRINCIPLES OF STATICS. 207
Digitized by Googk
with such a condition may be proved as a remote result
of mechanical principles, this impossibility can hardly
be itself recognized as a self-evident truth. But to this
we may reply, that the impossibility is really evident in
the case contemplated by Stevinus; for we cannot con­
ceive a loop of chain to go on through all eternity, slid­
ing round and round upon its support, by the effect of
its own weight. And the ground of our conviction that
this cannot be, seems to be this consideration; that when
the chain moves by the effect of its weight, we consider
its motion as the result of an effort to reach some certain
position, in which it can rest; just as a single ball in
a bowl moves till it comes to rest at the lowest point
of the bowl. Such an effect of weight in the chain, we
may represent to ourselves by conceiving all the matter
of the chain to be collected in one single point, and this
single heavy point to hang from the support in some way
or other, so as fitly to represent the mode of support of
the chain. In whatever manner this heavy point (the
center of gravity of the chain) be supported and con­
trolled in its movements, there will still be some position
of rest which it will seek and find. And thus there will
be some corresponding position of rest for the chain; and
the interminable shifting from one position to another,
with no disposition to rest in any position, cannot exist.
Thus the demonstration of the property of the
Inclined Plane by Stevinus, depends upon a principle
which, though far from being the simplest of those to
which the case can be reduced, is still both true and
evident: and the evidence of this principle, depending
upon the assumption of a center of gravity, is of the
same nature as the evidence of the Greek statical demon­
strations, the earliest real advances in the science.
12. Principle of Virtual Velocities.—We have
referred above to an assertion often made, that we
208 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
Digitized by Google
may, from the simple principles of Mechanics, demon­
strate the impossibility of a perpetual motion. In reality,
however, the simplest proof of that impossibility, in
a machine acted upon by weight only, arises from the
very maxim above stated, that the center of gravity seeks
and finds the lowest place ; or from some similar propo­
sition. For if, as is done by many writers, we profess
to prove the impossibility of a perpetual motion by means
of that proposition which includes the conditions of equi­
librium, and is called the Principle of Virtual
we are under the necessity of first proving in a general
manner that principle. And if this be done by a mere
enumeration of cases, (as by taking those five cases which
are called the Mechanical Powers,) there may remain
some doubts whether the enumeration of possible mecha­
nical combinations be complete. Accordingly,some writers
have attempted independent and general proofs of the
Principle of Virtual Velocities; and these proofs rest
upon assumptions of the same nature as that now under
notice. This is, for example, the case with Lagrange’s
proof which depends upon what he calls the Principle
of Pulleys. For this principle is,—That a weight any
how supported, as by a string passing round any number
of pulleys any how placed, will be at rest then only,
when it cannot get lower by any small motion of the
pulleys. And thus the maxim that a weight will descend
if it can, is assumed as the basis of this proof.
There is, as we have said, no need to assume such
principles as these for the foundation of our mechanical
science. But it is, on various accounts, useful to direct
our attention to those cases in which truths, apprehended
at first in a complex and derivative form, have after­
wards been reduced to their simpler elements ;—in which,
also, sagacious and inventive men have fixed upon those
* See Hist. Ind. S c i B. vi. c. îi. sect. 4.
VOL. I. W. P. P
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PRINCIPLES OF STATICS 209
Digitized by Google
truths as self-evident, which now appear to us only cer­
tain in virtue of demonstration. In these cases we can
hardly doubt that such men were led to assert the
doctrines which they discovered, not by any capricious
conjecture or arbitrary selection, but by having a keener
and deeper insight than other persons into the relations
which were the object of their contemplation ; and in the
science now spoken of, they were led to their assump­
tions by possessing clearly and distinctly the conceptions
of mechanical cause and effect,—action and reaction,—
force, and the nature of its operation.
13. Fluids press Equally in all Directions.—The
doctrines which concern the equilibrium of fluids depend
on principles no less certain and simple than those which
refer to the equilibrium of solid bodies; and the Greeks,
who, as we have seen, obtained a clear view of some of
the principles bf Statics, also made a beginning in the
kindred subject of Hydrostatics. We still possess a trea­
tise of Archimedes On Floating Bodies, which contains
correct solutions of several problems belonging to this
subject, and of some which are by no means easy. In
this treatise, the fundamental assumption is of this kind:
“ Let it be assumed that the nature of a fluid is such,
that the parts which are less pressed yield to those which
are more pressed.” In this assumption or axiom it is
implied that a pressure exerted upon a fluid in one direc­
tion produces a pressure in another direction; thus, the
weight of the fluid which arises from a downward force
produces a lateral pressure against the sides of the con­
taining vessel. Not only does the pressure thus diverge
from its original direction into all other directions, but the
pressure, is in all directions exactly equal, an equal extent
of the fluid being taken. This principle, which was in­
volved in the reasoning of Archimedes, is still to the
present day the basis of all hydrostatical treatises, and is
210 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
Digitized by Google
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PRINCIPLES OF STATICS. 2 11
expressed, as above, by saying that fluids press equally
in all directions.
Concerning this, as concerning previously-noticed
principles, we have to ask whether it can rightly be said
to be derived from experience. And to this the answer
must still be, as in the former cases, that the proposition
is not one borrowed from experience in any usual or
exact sense of the phrase. I will endeavour to illustrate
this. There are many elementary propositions in phy­
sics, our knowledge of which indisputably depends upon
experience; and in these cases there is no difficulty in
seeing the evidence of this dependence. In such cases,
the experiments which prove the law are prominently
stated in treatises upon the subject: they are given with
exact measures, and with an account of the means by
which errors were avoided: the experiments of more
recent times have either rendered more certain the law
originally asserted, or have pointed out some correction
of it as requisite: and the names, both of the discoverers
of the law and of its subsequent reformers, are well
known. For instance, the proposition that “ The elastic
force of air varies as the density,” was first proved by
Boyle, by means of operations of which the detail is given
in his Defence of his Pneumatical Experiments *; and
by Marriotte in his Traité de VEquilibre des Liquides,
from whom it has generally been termed Marriotte’s law.
After being confirmed by many other experimenters,
this law was suspected to be slightly inaccurate, and a
commission of the French Academy of Sciences was
appointed, consisting of several distinguished philoso-
phersf, to ascertain the truth or falsehood of this suspicion.
• Shaw’s Boyle, Vol. ir. p. 671-
t The members were Prony, Arago, Ampere, Girard, and Dulong.
The experiments were extended to a pressure of twenty-seven atmo­
spheres ; and in no instance did the difference between the observed
P 2
Digitized by Googk
The result of their investigations appeared to be, that
the law is exact, as nearly as the inevitable inaccuracies
of machinery and measures will allow us to judge. Here
we have an example of a law which is of the simplest
kind and form; and which yet is not allowed to rest
upon its simplicity or apparent probability, but is rigor­
ously tested by experience. In this case, the assertion,
that the law depends upon experience, contains a refer­
ence to plain and notorious passages in the history of
science.
Now with regard to the principle that fluids press
equally in all directions, the case is altogether different.
It is, indeed, often asserted in works on hydrostatics,
that the principle is collected from experience, and some­
times a few experiments are described as exhibiting its
effect; but these are such as to illustrate and explain,
rather than to prove, the truth of the principle: they
are never related to have been made with that exact­
ness of precaution and measurement, or that frequency
of repetition, which are necessary to establish a purely
experimental truth. Nor did such experiments occur as
important steps in the history of science. It does not
appear that Archimedes thought experiment necessary
to confirm the truth of the law as he employed it : on
the contrary, he states it in exactly the same shape as
the axioms which he employs in statics, and even in geo­
metry ; namely, as an assumption. Nor does any intel­
ligent student of the subject find any difficulty in assent­
ing to this fundamental- principle of hydrostatics as soon
as it is propounded to him. Experiment was not requi­
site for its discovery; experiment is uot necessary for
its proof at present; and we may add, that experiment,
and calculated elasticity amount to one-hundredth of the whole; nor
did the difference appear to increase with the increase of pressure.—
Fechner, Repertorium, i. 110.
2 1 2 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
Digitized by Google
though it may make the proposition more readily intelli­
gible, can add nothing to our conviction of its truth
when it is once understood.
14. Foundation of the above Axiom.—But it will
naturally be asked, What then is the ground of our
conviction of this doctrine of the equal pressure of a
fluid in all directions? And to this I reply, that the
reasons of this conviction are involved in our idea of a
fluid, which is considered as matter, and therefore as
capable of receiving, resisting, and transmitting force
according to the general conception of matter; and which
is also considered as matter which has its parts perfectly
moveable among one another. For it follows from
these suppositions, that if the fluid be confined, a pres­
sure which thrusts in one side of the containing vessel,
may cause any other side to bulge outwards, if there be
a part of the surface which has not strength to resist
this pressure from within. And that this pressure, when
thus transferred into a direction different from the ori-*
ginal one, is not altered in intensity, depends upon this
consideration; that any difference in the two pressures
would be considered as a defect of perfect fluidity, since
the fluidity would be still more complete, if this entire
and undiminished transmission of pressure in all direc­
tions were supposed. If, for instance, the lateral pres­
sure were less than the vertical, this could be conceived
no other way than as indicating some rigidity or adhesion
of the parts of the fluid. When the fluidity is perfect,
the two pressures which act in the two different parts of
the fluid exactly balance each other: they are the action
and the reaction; and must hence be equal by the same
necessity as two directly opposite forces in statics.
But it may be urged, that even if we grant that this
conception of a perfect fluid, as a body which has its
parts perfectly moveable among each other, leads us
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PRINCIPLES OF STATICS. 2 1 3
Digitized by Google
necessarily to the principle of the equality of hydrostatic
pressure in all directions, still this conception itself is
obtained from experience, or suggested by observation.
And to this we may reply, that the conception of a fluid,
as contemplated in mechanical theory, cannot be said to
be derived from experience, except in the same manner
as the conception of a solid and rigid body may be said
to be acquired by experience. For if we imagine a
vessel full of small, smooth spherical balls, such a collec­
tion of balls would approach to the nature of a fluid, in
having its parts moveable among each other; and would
approach to perfect fluidity, as the balls became
smoother and smaller. And such a collection of balls
would also possess the statical properties of a fluid; for
it would transmit pressure out of a vertical into a lateral
(or any other) direction, in the same manner as a fluid
would do. And thus a collection of solid bodies has
the same property which a fluid has; and the science
of Hydrostatics borrows from experience no principles
beyond those which are involved in the science of
Statics respecting solids. And since in this latter por­
tion of science, as we have already seen, none of the
principles depend for their evidence upon any special
experience, the doctrines of Hydrostatics also are not
proved by experience, but have a necessary truth bor­
rowed from the relations of our ideas.
It is hardly to be expected that the above reasoning
will, at first sight, produce conviction in the mind of the
reader, except he have, to a certain extent, acquainted
himself with the elementary doctrines of the science of
Hydrostatics as usually delivered; and have followed,
with clear and steady apprehension, some of the trains
of reasoning by which the pressures of fluids are deter­
mined ; as, for instance, the explanation of what is called
theHydrostatic Paradox. The necessity of such a dis­
214 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
Digitized by Googk
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PRINCIPLES OF STATICS. 215
cipline in order that the reader may enter fully into this
part of our speculations, naturally renders them less
popular; but this disadvantage is inevitable in our plan.
We cannot expect to throw light upon philosophy by
means of the advances which have been made in the
mathematical and physical sciences, except we really
understand the doctrines which have been firmly esta­
blished in those sciences. This preparation for philoso­
phizing may be somewhat laborious; but such labour is
necessary if we would pursue speculative truth with all
the advantages which the present condition of human
knowledge places within our reach.
We may add, that the consequences to which we are
directed by the preceding opinions, are of very great im­
portance in their bearing upon our general views respect­
ing human knowledge. I trust to be able to show, that
some important distinctions are illustrated, some per­
plexing paradoxes solved, and some large anticipations
of the future extension of our knowledge suggested, by
means of the conclusions to which the preceding discus­
sions have conducted us. But before I proceed to these
general topics, I must consider the foundations of some
of the remaining portions of Mechanics.
C h a p t e r VII.
OF TH E ESTABLISHM ENT OF TH E PR IN C IPL E S
OF DYNAMICS.
1. In the History of Mechanics, I have traced the
steps by which the three Laws of Motion and the other
principles of mechanics were discovered, established, and
extended to the widest generality of form and applica­
tion. We have, in these laws, examples of principles
which were, historically speaking, obtained by reference
Digitized by Google
to experience. Bearing in mind the object and the re­
sult of the preceding discussions, we cannot but turn
with much interest to examine these portions of science;
to inquire whether there be any real difference in the
grounds and nature between the knowledge thus ob­
tained, and those truths which we have already contem­
plated; and which, as we have seen, contain their own
evidence, and do not require proof from experiment.
2. The First Law of Motion.—The first law of mo­
tion is, that When a body moves not acted upon by any
force, it will go on perpetually in a straight line, and
with a uniform, velocity. Now what is the real ground
of our assent to this proposition ? That it is not at first
sight a self-evident truth, appears to be clear; since from
the time of Aristotle to that of Galileo the opposite
assertion was held to be true; and it was believed that
all bodies in motion had, by their own nature, a constant
tendency to move more and more slowly, so as to stop at
last. This belief indeed, is probably even now enter­
tained by most persons, till their attention is fixed upon
the arguments by which the first law of motion is esta­
blished. It is, however, not difficult to lead any person
of a speculative habit of thought to see that the retard­
ation which constantly takes place in the motion of all
bodies when left to themselves, is, in reality, the effect
of extraneous forces which destroy the velocity. A top
ceases to spin because the friction against the ground
and the resistance of the air gradually diminish its mo­
tion, and not because its motion has any internal prin­
ciple of decay or fatigue. This may be shown, and was,
in fact, shown by Hooke before the Royal Society, at the
time when the laws of motion were still under discus­
sion, by means of experiments in which the weight of
the top is increased, and the resistance to motion offered
by its support, is diminished; for by such contrivances
216 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
Digitized by Google
its motion is made to continue much longer than it
would otherwise do. And by experiments of this nature,
although we can never remove the whole of the external
impediments to continued motion, and although, conse­
quently, there will always be some retardation; and an
end of the motion of a body left to itself however long
it may be delayed, must at last come; yet we can esta­
blish a conviction that if all resistance could de removed,
there would be no diminution of velocity, and thus the
motion would go on for ever.
If we call to mind the axioms which we formerly
stated, as containing the most important conditions
involved in the idea of Cause, it will be seen that our
conviction in this case depends upon the first axiom of
Causation, that nothing can happen without a cause.
Every change in the velocity of the moving body must
have a cause; and if the change can, in any manner, be
referred to the presence of other bodies, these are said
to exertforce upon the moving body: and the conception
of force is thus evolved from the general idea of cause.
Force is any cause which has , or change of
motion,fo r its effect; and thus, all the change of velocity
of a body which can be referred to extraneous bodies,—as
the air which surrounds it, or the support on which it
rests,— is considered as the effect of forces; and this
consideration is looked upon as explaining the difference
between the motion which really takes places in the expe­
riment, and that motion which, as the law asserts, would
take place if the body were not acted on by any forces.
Thus the truth of the first law of motion depends
upon the axiom that no change can take place without a
cause; and follows from the definition of force, if we sup­
pose that there can be none but an external cause of
change. But in order to establish the law, it was neces­
sary further to be assured that there is no internal cause
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PRINCIPLES OF DYNAMICS. 217
Digitized by Googk
218 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
of change of velocity belonging to all matter whatever,
and operating in such a manner that the mere progress
of time is sufficient to produce a diminution of velocity
in all moving bodies. It appears from the history of
mechanical science, that this latter step required a refer­
ence to observation and experiment; and that the first
law of motion is so far, historically at least, dependent
upon our experience.
But notwithstanding this historical evidence of the
need which we have of a reference to observed facts, in
order to place this first law of motion out of doubt, it has
been maintained by very eminent mathematicians and
philosophers, that the law is, in truth, evident of itself
and does not really rest upon experimental proof. Such,
for example, is the opinion of D’Alembert*, who offers
what is called an d priori proof of this law; that is, a
demonstration derived from our ideas alone. When a
body is put in motion, either, he says, the cause which
puts it in motion at first, suffices to make it move one
foot, or the continued action of the cause during this foot
is requisite for the motion. In the first case, the same
reason which made the body proceed to the end of the
first foot will hold for its going on through a second,
a third, a fourth foot, and so on for any number. In
the second case, the same reason which made the force
continue to act during the first foot, will hold for its
acting, and therefore for the body moving during each
succeeding foot. And thus the body, once beginning to
move, must go on moving for ever.
It is obvious that we might reply to this argument,
that the reasons for the body proceeding during each
succeeding foot may not necessarily be all the same; for
among these reasons may be the time which has elapsed;
and thus the velocity may undergo a change as the time
* Dynamique.
Digitized by Googk
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PRINCIPLES OF DYNAMICS. 219
proceeds: and we require observation to inform us that
it does not do so.
Professor Playfair has presented nearly the same
argument, although in a different and more mathematical
form*. If the velocity change, says he, it must change
according to some expression of calculation depending
upon the time, or, in mathematical language, must be a
function of the time. If the velocity diminish as the
time increases, this may be expressed by stating the velo­
city in each case as a certain number, from which another
quantity, or term, increasing as the time increases, is
subtracted. But, Playfair adds, there is no condition
involved in the nature of the case, by which the coeffi­
cients, or numbers which are to be employed, along with
the number representing the time, in calculating this
second term, can be determined to be of one magnitude
rather than of any other. Therefore he infers there can
be no such coefficients, and that the velocity is in each
case equal to some constant number, independent of the •
time; and is therefore the same for all times.
In reply to this we may observe, that the circum­
stance of our not seeing in the nature of the case any­
thing which determines for us the coefficients above
spoken off, cannot prove that they have not some certain
value in nature. We do not see in the nature of the
case anything which should determine a body to fall six­
teen feet in a second of time, rather than one foot or one
hundred feet: yet in fact the space thus run through by
falling bodies is determined to a certain magnitude. It
would be easy to assign a mathematical expression for
the velocity of a body, implying that one-hundredth of the
velocity, or any other fraction, is lost in each second+:
• Outlines, &c., p. 26.
+ This would bo the case, if, t being the number of seconds elapsed,
Digitized by Google
and where is the absurdity of supposing such an expres­
sion really to represent the velocity ?
Most modern writers on mechanics have embraced
the opposite opinion, and have ascribed our knowledge
of this first law of motion to experience. Thus M.
Poisson, one of the most eminent of the mathematicians
who have written on this subject, says*, “ We cannot
affirm a priori that the velocity communicated to a body
will not become slower and slower of itself, and end by
being entirely extinguished. It is only by experience
and induction that this question can be decided.”
Yet it cannot be denied that there is much force in
those arguments by which it is attempted to shew that
the First Law of Motion, such as we find it, is more
consonant to our conceptions than any other would be.
The Law, as it exists, is the most simple that we can
conceive. Instead of having to determine by experi­
ments what is the law of the natural change of velocity,
we find the Law to be that it does not change at all. To a
certain extent, the Law depends upon the evident axiom,
that no change can take place without a cause. But
the question further occurs, whether the mere lapse of
time may not be a cause of change of velocity. In order
to ensure this, we have recourse to experiment; and the
result is that time alone does not produce any such
change. In addition to the conditions of change which
we collect from our own Ideas, we ask of Experience what
other conditions and circumstances she has to offer; and
the answer is, that she can point out none. When we
have removed the alterations which external causes, in
and C some constant quantity, the velocity were expressed by this
mathematical formula,
220 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
* Poisson, Dynamique. Ed. 2, Art. 113.
Digitized by Googk
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PRINCIPLES OF DYNAMICS. 2 2 1
our very conception of them, occasion, there are no
longer any alterations. Instead of having to guide our­
selves by experience, we learn that on this subject she
has nothing to tell us. Instead of having to take into
account a number of circumstances, we find that we have
only to reject all circumstances. The velocity of a body
remains unaltered by time alone, of whatever kind the
body itself be. .
But the doctrine that time alone is not a cause of.
change of velocity in any body is further recommended
to us by this consideration;—that time is conceived by
us not as a cause, but only as a condition of other causes
producing their effects. Causes operate time; but it
is only when the cause exists, that the lapse of time can
give rise to alterations. When therefore all external
causes of change of velocity are supposed to be removed,
the velocity must continue identical with itself whatever
the time which elapses. An eternity of negation can
produce no positive result.
Thus, though the discovery of the First Law of
Motion was made, historically speaking, by means of
experiment, we have now attained a point of view in
which we see that it might have been certainly known
to be true independently of experience. This law in its
ultimate form, when completely simplified and steadily
contemplated, assumes the character of a self-evident
truth. We shall find the same process to take place in
other instances. And this feature in the progress of
science will hereafter be found to suggest very important
views with regard both to the nature and prospects of
our knowledge.
3. Ch'avity is a Uniform Force.—We shall find
observations of the same kind offering themselves in a
manner more or less obvious, with regard to the other
principles of Dynamics. The determination of the laws
Digitized by Google
according to which bodies fall downwards by the com­
mon action of gravity, has already been noticed in the
History of Mechanics*, as one of the earliest positive
advances in the doctrine of motion. These laws were
first rightly stated by Galileo, and established by rea­
soning and by experiment, not without dissent and con­
troversy. The amount of these doctrines is this: That
gravity is a uniform accelerating force; such a uniform
force having this for its character, that it makes the
velocity inci'ease in exact proportion to the time of
motion. The relation which the spaces described by the
body bear to the times in which they are described, is
obtained by mathematical deduction from this definition
of the force.
The clear Definition of a, uniform accelerating force,
and the Proposition that gravity is such a force, were
co-ordinate and contemporary steps in this discovery.
In defining accelerating force, reference, tacit or ex­
press, was necessarily made to the second of the general
axioms respecting causation,—That causes are measured
by their effects. Force, in the cases now under our
notice, is conceived to be, as we have already stated,
(p. 217,) any cause which, acting from without, changes
the motion of a body. It must, therefore, in this accep­
tation, be measured by the magnitude of the changes
which are produced. But in what manner the changes
of motion are to be employed as the measures of force, is
learnt from observation of the facts which we see taking
place in the world. Experience interprets the axiom of
causation, from which otherwise we could not deduce
any real knowledge. We may assume, in virtue of our
general conceptions of force, that under the same cir­
cumstances, a greater change of motion implies a greater
force producing it ; but what are we to expect when the
* Hint, Ind. Set., R vi. c. ii. sect. 2.
2 2 2 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
Digitized by Googk
circumstances change ? The weight of a body makes it
fall from rest at first, and causes it to move more quickly
as it descends lower. We may express this by saying,
that gravity, the universal force which makes all terres­
trial bodies fall when not supported, by its continuous
action first gives velocity to the body when it has none,
and afterwards adds velocity to that which the body
already has. But how is the velocity added propor­
tioned to the velocity which already exists? Force
acting on a body at rest, and on a body in motion,
appears under very different conditions;—how are the
effects related ? Let the force be conceived to be in both
cases the s
a
m
e,since force is conceived to depend upon
the extraneous bodies, and not upon the condition of the
moving mass itself. But the force being the same, the
effects may still be different. It is at first sight con­
ceivable that the body, acted upon by the same gravity,
may receive a less addition of velocity when it is already
moving in the direction in which this gravity impels it;
for if we ourselves push a body forwards, we can produce
little additional effect upon it when it is already moving
rapidly away from us. May it not be true, in like man­
ner, that although gravity be always the same force, its
effect depends upon the velocity which the body under
its influence already possesses ?
Observation and reasoning combined, as we have
said, enabled Galileo to answer these questions. He as­
serted and proved that we may consistently and properly
measure a force by the velocity which is by it generated
in a body, in some certain time, as one second; and
further, that if we adopt this measure, gravity will be a
force of the same value under all circumstances of the
body which it affects; since it appeared that, in fact, a
falling body does receive equal increments of velocity
in equal times from first to last.
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PRINCIPLES OF DYNAMICS. 2 2 3
Digitized by Google
If it be asked whether we could have known, anterior
to, or independent of experiment, that gravity is a uni­
form force in the sense thus imposed upon the term;
it appears clear that we must reply, that we could not
have attained to such knowledge, since other laws of the
motion of bodies downwards are easily conceivable, and
nothing but observation could inform us that one of
these laws does not prevail in fact. Indeed, we may add,
that the assertion that the force of gravity is uniform, is
so far from being self-evident, that it is not even true;
for gravity varies according to the distance from the
center of the earth; and although this variation is so
small as to be, in the case of falling bodies, imperceptible,
it negatives the rigorous uniformity of the force as com­
pletely, though not to the same extent, as if the weight
of a body diminished in a marked degree, when it was
carried from the lower to the upper room of a house. It
cannot, then, be a truth independent of experience, that
gravity is uniform.
Yet, in fact, the assertion that gravity is uniform was
assented to, not only before it was proved, but even
before it was clearly understood. It was readily granted
by all, that bodies which fall freely are uniformly accele­
rated ; but while some held the opinion just stated, that
uniformly accelerated motion is that in which the velocity
increases in proportion to the , others maintained,
that that is uniformly accelerated motion, in which the
velocity increases in proportion to the space', so that, for
example, a body in falling vertically through twenty feet
should acquire twice as great a velocity as one which
falls through ten feet.
These two opinions are both put forward by the
interlocutors of Galileo’s Dialogue on this subject*. And
the latter supposition is rejected, the author showing,
• Dialogo, in . p. 95.
2 2 4 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
Digitized by Google
not that it is inconsistent with experience, but that it is
impossible in itself: inasmuch as it would inevitably lead
to the conclusion, that the fall through a large and a
small vertical space would occupy exactly the same time.
Indeed, Galileo assumes his definition of uniformly
accelerated motion as one which is sufficiently recom­
mended by its own simplicity. “ If we attend carefully,”
he says, “we shall find that no mode of increase of velocity
is more simple than that which adds equal increments in
equal times. Which we may easily understand if we
consider the close affinity of time and motion: for as the
uniformity of motion is defined by the equality of spaces
described in equal times, so we may conceive the uni­
formity of acceleration to exist when equal velocities are
added in equal times.”
Galileo’s mode of supporting his opinion, that bodies
falling by the action of gravity are thus uniformly acce­
lerated, consists, in the first place, in adducing the
maxim that nature always employs the most simple
means*. But he is far from considering this a decisive
argument. “ I,” says one of his speakers, “ as it would
be very unreasonable in me to gainsay this or any other
definition which any author may please to make, since
they are all arbitrary, may still, without offence, doubt
whether such a definition, conceived and admitted in the
abstract, fits, agrees, and is verified in that kind of
accelerated motion which bodies have when they descend
naturally.”
The experimental proof that bodies, when they fall
downwards, are uniformly accelerated, is (by Galileo)
derived from the inclined plane; and therefore assumes
the proposition, that if such uniform acceleration prevail
in vertical motion, it will also hold when a body is com­
pelled to describe an oblique rectilinear path. This pro­
* D
i
a
l
o
g
o,h i . p. 91.
VOL. I. W. P. Q
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PRINCIPLES OF DYNAMICS. 225
Digitized by Googk
2 2 6 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
position may be shown to be true, if (assuming by anti­
cipation the Third Law of Motion, of which we shall
shortly have to speak,) we introduce the conception of
a uniform statical force as the cause of uniform acce­
leration. For the force on the inclined plane bears
a constant proportion to the vertical force, and this
proportion is known from statical considerations. But
in the work of which we are speaking, Galileo does
not introduce this abstract conception of force as the
foundation of his doctrines. Instead of this, he pro­
poses, as a postulate sufficiently evident to be made
the basis of his reasonings, That bodies which descend
down inclined planes of different inclinations, but of
the same vertical height, all acquire the same velocity*.
But when this postulate has been propounded by one
of the persons of the dialogue, another interlocutor says,
“ You discourse very probably; but besides this like­
lihood, I wish to augment the probability so far, that
it shall be almost as complete as a necessary demon­
stration.” He then proceeds to describe a very inge­
nious and simple experiment, which shows that when a
body is made to swing upwards at the end of a string,
it attains to the same height, whatever is the path it
follows, so long as it starts from the lowest point with
the same velocity. And thus Galileo’s postulate is ex­
perimentally confirmed, so far as the force of gravity can
be taken as an example of the forces which the postulate
contemplates: and conversely, gravity is proved to be a
uniform force, so far as it can be considered clear that
the postulate is true of uniform forces.
When we have introduced the conception and defi­
nition of accelerating force, Galileo’s postulate, that
bodies descending down inclined planes of the same
vertical height, acquire the same velocity, may, by a
• Dialogo, h i . p. 36.
Digitized by Googk
few steps of reasoning, be demonstrated to be true of
uniform forces : and thus the proof that gravity, either in
vertical or oblique motion, is a uniform force, is con­
firmed by the experiment above mentioned ; as it also is,
on like grounds, by many other experiments, made upon
inclined planes and pendulums.
Thus the propriety of Galileo’s conception of a uni­
form force, and the doctrine that gravity is a uniform
force, were confirmed by the same reasonings and experi­
ments. We may make here two remarks ; First, that the
conception, when established and rightly stated, appears
so simple as hardly to require experimental proof; a
remark which we have already made with regard to the
First Law of Motion : and Second, that the discovery of
the real law of nature was made by assuming proposi­
tions which, without further proof, we should consider as
very precarious, and as far less obvious, as well less
evident, than the law of nature in its simple form.
4.The Second Law of Motion.—When a body, instead
of falling downwards from rest, is thrown in any direc­
tion, it describes a curve line, till its motion is stopped.
In this, and in all other cases in which a body describes
a curved path in free space, its motion is determined by
the Second Law of Motion. The law, in its general
form, is as follows:—When a body is thus cast forth
and acted upon by a force in a direction transverse to its
motion, the result is, That there is combined with the
motion with which the body is thrown, another motion,
exactly the same as that which the samefoi'ce would have
communicated to a body at rest.
It will readily be understood that the basis of this
law is the axiom already stated, that effects are measured
by their causes. In virtue of this axiom, the effect of
gravity acting upon a body in a direction transverse to its
motion, must measure the accelerative or deflective force
Q2
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PRINCIPLES OF DYNAMICS. 2 2 7
Digitized by Googk
of gravity under those circumstances. If this effect vary
with the varying velocity and direction of the body thus
acted upon, the deflective force of gravity also will vary
with those circumstances. The more simple supposition
is, that the deflective force of gravity is the same, whatever
be the velocity and direction of the body which is sub­
jected to its influence: and this is the supposition which
we find to be verified by facts. For example, a ball let
fall from the top of a ship’s upright mast, when she is
sailing steadily forward, will fall at the foot of the mast,
just as if it were let fall while the ship were at rest; thus
showing that the motion which gravity gives to the ball
is compounded with the horizontal motion which the ball
shares with the ship from the first. This general and
simple conception of motions as compounded, with one
another, represents, it is proved, the manner in which
the motion produced by gravity modifies any other mo­
tion which the body may previously have had.
The discussions which terminated in the general re­
ception of this Second Law of Motion among mechanical
writers, were much mixed up with the arguments for and
against the Copernican system, which system represented
the earth as revolving upon its axis. For the obvious
argument against this system was, that if each point of the
earth’s surface were thus in motion from west to east, a
stone dropt from the top of a tower would be left behind,
the tower moving away from it: and the answer was, that
by this law of motion, the stone would have the earth’s
motion impressed upon it, as well as that motion which
would arise from its gravity to the earth; and that the
motion of the stone relative to the tower would thus be
the same as if both earth and tower were at rest. Gali­
leo further urged, as a presumption in favour of the opi­
nion that the two motions,—the circular motion arising
from the rotation of the earth, and the downward motion
2 2 8 PHILOSOPHY OF THF. MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
Digitized by Googk
arising from the gravity of the stone, would be com­
pounded in the way we have described, (neither of them
disturbing or diminishing the other,)—that the first
motion was in its own nature not liable to any change or
diminution*, as we learn from the First Law of Motion.
Nor was the subject lightly dismissed. The experiment
of the stone let fall from the top of the mast was made
in various forms by Gassendi; and in his Epistle,
Motu impresso a Motore t
r
a
n
s
l
a
>
, the rule now in
tion is supported by reference to these experiments. In
this manner, the general truth, the Second Law of
Motion, was established completely and beyond dispute.
But when this law had been proved to be true in a
general sense, with such accuracy as rude experiments,
like those of Galileo and Gassendi, would admit, it still
remained to be ascertained (supposing our knowledge of
the law to be the result of experience alone,) whether it
were true with that precise and rigorous exactness which
more refined modes of experimenting could test. We
so willingly believe in the simplicity of laws of nature,
that the rigorous accuracy of such a law, known to be at
least approximately true, was taken for granted, till some
ground for suspecting the contrary should appear. Yet
calculations have not been wanting which might confirm
the law as true to the last degree of accuracy. Laplace
relates (Syst. du M
o
n
d
e
, livre iv., chap. 16,) that at one
time he had conceived it possible that the effect of
gravity upon the moon might be slightly modified by the
moon’s direction and velocity; and that in this way an
explanation might be found for the moon’s acceleration
(a deviation of her observed from her calculated place,
which long perplexed mathematicians). But it was after
some time discovered that this feature in the moon’s
motion arose from another cause; and the second law of
* Diafogo, ii. p. 114.
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PRINCIPLES OF DYNAMICS. 2 2 9
Digitized by Googk
motion was confirmed as true in the most rigorous
sense.
Thus we see that although there were arguments
which might be urged in favour of this law, founded
upon the necessary relations of ideas, men became con­
vinced of its truth only when it was verified and con­
firmed by actual experiment. But yet in this case
again, as in the former ones, when the law had been
established beyond doubt or question, men were very
ready to believe that it was not a mere result of observa­
tion,—that the truth which it contained was not derived
from experience,—that it might have been assumed as
true in virtue of reasonings anterior to experience,—and
th^t experiments served only to make the law more plain
and intelligible, as visible diagrams in geometry serve to
illustrate geometrical truths; our knowledge not being
(they deemed) in mechanics, any more than in geometry,
borrowed from the senses. It was thought by many to
be self-evident, that the effect of a force in any direction
cannot be increased or diminished by any motion trans­
verse to the direction of the force which the body may
have at the same time : or, to express it otherwise, that
if the motion of the body be compounded of a horizontal
and vertical motion, the vertical motion alone will be
affected by the vertical force. This principle, indeed,
not only has appeared evident to many persons, but even
at the present day is assumed as an axiom by many of
the most eminent mathematicians. It is, for example,
so employed in the Mécanique Céleste of Laplace, which
may be looked upon as the standard of mathematical
mechanics in our time; and in the Mécanique Analy­
tique of Lagrange, the most consummate example which
has appeared of subtilty of thought on such subjects, as
well as of power of mathematical generalization*. And
• I may observe that the rule that we may compound motions, as
230 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
Digitized by Googk
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PRINCIPLES OF DYNAMICS. 231
thus we have here another example of that circumstance
which we have already noticed in speaking of the First
Law of Motion, (Art. 2 of this Chapter,) and of the Law
that Gravity is a uniform Force, (Art. 3) ; namely, that
the law, though historically established by experiments,
appears, when once discovered and reduced to its most
simple and general form, to be self-evident. I am the
more desirous of drawing attention to this feature in
various portions of the history of science, inasmuch as it
will be found to lead to some very extensive and impor­
tant views, hereafter to be considered.
5. The Third Lan of Motion.— We have, in the
definition of Accelerating Force, a measure of Forces, so
far as they are concerned in producing motion. We had
before, in speaking of the principles of statics, defined
the measure of Forces or Pressures, so far as they are
employed in producing equilibrium. But these two
aspects of Force are closely connected; and we require a
law which shall lay down the rule of their connexion.
By the same kind of muscular exertion by which we
tho Law supposes, is involved in the step of resolving them ; which is
done in the passage to which I refer ( . Analyt. Ptie. I., sect. i. art. 3,
p. 225). “ Si on conçoit que la mouvement d’un corps et les forces
qui le sollicitent soient décomposées suivant trois lignes droites perpen­
diculaires entre elles, on pourra considérer séparément les mouvemens
et les forces relatives à chacun a de ces trois directions. Car à cause de
la perpendicularité des directions il est visible que chacun de ces mouve­
mens partiels peut être regardé comme indépendant des deux autres,
et qu'il ne peut recevoir d’alteration que de la part de la force qui agit
dans la direction de ce mouvement ; l'on peut conclure que ces trois
mouvements doivent suivre, chacun en particulier, les lois des mouve­
mens rectilignes accélérés ou retardés par les forces données.” Laplace
makes the same assumption in effect, (Méc. P. i., liv. i., art. 7,)
by resolving the forces which act upon a point in three rectangular
directions, and reasoning separately concerning each direction. But iu
his mode of treating the subject is involved a principle which belongs
to the Third Law of Motion, namely, the doctrine that the velocity is
as the force, of which we shall have to speak elsewhere.
Digitized by Googk
2 3 2 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICAL 8CIENCE8.
can support a heavy stone, we can also put it in motion.
The question then occurs, how is the rate and manner
of its motion determined ? The answer to this question
is contained in the Third Law of Motion, and it is to
this effect: that the Momentum, which any pressure pro­
duces in the mass in a given time is proportional to the
pressure. By Momentum is meant the product of the
numbers which express the velocity and the mass of the
body: and hence, if the mass of the body be the same
in the instances which we compare, the rule is,—That
the velocity is as theforce which produces i t ; and this is
one of the simplest ways of expressing the Third Law
of Motion.
In agreement with our general plan, we have to ask,
What is the ground of this rule ? What is the simplest
and most satisfactory form to which we can reduce the
proof of it ? Or, to take an instance; if a double pres­
sure be exerted against a given mass, so disposed as to
be capable of motion, why must it produce twice the
velocity in the same time ?
To answer this question, suppose the double pressure
to be resolved into two single pressures: one of these
will produce a certain velocity; and the question is, why
an equal pressure, acting upon the same mass, will pro­
duce an equal velocity in addition to the former? Or,
stating the matter otherwise, the question is, why each
of the two forces will produce its separate effect, unal­
tered by the simultaneous action of the other force ?
This statement of the case makes it seem to approach
very near to such cases as are included in the Second
Law of Motion, and therefore it might appear that this
Third Law has no grounds distinct from the Second.
But it must be recollected that the wordforce has a dif­
ferent meaning in this case and in that; in this place it
signifies pressure; in the statement of the Second Law
Digitized by Google
its import was accelerative or deflective , measured
by the velocity or deflexion generated. And thus the
Third Law of Motion, so far as our reasonings yet go,
appears to rest on a foundation different from the Second.
Accordingly, that part of the Third Law of Motion
which we are now considering, that the velocity gene­
rated is as the force, was obtained, in fact, by a separate
train of research. The first exemplification of this law
which was studied by mathematicians, was the motion
o f bodies upon inclined planes: for the force which urges
a body down an inclined plane is known by statics, and
hence the velocity of its descent was to be determined.
Galileo originally* in his attempts to solve this problem
of the descent of a body down an inclined plane, did not
proceed from the principle which we have stated, (the
determination of the force which acts down the inclined
plane from statical considerations,) obvious as it may
seem; but assumed, as we have already seen, a propo­
sition apparently far more precarious;—namely, that
a body sliding down a smooth inclined plane acquires
always the same velocity, so long as the vertical height
fallen through is the same. And this conjecture, (for
at first it was nothing more than a conjecture,) he
confirmed by an ingenious experiment; in which bodies
acquired or lost the same velocity by descending or
ascending through the same height, although their paths
were different in other respects.
This was the form in which the doctrine of the mo­
tion of bodies down inclined planes was at first presented
in Galileo’s Dialogues on the Science of Motion. But
his disciple Viviani was dissatisfied with the assumption
thus introduced; and in succeeding editions of the
logues, the apparent chasm in the reasoning was much
narrowed, by making the proof depend upon a principle
* Dial. della Sc. Nuov. m., p. 06. See Hist. Ind. Sci. B. vi. c. ii. sett. 5.
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PRINCIPLES OF DYNAMICS. 2 3 3
Digitized by Google
nearly identical with the third law of motion as we have
just stated it. In the proof thus added, “ We are agreed,”
says the interlocutor*, “that in a moving body the
impetus, energy, momentum, or propension to motion, is
as great as is the force or least resistance which suffices
to sustain i t a n d the impetus or momentum, in the
course of the proof, being taken to be as the velocity
produced in a given time, it is manifest that the prin­
ciple so stated amounts to this; that the velocity pro­
duced is as the statical force. And thus this law of
motion appears, in the school of Galileo, to have been
suggested and established at first by experiment, but
afterwards confirmed and demonstrated by a priori
considerations.
We see, in the above reasoning, a number of abstract
terms introduced which are not, at first at least, very
distinctly defined, as impetus, momentum, &c. Of
these, momentum has been selected, to express that
quantity which, in a moving body, measures the statical
force impressed upon the body. This quantity is, as we
have just seen, proportional to the velocity in a given
body. It is also, in different bodies, proportional to the
mass of the body. This part of the third law of motion
follows from our conception of matter in general as con­
sisting of parts capable of addition. A double pressure
must be required to produce the same velocity in a
double mass; for if the mass be halved, each half will
require an equal pressure; and the addition, both of the
pressures and of the masses, will take place without dis­
turbing the effects.
The measure of the quantity of matter of a body con­
sidered as affecting the velocity which pressure produces
in the body, is termed its inertia, as we have already
stated, (p. 190.) Inertia is the property by which a
" D ia lo g o , p. 104.
234 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
Digitized by Google
large mass of matter requires a greater force than a
small mass, to give it an equal velocity. It belongs to
each portion of matter; and portions of inertia are
added whenever portions of matter are added. Hence
inertia is as the quantity of matter; which is only an­
other way of expressing this third law of motion, so far
as quantity of matter is concerned.
But how do we know the quantity of matter of a
body ? We may reply, that we take the weight as the
measure of the quantity of matter: but we may then be
again asked, how it appears that the weight is propor­
tional to the inertia; which it must be, in order that the
quantity of matter may be proportional to both one and
the other. We answer, that this appears to be true
experimentally, because all bodies fall with equal veloci­
ties by gravity, when the known causes of difference are
removed. The observations of falling bodies, indeed,
are not susceptible of much exactness: but experiments
leading to the same result, and capable of great precision,
were made upon pendulums by Newton; as he relates in
his Principia,Book hi., prop. 6. They all agreed, he
says, with perfect accuracy: and thus the weight and the
inertia are proportional in all cases, and therefore each
proportional to the quantity of matter as measured by
the other.
The conception of inertia, as we have already seen in
chapter v., involves the notion of action and reaction;
and thus the laws which involve inertia depend upon the
idea of mutual causation. The rule, that the velocity is
as the force, depends upon the principle of causation,
that the effect is proportional to the cause; the effect
being here so estimated as to be consistent both with
the other laws of motion and with experiment.
But here, as in other cases, the question occurs
again; Is experiment really requisite for the proof of
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PRINCIPLES OF DYNAMICS. 235
Digitized by Google
236 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
this law ? If we look to authorities, we shall be not a
little embarrassed to decide. D’Alembert is against the
necessity of experimental proof. “ Why,” says he*,
“ should we have recourse to this principle employed, at
the present day, by everybody, that the force is propor­
tional to the velocity? . . . a principle resting solely
upon this vague and obscure axiom, that the effect is
proportional to the cause. We shall not examine here,”
he adds, “ if this principle is necessarily true; we shall
only avow that the proofs which have hitherto been
adduced do not appear to us unexceptionable: nor shall
we, with some geometers, adopt it as a purely contingent
truth; which would be to ruin the certainty of me­
chanics, and to reduce it to be nothing more than an
experimental science. We shall content ourselves with
observing,” he proceeds, “ that certain or doubtful, clear
or obscure, it is useless in mechanics, and consequently
ought to be banished from the science.” Though
D’Alembert rejects the third law of motion in this form,
he accepts one of equivalent import, which appears to
him to possess axiomatic certainty ; and this procedure
is in consistence with the course which he takes, of
claiming for the science of mechanics more than mere
experimental truth. On the contrary, Laplace considers
this third law as established by experiment. “ Is the
force,” he saysf, “ proportioned to the velocity ? This,”
he replies, “ we cannot know a priori, seeing that we
are in ignorance of the nature of moving force: we must
therefore, for this purpose, recur to experience ; for all
which is not a necessary consequence of the few data we
have respecting the nature of things, is, for us, only a re­
sult of observation.” And again he says}, “ Here, then,
we have two laws of motion,—the law of inertia [the first
law of motion], and the law of the force proportional to
* Dynamique, Pref. p. x. t Mtc CW. p. 15. } P. 1&
Digitized by Googk
the velocity,— which are given by observation. They
are the most natural and the most simple laws which we
can imagine, and without doubt they flow from the very
nature of matter; but this nature being unknown, they
are, for us, only observed facts: the only ones, however,
which mechanics borrows from experience.”
It will appear, I think, from the views given in this
and several other parts of the present work, that we can­
not with justice say that we have very “ few data respect­
ing the nature of things,” in speculating concerning the
laws of the universe; since all the consequences which
flow from the relations of our fundamental ideas, neces­
sarily regulate our knowledge of things, so far as we
have any such knowledge. Nor can we say that the na­
ture of matter is unknown to us, in any sense in which
we can conceive knowledge as possible. The nature ot
matter is no more unknown than the nature of space or
of number. In our conception of matter, as of space
and of number, are involved certain relations, which are
the necessary groundwork of our knowledge; and any­
thing which is independent of these relations, is not un­
known, but inconceivable.
It must be already clear to the reader, from the
phraseology employed by these two eminent mathema­
ticians, that the question respecting the formation of the
third law of motion can only be solved by a careful con­
sideration of what we mean by observation and experi­
ence, nature and matter. But it will probably be gene­
rally allowed, that, taking into account the explanations
already offered of the necessary conditions of experience
and of the conception of inertia, this law of motion, that
the inertia is as the quantity of matter, is almost or alto­
gether self-evident.
6. Action and Reaction are Equal in Moving Bodies.
—When we have to consider bodies as acting upon one
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PRINCIPLES OF DYNAMICS. 2 3 7
Digitized by Google
another, and influencing each other’s motions, the third
law of motion is still applied; but along with this, we
also employ the general principle that action and reaction
are equal and opposite. Action and reaction are here to
be understood as momentum produced and destroyed,
according to the measure of action established by the
Third Law of Motion: and the cases in which this prin­
ciple is thus employed form so large a portion of those
in which the third law of motion is used, that some
writers (Newton at the head of them) have stated the
equality of action and reaction as the third law of motion.
The third law of motion being once established, the
equality of action and reaction, in the sense of mo­
mentum gained and lost, necessarily follows. Thus, if
a weight hanging by a string over the edge of a smooth
level table draw another weight along the table, the
hanging weight moves more slowly than it would do if
not so connected, and thus loses velocity by the con­
nexion ; while the other weight gains by the connexion
all the velocity which it has, for if left to itself it would
rest. And the pressures which restrain the descent of the
first body and accelerate the motion of the second, are
equal at all instants of time, for each of these pressures
is the tension of the string: and hence, by the third law
of motion, the momentum gained by the one body, and
the momentum lost by the other in virtue of the action
of this string, are equal. And similar reasoning may be
employed in any other case where bodies are connected.
The case where one body does not push or draw,
but strikes another, appeared at first to mechanical rea-
soners to be of a different nature from the others; but a
little consideration was sufficient to show that a blow
is, in fact, only a short and violent pressure; and that,
therefore, the general rule of the equality of momentum
lost and gained applies to this as well as to the other cases.
2 3 8 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
Digitized by Googk
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PRINCIPLES OF DYNAMICS. 2 3 9
Thus, in order to determine the case of the direct
action of bodies upon one another, we require no new
law of motion. The equality of action and reaction,
which enters necessarily into every conception of me­
chanical operation, combined with the measure of action
as given by the third law of motion, enables us to trace
the consequences of every case, whether of pressure or
of impact.
7. D'Alem
bert'sPrinciple.—But what will be the
result when bodies do not act directly upon each other,
but are indirectly connected in any way by levers, strings,
pulleys, or in any other manner, so that one part of the
system has a mechanical advantage over another ? The
result must still be determined by the principle that
action and reaction balance each other. The action and
reaction, being pressures in one sense, must balance each
other by the laws of statics, for these laws determine
the equilibrium of pressure. Now action and reaction,
according to their measures in the Third Law of Motion,
are momentum gained and lost, when the action is di­
rect; and except the indirect action introduce some
modification of the law, they must have the same mea­
sure still. But, in fact, we cannot well conceive any
modification of the law to take place in this case; for
direct action is only one (the ultimate) case of indirect
action. Thus if two heavy bodies act at different points
of a lever, the action of each on the other is indirect;
but if the two points come together, the action becomes
direct. Hence the rule must be that which we have
already stated; for if the rule were false for indirect
action, it would also be false for direct action, for which
case we have shown it to be true. And thus we obtain
the general principle, that in any system of bodies which
act on each other, action and reaction, estimated by mo­
mentum gained and lost, balance each other according
Digitized by Googk
to the laws of equilibrium. This principle, which is so
general as to supply a key to the solution of all pos­
sible mechanical problems, is commonly called D'Alem­
bert's Principle. The experimental proofs which con­
vinced men of the truth of the Third Law of Motion
were, many or most of them, proofs of the law in this
extended sense. And thus the proof of D'Alembert’s
Principle, both from the idea of mechanical action and
from experience, is included in the proof of the law
already stated.
8. Connexion qf Dynamical and Statical Principles.
—The principle of equilibrium of D’Alembert just stated,
is the law which he would substitute for the Third Law
of Motion; and he would thus remove the necessity for
an independent proof of that law. In like manner, the
Second Law of Motion is by some writers derived from
the principle of the composition of statical forces; and
they would thus supersede the necessity of a reference to
experiment in that case. Laplace takes this course, and
thus, as we have seen, rests only the First and Third Law
of Motion upon experience. Newton, on the other hand,
recognizes the same connexion of propositions, but for
a different purpose; for he derives the composition of
statical forces from the Second Law of Motion.
The close connexion of these three principles, the
composition of (statical) forces, the composition of (ac­
celerating) forces with velocities, and the measure of
(moving) forces by velocities, cannot be denied; yet it
appears to be by no means easy to supersede the neces­
sity of independent proofs of the two last of these prin­
ciples. Both may be proved or illustrated by expe­
riment : and the experiments which prove the one are
different from those which establish the other. For
example, it appears by easy calculations, that when we
apply our principles to the oscillations of a pendulum,
240 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
Digitized by Google
the Second Law is proved by the fact, that the oscilla­
tions take place at the same rate in an east and west,
and in a north and south direction: under the same cir­
cumstances, the Third Law is proved by our finding that
the time of a small oscillation is proportional to the
square root of the length of a pendulum; and similar
differences might be pointed out in other experiments,
as to their bearing upon the one law or the other.
9. Mechanical Principles become gradually more
simple and more evident.— I will again point out in
general two circumstances which I have already noticed
in particular cases of the laws of motion.—Truths are
often at first assumed in a form which is far from being
the most obvious or simple;—and truths once discovered
are gradually simplified, so as to assume the appearance
of self-evident truths.
The former circumstance is exemplified in several of
the instances which we have had to consider. The
assumption that a perpetual motion is impossible pre­
ceded the knowledge of the first law of motion. The
assumed equality of the velocities acquired down two in­
clined planes of the same height, was afterwards reduced
to the third law of motion by Galileo himself. In the
History*, we have noted Huyghens’s assumption of the
equality of the actual descent and potential ascent of the
center of gravity: this was afterwards reduced by Her­
man and the Bernoullis, to the statical equivalence of the
solicitations of gravity and the vicarious solicitations of
the effective forces which act on each point; and finally
to the principle of D’Alembert, which asserts that the
motions gained and lost balance each other.
This assertion of principles which now appear neither
obvious nor self-evident, is not to be considered as a
groundless assumption on the part of the discoverers by
• B. v i. c. v. sect. 2.
VOL. I. W. P. R
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PRINCIPLES OF DYNAMICS. 241
Digitized by Googk
whom it was made. On the contrary, it is evidence of
the deep sagacity and clear thought which were requisite
in order to make such discoveries. For these results are
really rigorous consequences of the laws of motion in
their simplest form : and the evidence of them was pro­
bably present, though undeveloped, in the minds of the
discoverers. We are told of geometrical students, who,
by a peculiar aptitude of mind, perceived the evidence of
some of the more advanced propositions of geometry
without going through the introductory steps. We must
suppose a similar aptitude for mechanical reasonings,
which, existing in the minds of Stevinus, Galileo, New­
ton, and Huyghens, led them to make those assumptions
which finally resolved themselves into the laws of motion.
We may observe further, that the simplicity and evi­
dence which the laws of mechanics have at length as­
sumed, are much favoured by the usage of words among
the best writers on such subjects. Terms which origi­
nally, and before the laws of motion were fully known,
were used in a very vague and fluctuating sense, were
afterwards limited and rendered precise, so that asser­
tions which at first appear identical propositions become
distinct and important principles. Thus , motion,
momentum, are terms which were employed, though in a
loose manner, from the very outset of mechanical specu­
lation. And so long as these words retained the vagueness
of common language, it would have been a useless and
barren truism to say that “the momentum is proportional
to the force,” or that “ a body loses as much motion as
it communicates to another.” But when “ momentum ”
and “ quantity of motion” are defined to mean the pro­
duct of mass and velocity, these two propositions imme­
diately become distinct statements of the third law of
motion and its consequences. In like manner, the asser­
tion that “gravity is a uniform force” was assented to,
2 4 2 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
Digitized by Google
before it was settled what a uniform force was; but this
assertion only became significant and useful when that
point had been properly determined. The statement
that “ when different motions are communicated to the
same body their effects are compounded,” becomes the
second law of motion, when we define what composition
of motions is. And the same process may be observed
in other cases.
And thus we see how well the form which science
ultimately assumes is adapted to simplify knowledge.
The definitions which are adopted, and the terms which
become current in precise senses, produce a complete
harmony between the matter and the form of our know­
ledge ; so that truths which were at first unexpected and
recondite, became familiar phrases, and after a few gene­
rations sound, even to common ears, like identical pro­
positions.
10. Controversy of the Measure of Force.—In the
History of Mechanics*, we have given an account of the
controversy which, for some time, occupied the mathema­
ticians of Europe, whether the forces of bodies in motion
should be reckoned proportional to the velocity, or to the
square of the velocity. We need not here recall the
events of this dispute; but we may remark, that its his­
tory, as a metaphysical controversy, is remarkable in this
respect, that it has been finally and completely settled;
for it is now agreed among mathematicians that both
sides were right, and that the results of mechanical action
may be expressed with equal correctness by means of
momentum and of vis vim. It is, in one sense, as D’Alem­
bert has saidf, a dispute about words; but we are not
* B. vi. c. v. sect. 2.
t D ’Alembert has also remarked (Dynamique, Pref. xxi.,) that this
controversy “ show s how little justice and precision there is in the
pretended axiom that causes are proportional to their effects.” B ut
R2
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PRINCIPLES OF DYNAMICS. 2 4 3
Digitized by Google
2 4 4 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
to infer that, on that account, it was frivolous or useless;
for such disputes are one principal means of reducing the
principles of our knowledge to their utmost simplicity
and clearness. The terms which are employed in the
science of mechanics are now liberated for ever, in the
minds of mathematicians, from that ambiguity which
was the battle-ground in the war of the vim.
But we may observe that the real reason of this con­
troversy was exactly that tendency which we have been
noticing;—the disposition of man to assume in his specu­
lations certain general propositions as true, and to fix the
sense of terms so that they shall fall in with this truth.
It was agreed, on all hands, that in the mutual action of
bodies the same quantity of force is always preserved;
and the question was, by which of the two measures this
rule could best be verified. We see, therefore, that the
dispute was not concerning a definition merely, but con­
cerning a definition combined with a general proposition.
Such a question may be readily conceived to have been
by no means unimportant; and we may remark, in pass­
ing, that such controversies, although they are commonly
afterwards stigmatized as quarrels about words and defi­
nitions, are, in reality, events of considerable conse­
quence in the history of science; since they dissipate all
ambiguity and vagueness in the use of terms, and bring
into view the conditions under which the fundamental
principles of our knowledge can be most clearly and
simply presented.
It is worth our while to pause for a moment on the
prospect that we have thus obtained, of the advance of
this reflection is by no means well founded. For since both measures
are true, it appears that causes m ay bejustly measured by their effects,
even when very different kinds of effects are taken. That the axiom
does not point out one precise measure, till illustrated by experience or
by other considerations, w e gra n t: but the same thing occurs in the
application of other axiom s also.
Digitized by Google
knowledge, as exemplified in the history of Mechanics.
The general transformation of our views from vague to
definite, from complex to simple, from unexpected dis­
coveries to self-evident truths, from seeming contradic­
tions to identical propositions, is very remarkable, but it
is by no means peculiar to our subject. The same cir­
cumstances, more or less prominent, more or less deve­
loped, appear in the history of other sciences, according
to the point of advance which each has reached. They
bear upon very important doctrines respecting the pro­
spects, the limits, and the very nature of our knowledge.
And though these doctrines require'to be considered with
reference to the whole body of science, yet the peculiar
manner in which they are illustrated by the survey of
the history of Mechanics, on which we have just been
engaged, appears to make this a convenient place for
introducing them to the reader.
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PRINCIPLES OF DYNAMICS. 245
C h a p t e r VIII.
OF T H E PA RA D O X OF UNIVERSA L PRO POSI­
TIO N S OBTAIN ED FROM E X PE R IE N C E .
1 . I t was formerly stated* that experience cannot
establish any universal or necessary truths. The number
of trials which we can make of any proposition is neces­
sarily limited, and observation alone cannot give us any
ground of extending the inference to untried cases. Ob­
served facts have no visible bond of necessary connexion,
and no exercise of our senses can enable us to discover
such connexion. We can never acquire from a mere
observation of facts, the right to assert that a proposition
is true in all cases, and that it could not be otherwise
than we find it to be.
* B. iMc. v. Of Experience.
Digitized by Googk
Yet, as we have just seen in the history of the laws of
motion, we may go on collecting our knowledge from
observation, and enlarging and simplifying it, till it ap­
proaches or attains to complete universality and seeming
necessity. Whether the laws of motion, as we now know
them, can be rigorously traced to an absolute necessity in
the nature of things, we have not ventured absolutely to
pronounce. But we have seen that some of the most
acute and profound mathematicians have believed that,
for these laws of motion, or some of them, there was
such a demonstrable necessity compelling them to be
such as they are, and no other. Most of those who have
carefully studied the principles of Mechanics will allow
that some at least of the primary laws of motion approach
very near to this character of-necessary truth ; and will
confess that it would be difficult to imagine any other
consistent scheme of fundamental principles. And almost
all mathematicians will allow to these laws an absolute
universality; so that we may apply them without scruple'
or misgiving, in cases the most remote from those to
which our experience has extended. What astronomer
would fear to refer to the known laws of motion, in rea­
soning concerning the double stars; although these objects
are at an immeasurably remote distance from that solar
system which has been the only field of our observation
of mechanical facts? What philosopher, in speculating
respecting a magnetic fluid, or a luminiferous ether, would
hesitate to apply to it the mechanical principles which
are applicable to fluids of known mechanical properties ?
When we assert that the quantity of motion in the world
cannot be increased or diminished by the mutual actions
of bodies, does not every mathematician feel convinced
that it would be an unphilosophical restriction to limit
this proposition to such modes of action as we have
tried?
2 4 6 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
Digitized by Google
PARADOX OF UNIVERSAL PROPOSITIONS. 2 4 7
Yet no one can doubt that, in historical fact, these
laws were collected from experience. That such is the
case, is no matter of conjecture. We know the time, the
persons, the circumstances, belonging to each step of each
discovery. I have, in the History, given an account of
these discoveries; and in the previous chapters of the pre­
sent work, I have further examined the nature and the
import of the principles which were thus brought to light.
Here, then, is an apparent contradiction. Experi­
ence, it would seem, has done that which we had proved
that she cannot do. She has led men to propositions,
universal at least, and to principles which appear to some
persons necessary. What is the explanation of this con­
tradiction, the solution of this paradox ? Is it true that
Experience can reveal to us universal and necessary
truths ? Does she possess some secret virtue, some un­
suspected power, by which she can detect connexions
and consequences which we have declared to be out of
her sphere ? Can she see more than mere appearances,
and observe more than mere facts ? Can she penetrate,
in some way, to the nature of things ?—descend below the
surface of phenomena to their causes and origins, so as
to be able to say what can and what can not be;—what
occurrences are partial, and what universal ? If this be
so, we have indeed mistaken her character and powers;
and the whole course of our reasoning becomes pre­
carious and obscure. But, then, when we return upon
our path we cannot find the point at which we deviated,
we cannot detect the false step in our deduction. It
still seems that by experience, strictly so called, we
cannot discover necessary and universal truths. Our
senses can give us no evidence of a necessary connexion
in phenomena. Our observation must be limited, and
cannot testify concerning anything which is beyond its
limits. A general view of our faculties appears to prove
Digitized by Google
248 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
it to be impossible that men should do what the history
of the science of mechanics shows that they have done.
2. But in order to try to solve this Paradox, let us
again refer to the History of Mechanics. In the cases
belonging to that science, in which propositions of the
most unquestionable universality, and most approaching
to the character of necessary truths, (as, for instance, the
laws of motion,) have been arrived at, what is the source
of the axiomatic character which the propositions thus
assume ? The answer to this question will, we may hope,
throw some light on the perplexity in which we appear
to be involved.
Now the answer to this inquiry is, that the laws
of motion borrow their axiomatic character from their
being merely interpretations of the Axioms of Causation.
Those axioms, being exhibitions of the Idea of Cause
under various aspects, are of the most rigorous univer­
sality and necessity. And so far as the laws of motion
are exemplifications of those axioms, these laws must be
no less universal and necessary. How these axioms are
to be understood;—in what sense cause and , action
and r
e
a
c
tio
n
, are to be taken, experience and observa­
tion did, in fact, teach inquirers on this subject; and
without this teaching, the laws of motion could never
have been distinctly known. If two forces act together,
each must produce its effect, by the axiom of causation;
and, therefore, the effects of the separate forces must be
compounded. But a long course of discussion and expe­
riment must instruct men of what kind this composition
of forces is. Again; action and reaction must be equal;
but much thought and some trial were needed to show
what action and reaction are. Those metaphysicians who
enunciated Laws of motion without reference to expe­
rience, propounded only such laws as were vague and
inapplicable. But yet these persons manifested the
Digitized by Googk
indestructible conviction, belonging to man’s speculative
nature, that there exist Laws of motion, that is, uni­
versal formulae, connecting the causes and effects when
motion takes place. Those mechanicians, again, who,
observed facts involving equilibrium and motion, and
stated some narrow rules, without attempting to ascend
to any universal and simple principle, obtained laws no
less barren and useless than the metaphysicians; for
they could not tell in what new cases, or whether in
any, their laws would be verified;—they needed a more
general rule, to show them the limits of the rule they
had discovered. They went wrong in each attempt to
solve a new problem, because their interpretation of
the terms of the axioms, though true, perhaps, in certain
cases, was not right in general.
Thus Pappus erred in attempting to interpret as a
case of the lever, the problem of supporting a weight
upon an inclined plane; thus Aristotle erred in inter­
preting the doctrine that the weight of bodies is the
cause of their fall; thus Kepler erred in interpreting the
rule that the velocity of bodies depends upon the force;
thus Bernoulli* erred in interpreting the equality of
action and reaction upon a lever in motion. In each
of these instances, true doctrines, already established,
(whether by experiment or otherwise,) were erroneously
applied. And the error was corrected by further reflec­
tion, which pointed out that another mode of interpreta­
tion was requisite, in order that the axiom which was
appealed to in each case might retain its force in the
most general sense. And in the reasonings which avoided
or corrected such errors, and which led to substantial
general truths, the object of the speculator always was
to give to the acknowledged maxims which the Idea of
Cause suggested, such a signification as should be con­
* Hint. Ind. S e t B. v i. c. v. sect. 2.
PARADOX OF UNIVERSAL PROPOSITIONS. 249
Digitized by Google
sistent with their universal validity. The rule was not
accepted as particular at the outset, and afterwards gene­
ralized more and more widely; but from the very first,
the universality of the rule was assumed, and the ques­
tion was, how it should be understood so as to be
universally true. At every stage of speculation, the law
was regarded as a general law. This was not an aspect
which it gradually acquired, by the accumulating con­
tributions of experience, but a feature of its original
and native character. What should happen universally,
experience might be needed to show: but that what
happened should happen universally, was implied in the
nature of knowledge. The universality of the laws of
motion was not gathered from experience, however much
the laws themselves might be so.
3. Thus we obtain the solution of our Paradox, so
far as the case before us is concerned. The laws of
motion borrow their form from the Idea of Causation,
though their matter may be given by experience: and
hence they possess a universality which experience cannot
give. They are certainly and universally valid; and the
only question for observation to decide is, how they are
to be understood. They are like general mathematical
formulae, which are known to be true, even while we are
ignorant what are the unknown quantities which they
involve. It must be allowed, on the other hand, that so
long as these formulae are not interpreted by a real
study of nature, they are not only useless but prejudi­
cial ; filling men’s minds with vague general terms, empty
maxims, and unintelligible abstractions, which they mis­
take for knowledge. Of such perversion of the specula­
tive propensities of man’s nature, the world has seen too
much in all ages. Yet we must not, on that account,
despise these forms of truth, since without them, no
general knowledge is possible. Without general terms,
250 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
Digitized by Googk
PARADOX OF UNIVERSAL PROPOSITIONS. 251
and maxims, and abstractions, we can have no science,
no speculation; hardly, indeed, consistent thought or
the exercise of reason. The course of real knowledge is,
to obtain from thought and experience the right inter­
pretation of our general terms, the real import of our
maxims, the true generalizations which our abstractions
involve.
4. If it be asked, How Experience is able to teach us
to interpret aright the general terms which the Axioms
of Causation involve;—whence she derives the light
which she is to throw on these general notions; the
answer is obvious;—namely, that the relations of causa­
tion are the conditions of Experience;—that the general
notions are exemplified in the particular cases of which
she takes cognizance. The events which take place
about us, and which are the objects of our observation,
we cannot conceive otherwise than as subject to the
laws of cause and effect. Every event must have a
cause;—Every effect must be determined by its cause;—
these maxims are true of the phenomena which form
the materials of our experience. It is precisely to them,
that these truths apply. It is in the world which we
have before our eyes, that these propositions are univer­
sally verified; and it is therefore by the observation of
what we see, that we must learn how these propositions
are to be understood. Every fact, every experiment, is
an example of these statements; and it is therefore by
attention to and familiarity with facts and experiments,
that we learn the signification of the expressions in which
the statements are made; just as in any other case we
learn the import of language by observing the manner
in which it is applied in known cases. Experience is
the interpreter of nature; it being understood that she
is to make her interpretation in that comprehensive
phraseology which is the genuine language of science.
Digitized by Google
5. We may return for an instant to the objection,
that experience cannot give us general truths, since,
after any number of trials confirming a rule, we may,
for aught we can foresee, have one which violates the
rule. When we have seen a thousand stones fall to the
ground, we may see one which does not fall under the
same apparent circumstances. How then, it is asked,
can experience teach us that all stones, rigorously speak­
ing, will fall if unsupported ? And to this we reply,
that it is not true that we can conceive one stone to be
suspended in the air, while a thousand others fall, with­
out believing some peculiar cause to support it; and
that, therefore, such a supposition forms no exception to
the law, that gravity is a force by which all bodies are
urged downwards. Undoubtedly we can conceive a body,
when dropt or thrown, to move in a line quite different
from other bodies: thus a certain missile* used by the
natives of Australia, and lately brought to this country,
when thrown from the hand in a proper manner, de­
scribes a curve, and returns to the place from whence it
was thrown. But did any one, therefore, even for an
instant suppose that the laws of motion are different for
this and for other bodies? On the contrary, was not
every person of a speculative turn immediately led to
inquire how it was that the known causes which modify
motion, the resistance of the air and the other causes,
produced in this instance so peculiar an effect ? And if
the motion had been still more unaccountable, it would
not have occasioned any uncertainty whether it were
consistent with the agency of gravity and the laws of
motion. If a body suddenly alter its direction, or move
in any other unexpected manner, we never doubt that
there is a cause of the change. We may continue quite
ignorant of the nature of this cause, but this ignorance
* Called the Bo-me-rang.
252 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
Digitized by Google
PARADOX OF UNIVERSAL PROPOSITIONS. 253
never occasions a moment’s doubt that the cause exists
and is exactly suited to the effect. And thus experience
can prove or discover to us general rules, but she can
never prove that general rules do not exist. Anomalies,
exceptions, unexplained phenomena, may remind us that
we have much still to learn, but they can never make
us suppose that truths are not universal. We may ob­
serve facts that show us we have not fully understood
the meaning of our general laws, but we can never find
facts which show our laws to have no meaning. Our
experience is bound in by the limits of cause and effect,
and can give us no information concerning any region
where that relation does not prevail. The whole series
of external occurrences and objects, through all time
and space, exists only, and is conceived only, as subject
to this relation; and therefore we endeavour in vain to
imagine to ourselves when and where and how excep­
tions to this relation may occur. The assumption of the
connexion of cause and effect is essential to our expe­
rience, as the recognition of the maxims which express
this connexion is essential to our knowledge.
6. I have thus endeavoured to explain in some
measure how, at least in the field of our mechanical
knowledge, experience can discover universal truths,
though she cannot give them their universality; and
how such truths, though borrowing their form from our
ideas, cannot be understood except by the actual study
of external nature. And thus with regard to the laws
of motion, and other fundamental principles of Mechanics,
the analysis of our ideas and the history of the progress
of the science well illustrate each other.
If the paradox of the discovery of universal truths
by experience be thus solved in one instance, a much
wider question offers itself to us;— How far the difficulty,
and how far the solution, are applicable to other sub­
Digitized by Google
jects. It is easy to see that this question involves most
grave and extensive doctrines with regard to the whole
compass of human knowledge: and the views to which
we have been led in the present Book of this work are,
we trust, fitted to throw much light upon the general
aspect of the subject. But after discussions so abstract,
and perhaps obscure, as those in which we have been
engaged for some chapters, I willingly postpone to a
future occasion an investigation which may perhaps
appear to most readers more recondite and difficult
still. And we have, in fact, many other special fields
of knowledge to survey, before we are led by the order
of our subject, to those general questions and doctrines,
those antitheses brought into view and again resolved,
which a view of the whole territory of human know­
ledge suggests, and by which the nature and conditions
of knowledge are exhibited.
Before we quit the subject of mechanical science we
shall make a few remarks on another doctrine which
forms part of the established truths of the science,
namely, the doctrine of universal gravitation.
254 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
C h a p t e r IX.
OF THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE LAW OF .
UNIVERSAL GRAVITATION.
The doctrine of universal gravitation is a feature of so
much importance in the history of science that we shall
not pass it by without a few remarks on the nature and
evidence of the doctrine.
1. To a certain extent the doctrine of the attraction
of bodies according to the law of the inverse square of
the distance, exhibits in its progress among men the
Digitized by Googk
same general features which we have noticed in the his­
tory of the laws of motion. This doctrine was main­
tained a priori on the ground of its simplicity, and as­
serted positively, even before it was clearly understood:
—notwithstanding this anticipation, its establishment
on the ground of facts was a task of vast labour and
sagacity:—when it had been so established in a general
way, there occurred at later periods, an occasional sus­
picion that it might be approximately true only :—these
suspicions led to further researches, which showed the
rule to be rigorously exact:—and at present there are
mathematicians who maintain, not only that it is true,
but that it is a necessary property of matter. A very
few words on each of these points will suffice.
2. I have shown in the History of *, that the
attraction of the sun according to the inverse square of
the distance, had been divined by Bullialdus, Hooke,
Halley, and others, before it was proved by Newton.
Probably the reason which suggested this conjecture w’as,
that gravity might be considered as a sort of emanation;
and that thus, like light or any other effect diffused from
a center, it must follow the law just stated, the efficacy
of the force being weakened in receding from the center,
exactly in proportion to the space through which it is
diffused. It cannot be denied that such a view appears
to be strongly recommended by analogy.
When it had been proved by Newton that the planets
were really retained in their elliptical orbits by a central
force, his calculations also showed that the above-stated
lam of the force must be at least very approximately
correct, since otherwise the aphelia of the orbits could
not be so nearly at rest as they were. Yet when it
seemed as if the motion of the moon’s apogee could not
be accounted for without some new supposition, the d
• B. vn. c. i.
ESTABLISHMENT OF UNIVERSAL GRAVITATION. 255
Digitized by Googk
256 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
priori argument in favour of. the inverse square did not
prevent Clairaut from trying the hypothesis of a small
term added to that which expressed the ancient law:
but when, in order to test the accuracy of this hypothe­
sis, the calculation of the motion of the moon’s apogee
was pushed to a greater degree of exactness than had
been obtained before, it was found that the new term
vanished of itself; and that the inverse square nowrac­
counted for the whole of the motion. And thus, as in
the case of the second law of motion, the most scrupulous
examination terminated in showing the simplest rule to
be rigorously true.
3. Similar events occurred in the history of another
part of the law of gravitation : namely, that the attrac­
tion is proportional to the quantity of matter attracted.
This part of the law may also be thus stated, That the
weight of bodies arising from gravity is proportional to
their inertia; and thus, that the accelerating force on
all bodies under the same circumstances is the same.
Newton made experiments which proved this with re­
gard to terrestrial bodies; for he found that, at the end
of equal strings, balls of all substances, gold, silver,
lead, glass, wood, &c., oscillated in equal times*. But
a few years ago, doubts arose among the German astro­
nomers whether this law was rigorously true with regard
to the planetary bodies. Some calculations appeared
to prove, that the attraction of Jupiter as shown by the
perturbations which he produces in the small planets
Juno, Vesta, and Pallas, was different from the attrac­
tion which he exerts on his own satellites. Nor did
there appear to these philosophers anything inconceiv­
able in the supposition that the attraction of a planet
might be thus elective. But when Mr. Airy obtained
a more exact determination of the mass of Jupiter, as
• Prin. Lib. III., Prop. 6.
Digitized by Google
indicated by his effect on his satellites, it was found
that this suspicion was unfounded ; and that there was,
in this case, no exception to the universality of the rule,
that this cosmical attraction is in the proportion of the
attracted mass. .
4. Again: when it had thus been shown that a
mutual attraction of parts, according to the law above
mentioned, prevailed throughout the extent of the solar
system, it might still be doubted whether the same law
extended to other regions of the universe. It might
have been perhaps imagined that each fixed star had
its peculiar law of force. But the examination of the
motions of double stars about each other, by the two
Herschels and others, appears to show that these bodies
describe ellipses as the planets do; and thus extends the
law of the inverse squares to parts of the universe im­
measurably distant from the whole solar system.
5. Since every doubt which has been raised with
regard to the universality and accuracy of the law of
gravitation, has thus ended in confirming the rule, it is
not surprizing that men’s minds should have returned
with additional force to those views which had at first
represented the law as a necessary truth, capable of being
established by reason alone. When it had been proved
by Newton that gravity is really a universal attribute of
matter as far as we can learn, his pupils were not con­
tent without maintaining it to be an essential quality.
This is the doctrine held by Cotes in the preface to the
second edition of the Principia (1712): “ Gravity,” he
says, “ is a primary quality of bodies, as extension, mo­
bility, and impenetrability are.” But Newton himself
by no means went so far. In his second Letter to
Bentley (1693), he says: “ You sometimes speak of
gravity as essential and inherent to matter; pray do
not ascribe that notion to me. The cause of gravity,”
VOL. i. w . p. S
ESTABLISHMENT OF UNIVERSAL GRAVITATION. 257
Digitized by Googk
he adds, “ I do not pretend to know, and would take
more time to consider of it.”
Cotes maintains his opinion by urging, that we learn
by experience that all bodies possess gravity, and that we
do not learn in any other way that they are extended,
moveable, or solid. But we have already seen, that the
ideas of space, time, and reaction, on which depend
extension, mobility, and solidity, are not results, but
conditions, of experience. We cannot conceive a body
except as extended; we cannot conceive it to exert
mechanical action except with some kind of solidity.
But so far as our conceptions of body have hitherto
been developed, we find no difficulty in conceiving two
bodies which do not attract each other.
6. Newton lays down, in the second edition of the
Principia, this “ Rule of Philosophizing” (Book iil) ;
that “ The qualities of bodies which cannot be made
more or less intense, and which belong to all bodies on
which we are able to make experiments, are to be held
to be qualities of all bodies in general.” And this Rule
is cited in the sixth Proposition of the Third Book of
the Principia, (Cor. 2,) in order to prove that gravity,
proportional to the quantity of matter, may be asserted
to be a quality of all bodies universally. But we may
remark that a Rule of Philosophizing, itself of precarious
authority, cannot authorize us in ascribing universality
to an empirical result. Geometrical and statical pro­
perties are seen to be necessary, and therefore universal:
but Newton appears disposed to assert a like universality
of gravity, quite unconnected with any necessity. It
would be a very inadequate statement, indeed a false
representation, of statical truth, if we were to say, that
because every body which has hitherto been tried
been found to have a center of gravity, we venture to
assert that all bodies whatever have a center of gravity.
258 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICAL 8CIENCE8.
Digitized by Googk
And if we are ever able to assert the absolute univer­
sality of the law of gravitation, we shall have to rest
this truth upon the clearer developement of our ideas of
matter and force; not upon a Rule of Philosophizing,
which, till otherwise proved, must be a mere rule of
prudence, and which the opponent may refuse to admit.
7. Other persons, instead of asserting gravity to be
in its own nature essential to matter, have made hypo­
theses concerning some mechanism or other, by which
this mutual attraction of bodies is produced*. Thus
the Cartesians ascribed to a vortex the tendency of
bodies to a center; Newton himself seems to have been
disposed to refer this tendency to the elasticity of an
ether; Le Sage propounded a curious hypothesis, in
which this attraction is accounted for by the impulse
of infinite streams of particles flowing constantly through
the universe in all directions. In these speculations,
the force of gravity is resolved into the pressure or im­
pulse of solids or fluids. On the other hand, hypotheses
have been propounded, in which the solidity, and other
physical qualities of bodies, have been explained by
representing the bodies as a collection of points, from
which points, repulsive, as well as attractive, forces
emanate. This view of the constitution of bodies was
maintained and developed by Boscovich, and is hence
termed “ Boscovich’s T h eoryan d the discussion of it
will more properly come under our review at a future
period, when we speak of the question whether bodies
are made up of atoms. But we may observe, that New­
ton himself appears to have inclined, as his followers
certainly did, to this mode of contemplating the physical
properties of bodies. In his Preface to the Principia,
after speaking of the central forces which are exhibited
• See Vince, Observations on the Hypothesis respecting Gravitation,
and the Critique of that work, Edinb. Rev. Vol. xm.
S 2
ESTABLISHMENT OF UNIVERSAL GRAVITATION. 259
Digitized by Googk
iu cosmical phenomena, he says: “ Would that we could
derive the other phenomena of Nature from mechanical
principles by the same mode of reasoning. For many
things move me, so that I suspect all these phenomena
may depend upon certain forces, by which the particles
of bodies, through causes not yet known, are either im­
pelled to each other and cohere according to regular
figures, or are repelled and recede from each other:
which forces being unknown, philosophers have hitherto
made their attempts upon nature in vain.”
8. But both these hyp othesesthat by which cohe­
sion and solidity are reduced to attractive and repulsive
forces, and that by which attraction is reduced to the
impulse and pressure of media;—are hitherto merely
modes of representing mechanical laws of nature; and
cannot, either of them, be asserted as possessing any evi­
dent truth or peremptory authority to the exclusion of
the other. This consideration may enable us to estimate
the real weight of the difficulty felt in assenting to the
mutual attraction of bodies not in contact with each
other ; for it is often urged that this attraction of bodies
at a distance is an absurd supposition.
The doctrine is often thus stigmatized, both by popu­
lar and by learned writers. It was long received as a
maxim in philosophy (as Monboddo informs us *), that a
body cannot act inhere it is not, any more than when it
is not. But to this we reply, that time is a necessary
condition of our conception of causation, in a different
manner from space. The action of force can only be
conceived as taking place in a succession of moments, in
each of which cause and effect immediately succeed each
other: and thus the interval of time between a cause and
its remote effect is filled up by a continuous succession
of events connected by the same chain of causation. But
* Ancient Metaphysics, V ol.ll. p. 175.
2 6 0 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
Digitized by Googk
in space, there is no such visible necessity of continuity;
the action and reaction may take place at a distance from
each other; all that is necessary being that they be
equal and opposite.
Undoubtedly the existence of attraction is rendered
more acceptable to common apprehension by supposing
some intermediate machinery,—a cord, or rod, or fluid,
—by which the forces may be conveyed from one point
to another. But such images are rather fitted to satisfy
those prejudices which arise from the earlier application
of our ideas of force, than to exhibit the real nature of
those ideas. If we suppose two bodies to pull each other
by means of a rod or a cord, we only suppose, in addition
to those equal and opposite forces acting upon the two
bodies which forces are alone essential to mutual attrac­
tion, a certain power of resisting transverse pressure at
every point of the intermediate line: which additional
supposition is entirely useless, and quite unconnected
with the essential conditions of the case. When the New­
tonians were accused of introducing into philosophy an
unknown cause which they termed attraction, they justly
replied that they knew as much respecting attraction
as their opponents did about impulse. In each case we
have a knowledge of the conception in question so far as
we clearly apprehend it under the conditions of those
axioms of mechanical causation which form the basis of
our science on such subjects.
Having thus examined the degree of certainty and
generality to which our knowledge of the law of univer­
sal gravitation has been carried, by the progress of
mechanical discovery and speculation up to the present
time, we might proceed to the other branches of science,
and examine in like manner their grounds and conditions.
But before we do this, it will be worth our while to
attend for a moment to the effect which the progress of
ESTABLISHMENT OF UNIVERSAL GRAVITATION. 261
Digitized by Google
262 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
mechanical ideas among mathematicians and mechanical
philosophers has produced upon the minds of other per­
sons, who share only in an indirect and derivative man­
ner in the influence of science.
C h a p t e r X .
OF TH E G EN E RA L DIFFUSION OF CLEA R
MECHANICAL IDEAS.
1. We have seen how the progress of knowledge
upon the subject of motion and force has produced, in
the course of the world’s history, a great change in the
minds of acute and speculative men; so that such per­
sons can now reason with perfect steadiness and precision
upon subjects on which, at first, their thoughts were
vague and confused; and can apprehend, as truths of
complete certainty and evidence, laws which it required
great labour and time to discover. This complete deve-
lopement and clear manifestation of mechanical ideas
has taken place only among mathematicians and philo­
sophers. But yet a progress of thought upon such
subjects,—an advance from the obscure to the clear, and
from errour to truth,—may be traced in the world at
large, and among those who have not directly cultivated
the exact sciences. This diffused and collateral influence
of science manifests itself although in a wavering and
fluctuating manner, by various indications, at various
periods of literary history. The opinions and reasonings
which are put forth upon mechanical subjects, and above
all, the adoption, into common language, of terms and
phrases belonging to the prevalent mechanical systems,
exhibit to us the most profound discoveries and specula­
tions of philosophers in their effect upon more common
Digitized by Googk
DIFFUSION OF CLEAR MECHANICAL IDEAS. 2 6 3
and familiar trains of thought. This effect is by no
means unimportant, and we shall point out some ex­
amples of such indications as we have mentioned.
2. The discoveries of the ancients in speculative
mechanics were, as we have seen, very scanty; and
hardly extended their influence to the unmathematical
world. Yet the familiar use of the term “ center of
of gravity” preserved and suggested the most important
part ofwhat the Greeks had to teach. The other phrases
which they employed, as , , ,
force, and the like, never had any exact meaning, even
among mathematicians; and therefore never, in the
ancient world, became the means of suggesting just
habits of thought. I have pointed out, in the History
of Science, several circumstances which appear to denote
the general confusion of ideas which prevailed upon
mechanical subjects during the times of the Roman
empire. I have there taken as one of the examples of
this confusion, the fable narrated by Pliny and others
concerning the echine'fs, a small fish, which was said to
stop a ship merely by sticking to it *. This story was
adduced as betraying the absence of any steady appre­
hension of the equality of action and reaction; since the
fish, except it had some immoveable obstacle to hold by,
must be pulled forward by the ship, as much as it pulled
the ship backward. If the writers who speak of this
wonder had shown any perception of the necessity of
a reaction, either produced by the rapid motion of the
fish’s fins in the water, or in any other way, they would
not be chargeable with this confusion of thought; but
from their expressions it is, I think, evident that they
saw no such necessity f. Their idea of mechanical action
• H it l . I n d . S et. B
. iv. c. i. sect. 2.
t See Prof. Powell, Onthe Nature and Evidence of th
Motion. Reports of the Ashmotean Society. Oxford. 1837- Professor
Digitized by Google
264 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
was not sufficiently distinct to enable them to see the
absurdity of supposing an intense pressure with no
obstacle for it to exert itself against.
3. We may trace, in more modern times also, indica­
tions of a general ignorance of mechanical truths. Thus
the phrase of shooting at an object “ point-blank.” im­
plies the belief that a cannon-ball describes a path of
which the first portion is a straight line. This error
was corrected by the true mechanical principles which
Galileo and his followers brought to light; but these
principles made their way to popular notice, principally
in consequence of their application to the motions of the
solar system, and to the controversies which took place
respecting those motions. Thus by far the most power­
ful argument against the reception of the Copernican
system of the universe, was that of those who asked,
Why a stone dropt from a tower was not left behind by
the motion of the earth ? The answer to this question,
now universally familiar, involves a reference to the true
doctrine of the composition of motions. Again; Kepler’s
persevering and strenuous attempts* to frame a phy­
sical theory of the universe were frustrated by his igno­
rance of the first law of motion, which informs us that
a body will retain its velocity without any maintaining
force. He proceeded upon the supposition that the sun’s
force was requisite to keepup the motion o
Powell has made an objection to my use of this instance of confusion
of thought; the remark in the text seems to me to justify what I said
in tho History. As an evidence that the fish was not supposed to pro­
duce its effect by its muscular power acting on the water, we may take
what Pliny says, Nat.Hist., xxxii. 1, “ Domat mundi rabie
suo labore; non retiñendo, aut alio modo quam adhierendo and also
what he states in another place (ix. 41,) that when it is preserved in
picklo, it may be used in recovering gold which has fallen into a deep
well. All this implies adhesion alone, with no conception of reaction.
• Hist. Ltd. Sci., B. v. c. iv., and B. vu. c. i.
Digitized by Googk
DIFFUSION OF CLEAR MECHANICAL IDEAS. 265
as well as to deflect and modify it; and he was thus
led to a system which represented the sun as carrying
round the planets in their orbits by means of a ,
produced by his revolution. The same neglect of the
laws of motion presided in the formation of Descartes'
system of vortices. Although Descartes had enunciated
in words the laws of motion, he and his followers showed
that they had not the practical habit of referring to
these mechanical principles; and dared not trust the
planets to move in free space without some surrounding
machinery to support them*.
4. When at last mathematicians, following Newton,
had ventured to consider the motion of each planet as a
mechanical problem not different in its nature from the
motion of a stone cast from the hand; and when the
solution of this problem and its immense consequences
had become matters of general notoriety and interest;
the new views introduced, as is usual, new terms, which
soon became extensively current. We meet with such
phrases as “ flying off in the tangent,” and “ deflexion
from the tangent;” with antitheses between “centripetal”
and “centrifugal force,” or between “projectile” and
“ central force.” “Centers of force,” “ disturbing forces,”
“ perturbations,” and “ perturbations of higher orders,”
are not unfrequeutly spoken of: and the expression “ to
gravitate,” and the term “universal gravitation,” acquired
a permanent place in the language.
Yet for a long time, and even up to the present day,
we find many indications that false and confused appre­
hensions on such subjects are by no means extirpated.
• I have, in the History, applied to Descartes the character which
Bacon gives to Aristotle, “ Audax simul ct pavidusthough he was
bold enough to enunciate the laws of motion without knowing them
aright, ho had not the courage to leave the planets to describe their
orbits by the agency of those laws, without the machinery of contact.
Digitized by Googk
Arguments are urged against the mechanical system of
the universe, implying in the opponents an absence of
all clear mechanical notions. Many of this class of
writers retrograde to Kepler’s point of view. This is,
for example, the case with Lord Monboddo, who, arguing
on the assumption that force is requisite to maintain, as
well as to deflect motion, produced a series of attacks
upon the Newtonian philosophy; which he inserted in
his Ancient M
e
t
a
p
h
y
s
i
c
s
, published in 1779 and the
succeeding years. This writer (like Kepler), measures
force by the velocity which the body has*, not by that
which its gains. Such a use of language would prevent
our obtaining any laws of motion at all. Accordingly,
the author, in the very next page to that which I have
just quoted, abandons this measure of force, and, in cur­
vilinear motion, measures force by “the fall from the
extremity of the arc.” Again; in his objections to the
received theory, he denies that curvilinear motion is
compounded, although his own mode of considering such
motion assumes this composition in the only way in
which it was ever intended by mathematicians. Many
more instances might be adduced to show that a want
of cultivation of the mechanical ideas rendered this phi­
losopher incapable of judging of a mechanical system.
The following extract from the Ancient Metaphy­
sics, may be sufficient to show the value of the author’s
criticism on the subjects of which we are now speaking.
His object is to prove that there do not exist a centri­
petal and a centrifugal force in the case of elliptical
motion. “Let any man move in a circular or elliptical
line described to him; and he will find no tendency in
himself either to the center or from it, much less both.
If indeed he attempt to make the motion with great
velocity, or if he do it carelessly and inattentively, he
* Anc. Met. Vol. u. B. v. c. vi., p. 413.
266 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
Digitized by Googk
may go out of the line, either towards the center or from
it : but this is to be ascribed, not to the nature of the
motion, but to our infirmity; or perhaps to the animal
form, which is more fitted for progressive motion in a
right line than for any kind of curvilinear motion. But
this is not the case with a sphere or spheroid, which is
equally adapted to motion in all directions*.” We need
hardly remind the reader that the manner in which a
man running round a small circle, finds it necessary to
lean inwards, in order that there may be a centripetal
inclination to counteract the centrifugal force, is a
standard example of our mechanical doctrines; and this
fact (quite familiar in practice as well as theory,) is in
direct contradiction of Lord Monboddo’s assertion.
5. A similar absence of distinct mechanical thought
appears in some of the most celebrated metaphysicians
of Germany. I have elsewhere noted+ the opinion ex­
pressed by Hegel, that the glory which belongs to Kepler
has been unjustly transferred to Newton; and I have
suggested, as the explanation of this mode of thinking,
that Hegel himself, in the knowledge of mechanical
truth, had not advanced beyond Kepler’s point of view.
Persons who possess conceptions of space and number,
but who have not learnt to deal with ideas of force and
causation, may see more value in the discoveries of Kepler
than in those of Newton. Another exemplification of
this state of mind may be found in Mr. Schelling's spe­
culations ; for instance, in his Lectures on the Method of
Academical Study. In the twelfth Lecture, on the Study
of Physics and Chemistry, he says, (p. 266,) “ What the
mathematical natural philosophy has done for the know­
ledge of the law’s of the universe since the time that
they were discovered by his (Kepler’s) godlike genius, is,
* Anc. Met., Vol. i. B. ii. c. 19, p. 264.
t Hist. Ind. S c i B. vir. c. ii. sect. 5.
DIFFUSION OF CLEAR MECHANICAL IDEAS. 267
Digitized by Google
as is well known, this: it has attempted a construction
of those laws which, according to its foundations, is alto­
gether empirical. We may assume it as a general rule,
that in any proposed construction, that which is not a
pure general form cannot have any scientific import
or truth. The foundation from which the centrifugal
motion of the bodies of the world is derived, is no ne­
cessary form, it is an empirical fact. The Newtonian
attractive force, even if it be a necessary assumption for
a merely reflective view of the subject, is still of no
significance for the Reason, which recognizes only abso­
lute relations. The grounds of the Keplerian laws can
be derived, without any empirical appendage, purely
from the doctrine of Ideas, and of the two Unities, which
are in themseves one Unity, and in virtue of which each
being, while it is absolute in itself is at the same time
in the absolute, and reciprocally ”
It will be observed, that in this passage our mecha­
nical laws are objected to because they are not necessary
results of our ideas; which, however, as we have seen,
according to the opinion of some eminent mechanical
philosophers, they are. But to assume this evident
necessity as a condition of every advance in science, is
to mistake the last, perhaps unattainable step, for the
first, which lies before our feet. And, without inquiring
further about “ the Doctrine of the two Unities,” or the
manner in which from that doctrine we may deduce the
Keplerian laws, we may be well convinced that such a
doctrine cannot supply any sufficient reason to induce us
to quit the inductive path by which all scientific truth
up to the present time has been acquired.
6. But without going to schools of philosophy oppo­
sed to the Inductive School, we may find many loose and
vague habits of thinking on mechanical subjects among
the common classes of readers and reasoners. And
PHILOSOPHY OF THE MFXHANICAL SCIENCES.
Digitized by Googk
there are some familiar modes of employing the phrase­
ology of mechanical science, which are, in a certain
degree, chargeable with inaccuracy, and may produce
or perpetuate confusion. Among such cases we may
mention the way in which the centripetal and centri­
fugal forces, and also the projectile and central forces
of the planets, are often compared or opposed. Such
antitheses sometimes proceed upon the false notion that
the two members of these pairs of forces are of the
same kind: whereas on the contrary the projectile force
is a hypothetical impulsive force which may, at some
former period, have caused the motion to begin ; while
the central force is an actual force, which must act con­
tinuously and during the whole time of the motion, in
order that the motion may go on in the curve. In the
same manner the centrifugal force is not a distinct force
in a strict sense, but only a certain result of the first
law of motion, measured by the portion of centripetal
force which counteracts it. Comparisons of quantities
so heterogeneous imply confusion of thought, and often
suggest baseless speculations and imagined reforms of
the received opinions.
7. I might point out other terms and maxims, in
addition to those already mentioned, which, though for­
merly employed in a loose and vague manner, are now
accurately understood and employed by all just thinkers;
and thus secure and diffuse a right understanding of me­
chanical truths. Such are minertia, qua
of matter, quantity of m otionthat force is proportional
to its effects’
, that action and reaction are equal-, that
what is gained in force by machinery is lost in time;
that the quantity of motion in the world cannot be
increased or diminished. When the expression of the
truth thus becomes easy and simple, clear and con­
vincing, the meanings given to words and phrases by
DIFFUSION OF CLEAR MECHANICAL IDEAS. 2 6 9
Digitized by Google
discoverers glide into the habitual texture of men’s rea­
sonings, and the effect of the establishment of true
mechanical principles is felt far from the school of the
mechanician. If these terms and maxims are understood
with tolerable clearness, they carry the influence of
truth to those who have no direct access to its sources.
Many an extravagant project in practical machinery, and
many a wild hypothesis in speculative physics, has been
repressed by the general currency of such maxims as we
have just quoted.
8. Indeed so familiar and evident are the elementary
truths of mechanics when expressed in this simple form,
that they are received as truisms; and men are disposed
to look back with surprize and scorn at the speculations
which were carried on in neglect of them. The most
superficial reasoner of modern times thinks himself enti­
tled to speak with contempt and ridicule of Kepler’s
hypothesis concerning the physical causes of the celestial
motions: and gives himself credit for intellectual supe­
riority, because he sees, as self-evident, what such a man
could not discover at all. It is well for such a person to
recollect, that the real cause of his superior insight is
not the pre-eminence of his faculties, but the successful
labours of those who have preceded him. The language
which he has learnt to use unconsciously, has been
adapted to, and moulded on, ascertained truths. When
he talks familiarly of “accelerating forces” and “ de­
flexions from the tangent,” he is assuming that which
Kepler did not know, and which it cost Galileo and his
disciples so much labour and thought to establish. Lan­
guage is often called an instrument of thought; but it
is also the nutriment of thought; or rather, it is the
atmosphere in which thought lives: a medium essential
to the activity of our speculative power, although invi­
sible and imperceptible in its operation; and an element
270 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
Digitized by Googk
DIFFUSION OF CLEAR MECHANICAL IDEAS. 271
modifying, by its qualities and changes, the growth and
complexion of the faculties which it feeds. In this way
the influence of preceding discoveries upon subsequent
ones, of the past upon the present, is most penetrating
and universal, though most subtle and difficult to trace.
The most familiar words and phrases are connected by
imperceptible ties with the reasonings and discoveries of
former men and distant times. Their knowledge is an
inseparable part of ours; the present generation inherits
and uses the scientific wealth of all the past. And this
is the fortune, not only of the great and rich in the
intellectual world: of those who have the key to the
ancient storehouses, and who have accumulated treasures
of their own;— but the humblest inquirer, while he
puts his reasonings into words, benefits by the labours
of the greatest discoverers. When he counts his little
wealth, he finds that he has in his hands coins which
bear the image and superscription of ancient and modem
intellectual dynasties; and that in virtue of this posses­
sion, acquisitions are in his power, solid knowledge
within his reach, which none could ever have attained
to, if it were not that the gold of truth, once dug out of
the mine, circulates more and more widely among man­
kind.
9. Having so fully examined, in the preceding in­
stances, the nature of the progress of thought which
science implies, both among the peculiar cultivators of
science, and in that wider world of general culture which
receives only an indirect influence from scientific disco­
veries, we shall not find it necessary to go into the same
extent of detail with regard to the other provinces of
human knowledge. In the case of the Mechanical
Sciences, we have endeavoured to show, not only that
Ideas are requisite in order to form into a science the
Facts which nature offers to us, but that we can advance,
Digitized by Google
almost or quite, to a complete identification of the Facts
with the Ideas. In the sciences to which we now pro­
ceed, we shall not seek to fill up the chasm by which
Facts and Ideas are separated; but we shall endeavour
to detect the Ideas which our knowledge involves, to
show how essential these are; and in some respects to
trace the mode in which they have been gradually de­
veloped among men.
10. The motions of the heavenly bodies, their laws,
their causes, are among the subjects of the first division
of the Mechanical Sciences; and of these sciences we
formerly sketched the history, and have now endeavoured
to exhibit the philosophy. If we were to take any other
class of motions, their laws and causes might give rise
to sciences which would be mechanical sciences in exactly
the same sense in which Physical Astronomy is so. The
phenomena of magnets, of electrical bodies, of galva-
nical apparatus, seem to form obvious materials for such
sciences; and if they were so treated, the philosophy of
such branches of knowledge would naturally come under
our consideration at this point of our progress.
But on looking more attentively at the sciences of
Electricity, Magnetism, and Galvanism, we discover
cogent reasons for transferring them to another part of
our arrangement; we find it advisable to associate them
with Chemistry, and to discuss their principles when
we can connect them with the principles of chemical
science. For though the first steps and narrower gene­
ralizations of these sciences depend upon mechanical
ideas, the highest laws and widest generalizations which
we can reach respecting them, involve chemical rela­
tions. The progress of these portions of knowledge is
in some respects opposite to the progress of Physical
Astronomy. In this, we begin with phenomena which
appear to indicate peculiar and various qualities in the
272 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
Digitized by Google
bodies which we consider, (namely, the heavenly bodies,)
and we find in the end that all these qualities resolve
themselves into one common mechanical property, which
exists alike in all bodies and parts of bodies. On the
contrary, in studying magnetical and electrical laws, we
appear at first to have a single extensive phenomenon,
attraction and repulsion: but in our attempts to gene­
ralize this phenomenon, we find that it is governed by
conditions depending upon something quite separate
from the bodies themselves, upon the presence and dis­
tribution of peculiar and transitory agencies; and, so far
as we can discover, the general laws of these agencies
are of a chemical nature, and are brought into action by
peculiar properties of special substances. In cosmical
phenomena, everything, in proportion as it is referred to
mechanical principles, tends to simplicity,—to permanent
uniform forces,—to one common, positive, property. In
magnetical and electrical appearances, on the contrary,
the application of mechanical principles leads only to
a new complexity, which requires a new explanation;
and this explanation involves changeable and various
forces,—gradations and oppositions of qualities. The
doctrine of the universal gravitation of matter is a simple
and ultimate truth, in which the mind can acquiesce
and repose. We rank gravity among the mechanical
attributes of matter, and we see no necessity to derive
it from any ulterior properties. Gravity belongs to mat­
ter, independent of any conditions. But the conditions of
magnetic or electrical activity require investigation as
much as the laws of their action. Of these conditions
no mere mechanical explanation.can be given; we are
compelled to take along with us chemical properties
and relations also: and thus magnetism, electricity, gal­
vanism, are mechanico-chemical sciences.
11. Before considering these, therefore, I shall treat
VOL. i. w . p. T
DIFFUSION OF CLEAR MECHANICAL IDEAS. 273
Digitized by Google
of what I shall call Secondary Mechanical Sciences; by
which expression I mean the sciences depending upon
certain qualities which our senses discover to us in
bodies;— Optics, which has visible phenomena for its
subject; Acoustics, the science of hearing; the doctrine
of Heat, a quality which our touch recognizes: to this
last science 1 shall take the liberty of sometimes giving
the name Thermotics, analogous to the names of the
other two. If our knowledge of the phenomena of Smell
and Taste had been successfully cultivated and syste­
matized, the present part of our work would be the
place for the philosophical discussion of those sensations
as the subjects of science.
The branches of knowledge thus grouped in one class
involve common Fundamental Ideas, from which their
principles are derived in a mode analogous, at least in
a certain degree, to the mode in which the principles of
the mechanical sciences are derived from the funda^
mental ideas of causation and reaction. We proceed
now to consider these Fundamental Ideas, their nature,
development, and consequences.
274 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
ADDITIONAL NOTE TO CHAPTER IV.—ON THE AXIOMS
W HICH RELATE TO THE IDEA OF CAUSE.
T h e Axiom that Reaction is equal and opposite to , may appear
to be at variance with a maxim concerning Cause which is commonly
current; namely, that the “ Cause precedes Effect, and Effect follows
Cause.” For it may be said, if A , the Action, and R, the Reaction, can
be considered as mutually the cause of each other, A must precede R,
and yet must follow it, which is impossible. But to this I reply, that
in those cases of direct Causation to which the maxim applies, the Cause
and Effect are not successive, but simultaneous. If I press against some
obstacle, the obstacle resists and returns the pressure at the instant it is
exerted, not after any interval of time, however small. The common
Digitized by Google
NOTES ON CHAPTERS IV. AND VI. 275
maxim, that the effect follows the cause, has arisen from the practice of
considering, as examples of cause and effect, not instantaneous forces or
causes, and the instantaneous changes which they produce; but taking,
instead of this latter, the cumulative effects produced in the course of
time, and compared with like results occurring without the aetion of the
cause. Thus, if we alter the length of a clock-pendulum, this change
produces, as its effect, a subsequent change of rate in the cloek : because
the rate is measured by the accumulated effects ofthe pendulums gravity,
before and after the change. But the pendulum produces its mechanical
effect upon the escapement, at the moment of its contact, and each
wheel upon the next, at the moment of its contact. As has been said
in a Review of this work, u The time lost in cases of indirect physical
causation is consumed in the movements which take place among the
parts of the mechanism in action, by which the active forces so trans­
formed into momentum are transported over intervals of space to new
points of aotion, the motion of matter in such cases being regarded as a
mere carrier of force.'* (Quarterly Bev.y No, cxxxv., p. 212.) See this
subject further treated in a Memoir entitled, “ Discussion of the Ques­
tion :~r-Are Cause and Effect Successive or Simultaneous ?" in the
Memoirs of the Cambridge Philosophical Society, Vol. vil. Part in.
ADDITIONAL NOTE TO CHAPTER VI., SECT. 5.—ON
THE CENTER OF GRAVITY.
To the doctrine that mechanical principles, such as the ope here under
consideration (that the pr^ssj^ Pn tfre point of syppori is equal to the
sum of the weights), are derived from our Ideas, and do not flow from
but regnlate our experience, objections are naturally n?ade by those who
assert all our knowledge to be derived from experience. How, they ask,
can we know the properties of pressures, levers and the like, except
from experience ? What but experience can possibly inform us that a
force applied transversely to a lever will have any tendency t° turn the
lever on its center ? This cannot be, except we suppose in the lever
tenacity, rigidity and the like, which are qualities known only by
experience. And it is obvious that this line of argument might be
carried on through the whole subject.
My answer to this objection is a remark of the same kind as one
which I have made respecting the Ideas of Space, Time, and Number,
in a Note at the end of Chapter x. of the last Book. The mind, in
apprehending events as causes and effects, is governed by Laws of its
own Activity ; and these Laws govern the results of the mind*a action ;
T 2
Digitized by Googk
276 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
and make these results conform to the Axioms of Causation. But this
activity of the mind is awakened and developed by being exercised ;
and in dealing with the examples of cause and effect here spoken of,
(namely, pressure and resistance, force and motion,) the mind's activity
is necessarily governed also by the bodily powers of perception and
action. We are human beings only in so far as we have existed in Bpace
and time, and of our human faculties, developed by our existence in space
and time, space and time are necessary conditions. In like manner, we
are human beings only in so far as we have bodies, and bodily organs;
and our bodies necessarily imply material objects external to us. And
hence our human faculties, developed by our bodily existence in a
material world, have the conditions of matter for their necessary Laws.
I have already said (Chap, v.) that our conception of Force arises with
our consciousness of our own muscular exertions;—that Force cannot
be conceived without Resistance to exercise itself upon;—and that this
resistance is supplied by Matter. And thus the conception of Matter,
and of the most general modes in which Matter receives, resists, and
transmits force, are parts of our constitution which, though awakened
and unfolded by our being in a material world, are not distinguishable
from the original structure of the mind. I do not ascribe to the
mind Ideas which it would have, even if it had no intercourse with
the world of space, time, and matter; because we cannot imagine a
mind in such a state. But I attempt to point out and classify those
Conditions of all Experience, to which the intercourse of all minds with
the material world has necessarily given rise in all. Truths thus neces­
sarily acquired in the course of all experience, cannot be said to be
learntfrom experience, in the same sense in which particular facts, at
definite times, are learnt from experience, learnt by some persons and
not by others, learnt with more or less of certainty. These latter
special truths of experience will be very important subjects of our con­
sideration; but our whole chance of discussing them with any profit
depends upon our keeping them distinct from the necessary and uni­
versal conditions o f experience. Here, as everywhere, we must keep
in view the fundamental antithesis of Ideas and Facts.
Digitized by Googk
277
BOOK 1Y.
THE PH ILO SO PH Y OF TH E SECONDARY
M ECHANICAL .
C h a p t e r I.
OF THE IDEA OF A MEDIUM AS COMMONLY
EMPLOYED.
1. Of Prim ary and Secondary Qualities.—In the
same way in which the mechanical sciences depend upon
the Idea of Cause, and have their principles regulated
by the development of that Idea, it will be found that
the sciences which have for their subject Sound, Light,
and Heat, depend for their principles upon the Funda­
mental Idea of Media by means of which we perceive
those qualities. Like the idea of cause, this idea of a
medium is unavoidably employed, more or less distinctly,
in the common, unscientific operations of the under­
standing; and is recognized as an express principle in
the earliest speculative essays of man. But here also,
as in the case of the mechanical sciences, the develope-
ment of the idea, and the establishment of the scientific
truths which depend upon it, was the business of a
succeeding period, and was only executed by means of
long and laborious researches, conducted with a constant
reference to experiment and observation.
Among the most prominent manifestations of the
influence of the idea of a medium of which we have
now to speak, is the distinction of the qualities into
Digitized by Google
primary, and secondary qualities. This distinction has
been constantly spoken of in modern times: yet it has
often been a subject of discussion among metaphysicians
whether there be really such a distinction, and what the
true difference is. Locke states it thus*: original or
primary qualities of bodies are “ such as are utterly in­
separable from the body in what estate soever it may
be,—such as sense constantly finds in every particle of
matter which has bulk enough to be perceived, and the
mind finds inseparable from every particle of matter,
though less than to make itself singly perceived by our
s e n s e s a n d he enumerates them as solidity, extension,
figure, motion or rest, and number. Secondary qualities,
on the other hand, are such “which in truth are nothing
in the objects themselves, but powers to produce various
sensations in us by their primary qualities, i. e., by the
bulk, figure, texture, and motion of their insensible
parts, as colours, sounds, tastes, &c.”
Dr. Reidf, reconsidering this subject, puts the differ­
ence in another way. There is, he says, a real foundation
for the distinction of primary and secondary qualities^
and it iB this: “ That our senses give us a direct and dis­
tinct notion of the primary qualities, and inform us what
they are in themselves; but of the secondary qualities,
our senses give us only a relative and obscure notion.
They inform us only that they are qualities that affect us
in a certain manner, that is, produce in us a certain sen­
sation ; but as to what they are in themselves, our senses
leave us in the dark.”
Dr. Brown| states the distinction somewhat other­
wise. We give the name of matter, he observes, to that
which has extension and resistance: these, therefore, are
primary qualities of matter, because they compose our
• Essay,B. ii. ch. vin. s. 9, 10. t Essays, B. n. c. xvii.
t Lectures, n . 12.
278 PHILOSOPHY OF SECONDARY MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
Digitized by Google
OF THE IDEA OF A MEDIUM. 279
definition of it. All other qualities are secondary, since
they are ascribed to bodies only because we find them
associated with the primary qualities which form our
notion of those bodies.
It is not necessary to criticize very strictly these vari­
ous distinctions. If it were, it would be easy to find
objections to them. Thus Locke, it may be observed,
does not point out any reason for believing that his
secondary qualities are produced by the primary. How
are we to learn that the colour of a rose arises from the
bulk, figure, texture, and motion of its particles ? Cer­
tainly our senses do not teach us this; and in what other
way, on Locke’s principles, can we learn it? Reid’s
statement is not more free from the same objection.
How does it appear that our notion of Warmth is rela­
tive to our own sensations more than our notion of
Solidity ? And if we take Brown’s account, we may still
ask whether our selection of certain qualities to form
our idea and definition of matter be arbitrary and with­
out reason? If it be, how can it make a real distinction?
if it be not, what is the reason ?
I do not press these objections, because I believe that
any of the above accounts of the distinction of primary
and secondary qualities is right in the main, however
imperfect it may be. The difference between such
qualities as Extension and Solidity on the one hand,
and Colour or Fragrance on the other, is assented to
by all, with a conviction so firm and indestructible, that
there must be some fundamental principle at the bottom
of the belief however difficult it may be to clothe the
principle in words. That successive efforts to express
the real nature of the difference were made by men so
clear-sighted and acute as those whom I have quoted,
even if none of them are satisfactory, shows how strong
and how deeply-seated is the perception of truth which
impels us to such attempts.
Digitized by Googk
1
The most obvious mode of stating the difference of
primary and secondary qualities, as it naturally offers
itself to speculative minds, appears to be that employed
by Locke, slightly modified. Certain of the qualities of
bodies, as their bulk, ,figure, and motion, are perceived
immediately in the bodies themselves. Certain other
qualities as sound, colour, heat, are perceived by means
of some medium. Our conviction that this is the case
is spontaneous and irresistible ; and this difference of
qualities immediately and mediately perceived is the dis­
tinction of primary and secondary qualities. We proceed
further to examine this conviction.
2. The Idea qf Externality.—In reasoning concern­
ing the secondary qualities of bodies, we are led to assume
the bodies to be external to us, and to be perceived by
means of some medium intermediate between us and
them. These assumptions are fundamental conditions
of perception, inseparable from it even in thought.
That objects are external to us, that they are without
us, that they have outness, is as clear as it is that these
words have any meaning at all. This conviction is, in­
deed, involved in the exercise of that faculty by which
we perceive all things as existing in space ; for by this
faculty we place ourselves and other objects in one com­
mon space, and thus they are exterior to us. It may be
remarked that this apprehension of objects as external
to us, although it assumes the idea of space, is far from
being implied in the idea of space. The objects which
we contemplate are considered as existing in space, and
by that means become invested with certain mutual rela­
tions of position ; but when we consider them as existing
without us, we make the additional step of supposing
ourselves and the objects to exist in one common space.
The question respecting the Ideal Theory of Berkeley has
been mixed up with the recognition of this condition of
the externality of objects. That philosopher maintained,
280 PHILOSOPHY OP SECONDARY MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
Digitized by Google
OF THE IDEA OF A MEDIUM. 281
as is well known, that the perceptible qualities of bodies
have no existence except in a perceiving mind. This
system has often been understood as if he had imagined
the world to be a kind of optical illusion, like the images
which we see when we shut our eyes, appearing to be
without us, though they are only in our organs; and
thus this Ideal System has been opposed to a belief in
an external world. In truth, however, no such opposi­
tion exists. The Ideal System is an attempt to explain
the mental process of perception, and to get over the
difficulty of mind being affected by matter. But the
author of that system did not deny that objects were
perceived under the conditions of space and mechanical
causation;—that they were external and material so far
as those words describe perceptible qualities. Berkeley’s
system, however visionary or erroneous, did not prevent
his entertaining views as just, concerning optics or acous­
tics, as if he had held any other doctrine of the nature
o f perception.
But when Berkeley’s theory was understood as a
denial of the existence of objects without us, how was it
answered ? If we examine the answers which are given
by Reid and other philosophers to this hypothesis, it will
be found that they amount to this: that objects
without us, since we perceive that they are so; that we
perceive them to be external, by the same act by which
we perceive them to be objects. And thus, in this stage
of philosophical inquiry, the externality of objects is re­
cognized as one of the inevitable conditions of our per­
ception of them ; and hence the Idea of Externality is
adopted as one of the necessary foundations of all rea­
soning concerning all objects whatever.
3. Sensation by a Medium.—Objects, as we have just
seen, are necessarily apprehended as without us; and in
general, as removed from us by a great or small distance.
Digitized by Googk
Yet they affect our bodily senses; and this leads us ir­
resistibly to the conviction that they are perceived by
means of something intermediate. Vision, or hearing,
or smell, or the warmth of a fire, must be communicated
to us by some medium of sensation. This unavoidable
belief appears in all attempts, the earliest and the latest
alike, to speculate upon such subjects. Thus, for in­
stance, Aristotle says*, “ Seeing takes place in virtue of
some action which the sentient organ suffers: now it
cannot suffer action from the colour of the object di­
rectly : the only remaining possible case then is, that it
is acted upon by an intervening Medium; there must
then be an intervening Medium.” “And the same may
be said,” he adds, “ concerning sounding and odorous
bodies; for these do not produce sensation by touching
the sentient organ, but the intervening Medium is acted
on by the sound or the smell, and the proper organ, by
the Medium....In sound the Medium is air; in smell we
have no name for it.” In the sense of taste, the neces­
sity of a Medium is not at first so obviously seen, because
the object tasted is brought into contact with the organ;
but a little attention convinces us that the taste of a
solid body can only be perceived when it is conveyed
in some liquid vehicle. Till the fruit is crushed, and
till its juices are pressed out, we do not distinguish its
flavour. In the case of heat, it is still more clear that
we are compelled to suppose some invisible fluid, or
other means of communication, between the distant body
which warms us and ourselves.
It may appear to some persons that the assumption
of an intermedium between the object perceived and the
sentient organ results from the principles which form
the basis of our mechanical reasonings,—that every
change must have a cause, and that bodies can act upon
• I7c/)I II. 7.
282 PHILOSOPHY OF SECONDARY MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
Digitized by Googk
OF THE IDEA OF A MEDIUM. 283
each other only by contact. It cannot be denied that
this principle does offer itself very naturally as the
ground of our beliefin media of sensation; and it appears
to be referred to for this purpose by Aristotle in the
passage quoted above. But yet we cannot but ask,
Does the principle, that matter produces its effect by
contact only, manifestly apply here ? When we so apply
it, we include sensation among the effects which material
contact produces;—a case so different from any merely
mechanical effect, that the principle, so employed, ap­
pears to acquire a new signification. May we not, then,
rather say that we have here a new axiom,—That sensa­
tion implies a material cause immediately acting on the
organ,—than a new application of our former proposi­
tion,—That all mechanical change implies contact ?
The solution of this doubt is not of any material con­
sequence to our reasonings; for whatever be the ground
of the assumption, it is certain that we do assume the
existence of media by which the sensations of sight,
hearing, and the like, are produced; and it will be seen
shortly that principles inseparably connected with this
assumption are the basis of the sciences now before us.
This assumption makes its appearance in the physical
doctrines of all the schools of philosophy. It is ex­
hibited perhaps most prominently in the tenets of the
Epicureans, who were materialists, and extended to all
kinds of causation the axiom of the existence of a cor­
poreal mechanism by which alone the effect is produced.
Thus, according to them, vision is produced by certain
images or material films which flow from the object,
strike upon the eyes, and so become sensible. This
opinion is urged with great detail and earnestness by
Lucretius, the poetical expositor of the Epicurean creed
among the Romans. His fundamental conviction of the
necessity of a material medium is obviously the basis of
Digitized by Googk
2 8 4 PHILOSOPHY OF SECONDARY MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
his reasoning, though he attempts to show the existence
of such a medium by facts. Thus he argues *, that by
shouting loud we make the throat sore; which shows,
he says, that the voice must be material, so that it can
hurt the passage in coming out.
Haud igitur dubium est quin voces verbaque constent
Corporeis e principiis ut laedere possint. ,
4. The Process of Perception qf Secondary Quali­
ties.—The likenesses or representatives of objects by
which they affect our senses were called by some writers
species, or sensible species, a term which continued in
use till the revival of science. It may be observed that
the conception of these species as films cast off from the
object, and retaining its shape, was different, as we have
seen, from the view which Aristotle took, though it has
sometimes been called the Peripatetic doctrine f. We
may add that the expression was latterly applied to
express the supposition of an emanation of any kind, and
implied little more than that supposition of a medium
of which we are now speaking. Thus Bacon, after re­
viewing the phenomena of sound, says:}:, “ Videntur
motus soni fieri per species spirituales: ita enim loquen-
dum donee certius quippiam inveuiatur.”
Though the fundamental principles of several sciences
depend upon the assumption of a medium of perception,
these principles do not at all depend upon any special
view of the process of our perceptions. The mechanism
of that process is a curious subject of consideration; but
it belongs to physiology, more properly than either to
metaphysics, or to those branches of physics of which we
are now speaking. The general nature of the process is
the same for all the senses. The object affects the ap­
propriate intermedium; the medium, through the proper
* Lib. iv. 529 t Brown, Vol. ii. p. 98.
$ Hist. Son.et Aud., Vol. ix. p. 87.
Digitized by Google
OF THE IDEA OF A MEDIUM. 285
organ, the eye, the ear, the nose, affects the nerves of
the particular sense; and, by these, in some way, the
sensation is conveyed to the mind. But to treat the
impression upon the nerves as the act of sensation which
we have to consider, would be to mistake our object,
which is not the constitution of the human body, but of
the human mind. It would be to mistake one link for
the power which holds the end of the chain. No anato­
mical analysis of the corporeal conditions of vision, or
hearing, or feeling warm, is necessary to the sciences of
Optics, or Acoustics, or Thermotics.
Not only is this physiological research an extraneous
part of our subject, but a partial pursuit of such a
research may mislead the inquirer. We perceive objects
by means qf certain media, and by means of certain
impressions on the nerves: but we cannot with pro­
priety say that we perceive either the media or the
impressions on the nerves. What person in the act of
seeing is conscious of the little coloured spaces on the
retina? or of the motions of the bones of the auditory
apparatus whilst he is hearing? Surely, no one. This
may appear obvious enough, and yet a writer of no
common acuteness, Dr. Brown, has put forth several
very strange opinions, all resting upon the doctrine that
the coloured spaces on the retina are the objects which
we perceive; and there are some supposed difficulties
and paradoxes on the same subject which have become
quite celebrated (as upright vision with inverted images),
arising from the same confusion of thought.
As the consideration of the difficulties which have
arisen respecting the philosophy of perception may serve
still further to illustrate the principles on which we
necessarily reason respecting the secondary qualities of
bodies, I shall here devote a few pages to that subject.
Digitized by Googk
2 8 6
Chapter II.
ON PECULIARITIES IN THE PERCEPTIONS OF
THE DIFFERENT SENSES.
1. We cannot doubt that we perceive all secondary
qualities by means of immediate impressions made,
through the proper medium of sensation, upon our
organs. Hence all the senses are sometimes vaguely
spoken of as modifications of the sense of feeling. It
will, however, be seen, on reflection, that this mode of
speaking identifies in words things which in our concep­
tions have nothing in common. No impression on the
organs of touch can be conceived as having any resem­
blance to colour or smell. No effort, no ingenuity, can
enable us to describe the impressions of one sense in
terms borrowed from another.
The senses have, however, each its peculiar powers,
and these powers may be in some respects compared, so
as to show their leading resemblances and differences,
and the characteristic privileges and laws of each. This
is what we shall do as briefly as possible.
Sect. I.— Prerogatives of Sight.
The sight distinguishes colours, as the hearing distin­
guishes tones; the sight estimates degrees of brightness,
the ear, degrees of loudness; but with several resem­
blances, there are most remarkable differences between
these two senses.
2. Position— The sight has this peculiar prerogative,
that it apprehends the place of its objects directly and
primarily. We see where an object is at the same in­
stant that we see what it is. If we see two objects, we
see their relative position. We cannot help perceiving
Digitized by Google
that one is above or below, to the right or to the left of
the other, if we perceive them at all.
There is nothing corresponding to this in sound.
When we hear a noise, we do not necessarily assign a
place to it. It may easily happen that we cannot tell
from which side a thunder-clap comes. And though we
often can judge in what direction a voice is heard, this is
a matter of secondary impression, and of inference from
concomitant circumstances, not a primary fact of sensa­
tion. The judgments which we form concerning the
position of sounding bodies are obtained by the con­
scious or unconscious comparison of the impressions
made on the two ears, and on the bones of the head in
general; they are not inseparable conditions of hearing.
We may hear sounds, and be uncertain whether they are
“ above, around, or underneath!” but the moment any
thing visible appears, however unexpected, we can say,
“see where it comes!”
Since we can see the relative position of things, we
can see f
i
g
u
r
e,which is but the relative position of the
different parts of the boundary of the object. And thus
the whole visible world exhibits to us a scene of various
shapes, coloured and shaded according to their form and
position, but each having relations of position to all the
rest; and altogether, entirely filling up the whole range
which the eye can command.
3. Distance.—The distance of objects from us is no
matter of immediate perception, but is a judgment and
inference formed from our sensations, in the same way
as pur judgment of position by the ear. That this is so,
was most distinctly shown by Berkeley, in his New
Theory of Vision. The elements on which we form our
judgment are, the effort by which we fix both eyes on
the same object, the effort by which we adjust each eye
to distinct vision, and the known forms, colours, and
PECULIARITIES OF THE PERCEPTIONS. 287
Digitized by Google
288 PHILOSOPHY OF SECONDARY MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
parts of objects, as compared with their appearance.
The right interpretation of the information which these
circumstances give us respecting the true distances and
forms of things, is gradually learnt by experience, the
lesson being begun in our earliest infancy, and incul­
cated upon us every horn* during which we use our eyes.
The completeness with which the lesson is learnt is
truly admirable; for we forget that our conclusion is
obtained indirectly, and mistake a judgment on evidence
for an intuitive perception. This, however, is not more
surprizing than the rapidity and unconsciousness of effort
with which we understand the meaning of the speech
that we hear, or the book that we read. In both cases,
the habit of interpretation is become as familiar as the
act of perception. And this is the case with regard to
vision. We see the breadth of the street as clearly and
readily as we see the house on the other side of it. We
see the house to be square, however obliquely it be pre­
sented to us. Indeed the difficulty is, to recover the
consciousness of our real and original sensations;—to
discover what is the apparent relation of the lines which
appear before us. As we have already said, in the com­
mon process of vision we suppose ourselves to see that
which cannot be seen; and when we would make a
picture of an object, the difficulty is to represent what is
visible and no more.
But perfect as is our habit of interpreting what we
perceive, we could not interpret if we did not perceive.
If the eye did not apprehend visible position, it could
not infer actual position, which is collected from visible
position as a consequence : if we did not see apparent
figure, we could not arrive at any opinion concerning
real form. The perception of place, which is the prero­
gative of the eye, is the basis of all its other superiority.
The precision with which the eye can judge of appa-
Digitized by Googk
rent position is remarkable. If we had before us two
stars distant from each other by one-twentieth of the
moon's diameter, we could easily decide the apparent
direction of the one from the other, as above or below,
to the right or left. Yet eight millions of stars might be
placed in the visible hemisphere of the sky at such dis­
tances from each other; and thus the eye would recog­
nize the relative position in a portion of its range not
greater than one eight-millionth of the whole. Such is
the accuracy of the sense of vision in this respect; and,
indeed, we might with truth have stated it much higher.
Our judgment of the position of distant objects in a
landscape depends upon features far more minute than
the magnitude we have here described.
As our object is to point out principally the differ­
ences of the senses, we do not dwell upon the delicacy
with which we distinguish tints and shades, but proceed
to another sense.
Sect. II.—Prerogatives of Hearing.
T he sense of hearing has two remarkable prerogatives;
it can perceive a definite and peculiar relation between
certain tones, and it can clearly perceive two tones to­
gether; in both these circumstances it is distinguished
from vision, and from the other senses.
4. Musical Intervals.—We perceive that two tones
have, or have not, certain definite relations to each
other, which we call Concords: one sound is a Fifth, an
Octave, &c., above the other. And when this is the case,
our perception of the relation is extremely precise. It
is easy to perceive when a fifth is out of tune by one-
twentieth of a tone; that is, by one-seventieth of itself.
To this there is nothing analogous in vision. Colours
have certain vague relations to one another; they look
well together, by contrast or by resemblance; but this
V O L . i. w \ p. U
PKCULIAlt!TIES OF THE PERCEPTIONS. 28il
Digitized by Googk
290 PHILOSOPHY OF SECONDARY MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
is an indefinite, and in most cases a casual and variable
feeling. The relation of complementary colours to one
another, as of red to green, is somewhat more definite;
but still, has nothing of the exactness and peculiarity
which belongs to a musical concord. In the case of the
two sounds, there is an exact point at which the relation
obtains; when by altering one note we pass this point,
the concord does not gradually fade away, but instantly
becomes a discord; and if we go further still, we obtain
another concord of quite a different character.
We learn from the theory of sound that concords
occur when the times of vibration of the notes have
exact simple ratios; an octave has these times as 1 to 2;
a fifth, as 2 to 3. According to the undulatory theory
of light, such ratios occur in colours, yet the eye is not
affected by them in any peculiar way. The times of the
undulations of certain red and certain violet rays are
as 2 to 3, but we do not perceive any peculiar harmony
or connexion between those colours.
5. Chords.— Again, the ear has this prerogative, that
it can apprehend two notes together, yet distinct. If
two notes, distant by a fifth from each other, are sounded
on two wind instruments, both they and their musical
relation are clearly perceived. There is not a mixture,
but a concord, an interval. In colours, the case is other­
wise. If blue and yellow fall on the same spot, they
form green; the colour is simple to the eye; it can no
more be decomposed by the vision than if it were the
simple green of the prismatic spectrum: it is impossible
for us, by sight, to tell whether it is so or not.
These are very remarkable differences of the two
senses: two colours can be compounded into an appa­
rently simple one; two sounds cannot: colours pass into
each other by gradations and intermediate tints; sounds
pass from one concord to another by no gradations: the
Digitized by Google
PECULIARITIES OF THE PERCEPTIONS. 291
most intolerable discord is that which is near a concord.
We shall hereafter see how these differences affect the
¡scales of sound and of colour.
6. Rhythm.—We might remark, that as we see ob­
jects in space, we hear sounds in tim e; and that we thus
introduce an arrangement among sounds which has
several analogies with the arrangement of objects in
space. But the conception of time does not seem to be
peculiarly connected with the sense of hearing; a faculty
of apprehending tone and time, or in musical phrase­
ology tune and rhythm, are certainly very distinct. I
shall not, therefore, here dwell upon such analogies.
The other Senses have not any peculiar prerogatives,
at least none which bear on the formation of science. I
may, however, notice, in the feeling of heat, this cir­
cumstance ; that it presents us with two opposites, heat
and cold, which graduate into each other. This is not
quite peculiar, for vision also exhibits to us white and
black, which are clearly opposites, and which pass into
each other by the shades of gray.
Sect. III.— The Paradoxes qf Vision.
7. First Paradox of Vision. Upright Vision.—
All our senses appear to have this in common;—That
they act by means of organs, in which a bundle of nerves
receives the impression of the appropriate medium of
the sense. In the construction of these organs there are
great differences and peculiarities, corresponding, in part
at least, to the differences in the information given.
Moreover, in some cases, as we have noted in the case of
audible position and visible distance, that which seems
to be a perception is really a judgment founded on per­
ceptions of which we are not directly aware. It will be
seen, therefore, that with respect to the peculiar powers
of each seuse, it may be asked;—whether they can be
U 2
Digitized by Googk
explained by the construction of the peculiar organ;—
whether they are acquired judgments and not direct
perceptions;—or whether they are inexplicable in either
of these ways, and cannot, at present at least, be re­
solved into anything but conditions of the intellectual
act of perception.
Two of these questions with regard to vision, have
been much discussed by psychological writers: the cause
of our seeing objects upright by inverted images on
the retina; and of our seeing single with two such
images.
Physiologists have very completely explained the
exquisitely beautiful mechanism of the eye, considered
as analogous to an optical instrument; and it is in­
disputable that by means of certain transparent lenses
and humours, an inverted image of the objects which
are looked at is formed upon the retina, or fine net­
work of nerve, with which the back of the eye is lined.
We cannot doubt that the impression thus produced on
these nerves is essential to the act of vision; and so far
as we consider the nerves themselves to feel or perceive
by contact, we may say that they perceive this image,
or the affections of light which it indicates. But we
cannot with any propriety say that we perceive, or that
our mind perceives, this image; for we are not conscious
of it, and none but anatomists are aware of its existence:
we perceive bymeans of it.
A difficulty has been raised, and dwelt upon in a
most unaccountable manner, arising from the neglect of
this obvious distinction. It has been asked, how is it
that we see an object, a man for instance, upright, when
the immediate object of our sensation, the image of the
man on our retina, is inverted ? To this we must answer,
that we see him upright because the image is inverted;
that the inserted image is the necessary means of seeing
292 PHILOSOPHY OF 8ECONDAHY MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
Digitized by Google
an upright object. This is granted, and where then is
the difficulty? Perhaps it may be put thus: How is it
that we do not judge the man to be inverted, since the
sensible image is so? To this we may reply, that we
have no notion of upright or inverted, except that which
is founded on experience, and that all our experience,
without exception, must have taught us that such- a
sensible image belongs to a man who is in an upright
position. Indeed, the contrary judgment is not con­
ceivable ; a man is upright whose head is upwards and
his feet downwards. But what are the sensible images
ofupwards and downwards ? Whatever be our standard
of up and down, the sensible representation of up will be
an image moving oh the retina towards the lowei* side,
and the sensible representation of down will be a motion
towards the upper side. The head of the man’s image is
towards the image of the sky, its feet are towards the
image of the ground; how then should it appear other­
wise than upright ? Do we expect that the whole world
should appear inverted ? Be it so: but if the whole be
inverted, how is the relation of the parts altered ? Do
we expect that we should think our own persons in par­
ticular inverted ? This cannot be, for we look at them
as we do at other objects. Do we expect that things
should appear to fall upwards ? Surely not. For what
do we know of upwards, except that it is the direction
in which bodies do not fall? In short, the whole of
this difficulty, though it has in no small degree embar­
rassed metaphysicians, appears to result from a very
palpable confusion of ideas; from an attempt at com­
parison of what we see, with that which the retina feels,
as if they were separately presentable. It is a sufficient
explanation to say, that we do not see the image on the
retina, but see by means of it. The perplexity does not
require much more skill to disentangle, than it docs
PECULIARITIES OF THE PERCEPTIONS. 293
Digitized by Google
to see that a word written in black ink, may signify
whits*.
8. Second Paradox qf Vision. Single Vision.—
(t.) Small or Distant Objects.—The other difficulty, why
with two images on the retina we see only one object,
is of a much more real and important kind. This effect
is manifestly limited by certain circumstances of a very
precise nature; for if we direct our eyes at an object
which is very near the eye, we see all other objects
double. The fact is not, therefore, that we are incapable
of receiving two impressions from the two images, but
that, under certain conditions, the two impressions form
one. A little attention shows us that these conditions
are, that with both eves we should look at the same
object; and again, we find that to look at an object with
either eye, is to direct the eye so that the image falls
294 PHILOSOPHY OF SECONDARY MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
• Tho explanation of our seeing objects erect when the image is
inverted has been put very simply, by saying, “ We call that the loner
end of an object which is next the ground.*' The observer cannot look
into his own eye; he knows by experience what kind of image cor­
responds to a man in an upright position. The anatomist tells him that
this image is inverted: but this does not disturb the process of judging
by experience. It does not appear why any one should be perplexed at
the notion of seeing objects erect by means of inverted images, rather
than at the notion of seeing objects large by means of small images ; or
cubical and pyramidal, by means of images on a spherical surface; or
green and red, by means of images on a black surface. Indeed some
persons have contrived to perplex themselves with these latter questions,
as well as the first.
The above explanation is not at all affected, as to its substance, if we
adopt Sir David Brewsters expression, and say that the line o f visible
direction is a line passing through the center of the spherical surface of
the retina, and therefore of course perpendicular to the surface. In
speaking of “ the inverted image," it has always been supposed to be
determined by such lines; and though the point where they intersect
may not have been ascertained with exactness by previous physiologists,
the philosophical view of the matter was not in any degree vitiated
by this imperfection.
* •
PECULIARITIES OF THE PERCEPTIONS. 296
on or near a particular point about the middle of the
retina. Thus these middle points in the two retinas
correspond, and we see an image single when the two
images fall on the corresponding points.
Again, as each eye judges of position, and as the two
eyes judge similarly, an object will be seen in the same
place by one eye and by the other, when the two images
which it produces are similarly situated with regard to
the corresponding points of the retina*.
This is the Law of Single Vision, at least so far as
regards small objects; namely, objects so small that in
contemplating them we consider their position only, and
not their solid dimensions. Single vision in such cases
is a result of the law of vision simply: and it is a
mistake to call in, as some have done, the influence of
• Tbe explanation of single vision with two eyes may be put in
another form. Each eye judges immediately of the relative position of
all objects within the field of its direct vision. Therefore when we look
with both eyes at a distant prospect (so distant that the distance
between the eyes is small in comparison) the two prospects, being simi­
lar collections of forms, will coincide altogether, if a corresponding point
in one and in the other coincide. If this be the case, the two images
of every object will fall upon corresponding points of the retina, and
will appear single.
If the two prospects seen by the two eyes do not exactly coincide,
in consequence of nearness of the objects, or distortion of the eyes, but
if they nearly coincide, the stronger image of an object absorbs the
weaker, and the object is seen single; yet modified by the combination,
as will be seen when we speak of the single vision of near objects.
When the two images of an object are considerably apart, we see it
double.
This explanation is not different in substance from the one given in
the tex t; but perhaps it is better to avoid the assertion that the law of
corresponding points is “ a distinct and original principle of our consti­
tution,'* as I had stated in the first edition. The simpler mode of
stating the law of our constitution appears to be to say, that each eye
determines similarly the position of objects ; and that when the positions
of an object, as seen by the two eyes, coincide (or nearly coincide) the
object is seen single.
Digitized by Google
habit and of acquired judgments, in order to determine
the result in such cases.
To ascribe the apparent singleness of objects to the
impressions of vision corrected by the experience of
touch*, would be to assert that a person who had not
been in the habit of handling what he saw, would see all
objects double; and also, to assert that a person begin­
ning with the double world which vision thus offers to
him, would, by the continued habit of handling objects,
gradually and at last learn to see them single. But
all the facts of the case show such suppositions to be
utterly fantastical. No one can, in this case, go back
from the habitual judgment of the singleness of objects,
to the original and direct perception of their doubleness,
as the draughtsman goes back from judgments to per­
ception, in representing solid distances and forms by
means of perspective pictures. No one can point out
any case in which the habit is imperfectly formed; even
children of the most tender age look at an object with
both eyes, and see it as one.
In cases when the eyes are distorted (in squinting),
one eye only is used, or if both are employed, there is
double vision ; and thus any derangement of the corre­
spondence of motion in the two eyes will produce double­
sightedness.
Brown is one of those f who assert that two images
suggest a single object because we have always found
two images to belong to a single object. He urges as
an illustration, that the two words "he conquered,”
by custom excite exactly the same notion as the one
Latin word “ vicit;” and thus that two visual images,
by the effect of habit, produce the same belief of a
single object as one tactual impression. But in order
to make this pretended illustration of any value, it ought
* Set4Brown, Vol. II. p. 81. + Lectures, Vol. IK p. 81.
2 9 6 PHILOSOPHY OF SECONDARY MECHANICAL 8CIF.NCES.
Digitized by Google
PECULIARITIES OF THE PERCEPTIONS. 297
to be true that when a person has thoroughly learnt
the Latin language, he can no longer distinguish any
separate meaning in “ he” and in “ conquered.” We can
by no effort perceive the double sensation, when we
look atthe object with the two eyes. Those who squint,
learn by habit to see objects single: but the habit which
they acquire is that of attending to the impressions of
one eye only at once, not of combining the two impres­
sions. It is obvious, that if each eye spreads before us
the same visible scene, with the same objects and the
same relations of place, then, if one object in each scene
coincide, the whole of the two visible impressions will be
coincident. And here the remarkable circumstance is,
that not only each eye judges for itself of the relations
of position which come within its field of view; but that
there is a superior and more comprehensive faculty
which combines and compares the two fields of view;
which asserts or denies their coincidence; which con­
templates, as in a relative position to one another, these
two visible worlds, in which all other relative position is
given. This power of confronting two sets of visible
images and figured spaces before a purely intellectual
tribunal, is one of the most remarkable circumstances in
the sense of vision.
9. (2.) Near Objects.—We have hitherto spoken
of the singleness of objects whose images occupy corre­
sponding positions on the retina of the two eyes. But
here occurs a difficulty. If an object of moderate size, a
small thick book for example, be held at a little dis­
tance from the eyes, it produces an image on the retina
of each eye; and these two images are perspective
representations of the book from different points of view,
fthe positions of the two eyes,) aud are therefore of dif­
ferent forms. Hence the two images cannot occupy cor­
responding points of the retina throughout their whole
Digitized by Googk
298 PHILO80PHY OF SECONDARY MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
extent. If the central parts of the two images occupy
corresponding points, the boundaries of the two will
not correspond. How is it then consistent with the
law above stated, that in this case the object appears
single ?
It may be observed, that the two images in such a case
will differ most widely when the object is not a mere sur­
face, but a solid. If a book, for example, be held with
one of its upright edges towards the face, the right eye
will see one side more directly than the left eye, and
the left eye will see another side more directly, and the
outline of the two images upon the two retinas will ex­
hibit this difference. And it may be further observed,
that this difference in the images received by the two
eyes, is a plain and demonstrative evidence of the solidity
of the object seen; since nothing but a solid object
could (without some special contrivance) produce these
different forms of the images in the two eyes.
Hence the absence of exact coincidence in the two
images on the retina is the necessary condition of the
solidity of the object seen, and must be one of the indi­
cations by means of which our vision apprehends an
object as solid. And that this is so, Mr. Wheatstone
has proved experimentally, by means of some most
ingenious and striking contrivances. He has devised*
an instrument by which two images (drawn in outline)
differing exactly as much as the two images of a solid
body seen near the face would differ, are conveyed,
one to one eye, and the other to the other. And it is
found that when this is effected, the object which the
images represent is not only seen single, but is appre­
hended as solid with a clearness and reality of conviction
quite distinct from any impression which a mere per­
spective representation can give.
* Phil. Trans., 1839.
Digitized by Googk
PECULIARITIES OF THE PERCEPTIONS. 2 9 9
At the same time it is found that the object is then
only apprehended as single when the two images are
such as are capable of being excited by one single object
placed in solid space, and seen by the two eyes. If
the images differ more or otherwise than this condition
allows, the result is, that both are seen, their lines cross*
ing and interfering with one another.
It may be observed, too, that if an object be of such
large size as not to be taken in by a single glance of the
eyes, it is no longer apprehended as single by a direct
act of perception; but its parts are looked at separately
and successively, and the impressions thus obtained are
put together by a succeeding act of the mind. Hence
the objects which are directly seen as solid, will be of
moderate size; in which case it is not difficult to show
that the outlines of the two images will differ from each
other only slightly.
Hence we are led to the following, as the Law of
Single Vision for nearobjects:— When the two im
in the two eyes are situated (part for part) nearly, but
not exactly, upon corresponding pointe, the object is ap­
prehended as single, if the two images are such as are
or would be given by a single solid object seen by the
two eyes separately: and in this case the object is neces­
sarily apprehended as solid.
This law of vision does not contradict that stated
above for distant objects: for when an object is removed
to a considerable distance, the images in the two eyes
coincide exactly, and the object is seen as single, though
without any direct apprehension of its solidity. The
first law is a special case of the second. Under the con­
dition of exactly corresponding points, we,have the per­
ception of singleness, but no evidence of solidity. Under
the condition of nearly corresponding points, we may
have the perception of singleness, and with it, of solidity.
Digitized by Googk
We have before noted it as an important feature in
our visual perception, that while, we have two distinct
impressions upon the sense, which we can contemplate
separately and alternately, (the impressions on the two
eyes,) we have a higher perceptive faculty which can
recognize these two impressions, exactly similar to each
other, as only two images of one and the same assem­
blage of objects. But we now see that the faculty by
which we perceive visible objects can do much more
than this:—it can not only unite two impressions, and
recognize them as belonging to one object in virtue of
their coincidence, but it can also unite and identify them,
even when they do not exactly coincide. It can correct
and adjust their small difference, so that they are both
apprehended as representations of the same figure. It
can infer from them a real form, not agreeing with
either of them ; and a solid space, which they are quite
incapable of exemplifying. The visual faculty decides
whether or not the two ocular images can be pictures of
the same solid object, and if they can, it undoubtingly
and necessarily accepts them as being so. This faculty
operates as if it had the power of calling before it all
possible solid figures, and of ascertaining by trial whether
any of those will, at the same time, fit both the outlines
which are given by the sense. It assumes the reality
of solid space, and, if it be possible, reconciles the appear­
ances with that reality. And thus an activity of the
mind of a very remarkable and peculiar kind is exer­
cised in the most common act of seeing.
10. It may be said that this doctrine, of such a visual
faculty as has been described, is very vague and obscure,
since we are not told what are its limits. It adjusts and
corrects figures which nearly coincide, so as to identify
them. But how nearly, it may be asked, must the
figures approach each other, in order that this adjust­
300 PHILOSOPHY OF SECONDARY MECHANICAL 8CIENCES.
Digitized by Googk
ment may be possible ? What discrepance renders im­
possible the reconcilement of which we speak? Is it
not impossible to give a definite answer to these ques­
tions, and therefore impossible to lay down definitely
such laws of vision as we have stated ? To this I reply,
that the indefiniteness thus objected to us, is no new
difficulty, but one with which philosophers are familiar,
and to which they are already reconciled. It is, in fact,
no other than the indefiniteness of the limits of distinct
vision. How near to the face must an object be brought,
so that we shall cease to see it distinctly ? The distance,
it will be answered, is indefinite: it is different for
different persons; and for the same person, it varies
with the degree of effort, attention, and habit. But this
indefiniteness is only the indefiniteness, in another form,
o f the deviation of the two ocular images from one
another: and in reply to the question concerning them
we must still say, as before, that in doubtful cases, the
power of apprehending an object as single, when this
can be done, will vary with effort, attention, and habit.
The assumption that the apparent object exists as a real
figure, in real space, is to be verified, if possible; but,
in extreme cases, from the unfitness of the point of view,
or from any other cause of visual confusion or deception,
the existence of a real object corresponding to the ap­
pearance may be doubtful; as in any other kind of per­
ception it may be doubtful whether our senses, under
disadvantageous circumstances, give us true information.
The vagueness of the limits, then, within which this
visual faculty can be successfully exercised, is no valid
argument against the existence of the faculty, or the
truth of the law which we have stated concerning its
action.
PECULIARITIES OF THE PERCEPTIONS. 3 0 1
Digitized by Google
302 PHILOSOPHY OF SECONDARY MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
Sect. IV.— The Perception of Visible Figure.
11. Visible Figure.—There is one tenet on the
subject of vision which appears to me so extravagant
and unphilosophical, that I should not have thought it
necessary to notice it, if it had not been recently pro­
mulgated by a writer of great acuteness in a book which
has obtained, for a metaphysical work, considerable cir­
culation. I speak of Brown’s opinion* that we have no
immediate perception of visible figure. I confess myself
unable to comprehend fully the doctrine which he would
substitute in the place of the one commonly received.
He states it thus f: “ When the simple affection of sight
is blended with the ideas of suggestion [those arising
from touch, &c.] in what are termed the acquired per­
ceptions of vision, as, for example, in the perception of
a sphere, it is colour only which is blended with the
large convexity, and not a small coloured plane.” The
doctrine which Brown asserts in this and similar pas­
sages, appears to be, that we do not by vision perceive
both colour and figure ; but that the colour which we see
is blended with the figure which we learn the existence
of by other means, as by touch. But if this were pos­
sible when we can call in other perceptions, how is it
possible when we cannot or do not touch the object?
Why does the moon appear round, gibbous, or horned ?
What sense besides vision suggests to us the idea of her
figure ? And even in objects which we can reach, what
is that circumstance in the sense of vision which suggests
to us that the colour belongs to the sphere, except that
we see the colour where we see the sphere ? If we do
not see figure, we do not see position ; for figure is the
relative position of the parts of a boundary. If we do
not see position, why do we ascribe the yellow colour to
* Lectures, Vol. n. p.82. + //>. Vol. n. p. 90.
Digitized by Googk
PECULIARITIES OF THE PERCEPTIONS. 303
the sphere on our left, rather than to the cube on our
right? We associate the colour with the object, says
Dr. Brown ; but if his opinion were true, we could not
associate two colours with two objects, for we could
not apprehend the colours as occupying two different
places.
The whole of Brown’s reasoning on this subject is so
irreconcileable with the first facts of vision, that it is
difficult to conceive how it could proceed from a person
who has reasoned with great acuteness concerning touch.
In order to prove his assertion, he undertakes to ex­
amine the only reasons which, he says*, he can imagine
for believing the immediate perception of visible figure :
(1) That it is absolutely impossible, in our present sen­
sations of sight, to separate colour from extension; and
(2) That there are, in fact, figures on the retina corre­
sponding to the apparent figures of objects.
On the subject of the first reason, he says, that the
figure which we perceive as associated with colour, is the
real, and not the apparent figure. “ Is there,” he asks,
“ the slightest consciousness of a perception of visible
figure, corresponding to the affected portion of the
retina ?” To which, though he seems to think an affir­
mative answer impossible, we cannot hesitate to reply,
that there is undoubtedly such a consciousness; that
though obscured by being made the ground of habitual
inference as to the real figure, this consciousness is con­
stantly referred to by the draughtsman, and easily re­
called by any one. We may separate colour, he says
again f, from the figures on the retina, as we may sepa­
rate it from length, breadth, and thickness, which we do
not see. But this is altogether false: we cannot separate
colour from length, breadth, and thickness, in any other
way, than by transferring it to the visible figure which
• Lectures, VoL n. p. 83. t lb. p. H4.
Digitized by Googk
304 PHILOSOPHY OF SECONDARY MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
we do see. He cannot, he allows, separate the colour
from the visible form of the trunk of a large oak; but
just as little, he thinks, can he separate it from the con­
vex mass of the trunk, which (it is allowed on all hands)
he does not immediately see. But in this he is mis­
taken : for if he were to make a picture of the oak, he
would separate the colour from the convex shape, which
he does not imitate, but he could not separate it from
the visible figure, which he does imitate; and he would
then perceive that the fact that he has not an imme-1
diate perception of the convex form, is necessarily con­
nected with the fact that he has an immediate percep­
tion of the apparent figure; so far is the rejection of
immediate perception in the former case from being a
reason for rejecting it in the latter.
Again, with regard to the second argument. It does
not, he says, follow, that because a certain figured por­
tion of the retina is affected by light, we should see such
a figure; for if a certain figured portion of the olfactory
organ were affected by odours, we should not acquire by
smell any perception of such figure *. This is merely to
say, that because we do not perceive position and figure
by one sense, we cannot do so by another. But this
again is altogether erroneous. It is an office of our
sight to inform us of position, and consequently of
figure; for this purpose, the organ is so constructed
that the position of the object determines the position
of the point of the retina affected. There is nothing of
this kind in the organ of smell; objects in different posi­
tions and of different forms do not affect different parts
of the olfactory nerve, or portions of different Shape.
Different objects, remote from each other, if perceived
by smell, affect the same part of the olfactory organs.
This is all quite intelligible; for it is not the office of
* Lectures, Vol. u. p. M
J*
Digitized by Google
PECULIARITIES OF THE PERCEPTIONS. 305
smell to inform us of position. Of what use or meaning
would be the curious and complex structure of the eye,
if it gave us only such vague and wandering notions of
the colours and forms of the flowers in a garden, as we
receive from their odours when we walk among them
blindfold? It is, as we have said, the prerogative of
vision to apprehend position: the places of objects on
the retina give this information. We do not suppose
that the affection of a certain shape of nervous expanse
will necessarily and in all cases give us the impression
o f figure; but we know that in vision it does; and it is
clear that if we did not acquire our acquaintance with
visible figure in this way, we could not acquire it in
any way*.
The whole of this strange mistake of Brown’s appears
to arise from the fault already noticed;—that of consi­
dering the image on the retina as the object instead of
the means of vision. This indeed is what he says: “the
true object of vision is not the distant body itself, but
the light that has reached the expansive termination of
the optic nervef.” Even if this were so, we do not see
why we should not perceive the position of the impres­
sion on this expanded nerve. But as we have already
said, the impression on the nerve is the means of vision,
and enables us to assign a place, or at least a direction,
to the object from which the light proceeds, and thus
makes vision possible. Brown, indeed, pursues his own
peculiar view till he involves the subject in utter confu­
sion. Thus he saysJ, “ According to the common theory
* When Brown says further (p. 87,) that we can indeed show the
image in the dissected eye; but that “ it is not in the dissected eye
that vision takes p l a c e i t is difficult to see what his drift is. Does
be doubt that there is an image formed in the living as completely as
in the dissected eye ?
• L
e
c
t
u
r
e
s
, Vol.il. p. 57- + /&., Vol. II. p. 89.
VOL. L W. P. X
Digitized by Googk
[that figure can be perceived by the eye,] a visible
sphere is at once to my perception convex and plane;
and if the sphere be a large one, it is perceived at once
to be a sphere of many feet in diameter, and a plane
circular surface of the diameter of a quarter of an inch.”
It is easy to deduce these and greater absurdities, if we
proceed on his strange and baseless supposition that the
object and the image on the retina are perceived.
But who is conscious of the image on the retina in any
other way than as he sees the object by means of it ?
Brown seems to have imagined that he was ana­
lyzing the perception of figure in the same manner in
which Berkeley had analyzed the perception of distance.
He ought to have recollected that such an undertaking,
to be successful, required him to show what elements he
analyzed it into. Berkeley analyzed the perception of
real figure into the interpretation of visible figure accord­
ing to certain rules which he distinctly stated. Brown
analyzes the perception of visible figure into no ele­
ments. Berkeley says, that we do not directly perceive
distance, but that we perceive something else, from
which we infer distance, namely, visible figure and colour,
and our own efforts in seeing; Brown says, that we do
not see figure, but infer it ; what then do we see, which
we infer it from ? To this he offers no answer. He
asserts the seeming perception of visible figure to be a
result of “ association ;”—of “ suggestion.” But what
meaning can we attach to this? Suggestion requires
something which suggests ; and not a hint is given what
it is which suggests position. Association implies two
things associated ; what is the sensation which we asso­
ciate with form ? What is that visual perception which
is not figure, and which we mistake for figure? What
perception is it that suggests a square to the eye ? What
impressions are those which have been associated with
306 PHILOSPHV OF SECONDARY MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
Digitized by Googk
PECULIARITIES OF THE PERCEPTIONS. 307
a visible triangle, so that the revival of the impressions
revives the notion of the triangle ? Brown has nowhere
pointed out such perceptions and impressions; nor indeed
was it possible for him to do so; for the only visual
perceptions which he allows to remain, those of colour,
most assuredly do not suggest visible figures by their
differences; red is not associated with square rather than
with round, or with round rather than square. On the
contrary, the eye, constructed in a very complex and
wonderful manner in order that it may give to us directly
the perception of position as well as of colour, has it for
one of its prerogatives to give us this information ; and
the perception of the relative position of each part of
the visible boundary of an object constitutes the percep­
tion of its apparent figure; which faculty we cannot
deny to the eye without rejecting the plain and constant
evidence of our senses, making the mechanism of the
eye unmeaning, confounding the object with the means
of vision, and rendering the mental process of vision
utterly unintelligible.
Having sufficiently discussed the processes of per­
ception, I now return to the consideration of the Ideas
which these processes assume.
C h a p t e r III.
SUCCESSIVE ATTEM PTS AT T H E SCIEN TIFIC
A PPLICA TIO N OF T H E ID EA OF A
MEDIUM.
1. In what precedes, we have shown by various con­
siderations that we necessarily and universally assume
the perception of secondary qualities to take place by
means of a medium inteijacent between the object and
the person perceiving. Perception is affected by various
X 2
Digitized by Google
peculiarities, according to the nature of the quality per­
ceived : but in all cases a medium is equally essential to
the process.
This principle, which, as we have seen, is accepted as
evident by the common understanding of mankind, is
confirmed by all additional reflection and discipline of
the mind, and is the foundation of all the theories which
have been proposed concerning the processes by which
the perception takes place, and concerning the modifi­
cations of the qualities thus perceived. The medium, and
the mode in which the impression is conveyed through
the medium, seem to be different for different qualities;
but the existence of the medium leads to certain neces­
sary conditions or alternatives, which have successively
made their appearance ip science, in the course of the
attempts of men to theorize concerning the principal
secondary qualities, sound, light, and heat. We must
now point out some of the ways, at first imperfect and
erroneous, in which the consequences of the fundamental
assumption were traced.
2. Sound.— In all cases the medium of sensation,
whatever it is, is supposed to produce the effect of con­
veying secondary qualities to our perception by means
of its primary qualities. It was conceived to operate by
the size, form, and motion of its parts. This is a funda­
mental principle of the class of sciences of which we
have at present to speak.
It was assumed from the first, as we have seen in the
passage lately quoted from Aristotle*, that in the con­
veyance of sound, the medium of communication was
the air. But although the first theorists were right
so far, that circumstance did not prevent their going
entirely wrong when they had further to determine the
nature of the process. It was conceived by Aristotle
* S u p r.,p. 202.
308 PHILOSOPHY OF SBCONUAUY MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
Digitized by Googk
that the air acted after the manner of a rigid body;—•
like a staf? which, receiving an impulse at one end, trans­
mits it to the other. Now this is altogether an erro­
neous view of the manner in which the air conveys the
impulse by which sound is perceived. An approach was
made to the true view of this process, by assimilating it
to the diffusion of the little circular waves which are
produced on the surface of still water when a stone is
dropt into it. These little waves begin from the point
thus disturbed, and run outwards, expanding on every
side, in concentric circles, till they are lost. The propa­
gation of sound through the air from the point where it
is produced, was compared by Vitruvius to this diffu­
sion of circular waves in water; and thus the notion of
a propagation of impulse by the waves of a fluid was
introduced, in the place of the former notion of the
impulse of an unyielding body.
But though, taking an enlarged view of the nature
of the progress of a wave, this is a just representation
of the motion of air in conveying sound, we cannot sup­
pose that the process was, at the period of which we
speak, rightly understood. For the waves of water were
contemplated only as affecting the surface of the water;
and as the air has no surface, the communication must
take place by means of an internal motion, which can
bear only a remote and obscure resemblance to the waves
which we see. And even with regard to the waves of
water, the mechanism by which they are produced and
transferred was not at all understood; so that the com­
parison employed by Vitruvius must be considered rather
as a loose analogy than as an exact scientific explanation.
No correct account of such motions was given, till
the formation of the science of Mechanics in modern
times had enabled philosophers to understand more dis­
tinctly the mode in which motion is propagated through
SCIENTIFIC APPLICATION OF TIIE IDEA OF A MEDIUM. 30.0
Digitized by Googk
a fluid, and to discern the forces which the process calls
into play, so as to continue the motion once begun.
Newton introduced into this subject the exact and rigor­
ous conception of an undulation, which is the true key to
the explanation of impulses conveyed through a fluid.
Even at the present day, the right apprehension of
the nature of an undulation transmitted through a fluid
is found to be very difficult for all persons except those
whose minds have been duly disciplined by mathematical
studies. When we see a wave run along the surface of
water, we are apt to imagine at first that a portion of
the fluid is transferred bodily from one place to another.
But with a little consideration we may easily satisfy
ourselves that this is not so: for if we look at a field of
standing corn, when a breeze blows over it, we see waves
like those of water run along its surface. Yet it is clear
that in this case the separate stalks of corn only bend
backwards and forwards, and no portion of the grain is
really conveyed from one part of the field to the other.
This is obvious even to popular apprehension. The poet
speaks of
. , . . The rye,
That etoopa its head when whirlwinds rave
And springs again in eddying wave
As each wild gust sweeps by.
Each particle of the mass in succession has a small
motion backwards and forwards; and by this means a
large ridge made by many such particles runs along the
mass to any distance. This is the true conception of
an undulation in general.
Thus, when an undulation is propagated in a fluid,
it is not matter, butform, which is transmitted from one
place to another. The particles along the line of each
wave assume a certain arrangement, and this arrange­
ment passes from one part to another, the particles
310 PHILOSOPHY OF SECONDARY MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
Digitized by Googk
changing their places only within narrow limits, so as to
lend themselves successively to the arrangements by
which the successive waves, and the intervals between
the waves, are formed.
When such an undulation is propagated through
air, the wave is composed, not, as in water, of particles
which are higher than the rest, but of particles which
are closer to each other than the rest. The wave is not
a ridge of elevation, but a line of condensation; and as
in water we have alternately elevated and depressed
lines, we have in air lines alternately condensed and
rarefied. And the motion of the particles is not, as in
water, up and down, in a direction transverse to that of
the wave which runs forwards; in the motion of an
undulation through air the motion of each particle is
alternately forwards aud backwards, while the motion
of the undulation is constantly forwards.
This precise and detailed account of the undulatory
motion of air by which sound is transmitted was first
given by Newton. He further attempted to determine
the motions of the separate particles, and to point out
the force by which each particle affects the next, so as
to continue the progress of the undulation once begun.
The motions of each particle must be oscillatory; he
assumed the oscillations to be governed by the simplest
law of oscillation which had come under the notice of
mathematicians, (that of small vibrations of a pendulum;)
and he proved that in this manner the forces which are
called into play by the contraction and expansion of the
parts of the elastic fluid are such as the continuance of
the motion requires.
Newton’s proof of the exact law of oscillatory motion
of the aerial particles was not considered satisfactory by
succeeding mathematicians; for it was found that the
same result, the development of forces adequate to con­
SCIENTIFIC APPLICATION OF THE IDEA OF A MEDIUM. 311
Digitized by Googk
tinue the motion, would follow if any other law of the
motion were assumed. Cramer proved this by a sort of
parody of Newton’s proof, in which, by the alteration of
a few phrases in this formula of demonstration, it was
made to establish an entirely different conclusion.
But the general conception of an undulation as pre­
sented by Newton was, as from its manifest mechanical
truth it could not fail to be, accepted by all mathemati­
cians; and in proportion as the methods of calculating
the motions of fluids were further improved, the neces­
sary consequences of this conception, in the communica­
tion of sound through air, were traced by unexceptionable
reasoning. This was especially done by Euler and
Lagrange, whose memoirs on such motions of fluids are
some of the most admirable examples which exist, of
refined mathematical methods applied to the solution of
difficult mechanical problems.
But the great step in the formation of the theory of
sound was undoubtedly that which we have noticed, the
introduction of the Conception of an Undulation such as
we have attempted to describe it:—a state, condition, or
arrangement of the particles of a fluid, which is trans­
ferred from one part of space to another by means of
small motions of the particles, altogether distinct from
the movement of the undulation itself. This is a con­
ception which is not obvious to common apprehension.
It appears paradoxical at first sight to speak of a large
wave (as the tide-wave) running up a river at the rate of
twenty miles an hour, while the stream of the river is
all the while flowing downwards. Yet this is a very
common fact. And the conception of such a motion
must be fully mastered by all who would reason rightly
concerning the transmission of impressions through a
medium.
We have described the motion of sound as produced
312 PHILOSOPHY OF SECONDARY MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
Digitized by Google
SCIENTIFIC APPLICATION OF THE IDEA OF A MEDIUM. 313
by small motions of the particle forwards and backwards,
while the waves, or condensed and rarefied lines, move
constantly forwards. It may be asked what right we
have to suppose the -motion to be of this kind, sinco
when sound is heard, no such motions of the particles of
air can be observed, even by refined methods of observa­
tion. Thus Bacon declares himself against the hypothesis
of such a vibration, since, as he remarks, it cannot be
perceived in any visible impression upon the flame of a
candle. And to this we reply, that the supposition of
this vibration is made in virtue of a principle which
is involved in the original assumption of a medium;
namely, That a medium, in conveying secondary quali­
ties, opei'ates ly means ofits prim ary
bulk, figure, motion, and other mechanical properties of
its parts. This is an Axiom belonging to the Idea of a
Medium. In virtue of this axiom it is demonstrable that
the motion of the air, when any how disturbed, must be
such as is supposed in our acoustical reasonings. For
the elasticity of the parts of the air, called into play by
its expansion and contraction, lead, by a mechanical
necessity, to such a motion as we have described. We
may add that, by proper contrivances, this motion may
be made perceptible in its visible effects. Thus the
theory of sound, as an impression conveyed through air,
is established upon evident general principles, although
the mathematical calculations which are requisite to
investigate its consequences are, some of them, of a very
recondite kind.
3. Light.—The early attempts to explain vision
represented it as performed by means of material rays
proceeding from the eye, by the help of which the eye
felt out the form and other visible qualities of an object,
as a blind man might do with his staff. But this opi­
nion could not keep its ground long: for it did not even
Digitized by Googk
314 PHILOSOPHY OF SECONDARY MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
explain the fact that light is necessary to vision. Light as
a peculiar medium was next assumed as the machinery
of vision; but the mode in which the impression was
conveyed through the medium was left undetermined,
and no advance was made towards sound theory, on that
subject, by the ancients.
In modern times, when the prevalent philosophy
began to assume a mechanical turn (as in the theories
of Descartes), light was conceived to be a material sub­
stance which is emitted from luminous bodies, and which
is also conveyed from all bodies to the eye, so as to
render them visible. The various changes of direction
by which the rays of light are affected, (reflexion, refrac­
tion, &c.,) Descartes explained, by considering the par­
ticles of light as small globules, which change their
direction when they impinge upon other bodies, accord­
ing to the laws of mechanics. Newton, with a much
more profound knowledge of mechanics than Descartes
possessed, adopted, in the most mature of his specula­
tions, nearly the same view of the nature of light; and
endeavoured to show that reflexion, refraction, and other
properties of light, might be explained as the effects
which certain forces, emanating from the particles of
bodies, produce upon the luminiferous globules.
But though some of the properties of light could thus
be accounted for by the assumption of particles emitted
from luminous bodies, and reflected or refracted by forces,
other properties came into view which would not admit
of the same explanation. The phenomena of diffraction
(the fringes which accompany shadows) could never be
truly represented by such an hypothesis, in spite of many
attempts which were made. And the colours of thin
plates, which show the rays of light to be affected by an
alternation of two different conditions at small intervals
along their length, led Newton himself to incline, often
Digitized by Google
SCIENTIFIC APPLICATION OF THE IDEA OP A MEDIUM. 3 1 5
and strongly, to some hypothesis of undulation. The
double refraction of Iceland spar, a phenomenon in itself
very complex, could, it was found by Huyghens, be
expressed with great simplicity by a certain hypothesis
o f undulations.
Two hypotheses of the nature of the luminiferous
medium were thus brought under consideration; the one
representing Light as Matter emitted from the luminous
object, the other, as Undulations propagated through a
fluid. These two hypotheses remained in presence of
each other during the whole of the last century, neither
of them gaining any material advantage over the other,
though the greater part of mathematicians, following
Newton, embraced the emission theory. But at the
beginning of the present century, an additional class of
phenomena, those of the interference of two rays of
light, were brought under consideration by Dr. Young;
and these phenomena were strongly in favour of the
undulatory theory, while they were irreconcilable with
the hypothesis of emission. If it had not been for the
original bias of Newton and his school to the other side,
there can be little doubt that from this period light as
well as sound would have been supposed to be pro­
pagated by undulations; although in this case it was
necessary to assume as the vehicle of such undulations
a special medium or ether. Several points of the phe­
nomena of vision no doubt remained unexplained by the
undulatory theory, as absorption, and the natural colours
of bodies; but such facts, though they did not confirm,
did not evidently contradict the theory of a luminiferous
ether; and the facts which such a theory did explain, it
explained with singular happiness and accuracy.
But before this undulatory theory could be generally
accepted, it was presented in an entirely new point of
view bv being combined with the facts of
Digitized by Google
The general idea of polarization must be illustrated here*
after; but we may here remark that Young and Fresnel,
who had adopted the undulatory theory, after being
embarrassed for some time by the new facts which were
thus presented to their notice, at last saw that these
facts might be explained by conceiving the vibrations to
be transverse to the ray, the motions of the particles
being not backwards and forwards in the line in which
the impulse travels, but to the right and left of that
line. This conception of transverse vibrations, though
quite unforeseen, had nothing in it which was at all diffi­
cult to reconcile with the general notion of an undula­
tion. We have described an undulation, or wave, as a
certain condition or arrangement of the particles of the
fluid successively transferred from one part of space to
another: and it is easily conceivable that this arrange­
ment or wave may be produced by a lateral transfer of
the particles from their quiescent positions. This con­
ception of transverse vibrations being accepted, it was
found that the explanation of the phenomena of polari­
zation and of those of interference led to the same
theory with a correspondence truly wonderful; and this
coincidence in the views, collected from two quite dis­
tinct classes of phenomena, was justly considered as an
almost demonstrative evidence of the truth of this undu­
latory theory.
It remained to be considered whether the doctrine
of transverse vibrations in a fluid could be reconciled
with the principles of mechanics. And it was found
that by making certain suppositions, in which no in­
herent improbability existed, the hypothesis of trans­
verse vibrations would explain the laws, both of inter­
ference and of polarization of light, in air and in crystals
of all kinds, with a surprizing fertility and fidelity.
Thus the undulatory theory of light, like the undu-
3 1 G PHILOSOPHY OF SECONDARY MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
Digitized by Googk
latory theory of sound, is recommended by its conformity
to the fundamental principle of the Secondary Mecha­
nical Sciences, that the medium must be supposed to
transmit its peculiar impulses according to the laws of
mechanics. Although no one had previously dreamt of
qualities being conveyed through a medium by such a
process, yet when it is once suggested as the only mode
of explaining some of the phenomena, there is nothing
to prevent our accepting it entirely, as a satisfactory
theory for all the known laws of light.
4. Heat.— With regard to heat as with regard to
light, a fluid medium was necessarily assumed as the
vehicle of the property. During the last century, this
medium was supposed to be an emitted fluid. And
many of the ascertained Laws of Heat, those which
prevail with regard to its radiation more especially, were
well explained by this hypothesis*. Other effects of
heat, however, as for instance latent heat t, and the
change of consistence of bodies|, were not satisfactorily
brought into connexion with the hypothesis ; while
duction \
f, which at first did not appear to result from
the fundamental assumption, was to a certain extent
explained as internal radiation.
But it was by no means clear that an undulatory
theory of heat might not be made to explain these
phenomena equally well. Several philosophers inclined
to such a theory ; and finally, Ampère showed that the
doctrine that the heat of a body consists in the undula­
tions of its particles propagated by means of the undula­
tions of a medium, might be so adjusted as to explain all
which the theory of emission could explain, and more­
over to account for facts and laws which were out of
# 8ee the Accountof theTheory of Exchanges, Hist,Ind. Sci.y
B. x. c. i. sect. 2. + /&., c. ii. sect. 3.
X /¿N c. ii. sect 2. § Ib.t c. i. sect. 7-
SCIENTIFIC APPLICATION OF THE IDEA OF A MEDIUM. 3 1 7
Digitized by Google
the reach of that theory. About the same time it was
discovered by Prof. Forbes and M. Nobili that radiant
heat is, under certain circumstances, polarized. Now
polarization had been most satisfactorily explained by
means of transverse undulations in the case of light;
while all attempts to modify the emission theory so as to
include polarization in it, had been found ineffectual.
Hence this discovery was justly considered as lending
great countenance to the opinion that heat consists in
the vibrations of its proper medium.
But what is this medium ? Is it the same by which
the impressions of light are conveyed ? This is a difficult
question; or rather it is one which we cannot at present
hope to answer with certainty. No doubt the con­
nexion between light and heat is so intimate and con­
stant, that we can hardly refrain from considering them
as affections of the same medium. But instead of
attempting to. erect our systems on such loose and
general views of connexion, it is rather the business of
the philosophers of the present day to determine the
laws of the operation of heat, and its real relation to
light, in order that we may afterwards be able to con­
nect the theories of the two qualities. Perhaps in a
more advanced state of our knowledge we may be able
to state it as an axiom, that two secondary qualities,
which are intimately connected in their causes and
effects, must be affections of the same medium. But at
present it does not appear safe to proceed upon such a
principle, although many writers, in their speculations
both concerning light and heat, and concerning other
properties, have not hesitated to do so.
Some other consequences follow from the Idea of a
Medium which must be the subject of another chapter.
318 PHILOSOPHY OK SECONDARY MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
Digitized by Google
311)
Chapter IV.
O F T H E M EASURE OF SECONDARY Q U A LITIES.
Sect. I.—Scales of Qualities in general.
T he ultimate object of our investigation in each of the
Secondary Mechanical Sciences, is the nature of the pro­
cesses by which the special impressions of sound, light,
and heat, are conveyed, and the modifications of which
these processes are susceptible. And of this investiga­
tion, as we have seen, the necessary basis is the principle,
that these impressions are transmitted by means of a
medium. But before we arrive at this ultimate object,
we may find it necessary to occupy ourselves with seve­
ral intermediate objects: before we discover the ,
it may be necessary to determine the laws of the phe­
nomena. Even if- we cannot immediately ascertain the
mechanism of light or heat, it may still be interesting
and important to arrange and measure the effects which
we observe.
The idea of a medium affects our proceeding in this
research also. We cannot measure secondary qualities
in the same manner in which we measure primary quali­
ties, by a mere addition of parts. There is this leading
and remarkable difference, that while both classes of
qualities are susceptible of changes of magnitude, primary
qualities increase by addition of extension, secondary, by
augmentation of intensity. A space is doubled when
another equal space is placed by its side; one weight
joined to another makes up the sum of the two. But
when one degree of warmth is combined with another,
or one shade of red colour with another, we cannot in
like manner talk of the sum. The component parts do
not evidently retain their separate existence ; we cannot
Digitized by Googk
320 PHILOSOPHY OF SECONDARY MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
separate a strong green colour into two weaker ones, as
we can separate a large force into two smaller. The
increase is absorbed into the previous amount, and is no
longer in evidence as a part of the whole. And this is
the difference which has given birth to the two words
extended, and intense. That is extended which has
“ partes extra partes,” parts outside of parts: that is
intense which becomes stronger by some indirect and
unapparent increase of agency, like the stretching of the
internal springs of a machine, as the term intense im­
plies. Extended magnitudes can at will be resolved
into the parts of which they were originally composed,
or any other which the nature of their extension admits;
their proportion is apparent; they are directly and at
once subject to the relations of number. Intensive
magnitudes cannot be resolved into smaller magnitudes;
we caii see that they differ, but we cannot tell in what
proportion; we have no direct measure of their quan­
tity. How many times hotter than blood is boiling
water ? The answer cannot be given by the aid of our
feelings of heat alone.
The difference, as we have said, is connected with
the fundamental principle that we do nbt perceive
secondary qualities directly, but through a medium. We
have no natural apprehension of light, or sound, or heat,
as they exist in the bodies from which they proceed, but
only as they affect our organs. We can only measure
them, therefore, by some Scale supplied by their effects.
And thus while extended magnitudes, as space, time, are
measurable directly and of themselves; intensive mag­
nitudes, as brightness, loudness, heat, are measurable
only by artificial means and conventional scales. Space,
time, measure themselves: the repetition of a smaller
space, or time, while it composes a larger one, measures
it. But for light and heat we must have Photometers
Digitized by Googk
MEASURE OF SECONDARY QUALITIES. 321
a n d Thermometers, which measure something which is
assum ed to be an indication of the quality in question.
I n one case, the mode of applying the measure, and
th e meaning of the number resulting, are seen by intui­
tio n ; in the other, they are consequences of assumption
an d reasoning. In the one case, they are Units, of
w hich the extension is made up; in the other, they are
D egrees by which the intensity ascends.
2. When we discover any property in a sensible
quality, which at once refers us to number or space, we
readily take this property as a measure; and thus we
make a transition from quality to quantity. Thus Pto­
lem y in the third chapter of the First Book of his Har­
monics begins thus: “ As to the differences which exist
in sounds both in quality and in quantity, if we consider
that difference which refers to the acuteness and grave­
ness, we cannot at once tell to which of the above two
classes it belongs, till we have considered the causes of
such symptoms.” But at the end of the chapter, having
satisfied himself that grave sounds result from the mag­
nitude of the string or pipe, other things being equal,
he infers, “ Thus the difference of acute and grave ap­
pears to be a difference of q
u.
”
In the same manner, in order to form Secondary
Mechanical Sciences respecting any of the other pro­
perties of bodies, we must reduce these properties to a
dependence upon quantity, and thus make them subject
to measurement. We cannot obtain any sciential truths
respecting the comparison of sensible qualities, till we
have discovered measures and scales of the qualities
which we have to consider; and accordingly, some of
the most important steps in such sciences have been the
establishment of such measures and scales, and the inven­
tion of the requisite instruments.
The formation of the mathematical sciences which
VOL. i. w . p. Y
Digitized by Google
rest upon the measures of the intensity of sensible qua­
lities took place mainly in the course of the last century.
Perhaps we may consider Lambert, a mathematician
who resided in Switzerland, and published about 1750,
as the person who first clearly felt the importance of
establishing such sciences. His Photometry, Pyrometry,
Hygrometry, are examples of the systematic reduction
of sensible qualities (light, heat, moisture) to modes of
numerical measurement.
We now proceed to speak of such modes of measure­
ment with regard to the most obvious properties of
bodies.
322 PHILOSOPHY OF SECONDARY MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
Sect. II.— The Musical Scale.
3. The establishment of the Harmonic , that
is, of a Scale and Measure of the musical place of notes,
in the relation of high and l,was
science of Harmonics. The perception of the differences
and relations of musical sounds is the office of the sense
of hearing; but these relations are fixed, and rendered
accurately recognizable by artificial means. “ Indeed,
in all the senses,” as Ptolemy truly says in the opening
of his Harmonics, “ the sense discovers what is approxi­
mately true, and receives accuracy from another quarter:
the reason receives the approximately-true from another
quarter, and discovers the accurate truth.” We can
have no measures of sensible qualities which do not
ultimately refer to the sense;—whether they do this
immediately, as when we refer Colours to an assumed
Standard; or mediately, as when we measure Heat by
Expansion, having previously found by an appeal to
sense that the expansion increases with the heat. Such
relations of sensible qualities cannot be described in
words, and can only be apprehended by their appropriate
faculty. The faculty by which the relations of sounds
Digitized by Google
are apprehended is a musical ear in the largest accep­
tation of the term. In this signification the faculty is
nearly universal among men; for all persons have musical
ears sufficiently delicate to understand and to imitate
the modulations corresponding to various emotions in
speaking; which modulations depend upon the succes­
sion of acuter and graver tones. These are the relations
now spoken of, and these are plainly perceived by per­
sons who have very imperfect musical ears, according to
the common use of the phrase. But the relations of
tones which occur in speaking are somewhat indefinite;
and in forming that musical scale which is the basis of
our science upon the subject, we take the most definite
and marked of such relations of notes; such as occur,
not in speaking but in singing. Those musical relations
of two sounds which we call the octave, the fifth, the
fourth, the third, are recognized after a short familiarity
with them. These chords or intervals are perceived to
have each a peculiar character, which separates them
from the relations of two sounds taken at random, and
makes it easy to know them when sung or played on
an instrument; and for most persons, not difficult to
sing the sounds in succession exactly, or nearly correct.
These musical relations, or concords, then, are the ground­
work of our musical standard. But how are we to name
these indescribable sensible characters? how to refer,
with unerring accuracy, to a type which exists only in
our own perceptions? We must have for this purpose
a Scale and a Standard.
The Musical Scale is a series of eight notes, ascend­
ing by certain steps from the first or key-note to the
octave above it, each of the notes being fixed by such
distinguishable musical relations as we have spoken of
above. We may call these notes c, d, e, f, g, a, b, ;
and we may then say that g is determined by its being a
Y 2
MEASURE OF SECONDARY QUALITIES. 323
Digitized by Googk
324 PHILOSOPHY OF SECONDARY MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
fifth above c ; D by its being a fourth below G ; E by its
being a third above c; and similarly of the rest. It
will be recollected that the terms a fifth, a fourth, a
third, have hitherto been introduced as expressing cer­
tain simple and indescribable musical relations among
sounds, which might have been indicated by any other
names. Thus we might call the fifth the dominant, and
the fourth the subdominant, as is done in one part of
musical science. But the names we have used, which
are the common ones, are in fact derived from the num­
ber of notes which these intervals include in the scale
obtained in the above manner. The notes c, d , e , f , g,
being five, the interval from c to G is a fifth, and so of
the rest. The fixation of this scale gave the means of
describing exactly any note which occurs in the scale,
and the method is easily applicable to notes above and
below this range; for in a series of sounds higher or
lower by an octave than this standard series, the ear
discovers a recurrence of the same relations so exact,
that a person may sometimes imagine he is producing
the same notes as another when he is singing the same
air an octave higher. Hence the next eight notes may
be conveniently denoted by a repetition of the same
letters, as the first; thus, c, d , e , f , g, a , b , c, d, e,f, ,
a, b ; and it is easy to devise a continuation of such
cycles. And other admissible notes are designated by a
further modification of the standard ones, as by making
each note fiat or sharp; which modification it is not
necessary here to consider, since our object is only to
show how a standard is attainable, and how it serves the
ends of science.
We may observe, however, that the above is not an
exact account of the first, or early Greek scale; for this
scale was founded on a primary division of the interval
of two octaves (the extreme range which it admitted!
Digitized by Google
MEASURE OF SECONDARY QUALITIES. 325
into five tetrachords, each tetrachord including the in­
terval of a fourth. All the notes of this series had
different names borrowed from this division*; thus
was the middle or key-note; the note below it was
Ochanos m
e
s
ó
n,the next below was mesón, the
next lower, hypatemesón. The fifth above mese was
n ete diazeugmendn, the octave was nete
4. But supposing a complete system of such denomi­
nations established, how could it be with certainty and
rigour applied ? The human ear is fallible, the organs
o f voice imperfectly obedient; if this were not so, there
would be no such thing as a good ear or a good voice.
W hat means can be devised of finding at will a perfect
concord, a fifth or a fourth? Or supposing such con­
cords fixed by an acknowledged authority, how can they
be referred to, and the authority adduced? How can
we enact a Standard of sounds ?
A Standard was discovered in the Monochord. A
musical string properly stretched, may be made to pro­
duce different notes, in proportion as we intercept a
longer or shorter portion, and make this portion vibrate.
The relation of the length of the strings which thus
sound the two notes g and c is fixed and constant, and
the same is true of all other notes. Hence the musical
interval of any notes of which we know the places in
the musical scale, may be reproduced by measuring the
lengths of string which are known to give them. If c
be of the length 180, d is 169, E is 144, f is 135, g is
120; and thus the musical relations are reduced to
numerical relations, and the monochord is a complete
and perfect Tonometer.
We have here taken the length of the string as the
measure of the tone: but we may observe that there is
in uS a necessary tendency to assume that the ground
• Burney’s History o f Music, Yol. I. p. 28.
Digitized by Googk
of this measure is to be sought in some ulterior cause;
and when we consider the matter further, we find this
cause in the frequency of these vibrations of the string.
The truth that the same note must result from the same
frequency of vibration is readily assented to on a slight
suggestion of experience. Thus Mersenne*, when he
undertakes to determine the frequency of vibrations of a
given sound, says “Supponendum est quoscunque nervos
et quaslibet chordas unisonum facientes eundem efficere
numerum recursuum eodem vel equali tempore, quod
perpetual constat experientiA” And he proceeds to
apply it to cases where experience could not verify this
assertion, or at least had not verified it, as to that of
pipes.
The pursuit of these numerical relations of tones
forms the science of Harmonics; of which here we do
not pretend to give an account, but only to show, how
the invention of a Scale and Nomenclature, a Standard
and Measure of the tone of sounds, is its necessary basis.
We will therefore now proceed to speak of another sub­
ject; colour.
326 PHILOSOPHY OF SECONDARY MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
Sect. III.—Scales qf Colour.
5. The Prismatic Scale of Colour.— A Scale of
Colour must depend originally upon differences discern­
ible by the eye, as a scale of notes depends on differences
perceived by the ear. In one respect the difficulty is
greater in the case of the visible qualities, for there are
no relations of colour which the eye peculiarly singles
out and distinguishes, as the ear selects and distinguishes
an octave or a fifth. Hence we are compelled to take
an arbitrary scale; and we have to find one which is
fixed, and which includes a proper collection of colours.
The prismatic spectrum, or coloured image produced
* Hartnonia, Lib. n. Prop. 19.
Digitized by Google
MEASURE OF SECONDARY QUALITIES. 327
when a small beam of light passes obliquely through
any transparent surface (as the surface of a prism of
glass,) offers an obvious Standard as far as it is appli­
cable. Accordingly colours have, for various purposes,
been designated by their place in the spectrum ever
since the time of Newton; and we have thus a means of
referring to such colours as are included in the series
red, orange, yellow, green, blue, violet, indigo, and the
intermediate tints.
But this scale is not capable of numerical precision.
If the spectrum could be exactly defined as to its ex­
tremities, and if these colours occupied always the same
proportional part of it, we might describe any colour in
the above series by the measure of its position. But
the fact is otherwise. The spectrum is too indefinite in
its boundaries to afford any distinct point from which
we may commence our measures; and moreover the
spectra produced by different transparent bodies differ
from each other. Newton had supposed that the spec­
trum and its parts were the same, so long as the refrac­
tion was the same; but his successors discovered that,
with the same amount of refraction in different kinds of
glass, there are different magnitudes of the spectrum;
and what is still worse with reference to our present
purpose, that the spectra from different glasses have
the colours distributed in different proportions. In order,
therefore, to make the spectrum the scale of colour, we
must assume some fixed substance; for instance, we may
take water, and thus a series approaching to the colours
of the rainbow will be our standard. But we should
still have an extreme difficulty in applying such a rule.
The distinctions of colour which the terms of common
language express, are not used with perfect unapimity
or with rigorous precision. What one person calls bluish
green another calls greenish . Nobody can say
Digitized by Googk
what is the precise boundary between red and orange.
Thus the prismatic scale of colour was incapable o f
mathematical exactness, and this inconvenience was felt
up to our own times.
But this difficulty was removed by a curious dis­
covery of Wollaston and Fraunhofer; who found that
there are, in the solar spectrum, certain fine black Lines
which occupy a definite place in the series of colours,
and can be observed with perfect precision. We have
now no uncertainty as to what coloured light we are
speaking of, when we describe it as that part of the
spectrum in which Fraunhofer’s Line c or D occurs.
And thus, by this discovery, the prismatic spectrum of
sunlight became, for certain purposes, an exact Chroma­
tometer.
6. Newton's Scale of Colours.—Still, such a standard,
though definite, is arbitrary and seemingly anomalous.
The lines A, b, c, d, &c., of Fraunhofer’s spectrum are
distributed without any apparent order or law; and we
do not, in this way, obtain numerical measures, which is
what, in all cases, we desire to have. Another discovery
of Newton, however, gives us a spectrum containing the
same colours as the prismatic spectrum, but produced in
another way, so that the colours have a numerical rela­
tion. I speak of the laws of the colours of thin plates.
The little rainbows which we sometimes see in the cracks
of broken glass are governed by fixed and simple laws.
The kind of colour produced at any point depends on
the thickness of the thin plate of air included in the fis­
sure. If the thickness be eight-millionths of an inch,
the colour is orange, if fifteen-millionths of an inch, we
have green, and so on ; and thus these numbers which
succeed each other in a regular order from red to indigo,
give a numerical measure of each colour; which mea­
sure, when we pursue the subject, we find is one of the
328 PHILOSOPHY OF SECONDARY MECHANICAL 8CIENCES.
Digitized by Google
MEASURE OF SECONDARY QUALITIES. 329
bases of all optical theory. The series of colours ob­
tained from plates of air of gradually increasing thick­
ness is called Newton's Scale of Colours; but we may
observe that this is not precisely what we are here speak­
ing of a scale of simple colours; it is a series produced
by certain combinations, resulting from the repetition of
the first spectrum, and is mainly useful as a standard for
similar phenomena, and not for colour in general. The
real scale of colour is to be found, as we have said, in
the numbers which express the thickness of the pro­
ducing film;—in the length of afit in Newton’s phrase­
ology, or the length of an undulation in the modern
theory.
7. Scales of Impure Colours.—The standards just
spoken of include (mainly at least) only pure and simple
colours; and however complete they may be for certain
objects of the science of optics, they are insufficient for
other purposes. They do not enable us to put in their
place mixed and impure colours. And there is, in the
case of colour, a difficulty already noticed, which does
not occur in the case of sound; two notes, when sounded
together, are not necessarily heard as one; they are
recognized as still two, and as forming a concord or a
discord. But two colours form a single colour; and the
eye cannot, in any way, distinguish between a green
compounded of blue and yellow, and the simple, unde­
composable green of the spectrum. By composition of
three or more colours, innumerable new colours may be
generated which form no part of the prismatic series;
and by such compositions is woven the infinitely varied
web of colour which forms the clothing of nature. How
are we to classify and arrange all the possible colours
of objects, so that each shall have a place and name ?
How shall we find a chromatometer for impure as well
as for pure colour ?
Digitized by Googk
Though no optical investigations have depended on a
scale of impure colours, such a scale has been wanted
and invented for other purposes; for instance, in order
to identify and describe objects of natural history. Not
to speak of earlier essays, we may notice Werner’s No­
menclature of Colours, devised for the purpose of de­
scribing minerals. This scale of colour was far superior
to any which had previously been promulgated. It was,
indeed, arbitrary in the selection of its degrees, and in
a great measure in their arrangement; and the colours
were described by the usual terms, though generally
with some added distinction; as blackish , bluish
green, apple-green, emerald-green. But the great merit
of the scale was its giving a fixed conventional meaning
to these terms, so that they lost much of their usual
vagueness. Thus apple-green did not mean the colour
of any green apple casually taken; but a certain definite
colour which the student was to bear in mind, whether or
not he had ever seen an apple of that exact hue. The
words were not a description, but a record of the colour:
the memory was to retain a sensation, not a name.
The imperfection of the system (arising from its ar­
bitrary form) was its incompleteness: however well it
served for the reference of the colours which it did con­
tain, it was applicable to no others; and thus, though
Werner’s enumeration extended to more than a hundred
colours, there occur in nature a still greater number
which cannot be exactly described by means of it.
In such cases the unclassed colour is, by the Werne-
rians, defined by stating it as intermediate between two
others: thus we have an object described as
emerald-green and grass-green. The eye is capable of
perceiving a gradation from one colour to another; such
as may be produced by a gradual mixture in various
ways. And if we image to ourselves such a mixture, we
3 3 0 PHILOSOPHY OF SECONDARY MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
Digitized by Google
MEASURE OP SECONDARY QUALITIES. 331
can compare with it a given colour. But in employing
this method we have nothing to tell us in what part of
the scale we must seek for an approximation to our un­
classed colour. We have no rule for discovering where
we are to look for the boundaries of the definition of a
colour which the Wernerian series does not supply.
For it is not always between contiguous members of the
series that the undescribed colour is found. If we place
emerald-green between apple-green and grass-green, we
may yet have a colour intermediate between emerald-
green and leek-green; and, in fact, the Wernerian series
of colours is destitute of a principle of self-arrangement
and gradation; and is thus necessarily and incurably
imperfect.
8. We should have a complete Scale of Colours, if
we could form a series including all colours, and arranged
so that each colour was intermediate in its tint between
the adjacent terms of the series; for then, whether we
took many or few of the steps of the series for our
standard terms, the rest could be supplied by the law of
continuity; and any given colour would either cor­
respond to one of the steps of our scale or fall between
two intermediate ones. The invention of a Chroma­
tometer for Impure Colours, therefore, requires that we
should be able to form all possible colours by such inter­
mediation in a systematic manner; that is, by the mix­
ture or combination of certain elementary colours ac­
cording to a simple rule: and we are led to ask whether
such a process has been shown to be possible.
The colours of the prismatic spectrum obviously do
form a continuous series; green is intermediate between
its neighbours yellow and blue, orange between red and
yellow; and if we suppose the two ends of the spectrum
bent round to meet each other, so that the arrangement
of the colours may be circular, the violet and indigo will
Digitized by Google
find their appropriate place between the blue and red.
And all the inteijacent tints of the spectrum, as well as
the ones thus named, will result from such an arrange­
ment. Thus all the pure colours are produced by com­
binations two and two of three primary colours, red,
yellow, and blue; and the question suggests itself
whether these three are not really the only primary
colours, and whether all the impure colours do not arise
from mixtures of the three in various proportions.
There are various modes in which this suggestion may
be applied to the construction of a scale of colours; but
the simplest, and the one which appears really to verify
the conjecture that all possible colours may be so ex­
hibited, is the following. A certain combination of red,
yellow, and blue, will produce black, or pure grey, and
when diluted, will give all the shades of grey which
intervene between black and white. By adding various
shades of grey, then, to pure colours, we may obtain all
the possible ternary combinations of red, yellow, and
blue; and in this way it is found that we exhaust the
range of colours. Thus the circle of pure colours of
which we have spoken may be accompanied by several
other circles, in which these colours are tinged with a
less or greater shade of grey; and in this manner it is
found that we have a perfect chromatometer; every
possible colour being exhibited either exactly or by
means of approximate and contiguous limits. The ar­
rangement of colours has been brought into this final
and complete form by M. Merim^e, whose Chromatic
Scale is published by M. Mirbel in his Elements of Bo­
tany. We may observe that such a standard affords us
a numerical exponent for every colour by means of the
proportions of the three primary colours which compose
it; or, expressing the same result otherwise, by means
of the pure colour which is involved, and the proportion
3 3 2 PHILOSOPHY OF SECONDARY MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
of grey by which it is rendered impure. In such a
scale the fundamental elements would be the precise
tints of red, yellow, and blue which are found or as­
sumed to be primary; the numerical exponents of each
colour would depend upon the arbitrary number of de­
grees which we interpose between each two primary
colours; and between each pure colour and absolute
blackness. No such numerical scale has, however, as yet,
obtained general acceptation*.
Sect. IV.—Scales of Light.
9. Photometer.—Another instrument much needed
in optical researches is a Photometer, a measure of the
intensity of light. In this case, also, the organ of sense,
the eye, is the ultimate judge; nor has any effect of
light, as light, yet been discovered which we can sub­
stitute for such a judgment. All instruments, such as
that of Leslie, which employ the heating effect of light,
or at least all that have hitherto been proposed, are in­
admissible as photometers. But though the eye can
MEASURE OF SECONDARY QUALITIES. 3 3 3
* The reference to Fraunhofer s Lines, as a means of determining
the place of a colour in the prismatic series, has been objected to,
because, as is asserted, the colours which are in the neighbourhood of
each line vary with the position of the sun, state of the atmosphere
and the like. It is very evident that coloured light refracted by the
prism will not give the same spectrum as white light. The spectrum
given by white light is of course the one here meant. It is an usual
practice of optical experimenters to refer to the colours of such a
spectrum, defining them by Fraunhdfer's Lines.
I do not know whether it needs explanation that the “ first spec­
trum” in Newtons rings is a ring of the prismatic colours.
I have not had an opportunity of consulting Lambert's Pholometria,
sive de mensura et gradibus luminis, colorum, et umbrae, published in
1760, nor Mayer's Commentatio de Affinitale Colorum, (1758,) in
which, I believe, he describes a chromatometer. The present work is
not intended to be complete as a history; and I hope I have given
sufficient historical detail to answer its philosophical purpose.
Digitized by Google
judge of two surfaces illuminated by light of the same
colour, and can determine when they are equally bright,
or which is the brighter, the eye can by no means decide
at sight the proportion of illumination. How much in
such judgments we are affected by contrast, is easily seen
when we consider how different is the apparent bright­
ness of the moon at mid-day and at midnight, though
the light which we receive from her is, in fact, the same
at both periods. In order to apply a scale in this case,
we must take advantage of the known numerical rela­
tions of light. We are certain that if all other illumi­
nation be excluded, two equal luminaries, under the
same circumstances, will produce an illumination twice
as great as one does ; and we can easily prove, from ma­
thematical considerations, that if light be not enfeebled
by the medium through which it passes, the illumination
on a given surface will diminish as the square of the
distance of the luminary increases. If, therefore, we
can by taking a fraction thus known of the illuminating
effect of one luminary, make it equal to the total effect
of another, of which equality the eye is a competent
judge, we compare the effects of the two luminaries. In
order to make this comparison we may, with Rumford,
look at the shadows of the same object made by the two
lights, or with Ritchie, we may view the brightness pro­
duced on two contiguous surfaces, framing an apparatus
so that the equality may be brought about by proper
adjustment; and thus a measure will become practica­
ble. Or we may employ other methods as was done by
Wollaston*, who reduced the light of the sun by observ­
ing it as reflected from a bright globule, and thus found
the light of the sun to be 10,000,000,000 times that of
Sirius, the brightest fixed star. All these methods are
inaccurate, even as methods of comparison ; and do not
• Phil. Tram., 1829, p. 19.
3 3 4 PHILOSOPHY OF SECONDARY MECHANICAL 8CIENCES.
Digitized by Googk
offer any fixed or convenient numerical standard; but
none better have yet been devised*.
10. Cyanometer.—As we thus measure the brightness
of a colourless light, we may measure the intensity of
any particular colour in the same way; that is, by apply­
ing a standard exhibiting the gradations of the colour in
question till we find a shade which is seen to agree with
the proposed object. Such an instrument we have in
the C
yanom
eter, which was invented by Saussure for the
purpose of measuring the intensity of the blue colour of
the sky. We may introduce into such an instrument a
numerical scale, but the numbers in such a scale will be
altogether arbitrary.
S ect. V.—Scales of Heat.
11. Thermometers.— When we proceed to the sensa­
tion of heat, and seek a measure of that quality, we find,
at first sight, new difficulties. Our sensations of this
kind are more fluctuating than those of vision; for we
know that the same object may feel warm to one hand
and cold to another at the same instant, if the hands
have been previously cooled and warmed respectively.
Nor can we obtain here, as in the case of light, self-evi­
dent numerical relations of the heat communicated in
given circumstances; for we know that the effect so pro­
duced will depend on the warmth of the body to be
heated, as well as on that of the source of heat; the
summer sun, which warms our bodies, will not augment
the heat of a red-hot iron. The cause of the differ­
ence of these cases is, that bodies do not receive the
whole of their heat, as they receive the whole of their
light, from the immediate influence of obvious external
* Improved Photometers have been devised by Professor Wheat­
stone, Professor Potter, and Professor Steinheil; but they depend upon
principles similar to those mentioned in the text.
MEASURE OF SECONDARY QUALITIES. 3 3 5
Digitized by Googk
agents. There is no readily-discovered absolute cold,
corresponding to the absolute darkness which we can
easily produce or imagine. Hence we should be greatly
at a loss to devise a T
h
e
r
m
o
m
e
t
e
r,if we did not find a
indirect effect of heat sufficiently constant and measurable
to answer this purpose. We discover, however, such an
effect in the expansion of bodies by the effect of heat.
12. Many obvious phenomena show that air, under
given circumstances, expands by the effect of h ea t; the
same is seen to be true of liquids, as of water, and spirit
of wine; and the property is found to belong also to the
metallic fluid, quicksilver. A more careful examination
showed that the increase of bulk in some of these bodies
by increase of heat was a fact of a nature sufficiently
constant and regular to afford a means of measuring that
previously intangible quality; and the Thermometer was
invented. There were, however, many difficulties to
overcome, and many points to settle, before this instru­
ment was fit for the purposes of science.
An explanation of the way in which this was done
necessarily includes an important chapter of the history
of Thermotics. We must now, therefore, briefly notice
historically the progress of the Thermometer. The lead­
ing steps of this progress, after the first invention of the
instrument, were—The establishment of fixed points in
the thermometric scale— The comparison of the scales
of different substances—And the reconcilement of these
differences by some method of interpreting them as indi­
cations of the absolute quantity of heat.
13. It would occupy too much space to give in detail
the history of the successive attempts by which these
steps were effected. A thermometer is described by
Bacon under the title Vitrum this was an
air thermometer. Newton used a thermometer of linseed
oil, and he perceived that the first step requisite to give
3 3 6 PHILOSOPHY OP SECONDARY MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
MEASURE OF SECONDARY QUALITIES. 3 3 7
value to such an instrument was to fix its scale; accord­
ingly he proposed his Scala Cakyris*. But
when thermometers of different liquids were compared,
it appeared, from their discrepancies, that this fixation
of the scale of heat was more difficult than had been
supposed. It was, however, effected. Newton had taken
freezing water, or rather thawing snow, as the zero of
his scale, which is really a fixed point; Halley and Amon­
tons discovered (in 1693 and 1702) that the heat of
boiling water is another fixed point; and Daniel Gabriel
Fahrenheit, of Dantzig, by carefully applying these two
standard points, produced, about 1714, thermometers,
which were constantly consistent with each other. This
result was much admired at the time, and was, in fact,
the solution of the problem just stated, the fixation of
the scale o f heat.
14. But the scale thus obtained is a conventional
not a natural scale. It depends upon the fluid employed
for the thermometer. The progress of expansion from
the heat of freezing to that of boiling water is different
for mercury, oil, water, spirit of wine, air. A degree of
heat which is half-way between these two standard
points according to a mercurial thermometer, will be
below the half-way point in a spirit thermometer, and
above it in an air thermometer. Each liquid has its
own march in the course of its expansion. Deluc and
others compared the marches of various liquids, and
thus made what we may call a concordance of thermo­
meters of various kinds.
15. Here the question further occurs: Is there not
some natural measure of the degrees of heat ? It ap­
pears certain that there must be such a measure, and
that by means of it all the scales of different liquids
must be reconciled. Yet this does not seem to have
• Phil. Tram., 1701.
V
O
L
. I. W. P. Z
Digitized by Google
occurred at once to men’s minds. Deluc, in speaking
of the researches which we have just mentioned, says*,
“ When I undertook these experiments, it never once
came into my thoughts that they could conduct me with
any probability to a table of real degrees of heat. But
hope grows with success, and desire with hope.” Accord­
ingly he pursued this inquiry for a long course ofyears.
What are the principles by which we are to be
guided to the true measure of heat ? Here, as in all the
sciences of this class, we have the general principle, that
the secondary quality, heat, must be supposed to be per­
ceived in some way by a material medium or fluid. If
we take that which is, perhaps, the simplest form of this
hypothesis, that the heat depends upon the quantity of
this fluid, or caloric, which is present, we shall find that
we are led to propositions which may serve as a foun­
dation for a natural measure of heat. The Method of
Mixtures is one example of such a result. If we mix
together two pints of water, one hot and one cold, is it
not manifest that the temperature of the mixture must
be midway between the two ? Each of the two portions
brings with it its own heat. The whole heat, or caloric,
of the mixture is the sum of the two; and the heat of
each half must be the half of this sum, and therefore its
temperature must be intermediate between the tempe­
ratures of the equal portions which were mixed. Deluc
made experiments founded upon this principle, and was
led by them to conclude that “the dilatations of mer­
cury follow an accelerated march for successive equal
augmentations of heat.”
But there are various circumstances which prevent
this method of mixtures from being so satisfactory as
at first sight it seems to promise to be. The different
capacities for heat of different substances, and even of
* Modi/, de PAimosph., 1782, p. 803.
338 PHILOSOPHY OF SECONDARY MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
Digitized by Googk
MEASURE OF SECONDARY QUALITIES. 3 3 9
the same substance at different temperatures, introduce
much difficulty into the experiments; and this path of
inquiry has not yet led to a satisfactory result.
16. Another mode of inquiring into the natural
measure o f heat is to seek it by researches on the
of cooling of hot bodies. If we assume that the process
of cooling of hot bodies consists in a certain material
heat flying off we may, by means of certain probable
hypotheses, determine mathematically the law according
to which the temperature decreases as time goes on; and
we may assume that to be the true measure of tempe­
rature which gives to the experimental law of cooling
the most simple and probable form.
It appears evident from the most obvious conceptions
which we can form of the manner in which a body parts
with its superabundant heat, that the hotter a body is,
the faster it cools; though it is not clear without expe­
riment, by what law the rate of cooling will depend upon
the heat of the body. Newton took for granted the
most simple and seemingly natural law of this depend­
ence: he supposed the rate of cooling to be pi'oportional
to the temperature, and from this supposition he could
deduce the temperature of a hot iron, calculating from
the original temperature and the time during which it
had been cooling. By calculation founded on such a
basis, he graduated his thermometer.
17. But a little further consideration showed that
the rate of cooling of hot bodies depended upon the
temperature of the surrounding bodies, as well as upon
its own temperature. Prevost’s Theory <f
was propounded with a view of explaining this depend­
ence, and was generally accepted. According to this
theory, all bodies radiate heat to one another, and are
thus constantly giving and receiving heat; and a body
9Recherche$ svr la Chaleur, 1791. Hist. Ind. Set., B. x. c. i. sect. 2.
Z 2
Digitized by Googk
3 4 0 PHILOSOPHY OF SECONDARY MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
which is hotter than surrounding bodies, cools itself,
and warms the surrounding bodies, by an exchange of
heat for heat, in which they are the gainers. Hence if
0 be the temperature of the bodies, or of the space, by
which the hot body is surrounded, and + the tempe­
rature of the hot body, the rate of cooling will depend
upon the excess of the radiation for a temperature +
above the radiation for a temperature 0.
Accordingly, in the admirable researches of MM.
Dulong and Petit upon the cooling of bodies, it was
assumed that the rate of cooling of the hot body was
represented by the excess of F + t) above F ( ); where
F represented some mathematical , that is, some
expression obtained by arithmetical operations from the
temperatures 0+ ta
nd
are to be, was left undecided, and was in fact determined
by the experiments. And the result of their investiga­
tions was, that the function is of this kind:—when the
temperature increases by equal intervals, the function
increases in a continued geometric proportion*. This
was, in fact, the same law which had been assumed by
Newton and others, with this difference, that they had
neglected the term which depends upon the temperature
of the surrounding space.
18. This law falls in so well with the best concep­
tions we can form of the mechanism of cooling upon the
supposition of a radiant fluid caloric, that it gives great
probability to the scale of temperature on which the
simplicity of the result depends. Now the temperatures
in the formulae just referred to were expressed by means
of the air thei'mometer. Hence MM. Dulong and Petit
justly state that while all different substances employed
* The formula for the rate of cooling is mrf+'—
ma9, where the
quantity m depends upon the nature of the Ixidy, the state of its sur­
face, and other circumstances.—Ann. Chim. vn. loQ,
Digitized by Google
MEASURE OF SECONDARY QUALITIES. 3 4 1
as thermometers give different laws of thermotical phe­
nomena, their own success in obtaining simple and
general laws by means of the air thermometer, is a strong
recommendation of that as the natural scale qf heat.
They add*, “ The well-known uniformity of the principal
physical properties of all gases, and especially the per­
fect identity of their laws of dilatation by heat, [a very
important discovery of Dalton and Gay Lussacf,] make
it very probable that in this class of bodies the disturb­
ing causes have not the same influence as in solids and
liquids; and consequently that the changes of bulk pro­
duced by the action of heat are here in a more imme­
diate dependence on the force which produces them.”
19. Still we cannot consider this point as settled
till we obtain a more complete theoretical insight into
the nature of heat itself. If it be true that heat con­
sists in the vibrations of a fluid, then, although, as
Ampere has shown J, the laws of radiation will, on
mathematical grounds, be the same as they are on the
hypothesis of emission, we cannot consider the natural
scale of heat as determined, till we have discovered some
means of measuring the caloriferous vibrations as we
measure luminiferous vibrations. We shall only know
what the quantity of heat is when we know what heat
itself is;—when we have obtained a theory which satis­
factorily explains the manner in which the substance or
medium of heat produces it effects. When we see how
radiation and conduction, dilatation and liquefaction, are
all produced by mechanical changes of the same fluid,
we shall then see what the nature of that change is
which dilatation really measures, and what relation it
bears to any more proper standard of heat.
We may add, that while our thermotical theory is
• AnnatesdeCkimie, v ii. 153. + Hist. Ind. Sci., B. x. c. ii. sect. 1.
Xl b c. iv.
Digitized by Googk
still so imperfect as it is, all attempts to divine the true
nature of the relation between light and heat are pre­
mature, and must be in the highest degree insecure
and visionary. Speculations in which, from the general
assumption of a caloriferous and luminiferous medium,
and from a few facts arbitrarily selected and loosely
analyzed, a general theory of light and heat is asserted,
are entirely foreign to the course of inductive science,
and cannot lead to any stable and substantial truth.
20. Other Instruments for measuring Heat.— It
does not belong to our present purpose to speak of
instruments of which the object is to measure, not sen­
sible qualities, but some effect or modification of the
cause by which such qualities are produced: such, for
instance, are the Calorimeter,employed by
and Laplace, in order to compare the specific heat of
different substances; and the invented by
Sir John Herschel, in order to determine the effect of
the sun's rays by means of the heat which they commu­
nicate in a given time; which effect is, as may readily
be supposed, very different under different circumstances
of atmosphere and position. The laws of such effects
may be valuable contributions to our knowledge of heat,
but the interpretation of them must depend on a pre­
vious knowledge of the relations which temperature bears
to heat, according to the views just explained.
S ec t. VI.— Scalesof other Qualities.
21. B e f o r e quitting the subject of the measures of
sensible qualities, we may observe that there are several
other such qualities for which it would be necessary to
have scales and means of measuring, in order to make
any approach to science on such subjects. This is true,
for instance, of tastes and smells. Indeed some attempts
have been made towards a classification of the tastes of
3 4 2 PHILOSOPHY OF SECONDARY MECHANICAL 8CIENCES.
Digitized by Googk
MEASURE OF SECONDARY QUALITIES. 3 4 3
sapid substances, but these have not yet assumed any
satisfactory or systematic character ; and I am not aware
that any instruments has been suggested for measuring
either the flavour or the odour of bodies which possess
such qualities.
22. Quality of Sounds.—The same is true of that
kind of difference in sounds which is peculiarly termed
their quality ; that character by which, for instance, the
sound of a flute differs from that of a hautbois, when the
note is the same ; or a woman’s voice from a boy’s.
23. Articulate Sounds.—There is also in sounds
another difference, of which the nature is still obscure,
but in reducing which to rule, and consequently to mea­
sure, some progress has nevertheless been made. I
speak of the differences of sound considered as articulate.
Classifications of the sounds of the usual alphabets have
been frequently proposed ; for instance, that which ar­
ranges the consonants in the following groups :
Sharp. Flat. Sharp Aspirate Flat Aspirate. Nasal.
P b Ph U ) bh (v) m
k g (hard) kh gk ng
t d th (sharp) th (flat) n
s z sh zh
It is easily perceived that the relations of the sounds in
each of these horizontal lines are analogous; and accord­
ingly the rules of derivation and modification of words
in several languages proceed upon such analogies. In
the same manner the vowels may be arranged in an order
depending on their sound. But to make such arrange­
ments fixed and indisputable, we ought to know the
mechanism by which such modifications are caused. In­
struments have been invented by which some of these
sounds can be imitated; and if such instruments could
be made to produce the above series of articulate sounds,
by connected and regular processes, we should find, in
Digitized by Googk
the process, a mea,mre of the sound produced. This
has been in a great degree effected for the Vowels by
Professor Willis’s artificial mode of imitating them. For
he finds that if a musical reed be made to sound through
a cylindrical pipe, we obtain by gradually lengthening
the cylindrical pipe, the series of vowels I, E, a, o, u,
with intermediate sounds*. In this instrument, then,
the length of the pipe would determine the vowel, and
might be used numerically to express it. Such an in­
strument so employed would be a measure of vowel
quality, and might be called a Phthongometer.
Our business at present, however, is not with instru­
ments which might be devised for measuring sensible
qualities, but with those which have been so used, and
have thus been the basis of the sciences in which such
qualities are treated of; and this we have now done suf­
ficiently for our present purpose.
24. There is another Idea which, though hitherto
very vaguely entertained, has had considerable influence
in the formation, both of the sciences spoken of in the
present Book, and on others which will hereafter come
under our notice: namely, the Idea of Polarity. This
Idea will be the subject of the ensuing Book. And
although this Idea forms a part of the basis of various
other extensive portions of science, as Optics and Che­
mistry, it occupies so peculiarly conspicuous a place in
speculations belonging to what I have termed the Mecha-
nico-Chemical Sciences, (Magnetism and Electricity,)
that I shall designate the discussion of the Idea of
Polarity as the Philosophy of those Sciences.
* Comb. T r a n s Vol. in. p. 239.
3 4 4 PHILOSOPHY OF SECONDARY MECHANICAL SCIENCES.
Digitized by Googk
345
BOOK Y
.
OF T H E PH ILO SO PH Y OF THE
CHEMICAL SCIENCES.
C h a p t e r I.
ATTEMPTS AT THE SCIENTIFIC APPLICATION
OF THE IDEA OF POLARITY.
1. I n some of the mechanical sciences, as Magnetism
and Optics, the phenomena are found to depend upon
position (the position of the magnet, or of the ray of
light,) in a peculiar alternate manner. This dependence,
as it was first apprehended, was represented by means
of certain conceptions of space and force, as for instance
by considering the two poles of a magnet. But in all
such modes of representing these alternations by the
conceptions borrowed from other ideas, a closer exami­
nation detected something superfluous and something
defective; and in proportion as the view which philo­
sophers took of this relation was gradually purified from
these incongruous elements, and was rendered more
general and abstract by the discovery of analogous pro­
perties in new cases, it was perceived that the relation
could not be adequately apprehended without consider­
ing it as involving a peculiar and independent Idea,
which we may designate by the term Polarity.
We shall trace some of the forms in which this Idea
has manifested itself in the history of science. In doing
so we shall not begin, as in other Books of this work
Digitized by Google
346 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICO-CHEMICAL SCIENCES.
we have done, by speaking of the notion as it is em­
ployed in common use: for the relation of polarity is of
so abstract and technical a nature, that it is not employed,
at least in any distinct and obvious manner, on any
ordinary or practical occasions. The idea belongs pecu­
liarly to the region of speculation: in persons of com­
mon habits of thought it is probably almost or quite
undeveloped; and even most of those whose minds have
been long occupied by science, find a difficulty in appre­
hending it in its full generality and abstraction, and
stript of all irrelevant hypothesis.
2. Magnetism— The name and the notion of Poles
were first adopted in the case of a magnet. If we have
two magnets, their extremities attract and repel each
other alternatively. If the first end of the one attract
the first end of the other, it repels the second end, and
conversely. In order to express this rule conveniently,
the two ends of each magnet are called the north pole
and the south pole respectively, the denominations being
borrowed from the poles of the earth and heavens.
“These poles,” as Gilbert says*, “ regulate the motions
of the celestial spheres and of the earth. In like manner
the magnet has its poles, a northern and a southern one;
certain and determined points constituted by nature in
the stone, the primary terms of its motions and effects,
the limits and governors of many actions and virtues.”
The nature of the opposition of properties of which
we speak may be stated thus.
The North pole of one magnet attracts the South
pole of another magnet.
The North pole of one magnet repels the North pole
of another magnet.
The South pole of one magnet repels the South pole
of another magnet.
* De Magn., Lib. I. c. iii.
Digitized by Googk
The South pole of one magnet attracts the North
pole of another magnet.
It will be observed that the contrariety of position
which is indicated by putting the South pole for the
North pole in either magnet, is accompanied by the
opposition of mechanical effect which is expressed by
changing attraction into repulsion and repulsion into
attraction: and thus we have the general feature of
polarity:—A contrast of properties corresponding to a
contrast of positions.
3. Electricity,
—When the phenomena of electricity
came to be studied, it appeared that they involved rela­
tions in some respects analogous to those of magnetism.
Two kinds of electricity were distinguished, the
positive and the negative; and it appeared that two
bodies electrized positively or two electrized negatively,
repelled each other, like two north or two south magnetic
poles; while a positively and a negatively electrized body
attracted each other, like the north and south poles of
two magnets. In conductors of an oblong form, the
electricity could easily be made to distribute itself so
that one end should be positively and one end negatively
electrized; and then such conductors acted on each other
exactly as magnets would do.
But in conductors, however electrized, there is no
peculiar point which can permanently be considered as
the pole. The distribution of electricity in the conduc­
tor depends upon external circumstances: and thus,
although the phenomena offer the general character of
polarity—alternative results corresponding to alternative
positions,—they cannot be referred to poles. Some other
mode of representing the forces must be adopted than
that which makes them emanate from permanent points
as in a magnet.
The phenomena of attraction and repulsion in elec-
APPLICATION OF THE IDEA OF POLARITY. 3 4 7
Digitized by Google
trized bodies were conveniently represented by means of
the hypothesis of two electric fluids, a positive and a
negative one, which were supposed to be distributed in
the bodies. Of these fluids, it was supposed that each
repelled its own parts and attracted those of the opposite
fluid: and it was found that this hypothesis explained all
the obvious laws of electric action. Here then we have
the phenomena of polarization explained by a new kind
of machinery:—two opposite fluids distributed in bodies,
and supplying them, so to speak, with their polar forces.
This hypothesis not only explains electrical attraction,
but also the electrical spark : when two bodies, of which
the neighbouring surfaces are charged with the two
opposite fluids, approach near to each other, the mutual
attraction of the fluids becomes more and more intense,
till at last the excess of fluid on the one body breaks
through the air and rushes to the other body, in a form
accompanied by light and noise. When this transfer has
taken place, the attraction ceases, the positive and the
negative fluid having neutralized each other. Their
effort was to unite; and this union being effected, there
is no longer any force in action. Bodies in their natural
unexcited condition may be considered as occupied by a
combination of the two fluids: and hence we see how
the production of either kind of electricity is necessarily
accompanied with the production of an equivalent amount
of the opposite kind.
4. Voltaic Electricity.— Such is the case in Franklinic
electricity,—that which is excited by the common elec­
trical machine. In studying Voltaic electricity, we are
led to the conviction that the fluid which is in a condi­
tion of momentary equilibrium in electrized conductors,
exists in the state of current in the voltaic circuit. And
here we find polar relations of a new kind existing amoDg
the forces. Two voltaic currents attract each other when
3 4 8 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICO-CHEMICAL SCIENCES.
Digitized by Googk
they are moving in the same, and repel each other when
they are moving in opposite, directions.
But we find, in addition to these, other polar rela­
tions of a more abstruse kind, and which the supposition
of two fluids does not so readily explain. For instance,
if such fluids existed, distinct from each other, it might
be expected that it would be possible to exhibit one
of them separate from the other. Yet in all the phe­
nomena of electromotive currents, we attempt in vain
to obtain one kind of electricity separately. “ I have
not,” says Mr. Faraday*, “ been able to find a single
fact which could be adduced to prove the theory of
two electricities rather than one, in electric currents;
or, admitting the hypothesis of two electricities, have
I been able to perceive the slightest grounds that one
electricity can be more powerful than the other,—or
that it can be present without the other,—or that it
can be varied or in the slightest degree affected without
a corresponding variation in the other.” “ Thus,” he
adds, “ the polar character of the powers is rigorous and
complete.” Thus, we too may remark, all the super­
fluous and precarious parts gradually drop off from the
hypothesis which we devise in order to represent polar
phenomena; and the abstract notion of polarity—of equal
and opposite powers called into existence by a com­
mon condition—remains unincumbered with extraneous
machinery.
5. Light.—Another very important example of the
application of the idea of polarity is that supplied by the
discovery of the polarization of light. A ray of light
may, by various processes, be modified, so that it has dif­
ferent properties according to its different sides, although
this difference is not perceptible by any common effects.
If, for instance, a ray thus modified, pass perpendicularly
* Researches, 516,
APPLICATION OF THE IDEA OF POLARITY. 3 4 9
Digitized by Google
350 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICO-CHEMICAL SCIENCES.
through a circular glass, and fall upon the eye, we may
turn the glass round and round its frame, and we shall
made no difference in the brightness of the spot which
we see. But if, instead of a glass, we look through a
longitudinal slice of tourmaline, the spot is alternately
dark and bright as we turn the crystal through successive
quadrants. Here we have a contrast of properties (dark
and bright) corresponding to a contrast of positions, (the
position of a line east and west being contrasted with
the position north and south,) which, as we have said, is
the general character of polarity. It was with a view of
expressing this character that the term polarization was
originally introduced. Malus was forced by his disco­
veries into the use of this expression. “ We find,” he
says, in 1811, “that light acquires properties which are
relative only to the sides of the ray,—which are the same
for the north and south sides of the ray, (using the
points of the compass for description’s sake only,) and
which are different when we go from the north and south
to the east or to the west sides of the ray. I shall give
the name ofpoles to these sides of the ray, and shall call
polarization the modification which gives to light these
properties relative to these poles. I have put hitherto
the admission of this term into the description of the
physical phenomena with which we have to do: I did
not dare to introduce it into the Memoirs in which I
published my last observations: but the variety of forms
in which this new phenomenon appears, and the difficulty
of describing them, compel me to admit this new expres­
sion ; which signifies simply the modification which light
has undergone in acquiring new properties which are not
relative to the direction of the ray, but only to its sides
considered at right angles to each other, and in a plane
perpendicular to its direction.”
The theory which represents light as an emission of
Digitized by Googk
APPLICATION OF THE IDEA OF POLARITY. 351
particles was in vogue at the time when Malus published
his discoveries; and some of his followers in optical
research conceived that the phenomena which he thus
described rendered it necessary to ascribe poles and an
axis to each particle of light. On this hypothesis, light
would be polarized when the axes of all the particles
were in the same direction: and, making such a suppo­
sition, it may easily be conceived capable of transmission
through a crystal whose axis is parallel to that of the
luminous particles, and intransmissible when the axis of
the crystal is in a position transverse to that of the par­
ticles.
The hypothesis of particles possessing poles is a rude
and arbitrary assumption, in this as in other cases; but
it serves to convey the general notion of polarity, which
is the essential feature of the phenomena. The term
“ polarization of light” has sometimes been complained
of in modem times as hypothetical and obscure. But the
real cause of obscurity was, that the Idea of Polarity was,
till lately, very imperfectly developed in men’s minds.
As we have seen, the general notion of polarity,—oppo­
site properties in opposite directions,—exactly describes
the character of the optical phenomena to which the
term is applied.
It is to be recollected that in optics we never speak
of the poles, but of the planeofpolarization of a r
word sides, which Newton and Malus have used, neither
of them appears to have been satisfied with; Newton, in
employing it, had recourse to the strange Gallicism of
speaking of the coast of usual and of unusual refraction
of a crystal.
The modern theory of optics represents the plane of
polarization of light as depending, not on the position in
which the axes of the luminiferous particles lie, but on
the direction of those transverse vibrations in which light
Digitized by Google
consists. This theory is, as we have stated in the His­
tory, recommended by an extraordinary series of suc­
cesses in accounting for the phenomena. And this
hypothesis of transverse vibrations shows us another
mechanical mode, (besides the hypothesis of particles
with axes,) by which we may represent the polarity of a
ray. But we may remark that the general notion of
polarity, as applied to light in such cases, would subsist,
even if the undulatory theory were rejected. The idea
is, as we have before said, independent of all hypothetical
machinery.
I need not here refer to the various ways in which
light may be polarized, as, for instance, by being reflected
from the surface of water or of glass at certain angles, by
being transmitted through crystals, and in other ways.
In all cases the modification produced, the polarization,
is identically the same property. Nor need I mention
the various kinds of phenomena which appear as contrasts
in the result; for these are not merely light and dark, or
white and black, but red and green, and generally, a
colour and its complementary colour, exhibited in many
complex and varied configurations. These multiplied
modes in which polarized light presents itself add nothing
to the original conception of polarization: and I shall
therefore pass on to another subject.
6. Crystallization.—Bodies which are perfectly crys­
tallized exhibit the most complete regularity and sym­
metry of form; and this regularity not only appears in
their outward shape, but pervades their whole texture,
and manifests itself in their cleavage, their transparency,
and in the uniform and determinate optical properties
which exist in every part, even the smallest fragment of
the mass. If we conceive crystals as composed of par­
ticles, we must suppose these particles to be arranged in
the most regular manner; for example, if we suppose
3 5 2 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICO-CHEMICAL SCIENCES.
Digitized by Googk
APPLICATION OK THE IDEA OF POLARITY. 3 5 3
each particle to have an axis, we must suppose all these
axes to be parallel; for the direction of the axis of the
particles is indicated by the physical and optical pro­
perties of the crystal, and therefore this direction must
be the same for every portion of the crystal. This
parallelism of the axes of the particles may be con­
ceived to result from the circumstance of each particle
having poles, the opposite poles attracting each other.
In virtue of forces acting as this hypothesis assumes, a
collection of small magnetic particles would arrange
themselves in parallel positions; and such a collection of
magnetic particles offers a sort of image of a crystal.
Thus we are led to conceive the particles of crystals as
polarized, and as determined in their crystalline positions
by polar forces. This mode of apprehending the consti­
tution of crystals has been adopted by some of our most
eminent philosophers. Thus Berzelius says*, “ It is de­
monstrated, that the regular forms of bodies presuppose
an effort of their atoms to touch each other by preference
in certain points; that is, they are founded upon a Pola­
rity —he adds, “ a polarity which can be no other than
an electric or magnetic polarity.” In this latter clause
we have the identity of different kinds of polarity
asserted; a principle which we shall speak of in the
next chapter. But we may remark, that even without
dwelling upon this connexion, any notion which we can
form of the structure of crystals necessarily involves the
idea of polarity. Whether this polarity necessarily re­
quires us to believe crystals to be composed of atoms
which exert an effort to touch each other in certain points
by preference, is another question. And, in agreement
with what has been said respecting other kinds of polarity,
we shall probably find, on a more profound examination
of the subject, that while the idea of polarity is essential,
* Essay on theTheory of Chemical , 1820, p. 113.
V OL. I. W . P . A A
Digitized by Googk
3 5 4 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICO-CHEMICAL SCIENCES.
the machinery by which it is thus expressed is precarious
and superfluous.
7. Chemical Affinity.— We shall have, in the next
Book, to speak of Chemical Affinity at some length; but
since the ultimate views to which philosophers have been
led, induce them to consider the forces of affinity as
polar forces, we must enumerate these among the exam­
ples of polarity. In chemical processes, opposites tend
to unite, and to neutralize each other by their union.
Thus an acid or an alkali combine with vehemence, and
form a compound, a neutral salt, which is neither acid
nor alkaline.
This conception of contrariety and mutual neutraliza­
tion, involves the idea of polarity. In the conception, as
entertained by the earlier chemists, the idea enters very
obscurely: but in the attempts which have more recently
been made to connect this relation (of acid and base,) with
other relations, the chemical elements have been conceived
as composed of particles which possess poles; like poles
repelling, and unlike attracting each other, as they do in
magnetic and electric phenomena. This is, however, a
rude and arbitrary way of expressing polarity, and, as may
be easily shown, involves many difficulties which do not
belong to the idea itself. Mr. Faraday, who has been
led by his researches to a conviction of the polar nature
of the forces of chemical affinity, has expressed their
character in a more general manner, and without any of
the machinery of particles indued with poles. Accord­
ing to his view, chemical synthesis and analysis must
always be conceived as taking place in virtue of equal
and opposite forces, by which the particles are united or
separated. These forces, by the very circumstance of
their being polar, may be transferred from point to point.
For if we conceive a string of particles, and if the positive
force of the first particle be liberated and brought into
Digitized by Google
action, its negative force also must be set free : this
negative force neutralizes the positive force of the next
particle, and therefore the negative force of this particle
(before employed in neutralizing its positive force,) is set
free : this is in the same way transferred to the next
particle, and so on. And thus we have a positive force
active at one extremity of a line of particles, correspond­
ing to a negative force at the other extremity, all the
intermediate particles reciprocally neutralizing each
other’s action. This conception of the transfer of chemi­
cal action was indeed at an earlier period introduced by
Grotthus*, and confirmed by Davy. But in Mr. Fara­
day’s hands we see it divested of all that is superfluous,
and spoken of, not as a line of particles, but as “ an axis
of power, having [at every point,] contrary forces, ex­
actly equal, in opposite directions.”
8. General Remarks.—Thus, as we see, the notion
of polarity is applicable to many large classes of phe­
nomena. Yet the idea in a distinct and general form is
only of late growth among philosophers. It has gra­
dually been abstracted and refined from many extraneous
hypotheses which were at first supposed to be essential
to it. We have noticed some of these hypotheses ;—as
the poles of a body; the poles of the particles of a fluid ;
two opposite fluids ; a single fluid in excess and defect ;
transverse vibrations. To these others might be added.
Thus Dr. Proutf assumes that the polarity of molecules
results from their rotation on their axes, the opposite
motions of contiguous molecules being the cause of
opposite (positive and negative) polarities.
But none of these hypotheses can be proved by the
fact of polarity alone ; and they have been in succession
rejected when they had been assumed on that ground.
• D umab, Leçons sur la Philosophie Chimique, p. 401.
t Bridgewater Treatise, p. 559.
A A 2
APPLICATION OF THE IDEA OF POLARITY. 3 5 5
Digitized by Google
3 5 6 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICO-CI1EMICAL SCIENCES.
Thus Davy, in 1826, speaking of chemical forces says*,
“ In assuming the idea of two ethereal, subtile, elastic
fluids, attractive of the particles of each other, and
repulsive as to their own particles, capable of combining
in different proportions with bodies, and according to
their proportions giving them their specific qualities and
rendering them equivalent masses, it would be natural
to refer the action of the poles to the repulsions of the
substances combined with the excess of one fluid, and
the attractions of those united to the excess of the other
fluid; and a history of the phenomena, not unsatisfactory
to the reason, might in this way be made out. But as
it is possible likewise to take an entirely different view
of the subject, on the idea of the dependence of the
results upon the primary attractive powers of the parts
of the combination on a single subtile fluid, I shall not
enter into any discussion on this obscure part of the
theory.” Which of these theories will best represent the
case, will depend upon the consideration of other facts,
in combination with the polar phenomena, as we see in
the history of optical theory. In like manner Mr.
Faraday proved by experiment f the errour of all theories
which ascribe electro-chemical decomposition to the
attraction of the poles of the voltaic battery.
In order that they may distinctly image to them­
selves the idea of polarity, men clothe it in some of
the forms of machinery above spoken of; yet every new
attempt shows them the unnecessary difficulties in which
they thus involve themselves. But on the other hand
it is difficult to apprehend this idea divested of all
machinery; and to entertain it in such a form that it
shall apply at the same time to magnetism and elec­
tricity, galvanism and chemistry, crystalline structure
and light. The Idea of Polarity becomes most pure and
• P
h
il.T
r., 1826, p. 415. t , p. 495, &e.
Digitized by Googk
APPLICATION OF TUE IDEA OF POLARITY. 357
genuine, when we entirely reject the conception of Poles,
as Faraday has taught us to do in considering electro­
chemical decomposition; but it is only by degrees and
by effort that we can reach this point of abstraction and
generality.
9. There is one other remark which we may here
make. It was a maxim commonly received in the ancient
schools of philosophy, that “ like attracts l i k e b u t as
we have seen, the universal maxim of polar phenomena
is, that like repels like, and attracts unlike. The north
pole attracts the south pole, the positive fluid attracts
the negative fluid; opposite elements rush together;
opposite motions reduce each other to rest. The per­
manent and stable course of things is that which results
from the balance and neutralization of contrary ten­
dencies. Nature is constantly labouring after repose by
the effect of such tendencies; and so far as polar forces
enter into her economy, she seeks harmony by means of
discord, and unity by opposition.
Although the Idea of Polarity is as yet somewhat
vague and obscure, even in the minds of the cultivators
of physical science, it has nevertheless given birth to
some general principles which have been accepted as
evident, and have had great influence on the progress
of science. These we shall now consider.
C h a p t e r II.
OF THE CONNEXION OF POLARITIES.
1. It has appeared in the preceding chapter that in
cases in which the phenomena suggest to us the idea of
polarity, we are also led to assume some material ma­
chinery as the mode in which the polar forces are exerted.
Digitized by Googk
We assume, for instance, globular, particles which possess
poles, or the vibrations of a fluid, or two fluids attract­
ing each other; in every case, in short, some hypothesis
by which the existence and operation of the polarity is
embodied in geometrical and mechanical properties of a
medium; nor is it possible for us to avoid proceeding
upon the conviction that some such hypothesis must be
true; although the nature of the connexion between
the mechanism and the phenomena must still be inde­
finite and arbitrary.
But since each class of polar phenomena is thus
referred to an ulterior cause, of which we know no more
than that it has a polar character, it follows that different
polarities may result from the same cause manifesting
its polar character under differeut aspects. Taking, for
example, the hypothesis of globular particles, if elec­
tricity result from an action dependent upon the poles
of each globule, magnetism may depend upon an action
in the equate»' of each globule; or taking the supposition
of transverse vibrations, if polarized light result directly
from such vibrations, crystallization may have reference
to the axes of the elasticity of the medium by which the
vibrations are rendered transverse,—so far as the polar
character only of the phenomeqa is to be accounted for.
I say this may be so, in so fa r only as the polar cha­
racter of the phenomena is concerned; for whether the
relation of electricity to magnetism, or of crystalline
forces to light, can really be explained by such hypo­
theses, remains to be determined by the facts themselves.
But since the first necessary feature of the hypothesis
is, that it shall give polarity, and since an hypothesis
which does this, may, by its mathematical relations, give
polarities of different kinds and in different directions,
any two co-existent kinds of polarity may result from
the same cause, manifesting itself in various manners.
358 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICO-CHEMICAL SCIENCES.
Digitized by Googk
OF THE CONNEXION OF POLARITIES. 3 5 9
The conclusion to which we are led by these general
considerations is, that two co-existing classes of polar
phenomena maybe effects of the same cause. But tho
who have studied such phenomena more deeply and
attentively have, in most or in all cases, arrived at the
conviction that the various kinds of polarity in such
cases must be connected and fundamentally identical.
As this conviction has exercised a great influence, both
upon the discoveries of new facts and upon the theore­
tical speculations of modern philosophers, and has been
put forward by some writers as a universal principle of
science, I will consider some of the cases in which it has
been thus applied.
2.Connexion of Magnetic and Electinc Polarity.—
The polar phenomena of electricity and magnetism are
clearly analogous in their laws: and obvious facts showed
at an early period that there was some connexion be­
tween the two agencies. Attempts were made to esta­
blish an evident and definite relation between the two
kinds of force, which attempts proceeded upon the prin­
ciple now under consideration;—namely, that in such
cases, the two kinds of polarity must be connected. Pro­
fessor CErsted, of Copenhagen, was one of those who
made many trials founded upon this conviction: yet all
these were long unsuccessful. At length, in 1820, he
discovered that a galvanic current, passing at right angles
near to a magnetic needle, exercises upon it a powerful
deflecting force. The connexion once detected between
magnetism and galvanism was soon recognized as con­
stant and universal. It was represented in different
hypothetical modes by different persons; some consider­
ing the galvanic current as the primitive axis, and the
magnet as constituted of galvanic currents passing round
it at right angles to the magnetic axis; while others
conceived the magnetic axis as the primitive one, and
Digitized by Googk
3 6 0 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICO-CHEMICAL SCIENCES.
the electric current as implying a magnetic current
round the wire. So far as many of the general relations
of these two kinds of force were concerned, either mode
of representation served to express them ; and thus the
assumption that the two polarities, the magnetic and
the electric, were fundamentally identical, was verified,
so far as the phenomena of magnetic attraction, and the
like, were concerned.
Tneed not here mention how this was further con­
firmed by the experiments in which, by means of the
forces thus brought into view, a galvanic wire was made
to revolve round a magnet, and a magnet round a gal­
vanic wire ;—in which artificial magnets were constructed
of coils of galvanic wire ;—and finally, in which the gal­
vanic spark was obtained from the magnet. The identity
which sagacious speculators had divined even before it
was discovered, and which they had seen to be universal
as soon as it was brought to light, was completely mani­
fested in every imaginable form.
The relation of the electric and magnetic polarities
was found to be, that they were transverse to each
other, and this relation exhibited under various condi­
tions of form and position of the apparatus, gave rise to
very curious and unexpected perplexities. The degree
of complication which this relation may occasion, may be
judged of from the number of constructions and modes
of conception offered by (Ersted, Wollaston, Faraday,
and others, for the purpose offraming a technical memory
of the results. The magnetic polarity gives us the north
and south poles of the needle; the electric polarity
makes the current positive and negative; and these pairs
of opposites are connected by relations of situation, as
above and below, right and left; and give rise to the
resulting motion of the needle one way or the other.
3. Ampère, by framing his hypotheses of the action
Digitized by Google
of voltaic currents and the constitution of magnets,
reduced all these technical rules to rigorous deductions
from one general principle. And thus the vague and
obscure persuasion that there be some connexion
between electricity and magnetism, so long an idle and
barren conjecture, was unfolded into a complete theory,
according to which magnetic and electromotive actions
are only two different manifestations of the same forces;
and all the above-mentioned complex relations of pola­
rities are reduced to one single polarity, that of the
electro-dynamic current.
4. As the idea of polarity was thus firmly established
and clearly developed, it became an instrument of rea­
soning. Thus it led Ampère to maintain that the original
or elementary forces in electro-dynamic action could not
be as M. Biot thought they were, a statical couple, but
must be directly opposite to each other. The same idea
enabled Mr. Faraday to carry on with confidence such
reasonings as the following* : “ No other known power
has like direction with that exerted between an electric
current and a magnetic pole ; it is tangential, while all
other forces acting at a distance are direct. Hence if a
magnetic pole on one side of a revolving plate follow
its course by reason of its obedience to the tangential
force exerted upon it by the very current of electricity
which it has itself caused ; a similar pole on the other
side of the plate should immediately set it free from this
force ; for the currents which have to be formed by the
two poles are in contrary directions.” And in Article
1114 of his Researches, the same eminent philosopher
infers that if electricity and magnetism are considered
as the results of a peculiar agent or condition, exerted
in determinate directions perpendicular to each other,
one must be by some means convertible into the other;
* Researches, 244.
OF TUE CONNEXION OF POLARITIES. 3 (jl
Digitized by Google
and this he was afterwards able to prove to be the case
in fact.
Thus the principle that the co-existent polarities of
magnetism and electricity are connected and fundamen­
tally identical, is not only true, but is far from being
either vague or barren. It has been a fertile source
both of theories which have, at present, a very great pro­
bability, and of the discovery of new and striking facts.
We proceed to consider other similar cases.
5. Connexion of Electrical and Chemical Polari­
ties.—The doctrine that the chemical forces by which
the elements of bodies are held together or separated,
are identical with the polar forces of electricity, is a
great discovery of modern times; so great and so recent,
indeed, that probably men of science in general have
hardly yet obtained a clear view and firm hold of this
truth. This doctrine is now, however, entirely esta­
blished in the minds of the most profound and philoso­
phical chemists of our time. The complete developement
and confirmation of this as of other great truths, was
preceded by more vague and confused opinions gradu­
ally tending to this point; and the progress of thought
and of research was impelled and guided, in this as in
similar cases, by the persuasion that these co-existent
polarities could not fail to be closely connected with
each other. While the ultimate and exact theory to
which previous incomplete and transitory theories tended
is still so new and so unfamiliar, it must needs be a
matter of difficulty and responsibility for a common
reader to describe the steps by which truth has advanced
from point to point. I shall, therefore, in doing this,
guide myself mainly by the historical sketches of the
progress of this great theory, which, fortunately for us,
have been given us by the two philosophers who have
3G2 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICO-C1IEMICAL SCIENCES.
Digitized by Google
OF THE CONNEXION OF POLARITIES. 363
played by far the most important parts in the discovery,
Davy and Faraday.
It will be observed that we are concerned here with
the progress of theory, and.not of experiment, except so
far as it is confirmatory of theory. In Davy’s Memoir *
of 1826, on the Relations of Electrical and Chemical
Changes, he gives the historical details to which I have
alluded. Already in 1802 he had conjectured that all
chemical decompositions might be polar. In 1806 he
attempted to confirm this conjecture, and succeeded, to
his own satisfaction, in establishing f that the combina­
tions and decompositions by electricity were referable
to the law of electrical attractions and repulsions; and
advanced the hypothesis (as he calls it,) that chemical
and electrical attractions were produced by the same
cause, acting in one case on particles, in the other on
masses. This hypothesis was most strikingly confirmed
by the author’s being able to use electrical agency as a
more powerful means of chemical decomposition than
any which had yet been applied. “ Believing,” he adds,
“ that our philosophical systems are exceedingly im­
perfect, I never attached much importance to this hypo­
thesis; but having formed it after a copious induction
of facts, and having gained by the application of it a
number of practical results, and considering myself as
much the author of it as I was of the decomposition of
the alkalies, and having developed it in an elementary
work as far as the present state of chemistry seemed to
allow, I have never,” he says “ criticized or examined
the manner in which diiferent authors have adopted or
explained it, contented, if in the hands of others, it
assisted the arrangements of chemistry or mineralogy,
or became an instrument of discovery.” When the doc­
trine had found an extensive acceptance among chemists,
* Phil. T
r
a
n
s
.
, 1820, p. 383. * Ibid., p. 389.
Digitized by Googk
attempts were made to show that it had been asserted
by earlier writers: and though Davy justly denies all
value to these pretended anticipations, they serve to
show, however dimly, the working of that conviction of
the connexion of co-existent properties which all along
presided in men’s minds during this course of investi­
gation. “ Ritter and Winterl have been quoted,” Davy
says*, “ among other persons, as having imagined or
anticipated the relation between electrical powers and
chemical affinities before the discovery of the pile of
Volta. But whoever will read with attention Ritter’s
*Evidence that Galvanic action exists in organized
nature,’ and Winter’s Prolusiones od Chemiam
decimi noni, will find nothing to justify this opinion.”
He then refers to the Queries of Newton at the end of
his Optics. “ These,” he says, “ contain more grand and
speculative views that might be brought to bear upon
this question than any found in the works of modern
electricians *
, but it is very unjust to the experimentalists
who by the laborious application of new instruments,
have discovered novel facts and analogies, to refer them
to any such suppositions as that all attractions, chemical,
electrical, magnetical, and gravitative, may depend upon
the same cause.” It is perfectly true, that such vague
opinions, though arising from that tendency to generalize
which is the essence of science, are of no value except
so far as they are both rendered intelligible, and con­
firmed by experimental research.
The phenomena of chemical decomposition by means
of the voltaic pile, however, led other persons to views
very similar to those of Davy. Thus Grotthus in 1805f
published an hypothesis of the same kind. “The pile of
Volta,” he says, “ is an electrical magnet, of which each
element, that is, each pair of plates, has a positive and a
• Phil. Trans., 1826, p. 384. + Ann. ., Lxviii. 54.
3G4 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICO-CHEMICAL SCIENCES.
Digitized by Googk
OF TI1K CONNEXION OF POLARITIES. 3 6 5
negative pole. The consideration of this polarity sug­
gested to me the idea that a similar polarity may come
into play between the elementary particles of water
when acted upon by the same electrical agent; and I
avow that this thought was for me a flash of light.”
6. The thought, however, though thus brought into
being, was very far from being as yet freed from vague­
ness, superfluities, and errours. I have elsewhere noticed*
Faraday’s remark on Davy’s celebrated Memoir of 1806;
that “ the mode of action by which the effects take place
is stated very generally, so generally, indeed, that pro­
bably a dozen precise schemes of electro-chemical action
might be drawn up, differing essentially from each other,
yet all agreeing with the statement there given.” When
Davy and others proceeded to give a little more defi­
niteness and precision to the statement of their views,
they soon introduced into the theory features which it
was afterwards found necessary to abandon. Thusf
both Davy, Grotthus, Riffault, and Chomprd, ascribed
electrical decomposition to the action of the poles, and
some of them even pretended to assign the proportion
in which the force of the pole diminishes as the distance
from it increases. Faraday, as I have already stated,
showed that the polarity must be considered as residing
not only in what had till then been called the poles,
but at every point of the circuit. He ascribed| electro­
chemical decomposition to internal forces, residing in
the particles of the matter under decomposition, not to
external forces, exerted by the poles. Hence he shortly
afterwards §proposed to reject the word poles altogether,
and to employ instead, the term electrode, meaning the*
*
*
§
* Hist. Ind. Sci., B. xiv. c. ix. sect. 1.
+ See Faraday’s Historical Sketch, Researches, 481—492.
J Art 524.
§ In 1834. Ueventh Series of Researches. Art. 662.
Digitized by Googk
doors or passages (of whatever surface formed,) by which
the decomposed elements pass out. What have been
called the positive and negative poles he further termed
the anode and c
a
t
h
o
d
e;and he introduced some oth
changes in nomenclature connected with these. He
then, as I have related in the History*, invented the
Volta-electrometer, which enabled him to measure the
quantity of voltaic action, and this he found to be iden­
tical with the quantity of chemical affinity; and he was
thus led to the clearest view of the truth towards w’hich
he and his predecessors had so long been travelling,
that electrical and chemical forces are identical f.
7. It will, perhaps, be said that this beautiful train
of discovery was entirely due to experiment, and not to
any a priori conviction that co-existent polarities must
be connected. I trust I have sufficiently stated that
such an a priori principle could not be proved, nor even
understood, without a most laborious and enlightened
use of experiment; but yet I think that the doctrine
when once fully unfolded, exhibited clearly, and estab­
lished as true, takes possession of the mind with a more
entire conviction of its certainty and universality, in
virtue of the principle we are now considering. When
the theory has assumed so simple a form, it appears to
derive immense probability (to say the least) from its
simplicity. Like the laws of motion, when stated in its
most general form, it appears to carry with it its own
evidence. And thus this great theory borrows some­
thing of its character from the Ideas which it involves,
as well as from the Experiments by which it was esta­
blished.
8. We may find in many of Mr. Faraday’s subsequent
reasonings, clear evidence that this idea of the connex­
ion of polarities, as nowr developed, is not limited in its
* Hist, hid. Sci., B. xlv. c. ix. sect 2. + Arts. 915, 916,917*
36G PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICO-CHEMICAL SCIENCES.
Digitized by Google
OF THE CONNEXION OF POLARITIES. 3 67
application to facts already known experimentally, but,
like other ideas, determines the philosopher’s researches
into the unknown, and gives us the foi'm of knowledge
even before we possess the matter. Thus, he says, in
his Thirteenth Series*, “ I have long sought, and still
seek, for an effect or condition which shall be to statical
electricity what magnetic force is to current electricity ;
for as the lines of discharge are associated with a cer­
tain transverse effect, so it appeared to me impossible
but that the lines of tension or of inductive action,
which of necessity precede the discharge, should also
have their correspondent transverse condition or effect.”
Other similar passages might be found.
I will now consider another case to which we may
apply the principle of connected polarities.
9. Connexion of Chemical and Crystalline Polari­
ties.— The close connexion between the chemical affinity
and the crystalline attraction of elements cannot be
overlooked. Bodies never crystallize but when their
elements combine chemically; and solid bodies which
combine, when they do it most completely and exactly,
also crystallize. The forces which hold together the ele­
ments of a crystal of alum are the same forces which
make it a crystal. There is no distinguishing between
the two sets of forces.
Both chemical and crystalline forces are polar, as we
stated in the last chapter; but the polarity in the two
cases is of a different kind. The polarity of chemical
forces is then put in the most distinct form, when it is
identified with electrical polarity; the polarity of the
particles of crystals has reference to their geometrical
form. And it is clear that these two kinds of polarity
must be connected. Accordingly, Berzelius expressly
assertsf the necessary identity of these two polarities.
• Art. 1658. t Essay on Chemical Prop., 113.
Digitized by Googk
3 6 8 PHILOSOPHY OF t h e m ec h a n ic o -c h e m ic a l sciences.
“ The regular forms of bodies suppose a polarity which
can be no other than an electric or magnetic polarity.”
This being so seemingly inevitable, we might expect to
find the electric forces manifesting some relation to the
definite directions of crystalline forms. Mr. Faraday
tried, but in vain, to detect some such relation. He
attempted to ascertain* whether a cube of rock crystal
transmitted the electrical force of tension with different
intensity along and across the axis of the crystal. In
the first specimen there seemed to be some difference;
but in other experiments, made both with rock crystal
and with calc spar, this difference disappeared. Al­
though therefore we may venture to assert that there
must be some very close connexion between electrical
and crystalline forces, we are, as yet, quite ignorant
w’hat the nature of the connexion is, and in what kind
of phenomena it will manifest itself.
10. Connexion of Crystalline and Optical Polarities.
—Crystals present to us optical phenomena which have
a manifestly polar character. The double refraction,
both of uniaxal and of biaxal crystals, is always accom­
panied with opposite polarization of the two rays; and
in this and in other ways light is polarized in directions
dependent upon the axes of the crystalline form, that is,
on the directions of the polarities of the crystalline par­
ticles. The identity of these two kinds of polarity (cry­
stalline and optical) is too obvious to need insisting on ;
and it is not necessary for us here to decide by what
hypothesis this identity may most properly be repre­
sented. We may hereafter perhaps find ourselves jus­
tified in considering the crystalline forces as determining
the elasticity of the luminiferous ether to be different
in different directions within the crystal, and thus as
determining the refraction and polarization of the light
* Researches, Art. 1689.
Digitized by Google
OF THE CONNEXION OF POLARITIES. 3 6 9
which the crystal transmits. But at present we merely
note this case as an additional example of the manifest
connexion and fundamental identity of two co-existent
polarities.
11. Connexion qf Polarities in general.—Thus we
find that the connexion of different kinds of polarities,
magnetic, electric, chemical, crystalline, and optical, is
certain as a truth of experimental science. We have
attempted to show further that in the minds of several
of the most eminent discoverers and philosophers, such
a conviction is something more than a mere empirical
result: it is a principle which has regulated their re­
searches while it was still but obscurely seen and imper­
fectly unfolded, and has given to their theories a charac­
ter of generality and self-evidence which experience
alone cannot bestow.
It will, perhaps, be said that these doctrines,—that
scientific researches may usefully be directed by prin­
ciples in themselves vague and obscure;—that theories
may have an evidence superior to and anterior to expe­
rience ;—are doctrines in the highest degree dangerous,
and utterly at variance with the soundest maxims of
modern times respecting the cultivation of science.
To the justice and wisdom of this caution I entirely
agree: and although I have shown that this principle of
the connexion ofpolarities, rightly interpreted and esta­
blished in each case by experiment, involves profound
and comprehensive truths; I think it no less important
to remark that, at least in the present stage of our
knowledge, we can make no use of this principle with­
out taking care, at every step, to determine by clear and
decisive experiments, its proper meaning and applica­
tion. All endeavours to proceed otherwise have led,
and must lead, to ignorance and confusion. Attempts
to deduce from our bare idea of polarity, and our fun-
vol i. w. p. B B
Digitized by Google
damental convictions respecting the connexion of polari­
ties, theories concerning the forces which really exist in
nature, can hardly have any other result than to bewilder
men’s minds, and to misdirect their efforts.
So far, indeed, as this persuasion of a connexion
among apparently different kinds of agencies, impels
men, engaged in the pursuit of knowledge, to collect
observations, to multiply, repeat, and vary experiments,
and to contemplate the result of these in all aspects
and relations, it may be an occasion of the most impor­
tant discoveries. Accordingly we find that the great
laws of phenomena which govern the motions of the
planets about the sun, were first discovered by Kepler,
in consequence of his scrutinizing the recorded observa­
tions with an intense conviction of the existence of geo­
metrical and arithmetical harmonies in the solar system.
Perhaps we may consider the discovery of the connexion
of magnetism and electricity by Professor CErsted in
1820, as an example somewhat of the same kind; for
he also was a believer in certain comprehensive but un­
defined relations among the properties of bodies; and
in consequence of such views entertained great admira­
tion for the Prologue to the Chemistry qf the Nineteenth
Century, of Winterl, already mentioned. M. CErsted, in
1803, published a summary of this work; and in so do­
ing, praised the views of Winterl as far more profound
and comprehensive than those of Lavoisier. Soon after­
wards a Review of this publication appeared in France *,
in which it was spoken of as a work only fit for the
dark ages, and as the indication of a sect which had
for some time “ ravaged Germany,” and inundated that
country with extravagant and unintelligible mysticism.
It was, therefore, a kind of triumph to M. CErsted to
be, after some years’ labour, the author of one of the
* Ann. Chim.y Tom. l. (1804), p. 191.
870 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICO-CHEMICAL SCIENCES.
Digitized by Google
most remarkable and fertile physical discoveries of his
time.
12. It was not indeed without some reason that cer­
tain of the German philosophers were accused of dealing
in doctrines vast and profound in their aspect, but, in
reality, indefinite, ambiguous, and inapplicable. And
the most prominent of such doctrines had reference to
the principle now under our consideration; they repre­
sented the properties of bodies as consisting in certain
polarities, and professed to deduce, from the very nature
of things, with little or no reference to experiment, the
existence and connexion of these polarities. Thus Schel­
ling, in his Ideas towards a Philosophy of , pub­
lished in 1803, says*, “ Magnetism is the universal act
of investing Multiplicity with Unity; but the universal
form of the reduction of Multiplicity to Unity is the
Line, pure Longitudinal Extension: hence Magnetism
is determination of pure Longitudinal Extension; and
as this manifests itself by absolute Cohesion, Magnetism
is the determination of absolute Cohesion.” And as
Magnetism was, by such reasoning, conceived to be
proved as a universal property of matter, Schelling as­
serted it to be a confirmation of his views when it was
discovered that other bodies besides iron are magnetic.
In like manner he used such expressions as the follow-
ingf: “ The threefold character of the Universal, the
Particular, and the Indifference of the two,—as ex­
pressed in their Identity, is Magnetism, as expressed
in their Difference, is Electricity, and as expressed in
the Totality, is Chemical Process. Thus these forms
are only one form; and the Chemical Process is a mere
transfer of the three Points of Magnetism into the Tri­
angle of Chemistry.”
It was very natural that the chemists should refuse
• P. 228. + P. 486.
B B 2
OF THE CONNEXION OF POLARITIES. 371
Digitized by Googk
3 7 2 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICO-CHEMICAL SCIENCES.
to acknowledge, iu this fanciful and vague language,
(delivered, however, it is to be recollected, in 1803,) an
anticipation of Davy’s doctrine of the identity of electri­
cal and chemical forces, or of (Ersted’s electro-magnetic
agency. Yet it was perhaps no less natural that the
author of such assertions should look upon every great
step in the electro-chemical theory as an illustration
of his own doctrines. Accordingly we find Schelling
welcoming, with a due sense of their importance, the
discoveries of Faraday. When he heard of the experi­
ment in which electricity was produced from common
magnetism, he fastened with enthusiasm upon the dis­
covery, even before he knew any of its details, and pro­
claimed it at a public meeting of a scientific body* as
one of the most important advances of modern science.
We have (he thus reasoned) three effects of polar forces;
— electro-chemical Decomposition, electrical Action,
Magnetism. Volta and Davy had confirmed experimen­
tally the identity of the two former agencies: CErsted
showed that a closed voltaic circuit acquired magnetic
properties: but in order to exhibit the identity of elec­
tric and magnetic action it was requisite that electric
forces should be extricated from magnetic. This great
step Faraday, he remarked, had made, in producing the
electric spark by means of magnets.
13. Although conjectures and assertions of the kind
thus put forth by Schelling involve a persuasion of the
pervading influence and connexion of polarities, which
persuasion has already been confirmed in many instances,
they involve this principle in a manner so vague and
ambiguous that it can rarely, in such a form, be of
any use or value. Such views of polarity can never
teach us in what cases we are and in what we are not
to expect to find polar relations; and indeed tend rather
* Ueber Faraday's Neuesle Entdeckung. München. 1832.
Digitized by Googk
OF THE CONNEXION OF POLARITIES. 3 7 3
to diffuse error and confusion, than to promote know­
ledge. Accordingly we cannot be surprized to find such
doctrines put forward by their authors as an evidence of
the small value and small necessity of experimental
science. This is done by the celebrated metaphysician
Hegel, in his Encyclopaedia*. u Since,” says he, “the
plane of incidence and of reflection in simple reflection
is the same plane, when a second reflector is introduced
which further distributes the illumination reflected from
the first, the position of the first plane with respect to
the second plane, containing the direction of the first
reflection and of the second, has its influence upon the
position, illumination or darkening of the object as it
appears by the second reflection. This influence must
be the strongest when the two planes are what we must
call negatively related to each other:—that is, when
they are at right angles.” “ But,” he adds, “ when men
infer (as Malus has done) from the modification which
is produced by this situation, in the illumination of the
reflection, that the molecules of light in themselves,
that is, on their different sides, possess different physical
energies; and when on this foundation, along with the
phenomena of entoptical colours therewith connected, a
wide labyrinth of the most complex theory is erected;
we have then one of the most remarkable examples of
the inferences of physics from experiment.” If Hegel’s
reasoning prove anything, it must prove that polariza­
tion always accompanies reflection under such circum­
stances as he describes: yet all physical philosophers
know that in the case of metals, in which the reflection
is most complete, light is not completely polarized at
any angle; and that in other substances the polarization
depends upon various circumstances which show how
idle and inapplicable is the account he thus gives of the
* See. 278.
Digitized by Google
3 7 4 PHILOSOPHY OF THE MECHANICO-CHEMICAL SCIENCES.
property. His self-complacent remark about the infer­
ences of physics from experiment, is intended to recom­
mend by comparison his own method of considering the
nature of things in themselves; a mode of obtaining
physical truth which had been more than exhausted by
Aristotle, and out of which no new attempts have ex­
tracted anything of value since his time.
14. Thus the general conclusion to which we are led
on this subject is, that the persuasion of the existence
and connexion or identity of various polarities in nature,
although very naturally admitted, and in many cases
interpreted and confirmed by observed facts, is of itself)
so far as we at present possess it, a very insecure guide
to scientific doctrines. When it is allowed to dictate
our theories, instead of animating and extending our
experimental researches,it leads only to errour, confusion,
obscurity, and mysticism.
This Fifth Book, on the subject of Polarities, is a
short one compared with most of the others. This
arises in a great measure from the circumstance that the
Idea of Polarity has only recently been apprehended and
applied, with any great degree of clearness, among phy­
sical philosophers; and is even yet probably entertained
in an obscure and ambiguous manner by most experi­
mental inquirers. I have been desirous of not attempt­
ing to bring forward any doctrines upon the subject,
except such as have been fully illustrated and exemplified
by the acknowledged progress of the physical sciences.
If I had been willing to discuss the various speculations
which have been published respecting the universal pre­
valence of polarities in the universe, and their results in
every province of nature, I might easily have presented
this subject in a more extended form; but this would
not have been consistent with my plan of tracing the
influence of scientific ideas only so far as they have really
Digitized by Googk
OP THE CONNEXION OF POLARITIES. 375
aided in disclosing and developing scientific truths. And
as the influence of this idea is clearly distinguishable
both from those which precede and those which follow in
the character of the sciences to which it gives rise, and
appears likely to be hereafter of great extent and conse­
quence, it seemed better to treat of it in a separate
Book, although of a brevity disproportioned to the
rest.
Digitized by Googk
3 7 6
BOOK VI.
THE PH ILO SO PH Y OF CHEM ISTRY.
C h a p t e r I.
ATTEMPTS TO CONCEIVE ELEMENTARY
COMPOSITION.
1. We have now to bring into view, if possible, the
ideas and general principles which are involved in Che­
mistry,—the science of the composition of bodies. For in
this as in other parts of human knowledge, we shall find
that there are certain ideas, deeply seated in the mind,
though shaped and unfolded by external observation,
which are necessary conditions of the existence of such
a science. These ideas it is, which impel man to such
a knowledge of the composition of bodies, which give
meaning to facts exhibiting this composition, and uni­
versality to special truths discovered by experience.
These are the Ideas of Element and of Substance.
Unlike the idea of polarity, of which we treated in
the last Book, these ideas have been current in men’s
minds from very early times, and formed the subject of
some of the first speculations of philosophers. It hap­
pened however, as might have been expected, that in the
first attempts they were not clearly distinguished from
other notions, and were apprehended and applied in an
obscure and confused manner. We cannot better ex­
hibit the peculiar character and meaning of these ideas
than by tracing the form which they have assumed and
Digitized by Googk
CONCEPTION OF ELEMENTARY COMPOSITION. 377
the efficacy which they have exerted in these successive
essays. This, therefore, I shall endeavour to do, begin­
ning with the Idea of Element.
' 2. That bodies are composed or made up of certain
parts, elements, or principles, is a conception which has
existed in men’s minds from the beginning of the first
attempts at speculative knowledge. The doctrine of the
Four Elements, earth, air, fire and water, of which all
things in the universe were supposed to be constituted,
is one of the earliest forms in which this conception was
systematized; and this doctrine is stated by various
authors to have existed as early as the times of the
ancient Egyptians*. The words usually employed by
Greek writers to express these elements are apxn, a
cipleor beginning, and otoix/ iov, which probably meant
a letter (of a word) before it meant an element of a
compound. For the resolution of a word into its letters
is undoubtedly a remarkable instance of a successful
analysis performed at an early stage of man’s history;
and might very naturally supply a metaphor to denote
the analysis of substances into their intimate parts, when
men began to contemplate such an analysis as a subject
of speculation. The Latin word itself, though
by its form it appears to be a derivative abstract term,
comes from some root now obsolete; probablyf from a
word signifying to grow or spring up.
The mode in which elements form the compound
bodies and determine their properties was at first, as
might be expected, vaguely and variously conceived. It
will, I trust, hereafter be made clear to the reader that
* Gilbert’s Phys., L. i. c. iii.
t Vossius in voce. “ Conjecto esse ab autiqua voco eleo pro oleo,
id est cresco: a qua significations proles, suboles, adolesccns: ut ab
juratum, juramenium; ab adjutum, adjumenium: sic ab elelum,
elementum :
quia inde omnia crescunt ac nascuntur.”
Digitized by Google
378 PHILOSOPHY OF CHEMISTRY.
the relation of the elements to the compound involves a
peculiar and appropriate Fundamental Idea, not suscept­
ible of being correctly represented by any comparison or
combination of other ideas, and guiding us to clear and
definite results only when it is illustrated and nourished
by an abundant supply of experimental facts. But at first
the peculiar and special notion which is required in ajust
conception of the constitution of bodies was neither dis­
cerned nor suspected; and up to a very late period in the
history of chemistry, men went on attempting to appre­
hend the constitution of bodies more clearly by substi­
tuting for this obscure and recondite idea of Elementary
Composition, some other idea more obvious, more lumi­
nous, and more familiar, such as the ideas of Resem­
blance, Position, and mechanical Force. We shall briefly
speak of some of these attempts, and of the errours which
were thus introduced into speculations on the relations
of elements and compounds.
3. Compounds assumed to resemble their Elements.—
The first notion was that compounds derive their quali­
ties from their elements by resemblance:—they are hot
in virtue of a hot element, heavy in virtue of a heavy
element, and so on. In this way the doctrine of thefour
elements was framed; for every body is either hot or
cold, moist or dry; and by combining these qualities in
all possible ways, men devised four elementary sub­
stances, as has been stated in the History*.
This assumption of the derivation of the qualities of
bodies from similar qualities in the elements was, as we
shall see, altogether baseless and unphilosophical, yet it
prevailed long and universally. It was the foundation of
medicine for a long period, both in Europe and Asia;
disorders being divided into hot, cold, and the like; and
remedies being arranged according to similar distinctions.
* Hist. Ind Sci.y B. i. c. ii. sect. 2.
Digitized by Google
Many readers will recollect, perhaps, the story* of the
indignation which the Persian physicians felt towards the
European, when he undertook to cure the ill effects of
cucumber upon the patient, by means of mercurial medi­
cine: for cucumber, which is cold, could not be coun­
teracted, they maintained, by mercury, which in their
classification is cold also. Similar views of the operation
of medicines might easily be traced in our own country.
A moment's reflection may convince us that when drugs
of any kind are subjected to the chemistry of the
human stomach and thus made to operate on the human
frame, it is utterly impossible to form the most remote
conjecture what the result will be from any such vague
notions of their qualities as the common use of our
senses can give. And in like manner the common ope­
rations of chemistry give rise in almost every instance
to products which bear no resemblance to the materials
employed. The results of the furnace, the alembic, the
mixture, frequently have no visible likeness to the
ingredients operated upon. Iron becomes steel by the
addition of a little charcoal; but what visible trace of
the charcoal is presented by the metal thus modified ?
The most beautiful colours are given to glass and
earthenware by minute portions of the ores of black or
dingy metals, as iron and manganese. The worker in
metal, the painter, the dyer, the vintner, the brewer,
all the artisans in short who deal with practical che­
mistry, are able to teach the speculative chemist that
it is an utter mistake to expect that the qualities of the
elements shall be still discoverable, in an unaltered form,
in the compound. This first rude notion of an element,
that it determines the properties of bodies by resem­
blance, must be utterly rejected and abandoned before
* See Hadji Baba.
CONCEPTION OF ELEMENTARY COMPOSITION. 3 7 9
Digitized by Google
380 PHILOSOPHY OF CHEMISTRY.
we can make any advance towards a true apprehension
of the constitution of bodies.
4. This step accordingly was made, when the hypo­
thesis of the four elements was given up, and the doc­
trine of the three Principles, Salt, Sulphur and Mercury,
was substituted in its place. For in making this change,
as I have remarked in the History*, the real advance
was the acknowledgment of the changes produced by
the chemist’s operations as results to be accounted for
by the union and separation of substantial elements,
however great the changes, and however unlike the
product might be to the materials. And this step once
made, chemists went on constantly advancing towards
a truer view of the nature of an element, and conse­
quently, towards a more satisfactory theory of chemical
operations.
6. Yet we may, I think, note one instance, even in
the works of eminent modern chemists, in which this
maxim, that we have no right to expect any resem­
blance between the elements and the compound, is lost
sight of. I speak of certain classifications of mineral
substances. Berzelius, in his System of Mineral Arrange­
ment, places sulphur next to the But surely
this is an errour, involving the ancient assumption of
the resemblance of elements and compounds; as if we
were to expect the sulphurets to bear a resemblance to
sulphur. All classifications are intended to bring toge­
ther things resembling each other: the sulphurets of
metals have certain general resemblances to each other
which make them a tolerably distinct, well determined,
class of bodies. But sulphur has no resemblances with
these, and no analogies with them, either in physical
or even in chemical properties. It is a simple body;
* Hist. Irid. ScL, B. iv. c. i.
Digitized by Google
CONCEPTION OF ELEMENTARY COMPOSITION. 381
and both its resemblances and its analogies direct us to
place it along with other simple bodies, (selenium, and
phosphorus,) which, united with metals, produce com­
pounds not very different from the sulphurets. Sulphur
cannot be, nor approach to being, a sulphuret; we must
not confound what it is with what it makes. Sulphur
has its proper influence in determining the properties of
the compound into which it enters; but it does not do
this according to resemblance of qualities, or according
to any principle which properly leads to propinquity in
classification.
6. Compounds assumed to be determined by the Figure
of Elements.— I pass over the fanciful modes ofrepresent­
ing chemical changes which were employed by the Alche­
mists; for these strange inventions did little in leading
men towards a juster view of the relations of elements to
compounds. I proceed for an instant to the attempt to
substitute another obvious conception for the still obscure
notion of elementary composition. It was imagined that
all the properties of bodies and their mutual operations
might be accounted for by supposing them constituted of
particles of various forms, round or angular, pointed or
hooked, straight or spiral. This is a very ancient hypo­
thesis, and a favourite one with many casual speculators
in all ages. Thus Lucretius undertakes to explain why
wine passes rapidly through a sieve and oil slowly, by
telling us that the latter substance has its particles either
larger than those of the other, or more hooked and inter­
woven together. And he accounts for the difference of
sweet and bitter by supposing the particles in the former
case to be round and smooth, in the latter sharp and
jagged*. Similar assumptions prevailed in modern times
on the revival of the mechanical philosophy, and consti­
tute a large part of the physical schemes of Descartes
* De Rerum Naiura, n. 890 sqq. *
Digitized by Google
38*2 PHILOSOPHY OF CHEMISTRY.
and Gassendi. They were also adopted to a considerable
extent by the chemists. Acids were without hesitation
assumed to consist of sharp pointed particles; which, “I
hope,” Lemery says*, “ no one will dispute, seeing every
One’s experience does demonstrate it : he needs but taste
an acid to be satisfied of it, for it pricks the tongue like
anything keen and finely cut.” Such an assumption is
not only altogether gratuitous and useless, but appears to
be founded in some degree upon a confusion in the meta­
phorical and literal use of such words as and sharp.
The assumption once made, it was easy to accommodate
it, in. a manner equally arbitrary, to other facts. “A
demonstrative and convincing proof that an acid does
consist of pointed parts is, that not only all acid salts do
crystallize into edges, but all dissolutions of different
things, caused by acid liquors, do assume this figure in
their crystallization. These crystals consist of points
differing both in length and bigness one from another,
and this diversity must be attributed to the keener or
blunter edges of the different sorts of acids: and so like­
wise this difference of the points in subtilty is the cause
that one acid can penetrate and dissolve with one sort of
mixt, that another can’t rarify at all: Thus vinegar dis­
solves lead, which aquafortis can’t : aquafortis dissolves
quicksilver, which vinegar will not touch; aqua regalis
dissolves gold, whenas aqua fortis cannot meddle with it;
on the contrary, aqua fortis dissolves silver, but can do
nothing with gold, and so of the rest.”
The leading fact of the vehement combination and
complete union of acid and alkali readily suggested a fit
form for the particles of the latter class of substances.
“ This effect,” Lemery adds, “ may make us reasonably
conjecture that an alkali is a terrestrious and solid mat­
ter whose forms are figured after such a manner that the
• ChemixiTyy p. 25.
Digitized by Googk
CONCEPTION OF ELEMENTARY COMPOSITION. 3 8 3
acid points entering in do strike and divide whatever
opposes their motion.” And in a like spirit are the spe­
culations in Dr. Mead’s Mechanical Account of Poisons
(1745). Thus he explains the poisonous effect of corro­
sive sublimate of mercury by saying* that the particles of
the salt are a kind of lamellae or blades to which the
mercury gives an additional weight. If resublimed with
three-fourths the quantity of mercury, it loses its corro­
siveness, (becoming calomel,) which arises from this, that
in sublimation “ the crystalline blades are divided every
time more and more by the force of the f i r e a n d “ the
broken pieces of the crystals uniting into little masses of
differing figures from their former make, those cutting
points are now so much smaller that they cannot make
wounds deep enough to be equally mischievous and
deadly: and therefore do only vellicate and twitch the
sensible membranes of the stomach.”
7. Among all this very fanciful and gratuitous assump­
tion we may notice one true principle clearly introduced,
namely, that the suppositions which we make respecting
the forms of the elementary particles of bodies and their
mode of combination must be such as to explain the facts
of crystallization, as well as of mere chemical change.
This principle we shall hereafter have occasion to insist
upon further.
I now proceed to consider a more refined form of
assumption respecting the constitution of bodies, yet still
one in which a vain attempt is made to substitute for the
peculiar idea of chemical composition a more familiar
mechanical conception.
8. Compounds assumed to be determined by theMecha­
nical Attraction of the E
l
e
m
e
n
t
s
.— When, in consequence
of the investigations and discoveries of Newton and his
predecessors, the conception of mechanical force had
• P. 190.
Digitized by Google
3 8 4 PHILOSOPHY OF CHEMISTRY.
become clear and familiar, so far as the action of exter­
nal forces upon a body was concerned, it was very natural
that the mathematicians who had pursued this train of
speculation should attempt to apply the same conception
to that mutual action of the internal parts of a body by
which they are held together. Newton himself had
pointed the way to this attempt. In the Preface to the
Principia, after speaking of what he has done in calcu­
lating the effects of forces upon the planets, satellites,
See., he adds, “ Would it were permitted us to deduce the
other phenomena of nature from mechanical principles
by the same kind of reasoning. For many things move
me to suspect that all these phenomena depend upon
certain forces, by which the particles of bodies, through
causes not yet known, are either urged towards each
other, and cohere according to regular figures, or are
repelled and recede from each other; which forces being
unknown, philosophers have hitherto made their attempts
upon nature in vain.” The same thought is at a later
period followed out further in one of the Queries at the
end of the Opticks *. “ Have not the small particles of
bodies certain Powers, Virtues, or Forces, by which they
act at a distance, not only upon the rays of light for
reflecting, refracting and inflecting them, but also upon
one another for producing a great part of the phenomena
of nature?” And a little further on he proceeds to
apply this expressly to chemical changes. “ When Salt
of Tartar runs per deliquium [or as we now express it,
deliquesces] is not this done by an attraction between
the particles of the Salt of Tartar and the particles of
the water which float in the air in the form of vapours ?
And why does not common salt, or saltpetre, or vitriol,
run per deliquium, but for want of such an attraction ? or
why does not Salt of Tartar draw more water out of the
* Query 31.
Digitized by Googk
air than in a certain proportion to its quantity, but for
waDt of an attractive force after it is saturated with
water?” He goes on to put a great number of similar
cases, all tending to the same point, that chemical com­
binations cannot be conceived in any other way than as
an attraction of particles.
9. Succeeding speculators in his school attempted ta
follow out this view. Dr. Frend, of Christ Church, in
1710, published his Preelections in
owns fere Operationes Chymicce ad tera Principia
ex ipsius Naturae Legibus rediguntur. Oxonii habitce.
This book is dedicated to Newton, and in the dedication,
¿liepromise of advantage to chemistry from the influence
of the Newtonian discoveries is spoken of somewhat
largely,—much more largely, indeed, than has yet been
justified by the sequel. After declaring in strong terms
that the only prospect of improving science consists in
following the footsteps of Newton, the author adds,
“That force of attraction, of which you first so success­
fully traced the influence in the heavenly bodies, ope­
rates in the most minute corpuscles, as you long ago
hinted in your Principia, and have lately plainly shown
in your Opticks; and this force we are only just begin­
ning to perceive and to study. Under these circum­
stances I have been desirous of trying what is the result
of this view in chemistry.” The work opens formally
enough, with a statement of general mechanical prin­
ciples, of which the most peculiar are these:—That
there exists an attractive force by which particles when
at very small distances from each other, are drawn to-r
gether;-—that this force is different, according to the
different figure and density of the particles;—that the
force may be greater on one side of a particle than on
the other;—that the force by which particles cohere
together arises from attraction, and is variously modi-
vo l. I. w. p. C c
CONCEPTION OF ELEMENTARY COMPOSITION. 583-
Digitized by Googk
S86 PHILOSOPHY OF CHEMISTBY.
fied according to the quantity of contacts.” But these
principles are not applied in any definite manner to the
explanation of specific phenomena. He attempts, in­
deed, the question of special solvents*. Why does
fortis dissolve silver and not gold, while aqua regia
dissolves gold and not silver? which, he says, is the
most difficult question in chemistry, and which is cer­
tainly a fundamental question in the formation of che­
mical theory. He solves it by certain assumptions
respecting the forces of attraction of the particles, and
also the diameter of the particles of the acids and the
pores of the metals, all which suppositions are gratuitous.
10. We may observe further, that by speaking, as I
have stated that he does, of the figure of particles, he
mixes together the assumption of the last section with
the one which we are considering in this. This com­
bination is very unphilosophical, or, to say the least,
very insufficient, since it makes a new hypothesis neces­
sary. If a body be composed of cubical particles, held
together by their mutual attraction, by what force are
the parts of each cube held together? In order to un­
derstand their structure, we are obliged again to assume
a cohesive force of the second order, binding together
the particles of each particle. And therefore Newton
himself saysf, very justly, “ The parts of all homogeneal
hard bodies which fully touch each other, stick together
very strongly: and for explaning how this is, some have
invented hooked atoms, which is begging the .”
For (he means to imply,) how do the parts of the hook
stick together ?
The same remark is applicable to all hypotheses in
which particles of a complex structure are assumed as
the constituents of bodies: for while we suppose bodies
and their known properties to result from the mutual
* P. 54. + Opticks, p. 364.
Digitized by Googk
CONCEPTION OF ELEMENTARY COMPOSITION. ÎJ87
actions of these particles, we are compelled to suppose
the parts of each particle to be held together by forces
still more difficult to conceive, since they are disclosed
only by the properties of these particles, which as yet
are unknown. Yet Newton himself has not abstained
from such hypotheses: thus he says*, “ A particle of a
salt may be compared to a chaos, being dense, hard, dry,
and earthy in the center, and moist and watery in the
circumference.”
Since Newton’s time the use of the term ,
as expressing the cause of the union of the chemical
elements of bodies, has been familiarly continued; and
has, no doubt, been accompanied in the minds of many
persons with an obscure notion that chemical attraction
is, in some way, a kind of mechanical attraction of the
particles of bodies. Yet the doctrine that chemical “ at­
traction” and mechanical attraction are forces of the
same kind has never, so far as I am aware, been worked
out into a system of chemical theory; nor even applied
with any distinctness as an explanation of any particular
chemical phenomena. Any such attenpt, indeed, could
only tend to bring more clearly into view the entire
inadequacy of such a mode of explanation. For the
leading phenomena of chemistry are all of such a nature
that no mechanical combination can serve to express
them, without an immense accumulation of additional
hypotheses. If we take as our problem the changes of
colour, transparency, texture, taste, odour, produced by
small changes in the ingredients, how can we expect to
give a mechanical account of these, till we can give
a mechanical account of colour, transparency, texture,
taste, odour, themselves? And if our mechanical hypo­
thesis of the elementary constitution of bodies does not
explain such phenomena as those changes, what can it
■ • Oplicks, p. 362.
C C 2
Digitized by Google
3 8 8 PHILOSOPHY OF CHEMISTRY.
explain, or what can be the value of it ? I do not here
insist upon a remark which will afterwards come before
us, that even crystalline form, a phenomenon of a far
more obviously mechanical nature than those just al­
luded to, has never yet been in any degree explained by
such assumptions as this, that bodies consist of elemen­
tary particles exerting forces of the same nature as the
central forces which we contemplate in Mechanics.
When therefore Newton asks, “ When some stones,
as spar of lead, dissolved in proper menstruums, become
salts, do not these things show that salts are dry earth
and watery acid united by we may answer,
that this mode of expression appears to be intended to
identify chemical combination with mechanical attrac­
tion;—that there would be no objection to any such
identification, if we could, in that way, explain, or even
• classify well, a collection of chemical facts; but that
this has never yet been done by the help of such expres­
sions. Till some advance of this kind can be pointed
out, we must necessarily consider the power which pro­
duces chemical combination as a peculiar principle, a
special relation of the elements, not rightly expressed in
mechanical terms. And we now proceed to consider
this relation under the name by which it is most fami­
liarly known.
Chapter II.
ESTABLISHMENT AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE
IDEA OF CHEMICAL AFFINITY.
1. The earlier chemists did not commonly involve
themselves in the confusion into which the mechanical
philosophers ran, of comparing chemical to mechanical
forces. Their attention was engaged, and their ideas
Digitized by Googk
IDEA OP CHEMICAL AFFINITY. 3 8 9
were moulded, by their own pursuits. They saw that
the connexion of elements and compounds with which
they had to deal, was a peculiar relation which must be
studied directly; and which must be understood, if un­
derstood at all, in itself, and not by comparison with a
different class of relations. At different periods Of the
progress of chemistry, the conception of this relation,
still vague and obscure, was expressed in various man­
ners; and at last this conception was clothed in tole­
rably consistent phraseology, and the principles which it
involved were, by the united force of thought and expe­
riment, brought into view.
2. The power by which the elements of bodies com­
bine chemically, being, as we have seen, a peculiar agency,
different from mere mechanical connexion or attraction,
it is desirable to have it designated by a distinct and
peculiar name; and the term Affinity has been employed
for that purpose by most modern chemists. The word
“ affinity” in common language means, sometimes resem­
blance, and sometimes relationship and ties of family.
It is from the latter sense that the metaphor is bor­
rowed when we speak of “ chemical affinity.” By the
employment of this term we do not indicate resem­
blance, but disposition to unite. Using the word in a
common unscientific manner, we might say that chlo­
rine, bromine, and iodine, have a great natural affinity
•with each other, for there are considerable resemblances
and analogies among them; but these bodies have very
little chemical affinity for each other. The use of the
word in the former sense, of resemblance, can be traced
in earlier chemists; but it does not appear to have
acquired its peculiar chemical meaning till after Boer*
haave’s time. Boerhaave, however, is the writer in
whom we first find a due apprehension of the peculiar­
ity and importance of the Idea which it now expresses.
Digitized by Googk
390 PHILOSOPHY OF CHEMISTRY.
When we make a chemical solution*, he says, not only
are the particles of the dissolved body separated from
each other, but they are closely united to the particles
of the solvent. When aquaregia dissol
not see, he says to his hearers, that there must be be­
tween each particle of the solvent and of the metal, a
mutual virtue by which each loves, unites with, and
holds the other ( a
m
a
t,unit, retinet) ? The opinion
viously prevalent had been that the solvent merely
separates the parts of the body dissolved: and most
philosophers had conceived this separation as performed
by mechanical operations of the particles, resembling,
for instance, the operation of wedges breaking up a
block of timber. But Boerhaave forcibly and earnestly
points out the insufficiency of the conception. This, he
says, does not account for what we see. We have not
only a separation, but a new combination. There is a
force by which the particles of the solvent associate to
themselves the parts dissolved, not a force by which
they repel and dissever them. We are here to imagine
not mechanical action, not violent impulse, not antipathy,
but love, at least if love be the desire of uniting. (Non
igitur hie etiam actiones mechanic«, non propulsiones
violent«, non inimicitim cogitandm, sed amicitim, si amor
dicendus copul« cupido.) The novelty of this view is
evidenced by the mode in which he apologizes for intro­
ducing it. “ Fateor, paradoxa h«c assertio.” To Boer­
haave, therefore, (especially considering his great influ­
ence as a teacher of chemistry,) we may assign the
merit of first diffusing a proper view of Chemical Affinity
as a peculiar force, the origin of almost all chemical
changes and operations.
3. To Boerhaave is usually assigned also the credit
of introducing the rcoi'd “ affinity” among chemists; but
* Elementa Chemiee. Lugd. Bat 17351, p. 677-
Digitized by Google
IDEA OF CHEMICAL AFFINITY. 391
I do not find that the word is often used by him in this
sense ; perhaps not at all*. But however this may be,
the term is, on many accounts well worthy to be pre­
served, as I shall endeavour to show. Other terras were
used in the same sense during the early part of the
eighteenth century. Thus when Geoffroy, in 1718, laid
before the Academy of Paris his Tables of Affinities,
which perhaps did more than any other event to fix the
Idea of Affinity, he termed them “ Tables of the Rela­
tions of Bodies “ Tables des Rapports speaking
however, also, of their “ disposition to unite,” and using
other phrases of the same import.
The term a
t
t
r
a
c
t
i
o
n,having been recommended by
Newton as a fit word to designate the force which pro­
duces chemical combination, continued in great favour
in England, where the Newtonian philosophy was looked
upon as applicable to every branch of science. In
France, on the contrary, where Descartes still reigned
triumphant, “attraction,” the watch-word of the enemy,
was a sound never uttered but with dislike and suspi­
cion. In 1718 (in the notice of Geoffroy’s Tables,) the
Secretary of the Academy, after pointing out some of
the peculiar circumstances of chemical combinations, says,
“Sympathies and attractions would suit well here, if
* See D um as, Leçons de Phil. CAim., p. 364. Rees* Cyclopaedia,
Art. Chemistry*. In the passage of Boerhaave to which I refer above,
affUitax is rather opposed to, than identified w ith, chemical combina­
tion. W hen, he says, the parts of the body to be dissolved are disse­
vered b y the solvent, w h y do they remain united to the particles of the
solvent, and w hy do not rather both the particles of the solvent and of
the dissolved body collect into homogeneous bodies by their affinity ?
“ denuo se affinitate suœ naturæ colligant in corpora homogénea?1
’ And
the answer is, because they possess another force which counteracts
this affinity of homogeneous particles, and makes compounds of dif­
ferent elements. A ffinity, in chemistry, now means the tendency of
different kinds of matter to unite : but it appears, as I have said, to
have acquired this sense since Boerhaave's tim e.
Digitized by Googk
392 PHILOSOPHY OP CHEMISTRY.
there Were such things.” “ Les sympathies, les attrac­
tions conviendroient bien ici, si elles étaient quelque
chose.” And at a later period, in 1731, having to write
the éloge of Geoffroy after his death, he says, “ He gave,
in 1718, a singular system, and a Table of Affinities, or
Relations of the different substances in chemistry. These
affinities gave uneasiness to some persons, who feared
that they were attractions in , and all the more
dangerous in consequence of the seductive forms which
clever people have contrived to give them. It was found
in the sequel that this scruple might be got over.”
This is the earliest published instance, so far as I am
aware, in which the word “affinity” is distinctly used
for the cause of chemical composition ; and taking into
account the circumstances, the word appears to have
been adopted in France in order to avoid the word
attraction, which had the taint of Newtonianism. Ac­
cordingly we find the word affinité employed in the
works of French chemists from this time. Thus, in the
Transactions of the French Academy for 1746, in a
paper of Macquer’s upon Arsenic, he says*, “On peut
facilement rendre raison de ces phénomènes par le moyen
des affinités que les différens substances qui entrent
dans ces combinaisons, ont les uns avec les autres :” and
he proceeds to explain the facts by reference to Geof-
froy’s Table. And in Macquer’s Elements cf Chemistry,
which appeared a few years later, the “ affinity of com-*
position” is treated of as a leading part of the subject,
much in the same way as has been practised in such
books up to the present time. From this period, the
word appears to have become familiar to all European
chemists in the sense of which we are now speaking.
Thus, in the year 1758, the Academy of Sciences at
Rouen offered a prize for the best dissertation on Affinity.
♦ A. P. 174«, p. 201.
Digitized by Google
IDEA OP CHEMICAL AFFINITY. 3 9 3
The prize was shared between M. Limbourg of Theux,
near Liege, and M. Le Sage of Geneva*. About the
same time other persons (Manherrf, Nicolai}, and others)
wrote on the same subject, employing the same name.
Nevertheless, in 1775, the Swedish chemist Bergman,
pursuing still further this subject of Chemical Affinities,
and the expression of them by means of Tables, returned
again to the old Newtonian term; and designated the
disposition of a body to combine with one rather than
another of two others as elective attraction. And as his
work on Elective Attractions had great circulation and
great influence, this phrase has obtained a footing by the
side of Affinity, and both one and the other are now in
common use among chemists.
4. I have said above that the term Affinity is worthy
of being retained as a technical term. If we use the
word attraction in this case, we identify or compare
chemical with mechanical attraction; from which iden­
tification and comparison, as I have already remarked,
no one has yet been able to extract the means of ex­
pressing any single scientific truth. If such an identi­
fication or comparison be not intended, the use of the
same word in two different senses can only lead to con­
fusion ; and the proper course, recommended by all the
best analogies of scientific history, is to adopt a peculiar
term for that peculiar relation on which chemical com­
position depends. The word affinity, even if it were
not rigorously proper according to its common meaning,
still, being simple, familiar, and well established in this
very usage, is much to be preferred before any other.
But further, there are some analogies drawn frohi
• Thomson’s Chemistry, in . 10. Limbourg’s Dissertation was
published at Liege, in 1761; and Le Sage’s at Geneva.
+ Dissertatio de Affinitale CorporumYindob. 1762.
J Progr. I. II. de Affinitale Corporum Chimica. Jen. 1776, 1776,
Digitized by Google
394 PHILOSOPHY OF CHEMISTRY.
the common meaning of this word, which appear to
recommend it as suitable for the office which it has to
discharge. For common mechanical attractions and re­
pulsions, the forces by which one body considered as a
whole acts upon another external to it, are, as we have
said, to be distinguished from those more intimate ties
by which the parts of each body are held together. Now
this difference is implied, if we compare the former
relations, the attractions and repulsions, to alliances and
wars between states, and the latter, the internal union
of particles, to those bonds of affinity which connect the
citizens of the same state with one another, and especially
to the ties of family. We have seen that Boerhaave
compares the union of two elements of a compound to
their marriage; “ we must allow,” says an eminent
chemist of our own time*, “that there is some truth
in this poetical comparison.” It contains this truth,—
that the two become one to most intents and pur­
poses, and that the unit thus formed (the family) is not
a mere juxtaposition of the component parts. And
thus the Idea of Affinity as the peculiar principle of
chemical composition, is established among chemists,
and designated by a familiar and appropriate name.
5. Analysis is possible.—We must, however, endea­
vour to obtain a further insight into this Idea, thus
fixed and named. We must endeavour to extricate, if
not from the Idea itself, from the processes by which it
has obtained acceptation and currency among chemists,
some principles which may define its application, some
additional specialities in the relations which it implies.
This we shall proceed to do.
The Idea of Affinity, as already explained, implies a
disposition to combine. But this combination is to be
understood as admitting also of a possibility of separa-
• Dumas, Lectms dc P h il.C h im p.3t>3.
Digitized by Google
IDEA OF CHEMICAL AFFINITY. 395
tion. Synthesis implies Analysis as conceivable: or to
recur to the image which we have already used, Divorce
is possible when the Marriage has taken place.
That there is this possibility, is a conviction implied
in all the researches of chemists, ever since the true
notion of composition began to predominate in their
investigations. One of the first persons who clearly ex­
pressed this conviction was Mayow, an English physician,
who published his Medico-Physical Tracts in 1674.
The first of them De Sale-Nitro et Spiritu Nitro-Aerio,
contains a clear enunciation of this principle. After
showing how, in the combinations of opposite elements,
as acid and alkali, their properties entirely disappear,
and a new substance is formed not at all resembling
either of the ingredients, he adds*, “ Although these
8alts thus mixed appear to be destroyed, it is still pos­
sible for them to be separated from each other, with
their powers still entire.” He proceeds to exemplify
this, and illustrates it by the same image which I have
already alluded to : “ Salia acida a salibus volatilibus
disceduut, ut cum sale fixo tartari, tanquam spottso
magis idoneo, conjugium strictius ineunt.” This idea of
a synthesis which left a complete analysis still possible,
was opposed to a notion previously current, that when
two heterogeneous bodies united together and formed a
third body, the two constituents were entirely destroyed,
and the result formed out of their ruinsf. And this
conception of synthesis and analysis, as processes which
are possible successively and alternately, and each of
which supposes the possibility of the other, has been
the fundamental and regulative principle of the opera­
tions and speculations of analytical chemistry from the
time of Mayow to the present day.
6. Affinity is elective.—When the idea of chemical
* Cap. xiv., p. 233. t Thomson’s Chemistry, in. 8.
Digitized by Googk
affinity, or disposition to unite, was brought into view bv
the experiments and reasonings of chemists, they found
it necessary to consider this disposition as elective;—
each element chose one rather than another of the ele­
ments which were presented to it, and quitted its union
with one to unite with another which it preferred. This
has already appeared in the passage just quoted from
Mayow. He adds in the same strain, “ I have no doubt
that fixed salts choose one acid rather than another, in
order that they may coalesce with it in a more intimate
union.”— “Nullus dubito salia fixa acidum unum prae
aliis eligere, ut cum eodem arctiore unione coalescant.”
The same thought is expressed and exemplified by other
chemists: they notice innumerable cases in which, when
an ingredient is combined with a liquid, if a new sub­
stance be immersed which has a greater affinity for the
liquid, the liquid combines with the new substance by
election, and the former ingredient is precipitated. Thus
Stahl says*, “ In spirit of nitre dissolve silver; put in
copper and the silver is thrown down; put in iron and
the copper goes down; put in zinc, the iron precipitates;
put in volatile alkali, the zinc is separated; put in fixed
alkali, the volatile quits its hold.”—As may be seen in
this example, we have in such cases, not only a prefer­
ence, but a long gradation of preferences. The spirit of
nitre will combine with silver, but it prefers copper;
prefers iron more; zinc still more; volatile alkali yet
more; fixed alkali the most.
The same thing was proved to obtain with regard to
each element; and when this was ascertained, it became
the object of chemists to express these degrees of prefer­
ence, by lists in which substances were arranged accord­
ing to their disposition to unite with another substance.
In this manner was formed Geoffroy’s Table of Affinities
* Zymolcchma, 1097, p. 117*
396 p h il o s o p h y o f c h e m is t r y .
Digitized by Googk
IDEA OF CHEMICAL AFFINITY. 3 9 7
(1718), which we have already mentioned. This Table
was further improved by other writers, as Gellert (1751)
and Limbourg (1761). Finally Bergman improved
these Tables still further, taking into account not only
the order of affinities of each element for others, but
the sumof the tendencies to unite of each two elements,
which sum, he held, determined the resulting combina­
tion when several elements were in contact with each
other.
7. As we have stated in the History4
*, when the doc­
trine of elective affinities had assumed this very definite
and systematic form, it was assailed by Berthollet, who
maintained, in his Essai de Statique Chimique, (1803,)
that chemical affinities are not elective:—that, when
various elements are brought together, their combina­
tions do not depend upon the kind of elements alone,
but upon the quantity of each which is present, that
which is most abundant always entering most largely
into the resulting compounds. It may seem strange
that it should be possible, at so late a period of the
science, to throw doubt upon a doctrine which had pre­
sided over and directed its progress so long. Proust
answered Berthollet, and again maintained that chemi­
cal affinity is elective. I have, in the History’, given the
judgment of Berzelius upon this controversy. “Ber­
thollet,” he says, “ defended himself with an acuteness
which makes the reader hesitate in his judgment; but
the great mass of facts finally decided the point in
favour of Proust.” I may here add the opinion pro­
nounced upon this subject by Dr. Turnerf. “ Bergman
erred in supposing the result of the chemical action to
be in every case owing to elective affinity [for this power
is modified in its effects by various circumstances]: but
• Hisl. Ind. ScLf B. xiv. c. iii.
t Chemistry, p. 199. Ctli edition.
Digitized by Googk
3 9 8 PHILOSOPHY OF CHEMISTRY.
Berthollet ran into the opposite extreme in declaring
that the effects formerly ascribed to that power are
never produced by it. That chemical attraction is ex­
erted between different bodies with different degrees of
energy, is, I apprehend, indisputable.” And he then
proceeds to give many instances of differences in affinity
which cannot be accounted for by the operation of any
modifying causes. Still more recently, M. Dumas has
taken a review of this controversy; and, speaking with
enthusiasm of the work of Berthollet, as one which had
been of inestimable service to himself in his early study
of chemistry, he appears at first disposed to award to
him the victory in this dispute. But his final verdict
leaves undamaged the general principle now under our
consideration, that chemical affinity is elective. “ For
my own part,” he says*, “ I willingly admit the notions
of Berthollet when we have to do with acids or with
bases, of which the energy is nearly equal: but when
bodies endued with very energetic affinities are in pre­
sence of other bodies of which the affinities are very
feeble, I propose to adopt the following rule: In a solu­
tion, everything remaining dissolved, the strong affinities
satisfy themselves, leaving the weak affinities to arrange
matters with one another. The strong acids take the
strong bases, and the weak acids can only unite with the
weak bases. The known facts are perfectly in accord­
ance with this practical rule.” It is obvious that this
recognition of a distinction between strong and weak
affinities, which operates to such an extent as to deter­
mine entirely the result, is a complete acknowledgement
of the elective nature of affinity, as far as any person
acquainted with chemical operations could contend for
it. For it must be allowed by all, that solubility, and
other collateral circumstances, influence the course of
* Leqons de Philosophic Chimique, p. 386,
Digitized by Google
IDEA OF CHEMICAL AFFINITY. 399
chemical combinations, since they determine whether
or not there shall take place that contact of elements
without which affinity cannot possibly operate.
8. Affinity is Definite as to quantity.—In proportion
as chemists obtained a clearer view of the products of
the laboratory as results of the composition of elements,
they saw more and more clearly that these results were
definite; that one element not only preferred to combine
with another of a certain kind, but also would combine
with it to a certain extent and no further, thus giving to
the result not an accidental and variable, but a fixed
and constant character. Thus salts being considered as
the result of the combination of two opposite principles,
acid and alkali, and being termed neutral when these
principles exactly balanced each other, Rouelle (who
was Royal Professor at Paris in 1742,) admits of neu­
tral salts with excess of acid, neutral salts with excess
of base, and perfect neutral salts. Beaume maintained*
against him that there were no salts except those per­
fectly neutral, the other classes being the results of mix­
ture and imperfect combination. But this question was
not adequately treated till chemists made every experi­
ment with the balance in their hands. When this was
done, they soon discovered that, in each neutral salt, the
proportional weights of the ingredients which composed
it were always the same. This was ascertained by Wen­
zel, whose Doctrine of the Affinities of Bodies appeared
in 1777. He not only ascertained that the proportions
of elements in neutral chemical compounds are definite,
but also that they are reciprocal; that is, that if a , a
certain weight of a certain acid, neutralize m, a certain
weight of a certain base, and b , a certain weight of a.
certain other acid, neutralize n, a certain weight of a
certain other base; the compound of a a and n will also
- * Dumas, Phil. C h im p. ]98<
Digitized by Google
400 PHILOSOPHY OF CHEMISTRY.
be neutral; as also that of b and The same views
were again presented by Richter in 1792, in his Prin­
ciples of the Measure of Chemical Elements. And along
with these facts, that of the combination of elements in
multiple proportions being also taken into account, the
foundations of the Atomic Theory were laid; and that
Theory was propounded in 1803 by Mr. Dalton. That
theory, however, rests upon the Idea of Substance, as
well as upon that Idea of Chemical Affinity which we
are here considering; and the discussion of its evidence
and truth must be for the present deferred.
9. The two principles just explained,—that affinity
is definite as to the kind, and as to the quantity of the
elements which it unites,— have here been stated as
results of experimental investigation. That they could
never have been clearly understood, and therefore never
firmly established, without laborious and exact experi­
ments, is certain; but yet we may venture to say that
being once fully known, they possess an evidence beyond
that of mere experiment. For how, in fact, can we con­
ceive combinations, otherwise than as definite in kind and
quantity? If we were to suppose each element ready
to combine with any other indifferently, and indifferently
in any quantity, we should have a world in which all
would be confusion and indefiniteness. There would be
no fixed kinds of bodies; salts, and stones, and ores,
would approach to and graduate into each other by in­
sensible degrees. Instead of this, we know that the
world consists of bodies distinguishable from each other
by definite differences, capable of being classified and
named, and of having general propositions asserted con­
cerning them. And as we cannot conceive a world in
which this should not be the case, it would appear that
we cannot conceive a state of things in which the laws
of the combination of elements should not be of that
Digitized by Google
IDEA OF CHEMICAL AFFINITY. 401
definite and measured kind which we have above as­
serted.
This will, perhaps, appear more clearly by stating our
fundamental convictions respecting chemical composi­
tion in another form, which I shall, therefore, proceed
to do.
10. Chemical Composition determines Physical Pro-
perties.—However obscure and incomplete may be our
conception of the internal powers by which the ultimate
particles of bodies are held together, it involves, at least,
this conviction :—that these powers are what determine
bodies to be bodies, and therefore contain the reason of
all the properties which, as bodies, they possess. The
forces by which the particles of a body are held together,
also cause it to be hard or soft, heavy or light, opake
or transparent, black or red ; for if these forces are not
the cause of these peculiarities, what can be the cause ?
By the very supposition which we make respecting these
forces, they include all the relations by which the parts
are combined into a whole, and therefore they, and they
only, must determine all the attributes of the whole.
The foundation of all our speculations respecting the
intimate constitution of bodies must be this principle,
that their composition determines their properties.
Accordingly we find our chemists reasoning from this
principle with great confidence, even in doubtful cases.
Thus Davy, in his researches concerning the diamond,
says: “ That some chemical difference must exist between
the hardest and most beautiful of the gems and charcoal,
between a non-conductor and a conductor of electricity,
it is scarcely possible to doubt : and it seems reasonable
to expect that a very refined or perfect chemistry will
confirm the analogies of nature ; and show that bodies
cannot be the same in their composition or chemical
nature, and yet totally different in their chemical pro­
v o l . i. w. p. D D
Digitized by Google
402 PHILOSOPHY OF CHEMISTRY.
perties.” It is obvious that the principle here assumed
is so far from being a mere result of experience, that it
is here appealed to to prove that all previous results of
experience on this subject must be incomplete and inac­
curate; and that there must be some chemical differ­
ence between charcoal and diamond, though none had
hitherto been detected.
11. In what manner, according to what rule, the
chemical composition shall determine the kind of the
substance, we cannot reasonably expect to determine by
mere conjecture or assumption, without a studious ex­
amination of natural bodies and artificial compounds.
Yet even in the most recent times, and among men of
science, we find that an assumption of the most arbitrary
character has in one case been mixed up with this in­
disputable principle, that the elementary composition
determines the kind of the substance. In the classifica­
tion of minerals, one school of mineralogists have rightly
taken it as their fundamental principle that the chemi­
cal composition shall decide the position of the mineral
in the system. But they have appended to this principle,
arbitrarily and unjustifiably, the maxim that the element
which is largest in quantity shall fix the class of the
substance. To make such an assumption is to renounce,
at once, all hope of framing a system which shall be
governed by the resemblances of the things classified;
for how can we possibly know beforehand that fifty-five
per cent, of iron shall give a substance its predominant
properties, and that forty-five per cent, shall not ? Ac­
cordingly, the systems of mineralogical arrangement
which have been attempted in this way, (those of Haiiy,
Phillips, and others,) have been found inconsistent with
themselves, ambiguous, and incapable of leading to any
general truths.
12. Chemical Composition and Crystalline Form -
Digitized by Google
IDEA OF CHEMICAL AFFINITY. 403
respond.—Thus the physical properties of bodies depend
upon their chemical composition, but in a manner which
a general examination of bodies with reference to their
properties and their composition can alone determine.
We may, however, venture to assert further, that the
more definite the properties are, the more distinct may
we expect to find this dependence. Now the most
definite of the properties of bodies are those constant
properties which involve relations of space ; that is, their
figure. We speak not, however, of that external figure,
derived from external circumstances, which, so far from
being constant and definite, is altogether casual and arbi­
trary ; but of that figure which arises from their internal
texture, and which shows itself not only in the regular
forms which they spontaneously assume, but in the
disposition of the parts to separate in definite directions,
and no others. In short, the most definite of the pro­
perties of perfect chemical compounds is their crystalline
structure ; and therefore it is evident that the crystalline
structure of each body, and the forms which it affects,
* must be in a most intimate dependence upon its chemical
composition.
Here again we are led to the brink of another
theory ;—that of crystalline structure, which has excited
great interest among philosophers ever since the time of
Haiiy. But this theory involves, besides that idea of
chemical composition with which we are here concerned,
other conceptions, which enter into the relations of
figure. These conceptions, governed principally by the
idea of Symmetry, must be unfolded and examined before
we can venture to discuss any theory of crystallization :
and we shall proceed to do this as soon as we have
first duly considered the Idea of Substance and its con­
sequences.
DD 2
Digitized by Google
404 PHILOSOPHY OF CHEMISTRY.
C h a p t e r III.
OF THE IDEA OF SUBSTANCE.
1. Axiom of the Indestructibility of Substance.—We
now come to an Idea of which the history is very differ­
ent from those of which we have lately been speaking.
Instead of being gradually and recently brought into a
clear light, as has been the case with the Ideas of Polarity
and Affinity, the Idea of Substance has been entertained
in a distinct form from the first periods of European
speculation. That this is so, is proved by our finding a
principle depending upon this idea current as an axiom
among the early philosophers of Greece:— namely, that
nothing can be produced out of nothing. Such an axiom,
more fully stated, amounts to this: that the substance of
which a body consists is incapable of being diminished
(and consequently incapable of being augmented) in
quantity, whatever apparent changes it may undergo.
Its form, its distribution, its qualities, may vary, but the
substance itself is identically the same under all these
variations.
The axiom just spoken of was the great principle
of the physical philosophy of the Epicurean school, as
it must be of every merely material philosophy. The
reader of Lucretius will recollect the emphasis with
which it is repeatedly asserted in his poem:
E nilo nil gigni, in nilum nil posse reverti;
Nought comes of nought, nor ought returns to nought.
Those who engaged in these early attempts at physical
speculation were naturally much pleased with the clear­
ness which was given to their notions of change, compo­
sition, and decomposition, by keeping steadily hold of the
Idea of Substance, as marked by this fundamental axiom.
Nor has its authority ever ceased to be acknowledged.
Digitized by Googk
IDEA OF SUBSTANCE. 4 0 5
A philosopher was asked*, What is the weight of smoke ?
He answered, “ Subtract the weight of the ashes from
the weight of the wood which is burnt, and you have the
weight of the smoke.” This reply would be assented to
by all; and it assumes as incontestable that even under
the action of fire, the material, the substance, does not
perish, but only changes its form.
This principle of the indestructibility of substance
might easily be traced in many reasonings and researches,
ancient and modern. For instance, when the chemist
works with the r
e
t
o
r
t, he places the body on which he
operates in one part of an inclosed cavity, which, by its
bendings and communications, separates at the same
time that it confines, the products which result from
the action of fire: and he assumes that this process
is an analysis of the body into its ingredients, not a
creation of anything which did not exist before, or a
destruction of anything which previously existed. And
he assumes further, that the total quantity of the sub­
stance thus analyzed is the sum of the quantities of its
ingredients. This principle is the very basis of chemical
speculation, as we shall hereafter explain more fully.
2. The Idea of Substance.—The axiom above spoken
of depends upon the Idea of Substance, which is involved
in all our views of external objects. We unavoidably
assume that the qualities and properties which we observe
are properties of things \
;
—that the adjective imp
substantive;—that there is, besides the external charac­
ters of things, something ofwhich they are the characters.
An apple which is red, and round, and hard, is not merely
redness, and roundness, and hardness: these circum­
stances may all alter while the apple remains the same
apple. Behind or under the appearances which we see,
we conceive something of which we think; or, to use the
* Kant, Krilik. der R. V., p. 167.
Digitized by Googk
4 0 6 PHILOSOPHY OF CHEMISTRY.
metaphor which obtained currency among the ancient
philosophers, the attributes and qualities which we ob­
serve are supported by and inherent in something: and
this something is hence called a substratum or sub­
stance,—that which stands beneath the apparent quali­
ties and supports them.
That we have such an Idea, using the term “ Idea” in
the sense in which I have employed it throughout these
disquisitions, is evident from what has been already said.
The axiom of the indestructibility of substance proves
the existence ofthe Idea of Substance, just as the Axioms
of Geometry and Arithmetic prove the existence of the
Ideas of Space and Number. In the case of substance,
as of space or number, the ideas cannot be said to be
borrowed from experience, for the axioms have an au­
thority of a far more comprehensive and demonstrative
character than any which experience can bestow. The
axiom that nothing can be produced from nothing and
nothing destroyed, is so far from being a result of expe­
rience, that it is apparently contradicted by the most
obvious observation. It has, at first, the air of a paradox;
and by those who refer to it, it is familiarly employed to
show how fallacious common observation is. The asser­
tion is usually made in this form;—that nothing is
created and nothing annihilated, notwithstanding that
the common course of our experience appears to show
the contrary. The principle is not an empirical, but a
necessary and universal truth;—is collected, not from
the evidence of our senses, but from the operation of
our ideas. And thus the universal and undisputed au­
thority of the axiom proves the existence of the Idea of
Substance.
3. Locke's Denial of the Idea of Substance.—I shall
not attempt to review the various opinions which have
been promulgated respecting this Idea: but it may be
Digitized by Googk
IDEA OF SUBSTANCE. 407
worth our while to notice briefly the part which it played
in the great controversy concerning the origin of our ideas
which Locke’s Essay occasioned. Locke’s object was to
disprove the existence of all ideas not derived from Sen­
sation or Reflection: and since the idea of substance as
distinct from external qualities, is manifestly not derived
directly from sensation, nor by any very obvious or dis­
tinct process from reflection, Locke was disposed to
exclude the idea as much as possible. Accordingly, in
his argumentation against Innate Ideas*, he says plainly,
“ the idea of substance, which we neither have nor can
have by sensation or reflection.” And the inference
which he draws is, “ that we have no such clear idea at
all.” What then, it may be asked, do we mean by the
word substance? This also he answers, though some­
what strangely, “ We signify nothing by the word sub­
stance, but only an uncertain supposition of we know
not what, i. e., of something whereof we have no par­
ticular distinct positive idea, which we take to be the
substratum, or support, of those ideas we know.” That
while he indulged in this tautological assertion of our
ignorance and uncertainty, he should still have been
compelled to acknowledge that the word substance had
some meaning, and should have been driven to explain it
by the identical metaphors of “substratum ” and “ sup­
port,” is a curious proof how impossible it is entirely to
•reject this idea.
But as we have already seen, the supposition of the
existence of substance is so far from being uncertain, that
it carries with it irresistible conviction, and substance is
necessarily conceived as something which cannot be pro­
duced or destroyed. It may be easily supposed, therefore,
that when the controversy between Locke and his assail­
ants came to this point, he would be in some difficulty.
* Essay, B. i. ch. iv. s. 18.
Digitized by Google
408 PHILOSOPHY OF CHEMISTRY.
And, indeed, though with his accustomed skill in contro­
versy, he managed to retain a triumphant tone, he was
driven from his main points. Thus he repels the charge
that he took the being of substance to be doubtful*.
He says, “ Having everywhere affirmed and built upon it
that man is a substance, I cannot be supposed to question
or doubt of the being of substance, till I can question or
doubt of my own being.” He attempts to make a stand
by saying that being of things does not depend upon our
ideas; but if he had been asked how, without having an
idea of substance, he knew substance to be, it is difficult
to conceive what answer he could have made. Again, he
had said that our idea of substance arises from our “ac­
customing ourselves to suppose” a substratum of qua­
lities. Upon this his adversary, Bishop Stillingfleet, very
properly asks, Is this custom grounded upon true reason
or no ? To which Locke replies, that it is grounded upon
this: That we cannot conceive how simple ideas of sensible
qualities should subsist alone; and therefore we suppose
them to exist in, and to be supported by some common
subject, which support we denote by the name substance.
Thus he allows, not only that we necessarily assume the
reality of substance, but that we cannot conceive qualities
without substance; which are concessions so ample as
almost to include all that any advocate for the Idea of
Substance need desire.
Perhaps Locke, and the adherents of Locke, in deny­
ing that we have an idea of substance in general, were
latently influenced by finding that they could not, by any
effort of mind, call up any image which could be con­
sidered as an image of substance in general. That in
this sense we have no idea of substance, is plain enough;
but in the same sense we have no idea of space in
general, or of time, or number, or cause, or resemblance.
• Essay, B . II. ch. ii., and First Letter to the Bishop of Worcester.
Digitized by Googk
IDEA OF SUBSTANCE. 409
Yet we certainly have such a power of representing to
our minds space, time, number, cause, resemblance, as to
arrive at numerous truths by means of such representa­
tions. These general representations I have all along
called Ideas, nor can I discover any more appropriate
word; and in this sense, we have also, as has now been
shown, an Idea of Substance.
4. Is all Material Substance heavy ?—The principle
that the quantity of the substance of any body remains
unchanged by our operations upon it, is, as we have said,
of universal validity. But then the question occurs, how
are we to ascertain the quantity of substance, and thus,
to apply the principle in particular cases. In the case
above mentioned, where smoke was to be weighed, it
was manifestly assumed that the quantity of the sub­
stance might be known by its weight; and that the total
quantity being unchanged, the total weight also would
remain the same. Now on what grounds do we make
this assumption ? Is all material substance heavy? and
if we can assert this to be so, on what grounds does the
truth of the assertion rest? These are not idle questions
of barren curiosity; for in the history of that science
(Chemistry) to which the idea of substance is principally
applicable, nothing less than the fate of a comprehen­
sive and long established theory (the Phlogiston theory)
depended upon the decision of this question. When it
was urged that the reduction of a metal from a calcined
to a metallic form could not consist in the addition of
phlogiston, because the metal was lighter than the calx
had been; it was replied by some, that this was not con­
clusive, for that phlogiston was a principle of levity,
diminishing the weight of the body to which it was
added. This reply was, however, rejected by all the
sounder philosophers, and the force of the argument
finally acknowledged. But why was this suggestion of a
Digitized by Googk
4 1 0 PHILOSOPHY OF CHEMISTRY.
substance having no weight, or having absolute levity,
repudiated by the most reflective reasoners? It is as­
sumed, it appears, that all matter must be heavy; what
is the ground of this assumption ?
The ground of such an assumption appears to be the
following. Our idea of substance includes in it this:
—that substance is a quantity capable of addition ; and
thus capable of making up, by composition, a sum equal
to all its parts. But substance, and the quantity of sub­
stance, can be known to us only by its attributes and
qualities. And the qualities which are capable constantly
and indefinitely of increase and diminution by increase
and diminution of the parts, must be conceived insepa­
rable from the substance. For the qualities, if removable
from the substance at all, must be removable bv some
operation performed upon the substance; and by the
idea of substance, all such operations are only equivalent
to separation, junction, and union of parts. Hence those
characters which thus universally increase and diminish
by addition and subtraction of the things themselves»
belong to the substance of the things. They are mea­
sures of its quantity, and are not merely its separable
qualities.
The weight of bodies is such a character. However
we compound or divide bodies, we compound and divide
their weight in the same manner. We may dismember
a body into the minutest parts; but the sum of the
weights of the parts is always equal to the whole weight
of the body. The weight of a body can be in no way
increased or diminished, except by adding something to
it or taking something from it. If we bake a brick, we
do not conceive that the change of colour or of hardness,
implies that anything has been created or destroyed. It
may easily be that the parts have only assumed a new
arrangement; but if the brick have lost weight, we sup-
Digitized by Google
IDEA OP SUBSTANCE. 411
pose that something (moisture for instance) has been
removed elsewhere.
Thus weight is apprehended as essential to matter.
In considering the dismemberment or analysis of bodies,
we assume that there must be some criterion of the
quantity of substance; and this criterion can possess no
other properties than their weight possesses. If we
assume an element which has no weight, or the weight
of which is negative, as some of the defenders of phlo­
giston attempted to do, we put an end to all speculation
on such subjects. For if weight is not the criterion of
the quantity of one element, phlogiston for instance, why
is weight the criterion of the quantity of any other ele­
ment? We may, by the same right, assume any other
real or imaginary element to have levity instead of gra­
vity; or to have a peculiar intensity of gravity which
makes its weight no index of its quantity. In short, if
we do this, we deprive of all possibility of application
our notions of element, analysis, and composition; and
violate the postulates on which the questions are pro­
pounded which we thus attempt to decide.
We must, then, take a constant and quantitative pro­
perty of matter, such as weight is, to be an index-of the
quantity of matter or of substance to which it belongs.
I do not here speak of the question which has some­
times been proposed, whether the weight or the inertia
of bodies be the more proper measure of the quantity
of matter. For the measure of inertia is regulated by
the same assumption as that of substance:—that the
quantity of the whole must be equal to the quantity of
all the parts: and inertia is measured by weight, for the
same reason that substance is so.
Having thus established the certainty, and ascer­
tained the interpretation of the fundamental principle
which the Idea of Substance involves, we are prepared
Digitized by Googk
412 PHILOSOPHY OF CHEMISTRY.
to consider its application in the science upon which it
has a peculiar bearing.
C h a p t e r IV
APPLICATION OF THE IDEA OF SUBSTANCE IN
CHEMISTRY.
1. A Body isEqual to the Sum of it
F rom the earliest periods of chemistry the balance has
been familiarly used to determine the proportions of the
ingredients and of the compound; and soon after the
middle of the last century, this practice was so studiously
followed, that Wenzel and Richter were thereby led to
the doctrine of Definite Proportions. But yet the full
value and significance of the balance, as an indispensable
instrument in chemical researches, was not understood
till the gaseous, as well as solid and fluid ingredients
were taken into the account. When this was done, it
was found that the principle, that the whole is equal to
the sum of its parts, of which, as we have seen, the
necessary truth, in such cases, flows from the idea of
substance, could be applied in the most rigorous manner.
And conversely, it was found that by the use of the
balance, the chemist could decide, in doubtful cases,
which was a whole, and which were parts.
For chemistry considers all the changes which belong
to her province as compositions and decompositions of
elements; but still the question may occur, whether an
observed change be the one or the other. How can we
distinguish whether the process which we contemplate
be composition or decomposition?—whether the new
body be formed by addition of a new, or subtraction of
an old element ? Again; in the case of decomposition,
we may inquire, What are the ultimate limits of our
Digitized by Google
analysis? If we decompound bodies into others more
and more simple, how far can we carry this succession
of processes ? How far can we proceed in the road of
analysis ? And in our actual course, what evidence have
we that our progress, as far as it has gone, has carried
us from the more complex to the more simple ?
To this we reply, that the criterion which enables us
to distinguish, decidedly and finally, whether our pro­
cess have been a mere analysis of the proposed body
into its ingredients, or a synthesis of some of them with
some new element, is the principle stated above, that
the weight of the whole is equal to the weight of
all the parts. And no process of chemical analysis or
synthesis can be considered complete till it has been
verified by this fact;—by finding that the weight of the
compound is the weight of its supposed ingredients; or,
that if there be an element which we think we have
detached from the whole, its loss is betrayed by a cor­
responding diminution of weight.
I have already noticed what an important part this
principle has played in the great chemical controversy
which ended in the establishment of the oxygen theory.
The calcination of a metal was decided to be the union
of oxygen with the metal, and not the separation of
phlogiston from it, because it was found that in the pro­
cess of calcination, the weight of the metal increased,
and increased exactly as much as the weight of ambient
air diminished. When oxygen and hydrogen were ex­
ploded together, and a small quantity of water was pro­
duced, it was held that this was really a synthesis of
water, because, when very great care was taken with the
process, the weight of the water which resulted was
equal to the weight of the gases which disappeared.
2. Lavoisier.—It was when gases came to be con­
sidered as entering largely into the composition of liquid
APPLICATION OP THE IDEA OF SUBSTANCE. 413
Digitized by Google
4 1 4 PHILOSOPHY OF CHEMISTRY.
and solid bodies, that extreme accuracy in weighing was
seen to be so necessary to the true understanding of
chemical processes. It was in this manner discovered
by Lavoisier and his contemporaries that oxygen con­
stitutes a large ingredient of calcined metals, of acids,
and of water. A countryman of Lavoisier* has not only
given most just praise to that great philosopher for
having constantly tested all his processes by a careful
and skilful use of the balance, but has also claimed for
him the merit of having introduced the maxim, that in
chemical operations nothing is created and nothing lost.
But I think it is impossible to deny that this maxim is
assumed in all the attempts at analysis made by his
contemporaries, as well as by him. This maxim is indeed
included in any clear notion of analysis: it could not be
the result of the researches of any one chemist, but was
the governing principle ofthe reasonings ofall. Lavoisier,
however, employed this principle with peculiar assiduity
and skill. In applying it, he does not confine himself to
mere additions and subtractions ofthe quantities of ingre­
dients; but often obtains his results by more complex
processes. In one of his investigations he says, “ I may
consider the ingredients which are brought together, and
the result which is obtained as an algebrical equation;
and if I successively suppose each of the quantities of
this equation to be unknown, I can obtain its value
from the rest: and thus I can rectify the experiment by
the calculation, and the calculation by the experiment.
I have often taken advantage of this method, in order
to correct the first results of my experiments, and to
direct me in repeating them with proper precautions.”
The maxim, that the whole is equal to the sum of all
its parts, is thus capable of most important and varied
employment in chemistry. But it may be applied in
• M. Duma«, Legons de la Philosophic Chimiqne. 1837- p- 157»
Digitized by Googk
asother form to the exclusion of a class of speculations
which are often put forwards.
3. Maxim respecting Imponderable Elements.—
Several of the phenomena which belong to bodies, as
heat, light, electricity, magnetism, have been explained
hypothetically by assuming the existence of certain
fluids; but these fluids have never been shown to have
weight. Hence such hypothetical fluids have been termed
imponderable elements. It is however plain, that so long
as these fluids appear to be without weight, they are
not elements of bodies in the same sense as those ele­
ments of which we have hitherto been speaking. Indeed
we may with good reason doubt whether those pheno­
mena depend upon transferable fluids at all. We have
seen strong reason to believe that light is not matter, but
only motion; and the same thing appears to be probable
with regard to heat. Nor is it at all inconceivable that
a similar hypothesis respecting electricity and magnetism
should hereafter be found tenable. Now if heat, light,
and those other agents, be not matter, they are not
elements in such a sense as to be included in the prin­
ciple referred to above, That the body is equal to the
sum of its elements. Consequently the maxim just
stated, that in chemical operations nothing is created,
nothing annihilated, does not apply to light and heat.
They are not things. And whether heat can be pro­
duced where there was no heat before, and light struck
out from darkness, the ideas of which we are at present
treating do not enable us to say. In reasoning respect­
ing chemical synthesis and analysis therefore, we shall
only make, confusion by attempting to include in our
conception the light and heat which are produced and
destroyed. Such phenomena may be very proper sub­
jects of study, as indeed they undoubtedly are; but
they cannot be studied to advantage by considering
APPLICATION OF THE IDEA OF SUBSTANCE. 415
Digitized by Google
4 1 6 PHILOSOPHY OF CHEMISTRY.
them as sharing the nature of composition and decom­
position.
Again: in all attempts to explain the processes of
nature, the proper course is, first to measure the facts
with precision, and then to endeavour to understand
their cause. Now the facts of chemical composition and
decomposition, the weights of the ingredients and of the
compounds, are facts measurable with the utmost pre­
cision and certainty. But it is far otherwise with the
light and heat which accompany chemical processes.
When combustion, deflagration, explosion, takes place,
how can we measure the light or the heat? Even in
cases of more tranquil action, though we can apply the
thermometer, what does the thermometer tell us respect­
ing the quantity of the heat ? Since then we have no
measure which is of any value as regards such circum­
stances in chemical changes, if we attempt to account
for these phenomena on chemical principles, we intro­
duce, into investigations in themselves perfectly precise
and mathematically rigorous, another class of reasonings,
vague and insecure, of which the only possible effect is
to vitiate the whole reasoning, and to make our conclu­
sions inevitably erroneous.
We are led then to this maxim : that imponderable
fluids are not to be admitted as chemical elements of
bodies*.
4. It appears, I think, that our best and most philo-
• Since we are thus warned by a sound view of the nature of
science, from considering chemical affinity as having any hold upon
imponderable elements, we are manifestly still more decisively prohi­
bited from supposing mechanical impulse or pressure to have any
effect upon such elements. To make this supposition, is to connect the
most subtle and incorporeal objects which we know in nature by the
most gross material ties. This remark seems to be applicable to M.
Poisson 8 hypothesis that the electric fluid is retained at the surface of
bodies by the pressure of the atmosphere.
Digitized by Google
sophical chemists have proceeded upon this principle in
their investigations. In reasoning concerning the con­
stitution of bodies and the interpretation of chemical
changes, the attempts to include in these interpretations
the heat or cold produced, by the addition or subtraction
of a certain hypothetical “ caloric,” have become more
and more rare among men of science. Such statements,
and the explanations often put forwards of the light and
heat which appear under various circumstances in the
form of fire, must be considered as unessential parts of
any sound theory. Accordingly we find Mr. Faraday
gradually relinquishing such views. In January, 1834,
he speaks generally of an hypothesis of this kind». “ I
cannot refrain from recalling here the beautiful idea put
forth, I believe by Berzelius, in his developement of his
views of the electro-chemical theory of affinity, that the
heat and light evolved during cases of powerful combi­
nation are the consequence of the electric discharge
which is at that moment taking place.” But in April
of the same yearf, he observes, that in the combination
of oxygen and hydrogen to produce water, electric
powers to a most enormous amount are for the time
active, but that the flame which is produced gives but
feeble traces of such powers. “ Such phenomena,”
therefore, he adds, “ may not, cannot, be taken as evi­
dences of the nature of the action; but are merely inci­
dental results, incomparably small in relation to the
forces concerned, and supplying no information of the
way in which the particles are active on each other, or
in which their forces are finally arranged.”
In pursuance of this maxim, we must consider as an
unessential part of the oxygen theory that portion of it,
much insisted upon by its author at the time, in which
when sulphur, for instance, combined with oxygen to
• Researches, 870. + lb. 960.
VOL. I. W. P. E E
APPLICATION OF THE IDEA OF SUBSTANCE. 417
Digitized by Googk
4 1 8 PHILOSOPHY OF CHEMISTRY.
produce sulphuric acid, the combustion was accounted
for by means of the caloric which was supposed to be
liberated from its combination with oxygen.
5. Controversy of the Composition of Water.—There
is another controversy of our times to which we may
with great propriety apply the maxim now before us.
After the glory of having first given a true view of the
composition of water had long rested tranquilly upon
the names of Cavendish and Lavoisier, a claim was
made in favour of James Watt as the real author of this
discovery by his son, (Mr. J. Watt,) and his eulogist,
(M. Arago*.) It is not to our purpose here to discuss
the various questions which have arisen on this subject
respecting priority of publication, and respecting the
translation of opinions published at one time into the
language of another period. But if we look at Watt’s
own statement of his views, given soon after those of
Cavendish had been published, we shall perceive that
it is marked by a violation of this maxim: we shall
find that he does admit imponderable fluids as chemical
elements; and thus shows a vagueness and confusion in
his idea of chemical composition. With such imperfec­
tion in his views, it is not surprizing that Watt, not only
did not anticipate, but did not apprehend quite precisely
the discovery of Cavendish and Lavoisier. Watt’s state­
ment of his views is as followsf:—“ Are we not autho­
rized to conclude that water is composed of dephlogisti-
cated air and phlogiston deprived of part of their latent
or elementary heat; that dephlogisticated or pure air
is composed of water deprived of its phlogiston and
united to elementary heat and light; and that the latter
are contained in it in a latent state, so as not to be sen­
sible to the thermometer or to the eye; and if light be
* Eloge de James Watt, Annuaire Long., 1839.
+ P
hil.Trans., 1784, p.332.
Digitized by Googk
APPLICATION OF THE IDEA OF SUBSTANCE. 4 1 9
only a modification of heat, or a circumstance attending
it, or a component part of the inflammable air, then
pure or dephlogisticated air is composed of water de­
prived of its phlogiston and united to elementary heat ?”
When we compare this doubtful and hypothetical
statement, involving so much that is extraneous and
heterogeneous, with the conclusion of Cavendish, in
which there is nothing hypothetical or superfluous, we
may confidently assent to the decision which has been
pronounced by one* of our own time in favour of Caven­
dish. And we may with pleasure recognize, in this
enlightened umpire, a due appreciation of the value of
the maxim on which we are now insisting. “ Cavendish,”
says Mr. Vernon Harcourt, “ pared off from the hypo­
theses their theories of combustion, and affinities qf
imponderable for ponderable matter, as complicating
chemical with physical considerations.”
6. Relation of Heat to Chemistry.—But while we
thus condemn the attempts to explain the thermotical
phenomena of chemical processes by means of che­
mical considerations, it may be asked if we are alto­
gether to renounce the hope of understanding such
phenomena ? It is plain, it may be said, that heat gene­
rated in chemical changes is always a very important
• The Rev. W. Vernon Harcourt, Address to the British Asso­
ciation, 1839.—Since the first edition of this work was published, and
also since the second edition of the History of the Inductive Sciences,
Hr. Watt's correspondence bearing upon the question of the Compo­
sition of Water has been published by Mr. Muirhead. I do not
find, in this publication, any reason for withdrawing what I have
stated in the text above: but with reference to the statement in the
History, it appears that Mr. Cavendish's claim to the discovery was
not uncontested in his own time. Mr. Watt had looked at the com­
position of water, as a problem to be solved, perhaps more distinctly
than Mr. Cavendish had done; and he conceived himself wronged by
Mr. Cavendish's putting forwards his experiment as the first solution
of this problem.
E E 2
Digitized by Google
4 2 0 PHILOSOPHY OF CHEMISTRY.
circumstance, and can sometimes be measured, and per­
haps reduced to laws; are we prohibited from speculat­
ing concerning the causes of such circumstances and
such laws ? And to this we reply, that we may properly
attempt to connect chemical with thermotical processes,
sofa r as we have obtained a clear and probable view of
the nature of the thermotical processes. When our
theory of Thermotics is tolerably complete and certain,
we may with propriety undertake to connect it with our
theory of Chemistry. But at present we are not far
enough advanced in our knowledge of heat to make this
attempt with any hope of success. We can hardly
expect to understand the part which heat plays in the
union of two bodies, when we cannot as yet compre­
hend in what manner it produces the liquefaction or
vaporization of one body. We cannot look to account
for Gay Lussac and Dalton’s Law, that all gases expand
equally by heat, till we learn how heat causes a gas to
expand. We cannot hope to see the grounds of Dulong
and Petit’s Law, that the specific heat of all atoms is
the same, till we know much more, not only about atoms,
but about specific heat. We have as yet no thermotical
theory which even professes to account for all the pro­
minent facts of the subject*: and the theories which
have been proposed are of the most diverse kind.
Laplace assumes particles of bodies surrounded by
atmospheres of caloricf; Cauchy makes heat consist in
longitudinal vibrations of the ether of which transverse
vibrations produce light: in Ampere’s theory}, heat
consists in the vibrations of the particles of bodies.
And so long as we have nothing more certain in our
conceptions of heat than the alternative of these and
other precarious hypotheses, how can we expect to arrive
at any real knowledge, by connecting the results of such
* Hisf. Ind. S c i B. x. c. 4. t lb. + lb.
Digitized by Google
THE ATOMIC THEORY. 4 21
hypotheses with the speculations of Chemistry, of which
science the theory is at least equally obscure ?
The largest attempts at chemical theory have been
made in the form of the Atomic Theory, to which I have
just had occasion to allude. I must, therefore, before
quitting the subject, say a few words respecting this
theory.
C h a p t e r V.
TH E ATOMIC TH EO RY .
1. The Atomic Theory considered on Chemical
Grounds.— W e have already seen that the combinations
which result from chemical affinity are definite, a certain
quantity of one ingredient uniting, not with an uncer­
tain, but with a certain quantity of another ingredient.
But it was found, in addition to this principle, that one
ingredient would often unite with another in different
proportions, and that, in such cases, these proportions
are multiples one of another. In the three salts formed
by potassa with oxalic acid, the quantities of acid which
combine with the same quantity of alkali are exactly in
the proportion of the numbers 1, 2, 4. And the same
rule of the existence of multiple proportions is found to
obtain in other cases.
It is obvious that such results will be accounted for,
if we suppose the base and the acid to consist each of
definite equal particles, and that the formation of the
salts above mentioned consists in the combination of one
particle of the base with one particle of acid, with two
particles of acid, and with four particles of acid, respec­
tively. But further; as we have already stated, chemi­
cal affinity is not only definite, but reciprocal. The pro-
Digitized by Google
4 2 2 PHILOSOPHY OF CHEMISTRY.
portions of potassa and soda which form neutral salts
being 590 and 391 in one case, they are so in all cases.
These numbers represent the proportions of weight in
which the two bases, potassa and soda, enter into ana­
logous combinations; 590 of potassa is equivalent to
391 of soda. These facts with regard to combination
are still expressed by the above supposition of equal
particles, assuming that the weights of a particle of
potassa and of soda are in the proportion of 590 to 391.
But we pursue our analysis further. We find that
potassa is a compound of a metallic base, potassium,
and of oxygen, in the proportion of 490 to 100; we
suppose, then, that the particle of potassa consists of a
particle of potassium and a particle of oxygen, and these
latter particles, since we see no present need to suppose
them divided, potassium and oxygen being simple bodies,
we may call a
t
o
m
s,and assume to be indivisible. A
by supposing all simple bodies to consist of such atoms,
and compounds to be formed by the union of two, or
three, or more of such atoms, we explain the occurrence
of definite and multiple proportions, and we construct
the Atomic Theory.
2. Hypothesis of Atoms.—So far as the assumption
of such atoms as we have spoken of serves to express
those laws of chemical composition which we have
referred to, it is a clear and useful generalization. But
if the Atomic Theory be put forwards (and its author,
Dr. Dalton, appears to have put it forwards with such
an intention,) as asserting that chemical elements are
really composed of a
t
o
m
s,that is, of such par
further divisible, we cannot avoid remarking, that for
such a conclusion, chemical research has not afforded,
nor can afford, any satisfactory evidence whatever. The
smallest observable quantities of ingredients, as well as
the largest, combine according to the laws of proportions
Digitized by Google
THE ATOMIC THEORY. 4 2 3
and equivalence which have been cited above. How
are we to deduce from such facts any inference with
regard to the existence of certain smallest possible par­
ticles ? The Theory, when dogmatically taught as a
physical truth, asserts that all observable quantities of
elements arecomposed of proportional numbers of par­
ticles which can no further be subdivided; but all which
observation teaches us is, that there be such particles,
they are smaller than the smallest observable quantities.
In chemical experiment, at least, there is not the slight­
est positive evidence for the existence of such atoms.
The assumption of indivisible particles, smaller than the
smallest observable, which combine, particle with par­
ticle, will explain the phenomena; but the assumption
of particles bearing this proportion, but not possessing
the property of indivisibility, will explain the phenomena
at least equally well. The decision of the question,
therefore, whether the Atomic Hypothesis be the proper
way of conceiving the chemical combinations of sub­
stances, must depend, not upon chemical facts, but upon
our conception of substance. In this sense the question
is an ancient and curious controversy, and we shall here­
after have to make some remarks upon it.
3. Chemical Difficulties of the Hypothesis.—But
before doing this, we may observe that there is no
small difficulty in reconciling this hypothesis with the
facts of chemistry. According'to the theory, all salts,
compounded of an acid and a base, are analogous in their
atomic constitution; and the number of atoms in one
such compound being known or assumed, the number of
atoms in other salts may be determined. But when we
proceed in this course of reasoning to other bodies, as
metals, we find ourselves involved in difficulties. The
protoxide of iron is a base which, according to all ana­
logy, must consist of one atom of iron and one of oxygen :
Digitized by Google
4 2 4 PHILOSOPHY OF CHEMISTRY.
but the peroxide of iron is also a base, and it appears by
the analysis of this substance that it must consist of two-
thirds of an atom of iron and one atom of oxygen.
Here, then, our indivisible atoms must be divisible, even
upon chemical grounds. And if we attempt to evade
this difficulty by making the peroxide of iron consist of
two atoms of iron and three of oxygen, we have to make
a corresponding alteration in the theoretical constitution
of all bodies analogous to the protoxide; and thus we
overturn the very foundation of the theory. Chemical
facts, therefore, not only do not prove the Atomic Theory
as a physical truth, but they are not, according to any
modification yet devised of the theory, reconcileable with
its scheme.
Nearly the same conclusions result from the attempts
to employ the Atomic Hypothesis in expressing another
important chemical law;—the law of the combinations of
gases according to definite proportions of their volumes,
experimentally established by Gay Lussac*. In order
to account for this law, it has been very plausibly sug­
gested that all gases, under the same pressure, contain
an equal number of atoms in the same space; and that
when they combine, they unite atom to atom. Thus one
volume of chlorine unites with one volume of hydrogen,
and form hydrochloric acidf. But then this hydro­
chloric acid occupies the space of the two volumes; and
therefore the proper number of particles cannot be sup­
plied, and the uniform distribution of atoms in all gases
maintained, without dividing into two each of the com­
pound particles, constituted of an atom of chlorine and
an atom of hydrogen. And thus in this case, also, the
Atomic Theory becomes untenable if it be understood to
imply the indivisibility of the atoms.
In all these attempts to obtain a distinct physical
* Hist. Ind. Sc., B. xiv. c. 8. t Dumas, Phil. Chim. 283.
Digitized by Googk
THE ATOMIC THEORY. 425
conception of chemical union by the aid of the Atomic
Hypothesis, the atoms are conceived to be associated by
certain forces of the nature of mechanical attractions.
But we have already seen * that no such mode of con­
ception can at all explain or express the facts of che­
mical combination; and therefore it is not wonderful that
when the Atomic Theory attempts to give an account of
chemical relations by contemplating them under such
an aspect, the facts on which it grounds itself should be
found not to authorize its positive doctrines; and that
when these doctrines are tried upon the general range
of chemical observation, they should prove incapable of
even expressing, without self-contradiction, the laws of
phenomena.
4. Grounds of the Atomic Doctrine.—Yet the doc­
trine of atoms, or of substance as composed of indivisible
particles, has in all ages had great hold upon the minds
of physical speculators; nor would this doctrine ever
have suggested itself so readily, or have been maintained
so tenaciously, as the true mode of conceiving chemical
combinations, if it had not been already familiar to the
minds of those who endeavour to obtain a general view
of the constitution of nature. The grounds of the assump­
tion of the atomic structure of substance are to be found
rather in the idea of substance itself, than in the experi­
mental laws of chemical affinity. And the question of
the existence of atoms, thus depending upon an idea
which has been the subject of contemplation from the
very infancy of philosophy, has been discussed in all ages
with interest and ingenuity. On this very account it is
unlikely that the question, so far as it bears upon che­
mistry, should admit of any clear and final solution. Still
it will be instructive to look back at some of the opinions
which have been delivered respecting this doctrine.
* See Chapter I. of this Book.
Digitized by Googk
4 2 6 PHILOSOPHY OF CHEMISTRY.
5. Ancient Prevalence of the Atomic Doctrine.—The
doctrine that matter consists of minute, simple, indivisible,
indestructible particles as its ultimate elements, has been
current in all ages and countries, whenever the tendency
of man to wide and subtle speculations has been active.
I need not attempt to trace the history of this opinion
in the schools of Greece and Italy. It was the leading
feature in the physical tenets of the Epicureans, and was
adopted by their Roman disciples, as the poem of Lucre­
tius copiously shows us. The same tenet had been held
at still earlier periods, in forms more or less definite, by
other philosophers. It is ascribed to Democritus, and is
said to have been by him derived from Leucippus. But
this doctrine is found also, we are told*, among the
speculations of another intellectual and acute race, the
Hindoos. According to some of their philosophical
writers, the ultimate elements of matter are atoms, of
which it is proved by certain reasonings, that they are
each one-sixth of one of the motes that float in the
sunbeam.
This early prevalence of controversies of the widest
and deepest kind, which even in our day remain unde­
cided, has in it nothing which need surprize us ; or, at
least, it has in it nothing which is not in conformity with
the general course of the history of philosophy. As soon
as any ideas are clearly possessed by the human mind, its
activity and acuteness in reasoning upon them are such,
that the fundamental antitheses and ultimate difficul­
ties which belong to them are soon brought into view.
The Greek and Indian philosophers had mastered com­
pletely the Idea of Space, and possessed the Idea of
Substance in tolerable distinctness. They were, therefore,
quite ready, with their lively and subtle minds, to discuss
the question of the finite and infinite divisibility of matter,
* Hy Mr. Colcbrook. Asinlie Res. 1824.
Digitized by Googk
THE ATOMIC THEORY. 427
so far as it involved only the ideas of space and of sub­
stance, and this accordingly they did with great ingenuity
and perseverance.
But the ideas of Space and of Substance are far from
being sufficient to enable men to form a complete general
view of the constitution of matter. We must add to
these ideas, that of mechanical Force with its antagonist
Resistance, and that of the Affinity of one kind of matter
for another. Now the former of these ideas the ancients
possessed in a very obscure and confused manner; and
of the latter they had no apprehension whatever. They
made vague assumptions respecting the impact and pres­
sure of atoms on each other; but of their mutual attrac­
tion and repulsion they never had any conception, except
of the most dim and wavering kind; and of an affinity
different from mere local union they did not even dream.
Their speculations concerning atoms, therefore, can have
no value for us, except as a part of the history of science.
If their doctrines appear to us to approach near to the
conclusions of our modern philosophy, it must be because
our modern philosophy is that philosophy which has not
fully profited by the additional light which the experi­
ments and meditations of later times have thrown upon
the constitution of matter.
6. Bacon.—Still, when modern philosophers look
upon the Atomic Theory of the ancients in a general point
of view merely, without considering the special conditions
which such a theory must fulfil, in order to represent the
discoveries of modern times, they are disposed to regard
it with admiration. Accordingly we find Francis Bacon
strongly expressing such a feeling. The Atomic Theory
is selected and dwelt upon by him as the chain which
connects the best parts of the physical philosophy of the
ancient and the modern world. Among his works is a
remarkable dissertation On the Philosophy of Democri­
Digitized by Google
4 2 8 PHILOSOPHY OF CHEMISTRY.
tus, Parmenides, and Telesius: the last mentioned of
whom was one of the revivers of physical science in
modern times. In this work he speaks of the atomic
doctrine of Democritus as a favourable example of the
exertions of the undisciplined intellect. “ Haec ipsa
placita, quamvis paulo emendatiora, talia sunt qualia
esse possunt ilia quae ab intellectu sibi permisso, nec
continenter et gradatim sublevato, profecta videntur.”—
“These doctrines, thus [in an ancient fable] presented in
a better form, are such glimpses of truth as can be ob­
tained by the intellect left to its own natural impulses,
and not ascending by successive and connected steps,”
[as the Baconian philosophy directs.] “ Accordingly,”
he adds, “the doctrine of Atoms, from its going a step
beyond the period in which it was advanced, was ridi­
culed by the vulgar, and severely handled in the dispu­
tations of the learned, notwithstanding the profound
acquaintance with physical science by which its author
was allowed to be distinguished, and from which he
acquired the character of a magician.”
“ However,” he continues, “ neither the hostility of
Aristotle, with all his skill and vigour in disputation,
(though, like the Ottoman sultans, he laboured to destroy
all his brother philosophers that he might rest undis­
puted master of the throne of science,) nor the majestic
and lofity authority of Plato, could effect the subversion
of the doctrine of Democritus. And while the opinions
of Plato and Aristotle were rehearsed with loud decla­
mation and professorial pomp in the schools, this of
Democritus was always held in high honour by those of
a deeper wisdom, who followed in silence a severer path
of contemplation. In the days of Roman speculation it
kept its ground and its favour; Cicero everywhere speaks
of its author with the greatest praise; and Juvenal, who,
like poets in general, probably expressed the prevailing
Digitized by Googk
THE ATOMIC THEORY. 4 2 9
judgment of his time, proclaims his merit as a noble
exception to the general stupidity of his countrymen.
. . . . Cujus prudentia monstrat
Magnos posse viros et magna exempla daturos
Vervecum in patria crassoque eub acre nasci.
“ The destruction of this philosophy was not effected
by Aristotle and Plato, but by Genseric and Attila, and
their barbarians. For then, when human knowledge had
suffered shipwreck, those fragments of the Aristotelian
and Platonic philosophy floated on the surface like things
of some lighter and emptier sort, and so were preserved;
while more solid matters went to the bottom, and were
almost lost in oblivion.”
7. Modem Prevalence of the Atomic Doctrine.—It is
our business here to consider the doctrine of Atoms only
in its bearing upon existing physical sciences, and I must
therefore abstain from tracing the various manifestations
of it in the schemes of hypothetical cosmologists;—its
place among the vortices of Descartes, its exhibition in
the monads of Leibnitz. I will, however, quote a pas­
sage from Newton to show the hold it had upon his
mind.
At the close of his Ofticks he says, “All these
things being considered, it seems probable to me that
God, in the beginning, formed matter in solid, massy,
hard, impenetrable, moveable particles, of such sizes and
figures, and with such other properties, and in such pro­
portions to space, as most conduced to the end for which
He formed them; and that these primitive particles,
being solids, are incomparably harder than any porous
bodies compounded of them, even so very hard as never
to wear or break in pieces; no ordinary power being able
to divide what God had made one in the first creation.
While the particles continue entire, they may compose
Digitized by Googk
430 PHILOSOPHY OF CHEMISTRY.
bodies of one and the same nature and texture in all
ages: but should they wear away or break in pieces, the
nature of things depending on them would be changed.
Water and earth composed of old worn particles and
fragments of particles would not be of the same nature
and texture now with water and earth composed of entire
particles in the beginning. And therefore that nature
may be lasting, the changes of corporeal things are to be
placed only in the various separations and new associa­
tions and motions of these permanent particles; com­
pounded bodies being apt to break, not in the midst of
solid particles, but where those particles are laid together
and only touch in a few points.”
We shall hereafter see how extensively the atomic
doctrine has prevailed among still more recent philoso­
phers. Not only have the chemists assumed it as the
fittest form for exhibiting the principles of multiple pro­
portions; but the physical mathematicians, as Laplace
and Poisson, have made it the basis of their theories
of heat, electricity, capillary action; and the crystal-
lographers have been supposed to have established both
the existence and the arrangement of such ultimate
molecules.
In the way in which it has been employed by such
writers, the hypothesis of ultimate particles has been of
great use, and is undoubtedly permissible. But when we
would assert this theory, not as a convenient hypothesis
for the expression or calculation of the laws of nature,
but as a philosophical truth respecting the constitution
of the universe, we find ourselves checked by difficulties
of reasoning which we cannot overcome, as well as by
conflicting phenomena which we cannot reconcile. I
will attempt to state briefly the opposing arguments on
this question.
Digitized by Google
THE ATOMIC THEORY. 431
8. Argumentsfa r and against Atoms.—The leading
arguments on the two sides of the question, in their most
general form, may be stated as follows:—
Far the Atomic Doctrine.—The appearances which
nature presents are compounded of many parts, but if we
go on resolving the larger parts into smaller, and so on
successively, we must at last come to something simple.
For that which is compound can be so no otherwise than
by composition of what is simple; and if we suppose all
composition to be removed, which hypothetically we may
do, there can remain nothing but a number of simple
substances, capable of composition, but themselves not
compounded. That is, matter being dissolved, resolves
itself into atoms.
Against the Atomic Doctrine.— Space is divisible
without limit, as may be proved by geometry; and matter
occupies space, therefore matter is divisible without limit,
and no portion of matter is , or an atom.
And to the argument on the other side just stated, it
is replied that we cannot even hypothetically divest a
body of composition, if by composition we mean the
relation of point to point in space. However small be
a particle, it is compounded of parts having relation in
space.
The Atomists urge again, that if matter be infinitely
divisible, a finite body consists of an infinite number of
parts, which is a contradiction. To this it is replied,
that the finite body consists of an infinite number of
parts in the same sense in which the parts are infinitely
small, which is no contradiction.
But the opponents of the Atomists not only rebut,
but retort this argument drawn from the notion of
infinity. Your atoms, they say, are indivisible by any
finite force; therefore they are infinitely hard; and thus
your finite particles possess infinite properties. To this
Digitized by Googk
4 3 2 PHIL080PHY OF CHEMISTRY.
the Atomists are wont to reply, that they do not mean
the hardness of their particles to be infinite, but only so
great as to resist all usual natural forces. But here it is
plain that their position becomes untenable; for, in the
first place, their assumption of this precise degree of
hardness in the particles is altogether gratuitous; and in
the next place, if it were granted, such particles are not
atoms, since in the next moment the forces of nature
may be augmented so as to divide the particle, though
hitherto undivided. -
Such are the arguments for and against the Atomic
Theory in its original form. But when these atoms are
conceived, as they have been by Newton, and commonly
by his followers, to be solid, hard particles exerting
attractive and repulsive forces, a new set of arguments
come into play. Of these, the principal one may be thus
stated: According to the Atomic Theory thus modified,
the properties of bodies depend upon the attractions and
repulsions of the particles. Therefore, among other
properties of bodies, their hardness depends upon such
forces. But if the hardness the bodies depends upon
the forces, the repulsion, for instance, of the particles,
upon what does the hardness of the particles depend ?
what progress do we make in explaining the properties
of bodies, when we assume the same properties in our
explanation? and to what purpose do we assume that
the particles are hard ?
9. Transition to Boscovich'sTh
culty it does not appear easy to offer any reply. But
if the hardness and solidity of the particles be given
up as an incongruous and untenable appendage to the
Newtonian view of the Atomic Theory, we are led to
the theory of Boscovich, according to which matter
consists not of solid particles, but of mere mathematical
centers of force. According to this theory, each body is
Digitized by Google
THE ATOMIC THEORY. 4 3 3
composed of a number of geometrical points from which
emanate forces, following certain mathematical laws in
rirtue of which the forces become, at certain small dis­
tances attractive, at certain other distances repulsive,
and at greater distances attractive again. From these
forces of the points arise the cohesion of the parts of
the same body, the resistance which it exerts against the
pressure of another body, and finally the attraction of
gravitation which it exerts upon bodies at a distance.
This theory is at least a homogenous and consistent
theory, and it is probable that it may be used as an
instrument for investigating and expressing true laws of
nature; although, as we have already said, the attempt
to identify the forces by which the particles of bodies
are bound together with mechanical attraction appears
to be a confusion of two separate ideas *.
10. Useof the Molecular Hypothesis.—In this form,
representing matter as a collection of molecules or
centers of force, the Atomic Theory has been abundantly
employed in modern times as an hypothesis on which
calculations respecting the elementary forces of bodies
might be conducted. When thus employed, it is to be
considered as expressing the principle that the pro­
perties of bodies depend upon forces emanating from
* 44Boscovich’s Theory," that all bodies m ay be considered as con­
sisting of a mere collection of centers of forces, m ay be so conceived as
possibly to involve an explanation of all the powers which their parts
exert, (such powers, namely, as those which produce optical, therm o-
tical, and chemical phenom ena;) but this theory cannot supply an
explanation of the mechanical properties of a body as a whole, especially
of its inertia. A collection of mere centers of force can have no inertia.
If tw o bodies are considered as tw o collections of centers of force, the
one attracting the other, there is in this view nothing to lim it or deter­
mine the velocity with which the one body w ill approach the other. A
world composed of such bodies is not a material w orld : for matter (as
we have already seen in Book m . Chapter v.) implies not only force,
but something which resists the action of force.
VOL. I. w . P. F F
Digitized by Google
4.34 PHILOSOPHY OF CHEMISTRY.
immovable points of their mass. This view of the way
in which the properties of bodies are to be treated by
the mechanical philosopher was introduced by Newton,
and was a natural sequel to the success which he had
obtained by reasoning concerning central forces on a
large scale. I have already quoted his Preface to the
Principia, in which he says, “ Many things induce me to
believe that the rest of the phenomena of nature, as
well as those of astronomy, may depend upon certain
forces by which the particles of bodies, in virtue of causes
not yet known, are urged towards each other and cohere
in regular figures, or are mutually repelled and recede;
and philosophers, knowing nothing of these forces, have
hitherto failed in their examination of nature.” Since
the time of Newton, this line of speculation has been fol­
lowed with great assiduity, and by some mathematicians
with great success. In particular Laplace has shown that
the hypothesis may, in many instances, be made a much
closer representation of nature, if we suppose the forces
exerted by the particles to decrease so rapidly with the
increasing distance from them, that the force is finite
only at distances imperceptible to our senses, and vanishes
at all remoter points. He has taught the method of
expressing and calculating such forces, and he and other
mathematicians of his school have applied this method
to many of the most important questions of physics; as
capillary action, the elasticity of solids, the conduction
and radiation of heat. The explanation of many appa­
rently unconnected and curious observed facts by these
mathematical theories gives us a strong assurance that
its essential principles are true. But it must be observed
that the actual constitution of bodies as composed of
distinct and separate particles is by no means proved by
these coincidences. The assumption, in the reasoning,
of certain centers of force acting at a distance, is to be
Digitized by Googk
TI1E ATOMIC THEORY. 4 3 5
considered as nothing more than a method of reducing
to calculation that view of the constitution of bodies
which supposes that they exert force at every point. It
is a mathematical artifice of the same kind as the hypo­
thetical division of a body into infinitesimal parts, in
order to find its center of gravity ; and no more implies
a physical reality than that hypothesis does.
11. Poisson's Inference.— When, therefore, M. Pois­
son, in his views of Capillary Action, treats this hypo­
thetical distribution of centers of force as if it were a
physical fact, and blames Laplace for not taking account
of their different distribution at the surface of the fluid
and below it*, he appears to push the claims of the
molecular hypothesis too far. The only ground for the
assumption of separate centers, is that we can thus
explain the action of the whole mass. The intervals
between the centers nowhere enter into this explanation:
and therefore we can have no reason for assuming these
intervals different in one part of the fluid and in the
other. M. Poisson asserts that the density of the fluid
diminishes when we approach very near the surface; but
he allows that this diminution is not detected by expe­
riment, and that the formulae on his supposition, so far
as the results go, are identical with those of Laplace.
It is clear, then, that his doctrine consists merely in the
assertion of the necessary truth of a part of the hypo­
thesis which cannot be put to the test of experiment.
It is true, that so long as we have before us the hypo­
thesis of separate centers, the particles very near the
surface are not in a condition symmetrical with that of
the others : but it is also true that this hypothesis is
only a step of calculation. There results, at one period
of the process of deduction, a stratum of smaller density
at the surface of the fluid ; but at a succeeding point of
* Poisson, Théorie de FAction Capillaire.
F F *
Digitized by Googk
436 PHILOSOPHY OF CHEMISTRY.
the reasoning the thickness of this stratum vanishes; it
has no physical existence.
Thus the molecular hypothesis, as used in such cases,
does not differ from the doctrine of forces acting at every
point of the mass; and this principle, which is common
to both the opposite views, is the true part of each.
12. Wollaston's Argument.— An attempt has been
made in another case, but depending on nearly the same
arguments, to bring the doctrine of ultimate atoms to
the test of observation. In the case of the air, we know
that there is a diminution of density in approaching the
upper surface of the atmosphere, if it have a surface:
but it is held by some that except we allow the doctrine
of ultimate molecules, it will not be bounded by any
surface, but will extend to an infinite distance. This is
the reasoning of Wollaston*. “ If air consists of any
ultimate particles no longer divisible, then must the ex­
pansion of the medium composed of them cease at that
distance where the force of gravity downwards is equal
to the resistance arising from the repulsive force of the
medium.” But if there be no such ultimate particles,
every stratum will require a stratum beyond it to prevent
by its weight a further expansion, and thus the atmo­
sphere must extend to an infinite distance. And Wol­
laston conceived that he could learn from observation
whether the atmosphere was thus diffused through all
space; for if so, it must, he argued, be accumulated
about the larger bodies of the system, as Jupiter and
the Sun, by the law of universal gravitation; and the
existence of an atmosphere about these bodies, might,
he remarked, be detected by its effects in producing
refraction. His result is, that “all the phenomena accord
entirely with the supposition that the earth’s atmosphere
is of finite extent, limited by the weight of ultimate
* Phil. Trans., 1822, p. 89.
Digitized by Google
THE ATOMIC THEORY. 437
atoms of definite magnitude, no longer divisible by re­
pulsion of their parts.”
A very little reflection will show us that such a line
of reasoning cannot lead to any result. For we know
nothing of the law which connects the density with the
•compressing force, in air so extremely rare as we must
suppose it to be near the boundary of the atmosphere.
Now there are possible laws of dependence of the den­
sity upon the compressing force such that the atmosphere
would terminate in virtue of the law without any assump­
tion of atoms. This may be proved by mathematical
reasoning. If we suppose the density of air to be as the
square root of the compressing force, it will follow that
at the very limits of the atmosphere, the strata of equal
thickness may observe in their densities such a law of
proportion as is expressed by the numbers 7, 5, 3, 1*.
If it be asked how, on this hypothesis, the density of
the highest stratum can be as 1, since there is nothing
to compress it, we answer that the upper part of the
highest stratum compresses the lower, and that the
density diminishes continually to the surface, so that the
need of compression and the compressing weight vanish
together.
The fallacy of concluding that because the height
of the atmosphere is finite, the weight of the highest
stratum must be finite, is just the same as the fallacy
of those who conclude that when we project a body ver­
* For the compressing force on each being as the whole w eight
beyond it, w ill be for the four highest strata, 16, 9, 4 and 1, of which
the square roots are as 4, 3, 2, 1, or, as 8, 6, 4, 2 ; and though these
numbers are not exactly as the densities 7, 5, 3, 1, those who are
a little acquainted w ith mathematical reasoning, w ill see that the dif­
ference arises from taking so sm all a number of Btrata. If w e were to
m ake the strata indefinitely thin, as to avoid error w e ought to do, the
coincidence would be e x a c t; and thus, according to this law, the series
of strata terminates as we ascend, without any consideration of atoms.
Digitized by Google
438 PHILOSOPHY OF CHEMISTRY.
tically upwards, because it occupies only a finite time in
ascending to the highest point, the velocity at the last
instant of the ascent must be finite. For it might be
said, if the last velocity of ascent be not finite, how can
the body describe the last particle of space in a finite
time ? and the answer is, that there is no last finite par­
ticle of space, and therefore no last finite velocity.
13. Permanence of Properties of Bodies.— We have
already seen that, in explaining the properties of matter
as we find them in nature, the assumption of solid, hard,
indestructible particles is of no use or value. But we
inay remark, before quitting the subject, that Newton
appears to have had another reason for assuming such
particles, and one well worthy of notice. He wished to
express, by means of this hypothesis, the doctrine that
the laws of nature do not alter with the course of time.
This we have already seen in the quotation from Newton.
“ The ultimate particles of matter are indestructible,
unalterable, impenetrable; for if they could break or
wear, the structure of material bodies now would be dif­
ferent from that which it was when the particles were
new.” No philosopher will deny the truth which is thus
conveyed by the assertion of atoms; but it is obviously
equally easy for a person who rejects the atomic view,
to state this truth by saying that the forces which matter
exerts do not vary with time, but however modified by
the new modifications of its form, are always unimpaired
in quantity, and capable of being restored to their
former mode of action.
We now proceed to speculations in which the funda­
mental conceptions may, perhaps, be expressed, at least
in some cases, by means of the arrangement of atoms;
but in which the philosophy of the subject appears to
require a reference to a new Fundamental Idea.
Digitized by Googk
4 3 9
BOOK VII.
TH E PH ILO SO PH Y OF
1NCL UDING CR YSTALLOGRA PH Y.
Ch a p t e r I.
EXPLICATION OF THE IDEA OF SYMMETRY.
1. W e have seen in the History of the Sciences,
that the principle which I have there termed * the prin­
ciple of developed and metamorphosed Symmetry, has
been extensively applied in botany and physiology, and
has given rise to a province of science termed Morphology.
In order to understand clearly this principle, it is neces­
sary to obtain a clear idea of the Symmetry of which we
thus speak. But this Idea of Symmetry is applicable
in the inorganic, as well as in the organic kingdoms of
nature; it is presented to our eyes in the forms of
minerals, as well as of flowers and animals; we must,
therefore, take it jinder our consideration here, in order
that we may complete our view of mineralogy, which, as
I have repeatedly said, is an essential part of chemical
science. I shall accordingly endeavour to unfold the
Idea of Symmetry with which we here have to do.
It will of course be understood that by the term
Symmetry I here intend, not that more indefinite attri­
bute of form which belongs to the domain of the fine
arts, as when we speak of the “ symmetry” of an edifice
* Hist. Ind. Sci.y B. xvii*c. vi.
Digitized by Googk
440 PHILOSOPHY OF MORPHOLOGY.
or of a sculptured figure, but a certain definite relation
or property, no less rigorous and precise than other re­
lations of number and position, which is thus one of the
sure guides of the scientific faculty, and one of the bases
of our exact science.
2. In order to explain what Symmetry is in this
sense, let the reader recollect that the bodies of animals
consist of twoequal and similar sets of members, t
right and the left side;—that some flowers consist o f
three or of five equal sets of organs, similarly and re­
gularly disposed, as the iris has three straight petals,
and three reflexed ones, alternately disposed, the rose
hasJive equal and similar sepals of the calyx, and alter­
nate with these, as many petals of the corolla. This
orderly and exactly similar distribution of two, or three,
or five, or any other number of parts, is Symmetry; and
according to its various modifications, the forms thus
determined are said to be symmetrical with various
numbers of members. The classification of these dif­
ferent kinds of symmetry has been most attended to in
Crystallography, in which science it is the highest and
most general principle by which the classes of forms
are governed. Without entering far into the techni­
calities of the subject, we may point out some of the
features of such classes.
figure represents the summit of a pyramid, and the
spaces of various forms which diverge from this point
represents sloping sides of the pyramid. Now it will be
observed that the figure consists of three portions exactly
similar to one another, and that each part or member is
The first of the figures (1) in
/j the margin may represent the
^ summit of a crystal as it ap-
^ j pears to an eye looking directly
down upon it; the center of the
Digitized by Google
repeated in each of these portions. The faces, or pairs
of faces, are repeated in t
h,with exac
forms and angles. This figure is said to be
hered, or to have triangular symmetry. The same kind
of symmetry may exist in a flower, as presented in the
accompanying figure, and does, in fact, occur in a large
class of flowers, as for example, all the lily tribe. The
next pair of figures (2) have four equal and similar por­
tions, and have their members or
pairs of members four times re­
peated. Such figures are termed
four-membered, and are said to
have square or tetragonal sym­
metry. The pentagonal symme­
try, formed by five similar mem­
bers, is represented in the next
figures (3). It occurs abundantly
in the vegetable world, but never
among crystals; for the pen­
tagonal figures which crystals
sometimes assume, are never ex­
actly regular. But there is still
another kind of symmetry (4) in
which the opposite ends are ex­
actly similar to each other and
also the opposite sides; this is
oblong,or tmo-and-trco-membered
symmetry. And finally, we have
the case of simple symmetry (5)
in which the two sides of the
object are exactly alike (in op­
posite positions) without any
further repetition.
3. These different kinds of symmetry occur in various
ways in the animal, vegetable, and mineral kingdom;
EXPLICATION OF THE IDEA OF SYMMETRY. 4 4 1
Digitized by Google
4 4 2 PHILOSOPHY OF MORPHOLOGY.
thus vertebrate animals have a right and a left side
exactly alike, and thus possess simple symmetry The
same kind of symmetry (simple symmetry) occurs very
largely in the forms of vegetables, as in most leaves, in
p a p i l i o n a c e o u s , p
e
r
s
o
n
a
t
e
, and labiate flowers. Amo
minerals, crystals which possess this symmetry are called
oblique-prismatic, and are of very frequent occurrence.
The oblong, or tm>-and-tm>menibered symmet
to right-prismatic crystals; and may be seen in cruci­
ferous flowers, for though these are cross-shaped, the
cross has two longer and two shorter arms, or pairs of
arms. The square or tetragonal symmetry occurs in
crystals abundantly; to the vegetable world it appears
to be less congenial; for though there are flowers with
four exactly similar and regularly-disposed petals, as the
herb Paris ( Parisquadri/olia), these flowers appear
from various circumstances, to be deviations from the
usual type of vegetable forms. The trigonal, or three-
membered symmetry is found abundantly both in plants
and in crystals, while the pentagonal symmetry, on the
other hand, though by far the most common among
flowers, nowhere occurs in minerals, and does not appear
to be a possible form of crystals. This pentagonal form
further occurs in the animal kingdom, which the oblong,
triangular, and square forms do not. Many of Cuvier’s
radiate animals appear in this pentagonal form, as
echini and pentacrinites, which latter have hence their
name.
4. The regular, or as they may be called, the normal
types of the vegetable world appear to be the forms
which possess triangular and pentagonal symmetry;
from these the others may be conceived to be derived,
by transformations resulting from the expansion of one
or more parts. Thus it is manifest that if in a three-
membered or five-membered flower, one of the petals be
Digitized by Google
expanded more than the other, it is immediately reduced
from pentagonal or trigonal, to simple symmetry. And
the oblong or two-and-two membered symmetry of the
flowers of cruciferous plants, (in which the stamens are
four large and two small ones, arranged in regular
opposition,) is held by botanists to result from a normal
form with ten stamens; Meinecke explaining this by
adhesion, and Sprengel by the metamorphosis of the
stamens into petals*.
It is easy to see that these various kinds of symmetry
include relations both of form and of number, but more
especially of the latter kind; and as this symmetry is
often an important character in various classes of natural
objects, such classes have often curious numerical pro­
perties. One of the most remarkable and extensive of
these is the distinction which prevails between mono-
cotyledonous and dicotyledonous plants; the number
three being the ground of the symmetry of the former,
and the number Jive, of the latter. Thus liliaceous and
bulbous plants, and the like, have flowers of three or
six petals, and the other organs follow the same num­
bers : while the vast majority of plants are pentandrous,
and with their five stamens have also their other parts
in fives. This great numerical distinction corresponding
to a leading difference of physiological structure cannot
but be considered as a highly curious fact in phytology.
Such properties of numbers, thus connected in an incom­
prehensible manner with fundamental and extensive
laws of nature, give to numbers an appearance of mys­
terious importance and efficacy. We learn from history
how strongly the study of such properties, as they are
exhibited by the phenomena of the heavens, took posses­
sion of the mind of Kepler; perhaps it was this which,
at an earlier period, contributed in no small degree to
• Sprcngrl, Gesch. d. B o ln. 304.
EXPLICATION OF THE IDEA OF SYMMETRY. 4 4 3
Digitized by Google
444 PHILOSOPHY OF MORPHOLOGY.
the numerical mysticism of the Pythagoreans in anti­
quity, and of the Arabians and others in the middle
ages. In crystallography, numbers are the primary
characters in which the properties of substances are
expressed;—they appear, first, in that classification of
forms which depends on the degree of symmetry, that
is, upon the number of correspondencies; and next, in
the laws of derivation, which, for the most part, appear
to be common in their occurrence in proportion to the
numerical simplicity of their expression. But the mani­
festation of a governing numerical relation in the or­
ganic world strikes us as more unexpected; and the
selection of the number fiveas the in
metry of dicotyledonous plants and radiated animals, (a
number which is nowhere symmetrically produced in
inorganic bodies,) makes this a new and remarkable
illustration of the constancy of numerical relations. We
may observe, however, that the moment one of these
radiate animals has one of its five members expanded,
or in any way peculiarly modified, (as happens among
the echini) it is reduced to the common type of animals
simply symmetrical, with a right and left side.
5. It is not necessary to attempt to enumerate all the
kinds of Symmetry, since our object is only to explain
what Symmetry is, and for this purpose enough has
probably been said already. It will be seen, as soon as
the notion of Symmetry in general is well apprehended,
that it is or includes a peculiar Fundamental Idea, not
capable of being resolved into any of the ideas hitherto
examined. It may be said, perhaps, that the Idea of
Symmetry is a modification or derivative of our ideas of
space and number;—that a symmetrical shape is one
which consists of parts exactly similar, repeated a cer­
tain number of times, and placed so as to correspond
with each other. But on further reflection it will be
seen that this repetition and correspondence of parts in'
symmetrical figures are something peculiar; for it is not
any repetition or any correspondence of parts to which
we should give the name of symmetry, in the manner in
which we are now using the term. Symmetrical arrange­
ments may, no doubt, be concerned with space and posi­
tion, time and number; but there appears to be implied
in them a Fundamental Idea of regularity, of complete­
ness, of complex simplicity, which is not a mere modifi­
cation of other ideas.
6. It is, however, not necessary, in this and in similar
cases to determine whether the idea which we have
before us be a peculiar and independent Fundamental
Idea or a modification of other ideas, provided we clearly
perceive the evidence of those Axioms by means of
which the Idea is applied in scientific reasonings. Now
in the application of the Idea of Symmetry to crystallo­
graphy, phytology and zoology, we must have this idea
embodied in some principle which asserts more than a
mere geometrical or numerical accordance of members.
We must have it involved in some vital or productive
action, in order that it may connect and explain the facts
of the organic world. Nor is it difficult to enunciate such
a principle. We may state it in this manner. AU, the sym­
metrical members of a natural product , under like
circumstances, alike affected by the natural formative
power. The parts which we have termed symmetrical,
resemble each other, not only in their form and position,
but also in the manner in which they are produced and
modified by natural causes. And this principle we assume
to be necessarily true, however unknown and inconceiv­
able may be the causes which determine the phenomena.
Thus it has not yet been found possible to discover or re­
present to ourselves, in any intelligible manner, the forces
by which the various faces of a crystal are consequent
EXPLICATION OF THE IDEA OF SYMMETRY. 445
Digitized by Google
4 4 6 PHILOSOPHY OF MORPHOLOGY.
upon its primary form; but the whole of crystallography
rests upon this principle, that if one of the primary planes
or axes be modified in any manner, all the symmetrical
planes and axes must be modified in the same manner.
And though accidental mechanical or other causes may
interfere with the actual exhibition of such faces, we do
not the less assume their crystallographical reality, as
inevitably implied in the law of symmetry of the cry­
stal*. And we apply similar considerations to organized
beings. We assume that in a regular flower, each of
the similar members has the same organization and
similar powers of developement; and hence if among
these similar parts some are much less developed than
others, we consider them as abortive; and if we wish
to remove doubts as to what are symmetrical members
in such a case, we make the inquiry by tracing the ana­
tomy of these members, or by following them in their
earlier states of developement, or in cases where their
capabilities are magnified by monstrosity or otherwise.
The power of developement may be modified by exter­
nal causes, and thus we may pass from one kind of sym­
metry to another; as we have already remarked. Thus
a regular flower with pentagonal symmetry, growing on
a lateral branch, has one petal nearest to the axis of the
plant: if this petal be more or less expanded than the
others, the pentagonal symmetry is interfered with, and
the flower may change to a symmetry of another kind.
But it is easy to see that all such conceptions of expan­
sion, abortion, and any other kind of metamorphosis, go
upon the supposition of identical faculties and tenden­
cies in each similar member, in so far as such tendencies
* Some crystalline forms, instead of being holohedral (provided
with their whole number of faces), are hemihedral (provided with only
half their number of faces). But in these hemihedral form9 the half
of the faces are still symmetrically suppressed.
Digitized by Google
have any relation to the symmetry. And thus the prin­
ciple we have stated above is the basis of that which, in
the History, we termed the Principle of Developed and
Metamorphosed Symmetry. '
We shall not at present pursue the other applications
of this Idea of Symmetry, but we shall consider some of
the results of its introduction into Crystallography.
EXPLICATION OF THE IDEA OF SYMMETRY. 4 4 7
Chapter II.
APPLICATION OF TH E IDEA OF SY M M ETRY
TO CRYSTALS.
1. Minerals and other bodies of definite chemical
composition often exhibit that marked regularity of form
and structure which we designate by terming them
Crystals; and in such crystals, when we duly study them,
we perceive the various kinds of symmetry of which we
have spoken in the previous chapter. And the different
kinds of symmetry which we have there described are
now usually distinguished from each other, by writers
on crystallography. Indeed it is mainly to such writers
that we are indebted for a sound and consistent classifi­
cation of the kinds and degrees of symmetry of which
forms are capable. But this classification was by no
means invented as soon as mineralogists applied them­
selves to the study of crystals. These first attempts to
arrange crystalline forms were very imperfect; those,
for example, of Linnaeus, Werner, Romd de Lisle, and
Haiiy. The essays of these writers implied a classifica­
tion at once defective and superfluous. They reduced
all crystals to one or other of certain fundamental
f a r m s ;and this procedure might have been a perfectly
good method of dividing crystalline forms into classes,
Digitized by Google
4 4 8 PHILOSOPHY OF MORPHOLOGY.
if the fundamental forms had been selected so as to ex­
emplify the different kinds of symmetry. But this was
not the case. Haiiy’s fundamental or “primitive” forms,
were, for instance, the following: the parallelepiped,
the octahedron, the tetrahedron, the regular hexagonal
prism , the rhombic dodecahedron, and the double hexa­
gonal pyram id. Of these, the octahedron, the tetra­
hedron, the rhombic dodecahedron, all belong to the
same kind of symmetry (the tessular systems); also
the hexagonal p rism and the hexagonal p y r a m id both
belong to the rhombic system ; while the parallelepiped
is so employed as to include all kinds of symmetry.
It is, however, to be recollected that Hauy, in his
selection of primitive forms, not only had an eye to the
external form of the crystal and to its degree and
kind of regularity, but also made his classification with
an especial reference to the cleavage of the mineral,
which he considered as a primary element in crystalline
analysis. There can be no doubt that the cleavage of a
crystal is one of its most important characters: it is a
relation of form belonging to the interior, which is to be
attended to no less than the form of the exterior. But
still, the cleavage is to be regarded only as determining
the degree of geometrical symmetry of the body, and not
as defining a special geometrical figure to which the
body must be referred. To have looked upon it in the
latter light, was a mistake of the earlier crystallographic
speculators, on which we shall shortly have to remark.
2. I have said that the reference of crystals to Pri­
mitive Forms might have been well employed as a mode
of expressing a just classification of them. This follows
as a consequence from the application of the Principle
stated in the last chapter, that all sym m etrical mem­
bers are alike affected. Thus we may take an upright
triangular prism as the representative of the rhombic
Digitized by C j O C K ^ l 0
IDEA OF SYMMETRY IN CRYSTALS. 4 4 9
system, and if we then suppose one of the upper edges
to be cut off, or truncated, we must, by the Principle of
Symmetry, suppose the other two upper edges to be
truncated in precisely the same manner. By this trun­
cation we may obtain the upper part of a rhombohedron;
and by truncations of the same kind, symmetrically
affecting all the analogous parts of the figure, we may
obtain any other form possessing three-membered sym­
metry. And the same is true of any of the other kinds
of symmetry, provided we make a proper selection of a
fundamental form. And this was really the method
employed by Demeste, Werner, and Rom£* de Lisle.
They assumed a Primitive Form, and then conceived
other forms, such as they found in nature, to be derived
from the Primitive Form by truncation of the edges,
acumination of the corners, and the like processes. This
mode of conception was a perfectly just and legitimate
expression of the general Idea of Symmetry.
3. The true view of the degrees of symmetry was, as I
have already said, impeded by the attempts which Haiiy
and others made to arrive at primitive forms by the light
which cleavage was supposed to throw upon the structure
of minerals. At last, however, in Germany, as I have
narrated in the History of Mineralogy*, Weiss and Mohs
introduced a classification of forms implying a more phi­
losophical principle, dividing the forms into System s;
which, employing the terms of the latter writer, we shall
call the tessular, the pyram idal or square pyram idal,
the prism atic or oblong, and the rhombohedral systems.
Of these forms, the three latter may be at once
referred to those kinds of symmetry of which we have
spoken in the last chapter. The rhombohedral system
has triangular symmetry, or is three-membered: the
p yram idal has square symmetry, or is four-membered:
* Hist. Ind. S c i B. xv. c. iv
VOL. i. w . p . G o
Digitized by Googk
4 5 0 PHILOSOPHY OF MORPHOLOGY.
the prismatichas oblong symmetry, and is two-and-two-
membered. But the kinds of symmetry which were
spoken of in the former chapter, do not exhaust the idea
when applied to minerals. For the symmetry which was
there explained was such only as can be exhibited on a
surface, whereas the forms of crystals are solid. Not
only have the right and left parts of the upper surface of
a crystal relations to each other; but the upper surface
and the lateral faces of the crystal have also their rela­
tions; they may be different, or they may be alike.
If we take a cube, and hold it so that four of its faces
are vertical, not only are all these four sides exactly simi­
lar, so as to give square symmetry; but also we may turn
the cube, so that any one of these four sides shall become
the top, and still the four sides which are thus made
vertical, though not the same which were vertical before,
are still perfectly symmetrical. Thus this cubical figure
possesses more than square symmetry. It possesses
square symmetry in a vertical as well as in a horizontal
sense. It possesses a symmetry which has the same
relation to a cube which four-merabered symmetry has to
a square. And this kind of symmetry is termed the
cubical or tessular symmetry. All the other kinds of
symmetry have reference to an axis, about which the
corresponding parts are disposed; but in tessular sym­
metry the horizontal and vertical axes are also symme­
trical, or interchangeable; and thus the figure may be
said to have no axis at all.
4. It has already been repeatedly stated that, by the
very idea of symmetry, all the incidents of form must
affect alike all the corresponding parts. Now in crystals
we have, among these incidents, not only external figure,
but cleavage, which may be considered as internal figure.
Cleavage, then, must conform to the degree of symmetry
of the figure. Accordingly cleavage, no less than form, is
Digitized by Googk
IDEA OF SYMMETRY IN CRYSTALS. 451
to be attended to in determining to what system a mineral
belongs. If a crystal were to occur as a square prism or
pyramid, it would not on that account necessarily belong
to the square pyramidal system. If it were found that
it was cleavable parallel to one side of the prism, but not
in the transverse direction, it has only oblong symmetry;
and the equality of the sides which makes it square is
only accidental.
Thus no cleavage is admissible in any system of
crystallization which does not agree with the degree of
symmetry of the system. On the other hand, any cleavage
which is consistent with the symmetry of the system, is
(hypothetically at least) allowable. Thus in the oblong
prismatic system we may have a cleavage parallel to one
side only of the prism; or parallel to both, but of differ­
ent distinctness; oy parallel to the two diagonals of the
prism but of the same distinctness; or we may have both
these cleavages together. In the rhombohedral system,
the cleavage may be parallel to the sides of the rhombo-
hedron, as in Calc Spar: or, in the same system, the
cleavage, instead of being thus oblique to the axis,
may be along the axis in those directions which make
equal angles with each other: this cleavage easily gives
either a triangular or a hexagonal prism. Again, in the
tessular system, the cleavage may be parallel to the sur­
face of the cube, which is thus readily separable into
other cubes, as in Galena; or the cleavage may be such
as to cut off the solid angle of the cube, and since there
are eight of these, such cleavage gives us an octahedron,
which, however, may be reduced to a tetrahedron, by
rejecting all parallel faces, as being mere repetitions of
the same cleavage; this is the case with Fluor Spar :
or the cube of the tessular system may be cleavable in
planes which truncate all the edges of the cube; and as
these are twelve, we thus obtain the dodecahedron with
G G 2
Digitized by Googk
452 PHILOSOPHY OF MORPHOLOGY.
rhombic faces: this occurs in Zinc Blende. And thus
we see the origin of Haiiy’s various primitive forms, the
tetrahedron, octahedron, and rhombic dodecahedron, all
belonging to the tessular system:—they are, in fact, dif­
ferent cleavage forms of that system.
5. I do not dwell upon other incidents of crystals
which have reference to form, nor upon the lustre,
smoothness, and striation of the surfaces. To all such
incidents the general principle applies, that similar parts
are similarly affected; and hence, if any parts are found
to be constantly and definitely different from other parts
of the same sort, they are not similar parts; and the
symmetry is to be interpreted with reference to this
difference.
We have now to consider the inferences which have
been drawn from these incidents of crystallization, with
regard to the intimate structure of bodies.
Chapter III.
SPECULATIONS FOUNDED UPON T H E
SY M M ETRY OF CRYSTALS.
1. When a crystal, as, for instance, a crystal of galena,
(sulphuret of lead,) is readily divisible into smaller cubes,
and these into smaller ones, and so on without limit, it is
very natural to represent to ourselves the original cube as
really consisting of small cubical elements; and to imagine
that it is a philosophical account of the physical structure
of such a substance to say that it is made up of cubical
molecules. And when the galena crystal has externally
the form of a cube, there is no difficulty in such a con­
ception ; for the surface of the crystal is also conceived
as made up of the surfaces of its cubical molecules. We
Digitized by Google
SPECULATIONS ON THE SYMMETRY OF CRYSTALS. 4 5 3
conceive the crystal so constituted, as we conceive a wall
built of bricks.
But if, as often happens, the galena crystal be an
octahedron, a further consideration is requisite in order
to understand its structure, pursuing still the same hypo­
thesis. The mineral is still, as in the other case, readily
cleavable into small cubes, having their corners turned
to the faces of the octahedron. Therefore these faces
can no longer be conceived as made up of the faces of
cubical elements of which the whole is constituted. If
we suppose a pile of such small cubes to be closely built
together, but with decreasing width above, so as to form
a pyramid, the face of such a pyramid will no longer be
plane; it will consist of a great number of the corners
or edges of the small elementary cubes. It would ap­
pear at first sight, therefore, that such a face cannot
represent the smooth polished surface of a crystal.
But when we come to look more closely, this diffi­
culty disappears. For how large are these elementary
cubes? We cannot tell, even supposing they really have
any size. But we know that they must be, at any rate,
very small; so small as to be inappreciable by our senses,
for our senses find no limit to the divisibility of minerals
by cleavage. Hence the surface of the pyramid above
described would not consist of visible corners or edges,
but would be roughened by specks of imperceptible size;
or rather, by supposing these specks to become still
smaller, the roughness becomes smoothness. And thus
we may have a crystal with a smooth surface, made up of
small cubes in such a manner that their surfaces are all
oblique to the surface of the crystal.
Haliy, struck by some instances in which the suppo­
sition of such a structure of crystals appeared to account
happily for several of their relations and properties,
adopted and propounded it as a general theory. The
Digitized by Google
454 PHILOSOPHY OF MORPHOLOGY.
small elements, of which he supposed crystals to be thus
built up, he termed integrant molecules. The form of
these molecules might or might not be the same as the
primitiveform with which his construction was supposed
to begin; but there was, at any rate, a close connexion
between these forms, since both of them were founded
on the cleavage of the mineral. The tenet that crystals
are constituted in the manner which I have been de­
scribing, I shall call the Theory of Integrant ,
and I have now to make some remarks on the grounds
of this theory.
2. In the case of which I have spoken, the mineral
used as the example, galena, readily splits into cubes, and
cubes are easily placed together so as to fit eat other,
and fill the space which they occupy. The same is the
case in the mineral which suggested to Haiiy his theory,
namely, calc spar. The crystals of this substance are
readily divisible into rhombohedrons, a form like a brick
with oblique angles; and such bricks can be built to­
gether so as to produce crystals of all the immense
varieties of form which calc spar presents. This kind of
masonry is equally possible in many other minerals; but
as we go through the mineral kingdom in our survey, we
soon find cases which offer difficulties. Some minerals
cleave only in two directions, some in one only; in such
cases we cannot by cleavage obtain an integrant mole­
cule of definite form; one of its dimensions, at least,
must remain indeterminate and arbitrary. Again, in
some instances, we have more than three different planes
of cleavage, as in fluor spar, where we have four. The
solid, bounded by four planes, is a tetrahedron; or if we
take four pairs of parallel faces, an octahedron. But if
we attempt to take either of these forms for our inte­
grant molecule, we are met by this difficulty: that a col­
lection of such forms will not fill space. Perhaps this
Digitized by Googk
difficulty will be more readily conceived by the general
reader if it be contemplated with reference to plane
figures. It will readily be seen that a number of equal
squares may be put together so as to fill the space which
they occupy; but if we take a number of equal regular
octagons, we may easily convince ourselves that no pos­
sible arrangement can make them cover a flat space with­
out leaving blank spots between. In like manner octa­
hedrons or tetrahedrons cannot be arranged in solid space
so as to fill it. They necessarily leave vacancies. Hence
the structure of fluor spar, and similar crystals, was a
serious obstacle in the way of the theory of integrant
molecules. That theory had been adopted in the first
instance because portions of the crystal, obtained by
cleavage, could be built up into a solid mass; but this
ground of the theory failed altogether in such instances
as I have described, and hence the theory, even upon the
representations of its adherents, had no longer any claim
to assent.
The doctrine of Integral Molecules, however, was by
no means given up at once, even in such instances. In
this and in other subjects, we may observe that a theory,
once constructed and carried into detail, has such a hold
upon the minds of those who have been in the habit of
applying it, that they will attempt to uphold it by intro­
ducing suppositions inconsistent with the original founda­
tions of the theory. Thus those who assert the atomic
theory, reconcile it with facts by taking the halves of
atoms; and thus the theory of integrant molecules was
maintained for fluor spar, by representing the elemen­
tary octahedrons of which crystals are built up, as
touching each other only by the edges. The contact
of surface with surface amongst integrant molecules had
been the first basis of the theory; but this supposition
being here inapplicable, was replaced by one which
SPECULATIONS ON THE SYMMETRY OF CRYSTALS. 4 5 5
Digitized by Google
456 PHILOSOPHY OF MORPHOLOGY.
made the theory no longer a representation of the
facts (the cleavages), but a mere geometrical construc­
tion. Although, however, the inapplicability of the
theory to such cases was thus, in some degree, disguised
to the disciples of Haiiy, it was plain that, in the face of
such difficulties, the Theory of Integrant Molecules could
not hold its place as a philosophical truth. But it still
answered the purpose (a very valuable one, and one to
which crystallography is much indebted,) of an instru­
ment for calculating the geometrical relations of the parts
of crystals to each other: for the integrant molecules
were supposed to be placed layer above layer, each layer
as we ascend, decreasing by a certain number of mole­
cules and rows of molecules; and the calculation of these
laws of decrement was, in fact, the best mode then known
of determining the positions of the faces. The Theory
of Decrements served to express and to determine, in
a great number of the most obvious cases, the laws of
phenomena in crystalline forms, though the Theory of
Integrant Morecules could not be maintained as a just
view of the structure of crystals.
3. The Theory of Integrant Molecules, however, in­
volved this just and important principle: that a true view
of the intimate structure of crystals must include and
explain the facts of crystallization, that is, crystalline
form and cleavage; and that it must take these into
account, according to their degree of symmetry. So far
all theories concerning the elements of crystals must
agree. And it was soon seen that this was, in reality, all
that had been established by the investigations of Haiiy
and his school. I have already, in the History, quoted
Weiss’s reflections on making this step. “ When in
1809,” he says*, “ I published my Dissertation, I shared
the common opinion as to the necessity of the assump-
• Acad. Berlin. 1816. p. 307-
Digitized by Google
tion, and the reality of the existence of a primitive form,
at least in a sense not very different from the usual sense
of the expression.” He then proceeds to relate that he
sought a ground for such an opinion, independent of the
doctrine of atoms, which he, in common with a great
number of philosophers of that time in his own country,
was disposed to reject, inclining to believe that the pro­
perties of bodies were determined by farces which acted
in them, and not by molecules of which they were com­
posed. He adds, that in pursuing this train of thought,
he found, “that out of his primitive forms there was gra-
' dually unfolded to his hands that which really governs
them, and is not affected by their casual fluctuations;
namely, the fundamental relations of their Dimensions,”
or as we now may call them, Axes qf Symmetry. With
reference to these axes, he found, as he goes on to say,
that “ a multiplicity of internal oppositions, necessarily
and mutually interdependent, are developed in the crys­
talline mass, each relation having its own polarity; so
that the crystalline character is co-extensive with these
polarities.” The character of these polarities, whether
manifested in crystalline faces, cleavage, or any other
incidents of crystallization, is necessarily displayed in the
degree and kind of symmetry which the crystal possesses:
and thus this symmetry, in all our speculations concern­
ing the structure of crystals, necessarily takes the place
of that enumeration of primitive forms which were re­
jected as inconsistent with observed facts, and destitute
of sound scientific principle.
I may just notice here what I have stated in the
History of Mineralogy*, that the distinction of systems
of crystallization, as introduced by Weiss and Mohs, was
strikingly confirmed by Sir David Brewster’s discoveries
respecting the optical properties of minerals. The splen-
* Hist. Ind. S e t B. xv. c. v.
SPECULATIONS ON THE SYMMETRY OF CRYSTALS. 457
Digitized by Google
458 PHILOSOPHY OF MORPHOLOGY.
did phenomena which were produced by passing polarized
light through crystals, were found to vary according as
the crystals were of the rhombohedral, square pyramidal,
oblong prismatic, or tessular system. The optical ex­
actly corresponded with the geometrical symmetry. In
the two former systems were crystals uniaxal in respect
of their optical properties; the oblong prismatic was
biaxal; while in the tessular, the want of a predominant
axis prevented the phenomena here spoken of from oc­
curring at all. The optical experiments must have led
to a classification of crystals into the above systems or
something nearly equivalent, even had they not been
already so arranged by attention to their forms.
4. While in Germany Weiss and Mohs with their
disciples, were gradually rejecting what was superfluous
in the previous crystallographical hypytheses, philoso­
phers in England wore also trying to represent to them­
selves the constitution of crystals in a manner which
should be free from the obviously arbitrary and untenable
fictions of the Haiiyian school. These attempts, how­
ever, were not crowned with much success. One mode
of representing the structure of crystals which suggested
itself, was to reject the polyhedral forms which Haiiy gave
to his integrant molecules, and to conceive the elements
of crystals as spheres, the properties of the crystal being
determined not by the surfaces, but by the position of
the elements. This was done by Wollaston, in the Phi­
losophical Transactions for 1813. He applied this view’
to the tessular system, in which, indeed, the application
is not difficult; and he showed that octahedral and tetra­
hedral figures may be deduced from symmetrical ar­
rangements of equal spherules. But though in doing
this, he manifested a perception of the conditions of the
problem, he appeared to lose his hold on the real ques­
tion when he tried to pass on to other systems of
Digitized by Googk
crystallization. For he accounted for the rhombohedral
system by supposing the spheres changed into spheroids.
Such a procedure involved him in a gratuitous and use­
less hypothesis: for to what purpose do we introduce
the arrangement of atoms (instead of their figure,) as a
mode of explaining the symmetry of the crystallization,
when at the next step we ascribe to the atom, by an
arbitrary fiction, a symmetry of figure of the same kind
as that which we have to explain ? It is just as easy,
and as allowable, to assume an elementary rhombohe-
dron, as to assume elementary spheroids, of which the
rhombohedrons are constructed.
5. Many hypotheses of the same kind might be
adduced, devised both by mineralogists and chemists.
But almost all such speculations have been pursued
with a most surprizing neglect of the principle which
obviously is the only sound basis on which they can pro­
ceed. The principle is this:—that A ll hypotheses con­
cerning the arrangem ent o f the elementary atoms o f
bodies in space m ust be constructed with reference to the
general fa c ts o f crystallization. The truth and import­
ance of this principle can admit of no doubt. For if we
make any hypothesis concerning the mode of connexion
of the elementary particles of bodies, this must be done
with the view of representing to ourselves the forces
which connect them, and the results of these forces as
manifested in the properties of the bodies. Now the
forces which connect the particles of bodies so as to
make them crystalline, are manifestly chemical forces.
It is only definite chemical compounds which crystallize;
and in crystals the force of cohesion by which the par­
ticles are held together cannot in any way be distin­
guished or separated from the chemical force by which
their elements are combined. The elements are under­
stood to be combined, precisely because the result is
SPECULATIONS ON THE SYMMETRY OF CRYSTALS. 4 5 9
Digitized by Google
460 PHILOSOPHY OK MORPHOLOGY.
a definite, apparently homogeneous substance. The
properties of the compound bodies depend upon the
elements and their mode of combination; for, in fact,
these include everything on which they can depend.
There are no other circumstances than these which can
affect the properties of a body. Therefore all those pro­
perties which have reference to space, namely, the cry­
stalline properties, cannot depend upon anything else
than the arrangement of the elementary molecules in
space. These properties are the facts which any hypo­
thesis of the arrangement of molecules must explain, or
at least render conceivable; and all such hypotheses, all
constructions of bodies by supposed arrangements of
molecules, can have no other philosophical object than to
account for facts of this kind. If they do not do this, they
are mere arbitrary geometrical fictions, which cannot be
in any degree confirmed or authorized by an examination
of nature, and are therefore not deserving of any regard.
6. Those philosophers who have endeavoured to
represent the mode in which bodies are constructed by
the combination of their chemical atoms, have often un­
dertaken to show, not only that the atoms are combined,
but also in what positions and configurations they are
combined. And it is truly remarkable, as I have already
said, that they have done this, almost in every instance,
without any consideration of the crystalline character of
the resulting combinations; from which alone we receive
any light as to the relation of their elements in space.
Thus Dr. Dalton, in his Elements of Chemistry, in which
he gave to the world the Atomic Theory as a representa­
tion of the doctrine of definite and multiple proportions,
also published a large collection of Diagrams, exhibiting
what he conceived to be the configuration of the atoms
in a great number of the most common combinations
of chemical elements. Now these hypothetical diagrams
Digitized by Googk
SPECULATIONS ON THE SYMMETRY OF CRYSTALS. 4 61
do not in any way correspond, as to the nature of their
symmetry, with the compounds, as we find them dis­
playing their symmetry when they occur crystallized.
Carbonate of lime has in reality a triangular symmetry,
since it belongs to the rhombohedral system; Dr. Dalton’s
carbonate of lime would be an oblique rhombic prism
or pyramid. Sulphate of baryta is really two-and-two
membered ; Dr. Dalton’s diagram makes it two-and-one
membered. Alum is really octahedral or tessular ; but
according to the diagram it could not be so, since the
two ends of the atom are not symmetrical. And the
same want of correspondence between the facts and the
hypothesis runs through the whole system, It need not
surprize us that the theoretical arrangement of atoms
does not explain the facts of crystallization ; for to pro­
duce such an explanation would be a second step in
science quite as great as the first, the discovery of the
atomic theory in its chemical sense. But we may allow
ourselves to be surprized that an utter discrepance be­
tween all the facts of crystallization and the figures
assumed in the theory, did not suggest any doubt as to
the soundness of the mode of philosophizing by which
this part of the theory was constructed.
7. Some little accordance between the hypothetical
arrangements of chemical atoms and the facts of crystal­
lization, does appear to have been arrived at by some of
the theorists to whom we here refer, although by no
means enough to show a due conviction of the importance
of the principle stated above. Thus Wollaston, in the
Essay above noticed, after showing that a symmetrical
arrangement of equal spherules would give rise to octa­
hedral and other tessular figures, remarks, very properly,
that the metals, which are simple bodies, crystallize in
such forms. M. Ampère* also, in 1814, published a
• Ann. de Chimie, tom. xc. p. 43.
Digitized by Google
4 6 2 PHILOSOPHY OF MORPHOLOGY.
brief account of an hypothesis of a somewhat similar
nature, and stated himself to have developed this specu­
lation in a Memoir which has not yet, so far as I am
aware, been published. In this notice he conceives
bodies to be compounded of molecules, which, arranged
in a polyhedral form, constitute particles. These repre­
sentativeforms of the particles depend on chemical laws.
Thus the particles of oxygen, of hydrogen, and of azote,
are composed each of four molecules. Hence it is col­
lected that the particles of nitrous gas are composed of
two molecules of oxygen and two of azote; and similar
conclusions are drawn respecting other substances. These
conclusions, though expressed by means of the polyhe­
drons thus introduced, are supported by chemical, rather
than by crystallographical comparisons. The author
does, indeed, appeal to the crystallization of sal am­
moniac as an argument*; but as all the forms which
he introduces appear to belong to the tessular system
of crystallization, there is, in his reasonings, nothing
distinctive; and therefore nothing, crystallographically
speaking, of any weight on the side of this theory.
8. Any hypothesis which should introduce any
principle of chemical order among the actual forms of
minerals, would well deserve attention. At first sight,
nothing can appear more anomalous than the forms
which occur. We have, indeed, one broad fact, which
has an encouraging aspect, the tessular forms in which
the pure metals crystallize. The highest degree of che­
mical and of geometrical simplicity coincide: irregularity
disappears precisely where it is excluded by the consi­
deration above stated, that the symmetry of chemical
composition must determine the symmetry of crystalline
form*.
* Ann. de Chimiey tom. xc. p. 83.
t Inasmuch as this law, that the simple metals crystallize in tes-
Digitized by Google
SPECULATIONS ON THE SYMMETRY OF CRYSTALS. 4 6 3
But if we go on to any other class of crystalline
forms, we soon find ourselves lost in our attempts to
follow any thread of order. We have indeed many large
groups connected by obvious analogies; as the rhombo-
hedral carbonates of lime, magnesia, iron, manganese;—
the prismatic carbonates and sulphates of lime, baryta,
strontia, lead. But even in these, we cannot form any
plausible hypothesis of the arrangement of the elements»
and in other cases to which we naturally turn, we can
find nothing but confusion. For instance, if we examine
the oxides of metals:—those of iron are rhombohedral
and tessular; those of copper, tessular; those of tin,
of titanium, of manganese, square pyramidal; those of
antimony, prismatic; and we have other forms for other
substances.
It may be added, that if we take account of the
sular forms, is the most signal example of that connexion between the
chemical nature of a body and its crystalline form, I in the former
Edition stated it with as much generality as I could find any ground
for, and I should have been glad if I could have added confirmation of
the law, derived from later observations. But the most recent investi­
gations of crystallographers appear to have afforded exceptions rather
than examples of the rule. Arsenic and Tellurium are said to be rhom­
bohedral. Antimony, stated by Haiiy to be octahedral (and therefore
tessular), has been found by more modern observers to be rhombohedral.
Tin has been obtained by Professor Miller in beautiful crystals belonging
to the pyramidal system. Professor Noggerath has observed in Zinc,
after cooling from fusion, hexagonal cleavage, rendering it probable that
the mineral crystallized in rhombohedrons having their axes vertical,
like ice. G. Rose conceives it highly probable that Osmium and
Iridium are rhombohedral. (Puggendorf. Bd. liv.)
But all the more perfect metals are tessular; namely, Gold, Silver,
Mercury, Platinum, Iron, Copper; also Bismuth. Perhaps the observa­
tion in which the crystallization of Zinc is affected by its position is, on
that very account, no sufficient evidence of itsfree crystallization. We
can hardly conceive a collection of perfectly simple, similar particles to
crystallize so as to have one pre-eminent axis, without some extraneous
action affecting them.
Digitized by Googk
4 6 4 PHILOSOPHY OF MORPHOLOGY.
optical properties which, as we have already stated, have
constant relations to the crystalline forms, the confusion
is still further increased; for the optical dimensions vary
in amount, though not in symmetry, where chemistry
can trace no difference of composition.
9. We will not quit the subject, however, without
noticing the much more promising aspect which it has
assumed by the detection of such groups as are referred
to in the last article; or in other words, by Mitscher-
lich’s discovery of Isomorphism. According to that dis­
covery, there are various elements which may take the
place of each other in crystalline bodies, either without
any alteration of the crystalline form, or at most with
only a slight alteration of its dimensions. Such a group
of elements we have in the earths lime and magnesia,
the protoxides of iron and manganese: for the carbo­
nates of all these bases occur crystallized in forms of
the rhombohedral system, the characteristic angle being
nearly the same in all. Now lime and magnesia, by
the discoveries of modern chemistry, are really oxides of
metals; and therefore all these carbonates have a similar
chemical constitution, while they have also a similar
crystalline form. Whether or no we can devise any
arrangement of molecules by which this connexion of
the chemical and the geometrical property can be repre­
sented, we cannot help considering the connexion as an
extremely important fact in the constitution of bodies;
and such facts are more likely than any other to give
us some intelligible view of the relations of the ultimate
parts of bodies. The same may be said of all the other
isomorphous or plesiomorphous groups*. For instance,
we have a number of minerals which belong to the
same system of crystallization, but in which the chemical
composition appears at first sight to be very various:
* See Hist. Ind. S c i B. xv . c. vi.
Digitized by Google
SPECULATIONS ON THE SYMMETRY OF CRYSTALS. 4 6 5
namely, spinelle, pleonaste, gahnite, franklinite, chromic
iron oxide, magnetic iron oxide: but Abich has shown
that all these may be reduced to a common chemical
formula;—they are bioxides of one set of bases, com­
bined with trioxides of another set. Perhaps some
mathematician may be able to devise some geometrical
arrangement of such a group of elements which may
possess the properties of the tessular system. Hypothe­
tical arrangements of atoms, thus expressing both the
chemical and the crystalline symmetry which we know
to belong to the substance, would be valuable steps in
analytical science; and when they had been duly verified,
the hypotheses might easily be divested of their atomic
character.
Thus, as we have already said, mineralogy, under­
stood in its wider sense, as the counterpart of chemistry,
has for one of its main objects to discover those relations
of the elements of bodies which have reference to space.
In this research, the foundation of all sound speculation
is the kind and degree of symmetry of form which we
find in definite chemical compounds: and the problem
at present before the inquirer is, to devise such arrange­
ments of molecules as shall answer the conditions alike
of chemistry and of crystallography.
We now proceed to the Classificatory Sciences, of
which Mineralogy is one, though hitherto by far the
least successful.
V O L . i. w . p. Hir
Digitized by Google
46G
BOOK VIII.
THE PH ILO SO PH Y OF THE
CA T O R Y SCIENCES.
Chapter I.
THE IDEA OF LIKENESS AS GOVERNING THE
USE OF COMMON NAMES.
1. Object of the C
l
i
a
p
t
e
i
'
.
—Not only the Classifi
Sciences, but the application of names to things in the
rudest and most unscientific manner, depends upon our
apprehending them as like each other. We must there­
fore endeavour to trace the influence and operation of
the Idea of Likeness in the common use of language,
before we speak of the conditions under which it acquires
its utmost exactness and efficacy.
It will be my object to show in this, as in previous
cases, that the impressions of sense are apprehended by
acts of the mind; and that these mental acts necessarily
imply certain relations which may be made the subjects
of speculative reasoning. We shall have, if we can, to
seize and bring into clear view the principles which the
relation of like and unlike involves, and the mode in
which these principles have been developed.
2. Unity of the Individual.—But before we can attend
to several things as like or unlike, we must be able to
apprehend each of these by itself as one thing. It may at
first sight perhaps appear that this apprehension results
immediately from the impressions on our senses, without
Digitized by Googk
THE IDEA OF LIKENESS. 467
any act of our .thoughts. A very little attention, how­
ever, enables us to see that thus to single out special
objects requires a mental operation as well as a sensation.
How, for example, without an exertion of mental activity,
can we see one tree, in a forest where there are many? We
have, spread before us, a collection of colours and forms,
green and brown, dark and light, irregular and straight:
this is all that sensation gives or can give. But we asso­
ciate one brown trunk with one portion of the green mass,
excluding the rest, although the neighbouring leaves are
both nearer in contiguity and more similar in appearance
than is the stem. We thus have before us one tree; but
this unity is given by the mind itself. We see the green
and the brown, but we must the tree before we can
see it.
That this composition of our sensations so as to form
one thing implies an act of our own, will perhaps be
more readily allowed, if we once more turn our attention
to the manner in which we sometimes attempt to imitate
and record the objects of sight, by drawing. When we do
this, as we have already observed, we mark this unity of
each object, by drawing a line* to separate the parts
which we include from those which we exclude;—an
Outline. This line corresponds to nothing which we see;
the beginner in drawing has great difficulty in discern­
ing it; he has in fact to make it. It is, as has been said
by a painter of our own time*, a fiction: but it is a
fiction employed to mark a real act of the mind; to
designate the singleness of the object in our conception.
As we have said elsewhere, we see lines, but especially
outlines, by mentally drawing them ourselves.
The same act of conception which the outline thus
represents and commemorates in visible objects,—the
same combination of sensible impressions into a unit,—is
* Phillip« On P
a
i
n,
— Design.
H H 2
Digitized by Googk
exercised also with regard to the obj^pts of all our
senses: and the singleness thus given to each object, is
a necessary preliminary to its being named or repre­
sented in any other way.
But it may be said, Is it then by an arbitrary act of
our own that we put together the branches of the same
tree, or the limbs of the same animal ? Have we equally
the power and the right to make the branch of the fir a
part of the neighbouring oak ? Can we include in the
outline of a man any object with which he happens to
be in contact?
Such suppositions are manifestly absurd. And the
answer is, that though we give unity to objects by an
act of thought, it is not by an arbitrary act; but by a
process subject to certain conditions;—to conditions
which exclude such incongruous combinations as have
just been spoken of.
What are these conditions which regulate our appre­
hension of an object as one?—which determine what
portion of our impressions does, and what portion does
not belong to the same thing ?
3. Condition qf Unity.—I reply, that the primary and
fundamental condition is, that we must be able to make
intelligible assertions respecting the object, and to enter­
tain that belief of which assertions are the exposition. A
tree grows, sheds its leaves in autumn, and buds again in
the spring, wares in the wind, or before the storm.
And to the tree belong all those parts which must be
included in order that such declarations, and the thoughts
which they convey, shall have a coherent and permanent
meaning. Those are its branches which wave and fall with
its trunk; those are its leaves which grow on its branches.
The permanent connexions which we observe,—perma­
nent, among unconnected changes which affect the sur­
rounding appearances,—are what we bind together as
468 PHILOSOPHY OF THE CLASSIFICATORY SCIENCES.
Digitized by Google
THE IDEA OF LIKENESS. 469
belonging to one object. This permanence is the condi­
tion of our conceiving the object one. The connected
changes may always be described by means of assertions;
and the connexion is seen in the identity of the subject
of successive predications; in the possibility of applying
many verbs to one substantive. We may therefore ex­
press the condition of the unity of an object to be this:
that assertions concerning the object shall be possible: or
rather we should say, that the acts of belief which such
assertions enunciate shall be possible.
It may seem to be superfluous to put in a form so
abstract and remote, the grounds of a process apparently
so simple as our conceiving an object to be one. But
the same condition to which we have thus been led, as
the essential principle of the unity of objects, namely,
that propositions shall be possible, will repeatedly occur
in the present chapter; and it may serve to illustrate our
views, to show that this condition pervades even the
simplest cases.
4. Kinds.—The mental synthesis of which we have
thus spoken, gives us our knowledge of individual things;
it enables me to apprehend that particular tree or man
which I now see, or, by the help of memory, the tree or
the man I saw yesterday. But the knowledge with
which we have mainly here to do is not a knowledge of
individuals but of kinds; of such classes as are indicated
by common names. We have to make assertions con­
cerning a tree or a man in general, without regarding
what is peculiar to this man or that tree.
Now it is clear that certain individual objects are all
called man, or all called tree, in virtue of some resem­
blance which they have. If we had not the power of
perceiving in the appearances around us, likeness and
unlikeness, we could not consider objects as distributed
into kinds at all. The impressions of sense would throng
Digitized by Googk
upon us, but being uncompared with each other, they
would flow away like the waves of the sea, and each
vanish from our contemplation when the sensation faded.
That we do apprehend surrounding objects as belonging
to permanent kinds, as being men and horses, oaks and
roses, arises from our having the idea of likeness, and
from our applying it habitually, and so far as such a
classification requires.
Not only can we employ the idea of likeness in this
manner, but we apply it incessantly and universally to
the whole mass and train of our sensations. For we have
no external sensations to which we cannot apply some
language or other, and all language necessarily implies
recognition of resemblances. We cannot call an object
green or round without comparing in our thoughts its
colour or its shape, with a shape and a colour seen is
other objects. All our sensations, therefore, without any
exception of kind or time, are subject to this constant
process of classification; and the idea of likeness is per­
petually operating to distribute them into kinds, at least
so far as the use of language requires.
We come then again to the question, Upon what
principle, under what conditions, is the idea of likeness
thug operative ? What are the limits of the classes thus
formed ? Where does that similarity end, which induces
and entitles us to call a thing a t What universal
rule is there for the application of common names, so
that we may not apply them wrongly ?
5. Not made by Definitions.—Perhaps some one might
expect in answer to these inquiries a definition or a series
of definitions;—might imagine that some description of a
tree might be given which might show when the term
was applicable and when it was not; and that we might
construct a body of rules to which 6uch descriptions must
conform. But on consideration it will be clear that the
470 PHILOSOPHY OF THE CLASSIFICATOBY SCIENCES.
Digitized by Google
THE IDEA OF LIKENESS. 471
real solution of our difficulty cannot be obtained in such
a manner. For first;
such descriptions must be given
words, and therefore suppose that we have already satis­
fied ourselves how words are to be used. If we define a
tree to be “ a living thing without the power of voluntary
motion,” we shall be called upon to define “a living
thing;” and it is manifest that this renewal of the demand
for definition might be repeated indefinitely; and, there­
fore, we cannot in this way come to a final principle. And
in the next place, most of those who use language, even
with great precision and consistency, would find it diffi­
cult or impossible to give good definitions even of a few
of the general names which they use; and therefore
their practice cannot be regulated by any tacit reference
to such definitions. That definitions of terms are of
great use and importance in their right place, we shall
soon see; but their place is not to regulate the use of
common language.
What then, once more, is this regulative principle?
What rules do men follow in the use of words, so as
commonly to avoid confusion and ambiguity? How do
they come to understand each other so well as they
ordinarily do, respecting the limits of classes never de­
fined, and which they cannot define ? What is the com­
mon Convention, or Condition to which they conform ?
6. Condition of the Use of Terms.—To this we reply,
that the Condition which regulates the use of language,
is that it shall be capable of being- used;—that is, that
general assertions shall be possible. The term tree is
applicable as far as it is useful in expressing our know­
ledge concerning trees:—thus we know that trees are
fixed in the ground, have a solid stem, branches, leaves,
and many other properties. With regard to all the
objects which surround us, we have an immense store of
Digitized by Googk
knowledge of such properties, and we employ the names
of the objects in such a manner as enables us to express
these properties.
But the connexion of such properties is variable and
indefinite. Some properties are constantly combined,
others occasionally only. The leaves of different oaks
resemble each other, the branches resemble far less, and
may differ very widely. The term does not enable
us to say that all oaks have straight branches or all
crooked. Terms can only express properties as far as
they are constant. Not only, therefore, the accumula­
tion of a vast mass of knowledge of the properties and
attributes of objects, but also an observation of the
habitual connexion of such properties is needed, to direct
us to the consistent application of terms:—to enable us
to apply them so as to express truths. But here again
we are largely provided with the requisite knowledge
and observation by the common course of our existence.
The unintermitting stream of experience supplies us
with an incalculable amount of such observed connex­
ions. All men have observed that the associations of
the same form of leaves are more constant than of the
same form of branches;—that though persons walk in
different attitudes none go on all fours; and thus the
term oak is so applied as to include those cases in
which the leaves are alike in form though the branches
be unlike; and though we should refuse to apply the
term man to a class of creatures which habitually
and without compulsion used four legs, we make no
scruple of affixing it to persons of very different figures.
The whole of human experience being composed of such
observed connexions, we have thus materials even for
the immense multiplicity of names which human lan­
guage contains; all which names are, as we have said.
4 7 2 PHILOSOPHY OF THE CLASSIFICATORY SCIENCES.
Digitized by Googk
THE IDEA OF LIKENESS. 4 7 3
regulated in their application by the condition of ex­
pressing such experience.
Thus amid the countless combinations of properties
and divisions of classes which the structure of language
implies, scarcely any are arbitrary or capricious. A word
which expressed a mere wanton collection of unconnected
attributes could hardly be called a ; for of such a
collection of properties no truth could be asserted, and
the word would disappear, for want of some occasion on
which it could be used. Though much of the fabric of
language appears, not unnaturally, fantastical and purely
conventional, it is in fact otherwise. The associations
and distinctions of phraseology are not more fanciful than
is requisite to make them correspond to the apparent
caprices of nature or of thought; and though much in
language may be called conventional, the conventions
exist for the sake of expressing some truth or opinion,
and not for their own sake. The principle, that the con­
dition of the use of terms is the possibility of ,
intelligible, consistent assertions, is true in the most
complete and extensive sense.
7. Terms may have different Uses.—The Terms with
which we are here most concerned are Names of Classes
of natural objects ; and when we say that the principle
and the limit of such Names are their use in expressing
propositions concerning the classes, it is clear that much
will depend on the kind of propositions which we mainly
have to express: and that the same name may have
different limits, according to the purpose we have in view.
For example, is the whale properly included in the
general term fish ? When men are concerned in catching
marine animals, the main features of the process are the
same however the animals may differ ; hence whales are
classed with fishes, and we speak of the whale-fishery.
But if we look at the analogies of organization, we find
Digitized by Googk
that, according to these, the whale is clearly not a fish, but
a beast, (confining this term, for the sake ofdistinctness, to
suckling beasts or mammals). In Natural History, there­
fore, the whale is not included among fish. The indefi­
nite and miscellaneous propositions which language is
employed to enunciate in the course of common practical
life, are replaced by a more coherent and systematic col­
lection of properties, when we come to aim at scientific
knowledge. But we shall hereafter consider the principle
of the classifications of Natural History; our present
subject is the application of the Idea of Likeness in
common practice and common language.
8. Gradation qf Kinds.—Common names, then, in­
clude many individuals associated in virtue of resem­
blances, and of permanently connected properties; and
such names are applicable as far as they serve to express
such properties. These collections of individuals are
termed Kinds, Sorts, Classes.
But this association ofparticulars is capable of degrees.
As individuals by their resemblances form Kinds, so kinds
of things, though different, may resemble each other so as
to be again associated in a higher Class; and there may
be several successive steps of such classification. Man,
horse, tree, stone, are each a name of a Kind; but animal
includes the two first and excludes the others; living
thing is a term which includes animal and tree but not
stone; body includes all the four. And such a subordi­
nation of kinds may be traced very widely in the arrange­
ments of language.
The condition of the use of the wider is the same as
that of the narrower Names of Classes;—they are good
as far as they serve to express true propositions. In
common language, though such an order of generality
may in a variety of instances be easily discerned, it is
not systematically and extensively referred to ; but this
474 PHILOSOPHY OF THE CLASSIFICATORY SCIENCES.
Digitized by Googk
THE IDEA OF LIKENESS. 475
subordination and graduated comprehensiveness is the
essence of the methods and nomenclatures of Natural
History, as we shall soon have to show.
But such subordination is not without its use, even in
common cases, and when it is expressed in the terms of
common language. Thus organized body is a term which
includes plants and animals; animal includes beasts,
birds, fishes; beast includes horses and dogs; , again,
are greyhounds, spaniels, terriers.
9. Characters of Kinds.—Now when we have such a
Series of Names and Classes, we find that we take for
granted irresistibly that each class has some character
which distinguishes it from other classes included in the
superior division. We ask what kind of beast a dog is;
what kind of animal a beast is; and we assume that such
questions admit of answer;—that each kind has some
mark or marks by which it may be described. And such
descriptions may be given: an animal is an organized
body having sensation and volition; man is a reasonable
animal. Whether or no we assent to the exactness of
these definitions, we allow the propriety of their form.
If we maintain these to be wrong, we must believe some
others to be right, however difficult it may be to hit
upon them. We entertain a conviction that there must
be, among things so classed and named, a possibility of
defining each.
Now what is the foundation of this postulate ? What
is the ground of this assumption, that there must exist a
definition which we have never seen, and which perhaps
no one has seen in a satisfactory form ? The knowledge
of this definition is by no means necessary to our using
the word with propriety; for any one can make true asser­
tions about dogs, but who can define a dog ? And yet if
the definition be not necessary to enable us to use the
word, why is it necessary at all? I allow that we pos­
Digitized by Google
sess an indestructible conviction that there must be such
a character of each kind as will supply a definition; but
I ask, on what this conviction rests.
I reply, that our persuasion that there must needs be
characteristic marks by which things can be defined in
words, is founded on the assumption of necessary
possibility of reasoning.
The reference of any object or conception to its class
without definition, may give us a persuasion that it
shares the properties of its class, but such classing does
not enable us to reason upon those properties. When
we consider man as an animal, we ascribe to him in
thought the appetites, desires, affections, which we
habitually include in our notion of animal: but except
we have expressed these in some definition or acknow­
ledged description of the term animal, we can make no
use of the persuasion in ratiocination. But if we have
described animals as “ beings impelled to action by appe­
tites and passions,” we can not only think, but say, “ man
is an animal, and therefore he is impelled to act by
appetites and passions.” And if we add a further defi­
nition, that “man is a reasonable animal,” and if it ap­
pear that “reason implies conformity to a rule of action,”
we can then further infer that man’s nature is to con­
form the results of animal appetite and passion to a rule
of action.
The possibility of pursuing any such train of reason­
ing as this, depends on the definitions, of animal and of
man, which we have introduced; and the possibility of
reasoning concerning the objects around us being inevit­
ably assumed by us from the constitution of our nature,
we assume consequently the possibility of such defini­
tions as may thus form part of our deduction, and the
existence of such defining characters.
10. Difficulty of Definitions.—But though men are,
476 PHILOSOPHY OF THE CLASSIFICATORY SCIENCES.
Digitized by Googk
THE IDEA OF LIKENESS. 4 7 7
on such grounds, led to make constant and importunate
demands for definitions of the terms which they employ
in their speculations, they are, in fact, far from being
able to carry into complete effect the postulate on which
they proceed, that they must be able to find definitions
which by logical consequence shall lead to the truths
they seek. The postulate overlooks the process by which
our classes of things are formed and our names applied.
This process consisting, as we have already said, in
observing permanent connexions of properties, and in
fixing them by the attribution of names, is of the nature
ofthe process of induction, of which we shall afterwards
have to speak. And the postulate is so far true, that
this process of induction being once performed, its result
may usually be expressed by means of a few definitions,
and may thus lead by a deduction to a train of real
truths.
But in the subjects where we principally find such a
subordination of classes as we have spoken of) this pro-*
cess of deduction is rarely of much prominence: for
example, in the branches of natural history. Yet it is
in these subjects that the existence and importance of
these characteristic marks, which we have spoken of,
principally comes into view. In treating of these marks,
however, we enter upon methods which are technical
and scientific, not popular and common. And before
we make this transition, we have a remark to make on
the manner in which writers, without reference to phy­
sics or natural history, have spoken of kinds, their sub­
ordination, and their marks.
11. “ The FiveWords."—These things,—the nature
and relations of classes,—were, in fact, the subjects of
minute and technical treatment by the logicians of the
school of Aristotle. Porphyry wrote an Introduction to
the Categories of that philosopher, which is entitled On
Digitized by Googk
theFive Words. The “Five Words” are Genus, ,
Difference, Property, Accident. Genus and Species are
superior and inferior classes, and are stated* to be ca­
pable of repeated subordination. The “ most general .
Genus” is the widest class, the “ most special Species”
the narrowest. Between these are intermediate classes,
which are Genera with regard to those below, and Spe­
cies with regard to those above them. Thus Being is
the most general Genus; under this is Body; under
Body is Living Body; under this again Animal; under
Animal is Rational Animal, or Man; under Man are
Socrates and Plato, and other individual men.
The Difference is that which is added to the genus
to make the species; thus Rational is the Difference by
which the genus Animal is made the species Man; the
Difference in this Technical sense is the “ Specific,” or
species-making Difference+. It forms the Definition for
the purposes of logic, and corresponds to the “ Charac­
ter” (specific or generic) of the Natural Historians.
Indeed several of them, as, for instance, Linnaeus, in his
Philosophia Botanica, always call these Characters the
Difference, by a traditional application of the Peripatetic
terms of art. .
Of the other two words, the Property is that which
though not employed in defining the class, belongs to
every part of itJ : it is, “ What happens to all the class,
to it alone, and at all times; as to be capable of laugh­
ing is a property of a man.”
The Accident is that which may be present and ab­
sent without the destruction of the subject, as to sleep
is an Accident (a thing which happens) to man.
I need not dwell further on this system of techni­
calities. The most remarkable points in it are those
which I have already noticed; the doctrine of the sue­
* Porphyr. Isagog. c. 23. t »'SoiroioV J Isagog. c. 4.
4 7 8 PHILOSOPHY OF THE CLASSIFICATORY SCIENCES.
Digitized by Google ♦
THE IDEA OF LIKENESS. 479
cessive subordination of genera, and the fixing attention
upon the specific difference. These doctrines, though
invented in order to make reasoning more systematic,
and at a period anterior to the existence of any classi-
ficatory science, have, by a curious contrast with the
intentions of their founders, been of scarcely any use in
sciences of reasoning, but have been amply applied and
developed in the Natural History which arose in later
times. We must now treat of the principles on which
this science proceeds, and explain what peculiar and
technical processes it employs in addition to those of
common thought and common language.
Chapter II.
TH E M ETHODS OF N A TU RA L H ISTO RY , AS
REGULATED BY T H E IDEA OF LIKENESS.
S e c t . I.—Natural History in general.
1. Idea of Likeness in Natural History.—T h e
various branches of Natural History, in so far as they
are classificatory sciences merely, and do not depend
upon physiological views, rest upon the same Idea of
Likeness which is the ground of the application of the
names, more or less general, of common language. But
the nature of science requires that for her purposes this
idea should be applied in a more exact and rigorous
manner than in its common and popular employment;
just as occurs with regard to the other Ideas on which
science is founded;—for instance, as the idea of space
gives rise, in popular use, to the relations implied in the
prepositions and adjectives which refer to position and
Digitized by Googk
form, and in its scientific developement gives rise to the
more precise relations of geometry.
The way in which the Idea of Likeness has been
applied, so as to lead to the construction of a science, is
best seen in Botany: for, in the Classification of Ani­
mals, we are inevitably guided by a consideration of the
function of parts; that is, by an idea ofpurpose, and not
of likeness merely: and in Mineralogy, the attempts at
classification on the principles of Natural History have
been hitherto very imperfectly successful. But in Botany
we have an example of a branch of knowledge in which
systematic classification has been effected with great
beauty and advantage; and in which the peculiarities
and principles on which such classification must depend
have been carefully studied. Many of the principal
botanists, as Linnseus, Adanson, Decandolle, have not
only practically applied, but have theoretically enun­
ciated, what they held to be the sound maxims of classi-
ficatory science: and have thus enabled us to place
before the reader with confidence the philosophy of this
kind of science.
2.Condition qf its Use.—We may begin by remark­
ing that the Idea of Likeness, in its systematic employ­
ment, is governed by the same principle which we have
already spoken of as regulating the distribution of things
into kinds, and the assignment of names in unsystematic
thought and speech; namely, the condition that general
propositions shall be possible. But as in this case the
propositions are to be of a scientific form and exactness,
the likeness must be treated with a corresponding pre­
cision; and its consequences traced by steady and dis­
tinct processes. Naturalists must, for their purposes,
employ the resemblances of objects in a technical man­
ner. This technical process may be considered as con­
sisting of three steps;—The fixation of the resemblances;
480 PHILOSOPHY OF THE CLASSIFICATORY SCIENCES.
Digitized by Google
METHODS OF NATURAL HISTORY. 4 8 1
The use of them in making a classification; The means
ofapplying the classification. These three steps may be
spoken of as the T
e
r
m
i
n
o
l
o
g
y,the Plan of the System,
and the Scheme of the Characters.
S ect. II.— Terminologyit.
3. Terminology signifies the collection of terms, or
technical words, which belong to the science. But in
fixing the meaning of the terms, at least of the descrip­
tive terms, we necessarily fix, at the same time, the per­
ceptions and notions which the terms are to convey;
and thus the Terminology of a classificatory science
exhibits the elements of its substance as well as of its
language. A large but indispensable part of the study
of botany (and of mineralogy and zoology also,) con­
sists in the acquisition of the peculiar vocabulary of the
science. .
The meaning of technical terms can be fixed in the
first instance only by convention, and can be made intel­
ligible only by presenting to the senses that which the
terms are to signify. The knowledge of a colour by its
name can only be taught through the eye. No descrip­
tion can convey to a hearer what we mean by apple-
green or French grey. It might, perhaps, be supposed
that, in the first example, the term apple, referring to
so familiar an object, sufficiently suggests the colour
intended. But it may easily be seen that this is not
true; for apples are of many different hues of green,
and it is only by a conventional selection that we can•
• Decandolle and others use the term Glossology instead of Termi­
nology, to avoid the blemish of a word compounded of two parts taken
from different languages. The convenience of treating the termination
ology (and a few other parts of compounds) as not restricted to Greek
combinations, is so great, that I shall venture, in these cases, to dis­
regard this philological scruple.
VOL. I. W. P. 11
Digitized by Google
appropriate the term to one special shade. When this
appropriation is once made, the term refers to the sen­
sation, and not to the parts of the term ; for these enter
into the compound merely as a help to the memory,
whether the suggestion be a natural connexion as in
“apple-green,” or a casual one as in “French grey.” In
order to derive due advantage from technical terms of
this kind, they must be associated immediately with the
perception to which they belong; and not connected
with it through the vague usages of common language.
The memory must retain the sensation; and the techni­
cal word must be understood as directly as the most
familiar word, and more distinctly. When we find such
terms as tin-white or pinchbeck-brown, the metallic
colour so denoted ought to start up in our memory
■without delay or search.
This, which it is most important to recollect with
respect to the simpler properties of bodies, as colour and
form, is no less true with respect to more compound
notions. In all cases the term Is fixed to a peculiar
meaning by convention; and the student, in order to use
the word, must be completely familiar with the conven­
tion, so that he has no need to frame conjectures from
the word itself. Such conjectures would always be inse­
cure, and often erroneous. Thus the term
ous, applied to a flower, is employed to indicate, not only
a resemblance to a butterfly, but a resemblance arising
from five petals of a certain peculiar shape and arrange­
ment ; and even if the resemblance were much stronger
than it is in such cases, yet if it were produced in a
different way, as, for example, by one petal, or two only,
instead of a “ standard,” two “ wings,” and a “ keel” con­
sisting of two parts more or less united into one, we
should no longer be justified in speaking of it as a “pa­
pilionaceous” flower.
4 8 2 PHILOSOPHY OF t h e c l a ssif ic a t o r y scien ces.
Digitized by Google
METHODS OF NATURAL HISTORY. 4 8 3
The formation of an exact and extensive descriptive
laoguage for botany has been executed with a degree of
skill and felicity, which, before it was attained, could
hardly have been dreamt of as attainable. Every part
of a plant has been named; and the form of every part,
even the most minute, has had a large assemblage of
descriptive terms appropriated to it, by means of which
the botanist can convey and receive knowledge of form
and structure, as exactly as if each minute part were
presented to him vastly magnified. This acquisition was
part of the Linnaean reform, of which we have spoken in
the Histoi'y. “ Tournefort,” says Decandolle*, “ appears
to have been the first who really perceived the utility of
fixing the sense of terms in such a way as always to
employ the same word in the same sense, and always to
express the same idea by the same word; but it was
Linnaeus who really created and fixed this botanical lan­
guage, and this is his fairest claim to glory, for by this
fixation of language he has shed clearness and precision
over all parts of the science.”
It is not necessary here to give any detailed account
of the terms of botany. The fundamental ones have
been gradually introduced, as the parts of plants were
more carefully and minutely examined. Thus the flower
was successively distinguished into the calyx, the corolla,
the stamens, and the pistils: the sections of the corolla
were termed petals by Columna; those of the calyx were
called sepals by Neckerf. Sometimes terms of greater
generality were devised ; as perianth to include the calyx
and corolla, whether one or both of these were present J;
pericarp for the part inclosing the grain, of whatever
kind it be, fruit, nut, pod, &c. And it may easily be
imagined that descriptive terms may, by definition and
♦ Theor. E le m p. 327. t Dec. 329.
t For this Erhart and Decandollo use Perigone.
11 2
Digitized by Google
combination, become very numerous and distinct. Thus
leaves may be called pin n atifid*
,
tisect, p i n n a t i l o b a t e , p a l m a t i f i d , &c., and
each of these words designates different combinations of
the modes and extent of the divisions of the leaf with
the divisions of its outline. In some cases arbitrary
numerical relations are introduced into the definition:
thus a leaf is called trilobate f when it is divided into two
parts by a notch; but if the notch go to the middle of
its length, it is bifid; if it go near the base of the leaf,
it is b ipartite; if to the base, it is bisect. Thus, too, a
pod of a cruciferous plant is a silica J if it be four times
as long as it is broad, but if it be shorter than this it is
a silicula. Such terms being established, the form of
the very complex leaf or frond of a fern is exactly con­
veyed by the following phrase: “ fronds rigid pinnate,
pinnae recurved subunilateral pinnatifid, the segments
linear undivided or bifid spinuloso-serrate §."
Other characters, as well as form, are conveyed with
the like precision: Colour by means of a classified scale
of colours, as we have seen in speaking of the measures
of secondary qualities; to which, however, we must add,
that the naturalist employs arbitrary names, (such as we
have already quoted,) and not mere numerical exponents,
to indicate a certain number of selected colours. This
was done with most precision by Werner, and his scale
of colours is still the most usual standard of naturalists.
Werner also introduced a more exact terminology with
regard to other characters which are important in mine­
ralogy, as lustre, hardness. But Mohs improved upon
this step by giving a numerical scale of hardness, in
which talc is 1, gypsum 2, calc spar 3, and so on, as
• Dec. 310. t lb. 493. J lb. 422.
§ Ilooker, Brit. Flo., p. 450. Wilsoni, Scottish
filmy-feni, abundant in the H ighlands of Scotland and about Killamcj-.
484 PHILOSOPHY OF t h e c l a ssif ic a t o r y sc ie n c e s.
Digitized by Googk
METHODS OF NATURAL HISTORY. 485
we have already explained in the History of Mineralogy.
Some properties, as specific gravity, by their definition
give at once a numerical measure; and others, as crys­
talline form, require a very considerable array of mathe­
matical calculation and reasoning, to point out their
relations and gradations. In all cases the features of
likeness in the objects must be rightly apprehended, in
order to their being expressed by a distinct terminology.
Thus no terms could describe crystals for any purpose
of natural history, till it was discovered that in a class
of minerals the proportion of the faces might vary,
while the angle remained the same. Nor could crystals
be described so as to distinguish species, till it was found
that the derived and primitive forms are connected by
very simple relations of space and number. The dis­
covery of the mode in which characters must be appre­
hended so that they may be considered as fixed for a
class, is an important step in the progress of each branch
of Natural History; and hence we have had, in the
History of Mineralogy and Botany, to distinguish as
important and eminent persons those who made such dis­
coveries, Romé de Lisle and Haiiy, Cesalpinus and Gesner.
By the continued progress of that knowledge of
minerals, plants, and other natural objects, in which such
persons made the most distinct and marked steps, but
which has been constantly advancing in a more gradual
and imperceptible manner, the most important and
essential features of similarity and dissimilarity in such
objects have been selected, arranged, and fitted with
names; and we have thus in such departments, systems
of Terminology which fix our attention upon the re­
semblances which it is proper to consider, and enable
us to convey them in words. We have now to speak of
the mode in which such resemblances have been em­
ployed in the construction of a Systematic Classification.
Digitized by Googk
S e c t . III.— ThePlan qf the System.
4. The collection of sound views and maxims by
which the resemblances of natural objects are applied so
as to form a scientific classification, is a department of
the philosophy of natural history which has been termed
by some writers (as Decandolle,) , as contain­
ing the Lares of the Taxis, ( ). By some
Germans this has been denominated ; if we
could now form a new substantive after the analogy of
the words Logick, Rhetorick, and the like, we might call
it Systematick. But though our English writers com­
monly use the expression Systematical Botany for the
Botany of Classification, they appear to prefer the term
Dialaxis for the method of constructing the classifica­
tion. The rules of such a branch of science are curious
and instructive.
In framing a Classification of objects we must attend
to their resemblances and differences. But here the
question occurs, to rchat resemblances and differences?
for a different selection of the points of resemblance
would give different results: a plant frequently agrees
in leaves with one group of plants, in flowers with an­
other. Which set of characters are we to take as our
guide ?
The view already given of the regulative principle of
all classification, namely, that it must enable us to assert
true and general propositions, will obviously occur as
applicable here. The object of a scientific Classification
is to enable us to enunciate scientific truths: we must
therefore classify according to those resemblances of
objects (plants or any others,) which bring to light such
truths.
But this reply to the inquiry, “ On what characters
of resemblance we are to found our system,” is still too
48G PHILOSOPHY OF THE CLASSIFICATORY SCIENCES.
Digitized by Googk
METHODS OF NATURAL HISTORY. 487
general and vague to be satisfactory. It carries us,
however, as far as this;—that since the truths we are to
attend to are scientific truths, governed by precise and
homogeneous relations, we must not found our scientific
Classification on casual, indefinite, and unconnected con­
siderations. We must not, for instance, be satisfied with
dividing plants, as Dioscorides does, into aromatic, escu­
lent, medicinal, and vinous; or even with the long pre­
valent distribution into trees, shrubs, and herbs; since
in these subdivisions there is no consistent principle.
5. Latent Reference to N atural Affinity.—But there
may be several kinds of truths, all exact and coherent,
which may be discovered concerning plants or any other
natural objects; and if this should be the case, our rule
leaves us still at a loss in what manner our classification
is to be constructed. And, historically speaking, a much
more serious inconvenience has been this;—that the
task of classification of plants was necessarily performed
when the general laws of their form and nature were
very little known; or rather, when the existence of such
laws was only just beginning to be discerned. Even
up to the present day, the general propositions which
botanists are able to assert concerning the structure
and properties of plants, are extremely imperfect and
obscure.
We are thus led to this conclusion:—that the Idea of
Likeness could not be applied so as to give rise to a
scientific Classification of plants, till considerable pro­
gress was made in studying the general relations of
vegetable form and life; and that the selection of the
resemblances which should be taken into account, must
depend upon the nature of the relations which were then
brought into view.
But this amounts to saying that, in the consideration
of the Classification of vegetables, other Ideas must be
Digitized by Google
called into action as well as the Idea of Likeness. The
additional general views to which the more intimate
study of plants leads, must depend, like all general
truths, upon some regulating Idea which gives unity to
scattered facts. No progress could be made in botanical
knowledge without the operation of such principles: and
such additional Ideas must be employed, besides those
of mere likeness and unlikeness, in order to point out
that Classification which has a real scientific value.
Accordingly, in the classificatory sciences, Ideas other
than Likeness do make their appearance. Such Ideas
in botany have influenced the progress of the science,
even before they have been clearly brought into view.
We have especially the Idea of Affinity, which is the
basis of all Natural Systems of Classification, and which
we shall consider in a succeeding chapter. The assump­
tion that there isa Natural System, an assumpti
by all philosophical botanists, implies a belief in the
existence of Natural Affinity, and is carried into effect
by means of principles which are involved in that Idea.
But as the formation of all systems of classification must
involve, in a great degree, the Idea of Resemblance and
Difference, I shall first consider the effect of that Idea,
before I treat specially of Natural Affinity.
6. Natural Classes.—Many attempts were made to
classify vegetables before the rules which govern a natu­
ral system were clearly apprehended. Botanists agree
in esteeming some characters as of more value than
others, before they had agreed upon any general rules
or principles for estimating the relative importance of
the characters. They were convinced of the necessity
of adding other considerations to that of Resemblance,
without seeing clearly what these others ought to be.
They aimed at a Natural Classification, without knowing
distinctly in what manner it was to be Natural.
4 8 8 PHILOSOPHY OF THE CLASSIFICATORY SCIENCES.
Digitized by Googk
METHODS OF NATURAL HISTORY. 4 8 9
The attempts to form Natural Classes, therefore, in
the first part of their history, belong to the Idea of Like­
ness, though obscurely modified, even from an early
period, by the Ideas of Affinity, and even of Function
and of Developement. Hence Natural Classes may, to
a certain extent, be treated of in this place.
Natural Classes are opposed to Artificial Classes
which are understood to be regulated by an assumed
character. Yet no classes can be so absolutely Artificial
in this sense, as to be framed upon characters arbitra­
rily assumed; for instance, no one would speak of a
class of shrubs defined by the circumstance of each hav­
ing a hundred leaves: for of such a class no assertion
could be made, and therefore the class could never come
under our notice. In what sense then are Artificial
Classes to be understood, as opposed to Natural?
7. Artificial Classes.—To this question, the follow­
ing is the answer. When Natural Classes of a certain
small extent have been formed, a system may be devised
which shall be regulated by a few selected characters,
and which shall not dissever these small Natural Classes,
but conform to them as far as they go. If these selected
characters be then made absolute and imperative, and if
we abandon all attempt to obtain Natural Classes of any
higher order and wider extent, we form an Artificial
System.
Thus in the Linnaean System of Botanical Classifica­
tion, it is assumed that certain natural groups, namely,
Species and Genera, are established; it is conceived,
moreover, that the division of Classes according to the
number of stamens and of pistils does not violate the
natural connexions of Species and Genera. This arrange­
ment, according to the number of stamens and pistils,
(further modified in certain cases by other considera­
tions,) is then made the ground of all the higher
Digitized by Googk
divisions of plants, and thus we have an Artificial
System.
It has been objected to this view, that the Linnaan
Artificial System does not in all cases respect the boun­
daries of genera, but would, if rigorously applied, dis­
tribute the species of the same genus into different
artificial classes; it would divide, for instance, the genera
Valeriana, G
e
r
a
n
i
u
m
*,&c. To this we must reply,
that so far as the Linnsean System does this, it is an
imperfect Artificial System. Its great merit is in its
making such a disjunction in comparatively so few cases;
and in the artificial characters being, for the most part,
obvious and easily applied.
8. Are Genera Natural?
—It has b
that Genera are not Natural groups. Linnseus asserts
in the most positive manner that they aref. On which
Adanson observes;}:, “ I know not how any Botanist can
maintain such a thesis: that which is certain is, that up
to the present time no one has been able to prove it, nor
to give an exact definition of a natural genus, but only
of an artificial.” He then brings several arguments to
confirm this view.
But we are to observe, in answer to this, that
Adanson improperly confounds the recognition of the
existence of a natural group with the invention of a
technical mark or definition of it. Genera are groups
of species associated in virtue of natural affinity, of gene­
ral resemblance, of real propinquity: of such groups,
certain selected characters, one or few, may usually be
discovered, by which the species may be referred to their
groups. These Artificial characters do not constitute,
but indicate the genus: they are the Diagnosis, not the
basis of the D iataxis: and they are always subject to be
* Dccand. Theor. Elem., p. 45. + Phil. Bo!., Art. 165.
X Famille de P h Pref. cv.
490 PHILOSOPHY OF THE CLASSIFICATORY SCIENCES.
Digitized by Googk
METHODS OF NATURAL HISTORY. 491
rejected, and to have others substituted for them, when
they violate the natural connexion of species which a
minute and enlarged study discovers.
It is, therefore, no proof that Genera are not Natural,
to say that their artificial characters are different in dif­
ferent systems. Such characters are only different at­
tempts to confine the variety of nature within the limits
of definition. Nor is it sufficient to say that these groups
themselves are different in different writers; that some
botanists make genera what others make only species;
as Pedicularis, Rhinanthus,Euphrasia, Antirrhinum*
This discrepancy shows only that the natural arrange­
ment is not yet completely known, even in the smaller
groups; a conclusion to which we need not refuse our
assent. But in opposition to these negatives, the man­
ner in which Genera have been established proves that
they are regulated by the principle of being natural, and
by that alone. For they are not formed according to any
d priori rule. The Botanist does not take any selected
or arbitrary part or parts of the plants, and marshal his
genera according to the differences of this part. On the
contrary, the divisions of genera are sometimes made by
means of the flower; sometimes by means of the fruit:
the anthers, the stamens, the seeds, the pericarp, and
the most varied features of these parts, are used in the
most miscellaneous and unsystematic manner. Linnaeus
has indeed laid down a maxim that the characteristic
differences-of genera must reside in the fructificationf :
but Adanson has justly remarked{, that an arbitrary
restriction like this makes the groups artificial: and
that in some families other characters are more essen­
tial than those of the fructification; as the leaves in the
families of Aparinece and Legand the dispo
• Adanson, p. cvi. t Phil. B o t Art. 162.
+ Adanson, P r e f, p. cxx.
Digitized by Google
tion of the flowers in Labiatæ. And Naturalists are so
far from thinking it sufficient to distribute species into
genera by arbitrary marks, that we find them in many
cases lamenting the absence of good natural marks : as
in the families of UmbeUi/erœ, where Linnaeus declared
that any one who could find good characters of genera
would deserve great admiration, and where it is only of
late that good characters have been discovered and the
arrangement settled* by means principally of the ribs of
the fruitf.
It is thus clear that Genera are not established on
any assumed or preconceived basis. What, then, is the
principle which regulates botanists when they try to fix
genera ? What is the arrangement which they thus wish
for, without being able to hit upon it ? What is the
tendency which thus drives them from the corolla to the
anthers, from the flower to the fruit, from the fructifica­
tion to the leaves ? It is plain that they seek something,
not of their own devising and creating ;—not anything
merely conventional and systematic; but something
which they conceive to exist in the relations of the
plants themselves;—something which is without the
mind, not within;—in nature, not in art;—in short, a
Natural Order.
Thus the regulative principle of a Genus, or of any
other natural group is, that it is, or is supposed to be,
natural. And by reference to this principle as our guide,
we shall be able to understand the meaning of that in­
definiteness and indecision which we frequently find in
the descriptions of such groups, and which must appear
so strange and inconsistent to any one who does not
suppose these descriptions to assume any deeper ground
* Lindley, Nat. S y s t p. 5.
t In like manner we find Cuvier saying of Rondelet that he has
“ un sentiment très vrai des genres.” Hist. I c h l h p. 39.
4 9 2 PHILOSOPHY OF t h e c l a ssif ic a t o r y s c ie n c e s .
Digitized by Googk
METHODS OF NATURAL HISTORY. 4 9 3
of connexion than an arbitrary choice of the botanist.
Thus in the family of the Rose-tree, we are told that
the ovules are very rarely erect*, the stigmata are
usually simple. Of what use, it might be asked, can
such loose accounts be ? To which the answer is, that
they are not inserted in order to distinguish the species,
but in order to describe the family, and the total rela­
tions of the ovules and of the stigmata of the family are
better known by this general statement. A similar
observation may be made with regard to the Anomalies
of each group, which occur so commonly, that Mr. Lind-
ley, in his Introduction to the Natural System of Botany,
makes the “Anomalies” an article in each Family. Thus,
part of the character of the Rosacese is that they have
alternate stipulate leaves, and that the albumen is obli­
terated: but yet in Lorcea, one of the genera of this
family, the stipulae are absent; and the albumen is pre­
sent in another, Neillia. This implies, as we have already
seen, that the artificial character (or diagnosis as Mr.
Lindley calls it) is imperfect. It is, though very nearly,
yet not exactly, commensurate with the natural group:
and hence, in certain cases, this character is made to
yield to the general weight of natural affinities.
9. Difference ofNatural History and Mathematics.—
These views,— of classes determined by characters which
cannot be expressed in words,—of propositions which
state, not what happens in all cases, but only usually,—
of particulars which are included in a class though they
transgress the definition of it, may very probably surprize
the reader. They are so contrary to many of the received
opinions respecting the use of definitions and the nature
of scientific propositions, that they will probably appear
to many persons highly illogical and unphilosophical.
But a disposition to such a judgment arises in a great
• Lindley, Nat. S y s t p. 81.
Digitized by Googk
measure from this;—that the mathematical and mathe-
matico-physical sciences have, in a great degree, deter­
mined men’s views of the general nature and form of
scientific truth; while Natural History has not yet had
time or opportunity to exert its due influence upon the
current habits of philosophizing. The apparent indefi­
niteness and inconsistency of the classifications and
definitions of Natural History belongs, in a far higher
degree, to all other except mathematical speculations:
and the modes in which approximations to exact distinc­
tions and general truths have been made in Natural His­
tory, may be worthy our attention, even for the light
they throw upon the best modes of pursuing truth of all
kinds.
10. Natural Groups given by Type not by Definition.
*
—The further developement of this suggestion must be
considered hereafter. But we may here observe, that
though in a Natural Group of objects a definition can no
longer be of any use as a regulative principle, classes are
not, therefore, left quite loose, without any certain stand­
ard or guide. The class is steadily fixed, though not
precisely limited; it is given, though not circumscribed;
it is determined, not by a boundary line without, but by
a central point within; not by what it strictly excludes,
but by what it eminently includes; by an example, not
by a precept; in short, instead of Definition we have a
Type for our director.
A Type is an example of any class, fqr instance, a
species of a genus, which is considered as eminently pos­
sessing the characters of the class. All the species
which have a greater affinity with this Type-species than
with any others, form the genus, and are ranged about
it, deviating from it in various directions and different
degrees. Thus a genus may consist of several species
which approach very near the type, and of which the
4 9 4 PHILOSOPHY OF THE CLASSIFICATORY SCIENCES.
Digitized by Google
METHODS OF NATURAL HISTORY. 4 9 5
claim to a place with it is obvious; while there may be
other species which straggle further from this central
knot, and which yet are clearly more connected with it
than with any other. And even if there should be some
species of which the place is dubious, and which appear
to be equally bound to two generic types, it is easily seen
that this would not destroy the reality of the generic
groups, any more than the scattered trees of the inter­
vening plain prevent our speaking intelligibly of the dis­
tinct forests of two separate hills.
The Type-species of every genus, the Type-genus of
every family, is, then, one which possesses all the cha­
racters and properties of the genus in a marked and pro­
minent manner. The Type of the Rose family has alter­
nate stipulate leaves, wants the albumen, has the ovules
not erect, has the stigmata simple, and besides these
features, which distinguish it from the exceptions or
varieties of its class, it has the features which make it
prominent in its class. It is one of those which possess
clearly several leading attributes; and thus, though we
cannot say of any one genus that it be the Type of
the family, or of any one species that it must be the Type
of the genus, we are still not wholly to seek: the Type
must be connected by many affinities with most of the
others of its group; it must be near the center of the
crowd, and not one of the stragglers.
11. It has already been repeatedly stated, as the
great rule of all classification, that the classification must
serve to assert general propositions. It may be asked
what propositions we are able to enunciate by means of
such classifications as we are now treating of. And the
answer is, that the collected knowledge of the characters,
habits, properties, organization, and functions of these
groups and families, as it is found in the best botanical
jvorks, and as it exists in the minds of the best botanists,
Digitized by Googk
exhibits to us the propositions which constitute the
science, and to the expression of which the classification
is to serve. All that is not strictly definition, that is, all
that is not artificial character, in the descriptions of such
classes, is a statement of truths, more or less general,
more or less precise, but making up, together, the posi­
tive knowledge which constitutes the science. As we
have said, the consideration of the properties of plants in
order to form a system of classification, has been termed
Taxonomy, or the Systematick of Botany; all the parts
of the descriptions, which, taking the system for granted,
convey additional information, are termed the Physio­
graphy of the science; and the same terms may be
applied in the other branches of Natural History.
12. Artificial and Natural Systems.—If I have suc­
ceeded in making it apparent that an artificial system of
characters necessarily implies natural classes which are
not severed by the artificial marks, we shall now be
able to compare the nature and objects of the Artificial
and Natural Systems; points on which much has been
written in recent times.
The Artificial System is one which is, or professes to
be, entirely founded upon marks selected according to the
condition which has been stated, of not violating certain
narrow natural groups; namely, in the Linnaean system,
the natural genera of plants. The marks which form the
basis of the system, being thus selected, are applied
rigorously and universally without any further regard
to any other characters or indications of affinity. Thus
in the Linnaean system, which depends mainly on the
number of male organs or stamens, and on the number
of female organs or styles, the largest divisions, or the
Classes, are arranged according to the number of the
stamens, and are monandria, diandria, triandina, te~
trandria, pentandria, hexandria,and so
40G PHILOSOPHY OP THE CLASSIFICATORY SCIENCES.
Digitized by Googk
METHODS OF NATURAL HISTORY. 4 9 7
being formed of the Greek numerical words, and of the
word which implies male. And the Orders Of each of
these Classes are distinguished by the number of styles,
and are called monogynia, digynia, trigynia, and so on,
the termination of these words meaningfemale. And so
far as this numerical division and subdivision go on, the
system is a rigorous system, and strictly artificial.
But the condition that the artificial system shall leave
certain natural affinities untouched, makes it impossible
to go through the vegetable kingdom by a method of
mere numeration of stamens and styles. The distinction
of flowers with twenty and with thirty stamens is not a
fixed distinction: flowers of one and the same kind, as
roses, have, some fewer than the former, some more than
the latter number. The Artificial System, therefore, must
be modified. And there are various relations of con­
nexion and proportion among the stamina which are
more permanent and important than their mere num­
ber. Thus flowers with two longer and two shorter
stamens are not placed in the class tetrandria, but are
made a separate class didynamia; those with four longer
and two shorter are in like manner tetradynamia, not
h e x a n d r i a ;those in which the filaments are bound into
two bundles are diadelphia. All these and other classes
are deviations from the plan of the earlier Classes, and
are so far defects of the artificial system; but they are
deviations requisite in order that the system may leave
a basis of natural groups, without which it would not be
a System of Vegetables. And as the division is still
founded on some properties of the stamens, it combines
not ill with that part of the system which depends on
the number of them. The Classes framed in virtue of
these various considerations make up an Artificial System
which is tolerably coherent. •
“ But since the Artificial System thus regards natural
VOL. i. w . p. K K
Digitized by Google
groups, in what does it differ from a Natural System?”
It differs in this:—That though it allows certain subor­
dinate natural groups, it merely allows , and does
not endeavour to ascend to any wider natural groups.
It takes all the higher divisions of its scheme from its
artificial characters, its stamens and pistils, without look­
ing to any natural affinities. It accepts natural ,
but it does not seek natural Families, or Orders, or
Classes. It assumes natural groups, but does not inves­
tigate any; it forms wider and higher groups, but pro­
fesses to frame them arbitrarily.
But then, on the other hand, the question occurs,
“ This being the case, what can be the use of the Artificial
System?” If its characters, in the higher stages of clas­
sification, be arbitrary, how can it lead us to the natural
relations of plants ? And the answer is, that it does so
in virtue of the original condition, that there shall be
certain natural relations which the artificial system shall
not transgress; and that its use arises from the facility
with which we can follow the artificial arrangement as
far as it goes. We can count the stamens and pistils,
and thus we know the Class and Order of our plant; and
we have then to discover its Genus and Species by means
less symmetrical but more natural. The Artificial Sys­
tem, though arbitrary in a certain degree, brings us to a
Class in which the whole of each Genus is contained, and
there we can find the proper Genus by a suitable method
of seeking. No Artificial System can conduct us into
the extreme of detail, but it can place us in a situation
where the detail is within our reach. We cannot find
the house of a foreign friend by its latitude and longi­
tude; but we may be enabled, by a knowledge of the
latitude and longitude, to find the city in which he
dwells, or at least the island; and we then can reach his
abode by following the road or exploring the locality.
4 9 8 PHILOSOPHY OF THE CLASSIFICATORY SCIENCES.
Digitized by Google
METHODS OF NATURAL HISTORY. 4 9 9
The Artificial System is such a method of travelling by
latitude and longitude ; the Natural System is that which
is guided by a knowledge of the country.
The Natural System, then, is that which endeavours
to arrange by the natural affinities of objects ; and more
especially, which attempts to ascend from the lower
natural groups to the higher ; as for example from genera
to natural families, orders, and classes. But as we have
already hinted, these expressions of natural affinities,
natural groups, and the like, when considered in refer­
ence to the idea of resemblance alone, without studying
analogy or function, are very vague and obscure. We
must notice some of the attempts which were made
under the operation of this imperfect view of the subject.
Sect. IV.—Modes qfframing Natural S
13. Decandolle* distinguishes the attempts at Na­
tural Classifications into three sorts : those of blind trial,
(tâtonnement), those of general comparison, and those of
subordination of characters. The two former do not
depend distinctly upon any principle, except resem­
blance ; the third refers us to other views, and must be
considered in a future chapter.
Method of Blind Trial.—The notion of the existence
of natural classes dependent on the general resemblance
of plants,—of an affinity showing itself in different parts
and various ways,—though necessarily somewhat vague
and obscure, was acted upon at an early period, as we
have seen in the formation of genera ; and was enunciated
in general terms soon after. Thus Magnoliusf says that
he discerns in plants an affinity, by means of which they
may be arranged in families. “ Yet it is impossible to
* Theor. Elem.yart. 41.
t Dec. Theor. Elem., art. 42. Petri Magnoli, Prodromus Hist.
Gen. Plant., 1689.
K K 2
Digitized by Google
obtain from the fructification alone the Characters of
these families; and I have therefore chosen those parts
of plants in which the principal characteristic marks are
found, as the root, the stem, the flower, the seed. In
some plants there is even a certain resemblance; an
affinity which does not consist in the parts considered
separately, but in their totality ; an affinity which may be
felt but not expressed ; as we see in the families of agri­
monies and cinquefoils, which every botanist will judge
to be related, though they differ by their roots, their
leaves, their flowers, and their seeds.”
This obscure feeling of a resemblance on the whole,
a naffinity of an indefinite kind, appears fifty years later
in Linnæus’s attempts. “ In the Natural Classification,”
he says*, “ no à priori rule can be admitted, no part of
the fructification can be taken exclusively into considera­
tion; but only the simple symmetry of all its parts.”
Hence though he proposed Natural Families, and even
stated the formation of such Families to be the first and
last object of all Methods, he never gave the Characters
of those groups, or connected them by any method. He
even declared it to be impossible to lay down such a
system of characters. This persuasion was the result of
his having refused to admit into his mind any Idea more
profound than that notion of Resemblance of which he
had made so much and such successful use ; he would not
attempt to unravel the Ideas of Symmetry and of Func­
tion on which the clear establishment of natural relations
must depend. He even despised the study of the inner
organization of plants; and reckonedf the Anatomici,
who studied the anatomy and physiology of plants and
the laws of vegetation, among the Botanophili, the mere
amateurs of his science.
The same notion of general resemblance and affinity,
* Dec., Theor. E lm . art. 42. t Phil. B o i 8.44.
500 PHILOSOPHY OF THE CLASSIFICATORY SCIENCES.
Digitized by Googk
METHODS OF NATURAL HISTORY. 501
accompanied with the same vagueness, is to be found in
the writer who least participated in the general admiration
of Linnaeus, Buffon. Though it was in a great measure
his love of higher views which made him dislike what
he considered the pedantry of the Swedish school, he
does not seem to have obtained a clearer sight of the
principle of the natural method than his rival, except
that he did not restrict his Characters to the fructifica­
tion. Things must be arranged by their resemblances
and differences, (he says in 1750*,) “ but the resem­
blances and differences must be taken not from one part
but from the whole; and we must attend to the form,
the size, the habit, the number and position of the parts,
even the substance of the part; and we must make use
of these elements in greater or smaller number, as we
have need.”
14. Method of General Comparison.—A countryman
of Buffon, who shared with him his depreciating esti­
mate of the Linnsean system, and his wish to found a
natural system upon a broader basis, was Adanson; and
he invented an ingenious method of apparently avoid­
ing the vagueness of the practice of following the general
feeling of resemblance. This method consisted in making
many Artificial Systems, in each of which plants were
arranged by'some one part; and then collecting those
plants which came near each other in the greatest number
of those Artificial Systems, as plants naturally the most
related. Adanson gives an accountf of the manner in
which this system arose in his mind. He had gone to
Senegal, animated by an intense zeal for natural history;
and there, amid the luxuriant vegetation of the torrid
zone, he found that the methods of Linnaeus and Tourne-
fort failed him altogether as means of arranging his
* Adanson, p. cLvi. Buffon, Hist. Nat., 1.1. p. 21.
t Pref. p. cLvii.
Digitized by Googk
new botanical treasures. He was driven to seek a new
system. “ For this purpose,” he says, “ I examined
plants in all their parts, without omitting any, from the
roots to the embryo, the folding of the leaves in the bud,
their mode of sheathing*, the situation and folding of
the embryo and of its radicle in the seed, relatively to
the fruit; in short, a number of particulars which few
botanists notice. I made in the first place a complete
description of each plant, putting each of its parts in
separate articles, in all its details; when new species
occurred I put down the points in which they differed,
omitting those in which they agreed. By means of the
aggregate of these comparative descriptions, I perceived
that plants arranged themselves into classes or families
which could not be artificial or arbitrary, not being
founded upon one or two parts, which might change at
certain limits, but on all the parts; so that the dispropor­
tion of one of these parts was corrected and balanced
by the introduction of another.” Thus the principle of
Resemblance was to suffice for the general arrangement,
not by means of a new principle, as Symmetry or Organi­
zation, which should regulate its application, but by a
numeration of the peculiarities in which the resemblance
consisted.
The labour which Adanson underwent in the execu­
tion of this thought was immense. By taking each
Organ, and considering its situation, figure, number, &c.,
he framed sixty-five Artificial Systems; and collected his
Natural Families by a numerical combination of these.
For example, his sixty-Jifth Artificial System f is that
which depends upon the situation of the Ovary with re­
gard to the Flower; according to this system he frames
ten Artificial Classes, including ninety-three Sections:
and of these Sections the resulting Natural Arrange­
* “ Lcur maniero dc sVngainer.” t Adanson, Prof., p. cccxii.
5 0 2 PHILOSOPHY OF THE CLASSIFICATORY SCIENCES.
METHODS OF NATURAL HISTORY. 503
ment retains t
h
i
r
t
y
-
f
i
v
e, above one-third: the same
estimate is applied in other cases.
But this attempt to make Number supply the defects
which the vague notion of Resemblance introduces, how­
ever ingenious, must end in failure. For, as Decan-
dolle observes*, it supposes that we know, not only all
the Organs of plants, but all the points of view in which
it is possible to consider them; and even if this assump­
tion were true, which it is, and long must be, very far
from being, the principle is altogether vicious; for it
supposes that all these points of view, and all the result­
ing artificial systems are of equal importance:—a sup­
position manifestly erroneous. We are thus led back to
the consideration of the Relative Importance of Organs
and their qualities, as a basis for the classification of
plants, which no Artificial Method can supersede; and
thus we find the necessity of attending to something
besides mere external and detached Resemblance. The
method of General Comparison cannot, any more than
the method of Blind Trial, lead us, with any certainty
or clearness, to the Natural Method. Adanson’s Fami­
lies are held by the best botanists to be, for the greater
part, Natural; but his hypotheses are unfounded; and
his success is probably more due to the dim feeling of
Affinity, by which he was unconsciously guided, than to
the help he derived from his numerical processes.
In a succeeding chapter I shall treat of that Na­
tural Affinity on which a Natural System must really be
founded. But before proceeding to this higher subject,
we must say a few words on some of the other parts of
the philosophy of Natural History,—the Gradation of
Groups, the Nomenclature, the Diagnosis, and the appli­
cation of the methods to other subjects.
* Dec., Theor Elevu, p. 87-
Digitized by Googk
S ect. V.—Gradation of Groups.
15. It has been already noticed (last chapter,) that
even that vague application of the idea of resemblance
which gives rise to the terms of common language, intro­
duces a subordination of classes, as animal, body,
substance. Such a subordination appears in a more pre­
cise form when we employ this idea in a scientific man­
ner as we do in Natural History. We have then a series
of divisions, each inclusive of the lower ones, which are
expressed by various metaphors in different writers.
Thus some have gone as far as eight terms of the series*,
and have taken, for the most part, military names for
them; as Hosts, Legions, Phalanxes, Centuries, Cohorts,
Sections, Genera, Species. But the most received series
is Classes, Orders, Genera, and Species; in which, how­
ever, we often have other terms interpolated, as Sub­
genera, or Sections of genera. The expressions Family
and Tribe, are commonly appropriated to natural groups;
and we speak of the Vegetable, Animal, Mineral King­
dom', but the other metaphors of Provinces, Districts,
&c., which this suggests, have not been commonly usedf.
It will of course be understood that each ascending
step of classification is deduced by the same process
from the one below. A Genus is a collection of Species
which resemble each other more than they resemble
other species; an Order is a collection of Genera having,
in like manner, the first degree of resemblance, and so on.
How close or how wide the Degrees of Resemblance are,
must depend upon the nature of the objects compared,
and cannot possibly be prescribed beforehand. Hence the
same term, Class and Order for instance, may imply, in
different provinces of nature, very different degrees of
* Adanson, p. cvi.
t Sub-Kingdom has recently been employed by some naturalists.
504 PHILOSOPHY OF THE CLASSIFICATORY SCIENCES.
Digitized by Google
METHODS OF NATURAL HISTORY. • 505
resemblance. The Classes of Animals are Insects, Birds,
Fish, Beasts, <
fcc. The Orders of Beasts are Ruminants,
Tardigrades, Plantigrades, &c. The two Classes of
Plants (according to the Natural Order*,) are Vascular
and Cellular, the latter having neither sexes, flowers,
nor spiral vessels. The Vascular Plants are divided
into Orders, as Umbelliferce, &c.; but
between this Class and its Orders are interposed two
other steps:—two Sub-classes, Dicotyledonous and Mono-
cotyledonous, and two Tribes of each: Angiospermice,
Gymnospermice of the first; and Petaloideee, Glumacice
of the second. Such interpolations are modifications of
the general formula of subordination, for the purpose of
accommodating it to the most prominent natural affinities.
16. Species.—As we have already seen in tracing the
principles of the Natural Method, when by the intimate
study of plants we seek to give fixity and definiteness to
the notion of resemblance and affinity on which all these
divisions depend, we are led to the study of Organization
and Analogy. But we make a reference to physio­
logical conditions even from the first, with regard to the
lowest step of our arrangement, the Species; for we
consider it a proof of the impropriety of separating two
Species, if it be shown that they can by any course of
propagation, culture, and treatment, the one pass into
the other. It is in this way, for example, that it has
been supposed to be established that the common Prim­
rose, Oxlip, Polyanthus, and Cowslip, are all the same
species. Plants which thus, in virtue of external cir­
cumstances, as soil, exposure, climate, exhibit differences
which may disappear by changing the circumstances,
are called Varieties of the species. And thus we cannot
say that a Species is a collection of individuals which
possess the First Degree of Resemblance ; for it is clear
* Lindley.
Digitized by Google
that a primrose resembles another primrose more than
it does a cowslip; but this resemblance only constitutes
a Variety. And we find that we must necessarily include
in our conception of Species, the notion of propagation
from the same stock. And thus a Species has been
well defined*: “ The collection of the individuals de­
scended from one another, or from common parents,
and of those which resemble these as much as these
resemble each other.” And thus the sexual doctrine of
plants, or rather the consideration of them as things
which propagate their kind, (whether by seed, shoot, or
in any other way,) is at the basis of our classifications.
17. The First permanent Degree of Resemblance
among organized beings is thus that which depends on
this relation of generation, and we might expect that the
groups which are connected by this relation would derive
their names from the notion of generation. It is curious
that both in Greek and Latin languages and in our own,
the words which have this origin (yevot, genus, kind,)
do not, in the phraseology of science at least, denote the
nearest degree of relationship, but have other terms
subordinate to them, which appear etymologically to
indicate a mere resemblance of appearance, (<T5os, spe­
cies, sort;) and these latter terms are appropriated to
the groups resulting from propagation. Probably the
reason of this is, that the former terms (genus, &c.) had
been applied so widely and loosely before the scientific
fixation of terms, that to confine them to what we call
species would have been to restrict them in a manner
too unusual to be convenient.
18. Varieties. Races.—The Species, as we have
said, is the collection of individuals which resemble
each other as much as do the offspring of a common
stock. But within the limits of this boundary, there
* Cuv,, Pegtie Animal\ p. 10.
506 PHILOSOPHY OF THE CLASSIFICATORY SCIENCES.
Digitized by Google
METHODS OF NATURAL HISTORY. 507
are often observable differences permanent enough to
attract our notice, though capable of being obliterated
by mixture in the course of generation. Such different
groups are called Varieties. Thus the Primrose and
Cowslip, as has been stated above, are found to be varie­
ties of the same plant; the Poodle and the Greyhound
are well marked varieties of the species dog. Such dif­
ferences are hereditary, and it may be long doubtful
whether such hereditary differences are varieties only,
or different species. In such cases the term Race has
been applied.
Sect. VI.—Nomenclature.
19. The Nomenclature of any branch of Natural
History is the collection of names of all its species;
which, when they become extremely numerous, requires
some artifice to make it possible to recollect or apply
them. The known species of plants, for example, were
10,000 at the time of Linnaeus, and are now probably
60,000. It would be useless to endeavour to frame and
employ separate names for each of these species.
The division of the objects into a subordinated sys­
tem of classification enables us to introduce a Nomen­
clature which does not require this enormous number of
names. The artifice employed to avoid this incon­
venience is to name a Species by means of two (or it
might be more) steps of the successive division. Thus
in Botany, each of the genera has its name, and the
species are marked by the addition of some epithet to
the name of the genus. In this manner about 1,700
generic names, with a moderate number of specific
names, were found by Linnaeus sufficient to designate
with precision all the species of vegetables known at his
time. And this Binary Method of Nomenclature has
been found so convenient that it has been universally
Digitized by Google
adopted in every other department of the Natural His­
tory of organized beings.
Many other modes of Nomenclature have been tried,
but no other has at all taken root. Linnaeus himself
appears at first to have intended marking each species
by the Generic Name accompanied by a characteristic
Descriptive Phrase; and to have proposed the employ­
ment.of a trivial Specific Name, as he termed it, only as
a method of occasional convenience. The use of these
trivial names, has, however, become universal, as we
have said, and is by many persons considered the greatr
est improvement introduced at the Linnaean reform.
Both Linnaeus and other writers (as Adanson) have
given many maxims with a view of regulating the selec­
tion of generic and specific names. The maxims of
Linnaeus were intended as much as possible to exclude
barbarism and confusion, and have, upon the whole,
been generally adopted; though many of them were
objected to by his contemporaries (Adanson and others*),
as capricious or unnecessary innovations. Many of the
names, introduced by Linnaeus, certainly appear fanciful
enough: thus he gives the name of Bauhinia to a plant
with leaves in pairs, because the Bauhins were a pair of
brothers; Banisteria is the name of a climbing plant,
in honour of Banister, who travelled among mountains.
But such names, once established by adequate authority,
lose all their inconvenience, and easily become per­
manent ; and hence the reasonableness of the Linnsean
rulef, that as such a perpetuation of the names of per­
sons by the names of plants is the only honour botanists
have to bestow, it ought to be used with care and
caution.
The generic name must, as Linnaeus says, be fixedj
* Pp. cxxix. cLxxii. + Phil. Bol., Sec. 239.
* lb., See. 222.
508 PHILOSOPHY OF THE CLASSIFICATOKY SCIENCES.
Digitized by Google
METHODS OF NATURAL HISTORY. 509
before we attempt to form a specific name; “ the latter
without the former is like the clapper without the bell.”
The name of the genus being established, the species
may be marked by adding to it “ a single word taken at
will from any quarterthat is, not involving a descrip­
tion or any essential property of the plant, but a casual
or arbitrary appellation*. Thus the various species of
Hieracium-f are Hieracium Alpinum, H. , H.
Pilosella, H. dubium, H. murorum, &c. where we see
how different may be the kind of origin of the words.
Attempts have been made at various times to form
the names of species from those of genera in some more
symmetrical manner. Thus some have numbered the
species of genus, 1, 2, 3, &c.; but this method is liable to
the inconveniences, first, that it offers nothing for the
memory to take hold of; and second, that if a new
species intermediate between 1 and 2, 2 and 3, &c., be
discovered, it cannot be put in its place. It has also
been proposed to mark the species by altering the termi­
nation of the genus. Thus AdansonJ, denoting a genus
by the name Fonna (Lychnidea), conceived he might
mark five of its species by altering the last vowel, ,
Fonna-e, F
o
n
n
a
-
i
, F
o
n
n
a
-
o,Fonna-u; then others
Fonna-ba, Fonna-ka, and so on. This course would be
liable to the same evils which have been noticed as
belonging to the numerical method.
The names of plants (and the same is true of animals)
have in common practice been binary only, consisting of
a generic and a specific name. The Class and Order
have not been admitted to form part of the appellation
of the species. Indeed it is easy to see that a name which
must be identical in so many instances as that of an
Order would be, would be felt as superfluous and burden­
some. Accordingly, Linnaeus makes it a precept that
* Phil. Boi.,Sec.260. + Hooker,/'/. Scot., 228.
’ i Pref. cLxxvi. § Phil. Bot., Sec. 215. •
Digitized by Google
the name of the Class and the Order must not be ex­
pressed but understood: and hence, he says, Royen, who
took Lilium for the name of a Class, rightly rejected it as
a generic name and substituted with the Greek
termination.
Yet we must not too peremptorily assume such
maxims as these to be universal for all classificatory
sciences. It is very possible that it may be found
advisable to use three terms, that of order, genus and
species, in designating minerals, as is done in Mohs’s
nomenclature; for example, Calc
Paratomous Hal Baryte.
It is possible also that it may be found useful in the
same science to mark some of the steps of classification
by the termination. Thus it has been proposed to con­
fine the termination ite to the Order Silicides of Nau­
mann, as Apophyllife, Stilbife, Leucife, &c., and to use
names of different form in other orders, as Talc Spar for
Brennerite, Pyramidal Titanium Oxide for Octahedrite.
Some such method appears to be the most likely to
give us a tolerable mineralogical nomenclature.
S ect. VII.—Diagnosis.
20. German Naturalists speak of a part of the general
method which they call the Characteristik of Natural
History, and which is distinguished from the Systematik
of the science. The Systematick arranges the objects
by means of all their resemblances, the Characteristic!:
enables us to detect their place in the arrangement
by means of a few of their characters. What these
characters are to be, must be discovered by observation
of the groups and divisions of the system when they are
formed. To construct a collection of such as shall be
clear and fixed, is a useful, and generally a difficult task;
for there is usually no apparent connexion between the
marks which are used in discriminating the groups, and
510 PHILOSOPHY OF THE CLASSIFICATORY SCIENCES.
Digitized by Googk
METHODS OF NATURAL HISTORY. 511
the nature of the groups themselves. They are assumed
only because the Naturalist, extensively and exactly
acquainted with the groups and the properties of the
objects which compose them, sees, by a survey of the
field, that these marks divide it properly.
The Characteristick has been termed by some English
Botanists the Diagnosis of plants; a word which we may
conveniently adopt. The Diagnosis of any genus or
species is different according to the system we follow.
Thus in the Linnsean System the Diagnosis of the Rose
is in the first place given by its Class and Order: it is
Icosandrous, and Polygynous; and then the Generic Dis­
tinction is that the calyx is five-cleft, the tube urceolate,
including many hairy achenia, the receptacle villous*. In
the Natural System the Rose-Tribe are distinguished as
beingf “ Polypetalous dicotyledons, with lateral styles,
superior simple ovaria, regular perigynous stamens, ex­
albuminous definite seeds, and alternate stipulate leaves.”
And the true Roses are further distinguished by having
“ Nuts, numerous, hairy, terminated by the persistent
lateral style and inclosed within the fleshy tube of the
calyx,” &c.
It will be observed that in a rigorous Artificial System
the Systematick coincides with the Characteristick; the
Diataxis with the Diagnosis; the reason why a plant is
put in a division is identical with the mode by which it is
known to be in the division. The Rose is in the class
icosandria, because it has many stamens inserted in the
calyx; and when we see such a set of stamens we imme­
diately know the class. But this is not the case with
the Diagnosis of Natural Families. Thus the genera La-
mium and Galeopsis (Dead Nettle and Hemp Nettle),
are each formed into a separate group in virtue of their
general resemblances and differences, and not because
* Lindley, Nat.Syst., p. 149. t 76., p. 81. 3.
Digitized by Google
the former has one tooth on each side of the lower lip»
and the latter a notch in its upper lip, though they are
distinguished by these marks. r *
Thus so far as our Systems are natural, (which, as we
have shown, all systems to a certain extent must be), the
Characteristick is distinct both from a Natural and an
Artificial System; and is, in fact, an Artificial Key to a
Natural System. As being Artificial, it takes as few
characters as possible; as being Natural, its characters
are not selected by any general or prescribed rule, but
follow the natural affinities. The Botanists who have
made any steps in the formation of a natural method of
plants since Linnaeus, have all attempted to give a Diag­
nosis corresponding to the Diataxis of their method.
5 1 2 PHILOSOPHY OF THE CLASSIFICATORY SCIENCES.
Chapter III.
‘ APPLICATION OF T H E NATURAL H ISTORY
M ETHOD TO M INERALOGY. .
1. The philosophy of the Sciences of Classification has
had great light thrown upon it by discussions concerning
the methods which are used in Botany: for that science
is one of the most complete examples which can be con­
ceived of the consistent and successful application of the
principles and ideas of Classification; and this application
has been made in general without giving rise to any very
startling paradoxes, or disclosing any insurmountable
difficulties. But the discussions concerning methods of
Mineralogical Classification have been instructive for
quite a different reason: they have brought into view the
boundaries and the difficulties of the process of Classifi­
cation; and have presented examples in which every
possible mode of classifying appeared to involve inex-
Digitized by Google
APPLICATION TO MINERALOGY. 513
tricable contradictions. I will notice some of the points
of this kind which demand our attention, referring to the
works published recently by several mineralogists.
In the History of Mineralogy we noticed the attempt
made by Mohs and other Germans to apply to minerals
a method of arrangement similar to that which has been
so successfully employed for plants. The survey which
we have now taken of the grounds of that method will
point out some of the reasons of the very imperfect
success of this attempt. We have already said that the
Terminology of Mineralogy was materially reformed by
Werner; and including in this branch of the subject (as
we must do) the Crystallography of later writers, it may
be considered as to a .great extent complete. Of the
attempts at a Natural arrangement, that of Mohs appears
to proceed by the method of blind , the undefinable
perception of relationship, by which the earliest attempts
at a Natural Arrangement of plants were made. Breit­
haupt, however, has made (though I do not know that he
has published) an essay in a mode which corresponds very
nearly to Adanson's process of multiplied comparisons.
Having ascertained the specific gravity and hardness of
all the species of minerals, he arranged them in a table,
representing by two lines at right angles to each other
these two numerical quantities. Thus all minerals were
distributed according to two co-ordinates representing
specific gravity and hardness. He conceived that the
groups which were thus brought together were natural
groups. On both these methods, and on all similar ones,
we might observe, that in minerals as in plants, the
mere general notion of Likeness cannot lead us to a real
arrangement: this notion requires to have precision and
aim given it by some other relation;—by the relation
of Chemical Composition in minerals, as by the relation
of Organic Function in vegetables. The physical and
VOL. i. w. p. L L
Digitized by Google
crystallographical properties of minerals must be studied
with reference to their constitution; and they must be
arranged into Groups which have some common Che­
mical Character, before we can consider any advance as
made towards a Natural Arrangement.
In reality, it happens in Mineralogy as it happened
in Botany, that those speculators are regulated by an
obscure perception of this ulterior relation, who do not
profess to be regulated by it. Several of the Orders of
Mohs have really great unity of chemical character, and
thus have good evidence of their being really Natural
Orders.
2. Supposing the Diataxis of minerals thus obtained,
Mohs attempted the Diagnosis ; and his
Ofthe Mineral Kingdom \published at
was the first public indication of his having constructed
a system. From the nature of a Characteristick, it is
necessarily brief and without any ostensible principle;
but its importance was duly appreciated by the author’s
countrymen. Since that time, many attempts have been
made at improved arrangements of minerals, but none,
I think, (except perhaps that of Breithaupt,) professing
to proceed rigorously on the principles of Natural His­
tory ;—to arrange by means of external characters, neg­
lecting altogether, or rather postponing, the consideration
of chemical properties. By relaxing from this rigour,
however, and by combining physical and chemical consi­
derations, arrangements have been obtained (for exam­
ple, that of Naumann,) which appear more likely than
the one of Mohs to be approximations to an ultimate
really natural system. Naumann’s Classes are Hydro-
lytes, Haloides, Silicides, Metal Oxides, Metals, Sul-
phurides, Anthracides, with subdivisions of Orders, as
Anhydrous unmetallic Silicides. It may be remarked
that the designations of these are mostly chemical. As
514 PHILOSOPHY OF THE CLAS8IFICATORY SCIENCES.
Digitized by Googk
APPLICATION TO MINERALOGY. 5 1 5
we have observed already, Chemistry, and Mineralogy in
its largest sense, are each the necessary supplement of
the other. If Chemistry furnish the Nomenclature,
Mineralogy must supply the Physiography: if the Ar­
rangement be founded on External Characters and the
Names be independent of Chemistry, the chemical com­
position of each species is an important scientific Truth
respecting it.
3. The inquiry may actually occur, whether any sub­
ordination of groups in the mineral kingdom has really
been made out. The ancient chemical arrangements,
for instance, that of Haiiy, though professing to distri­
bute minerals according to Classes, Orders, Genera, and
Species, were not only arbitrary, hut inapplicable; for
the first postulate of any method, that the species should
have constant characters of unity and difference, was not
satisfied. It was not ascertained that carbonate of lime
was really distinguishable in all cases from carbonate of
magnesia, or of iron ; yet these species were placed in
remote parts of the system : and the above carbonates
made just so many species ; although, if they were dis­
tinct from one another at all, they were further distin­
guishable into additional species. Even now, we may,
perhaps, say that the limits of mineralogical species, and
their laws of fixity, are not yet clearly seen. For the dis­
coveries of the isomorphous relations and of the optical
properties of minerals have rather shown us in what
direction the object lies, than led us to the goal. It is
clear that, in the mineral kingdom, the Definition of
Species, borrowed from the laws of the continuation of
the kind, which holds throughout the organic world, fails
us altogether, and must be replaced by some other con­
dition : nor is it difficult to see that the definite atomic
relations of the chemical constituents, and the definite
crystalline angle, must supply the principles of the
L L 2
Digitized by Google
Spefi.de Identity for minerals. Yet the exact limits of
definiteness in both these cases (when we admit the
effect of mechanical mixtures, &c.) have not yet been
completely disentangled. Moreover, any arbitrary as­
sumption (as the allowance of a certain per-centage of
mixture, or a certain small deviation in the angle,) is
altogether contrary to the philosophy of the Natural
System, and can lead to no stable views. It is only bv
laborious, extensive, and minute research, that we can
hope to attain to any solid basis of arrangement.
4. Still, though there are many doubts respecting
mineralogical species, a large number of such species are
so far fixed that they may be supposed capable of being
united under the higher divisions of a system with ap­
proximate truth. Of these higher divisions, those which
have been termed Orders appear to tend to something
like a fixed chemical character. Thus the Haloids of
Naumann, and mostly those of Mohs, are combinations
of an oxide with an acid, and thus resemble Salts,
whence their name. The Silicides contain most of Mohs’s
Spaths: and the Orders Pyrites, Glance, and Blende.
are common to Naumann and Mohs; being established
by the latter on a difference of external character, which
difference is, indeed, very manifest; and being included
by the former in one chemical Class, The
distinctions of Hydrous and Anhydrous, Metallic and
Unmetallic, are, of course, chemical distinctions, but
occur as the differences of Orders in Naumann’s mixed
system.
We may observe that some French writers, following
Haiiy’s last edition, use, instead of metallic and unmela.fi
lie, autopside metallic and heteropside metallic; meaning
by this phraseology to acknowledge the discovery that
earths, &c., are metallic, though they do not appear to
be so, while metals both are and appear metallic. But
51G PHILOSOPHY OF THE CLA8SIFICATORY SCIENCES.
Digitized by Google
APPLICATION TO MINERALOGY. 517
this seems to be a refinement not only useless but ab­
surd. For what is gained by adding the word metallic,
which is common to all, and therefore makes no dis­
tinction? If certain metals are distinguished by their
appearing to be metals, this appearance is a reason for
giving them the peculiar name, metals. Nothing is
gained by first bringing earths and metals together, and
then immediately separating them again by new and
inconvenient names. No proposition can be expressed
better by calling earths heteropside metallic substances,
and therefore such nomenclature is to be rejected.
Granting, then, that the Orders of the best recent
mineralogical systems approximate to natural groups,
we are led to ask whether the same can be said of the
Genera of the Natural History systems, such as those of
Mohs and Breithaupt. And here I must confess that I
see no principle in these Genera; I have failed to appre­
hend the conceptions by the application of which they
have been constructed: I shall therefore not pass any
further judgment upon them. The subordination of
Mineralogical Species to Orders is a manifest gain to
science: in the interposition of Genera I see nothing
but a source of confusion.
5. In Mineralogy, as in other branches of natural
history, a reformed arrangement ought to give rise to a
reformed Nomenclature; and for this, there is more occa­
sion at present in Mineralogy than there was in Botany
at the worst period, at least as far as the extent of the
subject allows. The characters of minerals are much
more dimly and unfrequently developed than those of
plants; hence arbitrary chemical arrangements, which
could not lead to any natural groups, and therefore not to
any good names, prevailed till recently; and this state of
things produced an anarchy in which every man did what
seemed right in his own eyes,—proposed species without
Digitized by Googk
any ascertained distinction, and without a thought of
subordination, and gave them arbitrary names; and thus
with only about two or three hundred known species, we
have thousands upon thousands of names, of anomalous
form and uncertain application.
Mohs has attempted to reform the Nomenclature of
the subject in a mode consistent with his attempt to
reform the System. In doing this, he has fatally trans­
gressed a rule always insisted upon by the legislators of
Botany, of altering usual names as little as possible; and
his names are both so novel and so cumbrous, that they
appear to have little chance of permanent currency. They
are, perhaps, more unweildy than they need to be, by
referring, as we have said, to three of the steps of his
classification, the Species, Genus, and Order. We may,
however, assert confidently, from the whole analogy of
natural history, that no good names can be found which
do not refer to at least two terms of the arrangement.
This rule has been practically adopted to a great extent
by Naumann, who gives to most of his Haloids the name
Spar, as Calc spar, Iron spar, &c.; to all his Oxides the
terminal word E rz (Ore); and to the species ofthe orders
Kids (Pyrites), Glance, and Blende, these names. It has
also been theoretically assented to by Beudant, who pro­
poses that we should say silicate stilbite, silicate
carbonate calcaire, carbonate witherite; sulphate coupe­
rose, &c. One great difficulty in this case would arise
from the great number of silicides; it is not likely that
any names would obtain a footing which tacked the term
silicide to another word for each of these species. The
artifice which I have proposed, in order to obviate this
difficulty, is that we should make the names of the sili­
cides, and those alone, end in ite or lite, which a large
proportion of them do already.
By this and a few similar contrivances, we might,
5 1 8 PHILOSOPHY OF THE CLASSIFICATORY SCIENCES.
Digitized by Google
APPLICATION TO MINERALOGY. 519
I conceive, without any inconvenient change, introduce
into Mineralogy a systematic nomenclature.
6. I shall now proceed to make a few remarks on a
work on Mineralogy more recent than those which I
have above noticed, and written with express reference
to such difficulties as I have been discussing. I allude to
the treatise of M. Necker, Le Règne Mineral ramené
aux Méthodes d Histoire N
a
t
u
r
*, which also conta
various dissertations on the Philosophy of Classification
ingeneral, and its application to Mineralogy in particular.
M. Necker remarks very justly, that Mineralogy, as it
has hitherto been treated, differs from all other branches
of Natural History in this :—that while it is invested
with all the forms of the sciences of classification,—
Classes, Divisions, Genera, and the like,—the properties
of those bodies to which the mineralogical student’s
attention is directed have no bearing whatever on the
classification. A person, he remarks-), might be perfectly
well acquainted with all the characters of minerals which
Werner or Haiiy examined so carefully, and might yet
be quite unable to assign to any mineral its place in the
divisions of their methods. There is J a complete sepa­
ration between the study of mineralogical characters and
the recognition of the name and systematic place of a
mineral. Those who know mineralogy well, may know
minerals ill, or hardly at all ; the systematist may be in
such knowledge vastly inferior to the mineral-dealer or
the miner. In this respect there is a complete contrast
between this science and other classificatory sciences.
Again, in the best-known systems of Mineralogy, (as
those of Werner and Haiiy,) the bodies which are
grouped together as belonging to the same division, have
not, as they have in other classificatory sciences, any
resemblance. The different members of the larger
• Paris, 1835. + Règne M
, p. 3. J
Digitized by Googk
classes are united by the common possession of some
abstract property,—as, that they all contain iron. This
is a property to which no common circumstance in the
bodies themselves corresponds. What is there common
to the minerals named oxidulous iron, sulphuret of iron,
carbonate of iron, sulphate of iron, except that they all
contain iron? And when we have classed these bodies
together, what general assertion can we make concern­
ing them, except that which is the ground of our classi­
fication, that they contain iron? They have nothing in
common with iron or with each other in any other way.
Again, as these classes have no general properties,
all the properties are particular to the species ; and the
descriptions of these necessarily become both tediously
long, and inconveniently insulated.
7. These inconveniences arise from making Chemical
Composition the basis of Mineralogical Classification
without giving Chemical Analysis the first place among
Mineral Properties. Shall we, then, correct this omis­
sion, so far as it has affected mineralogical systems?
Shall we teach the student the chemical analysis of
minerals, and then direct him to classify them according
to the results of his analysis*?
But why should we do this ? To what purpose, or
on what ground, do we arrange the results of chemical
analysis according to the forms and subordination of
natural history? Is not chemistry a science distinct from
natural history? Are not the sciences opposed? Is not
natural history confined to organic bodies? Can mere
chemical elements and their combinations be, with any
propriety or consistency, arranged into species, genera,
and families ? What is the principle on which genera and
species depend? Do not species imply individuals? What
is an individual in the case of a chemical substance ?
* Regne Mineral, p. 18.
520 PHILOSOPHY OF THE CLASSIFICATORY SCIENCES.
Digitized by Googk
APPLICATION TO MINERALOGY. 521
8. We thus find some of the widest and deepest
questions of the philosophy of classification brought under
our consideration when we would provide a method for
the classification of minerals. The answers to these
questions are given by M. Necker; and I shall state
some of his opinions ; taking the liberty of adding such
remarks as are suggested by referring the subject to
those principles which have already been established in
this work.
M. Necker asserts* that the distinctions of different
sciences depend, not on the objects they consider, but on
the different and independent points of view on which
they proceed. Each science has its logic, that is, its
mode of applying the general rules of human reason to
its own special case. It has been said by somef, that
in minerals, natural Tiistory and chemistry contemplate
common objects, and thus form a single science. But
do chemistry and natural history consider minerals in
the same point of view ?
The answer is, that they do not. Physics and che­
mistry consider the properties of bodies in an abstract
manner; as, their composition, their elements, their
mutual actions, with the laws of these ; their forces, as
attraction, affinity ; all which objects are abstract ideas.
In these cases we have nothing to do with bodies them­
selves, but as the vehicles of the powers and properties
which we contemplate.
Natural history, on the other hand, has to do with
natural bodies: their properties are not considered ab­
stractedly, but only as characters. If the properties are
abstracted, it is but for a moment. Natural history
has to describe and class bodies as they are. All which
cannot be perceived by the senses, belongs not to its
domain, as molecules, atoms, elements.
* Règne M in e ra l, p. 23. t lb ., p. 27-
Digitized by Google
Natural history* may have recourse to physics or
chemistry in order to recognize those properties of
bodies which serve as characters; but natural history is
not, on that account, physics or chemistry. Classifica­
tion is the essential business of the natural historianf,
to which task chemistry and physics are only instru­
mental, and the further account of properties only com­
plementary.
It has been said, in support of the doctrine that
chemistry and mineralogy are identical, that chemistry
does not neglect external characters. “The chemist in
describing sulphur, mentions its colour, taste, odour,
hardness, transparence, crystalline form, specific gravity;
how does he then differ from the mineralogist?” But
to this it is replied, that these notices of the external
characters of this or any substance are introduced in
chemistry merely as convenient marks of recognition;
whereas they are essential in mineralogy. If we had
taken the account given of several substances instead of
one, we should have seen that the chemist and the natu­
ralist consider them in ways altogether different. The
chemist will make it his business to discover the mutual
action of the substances; he will combine them, form
new products, determine the proportions of the elements.
The mineralogist will divide the substances into groups
according to their properties, and then subdivide these
groups, till he refers each substance to its species. Ex­
terior and physical characters are merely accessory and
subordinate for the chemist; chemistry is merely instru­
mental for the mineralogist.
This view agrees with that to which we have been
led by our previous reasonings; and may, according to
our principles, be expressed briefly by saying, that the
Idea which chemistry has to apply is the Idea of Ele­
* Regne Mineral, p. 37- + p. 41.
522 PHILOSOPHY OF THE CLASSIFICATORY SCIENCES.
Digitized by Googk
APPLICATION TO MINERALOGY. 5 2 3
mentary Composition, while natural history applies the
Idea of Graduated Resemblances, and thus performs the
task of classification.
9. The question occurs*, whether Natural History
can be applied to Inorganic Substances ? And the an­
swer to this question is, that it can be applied, if there
are such things as inorganic individuals, since the resem­
blances and differences with which natural history has to
do are the resemblances and differences of individuals.
What is an Individual ? It certainly is not that which
is so simple that it cannot be divided. Individual animals
are composed of many parts. But if we examine, we
shall find that our Idea of an Individual is, that it is a
whole composed of parts, which are not similar to the
whole, and have not an independent existence, while the
whole has an independent existence and a definite formf.
What then is the Mineralogical Individual ? At first,
while minerals were studied for their use, the most pre­
cious of the substances which they contained was looked
upon as the characteristic of the mineral. The smallest
trace of silver made a mineral an ore of silver. Thus
forms and properties were disregarded, and substance
was considered as identical with mineral. And hencef
Daubenton refused to recognize species in the mineral
kingdom, because he recognized no individuals. He
proposed to call sorts what we call species. In this way
of considering minerals, there are no individuals.
10. But still this is not satisfactory: for if we take
a well formed and distinct crystal, this clearly is an
individual §.
It may be objected, that the crystal is divisible
(according to the theory of crystallography) into smaller
solids ; that these small solids are really the simple ob­
jects; and that actual crystals are formed by combina­
tions of these molecules according to certain laws.
* Règne Mineral, p
.
46. f
i
b
.
, p
.52. p.54. §/6.,
Digitized by Googk
But, as we have already said, an individual is such,
not because it cannot be divided, but because it cannot
be divided into parts similar to the whole. As to the
division of the form into its component laws, this is an |
abstract proceeding, foreign to natural history *. There­
fore there is so far nothing to prevent a crystal from
being an individual.
11. We cannot (M. Neckergoes on to remark) con­
sider the Integrant Molecules as individuals. These are
useful abstractions, but abstractions only, which we must
not deal with as real objects. Haiiy himself warns usf
that his doctrine of increments is a purely abstract
conception, and that nature, in fact, follows a different i
process. Accordingly, Weiss and Mohs express laws
identical with those of Haiiy, without even speaking of
molecules; and Wollaston and Davy have deemed it
probable that the molecules are not polyhedrons, but
spheres or spheroids. Such mere creations of the m
ind
can never be treated as individuals. If the maxim of
natural history,—that the Species is a collection of Indi­
viduals—be applied so as to make those individuals
mere abstractions ; or if, instead of Individuals, we take |
such an abstraction as Substance or Matter, the course
of natural history is altogether violated. And yet this |
errour has hitherto generally prevailed ; and minera- ,
logists have classified, not things, but abstract ideas*.
12. But it may be said$, will not the small solids
obtained by Cleavage better answer the idea of indi­
viduals? To this it is replied, that these small solids
have no independent existence. They are only the result
of a mode of division. They are never found separate
and independent. The secondary forms which they
compose are determined by various circumstances (the
nature of the solution, &c.) ; and the cleavage which pro-
• Règne Mineral, p. 58. t 76., p. 61. J 76-, p. 67-
§ lb., p. (59.
524 PHILOSOPHY OF THE CLASSIFICATORY SCIENCES.
Digitized by Googk
APPLICATION TO MINERALOGY. 525
duces these small solids is only one result among many
from the crystalline forces *.
Thus neither Integrant Molecules, nor Solids ob­
tained by Cleavage, can be such mineralogical Individuals
as the spirit of natural .history requires. Hence it ap­
pears that we must take the real Crystals for Indivi­
duals!.
13. We must, however, reject crystals (generally
large ones) which are obviously formed of several smaller
ones of a similar form (as occurs so often in quartz and
calc spar.) We must also distinguish cases in which a
large regular form is composed of smaller but different
regular forms (as octahedrons of flúor spar made up of
cubes). Here the small component forms are the indi­
viduals. Also we must notice the cases in which we
have a natural crystal, similar to the primary form.
Here the face will show whether the body is a result
obtained by cleavage or a natural individual.
14. It will be objected $, that the crystalline form
ought not to be made the dominant character in mine­
ralogy, since it rarely occurs perfect. To this it is
replied, that even if the application of the principle be
difficult, still it has been shown to be the only true prin­
ciple, and therefore we have no alternative. But fur­
ther||, it is not true that amorphous substances are more
numerous than crystals. In Leonhard’s Manual of
tognosy, there are 377 mineral substances. Of these,
281 have a crystalline structure, and 96 only have not
been found in a regular form.
Again, the 281 crystalline forms have each its varie­
ties, some of which are crystalline, and some are not so.
Now the crystalline varieties amount to 1453, and the
uncrystalline to 186 only. Thus mineralogy, according
• Régne M
i
n
e
r
a
l
, p. 71. + A , p. 73- + / f>
., p. 7B.
§ 76., p. 79- II IK p. 82.
Digitized by Googk
to the view of it here presented, has a sufficiently wide
field*.
15. It will be objectedf, that according to this mode
of proceeding, we must reject from our system all non­
crystalline minerals. But we reply, that if the mass be
composed of crystals, the size of the crystals makes no
difference. Now lamellar and other compact masses are
very generally groups of crystals in various positions.
Individuals mutilated and mixed together are not the less
individuals ; and therefore such masses may be treated
as objects of natural history.
If we cannot refer all rocks to crystalline species,
those which elude our method may appear as an appen­
dix, corresponding to those which botanists call genera
incertæ sedis\.
But these genera and species will often be afterwards
removed into the cystalline part of the system, by being
identified with crystalline species. Thus pyrope, A
c.,
have been referred to garnet, and , wacke, &c., to
compound rocks. Thus veins of Dolerite, visibly com­
posed of two or three elements, pass to an apparently
simple state by becoming fine-grained §.
16. Finally II, we have to ask, are artificial crystals to
enter into our classification? M. Necker answers, No;
because they are the result of art, like mules, mestizos,
hybrids, and the like.
17. Upon these opinions, we may observe, that they
appear to be, in the main, consistent with the soundest
philosophy. That each natural crystal is an individual,
is a doctrine which is the only basis of mineralogy as a
Natural Historical science ; yet the imperfections and
confused unions of crystals make this principle difficult
to apply. Perhaps it may be expressed in a more pre-
• Règne Mineral., p. 84. + /ft, p. 86, j /ft., p.91.
§ /ft., p.93. || /ft., p. 95.
526 PHILOSOPHY OF THE CLASSIFICÀTORY SCIENCES.
Digitized by Googk
APPLICATION TO MINERALOGY. 527
cise manner by referring to the crystalline forces, and to
the axes by which their operation is determined, rather
than to the external form. portion of a mineral
substance is a mineralogical individual which is deter­
mined by crystalline forces acting to the same axes. In
this way we avoid the difficulty arising from the absence
of faces, and enable ourselves to use either cleavage, or
optical properties, or any others, as indications of the
identity of the individual. The individual extends so
far as the polar forces extend by which crystalline form
is determined, whether or not those forces produce their
full effect, namely, a perfectly circumscribed polyhedron.
18. There is only one material point on which our
principles lead us to differ from M. Necker;—the pro­
priety of including artificial crystals in our mineralo­
gical classification. To exclude them, as he does, is a
conclusion so entirely at variance with the whole course
of his own reasonings, that it is difficult to conceive that
he would persist in his conclusion, if his attention were
drawn to the question more steadily. For, as he justly
says*, each science has its appropriate domain, deter­
mined by its peculiar point of view. Now artificial and
natural crystals are considered in the same point of
view, (namely, with reference to crystalline, physical,
and optical properties, as subservient to classification,)
and ought, therefore, to belong to the same science.
Again, he saysf, that Chemistry would reject as useless
all notice of the physical properties and external cha­
racters of substances, if a special science were to take
charge of the description and classification of these pro­
ducts. But such a special science must be Mineralogy;
for we cannot well make one science of the classification
of natural, and another of that of artificial substances: or
if we do, the two sciences will be identical in method and
* Régne M
i
n
e
r
a
l
, p. 23. t lb., p. 36.
Digitized by Googk
principles, and will extend over each other’s boundaries,
so that it will be neither useful nor possible to distin­
guish them. Again, M. Necker’s own reasonings on the
selection of the individual in mineralogy are supported
by well chosen examples* ; but these examples are taken
from artificial salts ; as, for instance, common salt cry­
stallizing in different mixtures. Again, the analogy of
mules and mestizos, as products of art, with chemical
compounds, is not just. Chemical compounds corre­
spond rather to natural species, propagated by man under
the most natural circumstances, in order that he may
study the laws of their production f.
19. But the decisive argument against the separation
of natural and artificial crystals in our schemes of classi­
fication is, that we cannot make such a separation. Sub­
stances which were long known only as the products of
the laboratory, are often discovered, after a time, in
natural deposits. Are the crystals which are found in a
forgotten retort or solution to be considered as belong­
ing to a different science from those which occur in a
deserted mine? And are the crystals which are pro­
duced where man has turned a stream of water or air
out of its course, to be separated from natural crystals,
when the composition, growth, and properties, are exactly
the same in both ? And again : How many natural cry­
stals can we already produce by synthesis ! How many
more may we hope to imitate hereafter ! M. Necker
himself states}:, that Mitscherlich found, in the scoriæ
of the mines of Sweden and Germany, artificial minerals
having the same composition and the same crystalline
• Règne Mineral, p. 71*
t We may remark that M. Necker, in his own arrangement nf
minerals, inserts among his species iron and lead, which do not occur
native.
t Règne Mineral, p. 151.
5 2 8 PHILOSOPHY OF THE CLASSIFICATORY SCIENCES.
Digitized by Googk
APPLICATION TO MINERALOGY. 529
form with natural minerals: as silicates of iron, lime,
and magnesia, agreeing with peridot; bisilicate of iron,
lime, and magnesia, agreeing with pyroxene; red oxide
of copper; oxide of zinc; protoxide of iron (Jer oxydulS);
sulphurets of iron, zinc, lead; arseniuret of nickel; black
mica. These were accidental results of fusion. But
M. Berthier, by bringing together the elements in pro­
per quantities, has succeeded in composing similar mine­
rals, and has thus obtained artificial silicates, with the
same forms and the same characters as natural silicates.
Other chemists (M. Haldat, M. Becquerel) have, in like
manner, obtained, by artificial processes, other crystals,
known previously as occurring naturally. How are
these crystals, thus identical with natural minerals, to
be removed out of the domain of mineralogy, and trans­
ferred to a science which shall classify artificial crystals
only ? If this be done, the mineralogist will not be able
to classify any specimen till he has human testimony
whether it was found naturally occurring or produced
by chemical art. Or is the other alternative to be
taken, and are these crystals to be given up to mine­
ralogy because they occur naturally also? But what
can be more unphilosophical than to refer to separate
sciences the results of chemical processes closely allied,
and all but identical? The chemist constructs bisili­
cates, and these are classified by the mineralogist: but
if he constructs a trisilicate, it belongs to another
science. All these intolerable incongruities are avoided
by acknowledging that artificial, as well as natural,
crystals belong to the domain of mineralogy. It is, in
fact, the nameonly of Mineralogy which appears to dis­
cover any inconsistency in this mode of proceeding.
Mineralogy is the representative of a science which has
a wider office than mineralogists first contemplated; but
which must exist, in order that the body of science may
vol. i. w .p. M m
Digitized by Googk
be complete. There must, as we have already said, be
a Science, the object of which is to classify bodies by
their physical characters, in order that we may have
some means of asserting chemical truths concerning
bodies ; some language in which we may express the
propositions which chemical analysis discovers. And
this Science will have its object prescribed, not by any
accidental or arbitrary difference of the story belonging
to each specimen ;—not by knowing whether the speci­
men was found in the mine or in the laboratory ; pro­
duced by attempting to imitate nature, or to do violence
to her :— but will have its course determined by its own
character. The range and boundaries of this Science
will be regulated by the Ideas with which it deals.
Like all other sciences, it must extend to everything to
which its principles apply. The limits of the province
which it includes are fixed by the consideration that it
must be a connected whole. No previous definition, no
historical accident, no casual phrase, can at all stand in
the way of philosophical consistency;—can make this
Science exclude what that includes, or oblige it to admit
what that rejects. And thus, whatever we call our
Science ;—whether we term it External Chemistry.
Mineralogy, the Natural History of Inorganic Bodies;
—since it can be nothing but the Science of the Classi­
fication of Inorganic Bodies of definite forms and pro­
perties, it must classify all such bodies, whether or not
they be minerals, and whether or not they be natural.
20. In the application of the principles of classifica­
tion to minerals, the question occurs, What are to be
considered as mineral Species ? By Species we are to
understand, according to the usage of other parts of
natural history, the lowest step of our subordinate divi­
sions ;—the most limited of the groups which have defi­
nite distinctions. What definite distinctions of groups
5 3 0 PHILOSOPHY OF THE CLASSIF1CATORY SCIENCES.
Digitized by Googk
APPLICATION TO MINERALOGY. 531
of objects of any kind really occur in nature, is to be
learnt from an examination of nature: and the result
of our inquiries will be some general principle which
connects the members of each group, and distinguishes
the members of groups which, though contiguous, are
different. In the classification of organized bodies, the
rule which thus presides over the formation of Species
is the principle of reproduction. Those animals and
those plants are of the same Species which are produced
from a common stock, or which resemble each other as
much as the progeny of a common stock. Accordingly
in practice, if any questions arise whether two varieties
of form be of the same or different species, it is settled
by reference to the fact of reproduction; and when it is
ascertained that the two forms come within the habitual
and regular limits of a common circle of reproduction,
they are held to be of the same species. Now in cry­
stals, this principle of reproduction disappears altogether,
and the basis of the formation of species must be sought
elsewhere. We must have some other principle to
replace the reproduction which belongs only to organic
life. This principle will be, we may expect, one which
secures the permanence and regularity of mineral forms,
as the reproductive power does of animal and vegetable.
Such a principle is the Poner of Crystallization. The
forces of which solidity, cohesion, and crystallization are
the result, are those which give to minerals their perma­
nent existence and their physical properties; and ever
since the discovery of the distinctions of Crystalline
Forms and Crystalline Systems, it is certain that this
force distinguishes groups of crystals in the most pre­
cise and definite manner. The rhombohedral carbonates
of lime and of iron, for instance, are distinguished ex­
actly by the angles of their rhombohedrons. And if, in
the case of any proposed crystal, we should doubt to
M M 2
Digitized by Googk
which kind the specimen belongs, the measurement of
the angles of cleavage would at once decide the ques­
tion. The principle of Crystallization therefore appears,
from analogy, to be exactly fitted to take the place of
the principle of animal Generation. The forces which
make the individual permanent and its properties
definite, here stand in the place of the forces which
preserve the race, while individuals are generated and
die.
21. According to this view, the different modifica­
tions of the same crystalline form would be Varieties
only of the same species. All the various solids, for
example, which are produced by the different laws of
derivation of rhombohedral carbonate of lime, would
fall within the same Species. And this appears to be
required by the general analogy of Natural History. For
these differences of form, produced by the laws of crys­
talline derivation, are not definite. The faces which are
added to one form in order to produce another, may be
of any size, small or large, and thus the crystal which
represents one modification passes by insensible degrees
to another. The forms of calc spar, which we call dog­
tooth spar, cannon spar, nail-head spar, and the like,
appear at first, no doubt, distinct enough ; but so do
the races of dogs. And we find, in the mineral as in
the animal, that the distinction is obliterated by taking
such intermediate steps as really occur. And if a frag­
ment of any of these crystals is given us, we can deter­
mine that it is rhombohedral carbonate of lime ; but it
is not possible, in general, to determine to which of the
kinds of crystal it has belonged.
22. Notwithstanding these considerations, M. Necker
has taken for his basis of mineral species* the Secon­
dary Modifications, and not the Primary Forms. Thus
* Règne Mineral, p. 396.
532 PHILOSOPHY OF THE CLASSIFICATOKY SCIENCES.
Digitized by Google
APPLICATION TO MINERALOGY. 533
cubical g
a
l
e
n
a
, octahedral g
a
l
, and triform
are, with him, three species of crystals.
On this I have to observe, as I have already done,
that on this principle we have no definite distinction of
species; for these forms may and do pass into each
other : among cubo-octahedrons of galena occur cubes.
and octahedrons, as one face or another vanishes, and
the transition is insensible. We shall, on this principle,
find almost always three or four species in the same tuft
of crystals ; for almost every individual in such assem­
blages may exhibit a different combination of secondary
faces. Again, in cases where the secondary laws are
numerous, it would be impracticable to enumerate all
their combinations, and impossible therefore to give a
list of species. Accordingly M. Necker* gives seventy-
one Species of spath c
a
l
c
a
i
r
e
, and then says, “ No
n’avons pas énuméré la dixième partie des espèces con­
nues de ce genre, qui se montent à plus de huit cents.’’
Again, in many substances, of which few crystals are
found, every new specimen would be a new species ; if
indeed it were perfect enough to be referred to a species
at all. But from a specimen without perfect external
form, howqver perfect in crystalline character, although
everything else might be known,—angles, optical pro­
perties, physical properties, and chemical constitution,—
the species could not be determined. Thus M. Necker
saysf of the micas, “ Quant aux espèces propre à chaque
genre, la lacune sera presque complète; car jusqu’ici
les cristaux entiers de Mica et de Talc n’ont pas été fort
communs.”
These inconveniences arise from neglecting the lead­
ing rule of natural history, that the predominant prin­
ciple of the existence of an object must determine the
Species; whether this principle be Reproduction operat-
* Règne Mineral, p. 364. t lb., n. 414.
Digitized by Googk
534 PHILOSOPHY OF THE CLASSIFICATORY SCIENCES.
ing for Developement, or Crystallization operating for
Permanence of form. We may add to the above state­
ment of inconveniences this;—that if M. Necker’s view
of mineralogical species be adopted, the distinction of
Species is vague and indefinite, while that of Genera is
perfectly precise and rigorous;—an aspect of the system
entirely at variance with other parts of Natural History;
for in all these the Species is a more definite group than
the Genus.
This result follows, as has already been said, from
M. Necker’s wish to have individuals marked by ex­
ternal form. If, instead of this, we are contented to
take for an individual that portion of a mass, of whatever
form, which is connected by the continuous influence of
the same crystalline forces, by whatever incidents these
forces may be manifested, (as cleavage, physical and
optical properties, and the like,) our mode of proceeding
avoids all the above inconveniences, applies alike to the
most perfect and most imperfect specimens, and gives
a result agreeable to the general analogy of natural his­
tory, and the rules of its methods'*.
I now quit the subject of mere Resemblance, and
proceed to treat of that natural affinity which Natural
Systems of Classification for organic bodies must in­
volve.
* I will not again enter into the subject of Nomenclature; but
I may remark that M. Necker has adopted (i. 415) the Nomenclature
of Boudant, latinizing the names, and thus converting each into a single
word. He has also introduced, besides the names of Genera, names of
Families taken from the h/pical Genus. Thus the Family of Carbo
nidiens contains thu following genera : Calcispathum, Magncsispathum,
Dotowispathum, Fcrrispathum, &c., Malachito, Aztiria, Gat/lusacia.
Digitized by Google
IDKA OF NATURAL AFFINITY. 5 3 5
C h a p t e r IV.
OF THE IDEA OF NATURAL AFFINITY.
1. In the Second Chapter of this Book it was
shown that although the Classificatory Sciences proceed
ostensibly upon the Idea of Resemblance as their main
foundation, they necessarily take for granted in the course
of their progress a further Idea of Natural Affinity.
This appeared* by a general consideration of the nature
of Science, by the recognition of natural species and
genera, even in Artificial Systems of Classification+ ,and
by the attempts of botanists to form a Natural System.
It further appeared that among the processes by which
endeavours have been made to frame a Natural System,
some, as the method of Blind Trial and the method or
General Comparison, have been altogether unsuccessful
being founded only upon a collection of resemblances,
casual in the one case and arbitrary in the other. In
neither of these processes is there employed any general
principle by which we may be definitely directed as to
what resemblances we should employ, or by which the
result at which we arrive may be verified and confirmed.
Our object in the present chapter is to show that the
Idea of Natural Affinity supplies us with a principle
which may answer such purposes.
I shall first consider the Idea of Affinity as exempli­
fied in organized beings. In doing this, we may appear
to take for granted Ideas which have not yet come under
our discussion, as the Ideas of Organization, and Vital
Function; but it will be found that the principle to which
we are led is independent of these additional Ideas.
2. We have already seen that the attempts to dis­
cover the divisions which result from this Natural
Affinity have led to the consideration of the Snbordina-
* Art, 5. + Art. 7*
Digitized by Googk
tionof Characters. It is easy to see that some organs
are more essential than others to the existence of an
organized being; the organs of nutrition, for example,
more essential than those of locomotion. But at the
same time it is clear that any arbitrary assumption of a
certain scale of relative values of different kinds of cha­
racters will lead only to an Artificial System. This will
happen, ifj for example, we begin by declaring the nutri­
tive to be superior in importance to the reproductive
functions. It is clear that this relation of importance
of organs and functions must be collected by the study
of the organized beings; and cannot be determined d
priori, without depriving us of all right to expect a
general accordance between our system and the arrange­
ment of nature. We see, therefore, that our notion of
Natural Affinity involves in it this consequence;—that
it is not to be made out by an arbitrary subordination
of characters.
3. The functions and actions of living things which
we separate from each other in our consideration, cannot
be severed in nature. Each function is essential; Life
implies a collection of movements, and ceases when any
of these movements is stopped. A change in the or­
ganization subservient to one set of functions may lead
necessarily to a change in the organization belonging to
others. We can often see this necessary connexion; and
from a comparison of the forms of organized beings,—
from the way in which their structure changes in pass­
ing from one class to another, we are led to the convic­
tion that there is some general principle which connects
and graduates all such changes. When the circulatory
system changes, the nervous system changes also: when
the mode of locomotion changes, the respiration is also
modified.
4. These corresponding changes may be considered
536 PHILOSOPHY OF THE CLASSIFICATORY SCIENCES.
Digitized by Googk
IDEA OF NATURAL AFFINITY. 537
as ways in which the living thing it fitted to its mode
of life; as marks of adaptation to a purpose; or, as it
has been otherwise expressed, as results of the condi­
tions of existence. But at the present moment, we put
forward these correspondencies in a different light. We
adduce them as illustrations of what we mean by Affinity,
and what we consider as the tendency of a Natural
Classification. It has sometimes been asserted that
if we were to classify any of the departments of or­
ganized nature by means of one function, and then
by means of another, the two classifications, if each
strictly consistent with itself would be consistent with
each other. Such an assertion is perhaps more than
we are entitled to make with confidence ; but it shows
very well what is meant by Affinity. The disposition to
believe such a general identity of all partial natural clas­
sifications, shows how readily we fix upon the notion of
Affinity, as a general result of the causes which deter­
mine the forms of living things. When these causes or
principles, of whatever nature they are conceived to be,
vary so as to modify one part of the organization of the
being, they also modify another: and thus the groups
which exhibit this variation of the fundamental princi­
ples of form, are the same, whether the manifestation of
the change be sought in one part or in another of the
organized structure. The groups thus formed are re­
lated by Affinity; and in proportion as we find the
evidence of more functions and more organs to the pro­
priety of our groups, we are more and more satisfied
that they are Natural Classes. It appears, then, that
our Idea of Affinity involves the conviction of the coin­
cidence of natural arrangements formed on different
functions; and this, rather than the principle of the sub­
ordination of some characters to others, is the true
ground of the natural method of Classification.
Digitized by Google
5. For example, Cuvier, after speaking of the Sub­
ordination of Characters as the guide which he intends
to follow in his arrangement of animals, interprets this
principle in such a manner* as to make it agree nearly
with the one just stated. “ In pursuance of what has
been said on methods in general, we now require to
know what characters in animals are the most influen­
tial, and therefore those which must be made the grounds
of the primary divisions.” “These,” he says, “ it is clear
must be those which are taken from the animal func­
tions;—sensation and motion:”—But how does he con­
firm this? Not by showing that the animal functions
are indepeudent of, or predominant over, the vegetative,
but by observing that they follow the same gradations.
“ Observation,” he continues, “ confirms this view, by
showing that the degrees of developement and compli­
cation of the animal functions agree with those of the
vegetative. The heart and the organs of the circulation
are a sort of center for the vegetative functions, as the
brain and the trunk of the nervous system are for the
animal functions. Now we see these two systems de­
scend in the scale, and disappear the one with the other.
Iu the lowest animals, when there are no longer any
distinct nerves, there are also no longer distinct fibres,
and the organs of digestion are simply hollowed out in
the homogeneous mass of the body. The muscular
system disappears even before the nervous, in insects;
but in general the distribution of the medullary masses
corresponds to that of the muscular instruments; a spi­
nal cord, on which knots or ganglions represent so many
brains, corresponds to a body divided into numerous
rings and supported on pairs of members placed at dif­
ferent points of the length, and so on.
“ This correspondence of the general forms which
* Rcgnc Animal, p . 55.
538 PHILOSOPHY OF THE CLASSIFICATORY SCIENCES.
Digitized by Googk
IDEA OF NATURAL AFFINITY. 5 3 9
result from the arrangement of the motive organs, from
the distribution of the nervous masses, and from the
energy of the circulatory system, must therefore form
the ground of the first great sections by which we divide
the animal kingdom.”
6. Decandolle takes the same view. There must be,
he says, anequilibrium of the different functions*.
And he exemplifies this by the case of the distinction of
monocotyledonous and dicotyledonous plants, which
being at first established by means of the organs of
reproduction, was afterwards found to coincide with
the distinction of endogenous and exogenous, which
depends on the process of nutrition. “ Thus,” he adds,
“the natural classes founded on one of the great func­
tions of the vegetable are necessarily the same as those
which are founded upon the other function; and I find
here a very useful criterion to ascertain whether a class
is natural: namely, in order to announce that it is so,
it must be arrived at by the two roads which vegetable
organization presents. Thus I affirm,” he says, “that
the division of monocotyledons from dicotyledons, and
the distinction of Gramineae from Cyperaceae, are real,
because in these cases, I arrive at the same result by
the reproductive and the nutritive organs; while the
distinction of monopetalous aud polypetalous, of Rho-
doraceae and Ericineae appears to me artificial, because
I can arrive at it only by the reproductive organs.”
Thus the correspondence of the indications of different
functions is the criterion of Natural Classes; and this
correspondence may be considered as one of the best
and most characteristic marks of the fundamental Idea
of Affinity. And the Maxim by which all Systems pro­
fessing to be natural must be tested is this:—that the
arrangement obtained fro m one set o f characters coin­
cides with the arrangem ent obtained from , another set.
* T Itcor. Elcm., p. 7^-
Digitized by Googk
This Idea of Affinity, as a natural connexion among
various species, of which connexion all particular resem­
blances are indications, has principally influenced the
attempts at classifying the animal kingdom. The reason
why the classification in this branch of Natural History
has been more easy and certain than that of the vege­
table world is, as Decandolle says*, that besides the
functions of nutrition and reproduction, which animals
have in common with plants, they have also in addition
the function of sensation; and thus have a new means
of verification and concordance. But we may add, as a
further reason, that the functions of animals are neces­
sarily much more obvious and intelligible to us than
those of vegetables, from their clear resemblance to the
operations which take place in our own bodies, to which
our attention has necessarily been strongly directed.
7. The question here offers itself, whether this Idea
of Natural Affinity is applicable to inorganic as well as
to organic bodies;—whether there be Natural Affinities
among Minerals. And to this we are now enabled to
reply by considering whether or .not the principle just
stated is applicable in such cases. And the conclusion
to which our principle leads us is,—that there are such
Natural Affinities among Minerals, since there are dif­
ferent sets of characters which may be taken, (and have
by different writers been taken,) as the basis of classifi­
cation. The hardness, specific gravity, colour, lustre,
crystallization, and other external characters, as they
are termed, form one body of properties according to
which minerals may be classified; as has in fact been
done by Mohs, Breithaupt, and others. The chemical
constitution of the substances, on the other liand, may
be made the principle of their arrangement, as was done
by Haiiy, and more recently, and on a different scheme,
by Berzelius. Which of these is the true and natural
* Thcor. E le m p. 80.
5 4 0 PHILOSOPHY OP THE CLASSIFICATORY SCIENCES.
Digitized by Googk
IDEA OF NATURAL AFFINITY. 541
classification? To this we answer, that of these
arrangements is true and natural, then, and then only,
when it coincides with the other. An arrangement by
external characters which gives us classes possessing a
common chemical character;—a chemical order which
brings together like and separates unlike minerals;—
such classifications have the evidence of truth in their
agreement with one another. Every classification of
minerals which does not aim at and tend to such a
result, is so far merely arbitrary; and cannot be sub­
servient to the expression of general chemical and mine-
ralogical truths, which is the proper purpose of such a
classification.
8. In the History of Mineralogy I have related the
advances which have been made among mineralogists
and chemists in modern times towards a System possess­
ing this character of truth. I have there described
the mixed systems of Werner and Haiiy;—the attempt
made by Mohs to form a pure Natural History system;
—the first and second attempt of Berzelius to form a
pure chemical system ; and the failure of both these
attempts. But the distinct separation of the two ele­
ments of which science requires the coincidence threw a
very useful light upon the subject; and the succeeding
mixed systems, such as that of Naumann, approached
much nearer to the true conditions of the problem than
any of the preceding ones had done. Thus, as I have
stated, several of Naumann’s groups have both a com­
mon chemical character and great external resemblances.
Such are his A
n
h
yd
ro
u
sU
n
in
eta
llicHaloids—his Anhy­
drous Metallic Haloids—Hydrous Metallic Haloids—
Oxides of metals—Pyrites—Glances—Blendes. The
existence of such groups shows that we may hope ulti­
mately to obtain a classification of minerals which shall
be both chemically significant and agreeable to the
Digitized by Google
methods of Natural History: although when we con­
sider how very imperfect as yet our knowledge of the
chemical composition of minerals is, we can hardly flat­
ter ourselves that we shall arrive at such a result very
soon.
We have thus seen that in Mineralogy, as well as in
the sciences which treat of organized bodies, we may
apply the Idea of Natural Affinity; of which the funda­
mental maxim is, that arrangements from dif­
ferent sets of characters must coincide.
Since the notion of Affinity is thus applicable to
inorganic as well as to organic bodies, it is plain that it
is not a mere modification of the Idea of Organization
or Function, although it may in some of its aspects
appear to approach near to these other Ideas. But
these Ideas, or others which are the foundation of them,
necessarily enter in a very prominent and fundamental
manner into all the other parts of Natural History. To
the consideration of these, therefore, we shall now
proceed.
5 4 2 PHILOSOPHY OF THE CLASSIFICATORY SCIENCES.
Digitized by Googk
BOOK IX.
TH E PH ILO SO PH Y OF BIOLOGY.
C h a p t e r I.
ANALOGY OF BIOLOGY W ITH O TH ER SCIENCES.
1. I n the History of the Sciences, after treating of
the Sciences of Classification, we proceeded to what are
there termed the Organical Sciences, including in this
term Physiology and Comparative Anatomy. A peculiar
feature in this group of sciences is that they involve the
notion of living things. The notion of Life, however
vague and obscure it may be in men’s minds, is appre­
hended as a peculiar Idea, not resolvable into any other
Ideas, such, for instance, as Matter and Motion. The
separation between living creatures and inert matter,
between organized and unorganized beings, is conceived
as a positive and insurmountable barrier. The two
classes of objects are considered as of a distinct kind,
produced and preserved by different forces. Whether
the Idea of Life is really thus original and fundamental,
and whether, if so, it be one Idea only, or involve
several, it must be the province of true philosophy to
determine. What we shall here offer may be considered
as an attempt to contribute something to the determina­
tion of these questions; but we shall perhaps be able
to make it appear that science is at present only in the
course of its progress towards a complete solution of
such problems.
Digitized by Google
544 PHILOSOPHY OF BIOLOGY.
Since the main feature of those sciences of which
we have now to examine the philosophy is, that they
involve the Idea of Life, it would be desirable to have
them designated by a name expressive of that circum­
stance. The word P
h
y
s
i
o
l
o
g
y,by which they have m
commonly been described, means the Science of Nature;
and though it would be easy to explain, by reference to
history, the train of thought by which the word was
latterly restricted to Living Nature, it is plain that the
name is, etymologically speaking, loose and improper.
The term Biology, which means exactly what we wish
to express, the Science of Life, has often been used, and
has of late become not uncommon among good writers.
I shall therefore venture to employ it, in most cases,
rather than the word Physiology.
2. As I have already intimated, one main inquiry
belonging to the Philosophy of Biology, is concerning the
Fundamental Idea or Ideas which the science involves.
If we look back at the course and the results of our dis­
quisitions respecting other sciences in this work, and
assume, as we may philosophically do, that there will be
some general analogy between those sciences and this,
in their developement and progress, we shall be enabled
to anticipate in some measure the nature of the view
which we shall now have to take. We have seen that
in other subjects the Fundamental Ideas on which sci­
ence depended, and the Conceptions derived from these,
were at first vague, obscure, and confused;—that by
gradual steps, by a constant union of thought and obser­
vation, these conceptions become more and more clear,
more and more definite;—and that when they approached
complete distinctness and precision, there were made
great positive discoveries into which these conceptions
entered, and thus the new precision of thought was
fixed and perpetuated in some conspicuous and lasting
Digitized by Google
truths. Thus we have seen how the first confused me­
chanical conceptions (Force, and the like,) were, from
time to time, growing clearer, down to the epoch of
Newton;— how true conceptions of Genera and of wider
classes, gradually unfolded themselves among the botan­
ists of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries;—how
the idea of Substance became steady enough to govern
the theories of chemists only at the epoch of Lavoisier;—
how the Idea of Polarity, although often used by phy­
sicists and chemists, is even now somewhat vague and
indistinct in the minds of the greater part of speculators.
In like manner we may expect to find that the Idea of
Life, if indeed that be the governing Idea of the Science
which treats of Living Things, will be found to have
been gradually approaching towards a distinct and defi­
nite form among the physiologists of all ages up to the
present day. And if this be the case, it may not be
considered superfluous, with reference to so interesting
a subject, if we employ some space in tracing historically
the steps of this progress;—the changes by which the
originally loose notion of Life, or of Vital Powers,
became more nearly an Idea suited to the purposes of
science.
3. But we may safely carry this analogy between
Biology and other sciences somewhat further. We have
seen, in other sciences, that while men in their specula­
tions were thus tending towards a certain peculiar Idea,
but before they as yet saw clearly that it was peculiar
and independent, they naturally and inevitably clothed
their speculations in conceptions borrowed from some
other extraneous idea. And the unsatisfactoriness of
all such attempts, and the necessary consequence of this,
a constant alteration and succession of such inappro­
priate hypotheses, were indications and aids of the pro­
gress which was going on towards a more genuine form
VOL. i. w . p. N N
ANALOGY OF BIOLOGY WITH OTHER SCIENCES. 545
Digitized by Google
5 4 0 PHILOSOPHY OF BIOLOGY.
of the science. For instance, we have seen that in che­
mistry, so long as men refused to recognize a peculiar
and distinct kind of power in the Affinity which binds
together the elements of bodies, they framed to them­
selves a series of hypotheses, each constructed according
to the prevalent ideas of the time, by which they tried
to represent the relation of the compound to the ingre­
dients:—first, supposing that the elements bestowed
upon the whole qualities resembling their own:—then
giving up this supposition, and imagining that the pro­
perties of the body depended upon the shape of the
component particles;—then, as their view expanded,
assuming that it was not the shape, but the mechanical
farces of the particles which gave the body its attributes;
—and finally acquiescing in, or rather reluctantly admit­
ting, the idea of Affinity, conceived as a peculiar power,
different not only from material contact, but from any
mechanical or dynamical attraction.
Now we caunot but think it very natural, if we find
that the history of Biology offers a series of occurrences
of the same nature. The notions of Life in general,
or of any Vital Functions or Vital Forces in particular,
are obviously very loose and vague as they exist in the
minds of most men. The discrepancies and contro­
versies respecting the definitions of all such terms, which
are found in all works on physiology, afford us abundant
evidence that these notions are not, at least not gene­
rally, apprehended with complete clearness and steadi­
ness. We shall therefore find approaches and advances,
intermediate steps, gradually leading up to the greatest
degree of distinctness which has yet been attained. And
in those stages of imperfect apprehension in which the
notions of Life and of Vital Powers are still too loose
and unformed to be applied independently, we may
expect to find them supported and embodied by means
Digitized by Googk
of hypotheses borrowed from other subjects, and thus,
made so distinct and substantial as to supply at least a
temporary possibility of scientific reasoning upon the
laws of life.
4. For example, if we suppose that men begin to
speculate upon the properties of living things, not
acknowledging a peculiar Vital Power, but making use
successively of the knowledge supplied by the study of
other subjects, we may easily imagine a series of hypo­
theses along which they would pass.
They would probably, first, in this as in other sciences,
have their thoughts occupied by vague and mystical no­
tions in which material and spiritual agency, natural and
supernatural events, were mixed together without discri­
mination, and without any clear notion at all. But as
they acquired a more genuine perception of the nature
of knowledge, they would naturally try to explain vital
motions and processes by means of such forces as they
had learnt the existence of from other sciences. They
might first have a mechanical hypothesis, in which the
mechanical forces of the solids and fluids which compose
organized bodies should be referred to, as the most im­
portant influences in the process of life. They might
then attend to the actions which the fluids exercise in
virtue of their affinity, and might thus form a chemical
theory. When they had proved the insufficience of these
hypotheses, borrowed from the powers which matter
exhibits in other cases, they might think themselves
authorized to assume some peculiar power or agency,
still material, and thus they would have the hypothesis
of a vital fluid. And if they were driven to reject this,
they might think that there was no resource but to
assume an immaterial principle of life, and thus they
would arrive at the doctrine of an animal soul.
Now, through the cycle of hypotheses which we have
NN2
ANALOGY OF BIOLOGY WITH OTHER SCIENCES. 547
Digitized by Googk
548 PHILOSOPHY OF BIOLOGY.
thus supposed, physiology has actually passed. The con­
clusions to which the most philosophical minds have been
led by a survey of this progress is, that by the failure of
all these theories, men have exhausted this path of in­
quiry, and shown that scientific truth is to be sought in
some other manner. But before I proceed further to
illustrate this result, it will be proper, as I have already
stated, to exhibit historically the various hypotheses
which I have described. In doing this I shall princi­
pally follow the History of Medicine of Sprengel. It
is only by taking for my guide a physiologist of acknow­
ledged science and judgment, that I can hope, on such
a subject, to avoid errours of detail. I proceed now
to give in succession an account of the Mystical, the
Iatrocheraical, the Iatromathematical, and the Vital­
Fluid Schools ; and finally of the Psychical School, who
hold the Vital Powers to be derived from the Soul
{Psyché).
Chapter II.
SUCCESSIVE BIOLOGICAL HYPOTHESES.
Sect. I.— The Mystical School.
In order to abbreviate as much as can conveniently
be done the historical view which I have now to take, I
shall altogether pass over the physiological speculations
of the ancients, and begin my survey with the general
revival of science in modern times.
We need not dwell long on the fantastical and unsub­
stantial doctrines concerning physiology which prevailed
in the sixteenth century, and which flowed in a great
measure from the fertile but ill-regulated imaginations of
the cultivators of Alchemy and Magic. One of the pro-
Digitized by Googk
minent doctors of this school is the celebrated Paracelsus,
whose doctrines contained a combination of biblical in­
terpretations, visionary religious notions, fanciful ana­
logies, and bold experiments in practical medicine. The
opinion of a close but mystical resemblance of parts be­
tween the universe and the human body,—the Macrocosm
and the Microcosm,—as these two things, thus compared,
were termed, had probably come down from the Neopla-
tonists; it was adopted by the Paracelsists*, and con­
nected with various astrological dreams and cabbalistic
riddles. A succession of later Paracelsistsf, Rosicrucians,
and other fanatics of the same kind, continued iuto the
seventeenth century. Upon their notions was founded
the pretension of curing wounds by a sympathetic powder,
which Sir Kenelra Digby, among others, asserted; while
animal magnetism, and the transfer of diseases from one
person to another were maintained by others of this
school. They held, too, the doctrines of astral bodies
corresponding to each terrestrial body; and of the sig­
natures of plants, that is, certain features in their exter­
nal form by which their virtues might be known. How
little advantage or progress real physiology could derive
from speculations of this kind may be seen from this,
that their tendency was to obliterate the distinction
between living and lifeless things: according to Para­
celsus, all things are alive, eat, drink, and excrete; even
minerals and fluids $. According to him and his school,
besides material and immaterial beings, there are ele­
mentary Spirits which hold an intermediate place,
Sylvans, Nymphs, Gnomes, Salamanders, &c. by whose
agency various processes of enchantment may be achiev­
ed, and things apparently supernatural explained. Thus
this spiritualist scheme dealt with a world of its own by
* Spr., h i . 456. + lb., iv. 270. i lb., iv. 276.
§ 76., in. 458. Parac. De Vila Return Naturniium, p. 889.
SUCCESSIVE BIOLOGICAL HYPOTHESES. 5 4 9
Digitized by Google
5 5 0 PHILOSOPHY OF BIOLOGY.
means of fanciful inventions and mystical visions, instead
of making any step in the study of nature.
Perhaps, however, one of the most fantastical of the
inventions of Paracelsus may be considered as indicating
a perception of a peculiar character in the vital powers.
According to him, the business of digestion is performed
by a certain demon whom he calls Archeem, who has his
abode in the stomach, and who, by means of his alche­
mical processes, separates the nutritive from the harm­
ful part of our food, and makes it capable of assimila­
tion *. This fanciful notion was afterwards adopted and
expanded by Van Helmontf. According to him the
stomach and spleen are both under the direction of this
Master-spirit, and these two organs form a sort of Duum­
virate in the body.
But though we may see in such writers occasional
gleams of physiological thought, the absence of definite
physical relations in the speculations thus promulgated
was necessarily intolerable to men of sound understand­
ing and scientific tendencies. Such men naturally took
hold of that part of the phenomena of life which could
be most distinctly conceived, and which could be appa­
rently explained by means of the sciences then culti­
vated; and this was the part which appeared to be
reducible to chemical conceptions and doctrines. It will
readily be supposed that the processes of chemistry
have a considerable bearing upon physiological pro­
cesses, and might, till their range was limited by a
sound investigation, be supposed to have still more than
they really had; and thus a Physiology was formed
which depended mainly upon Chemistry, and the school
which held this doctrine has been called the Iatrochemi-
cal School.
* Spr., in . 460. t IV. 302.
Digitized by Google
SUCCESSIVE BIOLOGICAL HYPOTHESES. 551
Sect. II.— The IntrochSchool.
That all physical properties, and therefore chemical
relations, have a material influence on physiological
results, was already recognized, though dimly, in the
Galenic doctrine of the “four elementary qualities.”
But at the time of Paracelsus, chemical action was more
distinctly than before separated from other kinds of
physical action; and therefore a physiological doctrine,
founded upon chemistry, and freed from the extrava­
gance and mysticism of the Paracelsists, was a very
promising path of speculation. Andrew Libavius* of
Halle, in Saxony, Physician and Teacher in the Gym­
nasium at Koberg, is pointed out by Sprengel as the
person who began to cultivate chemistry, as distinct from
the theosophic fantasies of his predecessors; and Angelus
Sala of Viennat, as his successor. The latter has the
laudable distinction of having rejected the prevalent
conceits about potable gold, a universal medicine, and
the likej. In Germany already at the beginning of the
seventeenth century a peculiar chair of Chymiatria was
already created at Marpurg: and many in various places
pursued the same studies, till, in the middle of the seven­
teenth century, we come to Lemery§, the principal
reformer of pharmaceutical chemistry. But we are not
here so much concerned with the practical as with the
theoretical parts of Iatrochemistry; and hence we pass
on to Sylvius || and his system.
The opinion that chemistry had an important bearing
upon physiology did not, however, begin with Sylvius.
Paracelsus, among his extravagant absurdities, did some
service to medicine by drawing attention to this important
truth. He usedH chemical principles for the, explanation
* Spr., in . 550. + If>., iv. 281. i lb., iv. 283.
§ lb., iv. 291. || lb., iv. .336. IT in. 472.
Digitized by Google
5 5 '¿ PHILOSOPHY OF BIOLOGY.
of particular diseases; most or all diseases according to
him, arise from the effervescence of salts, from the com­
bustion of sulphur, or from the coagulation of mercury.
His medicines were chemical preparations; and it was*
an undeniable advantage of the Paracelsian doctrine that
chemistry thus became indispensable to the physician.
We still retain a remnant of the chemical nomenclature
of Paracelsus in the term tartar, denoting the stony con­
cretion which forms on the teeth f. According to him
there is a certain substance, the basis of all diseases which
arise from a thickening of the juices and a collection of
earthy matter; and this substance he calls Tartarus,
because it “ burns like the fire of hell.” Helmont, the
successor of Paracelsus in many absurdities, also followed
him in the attempt to give a chemical account, however
loose and wild, of the functions of the human body; and
is by Sprengel considered, with all his extravagancies, as
a meritorious and important discoverer. The notion of
the fermentation of fluidsJ, and of the aerial product
thence resulting, to which he gave the name of Gas, forms
an important part of his doctrines; and of the six diges­
tions which he assumes, the first prepares an acid, which
is neutralized by the gall when it reaches the duodenum,
and this constitutes the second digestion.
I have already, in the History of Chemistry §, stated,
that the doctrine of the opposition of acid and alkali, the
great step which theoretical chemistry owes to Sylvius,
was first brought into view as a physiological teuet,
although we had then to trace its consequences in an­
other science. The explanation of all the functions of the
animal system, both healthy and morbid, by means of
this and other chemical doctrines, and the prescription
of methods, of cure founded upon such explanations,
* Spr., in. 482. + hi. 475.
t Vol* v., 315. § Hist. Ind. Sci.y B. xiii. c. 2.
Digitized by Google
SUCCESSIVE BIOLOGICAL HYPOTHESES. 553
form the scheme of the iatrochemical school; a school
which almost engrossed the favour of European phy­
sicians during the greater part of the seventeenth cen­
tury.
Sylvius taught medicine at Leyden, from the year
1658, with so much success, that Boerhaave alone sur­
passed him *. His notions, although he piqued himself
on their originality, were manifestly suggested in no
small degree (as all such supposed novelties are) by the
speculations of his predecessors, and the spirit of the
times. Like Helmontf, he considers digestion as con­
sisting in a fermentation; but he states it more definitely
as the effervescence of an acid, supplied by the saliva
and the pancreatic juice, with the alkali of the gall. By
various other hypothetical processes, all of a chemical
nature, the blood becomes a collection of various juices,
which are the subjects of the speculations of the iatro-
chemists, to the entire neglect of the solid parts of
the body. Diseases were accounted for by a supposed
prevalence of one or the other of the acrid principles,
the acid or the alkaline: and SylviusJ was bold enough
to found upon these hypotheses practical methods of
cure, which were in the highest degree mischievous.
The Sylvian doctrine was often combined with some
of the notions of the Cartesian system of philosophy;
but this mixture I shall not notice, since my present
object is to trace the history of a mere chemical physio­
logy as one of the unsuccessful attempts at a philosophy
of life. With various modifications, this doctrine was
diffused over Europe. It gave rise to several contro­
versies, which turned upon the questions of the novelty
of the doctrine, and the use of chemical remedies to
which it pointed, as well as upon its theoretical truth.
We need not dwell, long upon these controversies, al­
* Spr., iv. 336. t ]h.y338. \ l b iv. 345.
Digitized by Googk
5 5 4 PHILOSOPHY OF BIOLOGY.
though they were carried on with no small vehemence
in their time. Thus the school of Paris opposed all
innovation, remained true to the Galenic dogmatism, and
declared itself earnestly against all combination of che­
mistry with medicine; and even against the chemical
preparation of medicaments. Guy Patin, a celebrated
and learned professor of that day, declares* that the
chemists are no better than forgers, and ought to be
punished as such. The use of antimonial medicines was
a main point of dispute between the iatrochemists and
their opponents; Patin maintained that more men had
been destroyed by antimony than by the thirty years’ war
of Germany; and endeavoured to substantiate this asser­
tion by collecting all such cases in his Martyrologium
Antimonii. It must have been a severe blow to Patin
whenf, in 1666, the Doctors of the Faculty of Paris,
assembled by command of the parliament, declared, by a
majority of ninety-two voices, that the use of antimonial
medicines was allowable and laudable, and when all
attempts to set aside this decision failed.
Florentius Schuyl of Leyden sought to recommend
the iatrocheraical doctrines, by maintaining that they
were to be found in the Hippocratic writings; nor was
it difficult to give a chemical interpretation of the
humoral pathology of the ancients. The Italian J phy­
sicians also, for the most part, took this line, and
attempted to show the agreement of the principles of
the ancient school of medicine with the new chemical
notions. This, indeed, is the usual manner in which the
diffusion of new theoretical ideas becomes universal.
The progress of the chemical school of medicine in
England § requires our more especial notice. Willis was
the most celebrated champion of this sect. He assumed,
but with modifications of his own, the three Paracelsian
• Spr., 349 t l b ., iv. 350. l b ., 3HR. ' $ Jh., 353.
Digitized by Googk
SUCCESSIVE BIOLOGICAL HYPOTHESES. 0 3 0
principles, Salt, Sulphur, and Mercury; considered diges­
tion as the effect of an acid, and explained other parts of
the animal economy by distillation, fermentation, and the
like. All diseases arise from the want of the requisite
ferment; and the physician, he says*, may be compared to
a vintner, since both the one and the other have to take t
care that the necessary fermentations go on, that no
foreign matter mixes itself with the wine of life, to inter­
rupt or derange those operations. In the middle of the
seventeenth century, medicine had reached a point in
which the life of the animal body was considered as
merely a chemical process; the wish to explain every­
thing on known principles left no recognized difference
between organized and unorganized bodies, and diseases
were treated according to this delusive notion. The
condition of chemistry itself during this period, though
not one of brilliant progress, was sufficiently stable and
flourishing to give a plausibility to any speculation which
was founded on chemical principles; and the real influ­
ence of these principles in the animal frame could not be
denied.
The iatrochemists were at first resisted, as we have
seen, by the adherents of the ancient schools; they were
attacked on various grounds, and finally deposed from
their ascendency by another sect, which we have to
speak of, as the iatromathematical, or mechanical school.
This sect was no less unsatisfactory and erroneous in its
positive doctrines than the chemists had been; for the
animal firame is no more a mere machine than a mere
laboratory: but it promoted the cause of truth, by detect­
ing and exposing the insufficient explanations and un­
proved assertions of the reigning theory.
Boyle was one of the persons who first raised doubts
against the current chemical doctrines of his time, as we
* Spr., 354.
Digitized by Google
556 PHILOSOPHY OF BIOLOGY.
have elsewhere noted; but his objections had no pe­
culiar physiological import. Hermann Corning*, the
most learned physician of his time, a contemporary
with Sylvius, took a view more pertinent to our present
object; for he not only rejected the alchemical and
hermetical medicines, but taught expressly that che­
mistry, in its then existing condition, was better fitted
to be of use in the practice of pharmacy, than in the
theories of physiology and pathology. He made the
important assertion, also, that chemical principles do
not pre-exist assuch in the animal body; and that
are higher powers which operate in the organic world,
and w’hich do not depend on the form and mixture of
matter.
Attempts were made to prove the acid and alkaline
nature of the fluids of the human body by means of
experiments, as by John Viridet of Genevaf, and by
Raimond VieussensJ, the latter of whom maintained
that he had extracted an acid from the blood, and de­
tected a ferment in the stomach. In opposition to him,
Hecquet, a disciple of the iatromathematical school,
endeavoured to prove that digestion was performed, not
by means of fermentation, but by trituration. Hecquet’s
own opinions cannot be defended; but his objections to
the chemical doctrines, and his assertion of the difference
of chemical and organical processes, are evidences of
just thought $.
The most important opponents of the iatrochemical
school were Pitcairn in England, Bohn and Hoffman in
Germany, and Boerhaave in Holland. These eminent
physicians, about the end of the seventeenth century,
argued on the same grounds of observation, that diges­
tion is not fermentation, and that the Sylvian accounts
* Spr., iv. 361. + Hi., iv. 329.
Í l
b
.
,3
50, (1715 ) § M., 401.
Digitized by Googk
of the origin of diseases by means of acid and alkali are
false. The arguments and authority of these and other
persons finally gained an ascendancy in the medical
world, and soon after this period we may consider the
reign of the chemical school of physiology as past. In
fact, the attempts to prove its assertions experimentally
were of the feeblest kind, and it had no solid basis on
which it could rest, so as to resist the shock of the next
hypothesis which the progress of the physical sciences
might impel against it. We may, therefore, now con­
sider the opinion of the mere chemical nature of the
vital processes as disproved, and we proceed next to
notice the history of another unsuccessful essay to reduce
vital actions to known actions of another kind.
Sect. III.— Thelatromathematical School.
In the first Section of this chapter, we enumerated
the biological hypotheses which at first present them­
selves, as the mystical, the mechanical, the chemical.
We might have expected that they should occur to
men's minds in the order thus stated: and in fact they
did so; for the physiology of the ancient materialists,
as Democritus and Lucretius, is mechanical so far as it
is at all distinct in its views, and thus the mechanical
preceded the chemical doctrine. But in modern times,
the fluid or chemical physiology was developed before
the solid or mechanical: of which the reason appears to
have been this;—that Mechanics and Chemistry began
to assume a scientific character about the same time;
and that of the two, Chemistry not only appeared at
first sight more applicable to the functions of the body,
because all the more rapid changes appear to be con­
nected with modifications of the fluids of the animal
system, but also, by its wider range of facts and more
indefinite principles, afforded a better temporary refuge
SUCCESSIVE BIOLOGICAL HYPOTHESES. 557
Digitized by Google
558 PHILOSOPHY OF BIOLOGY.
for the mind when perplexed by the difficulties and mys­
teries which spring out of the speculations concerning
life. But if Chemistry was thus at first a more inviting
field for the physiologist, Mechanics soon became more
attractive in virtue of the splendid results obtained by
the schools of Galileo and Newton. And when the
insufficiency of chemical physiology was discovered by
trial, as we have seen it was, the hope naturally arose,
that the mechanical principles which had explained so
many of the phenomena of the external universe might
also be found applicable to the smaller world of material
life;—that the mici'ocosm as well as the macrocosm
might have its mechanical principles. From this hope
sprung the Iatromathematical School, or school of Me­
chanical Physiologists.
We may, however, divide this school into two parts,
the Italian, and the Cartesio-Newtonian sect. The
former employed themselves in calculating and analyz­
ing a number of the properties of the animal frame
which are undoubtedly mechanical; the latter, somewhat
intoxicated by the supposed triumphs of the corpuscular
philosophy, endeavoured to extend these to physiology,
and for this purpose introduced into the subject many
arbitrary and baseless hypotheses. I will very briefly
mention some of the writers of both these sects.
The main points to which the Italian or genuine
Mechanical Physiologists attended, were the application
of mechanical calculations to the force of the muscles,
and of hydraulical reasonings to the motion of the fluids
of the animal system. The success with which Galileo
and his disciples had pursued these branches of mecha­
nical philosophy, and the ascendency which they had
obtained, first in Italy, and then in other lands, made
such speculations highly interesting. Borelli may be
considered as the first great name in his line, and his
Digitized by Google
SUCCESSIVE BIOLOGICAL HYPOTHESES. 559
book, l)e Motu A
n
im
a
liu
m
,(
O
p
u
s Posthuvmm, Roma1
,
1680,) is even now a very instructive treatise on the force
and action of the bones and muscles. This, certainly
one of the most valuable portions of mechanical phy­
siology, has not even yet been so fully developed as it
deserves, although John Bernoulli* and his son Daniel+
applied to it the resources of analysis, and Pemberton
in England, pursued the same subject. Other of these
mechanico-physiological problems consisted in referring
the pressure of the blood and of the breath to hydro­
statical principles. In this manner Borelli was led to
assert that the muscles of the heart exert a force of
180,000 pounds But a little later, Keill reduced this
force to a few ounces 1
1
. Keill and others attempted to
determine, on similar principles, the velocity of the
blood; we need not notice the controversies which thus
arose, since there is not involved in them any peculiar
physiological principle.
The peculiar character of the iatromathematical
school, as an attempt at physiological theory, is more
manifest in its other section, which we have called the
Cartesio-Newtonian. The Cartesian system pretended
to account for the appearances and changes of bodies by
means of the size, figure, and motion of their minute
particles. And though this system in its progress
towards the intellectual empire of Europe was suddenly
overturned by the rise of the Newtonian philosophy,
these corpuscular doctrines rather gained than lost by
the revolution; for the Newtonian philosophy enlarged
the powers of the corpuscular hypothesis, by adding the
effects of the attractive and repulsive forces of particles
to those of their form and motion. By this means,
although Newton’s discoyeries did not in fact augment
• De MotuMusculorum. + Act. Acad. Petrop., i . 170.
t Course o f Physiology, 1773. § Spr., iv. 110. H76., 443.
Digitized by Google
5 6 0 PHILOSOPHY OF BIOLOGY.
the probability of the corpuscular hypothesis, they so far
increased its plausibility, that this hypothesis found
favour both with Newton himself and his contempora­
ries, no less than it had done with the Cartesians.
The attempt to apply this corpuscular hypothesis to
physiology was made by Des Cartes himself. The gene­
ral character of such speculations may easily be guessed*.
The secretions are effected by the organs operating after
the manner of sieves. Round particles pass through
cylindrical tubes, pyramidal ones through triangular
pores, cubical particles through square apertures, and
thus different kinds of matter are separated. Similar
speculations were pursued by other mathematicians:
the various diameter of the vessels f, their curvatures,
folds, and angles, were made subjects of calculation.
Bellini, Donzellini, Gulielmini, in Italy; Perrault, Dodart,
in France; Cole, Keill, Jurin, in England, were the
principal cultivators of such studies. In the earlier part
of the eighteenth century, physiological theorists con­
sidered it as almost self-evident that their science
required them to reason concerning the size and shape
of the particles of the fluids, the diameter and form of
the invisible vessels. Such was, for instance, the opinion
of Cheynej, who held that acute fevers arise from the
obstruction of the glands, which occasions a more vehe­
ment motion of the blood. Mead, the physician of the
King, and the friend of Newton, in like manner explained
the effects of poisons by hypotheses concerning the form
of their particles as we have already seen in speaking
of chemistry.
It is not necessary for us to dwell longer on this
subject, or to point out the total insufficiency of the mere
mechanical physiology. The iatrochemists had neglected
* Spr., iv. 329. ♦ J6., 432. * lb., 223.
§ Mechanical Account of Poisons. 1702.
SUCCESSIVE BIOLOGICAL HYPOTHESES. 561
the effect of the solids of the living frame; the iatro-
mathematicians attended only to these*. And even
these were considered only as canals, as cords, as levers,
as lifeless machines. These reasoners never looked for
any powers of a higher order than the cohesion, the
resistance, the gravity, the attraction, which operate in
inert matter. If the chemical school assimilated the
physician to a vintner or brewer, the mechanical physio­
logists made him an hydraulic engineer; and, in fact,
several of the iatromathematicians were at the same
time teachers of engineering and of medicine.
Several of the reasoners of this school combined che­
mical with their mechanical principles; but it would
throw no additional light upon the subject to give any
account of these, and I shall therefore go on to speak of
the next form of the attempt to explain the processes of
life.
Sect. IV.— The Vital-Fluid School.
I speak here, not of that opinion which assumes
some kind of fluid or ether as the means of communica­
tion along the nerves in particular, but of the hypothesis
that all the peculiar functions of life depend upon some
subtile ethereal substance diffused through the frame;—
not of a Nervous Fluid, but of a Vital Fluid. Again, I
distinguish this opinion from the doctrine of an imma­
terial vital power or principle, an Animal Soul, which
will be the subject of the next Section: nor is this dis­
tinction insignificant; for a material element, however
subtile, however much spiritualized, must still act every­
where according to the same laws; whereas we do not
conceive an immaterial spirit or soul to be subject to
this necessity.
The iatromatheraatical school could explain to their
• Spr., iv. 419.
VOL. I. W. P. 0 O
Digitized by Googk
562 PHILOSOPHY OF BIOLOGY.
own satisfaction how motions, once begun, were trans­
ferred and modified ; but in many organs of the living
frame there seemed to be a power of beginning motion,
which is beyond all mere mechanical action. This led
to the assumption of a Principle of a higher kind, though
still material. Such a Principle was asserted by Frede­
rick Hoffmann, who was born at Halle, in 1660*, and
became Professor of Medicine at the newly-established
University there in 1694. According to himf, the rea­
son of the greater activity of organized bodies lies in
the influence of a material substance of extreme sub-
tilty, volatility, and energy. This is, he holds, no other
than the Ether, which, diffused through all nature,
produces in plants the bud, the secretion and motion of
the juices, and is separated from the blood and lodged
in the brain of animalsJ. From this, acting through
the nerves, must be derived all the actions of the organs
in the animal frame ; for when the influence of the nerve
upon the muscle ceases, muscular motion ceases also.
The mode of operation of this vital fluid was, how­
ever, by no means steadily apprehended by Hoffmann
and his followers. Its operations are so far mecha­
nical § that all effects are reduced to motion, yet they
cannot be explained according to known mechanical
laws. At one time the effects are said to take place
according to laws of a Higher Mechanics which are still
to be discovered ||. At another time, in complete con­
tradiction of the general spirit of the system, meta­
physical conceptions are introduced: each particle of
the vital fluid is said to have a determined idea of the
whole mechanism and organism1, and according to this,
* Spr., v. 254. t 76., v. 257-
J De Differentiâ Organismi et Mechanirmi, pp. 48, 67.
§ Spr., v. 262, 3. || Hoffmann, Vol. v. p. 123.
1
1 De Diff. Organ, et Meehan., p. 81.
Digitized by Google
SUCCESSIVE BIOLOGICAL HYPOTHESES. Ô63
it forms the body and preserves it by its motion. By
means of this fluid the soul operates upon the body, and
the instincts and the passions have their source in this
material sensitive soul. This attribution of ideas to the
particles of the fluid is less unaccountable when we
recollect that something of the same kind is admitted
into Leibnitz’s system, whose Monads have also ideas.
Notwithstanding its inconsistencies, Hoffmann’s sys­
tem was received with very general favour both in
Germany and in the rest of Europe; the more so, inas­
much as it fell in very well with the philosophy both of
Leibnitz and of Newton. The Newtonians were generally
inclined to identify the Vital Fluid with the Ether, of
which their master was so strongly disposed to assume
the existence: and indeed he himself suggested this
identification.
When the discoveries made respecting Electricity in
the course of the eighteenth century had familiarized
men with the notion of a pervading subtile agent, invi­
sible, intangible, yet producing very powerful effects in
every part of nature, physiologists also caught at the
suggestion of such an agent, and tried, by borrowing or
imitating it, to aid the imperfection of their notions of
the vital powers. The Vital Principle* was imagined to
be a substance of the same kind, by some to be the same
substance, with the Electric Fluid. By its agency all
these processes in organized bodies were accounted for
which cannot be explained by mechanical or chemical
laws, as the secretion of various matters (tears, milk,
bile, &c.) from an homogeneous fluid, the blood; the
production of animal heat, digestion, and the like.
According to John Hunter, this attenuated substance
pervaded the blood itself as well as the solid organic
frame; and the changes which take place in the blood
• Prichard, On theDoctrine of a Vital , p. 12.
0 0 2
Digitized by Google
564 PHILOSOPHY OF BIOLOGY.
which has flowed out of the veins into a basin are ex­
plained by saying that it is, for a time, till this vital fluid
evaporates, truly alive.
The notion of a Vital Fluid appears also to be favour­
ably looked upon by Cuvier; although with him this
doctrine is mainly put forwards in the form of a Nervous
Fluid. Yet in the following passage he extends the
operation of such an agent to all the vital functions*-
“ We have only to suppose that all the medullary and
nervous parts produce the Nervous Agent, and that they
alone conduct it; that is, that it can only be transmitted
by them, and that it is changed or consumed by their
actions. Then everything appears simple. A detached
portion of muscle preserves for some time its irritability,
on account of the portion of nerve which always adheres
to it. The sensibility and the irritability reciprocally
exhaust each other by their exercise, because they change
or consume the same agent. All the interior motions of
digestion, secretion, excretion, participate in this ex­
haustion, or may produce it. All local excitation of the
' nerves brings thither more blood by augmenting the
irritability of the arteries, and the afflux of blood aug­
ments the real sensibility by augmenting the production
of the nervous agent. Hence the pleasures of titilla­
tions, the pains of inflammation. The particular sensa­
tions increase in the same manner and by the same
causes; and the imagination exercises, (still by means
of the nerves,) upon the internal fibres of the arteries
"or other parts, and through them on the sensations,
an action analogous to that of the will upon the volun­
tary motions. As each exterior sense is exclusively
disposed to admit the substances which it is to perceive,
so each interior organ, secretory or other, is also more
excitable by some one agent than by another: and
• Hist. Set* Nat, deptiis 1789, T. 214.
Digitized by Googk
hence arises what has been called the proper sensi­
bility or properlife of the o
r
; and the influ
specifics which, introduced into the general circulation,
affect only certain parts. In fine, if the nervous agent
cannot become sensible to us, the reason is that all
sensation requires that this agent should be altered in
some way or other; and it cannot alter itself.
“ Such is the summary idea which we may at present
form of the mutual and general working of the vital
powers in animals.”
Against the doctrine of a Vital Fluid as one uniform
material agent pervading the organic frame, an argument
has been stated which points out extremely well the
philosophical objection to such an hypothesis*. If the
Vital Principle be the same in all parts of the body, how
does it happen, it is asked, that the secretions are so
different? How do the particles in the blood, separated
from their old compounds and united into new ones,
under the same influence, give origin to all the different
fluids which are produced by the glands? The liver
secretes bile, the lacrymal gland, tears, and so on. Is the
Vital Principle different in all these organs? To assert
this, is to multiply nominal principles without limit, and
without any advance in the explanation of facts. Is the
Vital Principle the same, but its operation modified by
the structure of the organ ? We have then two unknown
causes, the Vital Principle and the Organic Structure,
to account for the effect. By such a multiplication of
hypotheses nothing is gained. We may as well say at
once, that the structure of the organ, acting by laws yet
unknown, is the cause of the peculiar secretion. It is
as easy to imagine this structure acting to produce the
whole effect, as it is to imagine it modifying the activity
of another agent. Thus the hypothesis of the Vital Fluid
* Prichard, On a Vital Principle, p. 98.
SUCCESSIVE BIOLOGICAL HYPOTHESES. 565
Digitized by Google
5 6 6 PHILOSOPHY OF BIOLOGY.
in this form explains nothing, and does not in any way
help onwards the progress of real biological knowledge.
The hypothesis of an immaterial vital principle must
now be considered.
Sect. V.— The Psychical School.
The doctrine of an Animal Soul as the principle
which makes the operations of organic different from
those of inorganic matter, is quite distinct from, and we
may say independent of, the doctrine of the soul as the
intelligent, moral, responsible part of man's nature. It
is the former doctrine alone of which we have here to
speak, and those who thus hold the existence of an
immaterial agent as the cause of the phenomena of life,
I term the Psychical School.
Such a view of the constitution of living things is
very ancient. For instance, Aristotle’s Treatise “on the
Soul” goes entirely upon the supposition that the Soul
is the cause of motion, and he arrives at the conclusion
that there are different parts in the Soul; the nutritive
or vegetative, the s
e
n
s
i
t
i
v
e,and the
But this doctrine is more instructive to us, when it
appears as the antagonist of other opinions concerning
the nature of life. In this form it comes before us as
promulgated by Stahl, whom we have already noticed as
one of the great discoverers in chemistry. Born in the
same year as Hoffmann, and appointed at his suggestion
professor at the same time in the same new university of
Halle, he soon published a rival physiological theory. In
a Letter to Lucas Schrock, the president of the Academy
of Naturalists, he describes the manner in which he was
led to form a system for himselff. Educated in the
tenets of Sylvius and Willis, according to which all dis­
eases are derived from the acidity of the fluids, Stahl,
• Arist. ii. 2. t Spr., v. 303.
Digitized by Googk
SUCCESSIVE BIOLOGICAL HYPOTHESES. 667
when a young student, often wondered how these fluids,
so liable to be polluted and corrupted, are so wonder­
fully preserved through innumerable external influences,
and seem to be far less affected by these than by age,
constitution, passion. No material cause could, he
thought, produce such effects. No attention to mechan­
ism or chemistry alone could teach us the true nature
and laws of organization.
So far as Stahl recognized the influence, in living
bodies, of something beyond the range of mechanics and
chemistry, there can be no doubt of the sound philosophy
of his views; but when he proceeds to found a positive
system of physiology, his tenets become more precarious.
The basis of his theory is this *: the body has, as body,
no power to move itself, and must always be put in
motion by immaterial substances. All motion is a spi­
ritual actf. The source of all activity in the organic
body, from which its preservation, the permanency of its
composition, and all its other functions proceed, is an
immaterial being, which Stahl calls the Soul; because,
as he says, when the effects are so similar, he will not
multiply powers without necessity. Of this principle, he
says, as the Hippocratians said of Nature, that “ it does
without teaching what it ought to do},” and does it
“ without consideration jj.”
These ancient tenets Stahl
interprets in such a manner that even the involuntary
motions proceed from the soul, though without reflection
or clear consciousness. It is indeed evident, that there
are many customary motions and sensations which are
perfectly rational, yet not the objects of distinct conscious­
ness : and thus instinctive motions, and those of which
we are quite unconscious, may still be connected with
reason. The questions which in this view offer them-
• Spr., V. 308. + /A., v. 314.
+ StallI, ,tr€p\ dfraibcvTOV. § <
>
i*
k ck £1«*<
>
/»
/<
;.
Digitized by Google
568 PHILOSOPHY OF BIOLOGY.
selves, as, how the soul passes from the mother to the
child, he dismisses as unprofitable*. He considers nu­
trition and secretion as the work of the soul. The cor­
puscular theory and the doctrine of animal spirits are,
he rightly observes, mere hypotheses, which are arbitrary
in their character, and only shift the difficulty. For, if
the animal spirits are not matter, how can they explain
the action of an immaterial substance on the body; and
if they are matter, how are they themselves acted on ?
This doctrine of the action of the soul on the body,
was accepted by many persons, especially by the iatro-
mathematicians, who could not but feel the insufficiency
of their system without some such supplement: such
were Cheyne and Mead. In Germany, Stahl's disciples
in physiology were for the most part inconsiderable per­
sonsf. Several Englishmen who speculated concerning
the metaphysics as well as the physiology of Sensation
and Motion, inclined to this psychical view, as Porterfield
and Whytt. Among the French, Boissier de Sauvages
was the most zealous defender of the Stahlian system.
Actions, he saysj, which belong to the preservation of
life are determined by a moral not a mechanical neces­
sity. They proceed from the soul, but cannot be con­
trolled by it, as the starting from fear, or the trembling
at danger. Unzer, a physician at Altona §, was also a
philosophical Stahlian ¡|.
We need not dwell on the opposition which was
offered to this theory, first by Hoffmann, and afterwards
by Haller. The former of these had promulgated, as we
have seen, the rival theory of a Nervous Fluid, the latter*
*
*
§
* This was of course an obvious problem. Harvey, On Genera­
tion, Exercise 27, p. 148, teaches, “ That the egfl is not the production
of the womb, but of the soul/'
t Spr., v. 339, &c. % l b 35a
§ a.i>
. 1799. || Spr., v. 360. _
Digitized by Google
SUCCESSIVE BIOLOGICAL HYPOTHESES. 569
was the principal assertor of the doctrine of Irritability,
an important theory on which we may afterwards have to
touch. Haller’s animosity against the Stahlian hypo­
thesis is a remarkable feature in one who is in general so
tolerant in his judgment of opinions. His arguments are
taken from the absence of the control of the will over
the vital actions, from the want of consciousness accom­
panying these actions, from the uniformity of them in dif­
ferent conditions of the mind, and from the small sensi­
bility of the heart which is the source of the vital actions.
These objections, and the too decided distinction which
Haller made between voluntary and involuntary muscles^
were very satisfactorily answered by Whytt and Plainer.
In particular, it was urged that the instinctive actions of
brutes are inexplicable by means of mechanism, and may
be compared with the necessary vital actions of the
human body. Neither kind are accidental, neither kind
are voluntary, both are performed without reflection.
Without tracing further the progress of the Psychical
Doctrine, I shall borrow a few reflections upon it from
Sprengel *:—
“ When the opponents of the Stahlian system repeat
incessantly that the assumption of a psychical cause in
corporeal effects is a metaphysical speculation which does
not belong to medicine, they talk to no purpose. The
states of the soul are objects of our internal experience,
and interest the physician too nearly to allow him to
neglect them. The innumerable unconscious efforts of
the soul, the powerful and daily effects of the passions
upon the body, too often put to confusion those who
would expel into the region of metaphysics the disposi­
tions of the mind. The connexion of our knowledge of
the soul, as gathered from experience, with our know-
• Spr., v. 383.
Digitized by Googk
570 PHIL080PHY OF BIOLOGY.
ledge of the human body, is far closer than the mecha­
nical and chemical physiologists suspect.
“The strongest objection against the psychical sys­
tem, and one which has never been sufficiently answered
by any of its advocates, is the universality of organic
effects in the vegetable kingdom. The comparison of
the physiology of plants with the physiology of animals
puts the latter in its true light. Without absolutely
.trifling with the word soul, we cannot possibly derive
from a soul the organic operations of vegetables. But
just as little can we, as some Stahlians have done, draw
a sharp line between plants and animals, and ascribe the
processes of the former to mere mechanism, while we
derive the operations of the latter from an intellectual
principle. Not to mention that such a line is not pos­
sible, the rise of the sap and the alteration of the fluids
of plants cannot be derived entirely from material causes
as their highest origin.”
Thus, I may add, this psychical theory, however diffi­
cult to defend in its detail, does in its generalities express
some important truths respecting the vital powers. It
not only, like the last theory, gives unity to the living
body, but it marks, more clearly than any other theory,
the wide interval which separates mechanical and che­
mical from vital action, and fixes our attention upon the
new powers which the consideration of life compels us to
assume. It not only reminds us that these powers are
elevated above the known laws of the material world, but
also that they are closely connected with the world of
thought and feeling, of will and reason; and thus it
carries us, in a manner in which none of the preceding
theories have done, to a true conception of a living,
conscious, sentient, active individual.
At the same time we cannot but allow' that the life
Digitized by Google
SUCCESSIVE BIOLOGICAL HYPOTHESES. 571
of plants and of the lower orders of animals shows us
very clearly that, in order to arrive at any sound and
consistent knowledge respecting life, we must form some
conception of it from which all the higher attributes
which the term “ soul” involves, are utterly and care­
fully excluded; and therefore we cannot but come to the
conclusion that the psychical school are right mainly in
this; that in ascribing the functions of life to a soul,
they mark strongly andjustly the impossibility of ascrib­
ing them to any known attributes of body.
Ch a p t e r III.
ATTEMPTS TO ANALYZE THE IDEA OF LIFE.
1. Definitions of Life.—We have seen in the pre­
ceding chapter that all attempts to obtain a distinct
conception of the nature of Life in general have ended
in failure, and produced nothing beyond a negative
result. And the conjecture may now naturally occur,
that the cause of this failure resides in an erroneous
mode of propounding to ourselves the problem. Instead
of contemplating Life as a single Idea, it may perhaps
be proper to separate it into several component notions:
instead of seeking for one cause of all vital operations, it
may be well to look at the separate vital functions, and
to seek their causes. When the view of this possibility
opens upon us, how shall we endeavour to verify it, and
to take advantage of it ?
Let us, as one obvious course, take some of the
attempts which have been made to define Life, and let
us see whether they appear to offer to us any analysis
of the idea into component parts. Such definitions,
when they proceed from men of philosophical minds
Digitized by Google
572 PHILOSOPHY OF BIOLOGY.
are the ultimate result of a long course of thought and
observation; and by no means deserve to be slighted as
arbitrary selections ofconditions, or empty forms of words.
2. Life has been defined by Stahl*, “ The con­
dition ~by which a body resists a natural tendency to che­
mical changes, such as putrefaction.” In like manner,
M. von Humboldtf defines living bodies to be “ those
which, notwithstanding the constant operation of causes
tending to change their form, are hindered by a certain
inward power from undergoing such change.” The first
of these definitions amounts only to the assertion, that
vital processes are not chemical; a negative result, which
we may accept as true, but which is, as we have seen, a
barren truth. The second appears to be, in its import,
identical with the first. An inward principle can only
be understood as distinguished from known external
powers, such as mechanical and chemical agencies. Or
if, by an internal principle, we mean such a principle as
that of which we are conscious within ourselves, we
ascribe a soul to all living things: an hypothesis which
we have seen is not more effective than the former in
promoting the progress of biological science. Nearly
the same criticism applies to such definitions as that
of Kant: that “ Life is an internal faculty producing
change, motion, and action.”
Other definitions refer us, not to some property
residing in the whole of an organized mass, but to the
connexion and relation of its parts. Thus M. von Hum­
boldtJ has given another definition of a living body:
that “ it is a whole whose parts, arbitrarily separated, no
longer resist chemical changes.” But this additional
assertion concerning the parts, adds nothing of any
* Treviranuu, B
i
o
l
o
g
i
c,p. 19. Stahlii, Theor. Med., p. 254.
+ Aphorismett tius d. Chem. Physiol, dcr Pflanzen, ». 1.
% Versuche iiber die gereilzle Muskel und Nervcnfaser, Book II.,
p. 433.
Digitized by Googk
ATTEMPTS TO ANALYZE THE IDEA OF LIFE. 573
value to the definition of the whole. And in some of
the lower kinds of plants and animals it is hardly true
as a fact.
3. Another definition * places the character of Life in
“ motions serviceable to the body moved.” To this it
has been objectedf, that, on this definition, the earth and
the planets are living bodies. Perhaps it would be more
philosophical to object to the introduction of so loose a
notion as that of a property being serviceable to a body.
We might also add, that if we speak of all vital func­
tions as motions, we make an assumption quite unautho­
rized, and probably false.
Other definitions refer the idea of Life to the idea of
Organization. “ Life is the activity of matter according
to laws of organization J.” We are then naturally led to
ask what is Organization. In reply to this is given us
the Kantian definition of Organization, which I have
already quoted elsewhere §
,
“An organized product
nature is that in which all the parts are mutually ends
and means ||.” That this definition involves exact fun­
damental ideas, and is capable of being made the basis of
sound knowledge, I shall hereafter endeavour to show.
But I may observe that such a definition leads us some­
what further. If the parts of organized bodies are known
to be means to certain ends, this must be known because
they fulfil these ends, and produce certain effects by the
operation of a certain cause or causes. The question then
recurs, what is the cause which produces such effects as
take place in organized or living bodies? and this is iden­
tical with the problem of which in the last chapter we*
*
*
§
* Erhard, Roschlaub’s Magazin der Heilkunde, B. i., B tl, p. 69.
t Treviranus, Biologie, p. 41.
X Schmid, Physiologic, B. n., p. 274.
§ Hist. Ind. Sc., B. xvii. c. viii. sect. 2.
|| Kant, Urtheilskraft, p. 296.
Digitized by Googk
574 PHILOSOPHY OF BIOLOGY.
traced the history, and related the failure of physiologists
in all attempts at its solution.
4. But what has been just said suggests to us
that it may be an improvement to put our problem in
another shape:—not to take for granted that the cause
of all vital processes is one, but to suppose that there
may be several separate causes at work in a living body.
If this be so, life is no longer one kind of activity, but
several. We have a number of operations which are
somehow bound together, and life is the totality of all
these: in short, life is not one Function, but a System of
Functions. '
5. We are thus brought very near to the celebrated
definition of life given by Bichat *: “ Life is the sum of
the functions by which death is resisted.” But upon the
definition thus stated, we may venture to observe;—first,
that the introduction of the notion of death in order to
define the notion of life appears to be unphilosophical.
We may more naturally define death with reference to
life, as the cessation of life; or at least we may consider
life and death as correlative and interdependent notions.
Again, the word “ sum,” used in the way in which it here
occurs, appears to be likely to convey an erroneous con­
ception, as if the functions here spoken of were simply
added to each other, and connected by co-existence. It
is plain that our idea of life involves more than this: the
functions are all clearly connected, and mutually depend
on each other; nutrition, circulation, locomotion, repro­
duction,—each has its influence upon all the others.
These functions not merely co-exist, but exist with many
mutual relations and connexions; they are continued so
as to form, not merely a sum, but a system. And thus
we are led to modify Bichat’s definition, and to say that
Life is the system of vitalfunctions.
* Physiological Researches on Life and Death.
Digitized by Google
6. But it will be objected that by such a definition
we explain nothing: the notion of vitalfunctions, it may
be said, involves the idea of life, and thus brings us
round again to our starting point. Or if not, at least
it is as necessary to define Vital Functions as to define
Life itself so that we have made little progress in our
task.
To this we reply, that if any one seeks, upon such
subjects, some ultimate and independent definition from
which he can, by mere reasoning, deduce a series of con­
clusions, he seeks that which cannot be found. In the
Inductive Sciences, a Definition does not form the basis
of reasoning, but points out the course of investigation.
The definition must include words; and the meaning of
these words must be sought in the progress and results
of observations, as I have elsewhere said*. “ The mean­
ing of words is to be sought in the progress of thought;
the history of science is our dictionary; the steps of
scientific induction are our definitions.” It will appear,
I think, that it is more easy for us to form an idea of a
separate Function of the animal frame, as Nutrition or
Reproduction, than to comprehend Life in general under
any single idea. And when we say that Life is a system
of Vital Functions, we are of'course directed to study
these functions separately, and (as in all other subjects
of scientific research) to endeavour to form of them such
clear and definite ideas as may enable us to discover
their laws.
7. The view to which we are thus led, of the most
promising mode of conducting the researches of Biology,
is one which the greatest and most philosophical physi­
ologists of modern times have adopted. Thus Cuvier
considers this as the true office of physiology at present.
“ It belongs to modern times,” he says, “to form a just
• Hist, Ind. S e t B. x m . c. ix.
ATTEMPTS TO ANALYZE THE IDEA OF LIFE. 575
Digitized by Googk
576 PHILOSOPHY OF BIOLOGY.
classification of the vital phenomena; the task of the
present time is to analyze the forces which belong to
each organic element, and upon the zeal and activity
which are given to this task, depends, according to my
judgment, the fortune of physiology*.” This classifica­
tion of the phenomena of life involves, of course, a dis­
tinction and arrangement of the vital functions; and the
investigation of the powers by which these functions are
carried on, is a natural sequel to such a classification.
8. Classifications ofiFunctions.—Attempts to classify
the Vital Functions of man were made at an early period,
and have been repeated in great number up to modern
times. The task of classification is exposed to the same
difficulties, and governed by the same conditions, in this
as in other subjects. Here, as in the case of other things,
there may be many classifications which are moderately
good and natural, but there is only one which is the best
and the true natural system. Here, as in other cases,
one classification brings into view one set of relations;
another, another; and each may be valuable for its spe­
cial purpose. Here, as in other cases, the classes may be
well constituted, though the boundary lines which divide
them be somewhat indistinct, and the order doubtful.
Here, as in other cases, we may have approached to the
natural classification without having attained it; and
here, as in other cases, to define our classes is the last
and hardest of our problems.
The most ancient classification of the Functions of
living things f, is the division of them into Vital, Natural,
and Animal. The Vital Functions are those which can­
not be interrupted without loss of life, as Circulation,
Respiration, and Nervous Communication. The Natural
Functions are those which without the intervention of
• Hist. Sc. Nat. dep. 1789, i. 218.
t Diet, des Sciences Nat., art. Fonction*.
Digitized by Google
the will operate on their proper occasions to preserve
the bodies of animals; they are Digestion, Absolution*
Nutrition; to which was added Generation. The Animal
Functions are those which involve perception and will,
by which the animal is distinguished from the vegetable;
they are Sensibility, Locomotion, and Voice.
The two great grounds of this division, the distinction
of functions which operate continually, and those which
operate occasionally; and again, the distinction of func­
tions which involve sensation and voluntary motion from
those which do not, are turly of fundamental import­
ance, and gave a real value to this classification. It
was, however, liable to obvious objections: namely, First,
that the names of the classes were ill chosen; for all the
functions are natural, all are vital: Second, that the lines
of demarcation between the classes are indefinite and
ambiguous; Respiration is a vital function, as being
continually necessary to life; but it is also a natural
function, since it concurs in the formation of the nutri­
tive fluid, and an animal function, since it depends in
part on the will. But these objections were not fatal,
for a classification may be really sound and philosophi­
cal, though its boundary lines are vague, and its nomen­
clature ill selected. The division of the functions we
have mentioned kept its ground long; or was employed
with a subdivision of one class, so as to make them four;
the vital, natural, animal and sexual functions.
10. I pass over many intermediate attempts to clas­
sify the functions, and proceed to that of Bichat as that
which is, I believe, the one most generally assented to in
modern times. The leading principle in the scheme of
this celebrated physiologist is the distinction between
organic and animal life. This separation is nearly iden­
tical with the one just noticed between the vital and
animal functions; but Bichat, by the contrasts which he
VOL. i. w . p. P p
ATTEMPTS TO ANALYZE THE IDEA OF LIFE. 577
Digitized by Googk
578 PHILOSOPHY OF BIOLOGY.
pointed out between these classes of functions, gave a
decided prominence and permanence to the distinction.
The Organic Life, which in animals is analogous to the
life of vegetables, and the Animal Life, which implies
sensation and voluntary motion, have each its system of
organs. The center of the animal life is the brain, of the
organic life, the heart. The former is carried on by a
symmetrical, the latter, by an unsymmetrical system of
organs: the former produces intermitting, the latter con­
tinuous actions: and, in addition to these, other differ­
ences are pointed out. This distinction of the two lives,
being thus established, each is subdivided into two orders
of Functions. The Animal Functions are passive, as
Sensation: or active, as Locomotion and Voice; again,
the Organic Functions are those of composition, which are
concerned in taking matter into the system; Digestion,
Absorption, Respiration, Circulation, Assimilation; and
those of decomposition, which reject the materials wr
hen
they have discharged their office in the system; and these
are again, Absorption, Circulation, and Secretion. To
these are added Calorification, or the production of
animal heat. It appears, from what has been said,
that Absorption and Circulation, (and we may add Assi­
milation and Secretion, which are difficult to separate,)
belong alike to the processes of composition and decom­
position ; nor in truth, can we, with any rigour, separate
the centripetal and centrifugal movements in that vor­
tex which, as we shall see, is an apt image of organic
life.
Several objections have been made to this classifica­
tion ; and in particular, to the terms thus employed. It
has been asserted to be a perversion of language to
ascribe to animals two lives, and to call the higher facul­
ties in man, perception and volition, the animal func­
tions. But, as we have already said, when a classification
Digitized by Googk
is really good, such objections, which bear only upon the
mode in which it is presented, are by no means fatal:
and it is generally acknowledged, by all the most philo­
sophical cultivators of biology, that this arrangement of
the functions is better suited to the purposes of the
science than those which preceded it.
11. But according to the principles which we have
already laid down, the solidity of such a classification is
to be verified by its serving as a useful guide in biologi­
cal researches. If the arrangement which we have ex­
plained be really founded in natural relations, it will be
found that in proportion as physiologists have studied
the separate functions above enumerated, their ideas of
these functions, and of the powers by which they are
carried on, have become more and more clear;—have
tended more and more to the character of exact and
rigorous science.
To examine how far this has been the case with
regard to all the separate functions, would be to attempt
to estimate the value of all the principal physiological
speculations of modern times;—a task far too vast and
too arduous for any one to undertake who has not
devoted his life to such studies. But it may properly
come within the compass of our present plan to shew
how, with regard to the broader lines of the above clas­
sification, there has been such a progress as we have
above described, from more loose and inaccurate notions
of some of the vital functions to more definite and pre­
cise ideas. This I shall attempt to point out in one or
two instances.
ATTEMPTS TO ANALYZE THE IDEA OF LIFE. 579
p p 2
Digitized by Googk
580
C h a p t e r IV.
ATTEMPTS TO FORM IDEAS OF SEPARATE VITAL
FORCES, AND FIRST OF ASSIMILATION
AND SECRETION.
Sect. I.— Course o f Biological Research.
1. It is to be observed that at present I do not speak
of the progress of our knowledge with regard to the
detail of the processes which take place in the human
body, but of the approach made to some distinct Idea of
the specially vital part of each process. In the History
of Physiology, it has been seen* that all the great dis­
coveries made respecting the organs and motions of the
animal frame have been followed by speculations and
hypotheses connected with such discoveries. The dis­
covery of the circulation of the blood led to theories of
animal heat; the discovery of the motion of the chyle
led to theories of digestion; the close examination of
the process of reproduction in plants and animals led to
theories of generation. In all these cases, the discovery
brought to light some portion of the process which was
mechanical or chemical, but it also, in each instance,
served to show that the process was something more
than mechanical or chemical. The theory attempted to
explain the process by the application of known causes;
but there always remained some part of it which must
unavoidably be referred to an unknown cause. But
though unknown, such a cause was not a hopeless object
of study. As the vital functions became better and
better understood, it was seen more and more clearly at
what precise points of the process it was necessary to
assume a peculiar vital energy, and what sort of pro­
* Hist. Ind. S c i B. x v i i .
Digitized by Googk
ATTEMPTS TO FORM IDEAS OF SEPARATE VITAL FORCES. 581
perties this energy must be conceived to possess. It
was perceived where, in what manner, in what degree,
mechanical and chemical agencies were modified, over­
ruled, or counteracted, by agencies which must be
hyper-mechanical and hyper-chemical. And thus the
discoveries made in anatomy by a laborious examination
of facts, pointed out the necessity of introducing new
ideas, in order that the facts might be intelligible.
Observation taught much; and among other things, she
taught that there was something which could not be
observed, but which must, if possible, be conceived. I
shall notice a few instances of this.
Se c t . II.—Attempts toform distinct Conception of
Assimilation and Secretion.
2. The Ancients.—That plants and animals grow by
taking into their substance matter previously extraneous,
is obvious to all; but as soon as we attempt to conceive
this process distinctly in detail, we find that it involves
no inconsiderable mystery. How does the same food
become blood and flesh, bone and hair? Perhaps the
earliest attempt to explain this mystery, is that recorded
by Lucretius* as the opinion of Anaxagoras, that food
contains some bony, some fleshy particles, some of blood,
and so on. We might, on this supposition, conceive
that the mechanism of the body appropriates each kind
of particle to its suitable place.
But it is easy to refute this essay at philosophizing
(as Lucretius refutes it) by remarking that we do not
find milk in grass, or blood in fruit, though such food
gives such products in cattle and in men. In opposition
to this “ Homoiomereia,” the opinion that is forced upon
us by the facts is, that the process of nutrition is not a
selection merely, but an assimilation; the organized
* Lucr., i. 855, Nunc et Anaxagnno scmtomnr ofiaio^puav.
Digitized by Google
582 PHILOSOPHY OF BIOLOGY.
system does not f
i
n
d,but make, the additions
structure.
3. Buffon.
—This notion of assimilation may be vari­
ously expressed and illustrated; and all that we can do
here, in order to show the progress of thought, is to
adduce the speculations of those writers who have been
most successful in seizing and marking its peculiar cha­
racter. Buffon may be taken as an example of the
philosophy of his time on this subject. “ The body of
the animal,” says he *, “ is a kind of interior mould, in
which the matter subservient to its increase is modelled
and assimilated to the whole, in such a way that, with­
out occasioning any change in the order and proportion
of the parts, there results an augmentation in each part
taken separately. This increase, this developement, if
we would have a clear idea of it, how can we obtain it,
except by considering the body of the animal, and each
of the parts which is to be developed, as so many interior
moulds which only receive the accessory matter in the
order which results from the position of all their parts?
This developement cannot take place, as persons some­
times persuade themselves, by an addition to the outside;
on the contrary, it goes on by an intimate susception
which penetrates the mass; for, in the part thus deve­
loped, the size increases in all parts proportionally, so
that the new matter must penetrate it in all its dimen­
sions : and it is quite necessary that this penetration of
substance must take place in a certain order, and accord­
ing to a certain measure; for if this were not so, some
parts would develope themselves more than others.
Now what can there be which shall prescribe such a
rule to the accessory matter except the interior mould."
To speak of a mould simply, would convey a coarse
mechanical notion, which could not be received as any
* Hist. Nat., B. i. c. iii-
Digitized by Google
ATTEMPTS TO FORM IDEAS OF SEPARATE VITAL FORCES. 583
useful contribution to physiological speculation. But
this interior mould is, of course, to be understood
figuratively, not as an assemblage of cavities, but as a
collection of laws, shaping, directing, and modifying the
new matter; giving it not only form, but motion and
activity, such as belong to the parts of an organic being.
4. It must be allowed, however, that even with this
explanation, the comparison is very loose and insuffi­
cient. A mould may be permitted to mean a collection
of laws, but still it can convey no conception except
that of laws regulated by relations of space; and such a
conception is very plainly quite inadequate to the pur­
pose. What can we conceive of the interior mould by
which chyle is separated from the aliments at the pores
of the lacteals, or tears secreted in the lacrymatory
gland ?
An additional objection to this mode of expression of
Buffon is, that it suggests to us only a single marked
change in the assimilated matter, not a continuous series
of changes. Yet the animal fluids and other substances
are, in fact, undergoing a constant series of changes.
Food becomes chyme, and chyme becomes chyle; chyle
is poured into the blood; from the blood secretions take
place, as the bile; the bile is poured into the digestive
canal, and a portion of the matter previously introduced
is rejected out of the system. Here we must have a
series of “ interior moulds;” and these must impress
matter at its ejection from the organic system as well as
at its reception. But, moreover, it is probable that none
of the above transformations are quite abrupt. Change
is going on between the beginning and the end of each
stage of the nutritive circulation. To express the laws
of this continuous change, the image of an interior
mould is quite unsuited. We must seek a better mode
of conception.
Digitized by Google
584 PHILOSOPHY OF BIOLOGY.
5. Vegetable and animal nutrition is, as we have
said, a constant circulation. The matter so assumed is
not all retained: a perpetual subtraction accompanies a
perpetual addition. There is an excretion as well as an
intussusception. The matter which is assumed by the
living creature is retained only for a while, and is then
parted with. The individual is the same, but its parts
are in a perpetual flux: they come and go. For a time
the matter which belongs to the organic body is bound
to it by certain laws: but before it is thus bound, and
after it is loose, this matter may circulate about the uni­
verse in any other form. Life consists in a permanent
influence over a perpetually changing set of particles.
Cuvier— This condition also has been happily ex­
pressed, by means of a comparison, by another great
naturalist. “ If” says Cuvier *, “ if in order to obtain a
just idea of the essence of life, we consider it in the
beings where its effects are most simple, we shall soon
perceive that it consists in the faculty which belongs to
certain bodily combinations to continue during a deter­
minate time under a determinate form; constantly at­
tracting into their composition a part of the surround­
ing substances, and giving up in return some part of
their own substance.
“ Life is thus a vortex, more or less rapid, more or
less complex, which has a constant direction, and which
always carries along its stream particles of the same
kinds; but in which the individual particles are con­
stantly entering in and departing out; so that the form
of the living body is more essential to it than its matter.
“ So long as this motion subsists, the body in which
it takes place is alive; it lives. When the motion stops
finally, the body d
i
e
s
.A
fter death, the elements
compose the body, given up to the ordinary chemical
* Regne Animal, i. 11.
Digitized by Google
affinities, soon separate, and the body which was alive is
dissolved.”
This notion of a vortex* which is permanent while
the matter which composes it constantly changes,—of
peculiar forces which act in this vortex so long as it
exists, and which give place to chemical forces when the
circulatory motion ceases,—appears to express some of
the leading conditions of the assimilative power of living
things in a simple and general manner, and thus tends
to give distinctness to the notion of this vital function.
6. But we may observe that this notion of a vortex
is still insufficient. Particles are not only taken into the
system and circulated through it for a time, but, as we
have seen, they are altered in character in a manner to
us unintelligible, both at their first admission into the
system and at every period of their progress through it.
In the vortex each particle is constantly transformed
while it whirls. .
It may be said, perhaps, that this transformation of
the kinds of matter may be conceived to be merely a
new arrangement of their particles, and that thus all the
changes which take place in the circulating substances
are merely so many additional windings in the course of
the whirling current. But to say this, is to take for
granted the atomic hypothesis in its rudest form. What
right have we to assume that blood and tears, bile and
milk, consist of like particles of matter differently ar­
ranged? What can arrangement, a mere relation of
• The definition of life given by M. de Blainville appears to me
not to differ essentially from that of Cuvier. “ Un corps vivant est
une sorte de foyer chimique où il-y-a à tous momens apport de nou­
velles molecules et depart de molecules anciennes ; où la composition
n'est jamais fixe (si ce n’est d’un certain nombre de parties vérita­
blement mortes ou en depot), mais toujours pour ainsi dire
d’où mouvement plus ou moins lent et quelquefois chaleur. — Principes
(TAnal. Cowp., 1822, 1.1. p. lt>.
ATTEMPTS TO FORM IDEAS OF SEPARATE VITAL FORCES. 585
Digitized by Googk
586 PHILOSOPHY OF BIOLOGY.
space, do towards explaining such differences? Is not
the insufficiency, the absurdity of such an assumption
proved by the whole course of science ? Are not even
chemical changes, according to the best views hitherto
obtained, something more than a mere new arrangement
of particles? And are not vital as much beyond che­
mical, as chemical are beyond geometrical modifications?
It is not enough, then, to conceive life as a vortex. The
particles which are taken into the organic frame do
more than circulate there. They are, at every point of
their circulation, acted upon by laws of an unknown
kind, changing the nature of the substance which they
compose. Life is a vortex in which vital forces act at
. every point of the stream: it is not only a current of
whirling matter, but a cycle of recurring powers.
7. Matter and Form— This image of a vortex is
closely connected with the representation of life offered
us by writers of a very different school. In Schelling’s
Lectures on Academic Study, he takes a survey of the
various branches of human knowledge, determining
according to his own principles the shape which each
science must necessarily assume. The peculiar charac­
ter of organization, according to him *, is that the matter
is only an accident of the thing itself, and the organiza­
tion consists in Form alone. But this Form, by its very
opposition to Matter, ceases to be independent of it, and
is only ideally separable. In organization, therefore,
substance and accident, matter and form, are completely
identical f. This notion, that in organization the form
is essential and the matter accidental, or, in other words,
that the form is permanent and the matter fluctuating
and transitory, agrees, if taken in the grossest sense of
* Lect. xin. p. 288.
+ I have not translated Schelling’s word«, but given their import as
far as I could.
Digitized by Google
ATTEMPTS TO FORM IDEAS OF SEPARATE VITAL FORCES. 587
matter and form, with Cuvier’s image of a vortex. In a
whirlpool, or in a waterfall, the form remains, the mat­
ter constantly passes away and is renewed. But we
have already seen* that in metaphysical speculations in
which matter and form are opposed, the word form is
used in a far more extensive sense than that which
denotes a relation of space. It may indeed designate
any change which matter can undergo; and we may
very allowably say that food and blood are the same
matter under different forms. Hence if we assert that
Life is a constant Form of a circulating Matter, we
express Cuvier’s notion in a mode free from the false
suggestion which “ vortex” conveys.
8. We may, however, still add something to this
account of life. The circulating parts of the system not
only circulate, but they form the non-circulating parts.
Or rather, there are no non-circulating parts: all por­
tions of the frame circulate more or less rapidly. The
food which we take circulates rapidly in the fluids, more
slowly in the flesh, still more slowly in the bones; but
in all these parts it is taken into the system, retained
there for some time, and finally replaced by other mat­
ter. But while it remains in the body, it exercises upon
the other circulating parts the powers by which their
motion is produced. Nutriment forms and supports the
organs, and the organs carry fresh nutriment to its des­
tination. The peculiar forces of the living body, and
its peculiar structure, are thus connected in an inde­
scribable manner. The forces produce the structure;
the structure, again, is requisite for the exertion of the
forces. The Idea of an Organic or Living Being includes
this peculiar condition—that its construction and powers
are such, that it constantly appropriates to itself new
portions of substance which, so appropriated, become
* Book I.
Digitized by Googk
588 PHILOSOPHY OF BIOLOGY.
indistinguishable parts of the whole, and serve to carry
on subsequently the same functions by which they were
assimilated. And thus Organic Life is a constant Form
of a circulating M
a
t
t
e
r
, in which the Matter and
Form determine each other by peculiar laws ( is, by
Vital Forces).
S ect. Ill .—A
tte
m
p
ts
toconceive the forces of Assimi­
lation and Secretion.
9. I have already stated that in our attempts to ob­
tain clear and scientific Ideas of Vital Forces, we have,
in the first place, to seek to understand the course of
change and motion in each function, so as to see at what
points of the process peculiar causes come into play;
and next, to endeavour to obtain some insight into the
peculiar character and attributes of these causes. Having
spoken of the first part of this mode of investigation in
regard to the general nutrition of organic bodies, I must
now say a few words on the second part.
The Forces here spoken of are Vital Forces. From
what has been said, we may see in some measure the dis­
tinction between forces of this kind and mechanical or
chemical forces; the latter tend constantly to produce a
final condition, after which there is no further cause of
change: mechanical forces tend to produce equilibrium;
chemical forces tend to produce composition or decompo­
sition ; and this point once reached, the matter in which
these forces reside is altogether inert. But an organic
body tends to a constant motion, and the highest activity
of organic forces shows itself in continuous change.
Again, in mechanical and chemical forces, the force of
any aggregate is the sum of the forces of all the parts:
the sum of the forces corresponds to the sum of the
matter. But in organic bodies, the amount of effect does
not depend on the matter, but on the form: the particles
Digitized by Google
ATTEMPTS TO FORM IDEAS OF SEPARATE VITAL FORCES. 589
lose their separate energy, in order to share in that of
the system; they are not added, they are assimilated.
10. It is difficult to say whether anything has been
gained to science by the various attempts to assign a
fixed name to the vital force which is thus the immediate
cause of Assimilation. It has been called Organic A t­
traction or Vital A
t
t
r
a
c
t
i
o
n
, Organic Affinity or Vital
A f f i n i t y ,being thus compared with mechanical Attraction
or chemical Affinity. But, perhaps, as the process is
certainly neither mechanical nor chemical, it is desirable
to appropriate to it a peculiar name; and the name Assi­
milation, or Organic Assimilation, by the usage of good
biological writers, is generally employed for this purpose,
and may be taken as the standard name of this Vital
Force. To illustrate this, I will quote a passage from
the excellent Elements of Physiology of Professor Muller.
“ In the process of nutrition is exemplified the funda­
mental principle of organic assimilation. Each elemen­
tary particle of an organ attracts similar particles from
the blood, and by the changes it produces in them,
causes them to participate in the vital principle of the
organ itself. Nerves take up nervous substance, muscles,
muscular substance: even morbid structures have the
assimilating power; warts in the skin grow with their
own peculiar structure; in an ulcer, the base and border
are nourished in a way conformable to the mode of
action and secretion determined by the disease.”
11. The Force of Organic Assimilation spoken of in
the last paragraph denotes peculiarly the force by which
each organ appropriates to itself a part of the nutriment
received into the system, and thus is maintained and aug­
mented with the growth of the whole. But the growth
of the solid parts is only one portion of the function of
nutrition; besides this, we must consider the motion and
changes of the fluids, and must ask what kind of forces
Digitized by Google
590 PHILOSOPHY OF BIOLOGY.
may be conceived to produce these. What are the
powers by which chyle is absoi'bed from the food, by
which bile is secreted from the blood, by which the cir­
culating motion of these and all other fluids of the body
are constantly maintained? To the questions,—What
are the forces by which absorption, secretion, and the
vital motions, of fluids are produced?—no satisfactory
answer has been returned. Yet still some steps have
been made, which it may be instructive to point out.
12. In Absorption it would appear that a part of the
agency is inorganic; for not only dead membranes, but
inorganic substances, absorb fluids, and even absorb them
with elective forces, according to the ingredients of the
fluid. A force which is of this kind, and which has been
termed Endosmose, has been found to produce very curi­
ous effects. When a membrane separates two fluids,
holding in solution different ingredients, the fluids pass
through the membrane in an imperceptible manner, and
mix or exchange their elements. The force which pro­
duces these effects is capable of balancing a very consi­
derable pressure. It appears, moreover, to depend, at
least among other causes, upon attractions operating
between the elements of the solids and the fluids, as
well as between the different fluids; and this force,
though thus apparently of a mechanical and chemical
nature, probably has considerable influence in vital
phenomena.
13. But still, though Endosmose may account in part
for absorption in some cases, it is certain that there is
some other vital force at work in this process. There
must be, as Müller says*, “ an organic attraction of a
kind hitherto unknown.” “ If absorption,” he addsf, “is
to be explained in a manner analogous to the laws of
endosmose, it must be supposed that a chemical affinity.
* Physiology, p. 299. t Jh., p. 301.
Digitized by Googk
resulting from the vital process itself is exerted between
the chyme in the intestines and the chyle in the lacteals,
by which the chyle is enabled to attract the chyme with­
out being itself attracted by it. But such affinity or
attraction would be of a vital nature, since it does not
exist after death.”
14. If the force of absorption be thus mysterious in
its nature, the force of Secretion is still more so. In this
case we have an organ filled with a fine net-work of
blood-vessels, and in the cavities of some , or open
part, we have a new fluid formed, of a kind altogether
different from the blood itself. It is easily shown that
this cannot be explained by any action of pores or capil­
lary tubes. But what conception can we form of the
forces by which such a change is produced ? Here, again,
I shall borrow the expressions of Müller, as presenting
the last result of modern physiology. He says *, “ The
more probable supposition is, that by virtue of imbibition,
or the general organic porosity, the fluid portion of the
blood becomes diffused through the tissue of the secreting
organ; that the external surface of the glandular canals
exerts a chemical attraction on the elements of the fluid,
infusing into them at the same time a tendency to unite
in new combinations *
, and then repels them in á manner
which is certainly quite inexplicable, towards the inner
surface of the secreting membrane, or glandular canals.”
“ Although quite unsupported by facts,” he adds, “this
theory of attraction and repulsion is not without its ana­
logy in physical phenomena; and it would appear that
very similar powers effect the elimination of the fluid in
secretion, and cause it to be taken up by the lymphatics
in absorption.” He elsewhere sayst, “ Absorption seems
to depend on an attraction the nature of which is un­
known, but of which the very counterpart, as it were,
• Physiology, p. 464. t 76., p. 301.
ATTEMPTS TO FORM IDEAS OF SEPARATE VITAL FORCES. 591
Digitized by Google
592 PHILOSOPHY OF BIOLOGY.
takes place in secretion; the fluids altered by the se­
creting action being repelled towards the free side or
open surface only of the secreting membranes, and then
pressed forwards by the successive portions of the fluids
secreted.”
15. With regard to the forces which produce the
Motion of absorbed or secreted fluids along their destined
course, it may be seen, from the last quoted sentence,
that the same vital force which changes the nature, also
produces the movement of the substance. The fluids are
pressed forwards by the successive portions absorbed or
secreted. That this is the sole cause, or at least a very
powerful cause, of the motion of the nutritive fluids in
organic bodies, is easily shown by experience. It is found*
that the organs which effect the ascent of the sap in trees
during the spring are the terminal parts of the roots;
that the whole force by which the sap is impelled upwards
is the vis a t
e
r
g
o
, as it has been called, the force pushi
from behind, exerted in the roots. And thus the force
which produces this motion is exerted exactly at those
points where the organic body selects from the contiguous
mass those particles which it absorbs and appropriates.
And the same may most probably be taken for the cause
of the iriotion of the lymph and chyle; at least, Müller
saysf that no other motive power has been detected
which impels those fluids in their course.
Thus, though we must confess the Vital Force con­
cerned in Assimilation and Secretion to be unknown in
its nature, we still obtain a view of some of the attributes
which it involves. It has mechanical efficacy, producing
motions, often such as would require great mechanical
force. But it exerts at the same point both an attraction
and a repulsion, attracting matter on one side, and repel­
ling it on the other; and in this circumstance it differs
• Müller, p. 300. + M .,p.254.
Digitized by Googk
ATTEMPTS TO FORM IDEAS OF SEPARATE VITAL FORCES. 5 9 3
entirely from mechanical forces. Again, it is not only
mechanical but chemical, producing a complete change
in the nature of the substance on which it acts; to which
we must add that the changes produced by the vital
forces are such as, for the most part, our artificial che­
mistry cannot imitate. But, again, by the action of the
vital force at any point of an organ, not only are fluids
made to pass, and changed as they pass, but the organ
itself is maintained and strengthened, so as to continue
or to increase its operation: and thus the vital energy
supports its activity by its action, and is augmented by
being exerted.
We have thus endeavoured to obtain a view of some
of the peculiar characters which belong to the Force of
Organic Assimilation;—the Force by which life is kept
up, conceived in the most elementary form to which we
can reduce it by observation and contemplation. It ap­
pears that it is a force which not only produces motion
and chemical change, but also vitalizes the matter on
which it acts, giving to it the power of producing like
changes on other matter, and so on indefinitely. It not
only circulates the particles of matter, but puts them in
a stream of which the flow is developement as well as
movement.
The force of Organic Assimilation being thus con­
ceived, it becomes instructive to compare it with the
force concerned in Generation, which we shall therefore
endeavour to do.
Sect. IV.—Attempts to conceive the Process of Gene­
ration.
16. At first sight the function of Nutrition appears
very different from the function of Generation. In the
former case we have merely the existing organs main­
tained or enlarged, and their action continued; in the
VOL. i. w . p . Q Q
Digitized by Googk
594 PHILOSOPHY OF BIOLOGY.
latter, we have a new individual produced and extricated
from the parent. The term Reproduction has, no doubt,
been applied, by different writers, to both these func­
tions ;—to the processes by which an organ when muti­
lated, is restored by the forces of the living body, and to
the process by which a new generation of individuals is
produced which may be considered as taking the place
of the old generation, as these are gradually removed by
death. But these are obviously different senses of the
word. In the latter case, the term Reproduction is
figuratively used; for the same individuals are not repro­
duced ; but the species is kept up by the propagation of
new individuals, as in nutrition the organ is kept up by
the assimilation of new matter. To escape ambiguity, I
shall avoid using the term Reproduction in the sense of
Propagation.
17. In Nutrition, as we have seen, the matter, which
from being at first extraneous, is appropriated by the
living system, and directed to the sustentation of the
organs, undergoes a series of changes of which the detail
eludes our observation and apprehension. The nutriment
which we receive contributes to the growth of flesh and
bone, viscera and organs of sense. But we cannot trace
in its gradual changes a visible preparation for its final
office. The portion of matter which is destined to repair
the waste of the eye or the skin, is not found assuming a
likeness to the parts of the eye or the structure of the
skin, as it comes near the place where it is moulded into
its ultimate form. The new parts are insinuated among
the old ones, in an obscure and imperceptible matter.
We can trace their progress only by their effects. The
organs are nourished, and that is almost all we can learn:
we cannot discover how this is done. We cannot follow
nature through a series of manifest preparations and
processes to this result.
Digitized by Google
ATTEMPTS TO FORM IDEAS OF SEPARATE VITAL FORCES. 595
18. In Generation the case is quite different. The
young being is formed gradually and by a series of dis­
tinguishable processes. It is included within the parent
before it is extruded, and approaches more or less to the
likeness of the parent before it is detached. While it is
still an embryo, it shares in the nutriment which circu­
lates through the system of the mother ; but its destina­
tion is already clear. While the new and the old parts, in
every other portion of the mother, are undistinguishably
mixed together, this new part, the foetus, is clearly dis­
tinct from the rest of the system, and becomes rapidly
more and more so, as the time goes on. And thus there
is formed, not a new part, but a new whole ; it is not an
organ which is kept up, but an offspring which is pre­
pared. The progeny is included in the parent, and is
gradually fitted to be separated from it. The young is at
first only the developement of a part of the organization
of the mother;—of a germ, an ovule. But it is not
developed like other organs, retaining its general form.
It does not become merely a larger bud, a larger ovule ; it
is entirely changed; it becomes—from a bud—a blossom,
a flower, a fruit, a seed ; from an ovule it becomes an
egg, a chick, a bird ; or it may be, a fœtus, a child. The
original rudiment is not merely nourished, but unfolded
and transformed through the most marked and remote
changes, gradually tending to the form of the new indi­
vidual.
19. But this is not all. The fœtus is, as we have
said, a developement of a portion of the mother’s organi­
zation. But the fœtus (supposing it female) is a likeness
of the mother. The mother, even before conception,
contains within herself the germs of her progeny ; the
female fœtus, therefore, at a certain stage of develope­
ment, will contain also the germs of possible progeny ;
and thus we may have the germs of future generations,
QQ2
Digitized by Googk
5 9 6 PHILOSOPHY OF BIOLOGY.
pre-existing and included successively within one another.
And this state of tilings, which thus suggests itself to us
as possible, is found to be the case in facts which obser­
vation supplies. Anatomists have traced ovules in the
unborn foetus, and thus we have three generations in­
cluded one within another.
20. Supposing we were to stop here, the process of
propagation might appear to be altogether different from
that of nutrition. The latter, as we have seen, may be
in some measure illustrated by the image of a vortex;
the former has been represented by the image of a series
of germs, sheathed one within another successively, and
this without any limit. This view of the subject has
been termed the doctrine of the Pre-existence of germs;
and has been designated by German writers by a term
“ Einschachtelungs-theorie” descriptive of the successive
sheathing of which I have spoken. Imitating this term,
we may call it the Theory of successive inclusion. It has
always had many adherents; and has been, perhaps, up
to the present time, the most current opinion on the
subject of generation. Cuvier inclines to this opinion*.
“Fixed forms perpetuating themselves by generation dis­
tinguish the species of living things. These forms do
not produce themselves, do not change themselves. Life
supposes them to exist already ; its flame can be lighted
only in organization previously prepared; and the most
profound meditations and the most delicate researches
terminate alike in the mystery of the pre-existence of
germs.”
21. Yet this doctrine is full of difficulty. It is, as
Cuvier says, a mysterious view of the subject ;—so mys- .
terious, that it can hardly be accepted by us, who seek
distinct conceptions as the basis of our philosophy. Can
it be true, not only that the germ of the offspring is
* Règne Animal, p. 20.
Digitized by Google
originally included in the parent, but also the germs of
its progeny, and so on without lim it:—So that each
fruitful individual contains in itself an infinite collection
of future possible individuals;—a reserve of infinite suc­
ceeding generations ? This is hard to admit. Have we
no alternative ? What is the opposite doctrine ?
22. The opposite doctrine deserves at least some
notice. It extends, to the production of a new individual,
the conception of growth by nutrition. According to
this view, we suppose propagation to take place, not as
in the view just spoken of by inclusion and extrusion,
but by assimilation and developement;—not by the
material pre-existence of germs, but by the communica­
tion of vital forces to new matter. This opinion appears
to be entertained by some of the most eminent physio­
logists of the present time. Thus, Müller says, “ The
organic force is also creative. The organic force which
resides in the whole, and on which the existence of each
part depends, has also the property of generating, from
organic matter, the parts necessary to the whole.” Life,
he adds, is not merely a harmony of the parts. On the
contrary, the harmonious action of the parts subsists
only by the influence of a force pervading all parts of
the body. “ This force exists before the harmonizing
parts, which are in fact formed by it during the deve­
lopement of the embryo.” And again; “ The creative
force exists in the germ, and creates in it the essential
force of the future animal. The germ is potentially the
whole animal: during the developement of the germ the
parts which constitute the actual whole are produced.”
23. In this view, we extend to the reproduction of
an individual the same conception of organic assimilation
which we have already arrived at, as the best notion we
can form of the force by which the reproduction and
sustentation of parts takes place. And is not such an
ATTEMPTS TO FORM IDEAS OF SEPARATE VITAL FORCES. 5 9 7
Digitized by Googk
598 PHILOSOPHY OF BIOLOGY.
extension really very consistent ? If a living thing cm
appropriate to itself extraneous matter, invest it with its
own functions, and thus put it in the stream of constant
developement, may we not conceive the developement ofa
new whole to take place in this way as well as of a
If the organized being can infuse into new matter its
vital forces, is there any contradiction in supposing this
infusion to take place in the full measure which is re­
quisite for the production of a new individual? The
force of organic assimilation is transferred to the very
matter on which it acts; it may be transferred so that
the operation of the forces produces not only an organ,
but a system of organs.
24. This identification of the forces which operate
in Nutrition and Generation may at first seem forced
and obscure, in consequence of the very strong apparent
differences of the two processes which we have already
noticed. But this defect in the doctrine is remedied by
the consideration of what may be considered as inter­
mediate cases. It is not true that, in the nutrition of
special organs, the matter is always conveyed to its ulti­
mate destination without being on its way moulded into
the form which it is finally to bear, as the embryo is
moulded into the form of the future individual. On the
contrary, there are cases in which the waste of the organs
is supplied by the growth of new ones, which are pre­
pared and formed before they are used, just as the off­
spring is prepared and formed before it is separated
from the parent. This is the case with the teeth of
many animals, and especially with the teeth of animals
of the crocodile kind. Young teeth grow near the root
of the old ones, like buds on the stem of a plant; and as
these become fully developed, they take the place of the
parent tooth when that dies and is cast away. And
these new teeth in their turn are succeeded by others
Digitized by Google
ATTEMPTS TO FORM IDEAS OF SEPARATE VITAL FORCES. 599
which germinate from them. Several generations of
such teeth, it is said as many as four, have been detected
by anatomists, visibly existing at the same time; just
as several generations of germs of individuals have been,
as we already stated, observed included in one another.
But this case of the teeth appears to show very strikingly
how insufficient such observations are to establish the
doctrine of successive inclusion, or of the pre-existence
of germs. Are we to suppose that every crocodile’s
tooth includes in itself the germs of an infinite number
of possible teeth, as in the theory of pre-existing germs,
every individual includes an infinite number of indi­
viduals ? If this be true of teeth, we must suppose that
organ to follow laws entirely different from almost every
other organ; for no one would apply to the other organs
in general such a theory of reproduction. But if such a
theory be not maintained respecting the teeth, how can
we maintain the theory of the pre-existing germs of
individuals, which has no recommendation except that
of accounting for exactly the same phenomena ?
It would seem, then, that we are, by the closest con­
sideration of the subject, led to conceive the forces by
which generation is produced as forces which vitalize
certain portions of matter, and thus prepare them for
developement according to organic forms; and thus the
conception of this Generative Force is identified with
the conception of the Force of Organic Assimilation, to
which we were led by the consideration of the process
of nutrition.
I shall not attempt to give further distinctness and
fixity to this conception of one of the vital forces; but
I shall proceed to exemplify the same analysis of life
by some remarks upon another Vital Process, and the
Forces of which it exhibits the operation.
Digitized by Google
600 PHILOSOPHY OF BIOLOGY.
Chapter V.
ATTEMPTS TO FORM IDEAS OF SEPARATE
VITAL FORCES, Continued.—
VOLUNTARY MOTION.
1. We formerly noticed the distinctions of organic
and animal functions, organic and animal forces, as one
of the most marked distinctions to which physiologists
have been led in their analysis of the vital powers. I
have now taken one of the former, the organic class of
functions, namely, nutrition; and have endeavoured to
point out in some measure the peculiar nature of the
vital forces by which this function is carried on. It may
serve to show the extent and the difficulty of this sub­
ject, if, before quitting it, I offer a few remarks sug­
gested by a function belonging to the other class, the
animal functions. This I shall briefly do with respect
to Voluntary Motion.
. 2. In the History of Physiology, I have already
related the progress of the researches by which the
organs employed in voluntary motion became known to
anatomists. It was ascertained to the satisfaction of all
physiologists, that the immediate agents in such motion
are the muscles; that the muscles are in some way con­
tracted, when the nerves convey to them the agency of
the will; and that thus the limbs are moved. It was
ascertained, also, that the nerves convey sensations from
the organs of sense inwards, so as to make these sensa­
tions the object of the animal’s consciousness. In man
and the higher animals, these impressions upon the
nerves are all conveyed to one internal organ, the brain;
and from this organ all impressions of the will appear to
proceed; and thus the brain is the center of animal life,
Digitized by Googk
towards which sensations converge, and from which voli­
tions diverge.
But this being the process, we are led to inquire how
far we can obtain any knowledge, or form any concep­
tion of the vital forces by means of which the process is
carried on. And here I have further stated in the His­
tory*, that the transfer of sensations and volitions along
the nerves was often represented as consisting in the
motion of a Nervous Fluid. I have related that the
hypothesis of such a fluid, conveying its impressions
either by motions of translation or of vibration, was
countenanced by many great names, as Newton, Haller,
and even Cuvier. But I have ventured to express my
doubt whether this hypothesis can have much value:
“ for,” I have said, “this principle cannot be mechanical,
chemical, or physical, and therefore cannot be better
understood by embodying it in a fluid. The difficulty
we have in conceiving what the force is not got rid
of by explaining the machinery by which it is trans-
fert'ed,"
3. I may add, that no succeeding biological researches
appear to have diminished the force of these considera­
tions. In modern times, attempts have repeatedly been
made to identify the nervous fluid with electricity or
galvanism. But these attempts have not been satisfac­
tory or conclusive of the truth of such an identity: and
Professor Muller probably speaks the judgment of the
most judicious physiologists, when he states it as his
opinion, after examining the evidencef, “ That the vital
actions of the nerves are not attended with the deve-
lopement of any galvanic currents which our instruments
can detect; and that the laws of action of the nervous
principle are totally different from those of electricity.”
That the powers by which the nerves are the instru-
• Hut. lnd.Sci. B. xvn. c. v. sect. 2. t Elem. PAys., p. 640.
ATTEMPTS TO FORM IDEAS OF SEPARATE VITAL FORCES. 601
Digitized by Googk
602 PHILOSOPHY OF BIOLOGY.
ments of sensation, and the muscles of motion, are vital
endowments, incapable of being expressed or explained
by any comparison with mechanical, chemical, and elec­
trical forces, is the result which we should expect to
find, judging from the whole analogy of science; and
which thus is confirmed by the history of physiology up
to the present time. We naturally, then, turn to inquire
whether such peculiar vital powers have been brought
into view with any distinctness and clearness.
4. The property by which muscles, under proper sti­
mulation, contract and produce motion, has been termed
Irritability or Contractility; the property by which
nerves are susceptible of their appropriate impressions
has been termed Sensibility. A very few words on each
of these subjects must suffice.
Irritability.—I have, in the History of Physiology*,
noticed that Glisson, a Cambridge professor, distin­
guished the Irritation of muscles as a peculiar property,
different from any merely mechanical or physical action.
I have mentioned, also, that he divides Irritation into
natural, vital, and animal; and points out, though
briefly, the graduated differences of Irritability in differ­
ent organs. Although these opinions did not at first
attract much notice, about seventy years afterwards
attention was powerfully called to this vital force, Irri­
tability, by Haller. I shall borrow Sprengel’s reflections
on this subject.
“ Hitherto men had been led to see more and more
clearly that the cause of the bodily functions, the funda­
mental power of the animal frame, is not to be sought
in the mechanism, and still less in the mixture of the
parts. In this conviction, they had had recourse partly
to the quite supersensuous principle of the Soul, partly
to the half-material principle of the Animal Spirits, in
* Hint, h u i. Sci.y B. xvii. c. v.
Digitized by Google
order to explain the bodily motions. Glisson alone saw
the necessity of assuming an Original Power in the
fibres, which, independent of the influence of the animal
spirits, should produce contraction in them. And Gor-
ter first held that this Original Power was not to be
confined to the muscles, but to be extended to all parts
of the living body.
“ But as yet the laws of this Power were not known,
nor had men come to an understanding whether it were
fully distinct from the elasticity of the parts, or by what
causes it was put in action. They had neither instituted
observations nor experiments which established its rela­
tion to other assumed forces of the body. There was
still wanting a determination of the peculiar seat of this
power, and experiments to trace its gradual differences
in different parts of the body. In addition to other
causes, the necessity of the assumption of such a power
was felt the more, in consequence of the prevalence of
Leibnitz's doctrine of the activity of matter; but it
was an occult quality, and remained so till Haller, by
numerous experiments and solid observations, placed in
a clear light the peculiarities of the powers of the ani­
mal body.”
5. Perhaps, however, Haller did more in the way of
determining experimentally the limits and details of the
application of this idea of Irritability as a peculiar attri­
bute, than in developing the Idea itself. In this way his
merits were great. As early as the year 1739, he pub­
lished his opinion upon Irritability as the cause of mus­
cular motion, which he promulgated again in 1743.
But from the year 1747 he was more attentive to the
peculiarities of Irritability, and its difference from the
effect of the nerves. In the first edition of his Phy­
siology, which appeared in 1747, he distinguished three
kinds of Force in muscles,—the Dead Force, the Innate
ATTEMPTS TO FORM IDEAS OF SEPARATE VITAL FORCES. 603
Digitized by Googk
604 PHILOSOPHY OF BIOLOGY.
Force, and the Nervous Power. The first is identical
with the elastic force of dead matter, and remains even
after death. The innate force continues only a short
time after death, and discloses itself especially by alter­
nate oscillations; the motions which arise from this are
much more lively than those which arise from mere
elasticity: they are not excited by tension, nor by pres­
sure, nor by any mechanical alteration, but only by
tation. The nervous force of the muscle is imparted to
it from without by the nerves; it preserves the irrita­
bility, which cannot long subsist without the influence
of the nervous force, but is not identical with it.
In the year 1752, Haller laid before the Society of
Gottingen the result of one hundred and ninety experi­
ments; from which it appears to what parts of the
animal system Irritability and Nervous Power belong.
These I need not enumerate. He also investigated with
care its gradations in those parts which do possess it
Thus the heart possesses it in the highest degree, and
other organs follow in their order.
6. Haller’s doctrine was, that there resides in the
muscles a peculiar vital power by which they contract,
and that this power is distinct from the attributes of the
nerves. And this doctrine has been accepted by the
best physiologists of modern times. But this distinc­
tion of the irritability of the muscles from the sensi­
bility of the nerves became somewhat clearer by giving
to the former attribute the name of Contractility. This.
accordingly was done; it is, for example, the phraseo­
logy used by Bichat. By speaking of animal sensibility
and animal c
o
n
t
r
a
c
t
i
l
i
t
y
, the passive and the active
element of the processes of animal life are clearly sepa­
rated and opposed to each other. The sensations which
we feel, and the muscular action which we exert, may
be closely and inseparably connected, yet still they are
Digitized by Google
ATTEMPTS TO FORM IDEAS OF SEPARATE VITAL FORCES. 605
clearly distinguishable. We can easily in our apprehen­
sion separate the titillation felt in the nose on taking
snuff, from the action of the muscles in sneezing; or the
perception of an object falling towards the eye, from the
exertion which shuts the eye-lid; although in these
cases the passive and active part of the process are
almost or quite inseparable in fact. And this clear
separation of the active from the passive power is some­
thing, it would seem, peculiar to the Animal Vital
Powers; it is a character by which they differ, not only
from mechanical, chemical, and all other merely physical
forces, but even from Organic Vital Powers.
7. But this difference between the Animal and the
Organic Vital Powers requires to be further insisted
upon, for it appears to have been overlooked or denied
by very eminent physiologists. For instance, Bichat
classifies the Vital- Powers as Animal Sensibility, Ani­
mal Contractility, Organic Sensibility, Organic Contrac­
tility. •
Now the view which suggests itself to us, in agree­
ment with what has been said, is this:—that though
Animal Sensibility and Animal Contractility are clearly
and certainly distinct, Organic Sensibility and Organic
Contractility are neither separable in feet nor in our
conception, but together make up a single Vital Power.
That they are not separable in fact is, indeed, acknow­
ledged by Bichat himself. “ The organic contractility,”
he says*, “ can never be separated from the sensibility
of the same kind; the reaction of the excreting tubes is
immediately connected with the action which the secreted
fluids exercise upon them: the contraction of the heart
must necessarily succeed the influx of the blood into it.”
It is not wonderful, therefore, that it should have hap­
pened, as he complains, that “ authors have by no means
* Life and Death, p. 94.
Digitized by Google
606 PHILOSOPHY OF BIOLOGY.
separated these two things, either in their consideration
or in language.” We cannot avoid asking, Are Organic
Sensibility and Organic Contractility really anything
more than two different aspects of the same thing, like
action and reaction in mechanics, which are only two
ways of considering the action which takes place at a
point; or like the positive and negative electricities,
which, as we have seen, always co-exist and correspond
to each other ?
8. But we may observe, moreover, that Bichat, by
his use of the term Contractility, includes in it powers
to which it cannot with any propriety be applied. Why
should we suppose that the vital powers of absorption,
secretion, assimilation, are of such a nature that the
name contractility may be employed to describe them ?
We have seen, in the last chapter, that the most careful
study of these powers leads us to conceive them in a
manner altogether removed from any notion of contrac­
tion. Is it not then an abuse of language which cannot
possibly lead to anything but confusion, to write thus*:
“ The insensible organic contractility is that, by virtue
of which the excreting tubes react upon their respective
fluids, the secreting organs upon the blood which flows
into them, the parts where nutrition is performed upon
the nutritive juices, and the lymphatics upon the sub­
stances which excite their open extremities.” In the
same manner he ascribesf to the peculiar sensibility of
each organ the peculiarity of its products and operations.
An increased absorption is produced by an increased
susceptibility of the “ absorbent orifices.” And thus, in
this view, each organic power may be contemplated
either as sensibility or as contractility, and may be sup­
posed to be rendered more intense by magnifying either
of these its aspects; although, in fact, neither can be
* Lifeand D
e
a
t
h
, p. 95. + l
Digitized by Google
conceived to be increased without an exactly commen­
surate increase of the other.
9. This opinion, unfounded as it thus appears to be,
that all the different organic vital powers are merely dif­
ferent kinds of Contractility or Excitability, was con­
nected with the doctrines of Brown and his followers,
which were so celebrated in the last century, that all
diseases arise from increase or from diminution of the
Vital Force. The considerations which have already
offered themselves would lead us to assent to the judg­
ment which Cuvier has pronounced upon this system.
“ The theory of excitation,” he says, “ so celebrated in
these later times by its influence upon pathology and
therapeutick, is at bottom only a modification of that, in
which, including under a common name Sensibility and
Irritability,” and we may add, applying this name to all
the Vital Powers, “ the speculator takes refuge in an
abstraction so wide, that if by it, he simplifies medicine,
he annihilates all positive physiology*.”
10. The separation of the nervous influence and the
muscular irritability, although it has led to many highly
instructive speculations, is not without its difficulties,
when viewed with reference to the Idea of Vital Power.
If the irritability of each muscle reside in the muscle
itself, how does it differ from a mere mechanical force,
as elasticity iB
ut, in point of fact, it is certain that
the muscular irritability of the animal body is not an
attribute of the muscle itself independent of its con­
nexion with the system. No muscle, or other part,
removed from the body, longpreserves it
This power cannot subsist permanently, except in con­
nexion with an organic whole. This condition peculiarly
constitutes irritability a living force: and this condition
would be satisfied by considering the force as derived
* Hist, des Sci. Nat. dqmis 1789, i. 219.
ATTEMPTS TO FORM IDEAS OF SEPARATE VITAL FORCES. 607
Digitized by Google
608 PHILOSOPHY OF BIOLOGY.
from the nervous system; but it appears that though the
nervous system has the most important influence upon
all vital actions, the muscular irritability must needs be
considered as something distinct. And thus the Irrita­
bility or Contractility of the muscle is a peculiar endow­
ment of the texture, but it is at the same time an
endowment which can only co-exist with life; it is, in
short, a peculiar Vital Power.
11. This necessity of the union of the muscle with
the whole nervous system, in order that it may possess
irritability, was the meaning of the true part of Stahl’s
psychical doctrine; and the reason why he and his ad­
herents persisted in asserting the power of the soul even
over involuntary motions. This doctrine was the source
of much controversy in later times.
“ But,” says Cuvier*, “this opposition of opinion
may be reconciled by the intimate union of the nervous
substance with the fibre and the other contractile organic
elements, and by their reciprocal action;—doctrines
which had been presented with so much probability by
physiologists of the Scotch school, but which were ele­
vated above the rank of hypotheses only by the observa­
tions of more recent times.
“The fibre does not contract by itself, but by the
influence of the nervous filaments, which are always
united with it. The change which produces the con­
traction cannot take place without the concurrence of
both these substances; and it is further necessary that it
should be occasioned each time by an exterior cause, by
a stimulant.
“ The will is one of these stimulants; but it only
excites the irritability, it does not constitute it; for in
the case of persons paralytic from apoplexy, the irrita­
bility remains, though the power of the will over it is
* Hist, det Set.Sat.depuis 1789, I. 213
Digitized by Googk
gone. Thus irritability depends in part on the nerve,
but not on the sensibility: this last is another property,
still more admirable and occult than the irritability;
but it is only one among several functions of the nervous
system. It would be an abuse of words to extend this
denomination to functions unaccompanied by perception.”
12. Supposing, then, that Contractility is established
as a peculiar Vital Power residing in the muscles, we
may ask whether we can trace with any further exact­
ness the seat and nature of this power. It would be
unsuitable to the nature of the present work to dwell
upon the anatomical discussions bearing upon this point.
I will only remark that some anatomists maintain * that
muscles are contracted by those fibres assuming a zigzag
form, which at first were straight. Others (Professor
Owen and Dr. A Thompson,) doubt the accuracy of this
observation; and conceive that the muscular fibre be­
comes shorter and thicker, but does not deviate from a
right line. We may remark that the latter kind of action
appears to be more elementary in its nature. We can
conceive a straight line thrown into a zigzag shape by
muscular contractions taking place between remote parts
of it; but it is difficult to conceive by what elementary
mode of action a straight fibre could bend itself at cer­
tain points, and at certain points only; since the ele­
mentary force must act at every point of the fibre, and
not at certain selected points.
13. A circumstance which remarkably marks the
difference between the vital force of Contractility, inhe­
rent in muscles, and any merely dead or mechanical
force, is this; that in assuming their contractile state,
muscles exert a tension which they could not themselves
support or convey if not strengthened by their vital
irritability. They are capable of raising weights by their
* Müller, Elem. ., p. 887-
VOL. I. W. P. R R
ATTEMPTS TO FORM IDEAS OF SEPARATE VITAL FORCES. 6 0 9
Digitized by Google
610 PHILOSOPHY OF BIOLOGY.
exertion, which will tear them asunder when the power
of contraction is lost by death. This has induced Cuvier
and other physiologists* to believe “that in the moment
of action, the particles that compose a fibre, not only
approach towards each other longitudinally, but that
their cohesive attraction becomes instantaneously much
greater than it was before: for without such an increase
of cohesive force, the tendency to shorten could not, as
it would appear, prevent the fibre from being torn.” We
see here the difficulty, or rather the impossibility, of
conceiving muscular contractility as a mere mechanical
force; and perhaps there is little hope of any advantage
by calling in the aid of chemical hypothesis to solve the
mechanical difficulty. Cuvier conjectures that a sudden
change in the chemical composition may thus so quickly
and powerfully augment the cohesion. But we may ask,
are not a chemical synthesis and analysis, suddenly per­
* formed by a mere act of the will, as difficult to conceive
as a sudden increase and decrease of mechanical power
directly produced by the same cause ?
14. Sensibility. The nerves are the organs and chan­
nels of sensibility. By means of them we receive our
sensations, whether of mere pleasure and pain, or of
qualities which we ascribe to external objects, as a bitter
taste, a sweet odour, a shrill sound, a red colour, a hard
or a hot object of touch. Some of these sensations are
but obscurely the objects of our consciousness; as for
example the feeling which our feet have of the ground,
or the sight which our eyes have of neighbouring objects,
when we walk in a reverie. In these cases the sensa­
tions, though obscure, exist; for they serve to balance
and guide us as we walk. In other cases, our sensations
are distinctly and directly the objects of our attention.
But our sensations, as we have already said, we
* Prichard, Vital Prin., p. 126.
Digitized by Google
ascribe as qualities to external objects. By our senses
we perceive objects, and thus our sensations become
perceptions. We have not only the sensation of round,
purple, and green, repeated and varied, but the percep­
tion of a bunch of grapes partly ripe and partly unripe.
We have not only sensations of noise and of variously-
coloured specks rapidly changing their places, but we
have perceptions, by sound and sight, of a stone rolling
down the hill and crushing the shrubs in its path. We
scarcely ever dwell upon our sensations; our thoughts
are employed upon objects. We regard the impressions
upon our nerves, not for what they are, but for what
they tell us.
But in what language do the impressions upon the
nerves thus speak to us of an external world,— of the
forms and qualities and actions of objects? How is it
that by the aid of our nervous system we become ac­
quainted not only with impressions but with things;
that we learn not only the relation of objects to us, but
to one another ?
15. It has been shown at some length in the pre­
vious Books, that the mode in which sensations are
connected in our minds so as to convey to us the
knowledge of objects and their relations, is by being con­
templated with reference to Ideas. Our sensations, con­
nected by the Idea of Space, become figures; connected
by the Idea of Time, they become causes and effects;
connected by the Idea of Resemblance, they become
individuals and kinds; connected by the Idea of Organ­
ization, they become living things. It has been shown
that without these Ideas there can be no connexion
among our sensations, and therefore no perception of
Figure, Action, Kind, or in short, of bodies under any
aspect whatever. Sensations are the rude Matter of
our perceptions; and are nothing, except so far as they
R r «
ATTEMPTS TO FORM IDEAS OF SEPARATE VITAL FORCES. 611
Digitized by Google
612 PHILOSOPHY OF BIOLOGY.
have Formgiven them by Ideas. But thus moulded by
our Ideas, Sensation becomes the source of an endless
store of important Knowledge of every possible kind.
16. But one of the most obvious uses of our percep­
tions and our knowledge is to direct our actions. It is
suitable to the condition of our being that when we
perceive a bunch of grapes, we should be able to pluck
and eat the ripe ones; that when we perceive a stone
rushing down the side of a hill, we should be able to
move so as to avoid it. And this must be done by
moving our limbs; in short, by the use of our muscles.
And thus sensation leads, not directly, but through the
medium of Ideas, to muscular contraction. I say that
sensation and muscular action are in such cases con­
nected through the medium of Ideas. For when we
proceed to pluck the grape which we see, the sensation
does not determine the motion of the hand by any neces­
sary geometrical or mechanical conditions, as an impres­
sion made upon a machine determines its motions; but
the perception leads us to stretch forth the hand to that
part of space, wherever it is, where we knorc that the
grape is, and this, not in any determinate path, but, it
may be, avoiding or removing intervening obstacles,
which we also perceive. There is in every such case a
connexion between the sensation and the resulting
action, not of a material but of a mental kind. The
cause and the effect are bound together, not by physical
but by intellectual ties.
17. And thus in such cases, between the two vital
operations, sensation and muscular action, there inter­
venes, as an intermediate step, perception or knowledge,
which is not merely vital but ideal. But this is not all;
there is still another mental part of the process which
may be readily distinguished from that which we have
described. An act of the Will,a Vol
Digitized by Googk
mind which immediately determines the action of the
muscles of the body. And thus Will intervenes between
Knowledge and Action; and the cycle of operations
which take place when animals act with reference to
external objects is this:—Sensation, Perception, Volition,
Muscular Contraction.
18. To attempt further to analyze the mental part
of this cycle does not belong to the present part of our
work. But we may remark here, as we have already
remarked in the History*, how irresistibly we are led
by physiological researches into the domain of thought
and mind. We pass from the body to the soul, from
physics to metaphysics; from biology to psychology;
from things to persons; from nouns to pronouns. I have
there noticed the manner in which Cuvier expresses this
transition by the introduction of the pronoun: “ The
impression of external objects upon the m e , the produc­
tion of a sensation, of an image, is a mystery impene­
trable to our thoughts.”
19. But to return to the merely biological part of
our speculations. We have arrived, it will be perceived,
at this result: that in animal actions there intervenes
between the two terms of Sensation and Muscular Con­
traction, an intermediate process; which may be de­
scribed as a communication to and from a center. The
center is the seat of the sentient and volent faculties,
and is of a hyperphysical nature. But the existence of
such a center as a necessary element in the functions of
the animal life is a truth which is important in biology.
This indeed may be taken as the peculiar character of
animal, as distinguished from merely organic powers.
Accordingly, it is so stated by Bichat. For although he
superfluously, as I have tried to show, introduces into
his list of vital powers an organic sensibility, he still
* Hist. Ind. Sci. B. xvii. c. v. sect. 2.
ATTEMPTS TO FORM IDEAS OF SEPARATE VITAL FORCES. 613
Digitized by Googk
614 PHILOSOPHY OF BIOLOGY.
draws the distinction of which I have spoken ; uin the
animal life, sensibility is the faculty of receiving an im­
pression plusthat of referring it to a common center'*
20. But since Sensibility and Contractility are thus
connected by reference to a common Center, we may
ask, before quitting the subject, what are the different
forms which this reference assumes. Is the connexion
always attended by the distinct steps of knowledge and
will,—by a clear act of consciousness, as in the case
which we have taken, of plucking a grape; or may these
steps become obscure, or vanish altogether ?
We need not further illustrate the former connexion.
Such actions as we have described are called voluntary
actions. In extreme cases, the mental part of the pro­
cess is obvious enough. But we may gradually pass
from these to cases in which the mental operation is more
and more obscure.
In walking, in speaking, in eating, in breathing, our
muscular exertions are directed by our sensations and
perceptions: yet in such processes, how dimly are we
conscious of perceptive and directive power ! How the
mind should be able to exercise such a power, and yet
should be scarcely or not at all conscious of its exercise,
is a very curious problem. But in all or in most of the
above instances, the solution of this problem appears to
depend upon psychological rather than biological prin­
ciples, and therefore does not belong to this place.
21. But in cases at the other extreme, the mental
part of the operation vanishes altogether. In many
animals, even after decapitation, the limbs shrink when
irritated. The motions of the iris are determined by
the influence of light on our eyes, without our being
aware of the motions. Here sensations produce motions,
but with no trace of intervening perception or will.
* Life and Dcalh> p. 84.
Digitized by Google __
The sensation appears to be reflected back from the
central element of animal life, in the form of a muscular
contraction; but in this case the sensation is not modified
or regulated by any idea. These reflected motions have
no reference to relations of space or force among sur­
rounding objects. They are blind and involuntary, like
the movements of convulsion, depending for direction
and amount only on the position and circumstances of
the limb itself with its muscles. Here the Center from
which the reflection takes place is merely animal, not
intellectual.
In this case some physiologists have doubted whether
the reflection of the sensation in the form of a muscular
contraction does really take place from the Center; and
have conceived that sensorial impressions might affect
motor nerves without any communication with the nerv­
ous Center. But on this subject we may, I conceive,
with safety adopt the decision of Professor Muller, deli­
berately given after a careful examination of the subject.
“ When impressions made by the action of external
stimuli on sensitive nerves give rise to motions in other
parts, these motions are never the result of the direct
reaction of the sensitive and motor fibres of the nerves
on each other; the irritation is conveyed by the sensi­
tive fibres to the brain and spinal cord, and is by these
communicated to the motor fibres.”
22. Thus we have two extreme cases of the con­
nexion of sensation with muscular action; in one of
which the connexion clearly is, and in the other it as
clearly is not, determined by relations of Ideas, in its
transit through the nervous Center. There is another
highly curious case standing intermediate between these
two, and extremely difficult to refer to either. I speak
of the case of Instinct.
Instinct leads to actions which are such as if they
ATTEMPTS TO FORM IDEAS OF SEPARATE VITAL FORCES. 615
Digitized by Google
616 PHILOSOPHY OF BIOLOGY.
meredetermined by Ideas. The lamb follows its mother
by instinct ; but the motions by which it does this, the
special muscular exertions, depend entirely upon the
geometrical and mechanical relations of external bodies,
as the form of the ground, and the force of the wind.
The contractions of the muscles which are requisite in
order that the creature may obey its instinct, vary with
every variation of these external conditions;—are not
determined by any rule or necessity, but by properties
of space and force. Thus the action is not governed by
sensations directly, but by sensations moulded by ideas.
And the same is the case with other cases of instinct.
The dog hunts by instinct; but he hunts certain kinds
of animals merely, thus showing that his instinct acts
according to resemblances and differences; he crosses the
field repeatedly to find the track of his prey by scent ;
thus recognizing the relations of space with reference to
the track ; he leaps, adjusting his force to the distance
and height of the leap with mechanical precision; and
thus he practically recognizes the Ideas of Resemblance,
Space, and Force.
But have animals such Ideas ? In any proper sense
in which we can speak of possessing Ideas, it appears
plain that they have not. Animals cannot, at any time,
be said properly to possess ideas, for ideas imply the
possibility of speculative knowledge.
23. But even if we allow to animals only the prac­
tical possession of ideas, we have still a great difficulty
remaining. In the case of man, his ideas are unfolded
gradually by his intercourse with the external world.
The child learns to distinguish forms and positions by a
repeated and incessant use of his hands and eyes ; he
learns to walk, to run, to leap, by slow and laborious
degrees; he distinguishes one man from another, and
one animal from another, only after repeated mistakes.
Digitized by Google
Nor can we conceive this to be otherwise. How should
the child know at once what muscles he is to exert in
order to touch with his hand a certain visible object?
How should he know what muscles to exert that he may
stand and not fall, till he has tried often? How should
he learn to direct his attention to the differences of
different faces and persons, till he is roused by some
memory, or hope which implies memory? It seems to
us as if the sensations could not, without considerable
practice, be rightly referred to Ideas of Space, Force,
Resemblance, and the like.
Yet that which thus appears impossible, is in fact
done by animals. The lamb almost immediately after its
birth follows its mother, accommodating the actions of
its muscles to the form of the ground. The chick, just
escaped from the shell, picks up a minute insect, directing
its beak with the greatest accuracy. Even the human
infant seeks the breast and exerts its muscles in sucking,
almost as soon as it is born. Hence, then, we see that
Instinct produces at once actions regulated by Ideas, or,
at least, which take place asif they we
Ideas; although the Ideas cannot have been developed
by exercise, and only appear to exist so far as such
actions are concerned.
24. The term Instinct may properly be opposed to In­
sight. The former implies an inward principle of action,
implanted within a creature and practically impelling it,
but not capable of being developed into a subject of con­
templation. While the instinctive actions of animals are
directed by such a principle, the deliberate actions of
man are governed by insight: he can contemplate the
ideal relations on which the result of his action depends.
He can in his mind map the path he will follow, and
estimate the force he will exert, and class the objects he
has to deal with, and determine his actions by the rela­
ATTEMPTS TO FORM IDEAS OF SEPARATE VITAL FORCES. Cl7
Digitized by Googk
618 PHILOSOPHY OF BIOLOGY.
tions wich he thus has present to his mind. He thus
possesses Ideas not only practically, but speculatively.
And knowing that the Ideas by which he commonly di­
rects his actions, Space, Cause, Resemblance, and the like,
have been developed to that degree of clearness in which
he possesses them by the assiduous exercise of the senses
and the mind from the earliest stage of infancy, and that
these Ideas are capable of being still further unfolded
into long trains of speculative truth, he is unable to con­
ceive the manner in which animals possess such Ideas as
their instinctive actions disclose :— Ideas which neither
require to be unfolded nor admit of unfolding; which
are adequate for practical purposes without any previous
exercise, and inadequate for speculative purposes with
whatever labour cultivated.
I have ventured to make these few remarks on In­
stinct since it may, perhaps, justly be considered as the
last province of Biology, where we reach the boundary
line of Psychology. I have now, before quitting this
subject, only one other principle to speak of.
Chapter VI.
OF TH E IDEA OF FIN A L CAUSES.
1. B y an examination of those notions which enter
into all our reasonirigs and judgments on living things, it
appeared that we conceive animal life as a vortex or cycle
of moving matter in which the form of the vortex deter­
mines the motions, and these motions again support the
form of the vortex: the stationary parts circulate the
fluids, and the fluids nourish the permanent parts. Each
portion ministers to the others, each depends upon the
other. The parts make up the whole, but the existence
Digitized by Google
IDEA OF FINAL CAUSES. 619
of the whole is essential to the preservation of the parts.
But parts existing under such conditions are organs, and
the whole is organized. This is the fundamental concep­
tion of organization. “ Organized beings,” says the phy­
siologist*, “ are composed of a number of essential and
mutually dependent parts.” “ An organized product of
nature,” says the great metaphysicianf, “ is that in which
all the parts are mutually ends and means.”
2. It will be observed that we do not content our­
selves with saying that in such a whole, all the parts are
mutually dependent. This might be true even of a me­
chanical structure; it would be easy to imagine a frame­
work in which each part should be necessary to the
support of each of the others; for example, an arch of
several stones. But in such a structure, the parts have
no properties which they derive from the whole. They
are beams or stones when separate; they are no more
when joined. But the same is not the case in an
organized whole. The limb of an animal separated from
the body, loses the properties of a limb, and soon ceases
to retain even its form.
3. Nor do we content ourselves with saying that the
parts are mutually causes and effects. This is the case
in machinery. In a clock, the pendulum by means of
the escapement causes the descent of the weight, the
weight by the same escapement keeps up the motion of
the pendulum. But things of this kind may happen by
accident. Stones slide from a rock down the side of a
hill and cause it to be smooth; the smoothness of the
slope causes stones still to slide. Yet no one would call
such a slide an organized system. The system is organ­
ized, when the effects which take place among the parts
are essential to our conception qf the w h o le when the
whole would not be a whole, nor the parts, parts, except
* Müller, Eiern., p. 18. + Kant, Urlhetltkraft, p 296.
Digitized by Google
620 PHILOSOPHY OF BIOLOGY.
these effects were produced; when the effects not only
happen in fact, but are included in the idea of the object;
when they are not only seen, but foreseen; not only ex­
pected, but intended: in short when, instead of being
causes and effects, they are ea
nd me
termed in the above definition.
Thus we necessarily include, in our Idea of Organi­
: zation, the notion of an End, a Purpose, a Design; or, to
\ use another phrase which has been peculiarly appro­
! priated in this case, a Final Cause. This idea of a Final
1Cause is an essential condition in order to the pursuing
our researches respecting organized bodies. '
4. This Idea of Final Cause is not deduced from the
phenomena by reasoning, but is assumed as the only con­
dition under which we can reason on such subjects at all.
We do not deduce the Idea of Space, or Time, or effi­
cient Cause from the phenomena about us, but necessarily
look at phenomena as subordinate to these Ideas from
the beginning of our reasoning. It is true, our ideas of
relations of Space, and Time, and Force, may become
much more clear by our familiarizing ourselves with par­
ticular phenomena: but still, the Fundamental Ideas are
not generated but unfolded; not extracted from the
external world, but evolved from the world within. In
like manner, in the contemplation of organic structures,
we consider each part as subservient to some use, and we
cannot study the structure as organic without such a
conception. This notion of adaptation,—this Idea of an
End,—may become much more clear and impressive by
seeing it exemplified in particular cases. But still,
though suggested and evoked by special cases, it is not
furnished by them. If it be not supplied by the mind
itself, it can never be logically deduced from the pheno­
mena. It is not a portion of the facts which we study,
but it is a principle which connects, includes, and renders
Digitized by Googk
IDEA OF FINAL CAUSES. 621
them intelligible; as our other Fundamental Ideas do
the classes of facts to which they respectively apply.
5. This has already been confirmed by reference to
fact; in the History ofPhysiology, I have shown that those
who studied the structure of animals were irresistibly led
to the conviction that the parts of this structure have
each its end or purpose;— that each member and organ
not merely produces a certain effect or answers a certain
use, hut is so framed as to impress us with the persuasion
that it was constructedfo r that use:—that it was intended
to produce the effect. It was there seen that this per­
suasion was repeatedly expressed in the most emphatic
manner by Galen;—that it directed the researches and
led to the discoveries of Harvey;—that it has always
been dwelt upon as a favourite contemplation, and fol­
lowed as a certain guide, by the best anatomists;—and
that it is inculcated by the physiologists of the profound-
est views and most extensive knowledge of our own time.
All these persons have deemed it a most certain and im­
portant principle of physiology, that in every organized
structure, plant or animal, each intelligible part has its
allotted office:—each organ is designed for its appropriate
function:—that nature, in these cases, produces nothing
in vain: that, in short, each portion of the whole arrange­
ment has its final cause; an end to which it is adapted,
and in this end, the reason that it is where and what
it is.
6. This Notion of Design in organized bodies must, I
say, be supplied by the student of organization out of
his own mind: a truth which will become clearer if
we attend to the most conspicuous and acknowledged
instances of design. The structure of the eye, in which
the parts are curiously adjusted so as to produce a distinct
image on the retina, as in an optical instrument;—the
trochlear muscle of the eye, in which the tendon passes
Digitized by Googk
622 PHILOSOPHY OF BIOLOGY.
round a support and turns back, like a rope round a
pulley;—the prospective contrivances for the preservation
of animals, provided long before they are wanted, as the
milk of the mother, the teeth of the child, the eyes and
lungs of the foetus:—these arrangements, and innumer­
able others, call up in us a persuasion that Design has
entered into the plan of animal form and progress. And
if we bring in our minds this conception of Design, nothing
can more fully square with and fit it, than such instances
as these. But if we did not already possess the Idea of
Design;—if we had not had our notion of mechanical
contrivance awakened by inspection of optical instru­
ments, or pulleys, or in some other way;—if we had
never been conscious ourselves of providing for the
future;—if this were the case, we could not recognize
contrivance and prospectiveness in such instances as we
have referred to. The facts are, indeed, admirably in
accordance with these conceptions, when the two are
brought together: but the facts and the conceptions
come together from different quarters—from without
and from within.
7. We may further illustrate this point by referring
to the relations of travellers who tell us that when con­
summate examples of human mechanical contrivance
have been set before savages, they have appeared inca­
pable of apprehending them as proofs of design. This
shows that in such cases the Idea of Design had not
been developed in the minds of the people who were
thus unintelligent: but it no more proves that such an
idea does not naturally and necessarily arise, in the pro­
gress of men’s minds, than the confused manner in
which the same savages apprehend the relations of space,
or number, or cause, proves that these ideas do not
naturally belong to their intellects. All men have these
ideas; and it is because they cannot help referring their
Digitized by Googk
IDEA OP PINAL CAUSES. 023
sensations to such ideas, that they apprehend the world
as existing in time and space, and as a series of causes
and effects. It would be very erroneous to say that the
belief of such truths is obtained by logical reasoning
from facts. And in like manner we cannot logically
deduce design from the contemplation of organic struc­
tures; although it is impossible for us, when the facts
are clearly before us, not to find a reference to design
operating in our minds.
8. Again; the evidence of the* doctrine of Final
Causes as a fundamental principle of Biology may be
obscured and weakened in some minds by the constant
habit of viewing this doctrine with suspicion as unphi­
losophical and at variance with morphology. By che­
rishing such views, it is probable that many persons,
physiologists and others, have gradually brought them­
selves to suppose that many or most of the arrange­
ments which are familiarly adduced as instances of design
may be accounted for, or explained away;—that there is
a certain degree of prejudice and narrowness of compre­
hension in that lively admiration of the adaptation of
means to ends which common minds derive from the
spectacle of organic arrangements. And yet, even in
persons accustomed to these views, the strong and natu­
ral influence of the Idea of a Final Cause, the spon­
taneous recognition of the relation of means to an end
as the assumption which makes organic arrangements
intelligible, breaks forth when we bring before them a
new case, with regard to which their genuine convictions
have not yet been modified by their intellectual habits.
I will offer, as an example which may serve to illustrate
this, the discoveries recently made with regard to the
process of suckling in the kangaroo. In the case of this,
as of other pouched animals, the young animal is re­
moved, while very small and imperfectly formed, from
Digitized by Google
624 PHILOSOPHY OF BIOLOGY.
the womb to the pouch, in which the teats are, and is
there placed with its lips against one of the nipples. But
the young animal taken altogether is not so large as
the nipple, and is therefore incapable of sucking after
the manner of common mammals. Here is a difficulty:
how is it overcome ?—By an appropriate contrivance: the
nipple, which in common mammals is not furnished with
any muscle, is in the kangaroo provided with a powerful
extrusory muscle by which the mother can inject the
milk into the mouth of her offspring. And again; in
order to give attachment to this muscle there is a bone
which is not found in animals of other kinds. But this
mode of solving the problem of suckling so small a
creature introduces another difficulty. If the milk is
injected into the mouth of the young one, without any
action of its own muscles, what is to prevent the fluid
entering the windpipe and producing suffocation ? How
is this danger avoided?—By another appropriate con­
trivance : there is a funnel in the back of the throat by
which the air passage is completely separated from the
passage for nutriment, and the injected milk passes in a
divided stream on each side of the larynx to the oeso­
phagus*. And as if to show that this apparatus is
really formed with a view to the wants of the young
.one, the structure alters in the course of the animal’s
growth; and the funnel, no longer needed, is modified
and disappears.
With regard to this and similar examples, the remark
which I would urge is this:—that no one, however pre­
judiced or unphilosophical he may in general deem the
reference to Final Causes, can, at the first impression,
help regarding this curious system of arrangement as
the means to an end. So contemplated, it becomes
significant, intelligible, admirable: without such a prin-
* Mr. Owen, in Phil. Trans., 1834, p. 348.
Digitized by Google
IDRA OF FINAL CAUSES. 6 2 5
ciple, it is an unmeaning complexity, a collection of con­
tradictions, producing an almost impossible result by a
portentous conflict of chances. The parts of this appa­
ratus cannot have produced one another; one part is in
the mother; another part in the young one: without
their harmony they could not be effective; but nothing
except design can operate to make them harmonious.
They are intended to work together; and we cannot
resist the conviction of this intention when the facts first
come before us. Perhaps there may hereafter be phy­
siologists who, tracing the gradual developement of the
parts of which we have spoken, and the analogies which
connect them with the structures of other animals, may
think that this developement, these analogies, account
for the conformation we have described; and may hence
think lightly of the explanation derived from the refer­
ence to Final Causes. Yet surely it is clear, on a calm
consideration of the subject, that the latter explanation
is not disturbed by the former; and that the observer’s
first impression, that this is “ an irrefragable evidence
of creative foresight*,” can never be obliterated; how­
ever much it may be obscured in the minds of those
who confuse this view by mixing it with others which
are utterly heterogeneous to it, and therefore cannot be
contradictory.
9. I have elsewhere f remarked how physiologists,
who thus look with suspicion and dislike upon the
introduction of Final Causes into physiology, have still
been unable to exclude from their speculations causes
of this kind. Thus Cabanis saysj, “I regard with
the great Bacon, the philosophy of Final Causes as
sterile; but I have elsewhere acknowledged that it was
* Mr. Owen, in Phil. Trans., 1834, p. 349.
t Bridgewater Treatise, p. 352.
X Rapports du Physique et dn Moral, i. 299.
VOL. I. W. P. S s
Digitized by Google
0 2 6 PHILOSOPHY OF BIOLOGY.
very difficult for the most cautious man never to have
recourse to them in his explanations.” Accordingly, he
says, “ The partisans of Final Causes nowhere find argu­
ments so strong in favour of their way of looking at
nature as in the laws which preside and the circum­
stances of all kinds which concur in the reproduction of
living races. In no case do the means employed appear
so clearly relative to the end.” And it would be easy
to find similar acknowledgments, express or virtual, in
other writers of the same kind. Thus Bichat, after
noting the difference between the organic sensibility by
which the organs are made to perform their offices, and
the animal sensibility of which the nervous center is the
seat, says*, “No doubt it will be asked, — that is,
as we shall see, for what e
n
d—
“ the
life have received from nature an inferior degree of sen­
sibility only, and why they do not transmit to the brain
the impressions which they receive, while all the acts of
the animal life imply this transmission ? The reason is
simply this, that all the phenomena which establish our
connexions with surrounding objects ought to be, and are
in fact, under the influence of the will; while all those
which serve for the purpose of assimilation only, escape,
and aught indeed to escape, such influence.” The rea­
son here assigned is the Final Cause; which, as Bichat
justly says, we cannot help asking for.
10. Again; I may quote from the writer last men­
tioned another remark, which shows that in the organi-
cal sciences, and in them alone, the Idea of forces as
Means acting to an End, is inevitably assumed and ac­
knowledged as of supreme authority. In Biology alone,
observes Bichatf, have we to contemplate the state of
disease. “ Physiology is to the movements of living
* Life andDeath, (trans.) p. 32.
+ Anatomxe Genérale, i. luí.
Digitized by Googk
IDF.A OF FINAL CAUSKS. 0 2 7
bodies, what astronomy, dynamics, hydraulics, &c., are
to those of inert matter: but these latter sciences have
no branches which correspond to them as pathology
corresponds to physiology. For the same reason all
notion of a medicament is repugnant to the physical
sciences. A medicament has for its object to bring the
properties of the system back to their natural type; but
the physical properties never depart from this type, and
have no need to be brought back to it: and thus there
is nothing in the physical sciences which holds the place
of therapeutick in physiology.” Or, as we might express
it otherwise, of inert forces we have no conception of
what they ought to do, except what they do. The forces
of gravity, elasticity, affinity, never act in a diseased
manner; we never conceive them as failing in their pur­
pose ; for we do not conceive them as having any pur­
pose which is answered by one mode of their action
rather than another. But with organical forces the case
is different; they are necessarily conceived as acting for
the preservation and developement of the system in
which they reside. If they do not do this, they fail, they
are deranged, diseased. They have for their object to
conform the living being to a certain type; and if they
cause or allow it to deviate from this type, their action
is distorted, morbid, contrary to the ends of nature.
And thus this conception of organized beings as sus­
ceptible of disease, implies the recognition of a state of
health, and of the organs and the vital forces as means
for preserving this normal condition. The state of
health and of perpetual developement is necessarily con­
templated as the Final Cause of the processes and
powers with which the different parts of plants and ani­
mals are endowed.
11. This Idea of a Final Cause is applicable as a
fundamental and regulative idea to our speculations
SS 2
Digitized by Googk
628 PHILOSOPHY OF BIOLOGY.
concerning organized creatures only. That there is a
purpose in many other parts of the creation, we find
abundant reason to believe, from the arrangements and
laws which prevail around us. But this persuasion is
not to be allowed to regulate and direct our reasonings
with regard to inorganic matter, of which conception
the relation of means and end forms no essential part.
In mere Physics, Final Causes, as Bacon has observed,
are not to be admitted as a principle of reasoning. But
in the organical sciences, the assumption of design and
purpose in every part of every whole, that is, the per­
vading idea of Final Cause, is the basis of sound reason­
ing and the source of true doctrine.
12. The Idea of Final Cause, of end, purpose, design,
intention, is altogether different from the Idea of Cause,
as Efficient Cause, which we formerly had to consider;
and on this account the use of the word Cause in this
phrase has been objected to. If the idea be clearly
entertained and steadily applied, the word is a question
of subordinate importance. The term Final Cause has
been long familiarly used, and appears not likely to lead
to confusion.
13. The consideration of Final Causes, both in phy­
siology and in other subjects, has at all times attracted
much attention, in consequence of its bearing upon the
belief of an Intelligent Author of the Universe. I do
not intend, in this place, to pursue the subject far in this
view: but there is one antithesis of opinion, already
noticed in the History of Physiology, on which I will
again make a few remarks*.
It has appeared to some persons that the mere aspect
of order and symmetry in the works of nature— the
contemplation of comprehensive and consistent law—is
• Hist. Ind. Sci. B. xvn. chap. viii. On the Doctrine of Final
Causes in Physiology.
Digitized by Google
IDEA OF FINAL CAUSES. G‘
29
sufficient to lead us to the conception of a design and
intelligence producing the order and carrying into effect
the law. Without here attempting to decide whether
this is true, we may discern, after what has been said,
that the conception of Design, arrived at in this manner,
is altogether different from that Idea of Design which
is suggested to us by organized bodies, and which we
describe as the doctrine of Final Causes. The regular
form of a crystal, whatever beautiful symmetry it may
exhibit, whatever general laws it may exemplify, does
not prove design in the same manner in which design is
proved by the provisions for the preservation and growth
of the seeds of plants, and of the young of animals.
The law of universal gravitation, however wide and sim­
ple, does not impress us with the belief of a purpose, as
does that propensity by which the two sexes of each
animal are brought together. If it could be shown that
the symmetrical structure of a flower results from laws
of the same kind as those which determine the regular
forms of crystals, or the motions of the planets, the dis­
covery might be very striking and important, but it
would not at all come under our idea of Final Cause.
14. Accordingly, there have been, in modern times,
two different schools of physiologists, the one proceeding
upon the idea of Final Causes, the other school seeking
in the realm of organized bodies wide laws and analogies
from which that idea is excluded. All the great biolo­
gists of preceding times, and some of the greatest of
modern times, have belonged to the former school; and
especially Cuvier, who may be considered as the head of
it. It was solely by the assiduous application of this
principle of Final Cause, as he himself constantly de­
clared, that he was enabled to make the discoveries
which have rendered his name so illustrious, and which
contain a far larger portion of important anatomical
Digitized by Google
6 3 0 PHILOSOPHY OF BIOLOGY.
and biological truth than it ever before fell to the lot of
one man to contribute to the science.
The opinions which have been put in opposition to
the principle of Final Causes have, for the most part,
been stated vaguely and ambiguously. Among the most
definite of such principles, is that which, in the History
of the subject, I have termed the Principle of metamor­
phosed and developed Symmetry, upon which has been
founded the science of Morphology.
The reality and importance of this principle are not
to be denied by us: we have shown how they are proved
by its application in various sciences, and especially in
botany. But those advocates of this principle who have
placed it in antithesis to the doctrine of Final Causes,
have, by this means, done far more injustice to their own
favourite doctrine than damage to the one which they
opposed. The adaptation of the bones of the skeleton
to the muscles, the provision of fulcrums, projecting pro­
cesses, channels, so that the motions and forces shall
be such as the needs of life require, cannot possibly
become less striking and convincing, from any discovery
of general analogies of one animal frame with another,
or of laws connecting the developement of different parts.
Whenever such laws are discovered, we can only consider
them as the means of producing that adaptation which
we so much admire. Our conviction that the Artist
works intelligently, is not destroyed, though it may be
modified and transferred, when we obtain a sight of his
tools. Our discovery of laws cannot contradict our per­
suasion of ends; our Morphology cannot prejudice our
Teleology.
15. The irresistible and constant apprehension of a
purpose in the forms and functions of animals has intro­
duced into the writings of speculators on these subjects
various forms of expression, more or less precise, more
Digitized by Googk
IDEA OF FINAL CAUSES. 631
or less figurative; as, that “animals are framed with a
view to the part which they have to play;”—that “ nature
does nothing in v a i n t h a t “ she employs the best means
for her ends;” and the like. However metaphorical
or inexact any of these phrases may be in particular,
yet taken altogether, they convey, clearly and definitely
enough to preclude any serious errour, a principle of
the most profound reality and of the highest import­
ance in the organical sciences. But some adherents of
the morphological school of which I have spoken reject,
and even ridicule, all such modes of expression. “ I
know nothing,” says M. Geoffroy Saint Hilaire, “ of ani­
mals which have to play a part in nature. I cannot
make of nature an intelligent being who does nothing in
vain; who acts by the shortest mode; who does all for
the best.” The philosophers of this school, therefore,
do not, it would seem, feel any of the admiration which
is irresistibly excited in all the rest of mankind at the
contemplation of the various and wonderful adaptations
for the preservation, the enjoyment, the continuation of
the creatures which people the globe;—at the survey of
the mechanical contrivances, the chemical agencies, the
prospective arrangements, the compensations, the minute
adaptations, the comprehensive interdependencies, which
zoology and physiology have brought into view, more
and more, the further their researches have been carried.
Yet the clear and deep-seated conviction of the reality
of these provisions, which the study of anatomy pro­
duces in its most profound and accurate cultivators,
cannot be shaken by any objections to the metaphors
or terms in which this conviction is clothed. In regard
to the Idea of a Purpose in organization, as in regard
to any other idea, we cannot fully express our meaning
by phrases borrowed from any extraneous source; but
that impossibility arises precisely from the circumstance
Digitized by Googk
6 3 2 PHILOSOPHY OF BIOLOGY.
of its being a Fundamental Idea which is inevitably
assumed in our representation of each special fact. The
same objection has been made to the idea of mechanical
force, on account of its being often expressed in meta­
phorical language; for writers have spoken of an energy,
effort, or solicitation to motion; and bodies have been
said to be animated by a force. Such language, it has
been urged, implies volition, and the act of animated
beings. But the idea of Force as distinct from mere
motion,—as the Cause of motion, or of tendency to
motion,—is not on that account less real. We endea­
vour in vain to conduct our mechanical reasonings with­
out the aid of this idea, and must express it as we can.
Just as little can we reason concerning organized beings
without assuming that each part has its function, each
function its purpose; and so far as our phrases imply
this, they will not mislead us, however inexact, or how­
ever figurative they be.
16. The doctrine of a purpose in Organization has
been sometimes called the doctrine of the Conditions of
Existence', and has been stated as teaching that each
animal must be so framed as to contain in its structure
the Conditions which its existence requires. When ex­
pressed in this manner, it has given rise to the objection,
that it merely offers an identical proposition; since no
animal can exist without such conditions. But in reality,
such expressions as those just quoted give an inade­
quate statement of the Principle of a Final Cause. For
we discover in innumerable cases, arrangements in an
animal, of which we see, indeed, that they are subser­
vient to its well being; but the nature of which we
never should have been able at all to conjecture, from
considering what was necessary to its existence, and
which strike us, no less by their unexpectedness than by
their adaptation : so far are they from being presented
Digitized by Google
IDEA OF FINAL CAUSES. 633
by any perceptible necessity. Who would venture to
say that the trochlear muscle, or the power of articulate
speech, must occur in man, because they are the neces­
sary conditions of his existence? When, indeed, the
general scheme and mode of being of an animal are
known, the expert and profound anatomist can reason
concerning the proportions and form of its various parts ,
and organs, and prove in some measure what their rela­
tions must be. We can assert, with Cuvier, that certain
forms of the viscera require certain forms of the teeth,
certain forms of the limbs, certain powers of the senses.
But in all this, the functions of self-nutrition and diges­
tion are supposed already existing as ends: and it being
taken for granted, as the only conceivable basis of rea­
soning, that the organs are means to these ends, we
may discover what modifications of these organs are
necessarily related to and connected with each other.
Instead of terming this rule of speculation merely “ the
Principle of the Conditions of Existence,” we might
term it “ the Principle of the conditions of organs as
Means adapted to animal existence as their End." And
how far this principle is from being a mere barren truism,
the extraordinary discoveries made by the great assertor
of the principle, and universally assented to by natu­
ralists, abundantly prove. The vast extinct creation
which is recalled to life in Cuvier’s great work, the
Ossemens F
o
s
s
i
l
e
s
, cannot be the consequence of a mere
identical proposition.
17. It has been objected, also, that the doctrine of
Final Causes supposes us to be acquainted with the
intentions of the Creator; which, it is insinuated, is a
most presumptuous and irrational basis for our reason­
ings. But there can be nothing presumptuous or irra­
tional in reasoning on that basis, which if we reject, we
cannot reason at all. If men really can discern, and
Digitized by Google
6 3 4 PHILOSOPHY OF BIOLOGY.
cannot help discerning, a design in certain portions of
the works of creation, this perception is the soundest
and most satisfactory ground for the convictions to which
it leads. The Ideas which we necessarily employ in the
contemplation of the world around us, afford us the
only natural means of forming any conception of the
Creator and Governor of the Universe; and if we are by
such means enabled to elevate our thoughts, however
inadequately, towards Him, where is the presumption of
doing so ? or rather, where is the wisdom of refusing to
open our minds to contemplations so animating and ele­
vating, and yet so entirely convincing? We possess the
ideas of Time and Space, under which all the objects of
the universe present themselves to us; and in virtue of
these ideas thus possessed, we believe the Creator to be
eternal and omnipotent. When we find that we, in like
manner, possess the idea of a Design in Creation, and
that with regard to ourselves, and creatures more or less
resembling ourselves, we cannot but contemplate their
constitution under this idea, we cannot abstain from
ascribing to the Creator the infinite profundity and
extent of design to which all these special instances
belong as parts of a whole.
18. I have here considered Design as manifest in
organization only: for in that field of speculation it is
forced upon us as contained in all the phenomena, and as
the only mode of our understanding them. The exist­
ence of Final Causes has often been pointed out in other
portions of the creation;—for instance, in the apparent
adaptations of the various parts of the earth and of the
solar system to each other and to organized beings. In
these provinces of speculation, however, the principle of
Final Causes is no longer the basis and guide, but the
sequel and result of our physical reasonings. If in look­
ing at the universe, we follow the widest analogies of
Digitized by Googk
IDEA OF FINAL CAUSES. 0 3 5
which we obtain a view, we see, however dimly, reason
to believe that all its laws are adapted to each other,
and intended to work together for the benefit of its
organic population, and for the general welfare of its
rational tenants. On this subject, however, not imme­
diately included in the principle of Final Causes as here
stated, I shall not dwell. I will only make this remark;
that the assertion appears to be quite unfounded, that
as science advances from point to point, final causes
recede before it, and disappear one after the other. The
principle of design changes its mode of application indeed,
but it loses none of its force. We no longer consider
particular facts as produced by special interpositions,
but we consider design as exhibited in the establishment
and adjustment of the laws by which particular facts
are produced. We do not look upon each particular
cloud as brought near us that it may drop fatness on our
fields; but the general adaptation of the laws of heat,
and air, and moisture, to the promotion of vegetation,
does not become doubtful. We do not consider the
sun as less intended to warm and vivify the tribes of
plants and animals, because we find that, instead of re­
volving round the earth as an attendant, the earth along
with other planets revolves round him. We are rather,
by the discovery of the general laws of nature, led into
a scene of wider design, of deeper contrivance, of more
comprehensive adjustments. Final causes, if they appear
driven further from us by such an extension of our
views, embrace us only with a vaster and more majestic
circuit: instead of a few threads connecting some de­
tached objects, they become a stupendous net-work,
which is wound round and round the universal frame of
things.
19. I now quit the subject of Biology, and with it the
circle of sciences depending upon separate original Ideas
Digitized by Googk
636 PHILOSOPHY OF BIOLOGY.
and permanent relations. If from the general relations
which permanently prevail and constantly recur among
the objects around us, we turn to the inquiry of what
has actually happened,—if from Science we turn to His­
tory,—we find ourselves in a new field. In this region
of speculation we can rarely obtain a complete and
scientific view of the connexion between objects and
events. The past History of Man, of the Arts, of Lan­
guages, of the Earth, of the Solar System, offers a vast
series of problems, of which perhaps not one has been
rigorously solved. Still man, as his speculative powers
unfold themselves, cannot but feel prompted and invited
to employ his thoughts even on these problems. He
cannot but wish and endeavour to understand the con­
nexion between the successive links of such chains of
events. He attempts to form a Science which shall be
applicable to each of these Histories; and thus he begins
to construct the class of sciences to which I now, in the
last place, proceed.
Digitized by Google
637
BOOK X.
TH E PH ILO SO PH Y OF P A LjETIOLOG Y.
Chapter I.
OF PALjETIOLOGICAL SCIENCES IN GENERAL.
1. I have already stated in the History of the
Sciences*, that the class of Sciences which I designate
as Palcetiological are those in which the object is to
ascend from the present state of things to a more ancient
condition, from which the present is derived by intel­
ligible causes. As conspicuous examples of this class
we may take Geology, Glossology or Comparative Phi­
lology, and Comparative Archaeology. These provinces
of knowledge might perhaps be intelligibly described as
Histories; the History of the Earth,—the History of
Languages,—the History of Arts. But these phrases
would not fully describe the sciences we have in view;
for the object to which we now suppose their investiga­
tions to be directed is, not merely to ascertain what the
series of events has been, as in the common forms of
History, but also how it has been brought about. These
sciences are to treat of causes as well as of effects. Such
researches might be termed Philosophical H istory; or,
in order to mark more distinctly that the causes of
events are the leading object of attention, ¿Etiological
History. But since it will be more convenient to de­
scribe this class of sciences by a single appellation, I
• B. xvm. Introd.
Digitized by Googk
038 THE PHILOSOPHY OF PALjETIOLOGY.
have taken the liberty of proposing to call them* the
Palcetiological Sciences.
While Palaeontologydescribes the beings which hav
lived in former ages without investigating their causes,
and ¿Etiology treats of causes without distinguishing
historical from mechanical causation; Palcetiology is a
combination of the two sciences; exploring, by means
of the second, the phenomena presented by the first.
The portions of knowledge which I include in this term
are palaeontological aetiological sciences.
2. All these sciences are connected by this bond;—
that they all endeavour to ascend to a past state, by
considering what is the present state of things, and what
are the causes of change. Geology examines the exist­
ing appearance of the materials which form the earth,
infers from them previous conditions, and speculates
concerning the forces by which one condition has been
made to succeed another. Another science, cultivated
with great zeal and success in modern times, compares
the languages of different countries and nations, and by
an examination of their materials and structure, endea­
vours to determine their descent from one another: this
science has been termed Comparative Philology, or Eth­
nography ; and by the French, Linguistique, a word
which we might imitate in order to have a single name
for the science, but the Greek derivative Glossology ap­
pears to be more convenient in its form. The progress
of the Arts (Architecture and the like);—how one stage
of the culture produced another; and how far we can
• A philological writer, in a very interesting work, (Mr. Donaldson,
in his New Cratylus, p. 12) expresses his dislike of this word, and
suggests that I must mean palce-cetiological. I think the word is more
likely to obtain currency in the more compact and euphonious form in
which I have used it. It has been adopted by Mr. Winning, in his
Manual of Comparative Philology, and more recently, by other writers.
Digitized by Google
trace their maturest and most complete condition to their
earliest form in various nations;—are problems of great
interest belonging to another subject, which we may for
the present term Comparative Archaeology. I have
already noticed, in the Hh
ow the res
into the origin of natural objects, and those relating to
works of art, pass by slight gradations into each other;
how the examination of the changes which have affected
an ancient temple or fortress, harbour or river, may con­
cern alike the geologist and the antiquary. Cuvier’s
assertion that the geologist is an antiquary of a new
order, is perfectly correct, for both are palaetiologists.
3. We are very far from having exhausted, by this
enumeration, the class of sciences which are thus con­
, nected. We may easily point out many other subjects
| of speculation of the same kind. As we may look back
i towards the first condition of our planet, we may in like
I manner turn our thoughts towards the first condition of
i the solar system, and try whether we can discern any
1 traces of an order of things antecedent to that which is
now established; and if we find, as some great mathe­
maticians have conceived, indications of an earlier state
in which the planets were not yet gathered into their
present forms, we have, in the pursuit of this train of
research, a palaetiological portion of Astronomy. Again,
as we may inquire how languages, and how man, have
been diffused over the earth’s surface from place to
place, we may make the like inquiry with regard to the
races of plants and animals, founding our inferences
upon the existing geographical distribution of the animal
and vegetable kingdoms: and thus the Geography of
Plants and of Animals also becomes a portion of Palae-
tiology. Again, as we can in some measure trace the
progress of Arts from nation to nation and from age
• B. xvi ii. Introd.
OF PAL-aSTIOLOOICAL SCIENCES IN GENERAL. 6 3 9
Digitized by Google
6 4 0 THE PHILOSOPHY OF PALiETIOLOGY.
to age, we can also pursue a similar investigation with
respect to the progress of Mythology, of Poetry, of
Government, of Law. Thus the philosophical history of
the human race, viewed with reference to these subjects,
if it can give rise to knowledge so exact as to be pro­
perly called Science, will supply sciences belonging to
the class I am now to consider.
4. It is not an arbitrary and useless proceeding to
construct such a Class of sciences. For wide and various
as their subjects are, it will be found that they have all
certain principles, maxims, and rules of procedure in
common; and thus may reflect light upon each other
by being treated of together. Indeed it will, I trust,
appear, that we may by such a juxtaposition of different
speculations, obtain most salutary lessons. And ques­
tions, which, when viewed as they first present them­
selves under the aspect of a special science, disturb and
alarm men’s minds, may perhaps be contemplated more
calmly, as well as more clearly, when they are considered
as general problems of palaetiology.
5. It will at once occur to the reader that, if we
include in the circuit of our classification such subjects
as have been mentioned,—politics and law, mythology
and poetry,—we are travelling very far beyond the ma­
terial sciences within whose limits we at the outset pro­
posed to confine our discussion of principles. But we
shall remain faithful to our original plan; and for that
purpose shall confine ourselves, in this work, to those
palsetiological sciences which deal with material things.
It is true, that the general principles and maxims which
regulate these sciences apply also to investigations of a
parallel kind respecting the products which result from
man’s imaginative and social endowments. But although
there may be a similarity in the general form of such
portions of knowledge, their materials are so different
Digitized by Google
from those with which we have been hitherto dealing,
that we cannot hope to take them into our present
account with any profit. Language, Government, Law,
Poetry, Art, embrace a number of peculiar Fundamental
Ideas, hitherto not touched upon in the disquisitions in
which we have been engaged; and most of them involved
in far greater perplexity and ambiguity, the subject of
controversies far more vehement, than the Ideas we have
hitherto been examining. We must therefore avoid
resting any part of our philosophy upon sciences, or
supposed, sciences, which treat of such subjects. To
attend to this caution, is the only way in which we can
secure the advantage we proposed to ourselves at the
outset, of taking, as the basis of our speculations, none
but systems of undisputed truths, clearly understood and
expressed*. We have already said that we must, know­
ingly and voluntarily, resign that livelier and warmer
interest which doctrines on subjects of Polity or Art
possess, and content ourselves with the cold truths of
the material sciences, in order that we may avoid having
the very foundations of our philosophy involved in con­
troversy, doubt, and obscurity.
6. We may remark, however, that the necessity of
rejecting from our survey a large portion of the researches
which the general notion of Palaetiology includes, sug­
gests one consideration which adds to the interest of
our task. We began our inquiry with the trust that
any sound views which we should be able to obtain
respecting the nature of Truth in the physical sciences,
and the mode of discovering it, must also tend to throw
light upon the nature and prospects of knowledge of
all other kinds;— must be useful to us in moral, poli­
tical, and philological researches. We stated this as a
confident anticipation; and the evidence of the justice
* Sec Vol. i. p. 8.
VOL. I. W. P. T T
OF PAL/ETIOLOGICAL SCIENCES IN GENERAL. 641
Digitized by Googk
G42 PHILOSOPHY OF PALÆTIOLOGY.
of our belief already begins to appear. We have seen,
in the last Book, that biology leads us to psychology,
if we choose to follow the path; and thus the passage
from the material to the immaterial has already un­
folded itself at one point; and we now perceive that
there are several large provinces of speculation which
concern subjects belonging to man’s immaterial nature,
and which are governed by the same laws as sciences
altogether physical. It is not our business here to dwell
on the prospects which our philosophy thus opens to our
contemplation; but we may allow ourselves, in this last
stage of our pilgrimage among the foundations of the
physical sciences, to be cheered and animated by the ray
that thus beams upon us, however dimly, from a higher
and brighter region.
But in our reasonings and examples we shall mainly
confine ourselves to the physical sciences; and for the
most part to Geology, which in the History I have put
forwards as the best representative of the Palaetiological
Sciences.
Chapter II.
OF THE THREE MEMBERS OF A PALASTIO-
LOGICAL SCIENCE.
1. Divisions ofsuch Sciences.—In each of the Sciences
of this class we consider some particular order of pheno­
mena now existing:—from our knowledge of the causes
of change among such phenomena, we endeavour to infer
the causes which have made this order of things what it
is:—we ascend in this manner to some previous stage
of such phenomena;—and from that, by a similar course
of inference, to a still earlier stage, and to its causes.
Digitized by Google
Hence it will be seen that each such science will consist
of two parts,—the knowledge of the Phenomena, and the
knowledge of their Causes. And such a division is, in
fact, generally recognized in such sciences: thus we have
History, and the Philosophy of History; we have Com­
parison of Languages, and the Theories of the Origin and
Progress of Language; we have Descriptive Geology,
and Theoretical or Physical Geology. In all these cases,
the relation between the two parts in these several
provinces of knowledge is nearly the same; and it may,
on some occasions at least, be useful to express the dis­
tinction in a uniform or general manner. The investiga­
tion of causes has been termed Aetiology by philosophical
writers, and this term we may use, in contradistinction
to the mere Phenomenology of each such department of
knowledge. And thus we should have Phenomenal Geo­
logy and ¿Etiological Geology, for the two divisions of
the science which we have above termed Descriptive
and Theoretical Geology.
2. The Study of Causes.—But our knowledge respect­
ing the causes which actually have produced any order of
phenomena must be arrived at by ascertaining what the
causes of change in such matters can do. In order to
learn, for example, what share earthquakes, and volcanoes,
and the beating of the ocean against its shores, ought to
have in our Theory of Geology, we must make out what
effects these agents of change are able to produce. And
this must be done, not hastily, or unsystematically, but
in a careful and connected manner; in short, this study of
the causes of change in each order of phenomena must
become a distinct body of Science, which must include a
large amount of knowledge, both comprehensive and
precise, before it can be applied to the construction of a
theory. We must have an ./Etiology corresponding to
each order of phenomena. .
T T 2
MEMBERS OF A PALA5TIOLOGICAL SCIENCE. 643
Digitized by Googk
6 4 4 PHILOSOPHY OF PALÆTIOLOGY.
3. Mtiology.
—In the History of Geology, I have
spoken of the necessity for such an .¿Etiology with regard
to geological phenomena: this necessity I have compared
with that which, at the time of Kepler, required the
formation of a separate science of Dynamics, (the doc­
trine of the causes of motion,) before Physical Astronomy
could grow out of Phenomenal Astronomy. In pursuance
of this analogy, I have there given the name of Geological
Dynamics to the science which treats of the causes of
geological change in general. But, as I have there inti­
mated, in a large portion of the subject the changes are
so utterly different in their nature from any modification
of motion, that the term Dynamics, so applied, sounds
harsh and strange. For in this science we have to treat,
not only of the subterraneous forces by which parts ofthe
earth’s crust are shaken, elevated, or ruptured, but also
of the causes which may change the climate of a portion
of the earth’s surface, making a country hotter or colder
than in former ages; again, we have to treat of the
causes which modify the forms and habits of animals
and vegetables, and of the extent to which the effects of
such causes can proceed; whether, for instance, they can
extinguish old species and produce new. These and
other similar investigations would not be naturally in­
cluded in the notion of Dynamics; and therefore it
might perhaps be better to use the term y when
we wish to group together all those researches which
have it for their object to determine the laws of such
changes. In the same manner the Comparison and
History of Languages, if it is to lead to any stable
and exact knowledge, must have appended to it an
.¿Etiology, which aims at determining the nature and
the amount of the causes which really do produce
changes in language; as colonization, conquest, the mix­
ture of races, civilization, literature, and the like. And
Digitized by Google
the same rule applies to all sciences of this class. We
shall now make a few remarks on the characteristics of
such branches of science as those to which we are led
by the above considerations.
4. Phenomenology requires Classification. Phenome­
nal Geology.—The Phenomenal portions of each science
imply Classification, for no description of a large and
varied mass of phenomena can be useful or intelligible
without classification. A representation of phenomena*
in order to answer the purposes of science, must be sys­
tematic. Accordingly, in giving the History of Descrip­
tive or Phenomenal Geology, I have called it Systematic
Geology, just as Classificatory Botany is termed Systema­
tic Botany. Moreover, as we have already seen, Clas­
sification can never be an arbitrary process, but always
implies some natural connexion among the objects of
the same class; for if this connexion did not exist, the
classes could not be made the subjects of any true
assertion. Yet though the classes of phenomena which
our system acknowledges must be such as already exist
in nature, the discovery of these classes is, for the most
part, very far from obvious or easy. To detect the true
principles of natural classes, and to select marks by
which these may be recognized, are steps which require
genius and good fortune, and which fall to the lot
only of the most eminent persons in each science. In
the History, I have pointed out Werner, William Smith,
and Cuvisr, as the three great authors of Systematic
Geology of Europe. The mode of classifying the mate­
rials of the earth’s surface which was found, by these
philosophers, fitted to enunciate such general facts as
came under their notice, was to consider the rocks and
other materials as divided into successive layers or strata,
superimposed one on another, and variously inclined and;
broken. The German geologist distinguished his strata
MEMBERS OF A PALJETIOLOGICAL SCIENCE. 6 4 5
Digitized by Googk
6 4 6 PHILOSOPHY OF PALZETIOLOGY.
for the most part by their mineralogical character; the
other two, by the remains of animals and plants which
the rocks contained. After a beginning had thus been
made in giving a genuine scientific form to phenomenal
geology, other steps followed in rapid succession, as has
already been related in the History*. The Classifica­
tion of the Strata was fixed by a suitable Nomenclature.
Attempts were made to apply to other countries the
order of strata which had been found to prevail in
that first studied: and in this manner it was ascer­
tained what rocks in distant regions are the synonyms,
or Equivalentsf, of each other. The knowledge thus
collected and systematized was exhibited in the form of
Geological Maps.
Moreover, among the phenomena of geology we have
Laws of nature as well as Classes. The general form of
mountain chains; the relations of the direction and incli­
nation of different chains to each other; the general
features of mineral veins, faults, and fissures; the preva­
lent characters of slaty cleavage ;-*were the subjects of
laws established, or supposed to be established, by exten­
sive observation of facts. In like manner the organic
fossils discovered in the strata were found to follow
certain laws with reference to the climate which they
appeared to have lived in ; and the evidence which they
gave of a regular zoological developement. And thus, by
the assiduous labours of many accomplished and active
philosophers, Descriptive or Phenomenal Gealogy was
carried towards a state of completeness.
5. Phenomenal Uranography.—In like manner in
other palsetiological researches, as soon as they approach
to an exact and scientific form, we find the necessity of
constructing in the first place a science of classification
and exact description, by means of which the pheno-
* Hist. !nd. Sci.y B* xvm. c. iii. + sect. 4.
Digitized by Googk
mena may be correctly represented and compared; and of
obtaining by this step a solid basis for an inquiry into the
causes which have produced them. Thus the Palaetiology
of the solar system has, in recent times, drawn the atten­
tion of speculators; and a hypothesis has been started,
that our sun and his attendant planets have been pro­
duced by the condensation of a mass of diffused matter,
such as that which constitutes the nebulous patches
which we observe in the starry heavens. But the sagest
and most enlightened astronomers have not failed to
acknowledge, that to verify or to disprove this*con­
jecture, must be the work of many ages of observation
and thought. They have perceived also that the first
step of the labour requisite for the advancement of this
portion of science must be to obtain and to record the
most exact knowledge at present within our reach,
respecting the phenomena of these nebulae, with which
we thus compare our own system; and, as a necessary
element of such knowledge, they have seen the import­
ance of a classification of these objects, and of others,
such as Double Stars, of the same kind. Sir William
Herschel, who first perceived the bearing of the pheno­
mena of nebulae upon the history of the solar system,
made the observation of such objects his business, with
truly admirable zeal and skill; and in the account of
the results of his labours, gave a classification of Nebulae;
separating them into, first, Clusters qf Stars; second,
Resolvable N e b u l a e ;third, Proper N ebulaefourth
netary Nebulae; fifth, Stellar ; sixth, Nebulous
Stars*. And since, in order to obtain from these remote
appearances, any probable knowledge respecting our own
system, we must discover whether they undergo any
changes in the course of ages, he devoted himself to the
* Phil. Trans., 1786 and 1789, and Sir J. Herschcl'e Astronomy,
Art. 616.
MEMBERS OF A PALASTIOLOGICAL SCIENCE. 647
Digitized by Googk
6 4 8 PHILOSOPHY OF PALÆTJOLOGY.
task of forming a record of their number and appearance
in his own time, that thus the astronomers of succeeding
generations might have a definite and exact standard
with which to compare their observations. Still, this
task would have been executed only for that part of the
heavens which is visible in this country, if this Hippar­
chus of the Nebulae and Double Stars had not left behind
him a son who inherited all his father’s zeal and more
than his father’s knowledge. Sir John Herschel in
1833 went to the Cape of Good Hope to complete what
Sir William Herschel left wanting; and in the course of
five years observed with care all the nebulae and double
stars ofthe Southern hemisphere. This great Herschelian
Survey ofthe H
e
a
v
e
n
s
, the completion of which
noblest monument ever erected by a son to a father, must
necessarily be, to all ages, the basis of all speculations
concerning the history and origin of the solar system;
and has completed, so far as at present it can be com­
pleted, the phenomenal portion of Astronomical Palae-
tiology. .
6. Phenomenal Geography of Plants and Animals.—
Again, there is another Palaetiological Science, closely
connected with the speculations forced upon the geolo­
gist by the organic fossils which he discovers imbedded
in the strata of the earth;—namely, the Science which
has for its object the Causes of the Diffusion and Distri­
bution of the various kinds of Plants and Animals. And
the science also has for its first portion and indispensable
foundation a description and classification of the existing
phenomena. Such portions of science have recently been
cultivated with great zeal and success, under the titles of
the Geography ofPlants, and the Geography ofAnimals.
And the results of the inquiries thus undertaken have
assumed a definite and scientific form by leading to a
division of the earth's surface into a certain number of
Digitized by Google
botanical and zoological P
r
o
v
i
n,each province o
pied by its own peculiar vegetable and animal population.
We find, too, in the course of these investigations, various
general laws of the phenomena offered to our notice;
such, for instance, as this:—that the difference of the
animals originally occupying each province, which is clear
and entire for the higher orders of animals and plants,
becomes more doubtful and indistinct when we descend
to the lower kinds of organizations; as Infusoria and
Zoophytes* in the animal kingdom, Grasses and Mosses
among vegetables. Again, other laws discovered by
those who have studied the geography of plants are
these:—that countries separated from each other by
wide tracts of sea, as the opposite shores of the Medi­
terranean, the islands of the Indian and Pacific Oceans,
have usually much that is common in their vegetation:
—and again, that in parallel climates, analogous tribes
replace each other. It would be easy to adduce other
laws, but those already stated may serve to show the
great extent of the portions of knowledge which have
just been mentioned, even considered as merely Sciences
of Phenomena.
7. Phenomenal Glossology.—It is not my purpose in
the present work to borrow my leading illutsrations from
any portions of knowledge but those which are concerned
with the study of material nature; and I shall, therefore,
not dwell upon a branch of research, singularly interest­
ing, and closely connected with the one just mentioned,
but dealing with relations of thought rather than of
things;—I mean the Palaetiology of Language;—the
theory, so far as the facts enable us to form a theory, of
the causes which have led to the resemblances and differ­
ences of human speech in various regions and various
* rricliarcl, Researches irilo (he Physical History of Mankind,
i. 55, 28.
MEMBERS OF A PALA3TIOLOGICAL SCIENCE. G49
Digitized by Google
650 PHILOSOPHY OF PAL.3STI0LOGY.
ages. This, indeed, would be only a portion of the study
of the history and origin of the diflusion of animals, if we
were to include manamong the animals whose disp
we thus investigate; for language is one of the most
clear and imperishable records of the early events in the
career of the human race. But the peculiar nature of
the faculty of speech, and the ideas which the use of it
involves, make it proper to treat Glossology as a distinct
science. And of this science, the first part must neces­
sarily be, as in the other sciences of this order, a classi­
fication and comparison of languages governed in many
respects by the same rules, and presenting the same diffi­
culties, as other sciences of classification. Such, accord­
ingly, has been the procedure of the most philosophical
glossologists. They have been led to throw the languages
of the earth into certain large classes or Families, ac­
cording to various kinds of resemblance; as the Semitic
Family, to which belong Hebrew, Arabic, Chaldean,
Syrian, Phoenician, Ethiopian, and the like; the Indo-
European, which includes Sanskrit, Persian, Greek, Latin,
and German; the Monosyllabic languages, Chinese, Tibe­
tan, Birman, Siamese; the Polysynthetic languages, a
class including most of the North-American Indian
dialects; and others. And this work of classification
has been the result of the labour and study of many very
profound linguists, and has advanced gradually from step
to step. Thus the Indo-European Family was first formed
on an observation of the coincidences between Sanskrit,
Greek, and Latin; but it was soon found to include the
Teutonic languages, and more recently Dr. Prichard*
has shown beyond doubt that the Celtic must be in­
cluded in the same Family. Other general resemblances
and differences of languages have been marked by appro­
* Dr. Prichard, On theEastern Origin Ike Celti
1831.
Digitized by Googk
priate terms: thus August vou Schlegel has denominated
them synthetical and analytical, according as they form
their conjugations and declensions by auxiliary verbs and
prepositions, or by changes in the word itself: and the
polysynthetic languages are so named by M. Duponceau,
in consequence of their still more complex mode of
inflexion. Nor are there wanting, in this science also,
general laws of phenomena; such, for instance, is the
curious rule of the interchange of consonants in the
cognate words of Greek, Gothic, and German, which has
been discovered by James Grimm. All these remark­
able portions of knowledge, and the great works which
have appeared on Glossology, such, for example, as the
Mithridates of Adelung and Vater, contain, for their
largest, and hitherto probably their most valuable part,
the phenomenal portion of the science, the comparison
of languages as they now are. And beyond all dpubt,
until we have brought this comparative philology to a
considerable degree of completeness, all our speculations
respecting the causes which have operated to produce
the languages of the earth must be idle and unsubstantial
dreams.
Thus in all Palaetiological Sciences, in all attempts to
trace back the history and discover the origin of the
present state of things, the portion of the science which
must first be formed is that which classifies the pheno­
mena, and discovers general laws prevailing among them.
When this work is performed, and not till then, we
may begin to speculate successfully concerning causes,
and to make some progress in our attempts to go back
to an origin. We must have a Phenomenal science pre­
paratory to each Etiologicalone.
8. The Study of Phenomena leads to Theory.—As
we have just said, we cannot, in any subject, speculate
successfully concerning the causes of the present state of
MEMBERS OF A PALAJTIOLOGICAL SCIENCE. 651
Digitized by Google
652 PHILOSOPHY OF PALÆTIOLOGY.
things, till we have obtained a tolerably complete and
systematic view of the phenotiiena. Yet in reality men
have not in any instance waited for this completeness
and system in their knowledge of facts before they have
begun to form theories. Nor was it natural, consider­
ing the speculative propensities of the human mind, and
how incessantly it is endeavouring to apply the Idea of
Cause, that it should thus restrain itself. I have already
noticed this in the History of Geology. “ While we
have been giving an account,” it is there said, “ of the
objects with which Descriptive Geology is occupied, it
must have been felt how difficult it is, in contemplating
such facts, to confine ourselves to description and classi­
fication. Conjectures and reasonings respecting the causes
of the phenomena force themselves upon us at every
step; and even influence our classification and nomen­
clature. Our Descriptive Geology impels us to construct
a Physical Geology.” And the same is the case with
joegard to the other subjects which I have mentioned.
The mere consideration of the different degrees of con­
densation of different nebulae led Herschel and Laplace
to contemplate the hypothesis that our solar system is
a condensed nebula. Immediately upon the division of
the earth’s surface into botanical and zoological pro­
vinces, and even at an earlier period, the opposite hypo­
theses of the origin of all the animals of each kind from
a single pair, and of their original diffusion all over the
earth, were under discussion. And the consideration of
the families of languages irresistibly led to speculations
concerning the families of the earliest human inhabit­
ants of the earth. In all cases the contemplation of a
very few phenomena, the discovery of a very few steps
in the history, made men wish for and attempt to form
a theory of the history from the very beginning of things.
9. Nosound Theory without .—But though
Digitized by Google
MEMBERS OF A FALiETIOLOGlCAI. SCIENCE. 6 5 3
man is thus impelled by the natural propensities of his
intellect to trace each order of things to its causes, he
does not at first discern the only sure way of obtaining
such knowledge: he does not suspect how much labour
and how much method are requisite for success in this
undertaking: he is not aware that for each order of
phenomena he must construct, by the accumulated re­
sults of multiplied observation and distinct thought, a
separate .¡Etiology. Thus, as I have elsewhere remarked*,
when men had for the first time become acquainted
with some of the leading phenomena of Geology, and
had proceeded to speculate concerning the past changes
and revolutions by which such results had been pro­
duced, they forthwith supposed themselves able to judge
what would be the effects of any of the obvious agents
of change, as water or volcanic fire. It did not at first
occur to them to suspect that their common and ex­
temporaneous judgment on such points was by no means
sufficient for sound knowledge. They did not foresee
that, before they could determine what share these or
any other causes had had in producing the present con­
dition of the earth, they must create a special science
whose object should be to estimate the general laws and
effects of such assumed causes;—that before they could
obtain any sound Geological Theory, they must care-
full cultivate Geological .¡Etiology.
The same disposition to proceed immediately from
the facts to the theory, without constructing, as an inter­
mediate step, a science of Causes, might be pointed out
in the other sciences of this order. But in all of them
this errour has been corrected by the failures to which
it led. It soon appeared, for instance, that a more
careful inquiry into the effects which climate, food, habit
and circumstances can produce in animals, was requisite
• * Hist. Ind. S c i 13. xvm. c. v. sect. 1. .
Digitized by Googk
654 PHILOSOPHY OF PALjETIOLOGY.
in order to determine how the diversities of animals in
different countries have originated. The .Etiology of
Animal Life (if we may be allowed to give this name to
that study of such causes of change which is at present
so zealously cultivated, and which yet has no distinctive
designation, except so far as it coincides with the Or­
ganic Geological Dynamics of our History), is now per­
ceived to be a necessary portion of all attempts to
construct a history of the earth and its inhabitants.
10. Cause, in P
a
l
w
t
i
o
l
o
g
y
.
—We are thus led to
template a class of sciences which are commenced with
the study of Causes. We have already considered sci­
ences which depended mainly upon the Idea of Cause,
namely, the Mechanical Sciences. But it is obvious that
the Idea of Cause in the researches now under our con­
sideration must be employed in a very different way
from that in which we applied it formerly. Force is the
cause of motion, because force at all times and under
all circumstances, if not counteracted, produces motion;
but the cause of the present condition and elevation of
the Alps, whatever it was, was manifested in a series of
events of which each happened but once, and occupied
its proper place in the series of time. The former is
mechanical, the latter historical, cause. In our present
investigations, we consider the events which we contem­
plate, of whatever order they be, as forming a chain
which is extended from the beginning of things down to
the present time; and the causes of which we now
speak are those which connect the successive links of
this chain. Every occurrence which has taken place in
the history of the solar system, or the earth, or its veget­
able and animal creation, or man, has been at the same
time effect and cause;—the effect of what preceded, the
cause of what succeeded. By being effect and cause, it
has occupied some certain portion of time; and the times
Digitized by Googk
MEMBERS OF A PALiETIOLOGICAL SCIENCE. 055
which have thus been occupied by effects and causes,
summed up and taken altogether, make up the total
of Past Time. The Past has been a series of events con­
nected by this historical causation, and the Present is
the last term of this series. The problem in the Palae-
tiological Sciences, with which we are here concerned,
is, to determine the manner in which each term is derived
from the preceding, and thus, if possible, to calculate
backwards to the origin of the series.
11. Various kinds of Cause.—Those modes by which
one term in the natural series of events is derived from
another,—the forms of historical causation,—the kinds
of connexion between the links of the infinite chain of
time,—are very various; nor need we attempt to enume­
rate them. But these kinds of causation being distin­
guished from each other, and separately studied, each
becomes the subject of a separate .¿Etiology. Thus the
causes of change in the earth’s surface, residing in the
elements, fire and water, form the main subject of Geolo­
gical .Etiology. The Etiology ofthe vegetable and animal
kingdoms investigates the causes by which the forms and
distribution of species of plants and animals are affected.
The study of causes in Glossology leads to an Etiology
of Language, which shall distinguish, analyze, and esti­
mate the causes by which certain changes are produced in
the languages of nations; in like manner we may expect
to have an Etiology of Art, which shall scrutinize the
influences by which the various forms of art have each
given birth to its successor: by which, for example,
there have been brought into being those various forms
of architecture which we term Egyptian, Doric, Ionic,
Roman, Byzantine, Romanesque, Gothic, Italian, Eliza­
bethan. It is easily seen by this slight survey how
manifold and diverse are the kinds of cause which the
Palaetiological Sciences bring under our consideration.
Digitized by Googk
656 PHILOSOPHY OF PALÆTIOLOGY.
But in each of those sciences we shall obtain solid and
complete systems of knowledge, only so far as we study,
with steady thought and careful observation, that pecu­
liar kind of cause which is appropriate to the pheno­
mena under our consideration.
12. Hypothetical Order of Palætiological Causes.—
The various kinds of historical cause are not only con­
nected with each other by their common bearing upon
the historical sciences, but they form a kind of progres­
sion which we may represent to ourselves as having
acted in succession in the hypothetical history of the
earth and its inhabitants. Thus assuming, merely as a
momentary hypothesis, the origin of the solar system
by the condensation of a nebtila, we have to contemplate,
first, the causes by which the luminous incandescent
diffused mass of which a nebula is supposed to be con­
stituted, is gradually condensed, cooled, collected into
definite masses, solidified, and each portion made to
revolve about its axis, and the whole to travel about
another body. We have no difficulty in ascribing the
globular form of each mass to the mutual attraction of
its particles : but when this form was once assumed, and
covered with a solid crust, are there, we may ask, in
the constitution of such a body, any causes at work by
which the crust might be again broken up and portions
of it displaced, and covered with other matter ? Again,
if we can thus explain the origin of the earth, can we
with like success account for the presence of the atmo­
sphere and the waters of earth and ocean ? Supposing
this done, we have then to consider by what causes such
a body could become stocked with vegetable and animal
life; for there have not been wanting persons, extra­
vagant speculators, no doubt, who have conceived that
even this event in the history of the world might be the
work of natural causes. Supposing an origin given to
Digitized by Google
life upon our earth, we have then, brought before us by
geological observations, a series of different forms of
vegetable and animal existence; occurring in different
strata, and, as the phenomena appear irresistibly to
prove, existing at successive periods: and we are com­
pelled to inquire what can have been the causes by
which the forms of each period have passed into those
of the next. We find, too, that strata, which must have
been at first horizontal and continuous, have undergone
enormous dislocations and ruptures, and we have to
consider the possible effect of aqueous and volcanic
causes to produce such changes in the earth’s crust. We
are thus led to the causes which have produced the pre­
sent state of things on the earth; and these are causes
to which we may hypothetically ascribe, not only the
form and position of the inert materials of the earth,
but also the nature and distribution of its animal and
vegetable population. Man too, no less than other
animals, is affected by the operation of such causes as
we have referred to, and must, therefore, be included in
such speculations. But man’s history only begins, where
that of other animals ends, with his mere existence.
They are stationary, he is progressive. Other species
of animals, once brought into being, continue the same
through all ages; man is changing, from age to age, his
language, his thoughts, his works. Yet even these
changes are bound together by laws of causation; and
these causes too may become objects of scientific study.
And such causes, though not to be dwelt upon now,
since we permit ourselves to found our philosophy upon
the material sciences only, must still, when treated scien­
tifically, fall within the principles of our philosophy,
and must be governed by the same general rules to
which all science is subject. And thus we are led by
a close and natural connexion, through a series of causes,
VOL. I. W. P. U
MEMBERS OF A rALZETIOLOUICAL SCIENCE. 6 5 7
Digitized by Googk
658 PHILOSOPHY OF PALÆTIOLOGY.
extending from those which regulate the imperceptible
changes of the remotest nebulae in the heavens, to those
which determine the diversities of language, the mu­
tations of art, and even the progress of civilization,
polity, and literature.
While I have been speaking of this supposed series
of events, including in its course the formation of the
earth, the introduction of animal and vegetable life, and
the revolutions by which one collection of species has
succeeded another, it must not be forgotten, that though
1 have thus hypothetically spoken of these events as
occurring by force of natural causes, this has been done
only that the true efficacy of such causes might be
brought under our consideration and made the subject
of scientific examination. It may be found, that such
occurrences as these are quite inexplicable by the aid of
any natural causes with which we are acquainted; and
thus, the result of our investigations, conducted with
strict regard to scientific principles, may be, that we
must either contemplate supernatural influences as part
of the past series of events, or declare ourselves alto­
gether unable to form this series into a connected chain.
13. Mode of Cultivating :—In Geology.—
In what manner, it may be asked, is ./Etiology, with
regard to each subject such as we have enumerated, to be
cultivated ? In order to answer this question, we must,
according to our method of proceeding, take the most
successful and complete examples which we possess of
such portions of science. But in truth, we can as yet
refer to few examples of this kind. In Geology, it is
only very recently, and principally through the example
and influence of Mr. Lyell, that the .Etiology has been
detached from the descriptive portion of the science;
and cultivated with direct attention: in other sciences
the separation has hardly yet been made. But if we
Digitized by Google
MEMBERS OF A PALJETIOLOGICAL SCIENCE. 659
examine what has already been done in Geological .¿Eti­
ology, or as in the History it is termed, Geological
Dynamics, we shall find a number of different kinds of
investigation which, by the aid of our general principles
respecting the formation of sciences, may suffice to sup­
ply very useful suggestions for .Etiology in general.
In Geological .Etiology, causes have been studied, in
many instances, by attending to their action in the phe­
nomena of the present state of things, and by inferring
from this the nature and extent of the action which they
may have exercised in former times. This has been
done, for example, by Von Hoff, Mr. Lyell, and others,
with regard to the operations of rivers, seas, springs,
glaciers, and other aqueous causes of change. Again,
the same course has been followed by the 6ame philoso­
phers with respect to volcanoes, earthquakes, and other
violent agents. Mr. Lyell has attempted to show, too,
that there take place, in our own time, not only violent
agitations, but slow motions of parts of the earth’s crust,
of the same kind and order with those which have
assisted in producing all anterior changes.
But while we thus seek instruction in the phenomena
of the present state of things, we are led to the ques­
tion, What are the limits of this “ present” period? For
instance, among the currents of lava which we trace as
part of the shores of Italy and Sicily, which shall we
select as belonging to the existing order of things ? In
going backwards in time, where shall we draw the line ?
and why at such particular point ? These questions are
important, for our estimate of the efficacy of known
causes will vary with the extent of the effects which we
ascribe to them. Hence the mode in which we group
together rocks is not only a step in geological classifica­
tion, but is also important to .¿Etiology. Thus when the
vast masses of trap rocks in the Western Isles of Scot-
U U 2
Digitized by Googk
660 PHILOSOPHY OF PALÆTIOLOGY.
land and in other countries, which had been maintained
by the Wernerians to be of aqueous origin, were, prin­
cipally by the sagacity and industry of Macculloch, iden­
tified as to their nature with the products of recent
volcanoes, the amount of effect which might justifiably
be ascribed to volcanic agency was materially extended.
In other cases, instead of observing the current
effects of our geological causes, we have to estimate the
results from what we know of the causes themselves;
as when, with Herschel, we calculate the alterations in
the temperature of the earth which astronomical changes
may possibly produce; or when, with Fourier, we try to
calculate the rate of cooling of the earth’s surface, on the
hypothesis of an incandescent central mass. In other
cases, again, we are not able to calculate the effects of
our causes rigorously, but estimate them as well as we
can, partly by physical reasonings, and partly by compa­
rison with such analogous cases as we can find in the
present state of things. Thus Mr. Lyell infers the change
of climate which would result if lapd were transferred
from the neighbourhood of the poles to that of the
equator, by reasonings on the power of land and water
to contain and communicate heat, supported by a refer­
ence to the different actual climates of places, lying
under the same latitude, but under different conditions
as to the distribution of land and water.
Thus our .Etiology is constructed partly from calcu­
lation and reasoning, partly from phenomena. But we
may observe that when we reason from phenomena to
causes, we usually do so by various steps; often ascend­
ing from phenomena to mere laws of phenomena, before
we can venture to connect the phenomenon confidently
with its cause. Thus the law of subterranean heat,
that it increases in descending below the surface, is
now well established, although the doctrine which
Digitized by Google
MEMBERS OF A PAL./ETIOLOGICAL SCIENCE. 661
ascribes this effect to a central heat is not universally
assented to.
14.—In theGeography of Plants and Animals.—
We may find in other subjects also, considerable con­
tributions towards /Etiology, though not as yet a com­
plete system of science. The /Etiology of vegetables
and animals, indeed, has been studied with great zeal in
modern times, as an essential preparative to geological
theory; for how can we decide whether any assumed
causes have produced the succession of species which we
find in the earth’s strata, except we know what effect
of this kind given causes can produce? Accordingly,
we find in Mr. Lyell’s Treatise on Geology the most
complete discussion of such questions as belong to these
subjects:—for example, the question whether species
can be transmuted into other species by the long con­
tinued influence of external causes, as climate, food,
domestication, combined with internal causes, as habits,
appetencies, progressive tendencies. We may observe,
too, that as we have brought before us the inquiry what
change difference of climate can produce in any species,
we have also the inverse problem, how far a different
developement of the species, or a different collection of
species, proves a difference of climate. In the same way,
the geologist of the present day considers the question,
whether, in virtue of causes now in action, species are
from time to time extinguished; and in like manner,
the geologists of an earlier period discussed the question,
now long completely decided, whether fossil species in
general are really extinct species.
15. In Languages.—Even with reference to the
/Etiology of language, although this branch of science
has hardly been considered separately from the glosso-
logical investigations in which it is employed or assumed
to be employed, it might perhaps be possible to point
Digitized by Googk
6 6 2 PHILOSOPHY OF PAL^TIOLOGY.
out causes or conditions of change which, being general
in their nature, must operate upon all languages alike.
Changes made for the sake of euphony when words are
modified and combined, occur in all dialects. Who can
doubt that such changes of consonants as those by which
the Greek roots become Gothic, and the Gothic, German,
have for their cause some general principle in the pro­
nunciation of each language? Again, we might attempt
to decide other questions of no small interest. Have
the terminations of verbs arisen from the accretion of
pronouns; or, on the other hand, does the modification
of a verb imply a simpler mental process than the insu­
lation of a pronoun, as Adam Smith has maintained?
Again, when the language of a nation is changed by the
invasion and permanent mixture of an enemy of different
speech, is it generally true that it is changed from a syn­
thetic to an analytical structure? I will mention only
one more of these wide and general glossological in­
quiries. Is it true, as Dr. Prichard has suggested*,
that languages have become more permanent as we
come down towards later times? May we justifiably
suppose, with him, that in the very earliest times,
nations, when they had separated from one stock, might
lose all traces of this common origin out of their lan­
guages, though retaining strong evidences of it in their
mythology, social forms, and arts, as appears to be the
case with the ancient Egyptians and the Indianst ?
Large questions of this nature cannot be treated pro­
fitably in any other way than by an assiduous study of
the most varied forms of living and dead languages.
But on the other hand, the study of languages should
be prosecuted not only by a direct comparison of one
with another, but also with a view to the formation of a
science of causes and general principles, embracing such
• Researches, u. 221. + Jb., n. 192.
Digitized by Googk
discussions as I have pointed out. It is only when such
a science has been formed, that we can hope to obtain any
solid and certain results in the Palsetiology of language;
— to determine, with any degree of substantial proof,
what is the real evidence which the wonderful faculty
of speech, under its present developements and forms,
bears to the events which have taken place in its own
history, and in the history of man since his first origin.
16. Construction of Theories.—When we have thus
obtained, with reference to any such subject as those we
have here spoken of, these two portions of science, a
Systematic Description of the Facts, and a rigorous Ana­
lysis of the Causes,—the Phenomenology and the ¿Etio­
logy of the subject,—we are prepared for the third
member which completes the science, the Theory of the
actual facts. We can then take a view of the events
which really have happened, discerning their connexion,
interpreting their evidence, supplying from the context
the parts which are unapparent. We can account for
known facts by intelligible causes, we can infer latent
facts from manifest effects, so as to obtain a distinct
insight into the whole history of events up to the present
time, and to see the last result of the whole in the pre­
sent condition of things. The term , when rigor­
ously employed in such sciences as those which we here
consider, bears nearly the sense which I have adopted:
it implies a consistent and systematic view of the actual
facts, combined with a true apprehension of their con­
nexion and causes. Thus if we speak of “a Theory of
Mount Etna,” or “ a Theory of the Paris Basin,” we
mean a connected and intelligible view of the events by
which the rocks in these localities have come into their
present condition. Undoubtedly the term Theory has
often been used in a looser sense; and men have put
forth “ Theories of the Earth'' which, instead of includ­
MEMBERS OF A PALA5TIOLOUICAL SCIENCE. 6 6 3
Digitized by Google
6 6 4 PHILOSOPHY OF PALÆTIOLOGY.
ing the whole mass of actual geological facts and their
causes, only assigned, in a vague manner, some causes
by which some few phenomena might, it was conceived,
be accounted for. Perhaps the portion of our Palaetio-
logical Sciences which we now wish to designate, would
be more generally understood if we were to describe it
as Theoretical or Philosophical History; as when we
talk of “ the Theoretical History of Architecture,” or
“the Philosophical History of Language.” And in the
same manner we might speak of the Theoretical History
of the Animal and Vegetable Kingdoms; meaning, a
distinct account of the events which have produced the
present distribution of species and families. But by
whatever phrase we describe this portion of science, it is
plain that such a Theory, such a Theoretical History,
must result from the application of causes well under­
stood to facts well ascertained. And if the term Theory
be here employed, we must recollect that it is to be un­
derstood, not in its narrower sense as opposed to facts, but
in its wider signification, as including all known facts
and differing from them only in introducing among them
principles of intelligible connexion. The Theories of
which we now speak are true Theories, precisely because
they are identical with the total system of the Facts.
17. No sound Palaetiological Theory yet extant.—It
is not to disparage the present state of science, to say
that as yet no such theory exists on any subject.
“ Theories of the Earth” have been repeatedly pub­
lished ; but when we consider that even the facts of
geology have been observed only on a small portion of
the earth’s surface, and even within those narrow bounds
very imperfectly studied, we shall be able to judge how
impossible it is that geologists should have yet obtained
a well-established Theoretical History of the changes
which have taken place in the crust of the terrestrial
Digitized by Google
MEMBERS OF A PALiETIOLOGICAL SCIENCE. 6 6 5
globe from its first origin. Accordingly, I have ventured
in my History to designate the most prominent of the
Theories which have hitherto prevailed as premature
geological theories*: and we shall soon see that geo­
logical theory has not advanced beyond a few conjec­
tures, and that its cultivators are at present mainly
occupied with a controversy in which the two extreme
hypotheses which first offer themselves to men’s minds
are opposed to each other. And if we have no theo­
retical history of the earth which merits any confidence,
still less have we any theoretical History of Language,
or of the Arts, which we can consider as satisfactory.
The Theoretical History of the Vegetable and Animal
Kingdoms is closely connected with that of the earth on
which they subsist, and must follow the fortunes of geo­
logy. And thus we may venture to say that no Palae-
tiological Science, as yet, possesses all its three members.
Indeed most of them are very far from having completed
and systematized their Phenomenology: in all, the cul­
tivation of .(Etiology is but just begun, or is not begun;
in all, the Theory must reward the exertions of future,
probably of distant, generations.
But in the mean time we may derive some instruction
from the comparison of the two antagonist hypotheses of
which I have spoken.
C h a p t e r III.
OF THE DOCTRINE OF CATASTROPHES AND
THE DOCTRINE OF UNIFORM ITY.
I. Doctrine qf Catastrophes.—I h a v e already shown,
in the History of Geology, that the attempts to frame a
theory of the earth have brought into view two com­
. • Hi*t. J
n
d
.S
e
t., B. xvm . c. vii. sect. 3.
Digitized by C 3gle
666 PHILOSOPHY OF PALÆTIOLOGY.
pletely opposite opinions:—one, which represents the
course of nature as unifoi'm-through all ag
which produce change having had the same intensity in
former times which they have at the present day;—the
other opinion, which sees, in the present condition of
things, evidences of catastrophes;—changes of a more
sweeping kind, and produced by more powerful agencies
than those which occur in recent times. Geologists
who held the latter opinion, maintained that the forces
which have elevated the Alps or the Andes to their pre­
sent height could not have been any forces which are
now in action: they pointed to vast masses of strata
hundreds of miles long, thousands of feet thick, thrown
into highly-inclined positions, fractured, dislocated,
crushed: they remarked that upon the shattered edges
of such strata they found enormous accumulations of
fragments and rubbish, rounded by the action of water,
so as to denote ages of violent aqueous action: they
conceived that they saw instances in which whole moun­
tains of rock in a state of igneous fusion, must have
burst the earth’s crust from below: they found that in
the course of the revolutions by which one stratum of
rock was placed upon another, the whole collection of
animal species which tenanted the earth and the seas
had been removed, and a new set of living things intro­
duced in its place: finally, they found, above all the
strata, vast masses of sand and gravel containing bones
of animals, and apparently the work of a mighty deluge.
With all these proofs before their eyes, they thought it
impossible not to judge that the agents of change by
which the world was urged from one condition to another
till it reached its present state must have been more
violent, more powerful, than any which we see at work
around us. They conceived that the evidence of “catas­
trophes” was irresistible.
Digitized by Google
2. Doctrine of Uniformity.—I need not here repeat
the narrative (given in the History*) of the process by
which this formidable array of proofs was, in the minds
of some eminent geologists, weakened, and at last over­
come. This was done by showing that the sudden breaks
in the succession of strata were apparent only, the dis­
continuity of the series which occurred in one country
being removed by terms interposed in another locality:
—by urging that the total effect produced by existing
causes, taking into account the accumulated result of
long periods, is far greater than a casual speculator would
think possible:—by making it appear that there are in
many parts of the world evidences of a slow and imper­
ceptible rising of the land since it was the habitation of
now existing species:—by proving that it is not univer­
sally true that the strata separated in time by supposed
catastrophes contain distinct species of animals:— by
pointing out the limited fields of the supposed diluvial
action:—and finally, by remarking that though the crea­
tion of species is a mystery, the extinction of species is
going on in our own day. Hypotheses were suggested,
too, by which it was conceived that the change of cli­
mate might be explained, which, as the consideration of
the fossil remains seemed to show, must have taken
place between the ancient and the modern times. In
this manner the whole evidence of catastrophes was
explained away: the notion of a series of paroxysms of
violence in the causes of change was represented as a
delusion arising from our contemplating short periods
only, in the action of present causes: length of time was
called in to take the place of intensity of force: and it
was declared that Geology need not despair of account­
ing for the revolutions of the earth, as Astronomy ac­
counts for the revolutions of the heavens, by the universal
* Hist, fnd S c i B. xvm. c. viii. sect. 2.
DOCTRINES OF CATASTROPHES AND OF UNIFORMITY. 667
Digitized by Google
6 6 8 PHILOSOPHY OF PAL^JTIOLOGY.
action of causes which are close at hand to us, operating
through time and space without variation or decay.
An antagonism of opinions, somewhat of the same
kind as this, will be found to manifest itself in the other
Palaetiological Sciences as well as in Geology, and it will
be instructive to endeavour to balance these opposite
doctrines. I will mention some of the considerations
which bear upon the subject in its general form.
3. Is Uniformity probable d priori f —The doctrine
of Uniformity in the course of nature has sometimes been
represented by its adherents as possessing a great degree
of d priori probability. It is highly unphilosophical, it
has been urged, to assume that the causes of the geolo­
gical events of former times were of a different kind from
causes now in action, if causes of this latter kind can in
any way be made to explain the facts. The analogy of
all other sciences compels us, it was said, to explain phe­
nomena by known, not by unknown, causes. And on
these grounds the geological teacher recommended* “an
earnest and patient endeavour to reconcile the indications
of former change with the evidence of gradual mutations
now in progress.”
But on this we may remark, that if by knorcn causes
we mean causes acting with the same intensity which
they have had during historical times, the restriction is
altogether arbitrary and groundless. Let it be granted,
for instance, that many parts of the earth’s surface are
now undergoing an imperceptible rise. It is not pre­
tended that the rate of this elevation is rigorously uni­
form ; what, then, are the limits of its velocity ? Why may
it not increase so as to assume that character of violence
which we may terra a catastrophe with reference to all
changes hitherto recorded? Why may not the rate of
elevation be such that we may conceive the strata to
* Lycll, 4th Ed. B. iv. c. 1, p. 328.
Digitized by Googk
assume suddenly a position nearly vertical ? and is it, in
fact, easy to conceive a position of strata nearly vertical,
a position which occurs so frequently, to be gradually
assumed ? In cases where the strata are nearly vertical,
as in the Isle of Wight, and hundreds of other places, or
where they are actually inverted, as sometimes occurs,
are not the causes which have produced the effect as truly
known causes, as those which have raised the coasts where
we trace the former beach in an elevated terrace? If
the latter case proves slow elevation, does not the former
case prove rapid elevation ? In neither case have we any
measure of the time employed in the change; but does
not the very nature of the results enable us to discern,
that if one was gradual, the other was comparatively
sudden ?
The causes which are now elevating a portion of
Scandinavia can be called known causes, only because we
know the effect. Are not the causes which have elevated
the Alps and the Andes known causes in the same sense?
We know nothing in either case which confines the
intensity of the force within any limit, or prescribes to it
any law of uniformity. Why, then, should we make a
merit of cramping our speculations by such assumptions ?
Whether the causes of change do act uniformly;—
whether they oscillate only within narrow limits;—
whether their intensity in former times was nearly the
same as it now is;—these are precisely the questions
which we wish JScience to answer to us impartially and
truly: where is then the wisdom of “ an earnest and
patient endeavour” to secure an affirmative reply?
Thus I conceive that the assertion of an priori
claim to probability and philosophical spirit in favour of
the doctrine of uniformity, is quite untenable. We must
learn from an examination of.all the facts, and not from
any assumption of our own, whether the course of nature
DOCTRINES OF CATASTROPHES AND OF UNIFORMITY. 6 6 9
Digitized by Googk
6 7 0 PHILOSOPHY OF PALZETIOLOGY.
be uniform. The limit of intensity being really unknown,
catastrophes are just as probable as uniformity. If a
volcano may repose for a thousand years, and then break
out and destroy a city; why may not another volcano
repose for ten thousand years, and then destroy a con­
tinent; or if a continent, why not the whole habitable
surface of the earth ?
4. Cycle of Uniformity indefinite.— But this argument
may be put in another form. When it is said that the
course of nature is uniform, the assertion is not intended
to exclude certain smaller variations of violence and rest,
such as we have just spoken o f;—alternations of activity
and repose in volcanoes; or earthquakes, deluges, and
storms, interposed in a more tranquil state of things.
With regard to such occurrences, terrible as they appear
at the time, they may not much affect the average rate
of change; there may be a c
y
c
l,though a
of rapid and slow change; and if such cycles go on suc­
ceeding each other, we may still call the order of nature
uniform, notwithstanding the periods of violence which
it involves. The maximum and minimum intensities of
the forces of mutation alternate with one another; and
we may estimate the average course of nature as that
which corresponds to something between the two ex­
tremes.
But if we thus attempt to maintain the uniformity of
nature by representing it as a series of , we find
that we cannot discover, in this conception, any solid
ground for excluding catastrophes. What is the length
of that cycle, the repetition of which constitutes uni­
formity? What interval from the maximum to the
minimum does it admit of? We may take for our cycle
a hundred or a thousand years, but evidently such a pro­
ceeding is altogether arbitrary. We may mark our cycles
by the greatest known paroxysms of volcanic and terre-
Digitized by Googk
motive agency, but this procedure is no less indefinite
and inconclusive than the other.
But further; since the cycle in which violence and
repose alternate is thus indefinite in its length and in its
range of activity, what ground have we for assuming
more than onesuch cycle, extending from the origin of
things to the present time? Why may we not suppose
the maximum force of the causes of change to have taken
place at the earliest period, and the tendency towards the
minimum to have gone on ever since? Or instead of
only one cycle, there may have been several, but of such
length that our historical period forms a portion only of
the last;—the feeblest portion of the latest cycle. And
thus violence and repose may alternate upon a scale of
time and intensity so large, that mau’s experience sup­
plies no evidence enabling him to estimate the amount.
The course of things is unjfoi'm, to an Intelligence which
can embrace the succession of several cycles, but it is
catastrophic to the contemplation of man, whose survey
can grasp a part only of one cycle. And thus the hypo­
thesis of uniformity, since it cannot exclude degrees of
change, nor limit the range of these degrees, nor define
the interval of their recurrence, cannot possess any essen­
tial simplicity which, previous to inquiry, gives it a claim
upon our assent superior to that of the opposite cata­
strophic hypothesis.
5. Uni/ormitarian Arguments are Negative only.—
There is an opposite tendency in the mode of maintaining
the catastrophist and the uniformitarian opinions, which
depends upon their fundamental principles, and shows
itself in all the controversies between them. The Cata­
strophist is affirmative, the Uniformitarian is negative in
his assertions: the former is constantly attempting to
construct a theory; the latter delights in demolishing all
theories. The one is constantly bringing fresh evidence
DOCTRINES OF CATASTROPHES AND OF UNIFORMITY. 671
Digitized by Googk
6 7 2 PHILOSOPHY OF PALZKTIOLOGY.
of some great past event, or series of events, of a striking
and definite kind ; his antagonist is at every step explain­
ing away the evidence, and showing that it proves nothing.
One geologist adduces his proofs ofa vast universal deluge;
but another endeavours to show that the proofs do not
establish either the universality or the vastness of such an
event. The inclined broken edges of a certain formation,
covered with their own fragments, beneath superjacent
horizontal deposits, are at one time supposed to prove a
catastrophic breaking up of the earlier strata; but this
opinion is controverted by showing that the same forma­
tions, when pursued into other countries, exhibit a uni­
form gradation from the lower to the upper, with no
trace of violence. Extensive and lofty elevations of the
coast, continents of igneous rock, at first appear to indi­
cate operations far more gigantic than those which now
occur; but attempts are soon made to show that time
only is wanting to enable the present age to rival the
past in the production of such changes. Each new fact
adduced by the catastrophist is at first striking and appa­
rently convincing; but as it becomes familiar, it strikes
the imagination less powerfully; and the uniformitarian,
constantly labouring to produce some imitation of it by
the machinery which he has so well studied, at last in
every case seems to himself to succeed, so far as to
destroy the effect of his opponent’s evidence.
This is so with regard to more remote, as well as with
regard to immediate evidences of change. When it is
ascertained that in every part of the earth’s crust the
temperature increases as we descend below the surface,
at first this fact seems to indicate a central heat: and a
central heat naturally suggests an earlier state of the
mass, in which it was incandescent, and from which it is
now cooling. But this original incandescence of the
globe of the earth is manifestly an entire violation of the
Digitized by Googk
present course of things; it belongs to the catastrophist
view, and the advocates of uniformity have to explaio it
away. Accordingly, one of them holds that this increase
of heat in descending below the surface may very possibly
not go on all the way to the center. The heat which in­
creases at first as we descend, may, he conceives, after­
wards decrease; and he suggests causes which may have
produced such a succession of hotter and colder shells
within the mass of the earth. I have mentioned this
suggestion in the History of Geology; and have given
my reasons for believing it altogether untenable*. Other
persons also, desirous of reconciling this subterraneous
heat with the tenet of uniformity, have offered another
suggestion:—that the warmth or incandescence of the
interior parts of the earth does not arise out of an ori­
ginally hot condition from which it is gradually cooling,
but results from chemical action constantly going on
among the materials of the earth’s substance. And thus
new attempts are perpetually making, to escape from the
cogency of the reasonings which send us towards an ori­
ginal state of things different from the present. Those
who theorize concerning an origin go on building up the
fabric of their speculations, while those who think such
theories unphilosophical, ever and anon dig away the
foundation of this structure. As we have already said,
the uniformitarian’s doctrines are a collection of nega­
tives.
This is so entirely the case, that the uniformitarian
would for the most part shrink from maintaining as
positive tenets the explanations which he so willingly
uses as instruments of controversy. He puts forward his
suggestions as difficulties, but he will not stand by them
as doctrines. And this is in accordance with his general
tendency; for any of his hypotheses, if insisted upon as
♦ Hist. Ind. S r i B. x v m . c. v. sect 5, and note-
VOL. I. W . P. X X
DOCTRINES OF CATASTROPHES AND OF UNIFORMITY. 6 7 3
Digitized by Google
G74 PHILOSOPHY OF PALiETlOLOGY.
positive theories, would be found inconsistent with the
assertion of uniformity. For example, the nebular hypo­
thesis appears to give to the history of the heavens an
aspect which obliterates all special acts of creation,
for, according to that hypothesis, new planetary systems
are constantly forming; but .when asserted as the origin
of our own solar system, it brings with it an original
incandescence, and an origin of the organic world. And
if, instead of using the chemical theory of subterraneous
heat to neutralize the evidence of original incandescence,
we assert it as a positive tenet, we can no longer main­
tain the infinite past duration of the earth; for chemical
forces, as well as mechanical, tend to equilibrium; and
that condition once attained, their efficacy ceases. Che­
mical affinities tend to form new compounds; and though,
when many and various elements are mingled together,
the play of synthesis and analysis may go on for a long
time, it must at last end. If, for instance, a large por­
tion of the earth’s mass were originally pure potassium,
we can imagine violent igneous action to go on so long
as any part remained unoxidized; but when the oxidation
of the whole has once taken place, this action must be
at an end; for there is in the hypothesis no agency
which can reproduce the deoxidized metal. Thus a per­
petual motion is impossible in chemistry, as it is in
mechanics; and a theory of constant change continued
through infinite time, is untenable when asserted upon
chemical, no less than upon mechanical principles. And
thus the Skepticism of the uniformitarian is of force only
so long as it is employed against the Dogmatism of the
catastrophist. When the Doubts are erected into Dogmas,
they are no longer consistent with the tenet of Unifor­
mity. When the Negations become Affirmations, the
Negation of an Origin vanishes also.
6. Uniformity in the Organic World.— In speaking
Digitized by Googk
of the violent and sudden changes which constitute cata­
strophes, our thoughts naturally turn at first to great
mechanical and physical effects; —ruptures and displace­
ments of strata; extensive submersions and emersions of
land; rapid changes of temperature. But the catastrophes
which we have to consider in geology affect the organic as
well as the inorganic world. The sudden extinction of
one collection of species, and the introduction of another
in their place, is a catastrophe, even if unaccompanied
by mechanical violence. Accordingly, the antagonism of
the catastrophist and uniformitarian school has shown
itself in this department of the subject, as well as in the
other. When geologists had first discovered that the
successive strata are each distinguished by appropri­
ate organic fossils, they assumed at once that each of
these collections of living things belonged to a separate
creation. But this conclusion, as I have already said,
Mr. Lvell has attempted to invalidate, by proving that in
the existing order of things, some species become extinct;
and by suggesting it as possible, that in the same order
it may be true that new species are from time to time
produced, even in the present course of nature. And in
this, as in the other part of the subject, he calls in the
aid of vast periods of time, in order that the violence of
the changes may be softened down: and he appears dis­
posed to believe that the actual extinction and creation
of species may be so slow as to excite no more notice
than it has hitherto obtained; and yet may be rapid
enough, considering the immensity of geological periods,
to produce such a succession of different collections of
species as we find in the strata of the earth’s surface.
7. Origin of the present Organic World.—The last
great event in the history of the vegetable and animal
kingdoms was that by which their various tribes were
placed in their present seats. And we may form various
X X 8
DOCTRINES OF CATASTROPHES AND OF UNIFORMITY. 675
Digitized by Googk
6 7 6 PHILOSOPHY OF PALÆTIOLOGY.
hypotheses with regard to the sudden or gradual man­
ner in which we may suppose this distribution to have
taken place. We may assume that at the beginning of
the present order of things, a stock of each species was
placed in the vegetable or animal province to which it
belongs, by some cause out of the common order of
nature; or we may take a uniformitarian view of the
subject, and suppose that the provinces of the organic
world derived their population from some anterior state
of things by the operation of natural causes.
Nothing has been pointed out in the existing order
of things which has any analogy or resemblance, of any
valid kind, to that creative energy which must be exerted
in the production of a new species. And to assume the
introduction of new species as “a part of the order of
nature,” without pointing out any natural fact with
which such an event can be classed, would be to reject
creation, by an arbitrary act. Hence, even on natural
grounds, the most intelligible view of the history of the
animal and vegetable kingdoms seems to be, that each
period which is marked by a distinct collection of species
forms a cycle; and that at the beginning of each such
cycle a creative power was exerted, of a kind to which
there was nothing at all analogous in the succeeding
part of the same cycle. If it be urged that in some
cases the same species, or the same genus, runs through
two geological formations, which must, on other grounds,
be referred to different cycles of creative energy, we
may reply that the creation of many new species does
not imply the extinction of all the old ones.
Thus we are led by our reasonings to this view, that
the present order of things was commenced by an act
of creative power entirely different to any agency which
has been exerted since. None of the influences which
have modified the present races of animals and plants
Digitized by Google
since they were placed in their habitations on the earth’s
surface can have had any efficacy in producing them at
first. We are necessarily driven to assume, as the begin­
ning of the present cycle of organic nature, an event not
included in the course of nature. And we may remark
that this necessity is the more cogent, precisely because
other cycles have preceded the present.
8. Nebular Origin qf the Solar System.— If we
attempt to apply the same antithesis of opinion (the
doctrines of Catastrophe and Uniformity,) to the other
subjects of palaetiological sciences, we shall be led to
similar conclusions. Thus, if we turn our attention to
astronomical palsetiology, we perceive that the nebular
hypothesis has a uniformitarian tendency. According to
this hypothesis the formation of this our system of sun,
planets, and satellites, was a process of the same kind
as those which are still going on in the heavens. One
after another, nebulae condense into separate masses,
which begin to revolve about each other by mechanical
necessity, and form systems of which our solar system
is a finished example. But we may remark, that the
uniformitarian doctrine on this subject rests on most
unstable foundations. We have as yet only very vague
and imperfect reasonings to show that by such conden­
sation a material system such as ours could result; and
the introduction of organized beings into such a material
system is utterly out of the reach of our philosophy.
Here again, therefore, we are led to regard the pre­
sent order of the world as pointing towards an origin
altogether of a different kind from anything which our
material science can grasp.
9. Origin of Languages.—We may venture to say
that we should be led to the same conclusion once more,
if we were to take into our consideration those palaetio­
logical sciences which are beyond the domain of matter;
DOCTRINES OF CATASTROPHES AND OF UNIFORMITY. 6 7 7
Digitized by Google
678 PHILOSOPHY OF PALÆTIOLOGY.
for instance, the history of languages. We may explain
many of the differences and changes which we become
acquainted with, by referring to the action of causes of
change which still operate. But what glossologist will
venture to declare that the efficacy of such causes has
been uniform;—that the influences which mould a lan­
guage, or make one language differ from others of the
same stock, operated formerly with no more efficacy
than they exercise now. “ Where,” as has elsewhere
been asked, “ do we now find a language in the process
of formation, unfolding itself in inflexions, terminations,
changes of vowels by grammatical relations, such as
characterize the oldest known languages?” Again, as
another proof how little the history of languages sug­
gests to the philosophical glossologist the persuasion of
a uniform action of the causes of change, I may refer
to the conjecture of Dr. Prichard, that the varieties of
language produced by the separation of one stock into
several, have been greater and greater as we go back­
wards in history :—that* the formation of sister dialects
from a common language, (as the Scandinavian, German,
and Saxon dialects from the Teutonic, or the Gaelic,
Erse and Welsh from the Celtic,) belongs to the first
millennium before the Christian era; while the forma­
tion of cognate languages of the same family, as the
Sanskrit, Latin, Greek and Gothic, must be placed at
least two thbusand years before that era; and at a still
earlier period took place the separation of the great
families themselves, the Indo-European, Semitic, and
others, in which it is now difficult to trace the features
of a common origin. No hypothesis except one of this
kind will explain the existence of the families, groups,
and dialects of languages, which we find in existence.
Yet this is an entirely different view from that which
* Researchesy n. 224. .
Digitized by Google
the hypothesis of the uniform progress of change would
give. And thus, in the earliest stages of man’s career,
the revolutions of language must have been, even by
the evidence of the theoretical history of language itself,
of an order altogether different from any which have
taken place within the recent history of man. And we
may add, that as the early stages of the progress of
language must have widely different from those later
ones of which we can in some measure trace the natural
causes, we cannot place the origin of language in any
point of view in which it comes under the jurisdiction of
natural causation at all.
10. No Natural Origin discoverable.—We are thus
led by a survey of several of the palsetiological sciences
to a confirmation of the principle formerly asserted*,
That in no palsetiological science has man been able to
arrive at a beginning which is homogeneous with the
known course of events. We can in such sciences often
go very far back;— determine many of the remote cir­
cumstances of the past series of events;—ascend to a
point which seems to be near the origin;—and limit the
hypotheses respecting the origin itself: but philoso­
phers never have demonstrated, and, so far as we can
judge, probably never will be able to demonstrate, what
was that primitive state of things from which the pro­
gressive course of the world took its first departure. In
all these paths of research, when we travel far back­
wards, the aspect of the earlier portions becomes very
different from that of the advanced part on which we
now stand; but in all cases the path is lost in obscurity
as it is traced backwards towards its starting point: it
becomes not only invisible, but unimaginable; it is not
only an interruption, but an abyss, which interposes itself
between us and any intelligible beginning of things.
* Hist. Ind. Sci.yB. xvm . c. vi. sect.5.
DOCTRINES OF CATASTROPHES AND OF "UNIFORMITY. 6 7 9
Digitized by Google
680 PHILOSOPHY OF PALÆTIOLOY.
Chapter IV.
OF TH E RELATIO N OF TRA D ITIO N TO PALAC-
TIOLOGY.
1. Importance of Tradition.—Since the Palaetio-
logical Sciences have it for their business to study the
train of past events produced by natural causes down to
the present time, the knowledge concerning such events
which is supplied by the remembrance and records of
man, in whatever form, must have an important bearing
upon these sciences. All changes in the condition and
extent of land and sea, which have taken place within
man’s observation, all effects of deluges, sea-waves,
rivers, springs, volcanoes, earthquakes, and the like,
which come within the reach of human history, have a
strong interest for the palaetiologist. Nor is he less con­
cerned in all recorded instances of the modification of
the forms and habits of plants and animals, by the opera­
tions of man, or by transfer from one land to another.
And when we come to the Palsetiology of Language, of
Art, of Civilization, we find our subject still more closely
connected with history; for in truth these are historical,
no less than palaetiological investigations. But, confin­
ing ourselves at present to the material sciences, we
may observe that though the importance of the infor­
mation which tradition gives us, in the sciences now
under our consideration, as, for instance, geology, has
long been tacitly recognized; yet it is only recently that
geologists have employed themselves in collecting their
historical facts upon such a scale and with such compre­
hensive views as are required by the interest and use of
collections of this kind. The Essay of Von Hoff*, On
the Natural Alterations in the Surface qf the Earth
• Yol. i., 1822; Vol. ii., 1824.
Digitized by Google
RELATION OF TRADITION TO PALZBTIOLOGY. 681
which are proved by T
r
a
d
i
t
i
o
, was the work wh
first opened the eyes of geologists to the extent and
importance of this kind of investigation. Since that
time the same path of research has been pursued with
great perseverance by others, especially by Mr. Lyell;
and is now justly considered as an essential portion of
Geology.
2. Connexion of Tradition and Science.—Events
which we might naturally expect to have some bearing
on geology, are narrated in the historical writings which,
even on mere human grounds, have the strongest claim
to our respect as records of the early history of the
world, and are confirmed by the traditions of various
nations all over the globe; namely, the formation of the
earth and of its population, and a subsequent deluge.
It has been made a matter of controversy how the narra­
tive of these events is to be understood, so as to make it
agree with the facts which an examination of the earth’s
surface and of its vegetable and animal population dis­
closes to us. Such controversies, when they are con­
sidered as merely archaeological, may occur in any of the
palaetiological sciences. We may have to compare and
to reconcile the evidence of existing phenomena with
that of historical tradition. But under some circum­
stances this process of conciliation may assume an in­
terest of another kind, on which we will make a few
remarks.
3. Natural and Providential History qf the World.
—We may contemplate the existence of man upon the
earth, his origin and his progress, in the same manner
as we contemplate the existence of any other race of
animals; namely, in a purely palatiological view. We
may consider how far our knowledge of laws of causa­
tion enables us t<
? explain his diffusion and migration,
his differences and resemblances, his actions and works.
Digitized by Googk
682 PUILOSOPUY OF PALÆTIOLOGY.
And this is the view of man as a member of the Natural
Course of Things.
But man, at the same time the contemplator and the
subject of his own contemplation, endowed with facul­
ties and powers which make him a being of a different
nature from other animals, cannot help regarding his
own actions and enjoyments, his recollections and his
hopes, under an aspect quite different from any that we
have yet had presented to us. We have been endeavour­
ing to place in a clear light the Fundamental Ideas,
such as that of Cause, on which depends our knowledge
of the natural course of things. But there are other
Ideas to which man necessarily refers his actions; he is
led by his nature, not only to consider his own actions,
and those of his fellow-men, as springing out of this or
that cause, leading to this or that material result; but
also as good or bad, as what they ought or ought not to
be. He has Ideas of moral relations as well as those
Ideas of material relations with which we have hitherto
been occupied. He is a moral as well as a natural
agent.
Contemplating himself and the world around him
by the light of his Moral Ideas, man is led to the con­
viction that his moral faculties were bestowed upon him
by design and for a purpose; that he is the subject of
a Moral Government; that the course of the world is
directed by the Power which governs it, to the unfolding
and perfecting of man’s moral nature; that this guid­
ance may be traced in the career of individuals and of
the world; that there is a Providential as well as a
Natural Course of Things.
Yet this view is beset by no small difficulties. The
full developeraent of man’s moral faculties;—the perfec­
tion of his nature up to the measure of his own ideas;
—the adaptation of his moral being to an ultimate des-
Digitized by Google
tination, by its transit through a world full of moral
evil, in which evil each person has his share;—are effects
for which the economy of the world appears to contain
no adequate provision. Man, though aware of his moral
nature, and ready to believe in an ultimate destination
of purity and blessedness, is too feeble to resist the
temptation of evil, and too helpless to restore his purity
when once lost. He cannot but look for some confir­
mation of that providential order which he has begun
to believe; some provision for those deficiencies in his
moral condition which he has begun to feel.
He looks at the history of the world, and he finds
that at a certain period it offers to him the promise of
what he seeks. When the natural powers of man had
been developed to their full extent, and were beginning
to exhibit symptoms of decay;—when the intellectual
progress of the world appeared to have reached its limit,
without supplying man’s moral needs;—we find the great
Epoch in the Providential History of the world. We
find the announcement of a Dispensation by which man’s
deficiencies shall be supplied and his aspirations ful­
filled : we find a provision for the purification, the sup­
port, and the ultimate beatification of those who use the
provided means. And thus the providential course of
the world becomes consistent and intelligible.
4. The Sacred Narrative.—But with the new Dispen­
sation, we receive, not only an account of its own scheme
and history, but also a written narrative of the providen­
tial course of the world from the earliest times, and even
from its first creation. This narrative is recognized and
authorized by the new dispensation, and accredited by
some of the same evidences as the dispensation itself.
That the existence of such a sacred narrative should be
a part of the providential order of things, cannot but
RKLATION OF TRADITION TO PALA3TIOLOGY. 6 8 3
Digitized by Google
684 PHILOSOPHY OF PAL^TIOLOGY.
appear natural; but, naturally also, the study of it leads
to some difficulties.
The Sacred Narrative in some of its earliest portions
speaks of natural objects and occurrences respecting
them. In the very beginning of the course of the world,
we may readily believe (indeed, as we have seen in the
last chapter, our scientific researches lead us to believe)
that such occurrences were very different from anything
which now takes place;—different to an extent and in a
manner which we cannot estimate. Now the narrative
must speak of objects and occurrences in the words and
phrases which have derived their meaning from their ap­
plication to the existing natural state of things. When
applied to an initial supernatural state therefore, these
words and phrases cannot help being to us obscure and
mysterious, perhaps ambiguous and seemingly contra­
dictory.
5. Difficulties in interpreting the Sacred Narrative.—
The moral and providential relations of man’s condition
are so much more important to him than mere natural
relations, that at first we may well suppose he will accept
the Sacred Narrative, as not only unquestionable in its
true import, but also as a guide in his views even of
mere natural relations. He will try to modify the con­
ceptions which he entertains of objects and their pro­
perties, so that the Sacred Narrative of the supernatural
condition shall retain the first meaning which he had
put upon it in virtue of his own habits in the usage of
language.
But man is so constituted that he cannot persist in
this procedure. The powers and tendencies of his intel­
lect are such that he cannot help trying to attain true
conceptions of objects and their properties by the study
of things themselves. For instance, when he at first
Digitized by Googk
RELATION OF TRADITION TO PALÆTIOLOGY. 685
read of a firmament dividing the waters above from the
waters below, he perhaps conceived a transparent floor
in the skies, on which the superior waters rested, which
descend in rain; but as his observations and his reason­
ings satisfied him that such a floor could not exist, he
became willing to allow (as St. Augustine allowed) that
the waters above the firmament are in a state of vapour.
And in like manner in other subjects, men, as their views
of nature became more distinct and precise, modified, so
far as it was necessary for consistency’s sake, their first
rude interpretations of the Sacred Narrative; so that,
without in any degree losing its import as a view of the
providential course of the world, it should be so con­
ceived as not to contradict what they knew of the
natural order of things.
But this accommodation was not always made without
painful struggles and angry controversies. When men
had conceived the occurrences of the Sacred Narrative in
a particular manner, they could not readily and willingly
adopt a new mode of conception; and all attempts to
recommend to them such novelties, they resisted as
attacks upon the sacredness of the Narrative. They had
clothed their belief of the workings of Providence in
certain images; and they clung to those images with the
persuasion that, without them, their belief could not
subsist. Thus they imagined to themselves that the
earth was a flat floor, solidly and broadly laid for the
convenience of man; and they felt as if the kindness of
Providence was disparaged, when it was maintained that
the earth was a globe held together only by the mutual
attraction of its parts.
The most memorable instance of a struggle of this
kind is to be found in the circumstances which attended
the introduction of the Heliocentric Theory of Coperni­
cus to general acceptance. On this controversy I have
Digitized by Google
68G PHILOSOPHY OF PALÆTIOLOGY.
already made some remarks in the History of *,
and have attempted to draw from it some lessons which
may be useful to us when any similar conflict of opinions
may occur. I will here add a few reflections with a
similar view.
6. Such difficulties inevitable.—In the first place, I
remark that such modifications of the current interpre­
tation of the words of Scripture appear to be an inevi­
table consequence of the progressive character of Natural
Science. Science is constantly teaching us to describe
known facts in new language; but the language of Scrip­
ture is always the same. And not only so, but the lan­
guage of Scripture is necessarily adapted to the common
state of man’s intellectual developement, in which he is
supposed not to be possessed of science. Hence the
phrases used by Scripture are precisely those which
science soon teaches man to consider as inaccurate. Yet
they are not, on that account, the less fitted for their
proper purpose: for if any terms had been used, adapted
to a more advanced state of knowledge, they must have
been unintelligible among those to whom the Scripture
was first addressed. If the Jews had been told that
water existed in the clouds in small drops, they would
have marvelled that it did not constantly descend; and
to have explained the reason of this, would have been
to teach Atmology in the sacred writings. If they had
read in their Scripture that the earth was a sphere,
when it appeared to be a plain, they would only have
been disturbed in their thoughts or driven to some wild
and baseless imaginations, by a declaration to them so
strange. If the Divine Speaker, instead of saying that
he would set his bow in the clouds, had been made
to declare that he would give to water the property
of refracting different colours at different angles, how
* B. v. c. iii. sect. 4.
Digitized by Google
RKLATION OF TRADITION TO PALÆTIOLOGY. 687
utterly unmeaning to the hearers would the words
have been! And in these cases, the expressions, being
unintelligible, startling, and bewildering, would have
been such as tended to unfit the Sacred Narrative for
its place in the providential dispensation of the world.
Accordingly, in the great controversy which took
place in Galileo’s time between the defenders of the then
customary interpretations of Scripture, and the assertors
of the Copernican system of the universe, when the inno­
vators were upbraided with maintaining opinions contrary
to Scripture, they replied that Scripture was not intended
to teach men astronomy, and that it expressed the acts of
divine power in images which were suited to the ideas of
unscientific men. To speak of the rising and setting and
travelling of the sun, of the fixity and of the foundations
of the earth, was to use the only language which would
have made the Sacred Narrative intelligible. To extract
from these and the like expressions doctrines of science,
was, they declared, in the highest degree unjustifiable;
and such a course could lead, they held, to no result but
a weakening of the authority of Scripture in proportion
as its credit was identified with that of these modes of
applying it. And this judgment has since been generally
assented to by those who most reverence and value the
study of the designs of Providence as well as that of the
works of nature.
7. Science tells us nothing concerning Creation.—
Other apparent difficulties arise from the accounts given
in the Scripture of the first origin of the world in which
we live: for example, Light is represented as created
before the Sun. With regard to difficulties of this kind,
it appears that we may derive some instruction from the
result to which we were led in the last chapter;—namely,
that in the sciences which trace the progress of natural
occurrences, we can in no case go back to an origin, but
Digitized by Google
6 8 8 PHILOSOPHY OF PAL^TIOLOGY.
in every instance appear to find ourselves separated from
it by a state of things, and an order of events, of a kind
altogether different from those which come under our
experience. The thread of induction respecting the
natural course of the world snaps in our fingers, when
we try to ascertain where its beginning is. Since, then,
science can teach us nothing positive respecting the
beginning of things, she can neither contradict nor con­
firm what is taught by Scripture on that subject; and
thus, as it is unworthy timidity in the lover of Scripture
to fear contradiction, so is it ungrounded presumption
to look for confirmation, in such cases. The providen­
tial history of the world has its own beginning, and its
own evidence; and we can only render the system inse­
cure, by making it lean on our material sciences. If
any one were to suggest that the nebular hypothesis
countenances the Scripture history of the formation of
this system, by showing how the luminous matter of
the sun might exist previous to the sun itself) we should
act wisely in rejecting such an attempt to weave toge­
ther these two heterogeneous threads;—the one a part
of a providential scheme, the other a fragment of a phy­
sical speculation.
We shall best learn those lessons of the true philoso­
phy of science which it is our object to collect, by attend­
ing to portions of science which have gone through such
crises as we are now considering; nor is it requisite, for
this purpose, to bring forwards any subjects which are
still under discussion. It may, however, be mentioned
that such maxims as we are now endeavouring to esta­
blish, and the one before us in particular, bear with a
peculiar force upon those Palsetiological Sciences of
which we have been treating in the present Book.
8. Scientific views, whenfamiliar, do not disturb the
authority of Scripture.— There is another reflection
Digitized by Googk
RELATION OF TRADITION TO PALZETIOLOGY. 6 8 9
which may serve to console and encourage us in the
painful struggles which thus take place, between those
who maintain interpretations of Scripture already preva­
lent and those who contend for such new ones as the
new discoveries of science require. It is this;—that
though the new opinion is resisted by one party as some­
thing destructive of the credit of Scripture and the reve­
rence which is its due, yet, in fact, when the new inter­
pretation has been generally established and incorporated
with men’s current thoughts, it ceases to disturb their
views of the authority of the Scripture or of the truth of
its teaching. When the language of Scripture, invested
with its new meaning, has become familiar to men, it is
found that the ideas which it calls up are quite as recon-
cileable as the former ones were, with the most entire
acceptance of the providential dispensation. And when
this has been found to be the case, all cultivated persons
look back with surprise at the mistake of those who
thought that the essence of the revelation was involved
in their own arbitrary version of some collateral circum­
stance in the revealed narrative. At the present day, we
can hardly conceive how reasonable men could ever have
imagined that religious reflections on the stability of the
earth, and the beauty and use of the luminaries which
revolve round it, would be interfered with by an acknow­
ledgment that this rest and motion are apparent only*.
And thus the authority of revelation is not shaken by
any changes introduced by the progress of science in the
mode of interpreting expressions which describe physical
objects and occurrences; provided the new interpretation
is admitted at a proper season, and in a proper spirit;
so as to soften, as much as possible, both the public con­
troversies and the private scruples which almost inevit­
ably accompany such an alteration.
• I have here borrowed a sentence or two from my own History.
VOL. I. W. P. Y Y
Digitized by Googk
6 9 0 PHILOSOPHY OF PALÆTIOLOGY.
9. When should old Interpretations be given up?—But
the question then occurs, What is the proper season for
a religious and enlightened commentator to make such
a change in the current interpretation of sacred Scrip­
ture ? At what period ought the established exposition
of a passage to be given up, and a new mode of under­
standing the passage, such as is, or seems to be, required
by new discoveries respecting the laws of nature, accepted
in its place ? It is plain, that to introduce such an alter­
ation lightly and hastily would be a procedure fraught
with inconvenience; for if the change were made in such
a manner, it might be afterwards discovered that it had
been adopted without sufficient reason, and that it was
necessary to reinstate the old exposition. And the minds
of the readers of Scripture, always to a certain extent
and for a time disturbed by the subversion of their long-
established notions, would be distressed without any
need, and might be seriously unsettled. While, on the
other hand, a too protracted and obstinate resistance to
the innovation, on the part of the scriptural expositors,
would tend to identify, at least in the minds of many,
the authority of the Scripture with the truth of the ex­
position ; and therefore would bring discredit upon the
revealed word, when the established interpretation was
finally proved to be untenable.
A rule on this subject, propounded by some of the most
enlightened dignitaries of the Roman Catholic church,
on the occasion of the great Copernican controversy
begun by Galileo, seems well worthy of our attention.
The following was the opinion given by Cardinal Bellar­
mine at the time:—“ When a demonstration shall be
found to establish the earth’s motion, it will be proper to
interpret the sacred Scriptures otherwise than they have
hitherto been interpreted in those passages where men­
tion is made of the stability of the earth and movement
Digitized by Google
of the heavens.” This appears to be a judicious and
reasonable maxim for such cases in general. So long as
the supposed scientific discovery is doubtful, the exposi­
tion of the meaning of Scripture given by commentators
of established credit is not wantonly to be disturbed:
but when a scientific theory, irreconcileable with this
ancient interpretation, is clearly proved, we must give up
the interpretation, and seek some new mode of under­
standing the passage in question, by means of which it
may be consistent with what we know; for if it be not,
our conception of the things so described is no longer
consistent with itself.
It may be said that this rule is indefinite, for who
shall decide when a new theory is completely demon­
strated, and the old interpretation become untenable!
But to this we may reply, that if the rule be assented to,
its application will not be very difficult. For when men
have admitted as a general rule, that the current inter­
pretations of scriptural expressions respecting natural
objects and events may possibly require, and in some
cases certainly will require, to be abandoned, and new
ones admitted, they will hardly allow themselves to con­
tend for such interpretations as if they were essential
parts of revelation; and will look upon the change of
exposition, whether it come sooner or later, without
alarm or anger. And when men lend themselves to the
progress of truth, in this spirit, it is not of any material
importance at what period a new and satisfactory inter­
pretation of the scriptural difficulty is found; since a
scientific exactness in our apprehension of the meaning
of such passages as are now referred to is very far from
being essential to our full acceptance of revelation.
10. In whatSpirit should the Change be accepted ?
—Still these revolutions in scriptural interpretation
must always have in them something which distresses
Y Y 2
RELATION OF TRADITION TO PALiETIOLOGY. 6 91
Digitized by Google
6 9 2 PHILOSOPHY OF PALÆTIOLOGY.
and disturbs religious communities. And such uneasy
feelings will take a different shape, according as the
community acknowledges or rejects a paramount inter­
pretative authority in its religious leaders. In the case
in which the interpretation of the Church is binding
upon all its members, the more placid minds rest in
peace upon the ancient exposition, till the spiritual
authorities announce that the time for the adoption of
a new view has arrived; but in these circumstances, the
more stirring and inquisitive minds, which cannot refrain
from the pursuit of new truths and exact conceptions,
are led to opinions which, being contrary to those of the
Church, are held to be sinful. On the other hand, if
the religious constitution of the community allow and
encourage each man to study and interpret for himself
the Sacred Writings, we are met by evils of another
kind. In this case, although, by the unfoiced influence
of admired commentators, there may prevail a general
agreement in the usual interpretation of difficult pas­
sages, yet as each reader of the Scripture looks upon
the sense which he has adopted as being his own inter­
pretation, he maintains it, not with the tranquil acquies­
cence of one who has deposited his judgment in the
hands of his Church, but with the keenness and strenu­
ousness of self-love. In such a state of things, though
no judicial severities can be employed against the
innovators, there may arise more angry controversies
than in the other case.
It is impossible to overlook the lesson which here
offers itself, that it is in the highest degree unwise in
the friends of religion, whether individuals or commu­
nities, unnecessarily to embark their credit in expositions
of Scripture on matters which appertain to natural
science. By delivering physical doctrines as the teach­
ing of revelation, religion may lose much, but cannot
Digitized by Google
gain anything. This maxim of practical wisdom has
often been urged by Christian writers. Thus St. Augus­
tin says*: “ In obscure matters and things far removed
from our senses, if we read anything, even in the divine
Scripture, which may produce diverse opinions without
damaging the faith which we cherish, let us not rush
headlong by positive assertion to either the one opinion
or the other; lest, when a more thorough discussion has
shown the opinion which we had adopted to be false,
our faith may fall with it : and we should be found con­
tending, not for the doctrine of the sacred Scriptures,
but for our own; endeavouring to make our doctrine to
be that of the Scriptures, instead of taking the doctrine
of the Scriptures to be ours.” And in nearly the same
spirit, at the time of the Copernican controversy, it was
thought proper to append to the work of Copernicus a
postil, to say that the work was written to account for
the phenomena, and that people must not run on blindly
and condemn either of the opposite opinions. Even
when the Inquisition, in 1616, thought itself compelled
to pronounce a decision upon this subject, the verdict
was delivered in very moderate language;— that “ the
doctrine of the earth’s motion appeared to be contrary
to Scriptureand yet, moderate as this expression is,
it has been blamed by judicious members of the Roman
church as deciding a point such as religious authorities
ought not to pretend to decide; and has brought upon
that church no ordinary weight of general condemna­
tion. Kepler pointed out, in his lively manner, the
imprudence of employing the force of religious autho­
rities on such subjects: A ties dolabroe ferrum illisa,
posted nee, inlignum valet amplius. Capiat hoc cujus
interest. “ If you m il try to chop iron, the axe becomes
unable to cut even wood. I warn those whom it concerns.”
* Lib, I. dc Getie&i, cap. xviii.
RELATION OF TRADITION TO PALJETIOLOGY. G93
Digitized by Googk
6.94 PHILOSOPHY OF PAL.STIOLOGY.
11. In whatSpirit should the Change he urg
But while we thus endeavour to show in what manner
the interpreters of Scripture may most safely and most
properly accept the discoveries of science, we must not
forget that there may be errours committed on the other
side also; and that men of science, in bringing forward
views which may for a time disturb the minds of lovers
of Scripture, should consider themselves as bound by
strict rules of candour, moderation, and prudence. In­
tentionally to make their supposed discoveries a means
of discrediting, contradicting, or slighting the sacred
Scriptures, or the authority of religion, is in them unpar­
donable. As men who make the science of Truth the
business of their lives, and are persuaded of her genuine
superiority, and certain of her ultimate triumph, they
ar? peculiarly bound to urge her claims in a calm and
temperate spirit; not forgetting that there are other
kinds of truth besides that which they peculiarly study.
They may properly reject authority in matters of science;
but they are to leave it its proper office in matters of
religion. I may here again quote Kepler’s expressions:
“ In Theology we balance authorities, in Philosophy we
weigh reasons. A holy man was Lactantius who denied
that the earth was round; a holy man was Augustin,
who granted the rotundity, but denied the antipodes;
a holy thing to me is the Inquisition, which allows the
smallness of the earth, but denies its motion; but more
holy to me is Truth; and hence I prove, from philo­
sophy, that the earth is round, and inhabited on every
side, of small size, and in motion among the stars,—and
this I do with no disrespect to the Doctors.” I the
more willingly quote such a passage from Kepler, be­
cause the entire ingenuousness and sincere piety of his
character does not allow us to suspect in him anything
of hypocrisy or latent irony. That similar professions
Digitized by Googk
of respect may be made ironically, we have a noted
example in the celebrated Introduction to Galileos
Dialogue on the Copemican System probably the part
which was most offensive to the authorities. “ Some
years ago,” he begins, “a wholesome edict was promul­
gated at Rome, which, in order to check the perilous
scandals of the present age, imposed silence upon the
Pythagorean opinion of the mobility of the earth.
There were not wanting,” he proceeds, “ persons who
rashly asserted that this decree was the result, not of a
judicious inquiry, but of passion ill-informed ; and com­
plaints were heard that counsellors, utterly unacquainted
with astronomical observation, ought not to be allowed,
with their sudden prohibitions, to clip the wings of spe­
culative intellects. At the hearing of rash lamentations
like these, my zeal could not keep silence." And he then
goes on to say, that he wishes, in his Dialogue, to show
that the subject had been fully examined at Rome.
Here the irony is quite transparent, and the sarcasm
glaringly obvious. I think we may venture to say that
this is not the temper in which scientific questions
should be treated ; although by some, perhaps, the pro­
hibition of public discussion may be considered as jus­
tifying any evasion which is likely to pass unpunished.
12. Duty of Mutual Forbearance.—We may add, as
a further reason for mutual forbearance in such cases,
that the true interests of both parties are the same.
The man of science is concerned, no less than any other
person, in the truth and import of the divine dispensa­
tion ; the religious man, no less than the man of science,
is, by the nature of his intellect, incapable of believing
two contradictory declarations. Hence they have both
alike a need for understanding the Scripture in some
way in which it shall be consistent with their under­
standing of nature. It is for their common advantage
RELATION OF TRADITION TO PALÆTIOLOGY. 695
Digitized by Googk
6 9 6 PHILOSOPHY OF PALiETIOLOGY.
to conciliate, as Kepler says, the finger and the tongue
of God, his works and his word. And they may find
abundant reason to bear with each other, even if they
should adopt for this purpose different interpretations,
each finding one satisfactory to himself; or if any one
should decline employing his thoughts on such subjects
at all. I have elsewhere* quoted a passage from Kep-
lerf which appears to me written in a most suitable
spirit: “ I beseech my reader that, not unmindful of the
Divine goodness bestowed upon man, he do with me
praise and celebrate the wisdom of the Creator, which I
open to him from a more inward explication of the form
of the world, from a searching of causes, from a detec­
tion of the errours of vision; and that thus not only
in the firmness and stability of the earth may we per­
ceive with gratitude the preservation of all living things
in nature as the gift of God: but also that in its motion,
so recondite, so admirable, we may acknowledge the
wisdom of the Creator. But whoever is too dull to
receive this science, or too weak to believe the Coper-
nican system without harm to his piety, him, I say, I
advise that, leaving the school of astronomy, and con­
demning, if so he please, any doctrines of the philo­
sophers, he follow his own path, and desist from this
wandering through the universe; and that, lifting up
his natural eyes, with which alone he can see, he pour
himself out from his own heart in worship of God the
Creator, being certain that he gives no less worship to
God than the astronomer, to whom God has given to
see more clearly with his inward eyes, and who, from
what he has himself discovered, both can and will glorify
God.”
13. Case of Galileo.— I may perhaps venture here to
make a remark or two upon this subject with reference
* BriHgetvalrrTr., p. 314. t Com. Marl., Introd.
Digitized by Googk
RELATION OF TRADITION TO PALJSTIOLOGY. 6D7
to a charge brought against a certain portion of the His­
tory of the Inductive Sciences. Complaint has been
made* that the character of the Roman church, as
shown in its behaviour towards Galileo, is misrepre­
sented in the account given of it in the History of
Astronomy. It is asserted that Galileo provoked the
condemnation he incurred; first, by pertinaciously de­
manding the assent of the ecclesiastical authorities to
his opinion of the consistency of the Copernican doctrine
with Scripture; and afterwards by contumaciously, and,
as we have seen, contumeliously violating the silence
which the Church had enjoined upon him. It is further
declared that the statement which represents it as the
habit of the Roman church to dogmatize on points of
natural science is unfounded; as well as the opinion that
in consequence of this habit, new scientific truths were
promulgated less boldly in Italy than in other countries.
I shall reply very briefly on these subjects; for the deci­
sion of them is by no means requisite in order to esta­
blish the doctrines to which I have been led in the
present chapter, nor, I hope, to satisfy my reader that
my views have been collected from an impartial con­
sideration of scientific history.
With regard to Galileo, I do not think it can be
denied that he obtruded his opinions upon the ecclesias­
tical authorities in an unnecessary and imprudent man­
ner. He was of an ardent character, strongly convinced
himself and urged on still more by the conviction which
he produced among his disciples, and thus he became
impatient for the triumph of truth. This judgment of
him has recently been delivered by various independent
authorities, and has undoubtedly considerable founda­
tion f. As to the question whether authority in matters
* Dublin Review, No. ix., July, 1838, p. 72.
t Beside» the Dublin Review, I may quote the Edittbttrgh Review,
which
Digitized by Googk
6 9 8 NIJLOSOPHY OF PALJETIOLOÜY.
of natural science were habitually claimed by the autho­
rities of the Church of Rome, I have to allow that I
cannot produce instances which establish such a habit.
We who have been accustomed to have daily before our
eyes the Monition which the Romish editors of Newton
thought it necessary to prefix—Coeterum latis a summo
Pontífice contra tellurismotum , nos
profitemur—were not likely to conjecture that this was
a solitary instance of the interposition of the Papal
authority on such subjects. But although it would be
easy to find declarations of heresy delivered by Romish
Universities, and writers of great authority, against
tenets belonging to the natural sciences, I am not aware
that any other case can be adduced in which the Church
or the Pope can be shown to have pronounced such a
sentence. I am well contented to acknowledge this;
for I should be far more gratified by finding myself
compelled to hold up the seventeenth century as a model
for the nineteenth in this respect, than by having to sow
enmity between the admirers of the past and the present
through any disparaging contrast*.
With respect to the attempt made in my History to
characterize the intellectual habits of Italy as produced
which I suppose wdll not be thought likely to have a bias in favour of
the exercise of ecclesiastical authority in matters of science; though
certainly there is a puerility in the critics phraseology which does not
add to the weight of his judgment. 4
1Galileo contrived to surround
the truth with every variety of obstruction. The tide of knowledge,
w’hich had hitherto advanced in peace, he crested with angry breakers,
and he involved in its surf both his friends and his foes/'—Ed. Rev
No. cxxiii. p. 12e>.
* I may add that the most candid of the adherents of the Church
of Rome condemn the assumption of authority in matters of science,
made, in this one instance at least, by the ecclesiastical tribunals. The
author of the Ages of Faith (Book vm. p. 248), says, 4
4A Congrega­
tion, it is to be lamented, declared the new system to be opposed to
Scripture, and therefore heretical.”
Digitized by Googk
RELATION OK TRADITION TO PALÆTIOLOGY. 6.99
by her religious condition,—certainly it would ill become
any student of the history of science to speak slightingly
of that country, always the mother of sciences, always
ready to catch the dawn and hail the rising of any new
light of knowledge. But I think our admiration of this
activity and acuteness of mind is by no means incon­
sistent with the opinion, that new truths were promul­
gated more boldly beyond the Alps, and that the subtilty
of the Italian intellect loved to insinuate what the
rough German bluntly asserted. Of the decent duplicity
with which forbidden opinions were handled, the re­
viewer himself gives us instances, when he boasts of the
liberality with which Copernican professors were placed
in important stations by the ecclesiastical authorities,
soon after the doctrine of the motion of the earth had
been declared by the same authorities to be contrary to
Scripture. And in the same spirit is the process of
demanding from Galileo a public and official recanta­
tion of opinions which he had repeatedly been told by
his ecclesiastical superiors he might hold as much as he
pleased. I think it is easy to believe that among per­
sons so little careful to reconcile public profession with
private conviction, official decorum was all that was
demanded. When Galileo had made his renunciation of
the earth’s motion on his knees, he rose and said, as we
are told, E pur simuove—“ and yet it does m
This is sometimes represented as the heroic soliloquy of
a mind cherishing its conviction of the truth, in spite of
persecution; I think we may more naturally conceive it
uttered as a playful epigram in the ear of a cardinal’s
secretary, with a full knowledge that it would be imme­
diately repeated to his master*.
Besides the Ideas involved in the material sciences,
* I have somewhat further discussed the case of Galileo in the
second edition of the History, Vol. i. p. 418, and Notes (q) and (r).
Digitized by Google
7 0 0 PHILOSOPHY OF PALABTIOLOGY.
of which we have already examined the principal ones,
there is one Idea or Conception which our Sciences do
not indeed include, but to which they not obscurely
point; and the importance of this Idea will make it
proper to speak of it, though this must be done very
briefly.
C h a p t e r V.
OF THE CONCEPTION OF A FIRST CAUSE.
1. At the end of the last chapter but one, we were led
to this result,—that we cannot, in any of the Palaetiolo-
gical Sciences, ascend to a beginning which is of the same
nature as the existing cause of events, and which depends
upon causes that are still in operation. Philosophers
never have demonstrated, and probably never will be
able to demonstrate, what was the original condition of
the solar system, ofthe earth, of the vegetable and animal
worlds, of languages, of arts. On all these subjects the
course of investigation, followed backwards as far as our
materials allow us to pursue it, ends at last in an impe­
netrable gloom. We strain our eyes in vain when we
try, by our natural faculties, to discern an Origin.
2. Yet speculative men have been constantly employed
in attempts to arrive at that which thus seems to be
placed out of their reach. The Origin of Languages, the
Origin of the present Distribution of Plants and Animals,
the Origin of the Earth, have been common subjects of
diligent and persevering inquiry. Indeed inquiries re­
specting such subjects have been, at least till lately, the
usual form which Palsetiological researches have assumed.
Cosmogony, the origin of the world, of which, in such
speculations, the earth was considered as a principal part,
has been a favourite study both of ancient and of modern
Digitized by Googk
CONCEPTION OF A FIRST CAUSE. 701
times: and most of the attempts at Geology previous to
the present period have been Cosmogonies or
rather than that more genuine science which we have
endeavoured to delineate. Again: Glossology, though
now an extensive body of solid knowledge, was mainly
brought into being by inquiries concerning the Original
Language spoken by men; and the nature of the first
separation and diffusion of languages, the first peopling
of the earth by man and by animals, were long sought
after with ardent curiosity, although of course with
reference to the authority of the Scriptures, as well as
the evidence of natural phenomena. Indeed the interest
of such inquiries even yet is far from being extinguished-
The disposition to explore the past in the hope of find­
ing, by the light of natural reasoning as well as by the
aid of revelation, the origin of the present course of
things, appears to be unconquerable. “ What was the
beginning?” is a question which the human race cannot
desist from perpetually asking. And no failure in ob­
taining a satisfactory answer can prevent inquisitive spi­
rits from again and again repeating the inquiry, although
the blank abyss into which it is uttered does not even
return an echo.
3. What, then, is the reason of an attempt so perti­
nacious yet so fruitless? By what motive are we im­
pelled thus constantly to seek what we can never find ?
Why are the errour of our conjectures, the futility of our
reasonings, the precariousness of our interpretations, over
and over again proved to us in vain ? Why is it impos­
sible for us to acquiesce in our ignorance and to relin­
quish the inquiry ? Why cannot we content ourselves
with examining those links of the chain of causes which
are nearest to us;—those in which the connexion is
intelligible and clear; instead of fixing our attention
upon those remote portions w
’here we can no longer
Digitized by Google
7 0 2 PHILOSOPHY OF PALÆTIOLOCîY.
estimate its coherence? In short, why did not men
from the first take for the subject of their specula­
tions the Course of Nature rather than the Origin of
Things ?
To this we reply, that in doing what they have thus
done, in seeking what they have sought, men are im­
pelled by an intellectual necessity. They cannot conceive
a Series of connected occurrences without a Commence­
ment ; they cannot help supposing a cause for the Whole,
as well as a cause for each part; they cannot be satisfied
with a succession of causes without assuming a First
Cause. Such an assumption is necessarily impressed
upon our minds by our contemplation of a series of
causes and effects; that there mmt be a First Cause, is
accepted by all intelligent reasoners as an Axiom: and
like other Axioms, its truth is necessarily implied in the
Idea which it involves.
4. The evidence of this axiom may be illustrated in
several ways. In the first place, the axiom is assumed
in the argument usually offered to prove the existence of
the Deity. Since, it is said, the world now exists, and
since nothing cannot produce something, something must
have existed from eternity. This Something is the First
Cause: it is God.
Now what I have to remark here is this:—the con­
clusiveness of this argument, as a proof of the existence
of one independent, immutable Deity, depends entirely
upon the assumption of the axiom above stated. The
World, a series of causes and effects, exists: therefore
there must be, not only this series of causes and effects,
but also a First Cause. It will be easily seen, that with­
out the axiom, that in every series of causes and effects
there must be a First Cause, the reasoning is altogether
inconclusive.
5. Or to put the matter otherwise: The argument
Digitized by Google
CONCEPTION OF A FIRST CAUSE. 7 0 3
for the existence of the Deity was stated thus: Something
exists, therefore something must have existed from eter­
nity. “Granted,” the opponent might say; “but this
something which has existed from eternity, why may it
not be this very series of causes and effects which is now
going on, and which appears to contain in itself no indi­
cation of beginning or end?” And thus, without the
assumption of the necessity of a First Cause, the force
of the argument may be resisted.
6. But, it may be asked, how do those who have
written to prove the existence of the Deity reply to
such an objection as the one just stated? It is natural
to suppose that, on a subject so interesting and so long
discussed, all the obvious arguments with their replies,
have been fully brought into view. What is the result
in this case ?
The principal modes of replying to the above objec­
tion, that the series of causes and effects which now
exists, may have existed from eternity, appear to be
these.
In the first place, our minds cannot be satisfied with
a series of successive, dependent, causes and effects,
without something first and independent. We pass from
effect to cause, and from that to a higher cause, in search
of something on which the mind can rest; but if we can
do nothing but repeat this process, there is no use in it.
We move our limbs, but make no advance. Our ques­
tion is not answered, but evaded. The mind cannot
acquiesce in the destiny thus presented to it, of being
referred from event to event, from object to object, along
an interminable vista of causation and time. Now this
mode of stating the reply,—to say that the mind cannot
thus be satisfied, appears to be equivalent to saying that
the mind is conscious of a Principle, in virtue of which
such a view as this must be rejected;—the mind takes
Digitized by Googk
7 0 4 PHILOSOPHY OF PALÆTIOLOGY.
refuge in the assumption of a First Cause, from an
employment inconsistent with its own nature.
7. Or again, we may avoid the objection, by putting
the argument for the existence of a Deity in this form:
The series of causes and effects which we call the ,
or the course of n
a
t
u
r
e
, may be considered as a wh
and this whole must have a cause of its existence. The
whole collection of objects and events may be compre­
hended as a single effect, and of this effect there must be
a cause. This Cause of the Universe must be superior
to, and independent of the special events, which, happen­
ing in time, make up the universe of which He is the
cause. He must exist and exercise causation, before
these events can begin: He must be the First Cause.
Although the argument is here somewhat modified
in form, the substance is the same as before. For the
assumption that we may consider the whole series of
causes and effects as a single effect, is equivalent to the
assumption that besides partial causes we must have a
First Cause. And thus the Idea of a First Cause, and
the axiom which asserts its necessity, are recognized in
the usual argumentation on this subject.
8. This Idea of a First Cause, and the principle
involved in the Idea, have been the subject of discussion
in another manner. As we have already said, we assume
as an axiom that a First Cause must exist; and we assert
that God, the First Cause, exists eternal and immutable,
by the necessity which the axiom implies. Hence God
is said to exist necessarily;—to be a necessarily existing
being. And when this necessary existence of God had
been spoken of, it soon began to be contemplated as a
sufficient reason, and as an absolute demonstration of His
existence; without any need of referring to the world as
an effect, in order to arrive at God as the cause. And
thus men conceived that they had obtained a proof of
Digitized by Google
CONCEPTION OF A FIRST CAUSE. 705
the existence of the Deity, d priori, from Ideas, as well
as d posteriori, from Effects.
9. Thus, Thomas Aquinas employs this reasoning to
prove the eternity of God*. “ Oportet ponere aliquod
primum necessarium quod est per se ipsum necessarium;
et hoc est Deus, cum sit prima causa ut dictum est: igitur
Deus seternus est, cum omne necessarium per se sit aeter-
num.” It is true that the schoolmen never professed to
be able to prove the existence of the Deity d p rio ri: but
they made use of this conception of necessary existence
in a manner which approached very near to such an
attempt. Thus Suarezf discusses the question, “ Utrum
aliquo modo possit d priori demonstrari Deum esse.”
And resolves the question in this manner: “ Ad hunc
ergo modum dicendum est: Demonstrato d posteriori
Deum esse ens necessarium et a se, ex hoc attributo
posse d priori demonstrari praeter illud non posse esse
aliud ens necessarium et a se, et consequenter demon­
strari Deum esse.”
But in modem times attempts were made by Des­
cartes and Samuel Clarke, to prove the Divine exist­
ence at once d píñori,from the conception of necessar
existence; which, it was argued, could not subsist with­
out actual existence. This argumentation was acutely
and severely criticized by Dr. Waterland.
10. Without dwelling upon a subject, the discussion of
which does not enter into the design of the present work,
I may remark that the question whether an d priori proof
of the existence of a First Cause be possible, is a ques­
tion concerning the nature of our Ideas, and the evidence
of the axioms which they involve, of the same kind as
many questions which we have already had to discuss.
Is our Conception or Idea of a First Cause gathered from
* Aquin. Contr. Gentil. Lib. i. c. xiv. p. 21.
t Metaphy*. Tom. n. I)isp. xxix. sect. 3, p. 28.
vol. i. w . r. Zz
Digitized by Googk
706 PHILOSOPHY OF PAL^TIOLOGY.
the effects we see around us? It is plain that we must
answer, here as in other cases, that the Idea is not
extracted from the phenomena, but assumed in order that
the phenomena may become intelligible to the mind;—
that the Idea is a necessary one, inasmuch as it does not
depend upon observation for its evidence; but that it
depends upon observation for its developement, since
without some observation, we cannot conceive the mind
to be cognizant of the relation of causation at all. In
this respect, however, the Idea of a First Cause is no less
necessary than the ideas of Space, or Time, or Cause in
general. And whether we call the reasoning derived
from such a necessity an argument priori or d posteri­
ori, in either case it possesses the genuine character of
demonstration, being founded upon axioms which com­
mand universal assent.
1 1 .1 have, however, spoken of our Conception rather
than of our Idea of a First Cause; for the notion of a
First Cause appears to be rather a modification of the
Fundamental Idea of Cause, which was formerly dis­
cussed, than a separate and peculiar Idea. And the
Axiom, that there must he a First Cause, is recognized
by most persons as an application of the general Axiom
of Causation, that every effect must have a cause; this
latter Axiom being applied to the world, considered in
its totality, as a single effect. This distinction, however,
between an Idea and a Conception, is of no material
consequence to our argument; provided we allow the
maxim, that there must be a First Cause, to be neces­
sarily and evidently true; whether it be thought better
to speak of it as an independent Axiom, or to consider
it as derived from the general Axiom of Causation.
12. Thus we necessarily infer a First Cause, although
the Palaetiological Sciences only point towards it, and do
not lead us to it. But I must observe further; that in
Digitized by Googk
CONCEPTION OF A FIRST CAUSE. 707
each of the series of events which form the subject of
Palaetiological research, the First Cause is the same.
Without here resting upon reasoning founded upon our
Conception of a First Cause, I may remark that this
identity is proved by the close connexion of all the
branches of natural science, and the way in which the
causes and the events of each are interwoven with those
which belong to the others. We must needs believe
that the First Cause which produced the earth and its
atmosphere is also the Cause of the plants which clothe
its surface; that the First Cause of the vegetable and of
the animal world are the same; that the First Cause
which produced light produced also eyes; that the First
Cause which produced air and organs of articulation pro­
duced also language and the faculties by which language
is rendered possible: and if those faculties, then also all
man’s other faculties;—the powers by which, as we have
said, he discerns right and wrong, and recognizes a pro­
vidential as well as a natural course of things. Nor can
we think otherwise than that the Being who gave these
faculties, bestowed them for some purpose;—bestowed
them for that purpose which alone is compatible with
their nature:—the purpose, namely, of guiding and ele­
vating man in his present career, and of preparing him
for another state of being to which they irresistibly direct
his hopes. And thus, although, as we have said, no one
of the Palaetiological Sciences can be traced continuously
to an Origin, yet they not only each point to an Origin,
but all to the same Origin. Their lines are broken indeed,
as they run backwards into the early periods of the world,
but yet they all appear to converge to the same invisible
point. And this point, thus indicated by the natural
course of things, can be no other than that which is
disclosed to us as the starting point of the providential
course of the world; for we are persuaded by such reasons
as have just been hinted, that the Creator of the natural
Digitized by Googk
708 PHILOSOPHY OF PALffiTIOLOGY.
world can be no other than the Author and Governor
and Judge of the moral and spiritual world.
13. Thus we are led, by our material sciences, and
especially by the Palaetiological class of them, to the
borders of a higher region, and to a point of view from
which we have a prospect of other provinces of know­
ledge, in which other faculties of man are concerned
besides his intellectual, other interests involved besides
those of speculation. On these it does not belong to our
present plan to dwell: but even such a brief glance as
we have taken of the connexion of material with moral
speculations may not be useless, since it may serve to
show that the principles of truth which we are now labo­
riously collecting among the results of the physical sci­
ences, may possibly find some application in those parts
of. knowledge towards which men most naturally look
with deeper interest and more serious reverence.
We have been employed up to the present stage
of this work in examining the materials of knowledge,
namely, Facts and Ideas; and we have dwelt particularly
upon the latter element; inasmuch as the consideration
of it is, on various accounts, and especially at the present
time, by far the most important. We have now to pro­
ceed to the remainder of our task;—to determine the
processes by which those materials may actually be made
to constitute knowledge. We have surveyed the stones
of our building: we have found them exactly squared,
and often curiously covered with significant imagery and
important inscriptions. We have now to discover how
they may best be fitted into their places, and cemented
together, so that rising stage above stage, they may grow
at last into that fair and lofty temple of Truth for which
we cannot doubt that they were intended by the Great
Architect.
END OF VOLUME I.
Digitized by Googk
THE
PHILOSOPHY
OF THE
INDUCTIVE SCIENCES,
FOUNDED UPON THEIR HISTORY.
BY WILLIAM WHEWELL, D.D.,
M A ST E R OF T R I N I T Y COLLEGE. CAMBRIDGE.
A N EW E D ITIO N ,
WITH CORRECTIONS AND ADDITIONS, AND
AN APPENDIX, CONTAINING
PHILOSOPHICAL ESSAYS PREVIOUSLY PUBLISHED.
IN TWO VOLUMES.
Aaunóita f^ovrti &
t
a
òAXijXo
VOLUME THE SECOND.
LONDON:
JO H N W. PA R K E R , W E ST STRAND.
M.DCCC.XiVlL
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
CONTENTS
OP
THE SECOND VOLUME.
PART II.
O F K N O W L E D G E .
BOOK XI.
OF THE CONSTRUCTION OF SCIENCE.
Pauk
C hap. I. Of T wo Principal P rocesses by which Science is
Chap. II. 1
Constructed . . . . . .
Of the Explication of Conceptions . . .
Sect. I. The Historical Progress.
Art. 1. The Explication of Conceptions,
2. Has taken place historically by discussions.
3. False Doctrines when exposed appear impossible:
4. But were plausible before
5. Men’s Minds gradually cleared.
Sect. II. Use of Definitions.
A rt. 6. Controversies about Definitions.
7. Not arbitrary Definitions.
8. Attention to Facts requisite.
9. Definition is not essential.
10. The omission of Definition not always blameable.
Sect. III. Use of Axioms.
Art. 11. Axioms serve to express Ideas.
Sect. IV. Clear and Appropriate Ideas.
Art. 12. We must see the Axioms clearly.
13. Inappropriate Ideas cannot lead to Truth.
14. The fault is in the Conceptions.
15. Rules cannot teach Discovery;
16. But are not useless.
17. Discussion as well as Facts needed.
VOL. II. w . r. h
384212
IV CONTENTS OF
Sect. V. Accidental Discoveries.
Art. 18. No Scientific Discovery is accidental.
19. Such accidents do not happen to common Men.
20. Examples.
21. So far Explication of Conceptions.
Chap. III. Of F acts as the M aterials of Science
P a o i
26
Art. 1. Facts must be true.
2. Facts not separable from Ideas.
3. The Ideas must be distinct.
4. Conceptions of the Intellect only to be admitted.
5. Facts are to be observed with reference to Space and
Time:
6. And also to other Ideas.
7. The Decomposition of Facts.
8. This Btep is not sufficient.
9. It introduces technical Terms,
10. And Classification.
11. These are the materials of Science.
OnAP. IV. Of tiie Colligation of F acts . . . .
Art. 1. Facts are colligated by Conceptions.
2. Science begins with common Observation.
3. Facts must be decomposed.
4. What Ideas first give Sciences.
5. Facts must be referred to Ideas.
6. Sagacity needed.
7. Discovery made by Guesses.
8. False Hypotheses preluding to true ones.
9. New Hypotheses not mere modifications of old ones.
10. Hypotheses may have superfluous parts.
11. Hypotheses to be compared with Facts.
12. Secondary Steps.
36
Chap. V. Of certain Characteristics of Scientific Induc­
tion . ............................................................................46
Sect. I. Invention a part of Induction.
A rt. 1. Induction the Bource of Knowledge.
2. Induction involves a New Element.
3. Meaning of Induction.
4. The New Element is soon forgotten.
5. Induction includes a Definition and a Proposition.
Digitized by Google
THE SECOND VOLUME. V
Paqk
Sect. II. Use of Hypotheses.
A rt. 6. Discoveries made by Guesses.
7- Which must be compared with Facts.
8. Hypotheses are suspected.
9. Hypotheses may be useful though inaccurate.
Sect. III. Tests of Hypotheses.
10. True Hypotheses foretel Phenomena,
11. Even of different kinds.—Consilience of Inductions.
12. True Theories tend to Simplicity.
13. Connexion of the last Tests.
Chap. VI. Op the Logic of Induction . . . . . 74
Art. 1. Steps of Generalization.
2. May be expressed by Tables,
3. Which exhibit Inductive 8teps;
4. And the Consilience of Inductions;
5. And the tendency to Simplicity;
6. And the names of Discoverers;
7. And the Verifications of Theory,
8. By means of several easy Steps.
9. This resembles Book-keeping.
10. The Logic of Induction.
11. Attention at each step required.
12. General Truths are not mere additions of particulars :
13. But a new view is introduced.
14. Formula of Inductive Logic:
15. May.rcfer to Definition.
16. Formula inadequate.
17- Deductive Connexion of Steps.
18. Relation of Deductive and Inductive Reasoning.
19. The Criterion of Truth.
20. Theory and Fact.
21. Higher and Lower Generalizations.
C h ap. VII. Op Laws op Phenomena and op Causes . . 95
A rt. 1. Knowledge of Laws of Phenomena.
2. Formal and Physical Sciences.
3. Causes in Astronomy.
4. Different Mechanical Causes in other Sciences.
5. Chemical and Vital Forces as Causes.
6. Differences of these kinds of Force.
7- Difficulty of conceiving new Causes.
¿2
VI CONTENTS OF
Art. 8. Men willingly take old Causes.
9. Is the Magnetic Fluid real?
10. Are Causes to be sought? (Comte's Doctrine,
11. Both Laws and Causes to be studied.
Chap. VIII. Of Art and Science . . . .
ArtA . Art precedes Science.
2. Contrast of Art and Science.
3. Instinct and Insight.
4. Difference of Art and Instinct.
5. Does Art involve Science?
6. Science unfolds Principles.
7. Science may improve Art.
8. Arts not classified with Sciences.
Chap. IX. Of the Classification of Sciences . .
Art. 1. Use and Limits of such Classification.
2. Classification depends on the Ideas.
3. This points out Transitions.
4. The Classification.
Inductive Table op Astronomy .
Inductive Table of Optics ,
Page
106
113
118
119
BOOK X II.
REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON THE NATURE OF KNOWLEDGE,
AND THE METHOD OF SEEKING IT.
Chap. I. I ntroduction..............................................................................119
Chap. II. P l a t o .................................................................................... 122
Chap. III. A r i s t o t l e ........................................................................... 128
Chap. IV . T he L ater G r e e k s ......................................................134
Chap. V. T he Rom ans...............................................................................137
Chap. VI. T he Schoolmen of t
he M iddle A ges . . 141
Chap. V II. The Innovators o f the M iddle Ages . . 155
Art. 1. General Remarks.
2. Raymond Lully.
3. Roger Bacon.
Chap. V III. T he R evival of P latonism . . . . 1 7 4
Art. 1. Causes of Delay in Knowledge.
2. Causes of Progress.
THE SECOND VOLUME. V II
Art. 3. Hermolaus Barbarus, &c.
4. Nicolaus Cusanua.
5. Marsiliua Ficinua.
6. Franciscua Patricius.
7* Picus, Aggrippa, &c.
8. Paracelsus, Fludd, &c.
C h a p . IX. The T heoretical R eformers of Science
Art. 1. Beraardinus Teleaius.
2. Thomas Campanella.
3. Andreas Caesalpinus.
4. Giordano Bruno.
5. Peter Ramus.
6. Melancthon. *
P a o k
189
C h ap. X. The Practical Reformers of Science . . . 203
Art. 1. Character of Practical Reformers.
2. Leonardo da Vinci.
3. Copernicus.
4. Fabricius.
5. Maurolycus.
6. Benedetti.
7. Gilbert.
8. Galileo.
9. Kepler.
10. Tycho.
CnAP. XI. F rancis B acon . . . . . . 226
Art. 1. Common estimate of him.
2. We consider only Physical Science.
3. He is placed at the head of the change:
4- And justly.
5. (I.) He proclaims a New Era
6. (II.) By a change of Method;
7- Including successive Steps;
8. Gradually ascending.
9. (III.) He contrasts the Old and the New Method.
10. (IV.) Has he neglected Ideas ?
11. No.
12. Examples of Ideas treated by him.
13. He has failed in applying his Method
14. (V.) To the Cause of Heat.
viii CONTENTS OF
A rt. 15. He seeks Causes before Laws.
16. (VI.) His Technical Form worthies*.
17- He is confused by words.
18. His * Instances.”
19. Contain some good Suggestions.
20. (VII.) His “Idols."
21. (V III.) His view of Utility.
22. (IX.) His Hopefulness. '
23. (X.) His Piety.
Chap. X II. F rom B acon to N e w t o n ......................................252
Art. 1. Harvey.
2. Descartes.
3. Gassendi.
4. Actual Progress.
5. Otto Guericke, &c.
6. Hooke.
7* Royal Society.
8. Bacon’s New Atalantis.
9. Cowley.
Chap. X III. N e w t o n ...................................................................274
Art. 1. Animating effect of his Discoveries.
2. They confirm Bacons views.
3. Newton shuns Hypotheses.
4. His views of Inductive Philosophy.
5. His “ Rules of Philosophizing-*
6. The First Rule.
7- What is a “ True Cause V
8. Such as are real?
9. Or those which are proved ?
10. Use of the Rule.
11. Rule otherwise expressed.
12. The Second Rule :
13. What are Events “ of the same kind?”
14. The Third Rule :
15. Not safe.
16. The Fourth Rule.
17. Occult Qualities
18. Ridiculod.
19. Distinction of Laws and Causes.
THE SECOND VOLUME.
Ch a p. X IV . Locke and his F rench F ollowers
PAO*
295
IX
Art. 1. Cause of Locked popularity.
2. Sensational School.
3. His inconsistencies.
4. Condillac, &c.
5. Importance of Language.
6. Ground of this.
7- The Encyclopedists.
a Helvetius.
9. Value of Arts.
10. Tendency to Reaction.
Ch a p . XV. T he Reaction against the Se
A rt. 1. wNisi intellects ipse/*
2. Price’s “ Review.”
a Stewart defends Price.
4. Archbishop Whately.
5. Laromigui^re.
a M. Cousin.
7. M. Ampere.
8. His Classification of Sciences.
9. Kant’s Reform of Philosophy.
10. Its Effect in Germany.
C h a p . X V I. F urther A dvance op the Sensational School 320
M. Auguste Comte.
BOOK X III.
OF METHODS EMPLOYED IN THE FORMATION OF
SCIENCE.
C h a p. I. Introduction...................................................................334
Art. 1. Object of this Book.
2. An Art of Discovery not possible.
3. Use of Methods.
4. Series of Six ^Processes.
5. Methods of Observation and Induction.
C h a p . II. Of M ethods of Observation . . . . 337
A rt. 1. Referring to Number, Space, and Time.
2. Observations aro never perfect.
X CONTENTS OF
Art. 3. (I.) Number is naturally exact.
4. (II.) Measurement of Space.
5. Instruments Invented in Astronomy,
6. And improved.
7- Goniometer.
8. Standard of Length.
10. (III.) Measurement of Time.
11. Unit of Time.
12. Transit Instrument.
13. Chronometers.
14. (IV.) Conversion of Space and Time.
15. Space may Measure Time.
16. Time may Measure Space.
17- (V.) The Method of Repetition.
18. The Method of Coincidences.
19. Applied to Pendulums.
20. (VI.) Measurement of Weight.
21. Standard of Weight.
22. (VII.) Measurement of Secondary Qualities.
23. “ The Howl" in Harmonics.
24. (VIII.) Manipulation.
25. Examples in Optics.
26. (IX.) The Education of the Senses,
27- By the Study of Natural History.
28. Preparation for Ideas.
P a o k
Chap. III.
Art. 1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
Of Methods of A cquiring Clear Scientific
Ideas; and first of Intellectual E ducation . 358
(I.) Idea of Space.
Education by Geometry.
(II.) Idea of Number.
Effect of the usual Education.
(III.) Idea of Force.
Study of Mechanics needed,
To make Newton intelligible.
No Popular Road.
(IV.) Chemical Ideas.
(V.) Natural History Ideas.
Natural Classes to be taught.
Mathematical Prejudices,
To be corrected by Natural History.
Method of Natural History,
THE SECOND VOLUME. XI
PAQ K
Art. 15. Resembles common Language.
16. Its Lessons.
17- (VI.) Well-established Idea* alone to be used,
18. How are Ideas cleared ?
Chap. IV. Op M ethods op Acquiring Clear Scientific I deas, *
continued.—Op the D iscussion of Ideas . 374
A rt, 1. Successive Clearness,
2. Produced by Discussion.
3. Examples.
4. Disputes not useless,
5. Although “ metaphysical.”
6. Connected with Facts.
Chap. V. A nalysis op the P rocess op I nduction
Seel. I.
A rt. 1.
2.
3.
4.
Sect, II.
Art. 5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
The Three Steps of Induction.
Methods may be useful.
The three Steps.
Examples.
Mathematical names of the Steps.
Of the Selection of the Fundamental Idea.
Examples.
The Idea to be found by trying,
Till the Discovery is made;
Preluded by Guesses.
Idea and Facts homogeneous.
Idea tested by the Facts.
. 380
Chap. VI.
A rt. 1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
G eneral Rules for the Construction of the
Co n c e p t i o n ................................................................ 389
First : for Quantity.
Formula and Coefficients found together.
Example. Law of Cooling.
Determined by Experiment.
Progressive Series of Numbers.
Recurrent Series.
Use of Hypotheses.
Even with this there are Difficulties.
C h a p. V II. Special M ethods of Induction A pplicable to
Q u a n t i t y ................................................................ 395
Sect. I. The Method of Curtes.
Art. 1. Its Process.
Digitized by Googk
Xll C0NTENT8 OF
Art. 2 Its Use.
3. With imperfect Observations.
4. It corrects Observations.
5. Obstacle9. (I.) Ignorance of the Argument.
. 6 (II.) Combination of Laws.
Sect. II. The Method of Means.
A rt. 7- Its Relation to the Method of Curves.
8. Its process.
9. Argument required to be known.
10. Use of the Method.
11. Large masses of Observations used.
12. Proof of the Use of the Method.
Sect. III. The Method of Least Squares
Art. 13. Is a Method of Means.
14. Example.
Sect. IV. The Method of Residues.
A rt. 15. Occasion for its Use.
16. Its Process.
17. Examples.
18. Its Relation to the Method of Means.
19. Example.
20. “ Residual Phenomena."
Chap. V III. Methods of Induction D epending on Rbbembi
Sect. I. The Law of Continuity.
1. Its Nature and Application,
2. To Falling Bodies,
3. To Hard Bodies,
4. To Gravitation.
5. The Evidence.
Sect. II. The Method of Gradation.
.dr/. 6. Occasions of its Use.
7. Examples.
8. Not enjoined by Bacon.
9. Other Examples.
10. Its Value in Geology.
11. Limited Results.
Sect. III. The Method of Natural Classification.
Art. 12. Examples of its Use.
412
THE SECOND VOLUME. Xlll
Art. 13. Its Process.
14. Negative Results.
15. Is opposed to Arbitrary Definitions.
16. Propositions and Definitions correlative.
J7. Definitions only provisional.
C hap. IX. Of the A pplication of Inductive T ruths
Art. 1. This forms the Sequel of Discovery.
2. Systematic Verification of Discoveries.
3. Correction of Coefficients.
4. Astronomy a Model.
5. Verification by n^v cases.
6. Often requires fresh calculation.
7. Cause of Dew.
a LTseful Applications.
C h a p. X. Of the I nduction of Causes . .
A rt. 1. Is to be pursued.
2. Induction of Substance.
3. Induction of Force.
4. Induction of Polarity.
5. Is Gravity Polar?
6. Induction of Ulterior Causes.
7. Of the Supremo Cause.
Paos
. 425
. 431
APHORISMS:—
A phorisms concerning I deas. (Aph. I — C X III.) . . . 443
A phorisms concerning Science. (Aph. I—LVI.) . . 466
A phorisms concerning the Language of Science . , . 47 9
Aphorism I. Relative to the Ancient Period . . . 460
A rt. 1. Common Words.
2. Descriptive Terms.
3. Theoretical Terms.
Aphorism II. Relative to the Modern Period . . . 49 2
Art. 1. Systematic Nomenclature.
2. Systematic Terminology.
3. Systematic Modification.
Aphorisms (III, IV, V, VI, VII,) relative to the Application
of Common Words . . . . . . 502
Aphorisms (V III, IX , X, XI, X II, X III, XIV,) relative to
the Construction of New Terms . . . 509
XIV CONTENTS OF THE SECOND VOLUME.
Aphorism XV. Relative to the Form of Terms
A rt. 1. Terms derived from Latin and Greek.
2. German Terms.
3. Descriptive Terms.
4. Nomenclature. Zoology.
5. -------------------Mineralogy.
6. ------------------- Botany.
7* ------------------- Chemistry.
8. ------------------- Crystallography.
Aphorism XVI. Relative to the Composition and Inflexion of
Terms . . . * .......................................
Art. 1. Hybrids.
2. Terminations of Substantives.
3. Formations of Substantives (names of things.)
4. Abstract Substantives.
5. Rules of derivation from Greek and Latin.
6. Modification of Terminations.
Aphorism XV II. Relative to the Mode of Introducing Changes
A P P E N D IX .
PHILOSOPHICAL ESSAYS PREVIOUSLY PUBLISHED.
Essay I. On tub N ature op the Truth of the Laws of
Mo t i o n ...........................................................................
Essay II. R emarks on Mathematical Reasoning and on
the Logic of In d u c t i o n ..........................................
Sect* I. On the Grounds of Mathematical Reasoning.
Sect. II. On the Logic of Induction.
Essay III. D emonstration that all Matter is H eavy .
Essay IV. D iscussion of the Q uestion :— Are Cause and
E ffect Successive or Simultaneous? . .
Essay V. On the F undamental A ntithesis of Philosophy .
E ssay VI. R emarks on a Review of the Philosophy of
the Inductive Sc i e n c e s ...........................................
P a o e
538
549
564
573
595
624
635
647
669
PHILOSOPHY
OP THE
INDUCTIVE SCIENCES.
PART II.
OF KNOWLEDGE.
De Scientiis tum demum bene sperandum est, quando
per Scalam veram et per gradua continuos, et non inter-
mis808 aut hiulcos, a particularibus ascendetur ad Axio-
matur minora, et deinde ad media, alia aliis superiora, et
postremò demum ad generalissima.
In constituendo autem Axiomate, Forma Inductionlb alia
quara adhuc in usu fuit, excogitanda est; et queB non ad
Principia tantum (qu® vocant) probanda et invenienda, sed
etiam ad Axiomata minora, et media, denique omnia.
B acon, Nov. Org., Aph. civ. cv.
BOOK XI.
OF TH E CONSTRUCTION OF SCIENCE.
C h a p t e r I.
OF TW O P R IN C IPA L PROCESSES BY W H ICH
SCIENCE IS CONSTRUCTED.
To the subject of the present Book all that has pre­
ceded is subordinate and preparatory. The First Part
of this work treated of Ideas : we now enter upon the
Second Part, in which we have to consider the Know­
ledge which arises from them. It has already been
stated that Knowledge requires us to possess both Facts
and Ideas;—that every step in our knowledge consists
in applying the ideas and conceptions furnished by our
minds to the facts which observation and experiment
offer to us. When our conceptions are clear and dis­
tinct, when our facts are certain and sufficiently numer­
ous, and when the conceptions, being suited to the
nature of the facts, are applied to them so as to produce
an exact and universal accordance, we attain knowledge
of a precise and comprehensive kind, which we may
term Science. And we apply this term to our know­
ledge still more decidedly when, facts beingthus included
in exact and general propositions, such propositions are,
in the same manner, included with equal rigour in pro­
positions of a higher degree of generality ; and these
again in others of a still wider nature, so as to form a
large and systematic whole.
B 2
4 CONSTRUCTION OF SCIENCE.
But after thus stating, in a general way, the nature
of science, and the elements of which it consists, we have
been examining with a more close and extensive scru­
tiny, some of those elements; and we must now return
to our main subject, and apply to it the results of our
long investigation. We have been exploring the realm
of Ideas; we have been passing in review the difficulties
in which the workings of our own minds involve us
when we would make our conceptions consistent with
themselves: and we have endeavoured to get a sight of
the true solutions of these difficulties. We have now to
inquire how the results of these long and laborious
efforts of thought find their due place in the formation
of our knowledge. What do we gain by these attempts
to make our notions distinct and consistent; and in what
manner is the gain of which we thus become possessed,
carried to the general treasure-house of our permanent
and indestructible knowledge? After all this battling
in the world of ideas, all this struggling with the sha­
dowy and changing forms of intellectual perplexity, how
do we secure to ourselves the fruits of our warfare, and
assure ourselves that we have really pushed forwards
the frontier of the empire of Science ? It is by such an
appropriation that the task which we have had in our
hands during the last nine Books of this work, must
acquire its real value and true place in our design.
In order to do this, we must reconsider, in a more
definite and precise shape, the doctrine which has already
been laid down;—that our knowledge consists in apply­
ing Ideas to Facts; and that the conditions of real
knowledge are that the ideas be distinct and appropriate,
and exactly applied to clear and certain facts. The
steps by which our knowledge is advanced are those by
which one or the other of these two processes is ren­
dered more complete;—by which conceptions are made
more dear in themselves, or by which the conceptions
more strictly bind together the facts. These two pro­
cesses may be considered as together constituting the
whole formation of our knowledge; and the principles
which have been established in the preceding Books,
bear principally upon the former of these two operations;
—upon the business of elevating our conceptions to the
highest possible point of precision and generality. But
these two portions of the progress of knowledge are so
clearly connected with each other, that we shall consider
them in immediate succession. And having now to con­
sider these operations in a more exact and formal
manner than it was before possible to do, we shall desig­
nate them by certain constant and technical phrases.
We shall speak of the two processes by which we arrive
at science, as the Explication of Conceptions and the
Colligation of Facts: we shall show how the discussions
in which we have been engaged have been necessary in
order to promote the former of these offices; and we
shall endeavour to point out modes, maxims, and prin­
ciples by which the second of the two tasks may also be
furthered.
TWO PROCESSES BY WHICH SCIENCE IS CONSTRUCTED. 5
Chapter II.
OF THE EXPLICATION OF CONCEPTIONS.
Sect. I.—Its historical Progress.
1. We have given the appellation of Ideas to certain
comprehensive forms of thought,—as , ,
cause, composition, r
e
s
e
m
b
l
a
n
c
e
,—which we apply to the
phenomena which we contemplate. But the special
modifications of these ideas which are exemplified in
6 CONSTRUCTION OF SCIENCE.
particular facts, we have termed Conceptions; as a
c i r c l e ,a square n u m b e r ,an accele
combination of elements, a genus. Such Conceptions
involve in themselves certain necessary and universal
relations derived from the Ideas just enumerated; and
these relations are an indispensable portion of the tex-
tuire of our knowledge. But to determine the contents
and limits of this portion of our knowledge, requires an
examination of the Ideas and Conceptions from which it
proceeds. The Conceptions must be, as it were, care­
fully unfolded, so as to bring into clear view the elements
of truth with which they are marked from their ideal
origin. This is one of the processes by which our know­
ledge is extended and made more exact; and this I shall
describe as the Explication of Conceptions.
In the preceding Books we have discifSsed a great
many of the Fundamental Ideas of the most important
existing sciences. We have, in those Books, abundant
exemplifications of the process now under our considera­
tion. We shall here add a few general remarks, sug­
gested by the survey which we have thus made.
2. Such discussions as those in which we have been
engaged concerning our fundamental Ideas, have been
the course by which, historically speaking, those Con­
ceptions which the existing sciences involve have been
rendered so clear as to be fit elements of exact know­
ledge. The disputes concerning the various kinds and
measures of Force were an important part of the pro­
gress of the science of Mechanics. The struggles by
which philosophers attained a right general conception
of plane, of circular, of elliptical Polarization, were
some of the most difficult steps in the modern discove­
ries of Optics. A Conception of the Atomic Constitution
of bodies, such as shall include what we know, and
assume nothing more, is even now a matter of conflict
EXPLICATION OF CONCEPTIONS. 7
among Chemists. The debates by which, in recent times,
the Conceptions of Species and Genera have been ren­
dered more exact, have improved the science of Botany:
the imperfection of the science of Mineralogy arises in a
great measure from the circumstance, that in that sub­
ject, the Conception of a Species is not yet fixed. In
physiology, what a vast advance would that philosopher
make, who should establish a precise, tenable, and con­
sistent Conception of L ife!
Thus discussions and speculations concerning the
import of very abstract and general terms and notions,
may be, and in reality have been, far from useless and
barren. Such discussions arose from the desire of men
to impress their opinions on others, but they had the
effect of making the opinions much more clear and dis­
tinct. In trjing to make others understand them, they
learnt to understand themselves. Their speculations
were begun in twilight, and ended in the full brilliance
of day. It was not easily and at once, without expen­
diture of labour or time, that men arrived at those
notions which now form the elements of our knowledge;
on the contrary, we have, in the history of science, seen
how hard discoverers, and the forerunners of discoverers,
have had to struggle with the indistinctness and obscu­
rity of the intellect, before they could advance to the
critical point at which truth became clearly visible.
And so long as, in this advance, some speculators were
more forward than others, there was a natural and
inevitable ground of difference of opinion, of argumen­
tation, of wrangling. But the tendency of all such con­
troversy is to diffuse truth and to dispel errour. Truth
is consistent, and can bear the tug of war; Errour is
incoherent, and falls to pieces in the struggle. True
Conceptions can endure the sun, and become clearer as
a fuller light is obtained; confused and inconsistent
8 CONSTRUCTION OF SCIENCE.
notions vanish like visionary spectres at the break of a
brighter day. And thus all the controversies concern­
ing such Conceptions as science involves have ever
ended in the establishment of the side on which the
truth was found.
3. Indeed, so complete has been the victory of truth
in most of these instances, that at present we can hardly
imagine the struggle to have been necessary. The very
essence of these triumphs is that they lead us to regard
the views we reject as not only false, but inconceivable.
And hence we are led rather to look back upon the van­
quished with contempt than upon the victors with gra­
titude. We now despise those who in the Copernican
controversy could not conceive the apparent motion of
the sun on the heliocentric hypothesis;—or those who,
in opposition to Galileo, thought that a uniform force
might be that which generated a velocity proportional
to the space;—or those who held there was something
absurd in Newton’s doctrine of the different refrangi-
bility of differently coloured rays;—or those who ima­
gined that when elements combine, their sensible qualities
must be manifest in the compound;—or those who were
reluctant to give up the distinction of vegetables into
herbs, shrubs, and trees. We cannot help thinking that
men must have been singularly dull of comprehension,
to find a difficulty in admitting what is to us so plain
and simple. We have a latent persuasion that we in
their place should have been wiser and more clear­
sighted ;—that we should have taken the right side, and
given our assent at once to the truth.
4. Yet in reality, such a persuasion is a mere delu­
sion. The persons who, in such instances as the above,
were on the losing side, were very far, in most cases,
from being persons more prejudiced, or stupid, or nar­
row-minded, than the greater part of mankind now are;
EXPLICATION OF CONCEPTIONS. 9
and the cause for which they fought was far from being
a manifestly bad one, till it had been so decided by the
result of the war. It is the peculiar character of scien­
tific contests, that what is only an epigram with regard
to other warfare is a truth in this;—They who are
defeated are really in the wrong. But they may, never­
theless, be men of great subtilty, sagacity, and genius;
and we nourish a very foolish self-complacency when we
suppose that we are their superiors. That this is so, is
proved by recollecting that many of those who have
made very great discoveries have laboured under the
imperfection of thought which was the obstacle to the
next step in knowledge. Though Kepler detected with
great acuteness the Numerical Laws of the solar system,
he laboured in vain to conceive the very simplest of the
Laws of Motion by which the paths of the planets are
governed. Though Priestley made some important steps
in chemistry, he could not bring his mind to admit the
doctrine of a general Principle of Oxidation. How
many ingenious men in the last century rejected the
Newtonian Attraction as an impossible chimera! How
many more, equally intelligent, have, in the same man­
ner, in our own time, rejected, I do not now mean as
false, but as inconceivable, the doctrine of Luminiferous
Undulations! To err in this way is the lot, not only of
men in general, but of men of great endowments, and
very sincere love of truth.
5. And those who liberate themselves from such per­
plexities, and who thus go on in advance of their age in
such matters, owe their superiority in no small degree to
such discussions and controversies as those to which we
now refer. In such controversies, the conceptions in
question are turned in all directions, examined on all
sides; the strength and the weakness of the maxims
which men apply to them are fully tested; the light of
10 CONSTRUCTION OF SCIENCE.
the brightest minds is diffused to others. Inconsistency
is unfolded into self-contradiction; axioms are built up
into a system of necessary truths; and ready exempli­
fications are accumulated of that which is to be proved
or disproved concerning the ideas which are the basis of
the controversy.
The History of Mechanics from the time of Kepler
to that of Lagrange, is perhaps the best exemplification
of the mode in which the progress of a science depends
upon such disputes and speculations as give clearness
and generality to its elementary conceptions. This, it is
to be recollected, is the kind of progress of which we
are now speaking; and this is the principal feature in
the portion of scientific history which we have men­
tioned. For almost all that was to be done by reference
to observation, was executed by Galileo and his disciples.
What remained was the task of generalization and sim­
plification. And this was promoted in no small degree
by the various controversies which took place within
that period concerning mechanical conceptions:—as, for
example, the question concerning the measure of the
Force of Percussion;—the war of the Vis Viva ;—the
controversy of the Center of Oscillation;— of the inde­
pendence of Statics and Dynamics;— of the principle of
Least Action;— of the evidence of the Laws of Motion;
—and of the number of Laws really distinct. None of
these discussions was without its influence in giving
generality and clearness to the mechanical ideas of
mathematicians: and therefore, though remote from
general apprehension, and dealing with very abstract
notions, they were of eminent use in the perfecting the
science of mechanics. Similar controversies concerning
fundamental notions, those, for example, which Galileo
himself had to maintain, were no less useful in the
formation of the science of hydrostatics. And the like
EXPLICATION OF CONCEPTIONS. 11
struggles and conflicts, whether they take the form of
controversies between several persons, or only operate in
the efforts and fluctuations of the discoverer’s mind, are
always requisite before the conceptions acquire that
clearness which makes them fit to appear in the enun­
ciation of scientific truth.
This, then, is one object of the preceding Books;—
to bring under the reader’s notice the main elements of
the controversies which have thus had so important a
share in the formation of the existing body of science,
and the decisions on the controverted points to which '
the mature examination of the subject has led; and thus
to give an abundant exhibition of that step which we
terra the Explication of Conceptions.
Sect. II.— Use of Definitions.
6. The result of such controversies as we have been
speaking of, often appears to be summed up in a Defini­
tion ; and the controversy itself has often assumed the
form of a battle of definitions. For example, the inquiry
concerning the Laws of Falling Bodies led to the ques­
tion whether the proper Definition of a uniform force
is, that it generates a velocity proportional to the space
from rest, or to the time. The controversy of the Vis
Viva was, what was the proper Definition of the mea­
sure offorce. A principal question in the classification
of minerals is, what is the Definition of a mineral spe­
cies. Physiologists have endeavoured to throw light
on their subject, by Defining , or some
similar term.
7. It is very important for us to observe, that these
controversies have never been questions of insulated and
arbitrary Definitions, as men seem often tempted to
suppose them to have been. In all cases there is a tacit
assumption of some Proposition which is to be expressed
1 2 CONSTRUCTION OF SCIENCE.
by means of the Definition, and which gives it its im­
portance. The dispute concerning the Definition thus
acquires a real value, and becomes a question concerning
true and false. Thus in the discussion of the question,
What is a Uniform Force ? it was taken for granted that
“gravity is a uuiform fo r c e —in the debate of the
Viva, it was assumed that “ in the mutual action of
bodies the whole effect of the force is unchanged—in
the zoological definition of Species, (that it consists of
individuals which have, or may have, sprung from the
same parents,) it is presumed that “ individuals so related
resemble each other more than those which are excluded
by such a definitionor perhaps, that “ species so de­
fined have permanent and definite differences.” A defi­
nition of Organization, or of any other term, which was
not employed to express some principle, would be of no
value.
The establishment, therefore, of a right Definition of
a Term may be a useful step in the explication of our
conceptions; but this will be the case then only when
we have under our consideration some Proposition in
which the Term is employed. For then the question
really is, how the Conception shall be understood and
defined in order that the Proposition may be true.
8. The establishment of a Proposition requires an
attention to observed Facts, and can never be rightly
derived from our Conceptions alone. We must hereafter
consider the necessity which exists that the Facts should
be rightly bound together, as well as that our Concep­
tions should be clearly employed, in order to lead us to
real knowledge. But we may observe here that, in such
cases at least as we are now considering, the two pro­
cesses are co-ordinate. To unfold our Conceptions by
the means of Definitions, has never been serviceable to
science, except when it has been associated with an
EXPLICATION OF CONCEPTIONS. 13
immediate useof the Definitions. The endeavour to
define a Uniform Force was combined with the assertion
that “ gravity is a uniform fo r c e th e attempt to define
Accelerating Force was immediately followed by the
doctrine that “ accelerating forces may be compounded
the process of defining Momentum was connected with
the principle that “ momenta gained and lost are equal
naturalists would have given in vain the Definition of
Species which we have quoted, if they had not also given
the “ characters” of species so separated. Definition
and Proposition are the two handles of the instrument
by which we apprehend truth; the former is of no use
without the latter. Definition may be the best mode of
explaining our Conception, but that which alone makes
it worth while to explain it in any mode, is the oppor­
tunity of using it in the expression of Truth. When a
Definition is propounded to us as a useful step in know­
ledge, we are always entitled to ask what Principle it
serves to enunciate. If there be no answer to this
inquiry, we define and give clearness to our conceptions
in vain. While we labour at such a task, we do but
light up a vacant room;—we sharpen a knife with which
we have nothing to cut;—we take exact*aim, while we
load our artillery with blank cartridge;—we apply strict
rules of grammar to sentences which have no meaning.
Ifi on the other hand, we have under our considera­
tion a proposition probably established, every step which
we can make in giving distinctness and exactness to the
Terms which this proposition involves, is an important
step towards scientific truth. In such cases, any im­
provement in our Definition is a real advance in the
explication of our Conception. The clearness of our
Expressions casts a light upon the Ideas which we con­
template and convey to others.
9. But though Definition may be subservient to a
14 CONSTRUCTION OF SCJKNCK.
right explication of our conceptions, it is not essential to
that process. It is absolutely necessary to every advance
in our knowledge, that those by whom such advances
are made should possess clearly the conceptions which
they employ : but it is by no means necessary that they
should unfold these conceptions in the words of a formal
Definition. It is easily seen, by examining the course of
Galileo’s discoveries, that he had a distinct conception
of the Moving Forcewhich urges bodies dow
upon an inclined plane, while he still hesitated whether
to call it Momentum, E
n
e
r
g
y
, Impetus, or Fo
did not venture to offer a Definition of the thing which
was the subject of his thoughts. The Conception of
Polarization was clear in the minds of many optical
speculators, from the time of Huyghens and Newton to
that of Young and Fresnel. This Conception we have
defined to be “ Opposite properties depending upon
opposite positions;” but this notion was, by the dis­
coverers, though constantly assumed and expressed by
means of superfluous hypotheses, never clothed in defi­
nite language. And in the mean time, it was the cus­
tom, among subordinate writers on the same subjects, to
say, that the term Polarization had no definite meaning,
and was merely an expression of our ignorance. The
Definition which was offered by Haiiy and others of a
Mineralogical Species ;—“ The same elements combined
in the same proportions, with the same fundamental
form;”—was false, inasmuch as it was incapable of
being rigorously applied to any one case ; but this defect
did not prevent the philosophers who propounded such
a Definition from making many valuable additions to
mineralogical knowledge, in the way of identifying some
species and distinguishing others. The right Concep­
tion which they possessed in their minds prevented
their being misled by their own very erroneous Defini-
EXPLICATION OF CONCEPTIONS. 15
tion. The want of any precis^ Definitions of Strata,
and Formations, and Epochs, among geologists, lias not
prevented the discussions which they have carried on
upon such subjects from being highly serviceable in the
promotion of geological knowledge. For however much
the apparent vagueness of these terms might leave their
arguments open to cavil, there was a general under­
standing prevalent among the most intelligent cultivators
of the science, as to what was meant in such expres­
sions ; and this common understanding sufficed to deter­
mine what evidence should be considered conclusive and
what inconclusive, in these inquiries. And thus the
distinctness of Conception, which is a real requisite of
scientific progress, existed in the minds of the inquirers,
although Definitions, which are a partial and accidental
evidence of this distinctness, had not yet been hit upon.
Die idea had been developed in men’s minds, although
a clothing of words had not been contrived for it, nor,
perhaps, the necessity of such a vehicle felt: and thus
that essential condition of the progress of knowledge of
which we are here speaking existed; while it was left
to the succeeding speculators to put this unwritten Rule
in the form of a verbal Statute.
10. Men are often prone to consider it as a thought­
less omission of an essential circumstance, and as a neg­
lect which involves some blame, when knowledge thus
assumes a form in which Definitions, or rather Concep­
tions, are implied but are not expressed. But in such
a judgment, they assume that to be a matter of choice
requiring attention only, which is in fact as difficult and
precarious as any other portion of the task of discovery.
To define, so that our Definition shall have any scientific
value, requires no small portion of that sagacity by which
truth is detected. As we have already said, Definitions
and Propositions are co-ordinate in their use and in their
16 CONSTRUCTION OF SCIENCE.
origin. In many cases, perhaps in most, the Proposition
which contains a scientific truth, is apprehended with
confidence, but with some vagueness and vacillation,
before it is put in a positive, distinct, and definite form-
It is thus known to be true, before it can be enunciated
in terms each of which is rigorously defined. The busi­
ness of Definition is part of the business of discovery.
When it has been clearly seen what ought to be our
Definition, it must be pretty well known what truth we
have to state. The Definition, as well as the discovery,
supposes a decided step in our knowledge to have been
made. The writers on Logic in the middle ages, made
Definition the last stage in the progress of knowledge;
and in this arrangement at least, the history of science,
and the philosophy derived from the history, confirm
their speculative views. If the Explication of our Con­
ceptions ever assume the form of a Definition, this will
come to pass, not as an arbitrary process, or as a matter
of course, but as the mark of one of those happy efforts
of sagacity to which all the successive advances of our
knowledge are owing.
Sect. III.— Use of Axioms.
11. Our Conceptions, then, even when they become
so clear as the progress of knowledge requires, are not
adequately expressed, or necessarily expressed at all, by
means of Definitions. We may ask, then, whether there
is any other mode of expression in which we may look
for the evidence and exposition of that peculiar exact­
ness of thought which the formation of science demands.
And in answer to this inquiry, we may refer to the pre­
vious discussions respecting many of the Fundamental
Ideas of the sciences. It has there been seen that these
Ideas involve many elementary truths which enter into
the texture of our knowledge, introducing into it connex-
ions and relations of the most important kind, although
these elementary truths cannot be deduced from any
verbal definition of the idea. It has been seen that these
elementary truths may often be enunciated by means of
Axioms, stated in addition to, or in preference to, Defini­
tions. For example, the Idea of Cause, which forms the
basis of the science of Mechanics, makes its appearance
in our elementary mechanical reasonings, not as a Defi­
nition, but by means of the Axioms that “ Causes are
measured by their effects,” and that “ Reaction is equal
and opposite to action.” Such Axioms, tacitly assumed
or occasionally stated, as maxims of acknowledged vali­
dity, belong to all the Ideas which form the foundations
of the sciences, and are constantly employed in the
reasoning and speculations of those who think clearly
on such subjects. It may often be a task of some diffi­
culty to detect and enunciate in words the Principles
which are thus, perhaps silently and unconsciously,
taken for granted by those who have a share in the
establishment of scientific truth : but inasmuch as these
Principles are an essential element in our knowledge,
it is very important to our present purpose to sepa­
rate them from the associated materials, and to trace
them to their origin. This accordingly I have attempted
to do, with regard to a considerable number of the most
prominent of such Ideas, in the preceding Books. The
reader will there find many of these Ideas resolved into
Axioms and Principles by means of which their effect
upon the elementary reasonings of the various sciences
maybe expressed. That part of the Work is intended to
form, in some measure, a representation of the Ideal
Side of our physical knowledge;—a Table of those con­
tents of our Conceptions which are not received directly
from facts;—an exhibition of Rules to which we know
that truth must conform.
C
EXPLICATION' OF CONCEPTIONS. 1 7
VOL. II. W. P.
18 CONSTRUCTION OF SCIENCE.
Sect. IV.— Clear and appropriate Ideas.
12. In order, however, that we may see the necessary
cogency of these rules, we must possess, clearly and
steadily, the Ideas from which the rules flow. In order
to perceive the necessary relations of the Circles of the
Sphere, we must possess clearly the Idea of Solid Space :
—in order that we may see the demonstration of the
composition of forces, we must have the Idea of Cause
moulded into a distinct Conception ofStatical Force. This
is that Clearness qf Ideas which we stipulate for in any
one’s mind, as the first essential condition of his making
any new step in the discovery of truth. And we now see
what answer we are able to give, if we are asked for a
Criterion of this Clearness of Idea. The Criterion is, that
the person shall see the necessity of the Axioms belong­
ing to each Idea;—shall accept them in such a manner as
to perceive the cogency of the reasonings founded upon
them. Thus a person has a clear Idea of Space who
follows the reasonings of geometry and fully apprehends
their conclusiveness. The Explication of Conceptions,
which we are speaking of as an essential part of real
knowledge, is the process by which we bring the Clear­
ness of our Ideas to bear upon the Formation of our
Knowledge. And this is done, as we have now seen,
not always, nor generally, nor principally, by laying
down a Definition of the Conception; but by acquiring
such a possession of it in our minds as enables, indeed
compels us, to admit, along with the Conception, all
the Axioms and Principles which it necessarily implies,
and by which it produces its effect upon our reasonings.
13. But in order that we may make any real
advance in the discovery of truth, our Ideas must not
only be clear, they must also be appropriate. Each
science has for its basis a different class of Ideas; and the
EXPLICATION OF CONCEPTIONS. 19
steps which constitute the progress of one science can
never be made by employing the Ideas of another kind of
science. No genuine advance could ever be obtained in
Mechanics by applying to the subject the Ideas of Space
andTime merely:—no advance in Chemistry, by the use
of mere Mechanical Conceptions:—no discovery in Phy­
siology, by referring facts to mere Chemical and Mecha­
nical Principles. Mechanics must involve the Conception
of Force;—Chemistry, the Conception of Elementary
Composition;— Physiology, the Conception of Vital
Powers. Each science must advance by means of its
appropriate Conceptions. Each has its own field, which
extends as far as its principles can be applied. I have
already noted the separation of several of these fields
by the divisions of the preceding Books. The Mecha­
nical, the Secondary Mechanical, the Chemical, the Clas-
sificatory, the Biological Sciences form so many great
Provinces in the Kingdom of knowledge, each in a great
measure possessing its own peculiar fundamental prin­
ciples. Every attempt to build up a new science by the
application of principles which belong to an old one, will
lead to frivolous and barren speculations.
This truth has been exemplified in all the instances
in which subtle speculative men have failed in their
attempts to frame new sciences, and especially in the
essays of the ancient schools of philosophy in Greece, as
has already been stated in the History of Science. Aris­
totle and his followers endeavoured in vain to account
for the mechanical relation of forces in the lever by
applying the inappropriate geometrical conceptions of
the properties of the circle:—they speculated to no
purpose about the elementary composition of bodies,
because they assumed the inappropriate conception of
likeness between the elements and the compound, in­
stead of the genuine notion of elements merely
c 2
2 0 CONSTRUCTION OK SCIENCE.
mining the qualities of the compound. And in like
manner, in modern times, we have seen, in the history
of the fundamental ideas of the physiological sciences,
how all the inappropinale mechanical and chemical and
other ideas which were applied in succession to the
subject failed in bringing into view any genuine physi­
ological truth.
14. That the real cause of the failure in the instances
above mentioned lay in the Conditions, is plain. It was
not ignorance of the facts which in these cases prevented
the discovery of the truth. Aristotle was as well ac­
quainted with the fact of the proportion of the weights
which balance on a lever as Archimedes was, although
Archimedes alone gave the true mechanical reason for
the proportion.
With regard to the doctrine of the four elements
indeed, the inapplicability of the conception of composi­
tion of qualities, required, perhaps, to be proved by some
reference to facts. But this conception was devised at
first, and accepted by succeeding times, in a blind and
gratuitous manner, which could hardly have happened if
men had been awake to the necessary condition of our
knowledge;—that the conceptions which we introduce
into our doctrines are not arbitrary or accidental notions,
but certain peculiar modes of apprehension strictly deter­
mined by the subject of our speculations.
15. It may, however, be said that this injunction
that we are to employ appropriate Conceptions only in
the formation of our knowledge, cannot be of practical
use, because we can only determine what Ideas are appro­
priate, by finding that they truly combine the facts. And
this is to a certain extent true. Scientific discovery
must ever depend upon some happy thought, of which we
cannot trace the origin;—some fortunate cast of intellect,
rising above all rules. No maxims can be given which
EXPLICATION OF CONCEPTIONS. 21
inevitably lead to discovery. No precepts will elevate a
man of ordinary endowments to the level of a man of
genius : nor will an inquirer of truly inventive mind need
to come to the teacher of inductive philosophy to learn
howto exercise the faculties which nature has given him.
Such persons as Kepler or Fresnel, or Brewster, will have
their powers of discovering truth little augmented by any
injunctions respecting Distinct and Appropriate Ideas;
and such men may very naturally question the utility of
rules altogether.
16. But yet the opinions which such persons may
entertain, will not lead us to doubt concerning the value
of the attempts to analyze and methodize the process of
discovery. Who would attend to Kepler if he had main­
tained that the speculations of Francis Bacon were
worthless? Notwithstanding what has been said, we
may venture to assert that the maxim which points out
the necessity of Ideas appropriate as well as clear, for
the purpose of discovering truth, is not without its use.
It may, at.least, have a value asa caution or prohibition,
and may thus turn us away from labours certain to be
fruitless. We have already seen that this maxim, if duly
attended to, would have at once condemned, as wrongly
directed, the speculations of physiologists of the mathema­
tical, mechanical, chemical, and vital-fluid schools; since
the Ideas which the teachers of these schools introduce,
cannot suffice for the purposes of physiology, which seeks
truths respecting the vital powers. Again, it is clear
from similar considerations that no definition of a mine-
ralogical species by chemical characters alone can answer
the end of science, since we seek to make mineralogy,
not an analytical but a classificatory science*. Even
* Tliis agrees with what M. Necker has well observed in his
*
*Règne M in eralthat those who have treated mineralogy as a merely
chemical science, have substituted the analysis of substances for the
classification of individuals, See above, B. vm . chap. iii.
2 2 CONSTRUCTION OF SCIENCE.
before the appropriate conception is matured in men’s
minds so that they see clearly what it is, they may still
have light enough to see what it is not.
17. Another result of this view of the necessity
of appropriate Ideas, combined with a survey of the his­
tory of science is, that though for the most part, as we
shall see, the progress of science consists in accumulating
and combining Facts rather than in debating concerning
Definitions; there are still certain periods when the dis­
cussion of Definitions may be the most useful mode of cul­
tivating some special branch of science. This discussion
is of course always to be conducted by the light of facts;
and, as has already been said, along with the settlement
of every good Definition will occur the corresponding
establishment of some Proposition. But still at particular
periods, the want of a Definition, or of the clear concep­
tions which Definition supposes, may be peculiarly felt.
A good and tenable Definition of Species in Mineralogy
would at present be perhaps the most important step
which the science could make. A just conception of the
nature of Life, (and if expressed by means of a Definition,
so much the better,) can hardly fail to give its possessor
an immense advantage in the speculations which now
come under the consideration of physiologists. And
controversies respecting Definitions, in these cases, and
such as these, may be very far from idle and unprofit­
able.
Thus the knowledge that Clear and Appropriate Ideas
are requisite for discovery, although it does not lead to
any very precise precepts, or supersede the value of
natural sagacity and inventiveness, may still be of use to
us in our pursuit after truth. It may show us what course
of research is, in each stage of science, recommended by
the general analogy of the history of knowledge; and it
may both save us from hopeless and barren paths of
speculation, and make us advance with more courage and
EXPLICATION OF CONCEPTIONS. 23
confidence, to know that we are looking for discoveries
in the manner in which they have always hitherto been
made.
Sect. V.—Accidental Discoveries.
18. Another consequence follows from the views
presented in this Chapter, and it is the last I shall
at present mention. No sciendiscovery ca
anyjustice, be considered dm to accident. In whatever
manner facts may be presented to the notice of a dis­
coverer, they can never become the materials of exact
knowledge, except they find his mind already provided
with precise and suitable conceptions by which they may
be analyzed and connected. Indeed, as we have already
seen, facts cannot be observed as Facts, except in virtue
of the Conceptions which the observer* himself uncon­
sciously supplies ; and they are not Facts of Observation
for any purpose of Discovery, except these familiar and
unconscious acts of thought be themselves of a just and
precise kind. But supposing the Facts to be adequately
observed, they can never be combined into any new Truth,
except by means of some new Conceptions, clear and ap­
propriate, such as I have endeavoured to characterize.
When the observer’s mind is prepared with such instru­
ments, a very few facts, or it may be a single one, may
bring the process of discovery into action. But in such
cases, this previous condition of the intellect, and not the
single fact, is really the main and peculiar cause of the
success. The fact is merely the occasion by which the
engine of discovery is brought into play sooner or later.
It is, as I have elsewhere said, only the spark which dis­
charges a gun already loaded and pointed ; and there is
little propriety in speaking of such an accident as the
cause why the bullet hits the mark. If it were true that
* Book i. c. ii.
2 4 CONSTRUCTION OF SCIENCE.
the fall of an apple was the occasion of Newton’s pursu­
ing the train of thought which led to the doctrine of
universal gravitation, the habits and constitution of New­
ton’s intellect, and not the apple, were the real source of
this great event in the progress of knowledge. The
common love of the marvellous, and the vulgar desire to
bring down the greatest achievements of genius to our
own level, may lead men to ascribe such results to any
casual circumstances which accompany them ; but no one
who fairly considers the real nature of great discoveries,
and the intellectual processes which they involve, can
seriously hold the opinion of their being the effect of
accident.
19. Such accidents never happen to common men.
Thousands of men, even of the most inquiring and spe­
culative men, had seen bodies fall; but who, except
Newton, ever followed the accident to such consequences?
And in fact, how little of his train of thought was
contained in, or even directly suggested by, the fall of
the apple! If the apple fall, said the discoverer, why
should not the moon, the planets, the satellites, fall?”
But how much previous thought,— what a steady con­
ception of the universality of the laws of motion gathered
from other sources,—were requisite, that the inquirer
should see any connexion in these cases! Was it by
accident that he saw in the apple an image of the moon,
and of every body in the solar system ?
20. The same observations may be made with regard
to the other cases which are sometimes adduced as ex­
amples of accidental discovery. It has been said, “ By
the accidental placing of a rhomb of calcareous spar
upon a book or line Bartholinus discovered the property
of the Double Refractionof light.” But Ba
could have seen no such consequence in the accident if
he had not previously had a clear conception of single
EXPLICATION OF CONCEPTIONS. 25
refraction. A lady, in describing an optical experiment
which had been shown her, said of her teacher, “ He
told me to increase and diminish the angle of refrac­
tion, and at last I found that he only meant me to move
my head up and down.” At any rate, till the lady had
acquired the notions which the technical terms convey,
she could not have made Bartholinus’s discovery by
means of his accident. “ By accidentally combining two
rhombs in different positions,” it is added, “ Huyghens
discovered the Polarization of Light.” Supposing that
this experiment had been made without design, what
Huyghens really observed, was that the images appeared
and disappeared alternately as he turned one of the
rhombs round. But was it an easy or an obvious busi­
ness to analyze this curious alternation into the circum­
stances of the rays of light having sides, as Newton
expressed it, and into the additional hypotheses which
are implied in the term “ polarization ?” Those will be
able to answer this question, who have found how far
from easy it is to understand clearly what is meant by
“polarization” in this case, now that the property is
fully established. Huyghens’s success depended on his
clearness of thought, for this enabled him to perform
the intellectual analysis, which never would have occur­
red to most men, however often they had “ accidentally
combined two rhombs in different positions. “ By acci­
dentally looking through a prism of the same substance,
and turning it round, Malus discovered the polarization
of light by reflection.” Malus saw that, in some posi­
tions of the prism, the light reflected from the windows
of the Louvre thus seen through the prism, became dim.
A common man would have supposed this dimness the
result of accident; but Malus’s mind was differently con­
stituted and disciplined. He considered the position of
the window, and of the prism; repeated the experiment
26 CONSTRUCTION OF SCIENCE.
over and over ; and in virtue of the eminently distinct
conceptions of space which he possessed, resolved the
phenomena into its geometrical conditions. A believer in
accident would not have sought them ; a person of less
clear ideas would not have found them. A person must
have a strange confidence in the virtue of chance, and
the worthlessness of intellect, who can say that “ in all
these fundamental discoveries appropriate ideas had no
share,” and that the discoveries “ might have been made
by the most ordinary observers.”
21. I have now, I trust, shown in various ways, how
the Explication of C
o
n
c
e
p
t
i
o
n
s
, including in this term
their clear developement from Fundamental Ideas in the
discoverer’s mind, as well as their precise expression in
the form of Definitions or Axioms, when that can be
done, is an essential part in the establishment of all
exact and general physical truths. In doing this, I have
endeavoured to explain in what sense the possession of
clear and appropriate ideas is a main requisite for every
step in scientific discovery. That it is far from being
the only step, I shall soon have to show ; and if any ob­
scurity remain on the subject treated of in the present
chapter, it will, I hope, be removed when we have
examined the other elements which enter into the con­
stitution of our knowledge.
C h a p t e r III.
OF FACTS AS T H E M A TERIA LS O F SCIENCE.
1. W e have now to examine how Science is built
up by the combination of Facts. In doing this, we sup­
pose that we have already obtained a supply of definite
and certain Facts, free from obscurity and doubt. We
must, therefore, first consider under what conditions
Facts can assume this character.
When we inquire what Facts are to be made the
materials of Science, perhaps the answer which we
should most commonly receive would be, that they must
be True F
a
c
t
s
, as distinguished from any mere inferences
or opinions of our own. We should probably be told
that we must be careful in such a case to consider as
Facts, only what we really observe;—that we must
assert only what we see; and believe nothing except
upon the testimony of our senses.
But such maxims are far from being easy to apply,
as a little examination will convince us.
2. It has been explained, in the preceding part of
this work, that all perception of external objects and
occurrences involves an active as well as a passive pro­
cess of the mind;—includes not only Sensations, but also
Ideas by which Sensations are bound together, and have
a unity given to them. From this it follows, that there
is a difficulty in separating in our perceptions what we
receive from without, and what we ourselves contribute
from within;—what we perceive, and what we infer.
In many cases, this difficulty is obvious to all: as, for
example, when we witness the performances of a juggler
or a ventriloquist. In these instances, we imagine our­
selves to see and to hear what certainly we do not see
and hear. The performer takes advantage of the habits
by which our minds supply interruptions and infer con­
nexions; and by giving us fallacious indications, he leads
us to perceive as an actual fact, what does not happen
at all. In these cases, it is evident that we ourselves
assist in making the fact; for we make one which does
not really exist. In other cases, though the fact which
we perceive be true, we can easily see that a large
portion of the perception is our own act; as when, from
OF FACTS AS THE MATERIALS OF SCIENCE. 2 7
28 CONSTRUCTION OF SCIENCE.
the sight of a bird of prey we infer a carcase, or when
we read a half-obliterated inscription. In the latter
case, the mind supplies the meaning, and perhaps half
the letters; yet we do not hesitate to say that we actually
read the inscription. Thus, in many cases, our own
inferences and interpretations enter into our facts. But
this happens in many instances in which it is at first
sight less obvious. When any one has seen an oak-tree
blown down by a strong gust of wind, he does not think
of the occurrence any otherwise than as a Fact of
which he is assured by his senses. Yet by what sense
does he perceive the Force which he thus supposes the
wind to exert? By what sense does he distinguish an
Oak-tree from all other trees ? It is clear upon reflec­
tion, that in such a case, his own mind supplies the con­
ception of extraneous impulse and pressure, by which
he thus interprets the motions observed, and the distinc­
tion of different kinds of trees, according to which he
thus names the one under his notice. The Idea of
Force, and the idea of definite Resemblances and Dif­
ferences, are thus combined with the impressions on our
senses, and form an undistinguished portion of that
which we consider as the Fact. And it is evident that
we can in no other way perceive Force, than by seeing
motion; and cannot give a Name to any object, without
not only seeing a difference of single objects, but sup­
posing a difference of classes of objects. When we speak
as if we saw impulse aud attraction, things and classes,
we really see only objects of various forms and colours,
more or less numerous, variously combined. But do
we really perceive so much as this ? When we see the
form, the size, the number, the motion of objects, are
these really mere impressions on our senses, unmodified
by any contribution or operation of the mind itself? A
very little attention will suffice to convince us that this
OF FACTS AS THE MATERIALS OF SCIENCE. 29
is not the case. When we see a windmill turning, it
may happen, as we have elsewhere noticed*, that we
mistake the direction in which the sails turn: when we
look at certain diagrams, they may appear either convex
or concave: when we see the moon first in the horizon
and afterwards high up in the sky, we judge her to be
much larger in the former than in the latter position,
although to the eye she subtends the same angle. And
in these cases and the like, it has been seen that the
errour and confusion which we thus incur arise from
the mixture of acts of the mind itself with impressions
on the senses. But such acts are, as we have also seen,
inseparable portions of the process of perception. A
certain activity of the mind is involved, not only in
seeing objects erroneously, but in seeing them at all.
With regard to solid objects, this is generally acknow­
ledged. When we seem to see an edifice occupying
space in all dimensions, we really see only a represen­
tation of it as it appears referred by perspective to a
surface. The inference of the solid form is an operation
of our own, alike when we look at a reality and when
we look at a picture. But we may go further. Is
plane Figure really a mere Sensation ? If we look at a
decagon, do we see at once that it has ten sides, or is it
not necessary for us to count them: and is not counting
an act of the mind? All objects are seen in space; all
objects are seen as one or many: but are not the Idea
of Space and the Idea of Number requisite in order that
we may thus apprehend what we see ? That these Ideas
of Space and Number involve a connexion derived from
the mind, and not from the senses, appears, as we have
already seen, from this, that those Ideas afford us the
materials of universally and necessary truths:—such
truths as the senses cannot possibly supply. And thus,
* Book II. c. vi. »eot- 6.
30 CONSTRUCTION OF SCIENCE.
even the perception of such facts as the size, shape, and
number of objects, cannot be said to be impressions of
sense, distinct from all acts of mind, and cannot be ex­
pected to be free from errour on the ground of their
being mere observed Facts.
Thus the difficulty which we have been illustrating,
of distinguishing Facts from inferences and from inter­
pretations of facts, is not only great, but amounts to an
impossibility. The separation at which we aimed in the
outset of this discussion, and which was supposed to be
necessary in order to obtain a firm groundwork for
science, is found to be unattainable. We cannot obtain
a sure basis of Facts, by rejecting all inferences and
judgments of our own, for such inferences and judgments
form an unavoidable element in all Facts. We cannot
exclude our Ideas from our Perceptions, for our Per­
ceptions involve our Ideas.
3. But still, it cannot be doubted that in selecting
the Facts which are to form the foundation of Science,
we must reduce them to their most simple and certain
form; and must reject everything from which doubt or
errour may arise. Now since this, it appears, cannot
be done, by rejecting the Ideas which all Facts involve,
in what manner are we to conform to the obvious maxim,
that the Facts which form the basis of Science must
be perfectly definite and certain ?
The analysis of facts into Ideas and Sensations, which
we have so often referred to, suggests the answer to
this inquiry. We are not able, nor need we endeavour,
to exclude Ideas from our Facts; but we may be able
to discern, with perfect distinctness, the Ideas which we
include. We cannot observe any phenomena without
applying to them such Ideas as Space and Number, Cause
and Resemblance, and usually, several others; but we
may avoid applying these Ideas in a wavering or obscure
manner, and confounding Ideas with one another. We
cannot read any of the inscriptions which nature pre­
sents to us, without interpreting them by means of
some language which we ourselves are accustomed to
speak; but we may make it our business to acquaint
ourselves perfectly with the language which we thus
employ, and to interpret it according to the rigorous
rules of grammar and analogy.
This maxim, that when Facts are employed as the
basis of Science, we must distinguish clearly the Ideas
which they involve, and must apply these in a distinct
and rigorous manner, will be found to be a more precise
guide than we might perhaps at first expect. We may
notice one or two Rules which flow from it.
4. In the first place, Facts, when used as the mate­
rials of physical Science, must be referred Conceptions
of the Intellect only, all emotions of fear, admiration,
and the like, being rejected or subdued. Thus, the
observations of phenomena which are related as portents
and prodigies, striking terrour and boding evil, are of
no value for purposes of science. The tales of armies
seen warring in the sky, the sound of arms heard from
the clouds, fiery dragons, chariots, swords seen in the
air, may refer to meteorological phenomena; but the
records of phenomena observed in the state of mind
which these descriptions imply can be of no scientific
value. We cannot make the poets our observers.
Armorwn 9onitum toto Germania ccelo
Andiit ; insolitis tremuernnt motibus Alpes.
Vox quoque per lucos vulgo exaudita silentes
Ingens, et simulacra modis pallentia mins
Visa sub obscurum noctis : pecudesque locuta?.
The mixture of fancy and emotion with the observation
of facts has often disfigured them to an extent which
is too familiar to all to need illustration. We have an
OF FACTS AS THE MATERIALS OF SCIENCE. 31
32 CONSTRUCTION OF SCIENCE.
example of this result, in the manner in which Comets
are described in the treatises of the middle ages. In
such works, these bodies are regularly distributed into
several classes, accordingly as they assume the form of a
sword, of a spear, of a cross, and so on. When such
resemblances had become matters of interest, the im­
pressions of the senses were governed, not by the rigor­
ous conceptions of form and colour, but by these assumed
images; and under these circumstances, we can attach
little value to the statement of what was seen.
In all such phenomena, the reference of the objects
to the exact Ideas of Space, Number, Position, Motion,
and the like, is the first step of Science: and accord­
ingly, this reference was established at an early period
in those sciences which made an early progress, as, for
instance, astronomy. Yet even in astronomy there
appears to have been a period when the predominant
conceptions of men in regarding the heavens and the
stars pointed to mythical story and supernatural in­
fluence, rather than to mere relations of space, time,
and motion: and of this primeval condition of those
who gazed at the stars, we seem to have remnants in
the Constellations, in the mythological Names of the
Planets, and in the early prevalence of Astrology. It
was only at a later period, when men had begun to mea­
sure the places, or at least to count the revolutions of
the stars, that astronomy had its birth.
5. And thus we are led to another Rule:—that in
collecting Facts which are to be made the basis of
Science, the Facts are to be observed, as far as possible,
with reference to p
l
a
c
e
,
like Conceptions; which, depending upon the Ideas of
Space and Time, are the most universal, exact, and sim­
ple of our conceptions. It was by early attention to
these relations in the case of the heavenly bodies, that
OF FACTS AS THE MATERIALS OF SCIENCE. 33
the ancients formed the science of Astronomy: it was
by not making precise observations of this kind in the
case of terrestrial bodies, that they failed in framing a
science of the Mechanics of Motion. Thev succeeded in
%
Optics as far as they made observations of this nature;
but when they ceased to trace the geometrical paths of
rays in the actual experiment, they ceased to go for­
wards in the knowledge of this subject.
6. But we may state a further Rule:—that though
these relations of Time and Space are highly important
in almost all Facts, we are not to confine ourselves to
these: but are to consider the phenomena with reference
toother Conceptions also: it being always understood
that these conceptions are to be made as exact and
rigorous as those of geometry and number. Thus the
science of Harmonics arose from considering sounds
with reference to Concords and Discords; the science
of Mechanics arose from not only observing motions as
they take place in Time and Space, but further, refer­
ring them to Force as their Cause. And in like manner,
other sciences depend upon other Ideas, which, as 1
have endeavoured to show, are not less fundamental
than those of Time and Space; and like them, capable
of leading to rigorous consequences.
7. Thus the Facts which we assume as the basis of
Science are to be freed from all the mists which ima­
gination and passion throw round them; and to be
separated into those elementary Facts which exhibit
simple and evident relations of Time, or Space, or Cause,
or some other Ideas equally clear. We resol ^e the
complex appearances which nature offers to us, and the
mixed and manifold modes of looking at these appear­
ances which rise in our thoughts, into limited, definite,
and clearly-understood portions. This process we may
term the Decomposition of Facts. It is the beginning
VOL. II. w . p. D
3 4 CONSTRUCTION OF SCIENCE.
of exact knowledge,—the first step in the formation of
all Science. This Decomposition of Facts into Elemen­
tary Facts, clearly understood and surely ascertained,
must precede all discovery of the laws of nature.
8. But though this step is necessary, it is not infal­
libly sufficient. It by no means follows that when we
have thus decomposed Facts into Elementary Truths of
observation, we shall soon be able to combine these, so
as to obtain Truths of a higher and more speculative
kind. We have examples which show us how far this
is from being a necessary consequence of the former
step. Observations of the weather, made and recorded
for many years, have not led to any general truths, form­
ing a science of Meteorology: and although great
numerical precision has been given to such observations
by means of barometers, thermometers, and other instru­
ments, still, no general laws regulating the cycles of
change of such phenomena have yet been discovered.
In like manner the feces of crystals, and the sides of the
polygons which these crystals form, were counted, and
thus numerical facts were obtained, perfectly true and
definite, but still of no value for purposes of science.
And when it was discovered what Element of the form
of crystals it was important to observe and measure,
namely, the Angle made by two feces with each other,
this discovery was a step of a higher order, and did not
belong to that department, of mere exact observation
of manifest Facts, with which we are here concerned.
9. When the Complex Facts which nature offers
to us are thus decomposed' into Simple Facts, the
decomposition, in general, leads to the introduction of
Terms and Phrases, more or less technical, by which
these Simple Facts are described. When Astronomy
was thus made a science of measurement, the things
measured were soon described as Hours, and Days, and
Cycles, Altitude and Declination, Phases and Aspects.
In the same manner, in Music, the concords had names
assigned them, as Diapente, Diatessaron, Diapason; in
studying Optics, the Pays of light were spoken of as
having their course altered by Reflexion and Refrac­
tion', and when useful observations began to be made
in Mechanics, the observers spoke of Force, ,
Momentum, Inertia, and the like.
10. When we take phenomena in which the leading
Idea is Resemblance, and resolve them into precise com­
ponent Facts, we obtain some kind of Classification; as,
for instance, when we lay down certain Rules by which
particular trees, or particular animals are to be known.
This is the earliest form of Natural History; and the
Classification which it involves is that which corre­
sponds, nearly or exactly, with the usual Names of the
objects thus classified.
11. Thus the first attempts to render observation
certain and exact, lead to a decomposition of the obvious
facts into Elementary Facts, connected by the Ideas of
Space, Time, Number, Cause, Likeness, and others: and
into a Classification of the Simple Facts, more or less
just, and marked by Names either common or technical.
Elementary Facts, and Individual Objects, thus observed
and classified, form the materials of Science; and any
improvement in Classification or Nomenclature, or any
discovery of a Connexion among the materials thus
accumulated, leads us fairly within the precincts of
Science. We must now, therefore, consider the manner
in which Science is built up of such materials;—the
process by which they are brought into their places, and
the texture of the bond which unites and cements them.
OF FACTS AS THE MATERIALS OF SCIENCE. 35
D 2
36 CONSTRUCTION OF SCIENCE.
Chapter IV.
OF THE COLLIGATION OF FACTS.
1. Facts such as the last Chapter speaks of are, by
means of such Conceptions as are described in the pre­
ceding Chapter, bound together so as to give rise to
those general Propositions of which Science consists.
Thus the Facts that the planets revolve about the sun
in certain periodic times and at certain distances, are
included and connected in Kepler’s Law, by means of
such Conceptions as the squares qf , the cubes
of distances, and the proportionality of these quantities.
Again the existence of this proportion in the motions of
any two planets, forms a set of Facts which may all be
combined by means of the Conception of a certain cen­
tral accelerating f
o
r
c
e
, as was proved by Newton.
whole of our physical knowledge consists in the esta­
blishment of such propositions; and in all such cases,
Facts are bound together by the aid of suitable Concep­
tions. This part of the formation of our knowledge I
have called the Colligation qf Facts : and we may apply
this term to every case in which, by an act of the
intellect, we establish a precise connexion among the
phenomena which are presented to our senses. The
knowledge of such connexions, accumulated and syste­
matized, is Science. On the steps by which science is
thus collected from phenomena we shall proceed now to
make a few remarks.
2. Science begins with Common Observation of facts,
in which we are not conscious of any peculiar discipline
or habit of thought exercised in observing. Thus the
common perceptions of the appearances and recurrences
of the celestial luminaries, were the first steps of Astro-
OF THE COLLIGATION OF FACTS. 37
nomy: the obvious cases in which bodies fall or are
supported, were the beginning of Mechanics; the familiar
aspects of visible things, were the origin of Optics; the
usual distinctions of well-known plants, first gave rise to
Botany. Facts belonging to such parts of our know­
ledge are noticed by us, and accumulated in our memo­
ries, in the common course of our habits, almost without
our being aware that we are observing and collecting
facts. Yet such facts may lead to many scientific truths;
for instance, in the first stages of Astronomy (as we have
shown in the History) such facts lead to Methods of
Intercalation and Rules of the Recurrence of Eclipses.
In succeeding stages of science, more especial attention
and preparation on the part of the observer, and a
selection of certaip kinds of facts, becomes necessary;
but there is an early period in the progress of know­
ledge at which man is a physical philosopher, without
seeking to be so, or being aware that he is so.
3. But in all stages of the progress, even in that
early one of which we have just spoken, it is necessary,
in order that the facts may be fit materials of any know­
ledge, that they should be decomposed into Elementary
Facts, and that these should be observed with precision.
Thus, in the first infancy of astronomy, the recurrence
of phases of the moon, of places of the sun’s rising and
setting, of planets, of eclipses, was observed to take place
at intervals of certain definite numbers of days, and in
a certain exact order; and thus it was, that the obser­
vations became portions of astronomical science. In
other cases, although the facts were equally numerous,
and their general aspect equally familiar, they led to no
science, because their exact circumstances were not ap­
prehended. A vague and loose mode of looking at facts
very easily observable, left men for a long time under
the belief that a body, ten times as heavy as another,
38 CONSTRUCTION OF 8CIENCE.
falls ten times as fast;—that objects immersed in water
are always magnified, without regard to the form of the
surfaoe;—that the magnet exerts an irresistible force;—
that crystal is always found associated with ice;—and
the like. These and many others are examples how
blind and careless man can be, even in observation of
the plainest and commonest appearances; and they show
us that the mere faculties of perception, although con­
stantly exercised upon innumerable objects, may long
fail in leading to any exact knowledge.
4. If we further inquire what was the favourable
condition through which some special classes of facts
were, from the first, fitted to become portions of science,
we shall find it to have been principally this;—that
these facts were considered with reference to the Ideas
of Time, Number, and Space, which are Ideas possessing
peculiar definiteness and precision; so that with regard
to them, confusion and indistinctness are hardly possible.
The interval from new moon to new moon was alwavs
♦
a particular number of days: the sun in his yearly course
rose and set near to a known succession of distant
objects: the moon’s path passed among the stars in a
certain order:—these are observations in which mistake
and obscurity are not likely to occur, if the smallest
degree of attention is bestowed upon the task. To count
a number is, from the first opening of man’s mental
faculties, an operation which no science can render more
precise. The relations of space are nearest to those of
number in obvious and universal evidence. Sciences
depending upon these Ideas arise with the first dawn
of intellectual civilization. But few of the other Ideas
which man employs in the acquisition of knowledge
possess this clearness in their common use. The Idea
of Resemblance may be noticed, as coming next to those
of Space and Number in original precision; and the
OF THE COLLIGATION OF FACTS. 30
Idea of Cause, in a certain vague and general mode of
application, sufficient for the purposes of common life,
but not for the ends of science, exercises a very exten­
sive influence over men's thoughts. But the other Ideas
on which science depends, with the Conceptions which
arise out of them, are not unfolded till a much later
period of intellectual progress; and therefore, except in
such limited cases as I have noticed, the observations of
common spectators and uncultivated nations, however
numerous or varied, are of little or no effect in giving
rise to Science.
5. Let us now suppose that, besides common every­
day perception of facts, we turn our attention to some
other occurrences and appearances, with a design of
obtaining from them speculative knowledge. This pro­
cess is more peculiarly called Observation, or, when we
ourselves occasion the facts, Experiment. But the same
remark which we have already made, still holds good
here. These facts can be of no value, except they are
resolved into those exact Conceptions which contain the
essential circumstances of the case. They must be de­
termined, not indeed necessarily, as has sometimes been
said, “ according to Number, Weight, and Measure;”
for, as we have endeavoured to 6how in the preceding
Books*, there are many other Conceptions to which
phenomena may be subordinated, quite different from
these, and yet not at all less definite and precise. But
in order that the facts obtained by observation and ex­
periment may be capable of being used in furtherance of
our exact and solid knowledge, they must be apprehended
aud analyzed according to some Conceptions which, ap­
plied for this purpose, give distinct and definite results,
such as can be steadily taken hold of and reasoned from;
that is, the facts must be referred to Clear and Appro-
Books v., vi., vit., viii., ix., x.
4 0 CONSTRUCTION OF SCIENCE.
priate Ideas, according to the manner in which we have
already explained this condition of the derivation of our
knowledge. The phenomena of light, when they are
such as to indicate sides in the ray, must be referred
to the Conception of 'polarization ; the phenomena of
mixture, when there is an alteration of qualities as well
as quantities, must be combined by a Conception of ele­
mentary composition. And thus, when mere position,
and number, and resemblance, will no longer answer
the purpose of enabling us to connect the facts, we call
in other Ideas, in such cases more efficacious, though
less obvious.
6. But how are we, in these cases, to discover such
Ideas, and to judge which will be efficacious, in leading
to a scientific combination of our experimental data?
To this question, we must in the first place answer, that
the first and great instrument by which facts, so observed
with a view to the formation of exact knowledge, are
combined into important and permanent truths, is that
peculiar Sagacity which belongs to the genius of a Dis­
coverer ; and which, while it supplies those distinct and
appropriate Conceptions which lead to its success, can­
not be limited by rules, or expressed in definitions. It
would be difficult or impossible to describe in words the
habits of thought which led Archimedes to refer the
conditions of equilibrium on the lever to the Conception
of pressure, while Aristotle could not see in them any­
thing more than the results of the strangeness of the
properties of the circle;—or which impelled Pascal to
explain by means of the Conception of the weight of ,
the facts which his predecessors had connected by the
notion of nature’s horrour of a vacuum;— or which
caused Vitello and Roger Bacon to refer the magnifying
power of a convex lens to the bending of the rays of
light towards the perpendicular by refraction, while
OF THE COLLIGATION OF FACTS. 41
others conceived the effect to result from the matter of
medium, with no consideration of its form. These are
what are commonly spoken of as felicitous and inexpli­
cable strokes of inventive talent ; and such, no doubt,
they are. No rules can ensure to us similar success in
new cases; or can enable men who do not possess similar
endowments, to make like advances in knowledge.
7. Yet still, we may do something in tracing the
process by which such discoveries are made ; and this it
is here our business to do. We may observe that these,
and the like discoveries, are not improperly described
as happy Guesses-, and that Guesses, in these as in other
instances, imply various suppositions made, of which
some one turns out to be the right one. We may, in
such cases, conceive the discoverer as inventing and try­
ing many conjectures, till he finds one which answers
the purpose of combining the scattered facts into a single
rule. The discovery of general truths from special facts
is performed, commonly at least, and more commonly
than at first appears, by the use of a series of Supposi­
tions, or Hypotheses, which are looked at in quick succes­
sion, and of which the one which really leads to truth
is rapidly detected, and when caught sight of, firmly
held, verified, and followed to its consequences. In the
minds of most discoverers, this process of invention,
trial, and acceptance or rejection of the hypothesis, goes
on so rapidly that we cannot trace it in its successive
steps. But in some instances, we can do so; and we
can also see that the other examples of discovery do not
differ essentially from these. The same intellectual
operations take place in other cases, although this often
happens so instantaneously that we lose the trace of the
progression. In the discoveries made by Kepler, we
have a curious and memorable exhibition of this process
in its details. Thanks to his communicative disposi-
Digitized by Google
4 2 CONSTRUCTION OF SCIENCE.
tion, we know that he made nineteen hypotheses with
regard to the motion of Mars, and calculated the results
of each, before he established the true doctrine, that
the planet’s path is an ellipse. We know, in like man­
ner, that Galileo made wrong suppositions respecting
the laws of falling bodies, and Mariotte, concerning the
motion of water in a siphon, before they hit upon the
correct view of these cases.
8. But it has very often happened in the history of
science, that the erroneous hypotheses which preceded
the discovery of the truth have been made, not by the
discoverer himself but by his precursors; to whom he
thus owed the service, often an important one in such
cases, of exhausting the most tempting forms of errour.
Thus the various fruitless suppositions by which Kepler
endeavoured to discover the law of refraction, led the
way to its real detection by Snell; Kepler’s numerous
imaginations concerning the forces by which the celestial
motions are produced,—his “ physical reasonings” as he
termed them,—were a natural prelude to the truer phy­
sical reasonings of Newton. The various hypotheses by
which the suspension of vapour in air had been explained,
and their failure, left the field open for Dalton with his
doctrine of the mechanical mixture of gases. In most
cases, if we could truly analyze the operation of the
thoughts of those who make, or who endeavour to make
discoveries in science, we should find that many more
suppositions pass through their minds than those which
are expressed in words; many a possible combination of
conceptions is formed and soon rejected. There is a con­
stant invention and activity, a perpetual creating and
selecting power at work, of which the last results only
are exhibited to us. Trains of hypotheses are called up
and pass rapidly in review; and the judgment makes its
choice from the varied group.
OF THE COLLIGATION OF FACTS. 43
9. It would, however, be a great mistake to suppose
that the hypotheses, among which our choice thus lies,
are constructed by an enumeration of obvious cases, or
by a wanton alteration of relations which occur in some
first hypothesis. It may, indeed, sometimes happen that
the proposition which is finally established is such as may
be formed, by some slight alteration, from those which
are justly rejected. Thus Kepler’s elliptical theory of
Mars’s motions, involved relations of lines and angles
much of the same nature as his previous false suppo­
sitions: and the true law of refraction so much resembles
those erroneous ones which Kepler tried, that we cannot
help wondering how he chanced to miss it. But it more
frequently happens that new truths are brought into
view by the application of new Ideas, not by new modi­
fications of old ones. The cause of the properties of the
Lever was learnt, not by introducing any new geometri­
cal combination of lines and circles, but by referring the
properties to genuine mechanical Conceptions. When
the Motions of the Planets were to be explained, this
was done, not by merely improving the previous notions,
of cycles of time, but by introducing the new conception
of epicycles in space; The doctrine of the Four Simple
Elements was expelled, not by forming any new scheme
of elements which should impart, according to new rules,
their sensible qualities to their compounds, but by con­
sidering the elements of bodies as neutralizing each
other. The Fringes of Shadows could not be explained
by ascribing new properties to the single rays of light,
but were reduced to law by referring them to the inter­
ference of several rays.
Since the true supposition is thus very frequently
something altogether diverse from all the obvious con­
jectures and combinations, we see here how far we are
from being able to reduce discovery to rule, or to give
44 CONSTRUCTION OF SCIENCE.
any precepts by which the want of real invention and
sagacity shall be supplied. We may warn and encourage
these faculties when they exist, but we cannot create
them, or make great discoveries when they are absent.
10. The Conceptions which a true theory requires are
very often clothed in a Hypothesis which connects with
them several superfluous and irrelevant circumstances.
Thus the Conception of the Polarization of Light was
originally represented under the image of particles of
light having their poles all turned in the same direction.
The Laws of Ileat may be made out perhaps most con­
veniently by conceiving Heat to be a Fluid. The At­
traction of Gravitation might have been successfully
applied to the explanation of facts, if Newton had
throughout treated Attraction as the result of an Ether
diffused through space; a supposition which he has
noticed as a possibility. The doctrine of Definite and
Multiple Proportions may be conveniently expressed by
the hypothesis of Atoms. In such cases, the Hypothesis
may serve at first to facilitate the introduction of a new
Conception. Thus a pervading Ether might for a time
remove a difficulty, which some persons find consider­
able, of imagining a body to exert force at a distance. A
Particle with Poles is more easily conceived than Polar­
ization in the abstract. And if hypotheses thus employed
will really explain the facts by means of a few simple
assumptions, the laws so obtained may afterwards be
reduced to a simpler form than that in which they were
first suggested. The general laws of Heat, of Attrac­
tion, of Polarization, of Multiple Proportions, are now
certain, whatever image we may form to ourselves of
their ultimate causes.
11. In order, then, to discover scientific truths,
suppositions consisting either of new Conceptions, or of
new Combinations of old ones, are to be made, till we
OF THE COLLIGATION OF FACTS. 4 5
find one which succeeds in binding together the Facts.
But how are we to find this? How is the trial to be
made ? What is meant by “success ” in these cases ? To
this we reply, that our inquiry must be, whether the
Facts have the same relation in the Hypothesis which
they have in reality;—whether the results of our sup­
positions agree with the phenomena which nature pre­
sents to us. For this purpose, we must both carefully
observe the phenomena, and steadily trace the conse­
quences of our assumptions, till we can bring the two
into comparison. The Conceptions which our hypotheses
involve, being derived from certain Fundamental Ideas,
afford a basis of rigorous reasoning, as we have shown in
the Books respecting those Ideas. And the results to
which this reasoning leads, will be susceptible of being
verified or contradicted by observation of the facts.
Thus the Epicyclical Theory of the Moon, once assumed,
determined what the moon’s place among the stars ought
to be at any given time, and could therefore be tested by
actually observing the moon’s places. The doctrine that
musical strings of the same length, stretched with weights
of 1, 4, 9, 16, would give the musical intervals of an
octave, a fifth, a fourth, in succession, could be put to the
trial by any one whose ear was capable of appreciating
those intervals: and the inference which follows from
this doctrine by numerical reasoning,—that there must
be certain imperfections in the concords of every musical
scale,—could in like manner be confirmed by trying va­
rious modes of Temperament. In like manner all received
theories in science, up to the present time, have been
established by taking up some supposition, and comparing
it, directly or by means of its remoter consequences,
with the facts it was intended to embrace. Its agree­
ment, under certain cautions and cohditions, of which
we may hereafter speak, is held to be the evidence of
46 CONSTRUCTION OF SCIENCE.
its truth. It answers its genuine purpose, the Colligation
of Facts.
12. When we have, in any subject, succeeded in one
attempt of this kind, and obtained some true Bond of
Unity by which the phenomena are held together, the
subject is open to further prosecution; which ulterior
process may, for the most part, be conducted in a more
formal and technical manner. The first great outline
of the subject is drawn; and the finishing of the resem­
blance of nature demands a more minute pencilling,
but perhaps requires less of genius in the master. In
the pursuance of this task, rules and precepts may be
given, and features and leading circumstances pointed
out, of which it may often be useful to the inquirer to
be aware.
Before proceeding further, I shall speak of some cha­
racteristic marks which belong to such scientific processes
as are now the subject of our consideration, and which
may sometimes aid us in determining when the task has
been rightly executed.
C h a p t e r V.
O F CERTAIN CHARACTERISTICS OF S C IE N T IFIC
INDUCTION.
Sect. I.—Invention a part qf Induction.
1. The two operations spoken of in the preceding
chapters,—the Explication of the Conceptions of our own
minds, and the Colligation of observed Facts by the aid
of such Conceptions,—are, as we have just said, insepa­
rably connected with each other. When united, and
employed in collecting knowledge from the phenomena
which the world presents to us, they constitute the mental
process of Induction; which is usually and justly spoken
of as the genuine source of all our real general knowledge
respecting the external world. And we see, from the
preceding analysis of this process into its two constitu­
ents, from what origin it derives each of its characters.
It is real, because it arises from the combination of Real
Facts, but it is general, because it implies the possession
of General Ideas. Without the former, it would not be
knowledge of the External World; without the latter, it
would not be Knowledge at all. When Ideas and Facts
are separated from each other, the neglect of Facts gives
rise to empty speculations, idle subtleties, visionary inven­
tions, false opinions concerning the laws of phenomena,
disregard of the true aspect of nature: while the want of
Ideas leaves the mind overwhelmed, bewildered, and stu-
pified by particular sensations, with no means of connect­
ing the past with the future, the absent with the present,
the example with the rule; open to the impression of all
appearances, but capable of appropriating none. Ideas
are the Form, facts the Material, of our structure.
Knowledge does not consist in the empty mould, or in
the brute mass of matter, but in the rightly-moulded
substance. Induction gathers general truths from par­
ticular facts;—and in her harvest, the corn and the
reaper, the solid ears and the binding band, are alike
requisite. All our knowledge of nature is obtained by
Induction; the term being understood according to the
explanation we have now given. And our knowledge is
then most complete, then most truly deserves the name
of Science, when both its elements are most perfect;—
when the Ideas which have been concerned in its forma­
tion have, at every step, been clear and consistent;—and
when they have, at every step also, been employed in
binding together real and certain Facts. Of such Induc­
tion, I have already given so many examples and illus-
CHARACTERISTICS OF SCIENTIFIC INDUCTION. 47
48 CONSTRUCTION OF SCIENCE.
trations in the two preceding chapters, that I need not
now dwell further upon the subject.
2. Induction is familiarly spoken of as the process by
which we collect a General Proposition from a number of
Particular C a s e s :and it appears to be freq
gined that the general proposition results from a mere
juxta-position of the cases, or at most, from merely con­
joining and extending them. But if we consider the pro­
cess more closely, as exhibited in the cases lately spoken
of, we shall perceive that this is an inadequate account of
the matter. The particular facts are not merely brought
together, but there is a New Element added to the combi­
nation by the very act of thought by which they are com­
bined. There is a Conception of the mind introduced in
the general proposition, which did not exist in any of the
observed facts. When the Greeks, after long observing
the motions of the planets, saw that these motions might
be rightly considered as produced by the motion of one
wheel revolving in the inside of another wheel, these
Wheels were Creations of their minds, added to the Facts
which they perceived by sense. And even if the wheels
were no longer supposed to be material, but were reduced
to mere geometrical spheres or circles, they were not
the less products of the mind alone,—something addi­
tional to the facts observed. The same is the case in all
other discoveries. The facts are known, but they are
insulated and unconnected, till the discoverer supplies
from his own stores a Principle of Connexion. The pearls
are there, but they will not hang together till some one
provides the String. The distances and periods of the
planets were all so many separate facts; by Kepler’s
Third Law they are connected into a single truth: but
the Conceptions which this law involves were supplied by
Kepler’s mind, and without these, the facts were of no
avail. The planets described ellipses round the sun, in
the contemplation of others as well as of Newton; but
Newton conceived the deflection from the tangent in
these elliptical motions in a new light,—as the effect of
a Central Force following a certain law; and then it was,
that such a force was discovered truly to exist.
Thus* in each inference made by Induction, there
is introduced some General Conception, which is given,
not by the phenomena, but by the mind. The conclu­
sion is not contained in the premises, but includes them
by the introduction of a New Generality. In order to
obtain our inference, we travel beyond the cases which
we have before us; we consider them as mere exemplifi­
cations of some Ideal Case in which the relations are com­
plete and intelligible. We take a Standard, and measure
the facts by it ; and this Standard is constructed by us,
not offered by Nature. We assert, for example, that a
body left to itself will move on with unaltered velocity;
not because our senses ever disclosed to us a body doing
this, but because (taking this as our Ideal Case) we find
that all actual cases are intelligible and explicable by
means of the Conception of , causing change and
motion, and exerted by surrounding bodies. In like
manner, we see bodies striking each other, and thus
moving and stopping, accelerating and retarding each
other: but in all this, we do not perceive by our senses
that abstract quantity, M
o
m
e
n
t
u
m,
which is always lost
by one body as it is gained by another. This Momentum
is a creation of the mind, brought in among the facts, in
order to convert their apparent confusion into order, their
seeming chance into certainty, their perplexing variety
into simplicity. This the Conception of Momentum
gained and lost does: and in like manner, in any other
case in which a truth is established by Induction, some
* I repeat here remarks made at the end of the Mechanical Euclid,
p. 178.
VOL.U. W. P. E
CHARACTERISTICS OP SCIENTIFIC INDUCTION. 49
50 CONSTRUCTION OF SCIENCE.
Conception is introduced, some Idea is applied, as the
means of binding together the facts, and thus producing
the truth.
3. Hence in every inference by Induction, there is
some Conception superinduced upon the Facts: and we
may henceforth conceive this to be the peculiar import
of the term Induction. I am not to be understood as
asserting that the term was originally or anciently
employed with this notion of its meaning; for the pecu­
liar feature just pointed out in Induction has generally
been over-looked. This appears by the accounts gene­
rally given of Induction. “Induction,”says Aristotle*, “is
when by means of one extreme termf we infer the other
extreme term to be true of the middle term.” Thus, (to
take such exemplifications as belong to our subject,)
from knowing that Mercury, Venus, Mars, describe
ellipses about the Sun, we infer that all Planets describe
ellipses about the Sun. In making this inference syllo-
gistically, we assume that the evident proposition, “ Mer­
cury, Venus, Mars, do what all Planets do,” may be
taken conversely, “ All Planets do what Mercury, Venus,
Mars, do.” But we may remark that, in this passage,
Aristotle (as was natural in his line of discussion) turns
his attention entirely to the evidence of the inference;
and overlooks a step which is of far more importance to
our knowledge, namely, the invention of the second
extreme term. In the above instance, the particular
luminaries, Mercury, Venus, Mars, are one logical Ex­
treme; the general designation Planets is the Middle
Term; but having these before us, how do we come to
* Analyt. Prior., Lib. II. c. 23. ile^i Tr/? enaytoyriK.
+ The syllogism here alluded to would bo this:—
Mercury, Venus, Mars, describe ellipses about the Sun ;
All Planets do w’hat Mercury, Venus, Mars, do;
Therefore all Planets describe ellipses about the Sun.
CHARACTERISTICS OF SCIENTIFIC INDUCTION. 51
think of description o f ellipses, which is the other
Extreme of the syllogism? When we have once in­
vented this “ second Extreme Term,” we may, or may
not, be satisfied with the evidence of the syllogism; we
may, or may not, be convinced that, so far as this pro­
perty goes, the extremes are co-extensive with the mid­
dle term*; but the statement of the syllogism is the
important step in science. We know how long Kepler
laboured, how hard he fought, how many devices he
tried, before he hit upon this Term, the Elliptical
Motion. He rejected, as we know, many other “second
Extreme Terms,” for example, various combinations of
epicyclical constructions, because they did not represent
with sufficient accuracy the special facts of observation.
When he had established his premiss, that “ Mars does
describe an Ellipse about the Sun,” he does not hesitate
to guess at least that, in this respect, he might convert
the other premiss, and assert that “ All the Planets do
what Mars does.” But the main business was, the
inventing and verifying the proposition respecting the
Ellipse. The Invention of the Conception was the great
step in the discovery; the Verification of the Proposi­
tion was the great step in the j of the discovery.
If Logic consists in pointing out the conditions of proof,
the Logic of Induction must consist in showing what are
the conditions of proof, in such inferences as this: but
this subject must be pursued in the next chapter; I now
speak principally of the act of Invention, which is requi­
site in every inductive inference.
4. Although in every inductive inference, an act of
invention is requisite, the act soon slips out of notice.
Although we bind together facts by superinducing upon
them a new Conception, this Conception, once introduced
* El OVV a V T l< T T p € < p € t TO V Ttf) B KHt f t t j V W (p T € lV € l TO
A ristot. Ibid.
E 2
52 CONSTRUCTION OF SCIENCE.
and applied, is looked upon as inseparably connected
with the facts, and necessarily implied in them. Having
once had the phenomena bound together in their minds
in virtue of the Conception, men can no longer easily
restore them back to the detached and incoherent con­
dition in which they were before they were thus com­
bined. The pearls once strung, they seem to form a
chain by their nature. Induction has given them a
unity which it is so far from costing us an effort to pre­
serve, that it requires an effort to imagine it dissolved.
For instance, we usually represent to ourselves the Earth
as r
o
u
n
d
, the Earth and the Planets as revolving about
the Sun, and as drawn to the Sun by a Central Force;
we can hardly understand how it could cost the Greeks,
and Copernicus, and Newton, so much pains and trouble
to arrive at a view which is to us so familiar. These
are no longer to us Conceptions caught hold of and kept
hold of by a severe struggle; they are the simplest
modes of conceiving the facts: they are really Facts.
We are willing to own our obligation to those dis­
coverers, but we hardly fe d it: for in what other man­
ner (we ask in our thoughts,) could we represent the
facts to ourselves ?
Thus we see why it is that this step of which we
now speak, the Invention of a new Conception in every
inductive inference, is so generally overlooked that it has
hardly been noticed by preceding philosophers. When
once performed by the discoverer, it takes a fixed and
permanent place in the understanding of every one. It
is a thought which, once breathed forth, permeates all
men’s minds. All fancy they nearly or quite knew it
before. It oft was thought, or almost thought, though
never till now expressed. Men accept it and retain it,
and know it cannot be taken from them, and look upon
it as their own. They will not and cannot part with it,
CHARACTERISTICS OF SCIENTIFIC INDUCTION. 5 3
even though they may deem it trivial and obvious. It
is a secret, which once uttered, cannot be recalled, even
though it be despised by those to whom it is imparted.
As soon as the leading term of a new theory has been
pronounced and understood, all the phenomena change
their aspect. There is a standard to which we cannot
help referring them. We cannot fall back into the help­
less and bewildered state in which we gazed at them
when we possessed no principle which gave them unity.
Eclipses arrive in mysterious confusion: the notion of a
Cycle dispels the mystery. The Planets perform a tan­
gled and mazy dance; but Epicycles reduce the maze
to order. The Epicycles themselves run into confusion ;
the conception of an Ellipse makes all clear and simple.
And thus from stage to stage, new elements of intelli­
gible order are introduced. But this intelligible order is
so completely adopted by the human understanding, as
to seem part of its texture. Men ask Whether Eclipses
follow a Cycle; Whether the Planets describe Ellipses;
and they imagine that so long as they do not answer
such questions rashly, they take nothing for granted.
They do not recollect how much they assume in asking
the question:—how far the conceptions of Cycles and
of Ellipses are beyond the visible surface of the celes­
tial phenomena:—how many ages elapsed, how much
thought, how much observation, were needed, before
men’s thoughts were fashioned into the words which
they now so familiarly use. And thus they treat the
subject, as we have seen Aristotle treating it; as if it
were a question, not of invention, but of proof; not of
substance, but of form: as if the main thing were not
what we assert, but how we assert it. But for our pur­
pose, it is requisite to bear in mind the feature which
we have thus attempted to mark; and to recollect that,
in every inference by induction, there is a Conception
supplied by the mind and superinduced upon the Facts.
64 CONSTRUCTION OF SCIENCE.
5. In collecting scientific truths by Induction, we
often find (as has already been observed), a Definition
and a Proposition established at the same time,— intro­
duced together, and mutually dependent on each other.
The combination of the two constitutes the Inductive
act ; and we may consider the Definition as representing
the superinduced Conception, and the Proposition as
exhibiting the Colligation of Facts.
Sect. II.— Use qf Hypotheses.
6. To discover a Conception of the mind which will
justly represent a train of observed facts is, in some mea­
sure, a process of conjecture, as I have stated already ;
and as I then observed, the business of conjecture is
commonly conducted by calling up before our minds
several suppositions, and selecting that one which most
agrees with what we know of the observed facts. Hence
he who has to discover the laws of nature may have to
invent many suppositions before he hits upon the right
one ; and among the endowments which lead to his suc­
cess, we must reckon that fertility of invention which
ministers to him such imaginary schemes, till at last
he finds the one which conforms to the true order of
nature. A facility in devising hypotheses, therefore, is
so far from being a fault in the intellectual character
of a discoverer, that it is, in truth, a faculty indispen­
sable to his task. It is, for his purposes, much better
that he should be too ready in contriving, too eager in
pursuing systems which promise to introduce law and
order among a mass of unarranged facts, than that he
should be barren of such inventions and hopeless of such
success. Accordingly, as we have already noticed, great
discoverers have often invented hypotheses which would
not answer to all the facts, as well as those which
would ; and have fancied themselves to have discovered
CHARACTERISTICS OF SCIENTIFIC INDUCTION. 55
laws, which a more careful examination of the facts
overturned.
The tendencies of our speculative nature*, carrying
us onwards in pursuit of symmetry and rule, and thus
producing all true theories, perpetually show their vigour-
by overshooting the mark. They obtain something, by
aiming at much more. They detect the order and con­
nexion which exist, by conceiving imaginary relations of
order and connexion which have no existence. Real dis­
coveries are thus mixed with baseless assumptions ; pro­
found sagacity is combined with fanciful conjecture ; not
rarely, or in peculiar instances, but commonly, and in
most cases ; probably in all, if we could read the thoughts
of discoverers as we read the books of Kepler. To try
wrong guesses is, with most persons, the only way to hit
upon right ones. The character of the true philosopher
is, not that he never conjectures hazardously, but that his
conjectures are clearly conceived, and brought into rigid
contact with facts. He sees and compares distinctly
the Ideas and the Things ;—the relations of his notions
to each other and to phenomena. Under these con­
ditions, it is not only excusable, but necessary for him,
to snatch at every semblance of general rule,—to try all
promising forms of simplicity and symmetry.
Hence advances in knowledgef are not commonly
made without the previous exercise of some boldness and
license in guessing. The discovery of new truths re­
quires, undoubtedly, minds careful and scrupulous in
• I here take the liberty of characterizing inventive minds in gene­
ral in the same phraseology which, in the History of Science, I have
employed in reference to* particular examples. These expressions are
what I have used in speaking of the discoveries of Copernicus.— Hist.
Ind. S c i B. v. c. ii.
t These observations are made on occasion of Kepler's speculations,
and are illustrated by reference to his discoveries.—Hist. Ind. Sci.,
B. v. c. iv. sect. 1.
5 6 CONSTRUCTION OF SCIENCE.
examining what is suggested; but it requires, no less,
such as are quick and fertile in suggesting. What is
Invention, except the talent of rapidly calling before us
the many possibilities, and selecting the appropriate one?
It is true, that when we have rejected all the inadmis­
sible suppositions, they are often quickly forgotten;
and few think it necessary to dwell on these discarded
hypotheses, and on the process by which they were
condemned. But all who discover truths, must have
reasoned upon many errours to obtain each truth;
every accepted doctrine must have been one chosen out
of many candidates. If many of the guesses of philoso­
phers of bygone times now appear fanciful and absurd,
because time and observation have refuted them, others,
which were at the time equally gratuitous, have been
confirmed in a manner which makes them appear mar­
vellously sagacious. To form hypotheses, and then to
employ much labour and skill in refuting, if they do not
succeed in establishing them, is a part of the usual pro­
cess of inventive minds. Such a proceeding belongs to
the ruleof the genius of discovery, rather than (as has
often been taught in modern times) to the exception.
7. But if it be an advantage for the discoverer of
truth that he be ingenious and fertile in inventing hypo­
theses which may connect the phenomena of nature, it is
indispensably requisite that he be diligent and careful in
comparing his hypotheses with the facts, and ready to
abandon his invention as soon as it appears that it does
not agree with the course of actual occurrences. This
constant comparison of his own conceptions and suppo­
sition with observed facts under all aspects, forms the
leading employment of the discoverer: this candid and
simple love of truth, which makes him willing to sup­
press the most favourite production of his own ingenuity
as soon as it appears to be at variance with realities,
CHARACTERISTICS OF SCIENTIFIC INDUCTION. 57
constitutes the first characteristic of his temper. He
must have neither the blindness which cannot, nor the
obstinacy which will not, perceive the discrepancy of his
fancies and his facts. He must allow no indolence, or
partial views, or self-complacency, or delight in seeming
demonstration, to make him tenacious of the schemes
which he devises, any further than they are confirmed by
their accordance with nature. The framing of hypothe­
ses is, for the inquirer after truth, not the end, but the
beginning of his work. Each of his systems is invented,
not that he may admire it and follow it into all its con­
sistent consequences, but that he may make it the occa­
sion of a course of active experiment and observation.
And if the results of this process contradict his funda­
mental assumptions, however ingenious, however symme­
trical, however elegant his system may be, he rejects it
without hesitation. He allows no natural yearning for
the offspring of his own mind to draw him aside from
the higher duty of loyalty to his sovereign, Truth : to
her he not only gives his affections and his wishes, but
strenuous labour and scrupulous minuteness of attention.
We may refer to what we have said of Kepler, New­
ton, and other eminent philosophers, for illustrations of
this character. In Kepler we have remarked* the
courage and perseverance with which he undertook and
executed the task of computing his own hypotheses:
and, as a still more admirable characteristic, that he
never allowed the labour he had spent upon any con­
jecture to produce any reluctance in abandoning the
hypothesis, as soon as he had evidence of its inaccuracy.
And in the history of Newton’s discovery that the moon
is retained in her orbit by the force of gravity, we have
noticed the same moderation in maintaining the hypo­
thesis, after it had once occurred to the author’s mind.
* Hist. Ind. Set., B. v. c. iv. sect. 1.
5 8 CONSTRUCTION OF SCIENCE.
The hypothesis required that the moon should fall from
the tangent of her orbit every second through a space of
sixteen feet; but according to his first calculations it
appeared that in «fact she only fell through a space of
thirteen feet in that time. The difference seems small,
the approximation encouraging, the theory plausible ; a
man in love with his own fancies would readily have
discovered or invented some probable cause of the dif­
ference. But Newton acquiesced in it as a disproof of
his conjecture, and “ laid aside at that time any further
thoughts of this matter*.”
8. It has often happened that those who have under­
taken to instruct mankind have not possessed this pure
love of truth and comparative indifference to the main­
tenance of their own inventions. Men have frequently
adhered with great tenacity and vehemence to the hypo­
theses which they have once framed ; and in their affec­
tion for these, have been prone to overlook, to distort,
and to misinterpret facts. In this manner, Hypotheses
have so often been prejudicial to the genuine pursuit of
truth, that they have fallen into a kind of obloquy ; and
have been considered as dangerous temptations and fal­
lacious guides. Many warnings have been uttered against
the fabrication of hypotheses by those who profess to
teach philosophy ; many disclaimers of such a course by
those who cultivate science.
Thus we shall find Bacon frequently discommending
this habit, under the name of “anticipation of the mind,”
and Newton thinks it necessary to say emphatically
“ hypotheses non fingo.” It has been constantly urged
that the inductions by which sciences are formed must
be cautious and rigorous ; and the various imaginations
which passed through Kepler’s brain, and to which he
has given utterance, have been blamed or pitied as la-
• Hist. Ind. S c i B. vli. c. ii. sect. 3.
mentable instances of an unphflosophical frame of mind.
Yet it has appeared in the preceding remarks that hypo­
theses rightly used are among the helps, far more than
the dangers, of science;—that scientific induction is not
a “ cautious” or a “rigorous” process in the 6ense of
abstaining from such suppositions, but in not adhering
to them till they are confirmed by fact, and in carefully
seeking from facts confirmation or refutation. Kepler’s
character was, not that he was peculiarly given to the
construction of hypotheses, but that he narrated with
extraordinary copiousness and candour the course of his
thoughts, his labours, and his feelings. In the minds of
most persons, as we have said, the inadmissible supposi­
tions, when rejected, are soon forgotten: and thus the
trace of them vanishes from the thoughts, and the suc­
cessful hypothesis alone holds its place in our memory.
But in reality, many other transient suppositions must
have been made by all discoverers hypotheses which
are not afterwards asserted as true systems, but enter­
tained for an instant;— “ tentative hypotheses,” as they
have been called. Each of these hypotheses is followed
by its corresponding train of observations, from which it
derives its power of leading to truth. The hypothesis is
like the captain, and the observations like the soldiers of
an army: while he appears to command them, and in this
way to work his own will, he does in fact derive all his
power of conquest from their obedience, and becomes
helpless and useless if they mutiny.
Since the discoverer has thus constantly to work
his way onwards by means of hypotheses, false and true,
it is highly important for him to possess talents and
means for rapidly testing each supposition as it offers
itself. In this as in other parts of the work of discovery,
success has in general been mainly owing to the native
ingenuity and sagacity of the discoverer’s mind. Yet
CHARACTERISTICS OF SCIENTIFIC INDUCTION. 59
6 0 CONSTRUCTION OF SCIENCE.
some Rules tending to further this object have been
delivered by eminent philosophers, and some others may
perhaps be suggested. Of these we shall here notice
only some of the most general, leaving for a future chap­
ter the consideration of some more limited and detailed
processes by which, in certain cases, the discovery of the
laws of nature may be materially assisted.
Sect. III.— Tests Hypotheses.
9. A Maxim which it may be useful to recollect
is this;—that hypotheses may often be of service to
science, when they involve a certain portion of incom­
pleteness, and even qf errour. The object of such inven­
tions is to bind together facts which without them are
loose and detached; and if they do this, they may lead
the way to a perception of the true rule by which the
phenomena are associated together, even if they them­
selves somewhat misstate the matter. The imagined
arrangement enables us to contemplate, as a whole, a col­
lection of special cases which perplex and overload our
minds when they are considered in succession; and if
our scheme has so much of truth in it as to conjoin what
is really connected, we may afterwards duly correct or
limit the mechanism of this connexion. If our hypo­
thesis renders a reason for the agreement of cases really
similar, we may afterwards find this reason to be false, but
we shall be able to translate it into the language of truth.
A conspicuous example of such an hypothesis, one
which was of the highest value to science, though very
incomplete, and as a representation of nature altogether
false, is seen in the Doctrine of epicycles by which the
ancient astronomers explained the motions of the sun,
moon, and planets. This doctrine connected the places
and velocities of these bodies at particular times in a
manner which was, in its general features, agreeable to
nature. Yet this doctrine was erroneous in its assertion
of the circular nature of all the celestial motions, and in
making the heavenly bodies revolve round the earth. It
was, however, of immense value to the progress of astro­
nomical science; for it enabled men to express and
reason upon many important truths which they disco­
vered respecting the motion of the stars, up to the time
of Kepler. Indeed we can hardly imagine that astronomy
could, in its outset, have made so great a progress under
any other form, as it did in consequence of being cul­
tivated in this shape of the incomplete and false epicy-
clical hypothesis.
We may notice another instance of an exploded hypo­
thesis, which is generally mentioned only to be ridiculed,
and which undoubtedly is both false in the extent of its
assertion, and unphilosophical in its expression; but
which still, in its day, was not without merit. I mean the
doctrine of Nature's horrour qf a vacuum (fuga vacui),
by which the action of siphons and pumps and many
other phenomena were explained, till Mersenne and Pas­
cal taught a truer doctrine. This hypothesis was of real
service; for it brought together many facts which really
belong to the same class, although they are very different
in their first aspect. A scientific writer of modern times*
appears to wonder that men did not at once divine the
weight of the air from which the phenomena formerly
ascribed to thefuga vacui really result. “ Loaded, com­
pressed by the atmosphere,” he says, “they did not recog­
nize its action. In vain all nature testified that air was
elastic and heavy; they shut their eyes to her testimony.
The water rose in pumps and flowed in siphons at that
time, as it does at this day. They could not separate the
boards of a pair of bellows of which the holes were
• Deluc, Modifications de f Atmosphere, Partie !.
CHARACTERISTICS OF SCIENTIFIC INDUCTION. 61
6 2 CONSTRUCTION OF 8CIENCE.
stopped; and they could not bring together the same
boards without difficulty, if they were at first separated.
Infants sucked the milk of their mothers; air entered
rapidly into the lungs of animals at every inspiration;
cupping-glasses produced tumours on the skin; and in
spite of all the striking proofs of the weight and elas­
ticity of the air, the ancient philosophers maintained
resolutely that air was light, and explained all these
phenomena by the horrour which they said nature had for
a vacuum.” It is curious that it should not have occurred
to the author while writing this, that if these facts, so
numerous and various, can all be accounted for by
principle, there is a strong presumption that the principle
is not altogether baseless. And in reality is it not true
that nature does abhor a vacuum, and do all she can to
avoid it? No doubt this power is not unlimited; and
we can trace it to a mechanical cause, the pressure of the
circumambient air. But the tendency, arising from this
pressure, which the bodies surrounding a space void of
air have to rush into it, may be expressed, in no extra­
vagant or unintelligible manner, by saying that nature
has a repugnance to a vacuum.
That imperfect and false hypotheses, though they
may thus explain some phenomena, and may be useful in
the progress of science, cannot explain all phenomena;
—and that we are never to rest in our labours or acqui­
esce in our results, till we have found some view of the
subject which is consistent with all the observed facts:—
will of course be understood. We shall afterwards have
to speak of the other steps of such a progress.
10. The hypotheses which we accept ought to explain
phenomena which we have observed. But they ought to
do more than this: our hypotheses ought to foretel phe­
nomena which have not yet been observed;—at least all
of the same kind as those which the hypothesis was
invented to explain. For our assent to the hypothesis
implies that it is held to be true of all particular in­
stances. That these cases belong to past or to future
times, that they have or have not already occurred,
makes no difference in the applicability of the rule to
them. Because the rule prevails, it includes all cases;
and will determine them all, if we can only calculate
its real consequences. Hence it will predict the results
of new combinations, as well as explain the appear­
ances which have occurred in old ones. And that it
does this with certainty and correctness, is one mode
in which the hypothesis is to be verified as right and
useful.
The scientific doctrines which have at various periods
been established have been verified in this manner. For
example, the EpicydicalTheory of the heavens was co
firmed by its predicting truly eclipses of the sun and
moon, configurations of the planets, and other celestial
phenomena; and by its leading to the construction of
Tables by which the places of the heavenly bodies were
given at every moment of time. The truth and accuracy
of these predictions were a proof that the hypothesis was
valuable and, at least to a great extent, true; although,
as was afterwards found, it involved a false representation
of the structure of the heavens. In like manner, the
discovery of the Lam* qfRefraction enable
ticians to predict, by calculation, what would be the
effect of any new form or combination of transparent
lenses. Newton's hypothesis of Fits qf Easy Transmis­
sion and Easy Reflection in the particles of light, al­
though not confirmed by other kinds of facts, involved a
true statement of the law of the phenomena which it was
framed to include, and served to predict the forms and
colours of thin plates for a wide range of given cases.
The hypothesis that Light operates by Undulations and
CHARACTERISTICS OF SCIENTIFIC INDUCTION. 63
64 CONSTRUCTION OF SCIENCE.
Interferences, afforded the means of predicting results
under a still larger extent of conditions. In like manner
in the progress of chemical knowledge, the doctrine of
Phlogiston supplied the means of foreseeing the conse­
quence of many combinations of elements, even before
they were tried; but the Oxygen , besides afford­
ing predictions, at least equally exact, with regard to the
general results of chemical operations, included all the
facts concerning the relations of weight of the elements
and their compounds, and enabled chemists to
such facts in untried cases. And the Theory of Electro­
magnetic Forces, as soon as it was rightly understood,
enabled those who had mastered it to predict motions
such as had not been before observed, which were ac­
cordingly found to take place.
Men cannot help believing that the laws laid down by
discoverers must be in a great measure identical with the
real laws of nature, when the discoverers thus determine
effects beforehand in the same manner in which nature
herself determines them when the occasion occurs. Those
who can do this, must, to a considerable extent, have de­
tected nature’s secret;—must have fixed upon the condi­
tions to which she attends, and must have seized the rules
by which she applies them. Such a coincidence of untried
facts with speculative assertions cannot be the work of
chance, but implies some large portion of truth in the
principles on which the reasoning is founded. To trace
order and law in that which has been observed, may be
considered as interpreting what nature has written down
for us, and will commonly prove that we understand her
alphabet. But to predict what has not been observed, is
to attempt ourselves to use the legislative phrases of
nature; and when she responds plainly and precisely to
that which we thus utter, we cannot but suppose that we
have in a great measure made ourselves masters of the
meaning and structure of her language. The prediction
of results, even of the same kind as those which have
been observed, in new cases, is a proof of real success in
our inductive processes.
11. We have here spoken of the prediction of facts
of thesame kind as those from which our rule was col­
lected. But the evidence in favour of our induction is
of a much higher and more forcible character when it
enables us to explain and determine cases of a kind
different from those which were contemplated in the
formation of our hypothesis. The instances in which
this has occurred, indeed, impress us with a conviction
that the truth of our hypothesis is certain. No accident
could give rise to such an extraordinary coincidence. No
false supposition could, after being adjusted to one class
of phenomena, exactly represent a different class, when
the agreement was unforeseen and uncontemplated. That
rules springing from remote and unconnected quarters
should thus leap to the same point, can only arise from
that being the point where truth resides.
Accordingly the cases in which inductions from classes
of facts altogether different have thus jumped together,
belong only to the best established theories which the
history of science contains. And as I shall have occasion
to refer to this peculiar feature in their evidence, I will
take the liberty of describing it by a particular phrase;
and will term it the Consilience of Inductions.
It is exemplified principally in some of the greatest
discoveries. Thus it was found by Newton that the
doctrine of the Attraction of the Sun varying according
to the Inverse Square of this distance, which explained
Kepler’s Third Lam of the proportionality of the cubes of
the distances to the squares of the periodic times of the
planets, explained also his First and Second Lams of the
elliptical motion of each planet; although no connexion
V
O
L
. II. w. p. F
CHARACTERISTICS OF SCIENTIFIC INDUCTION. 6 5
6 6 CONSTRUCTION OF SCIENCE.
of these laws had beeu visible before. Again, it appeared
that the force of Universal Gravitation, which had been
inferred from the Perturbations of the moon and planets
by the sun and by each other, also accounted for the fact,
apparently altogether dissimilar and remote, of the Pre­
cession of the e
q
u
i
n
o
x
e
s
. Here was a most striking and
surprizing coincidence, which gave to the theory a stamp
of truth beyond the power of ingenuity to counterfeit
In like manner in Optics; the hypothesis of alternate Fits
of easy Transmission and Reflection would explain the
colours of thin plates, and indeed was devised and ad­
justed for that very purpose; but it could give no account
of the phenomena of the fringes of shadows. But the
doctrine of Interferences, constructed at first with refer­
ence to phenomena of the nature ofthe Fringes, explained
also the Colours of thin plates better than the supposition
of the fits invented for that very purpose. And we have
in Physical Optics another example of the same kind,
which is quite as striking as the explanation of precession
by inferences from the facts of perturbation. The doc­
trine of Undulations propagated in a Spheroidal Form
was contrived at first by Huyghens, with a view to explain
the laws of Double Refraction in calc-spar; and was pur­
sued with the same view by Fresnel. But in the course
of the investigation it appeared, in a most unexpected
and wonderful manner, that this same doctrine of sphe­
roidal undulations, when it was so modified as to account
for the directions of the two refracted rays, accounted
also for the positions of their Planes of a
phenomenon which, taken by itself, it had perplexed
previous mathematicians, even to represent.
The Theory of Universal Gravitation, and of the
Undulatory Theory of Light, are, indeed, full of examples
of this Consilience of Inductions. With regard to the
* Hist. Ind. Set., B. jx. c. xi. sect. 4.
latter, it has been justly asserted by Herschel, that the
history of the undulatory theory was a succession of
felicities*. And it is precisely the unexpected coinci­
dences of results drawn from distant parts of the subject
which are properly thus described. Thus the Laws of
the Modification of polarization to which Fresnel was
led by his general views, accounted for the Rule respect­
ing the Angle at which light is polarized, discovered by
Sir D. Brewsterf. The conceptions of the theory pointed
out peculiar Modifications of the phenomena when New­
ton's rings were produced by polarized light, which
modifications were ascertained to take place in fact, by
Arago and Airy}. When the beautiful phenomena of
Dipolarized light were discovered by Arago and Biot,
Young was able to declare that they were reducible to
the general laws of Interference which he had already
established$. And what was no less striking a confirma­
tion of the truth of the theory, Measures of the same
element deduced from various classes of facts were found
to coincide. Thus the Length of a luminiferous undu­
lation, calculated by Young from the measurement of
Fringes of shadows, was found to agree very nearly with
the previous calculation from the colours of Thin j.
No example can be pointed out, in the whole history
of science, so far as I am aware, in which this Consili­
ence of Inductions has given testimony in favour of an
hypothesis afterwards discovered to be false. If we take
one class of facts only, knowing the law which they
follow, we may construct an hypothesis, or perhaps
several, which may represent them: and as new circum­
stances are discovered, we may often adjust the hypothe­
sis so as to correspond to these also. But when the
hypothesis, of itself and without adjustment for the pur-
• See Hitt. Ind. Sci., B. ix. c. xii. t lb., c. xi. sect. 4.
X lb., c. xiii. sect. 6. § lb., c. xi. sect. 5. || lb., c. x i. sect. 2.
F 2
c h a r a c t e r ist ic s ok s c ie n t if ic in d u c t io n . 0 7
G8 CONSTRUCTION OP SCIENCE,
pose, gives us the rule and reason of a class of facts not
contemplated in its construction, we have a criterion of
its reality, which has never yet been produced in favour
of falsehood.
12. In the preceding Article I have spoken of the
hypothesis with which we compare our facts as being
framed allat o
n
c
e
, each of its parts being include
the original scheme. In reality, however, it often hap­
pens that the various suppositions which our system
contains are added upon occasion of different researches.
Thus in the Ptolemaic doctrine of the heavens, new epi­
cycles and eccentrics were added as new inequalities of
the motions of the heavenly bodies were discovered; and
in the Newtonian doctrine of material rays of light, the
supposition that these rays had “ fits,” was added to ex­
plain the colours of thin plates; and the supposition that
they had “ sides” was introduced on occasion of the phe­
nomena of polarization. In like manner other theories
have been built up of parts devised at different times.
This being the mode in which theories are often
framed, we have to notice a distinction which is found to
prevail in the progress of true and of false theories. In
the former class all the additional suppositions tend to
simplicity and harmony; the new suppositions resolve
themselves into the old ones, or at least require only
some easy modification of the hypothesis first assumed:
the system becomes more coherent as it is further ex­
tended. The elements which we require for explaining
a new class of facts are already contained in our system.
Different members of the theory run together, and we
have thus a constant convergence to unity. In false
theories, the contrary is the case. The new suppositions
are something altogether additional;—not suggested by
the original scheme ; perhaps difficult to reconcile with
it. Every such addition adds to the complexity of the
CHARACTERISTICS OF SCIENTIFIC INDUCTION. GO
hypothetical system, which at last becomes unmanage­
able, and is compelled to surrender its place to some
simpler explanation.
Such a false theory, for example, was the ancient
doctrine of eccentrics and epicycles. It explained the
general succession of the Places of the Sun, Moon, and
Planets; it would not have explained the proportion of
their Magnitudes at different times, if these could have
been accurately observed; but this the ancient astrono­
mers were unable to do. When, however, Tycho and
other astronomers came to be able to observe the planets
accurately in all positions, it was found that no combina­
tion of equable circular motions would exactly represent
all the observations. We may see, in Kepler’s works,
the many new modifications of the epicyclical hypothesis
which offered themselves to him; some of which would
have agreed with the phenomena with a certain degree
of accuracy, but not so great a degree as Kepler, for­
tunately for the progress of science, insisted upon obtain­
ing. After these epicycles had been thus accumulated,
they all disappeared and gave way to the simpler con­
ception of an elliptical motion. In like manner, the
discovery of new inequalities in the Moon’s motions
encumbered her system more and more with new machi­
nery, which was at last rejected all at once in favour of
the elliptical theory. Astronomers could not but sup­
pose themselves in a wrong path, when the prospect
grew darker and more entangled at every step.
Again; the Cartesian system of Vortices might be
said to explain the primary phenomena of the revolu­
tions of planets about the sun, and satellites about
planets. But the elliptical form of the orbits required
new suppositions. Bernoulli ascribed this curve to the
shape of the planet, operating on the stream of the vor­
tex in a manner similar to the rudder of a boat. But
70 CONSTRUCTION OF SCIENCE.
then the motions of the aphelia, and of the nodes,— the
perturbations,—even the action of gravity towards the
earth,—could not be accounted for without new and
independent suppositions. Here was none of the sim­
plicity of truth. The theory of Gravitation, on the other
hand, became more simple as the facts to be explained
became more numerous. The attraction of the sun
accounted for the motions of the planets; the attraction
of the planets was the cause of the motion of the satel­
lites. But this being assumed, the perturbations, the
motions of the nodes and aphelia, only made it requisite
to extend the attraction of the sun to the satellites, and
that of the planets to each other:—the tides, the sphe­
roidal form of the earth, the precession, still required
nothing more than that the moon and sun should attract
the parts of the earth, and that these should attract
each other;—so that all the suppositions resolved them­
selves into the single one, of the universal gravitation of
all matter. It is difficult to imagine a more convincing
manifestation of simplicity and unity.
Again, to take an example from another science;—
the doctrine of Phlogiston brought together many facts
in a very plausible manner,—combustion, acidification,
and others,—and very naturally prevailed for a while.
But the balance came to be used in chemical operations,
and the facts of weight as well as of combination were
to be accounted for. On the phlogistic theory, it
appeared that this could not be done without a new,
supposition, and t
h
a
t, a very strange one;—th
giston was an element not only not heavy, but ab­
solutely light, so that it diminished the weight of the
compounds into which it entered. Some chemists for a
time adopted this extravagant view; but the wiser of
them «aw, in the necessity of such a supposition to the
defence of the theory, an evidence that the hypothesis o f
Digitized by Googk
an element phlogiston was erroneous. And the opposite
hypothesis, which taught that oxygen was subtracted,
and not phlogiston added, was accepted because it
required no such novel and inadmissible assumption.
Again, we find the same evidence of truth in the
progress of the Undulatory Theory of light, in the course
of its application from one class of facts to another.
Thus we explain Reflection and Refraction by undula­
tions ; when we come to Thin Plates, the requisite “ fits’’
are already involved in our fundamental hypothesis, for
they are the length of an undulation: the phenomena of
Diffraction also require such intervals; and the intervals
thus required agree exactly with the others in magnitude,
so that no new property is needed. Polarization for a
moment appears to require some new hypothesis; yet
this is hardly the case; for the direction of our vibrations
is hitherto arbitrary:—we allow polarization to decide
it, and we suppose the undulations to be transverse.
Having done this for the sake of Polarization, we turn
to the phenomena of Double Refraction, and inquire
what new hypothesis they require. But the answer is,
that they require none: the supposition of transverse
vibrations, which we have made in order to explain
Polarization, gives us also the law of Double Refraction.
Tmth may give rise to such a coincidence; falsehood
cannot. Again, the facts of Dipolarization come into
view. But they hardly require any new assumption;
for the difference of optical elasticity of crystals in dif­
ferent directions, which is already assumed in uniaxal
crystals*, is extended to biaxal exactly according to the
law of symmetry; and this being done, the laws of the
phenomena,.curious and complex as they are, are fully
explained. The phenomena of Circular Polarization by
internal reflection, instead of requiring a new hypothesis,
* Hist. Inti. Sci.y B. ix. c. xi. sect. 5.
CHARACTERISTICS OF SCIENTIFIC INDUCTION. 71
72 CONSTRUCTION OF SCIENCE.
are found to be given by an interpretation of an appa­
rently inexplicable result of an old hypothesis. The
Circular Polarization of Quartz and its Double Refrac­
tion does indeed appear to require a new assumption,
but still not one which at all disturbs the form of the
theory; and in short, the whole history of this theory is
a progress, constant and steady, often striking and start­
ling, from one degree of evidence and consistence to
another of higher order.
In the Emission Theory, on the other hand, as in the
theory of solid epicycles, we see what we may consider
as the natural course of things in the career of a false
theory. Such a theory may, to a certain extent, explain
the phenomena which it was at first contrived to m eet;
but every new class of facts requires a new supposition
—an addition to the machinery: and as observation goes
on, these incoherent appendages accumulate, till they
overwhelm and upset the original frame-work. Such
has been the hypothesis of the Material Emission o f
light. In its original form, it explained Reflection and
Refraction: but the colours of Thin Plates added to it
the Fits of easy Transmission and Reflection; the phe­
nomena of Diffraction further invested the emitted
particles with complex laws of Attraction and Repul­
sion ; Polarization gave them Sides: Double Refraction
subjected them to peculiar Forces emanating from the
axes of the crystal: finally, Dipolarization loaded them
with the complex and unconnected contrivance of Move­
able Polarization: and even when all this had been done,
additional mechanism was wanting. There is here no
unexpected success, no happy coincidence, no conver­
gence of principles from remote quarters. The philoso­
pher builds the machine, but its parts do not fit. They
hold together only while he presses them. This is not
the character of truth.
As another example of the application of the Maxim
now under consideration, I may perhaps be allowed to
refer to the judgment which, in the History of Ther­
motics, I have ventured to give respecting Laplace’s
Theory of Gases. I have stated*, that we cannot help
forming an unfavourable judgment of this theory, by
looking for that great characteristic of true theory;
namely, that the hypotheses which were assumed to
account for one class of facts are found to explain
another class of a different nature. Thus Laplace’s firs
suppositions explain the connexion of Compression with
Density, (the law of Boyle and Mariotte,) and the con­
nexion of Elasticity with Heat, (the law of Dalton and
Gay Lussac.) But the theory requires other assumptions
when we come to Latent Heat; and yet these new
assumptions produce no effect upon the calculations in
any application of the theory. When the hypothesis,
constructed with reference to the Elasticity and Tem­
perature, is applied to another class of facts, those of
Latent Heat, we have no Simplification of the Hypothe­
sis, and therefore no evidence of the truth of the theory.
13. The two last sections of this chapter direct our
attention to two circumstances, which tend to prove, in
a manner which we may term irresistible, the truth of
the theories which they characterize :—the Consilience qf
Inductions from different and separate classes of facts ;
—and the progressive Simplification of the Theory as it
is extended to new cases. These two Characters are, in
fact, hardly different ; they are exemplified by the same
cases. For if these Inductions, collected from one class
of facts, supply an unexpected explanation of a new class,
which is the case first spoken of, there will be no need
for new machinery in the hypothesis to apply it to the
newly-contemplated facts ; and thus, we have a case in
* H itt. Ind. Sci., B. x. c. iv\
CHARACTERISTICS OF SCIENTIFIC INDUCTION. 73
74 CONSTRUCTION OF SCIENCE.
which the system does not become more complex when
its application is extended to a wider field, which was
the character of true theory in its second aspect. The
Consiliences of our Inductions give rise to a constant
Convergence of our Theory towards Simplicity and Unity.
But, moreover, both these cases of the extension of
the theory, without difficulty or new suppositions, to a
wider range and to new classes of phenomena, may be con­
veniently considered in yet another point of view; namely,
as successive steps by which we gradually ascend in our
speculative views to a higher and higher point of gene­
rality. For when the theory, either by the concurrence of
two indications, or by an extension without complication,
has included a new range of phenomena, we have, in fact,
a new induction of a more general kind, to which the
inductions formerly obtained are subordinat e s parti­
cular cases to a general proposition. We.^jj* in such
examples, in short, an instance of successive Snei'aliza-
tion. This is a subject of great importance, fhd deserv­
ing of being well illustrated; it will come; under our
notice in the next chapter.
C h a p t e r VI.
OF THE LOGIC OF INDUCTION.
1. The subject to which the present chapter refers is
described by phrases which are at the present day fami­
liarly used in speaking of the progress of knowledge.
We hear very frequent mention of ascending from p a r­
ticular to general propositions, and from these to propo­
sitions still more general;—of truths included in other
truths of a higher degree of generality ;—of different
stages of generalization ;—and of the highest step of the
THE LOGIC OF INDUCTION.
process of discovery, to which all others are subordinate
and preparatory. As these expressions, so familiar to our
ears, especially since the time of Francis Bacon, denote,
very significantly, processes and relations which are of
great importance in the formation of science, it is neces­
sary for us to give a clear account of them, illustrated
with general exemplifications; and this we shall endea­
vour to do.
We have, indeed, already explained that science con­
sists of propositions which include the facts from which
they were collected ; and other wider propositions, col­
lected in like manner from the former, and including
them. Thus, that the stars, the moon, the sun, rise, cul­
minate, and set, are facts included in the proposition that
the heavens, carrying with them all the celestial bodies,
have a diurnal revolution about the axis of the earth.
Again, the observed monthly motions of the moon, and
the annual motions of the sun, are included in certain
propositions concerning the movements of those lumi­
naries with respect to the stars. But all these proposi­
tions are really included in the doctrine that the earth,
revolving on its axis, moves round the sun, and the
moon round the earth. These movements, again, consi­
dered as facts, are explained and included in the state­
ment of the forces which the earth exerts upon the moon,
and the sun upon the earth. Again, this doctrine of
the forces of these two bodies is included in the asser­
tion, that all the bodies of the solar system, and all parts
of matter, exert forces, each upon each. And we might
easily show that all the leading facts in astronomy are
comprehended in the same generalization. In like man­
ner with regard to any other science, so far as its truths
have been well established and fully developed, we might
show that it consists of a gradation of propositions, pro­
ceeding from the most special facts to the most general
t o
7G CONSTRUCTION OF SCIENCE.
theoretical assertions. We shall exhibit this gradation
in some of the principal branches of science.
2. This gradation of truths, successively included in
other truths, may be conveniently represented by
resembling the genealogical tables by which the deriva­
tion of descendants from a common ancestor is exhibited ;
except that it is proper in this case to invert the form of
the Table, and to make it converge to unity downwards
instead of upwards, since it has for its purpose to express,
not the derivation of many from one, but the collection
of one truth from many things. Two or more co-ordinate
facts or propositions may be ranged side by side, and
joined by some mark of connexion, (a bracket, as '— «
—
or 1
-------->,) beneath which may be placed the more
general proposition which is collected by induction from
the former. Again, propositions co-ordinate with this
more general one may be placed on a level with it ; and
the combination of these, and the result of the combina­
tion, may be indicated by brackets in the same manner ;
and so on, through any number of gradations. By this
means the streams of knowledge from various classes of
facts will constantly run together into a smaller and
smaller number of channels ; like the confluent rivulets
of a great river, coming together from many sources,
uniting their ramifications so as to form larger branches,
these again uniting in a single trunk. The genealogi­
cal tree of each great portion of science, thus formed,
will contain all the leading truths of the science arranged
in their due co-ordination and subordination. Such
Tables, constructed for the sciences of Astronomy and of
Optics, will be given at the end of this chapter.
3. The union of co-ordinate propositions into a pro­
position of a higher order, which occurs in this Tree of
Science wherever two twigs unite in one branch, is, in
each case, an example of Induction. The single propo-
THE LOGIC OF INDUCTION. 77
8ition is collected by the process of induction from its
several members. But here we may observe, that the
image of a mere union of the parts at each of these
points, which the figure of a tree or a river presents, is
very inadequate to convey the true state of the case; for
in Induction, as we have seen, besides mere collection of
particulars, there is always a new , a principle
of connexion and unity, supplied by the mind, and super­
induced upon the particulars. There is not merely a
juxta-position of materials, by which the new proposition
contains all that its component parts contained; but also
a formative act exerted by the understanding, so that
these materials are contained in a new shape. We must
remember, therefore, that our Inductive Tables, although
they represent the elements and the order of these induc­
tive steps, do not fully represent the whole signification
of the process in each case.
4. The principal features of the progress of science
spoken of in the last chapter are clearly exhibited in
these Tables; namely, the Consilience of , and
the constant Tendency to Simplicity observable in true
theories. Indeed in all cases in which from propositions
of considerable generality, propositions of a still higher
degree are obtained, there is a convergence of inductions;
and if in one of the lines which thus converge, the steps
be rapidly and suddenly made in order to meet the
other line, we may consider that we have an example of
Consilience. Thus when Newton had collected from
Kepler’s Laws the Central Force of the sun, and from
these, combined with other facts, the Universal Force of
all the heavenly bodies, he suddenly turned round to
include in his generalization the Precession of the Equi­
noxes, which he declared to arise from the attraction of
the sun and moon upon the protuberant part of the ter­
restrial spheroid. The apparent remoteness of this fact,
in its nature, from the others with which he thus asso-
78 CONSTRUCTION OF SCIENCE.
dated it, causes this part of his reasoning to strike us
as a remarkable example of Consilience. Accordingly,
in the Table of Astronomy we find that the columns
which contain the facts and theories relative to the sun
and planets, after exhibiting several stages of induction
within themselves, are at length suddenly connected with
a column till then quite distinct, containing the precession
of the equinoxes. In like manner, in the Table of Optics,
the columns which contain the facts and theories relative
to double refraction, and those which include polarization
by crystals, each go separately through several stages of
induction; and then these two sets of columns are sud­
denly connected by Fresnel’s mathematical induction that
double refraction and polarization arise from the same
cause: thus exhibiting a remarkable Consilience.
5. The constant Tendency to Simplicity in the sciences
of which the progress is thus represented, appears from
the form of the Table itself; for the single trunk into
which all the branches converge, contains in itself the
substance of all the propositions by means of which this
last generalization was arrived at. It is true, that this
ultimate result is sometimes not so simple as in the Table
it appears: for instance, the ultimate generalization of
the Table exhibiting the progress of Physical Optics,—
namely, that Light consists in Undulations,—must be
understood as including some other hypotheses; as, that
the undulations are transverse, that the ether through
which they are propagated has its elasticity in crystals
and other transparent bodies regulated by certain laws;
and the like. Yet still, even acknowledging all the com­
plication thus implied, the Table in question evidences
clearly enough the constant advance towards unity, con­
sistency, and simplicity, which have marked the progress
of this Theory. The same is the case in the Inductive
Table of Astronomy in a still greater degree.
• 6. These Tables naturally afford the opportunity of
Digitized by Googk
THE LOGIC OF INDUCTION. 79
assigning to each of the distinct steps of which the pro­
gress of science consists, the name of the Discoverer to
whom it is due. Every one of the inductive processes
which the brackets of our Tables mark, directs our atten­
tion to some person by whom the induction was first
distinctly made. These names I have endeavoured to
put in their due places in the Tables; and the Inductive
Tree of our knowledge in each science becomes, in this
way, an exhibition of the claims of each discoverer to
distinction, and, as it were, a Genealogical Tree of scien­
tific nobility. It is by no means pretended that such a
tree includes the names of all the meritorious labourers
in each department of science. Many persons are most
usefully employed in collecting and verifying truths, who
do not advance to any new truths. The labours of a
number of such are included in each stage of our ascent.
But such Tables as we have now before us will present
to us the names of all the most eminent discoverers: for
the main steps of which the progress of science consists,
are transitions from more particular to more general
truths, and must therefore be rightly given by these
Tables; and those must be the greatest names in
science to whom the principal events of its advance are
thus due.
7. The Tables, as we have presented them, exhibit
the course by which we pass from particular to general
through various gradations, and so to the most general.
They display the order of discovery. But by reading
them in an inverted manner, beginning at the single
comprehensive truths with which the Tables end, and
tracing these back into the more partial truths, and these
again into special facts, they answer another purpose;—
they exhibit the process of verification of discoveries once
made. For each of our general propositions is true in
virtue of the'truth of the narrower propositions which it
8 0 CONSTRUCTION OF SCIENCE.
involves; and we cannot satisfy ourselves of its truth in
any other way than by ascertaining that these its consti­
tuent elements are true. To assure ourselves that the
sun attracts the planets with forces varying inversely as
the square of the distance, we must analyze by geometry
the motion in an ellipse about the focus, so as to see
that it does imply such a force. We must also verify
those calculations by which the observed places of each
planet are stated to be included in an ellipse. These cal­
culations involve assumptions respecting the path which
the earth describes about the sun, which assumptions
must again be verified by reference to observation. And
thus, proceeding from step to step, we resolve the most
general truths into their constituent parts; and these
again into their parts; and by testing, at each step, both
the reality of the asserted ingredients and the propriety
of the conjunction, we establish the whole system of
truths, however wide and various it may be.
8. It is a very great advantage, in such a mode of
exhibiting scientific truths, that it resolves the verifica­
tion of the most complex and comprehensive theories,
into a number of small steps, of which almost any one
falls within the reach of common talents and industry.
That ifthe particulars of any one step be true, the gene­
ralization also is true, any person with a mind properly
disciplined may satisfy himself by a little study. That
each ofthese particular propositions is true, may be ascer­
tained, by the same kind of attention, when this propo­
sition is resolved into its constituent and more special
propositions. And thus we may proceed, till the most
general truth is broken up into small and manageable
portions. Of these portions, each may appear by itself
narrow and easy; and yet they are so woven together,
by hypothesis and conjunction, that the truth of the
parts necessarily assures us of the truth of the whole.
THE LOGIC OF INDUCTION. 81
The verification is of the same nature as the verification
of a large and complex statement of great sums re­
ceived by a mercantile office on various accounts from
many quarters. The statement is separated into certain
comprehensive heads, and these into others less exten­
sive; and these again into smaller collections of sepa­
rate articles, each of which can be inquired into and
reported on by separate persons. And thus at last, the
mere addition of numbers performed by these various
persons, and the summation of the results which they
obtain, executed by other accountants, is a complete and
entire security that there is no error in the whole of the
process.
9. This comparison of the process by which we verify
scientific truth to the process of Book-keeping in a large
commercial establishment, may appear to some persons
not sufficiently dignified for the subject. But, in fact,
the possibility of giving this formal and business-like
aspect to the evidence of science, as involved in the pro­
cess of successive generalization, is an inestimable ad­
vantage. For if no one could pronounce concerning
a wide and profound theory except he who could at once
embrace in his mind the whole range of inference, ex­
tending from the special facts up to the most general
principles, none but the greatest geniuses would be en­
titled to judge concerning the truth or errour of scientific
discoveries. But, in reality, we seldom need to verify
more than one or two steps of such discoveries at one
time; and this may commonly be done (when the dis­
coveries have been fully established and developed,) by
any one who brings to the task clear conceptions and
steady attention. The progress of science is gradual:
the discoveries which are successively made, are also
verified successively. We have never any very large
collections of them on our hands at once. The doubts
G
VOL. I I. W . P .
82 CONOTRUCTION OF SCIENCE.
and uncertainties of any one who has studied science
with care and perseverance are generally confined to a
few points. If he can satisfy himself upon these, he has
no misgivings respecting the rest of the structure; which
has indeed been repeatedly verified by other persons in
like manner. The fact that science is capable of being
resolved into separate processes of verification, is that
which renders it possible to form a great body of scien­
tific truth, by adding together a vast number of truths,
of which many men, at various times and by multiplied
efforts, have satisfied themselves. The treasury of Science
is constantly rich and abundant, because it accumulates
the wealth which is thus gathered by so many, and
reckoned over by so many more: and the dignity of
Knowledge is no more lowered by the multiplicity of
the tasks on which her servants are employed, and the
narrow field of labour to which some confine them­
selves, than the rich merchant is degraded by the num­
ber of offices which it is necessary for him to maintain,
and the minute articles of which he requires an exact
statement from his accountants.
10. The analysis of doctrines inductively obtained,
into their constituent facts, and the arrangement of them
in such a form that the conclusiveness of the induction
may be distinctly seen, may be termed the Logic of In­
duction. By Logic has generally been meant a system
which teaches us so to arrange our reasonings that their
truth or falsehood shall be evident in their form. In
deductive reasonings, in which the general principles are
assumed, and the question is concerning their applica­
tion and combination in particular cases, the device
which thus enables us to judge whether our reasonings
are conclusive, is the Syllogism; and this foj'm, along
with the rules which belong to it, does in fact supply us
with a criterion of deductive or demonstrative reasoning.
THE LOGIC OF INDUCTION. 83
The Inductive T
a
b
l
e
, such as it is presented in the pre­
sent chapter, in like manner supplies the means of ascer­
taining the truth of our inductive inferences, so far as
the form in which our reasoning may be stated can
afford such a criterion. Of course some care is requisite
in order to reduce a train of demonstration into the form
ofa series of syllogisms; and certainly not less thought
and attention are required for resolving all the main
doctrines of any great department of science into a gra­
duated table of co-ordinate and subordinate inductions.
But in each case, when this task is once executed, the
evidence or want of evidence of our conclusions appears
immediately in a most luminous manner. In each step
of induction, our Table enumerates the particular facts,
and states the general theoretical truth which includes
these and which these constitute. The special act of
attention by which we satisfy ourselves that the facts are
so included,—that the general truth is so constituted,—
then affords little room for errour, with moderate atten­
tion and clearness of thought.
11. We may find an example of this act of attention
thus required, at any one of the steps of induction in our
Tables; for instance, at the step in the early progress of
astronomy at which it was inferred, that the earth is a
globe, and that the sphere of the heavens performs a
diurnal revolution round this globe of the earth. How
was this established in the belief of the Greeks, and how
is it fixed in our conviction ? As to the globular form,
we find that as we travel to the north, the apparent pole
of the heavenly motions, and the constellations which
are near it, seem to mount higher, and as we proceed
southwards they descend. Again, if we proceed from
two different points considerably to the east and west of
each other, and travel directly northwards from each, as
from the south of Spain to the north of Scotland, and
g 2
84 CONSTRUCTION' OF SCIENCE.
from Greece to Scandinavia, these two north and south
lines will be much nearer to each other in their northern
than in their southern parts. These and similar facts,
as soon as they are clearly estimated and connected in
the mind, are seento be consistent with a convex
of the earth, and with no other: and this notion is
further confirmed by observing that the boundary of the
earth’s shadow upon the moon is always circular; it
being supposed to be already established that the moon
receives her light from the sun, and that lunar eclipses
are caused by the interposition of the earth. As for the
assertion of the diurnal revolution of the starry sphere,
it is merely putting the visible phenomena in an exact
geometrical form: and thus we establish and verify the
doctrine of the revolution of the sphere of the heavens
about the globe of. the earth, by contemplating it so as
to see that it does really and exactly include the par­
ticular facts from which it is collected.
We may, in like raauuer, illustrate this mode of veri­
fication by any of the other steps of the same Table.
Thus if we take the great Induction of Copernicus, the
heliocentric scheme of the solar system, we find it in the
Table exhibited as including and explaining, the
diurnal revolution just spoken of; second, the motions
of the moon among the fixed stars; third, the motions
of the planets with reference to the fixed stars and the
sun ; fourth, the motion of the sun in the ecliptic. And
the scheme being clearly conceived, we see that all the
particular facts are faithfully represented by it; and this
agreement, along with the simplicity of the scheme, in
which respect it is so far superior to any other concep­
tion of the solar system, persuade us that it is really the
plan of nature.
In exactly the same way, if we attend to any of the
several remarkable discoveries of Newton, which form
THE LOGIC OF INDUCTION. 8 5
the principal steps in the latter part of the Table, as for
instance, the proposition that the sun attracts all the
planets with a force which varies inversely as the square
of the distance, we find it proved by its including three
other propositions previously established;—-first, that the
sun’s mean force on different planets follows the specified
variation (which is proved from Kepler’s third law);
second, that the force by which each planet is acted upon
in different parts of its orbit tends to the sun (which is
proved by the equable description of areas); that
this force in different parts of the same orbit is also
inversely as the square of the distance (which is proved
from the elliptical form of the orbit). And the New­
tonian generalization, when its consequences are mathe­
matically traced, is seen to agree with each of these
particular propositions, and thus is fully established.
12. But when we say that the more general propo­
sition includes the several more particular ones, we must
recollect what has before been said, that these par­
ticulars form the general truth, not by being merely
enumerated and added together, but by being seen in a
new light. No mere verbal recitation of the particulars
can decide whether the general proposition is true; a
special act of thought is requisite in order to determine
bow truly each is included in the supposed induction.
In this respect the Inductive Table is not like a mere
schedule of accounts, where the rightness of each part
of the reckoning is tested by mere addition of the par­
ticulars. On the contrary, the Inductive truth is never
the mere sum of the facts. It is made into something
more by the introduction of a new mental element; and
the mind, in order to be able to supply this element,
must have peculiar endowments and discipline. Thus
looking back at the instances noticed in the last article,
how are we to see that a convex surface of the earth is
86 CONSTRUCTION OF SCIENCE.
necessarily implied by the convergence of meridians
towards the north, or by the visible descent of the north
pole of the heavens as we travel south ? Manifestly the
student, in order to see this, must have clear conceptions
of the relations of space, either naturally inherent in his
mind, or established there by geometrical cultivation,—
by studying the properties of circles and spheres. When
he is so prepared, he will feel the force of the expres­
sions we have used, that the facts just mentioned are
seen tobe consistent with a globular form of the earth;
but without such aptitude he will not see this consis­
tency: and if this be so, the mere assertion of it in
words will not avail him in satisfying himself of the
truth of the proposition.
In like manner, in order to perceive the force of the
Copernican induction, the student must have his mind
so disciplined by geometrical studies, or otherwise, that
he sees clearly how absolute motion and relative motion
would alike produce apparent motion. He must have
learnt to cast away all prejudices arising from the seem­
ing fixity of the earth; and then he will see that there
is nothing which stands in the way of the induction,
while there is much which is on its side. And in the
same manner the Newtonian induction of the law of the
sun’s force from the elliptical form of the orbit, will be
evidently satisfactory to him only who has such an
insight into Mechanics as to see that a curvilinear path
must arise from a constantly deflecting force; and who
is able to follow the steps of geometrical reasoning by
which, from the properties of the ellipse, Newton proves
this deflection to be in the proportion in which he
asserts the force to be. And thus in all cases the
inductive truth must indeed be verified by comparing
it with the particular facts; but then this compari­
son is possible for him only whose mind is properly
THE LOGIC OF INDUCTION. 87
disciplined and prepared in the use of those conceptions,
which, in addition to the facts, the act of induction
requires.
13. In the Tables some indication is given, at several
of the steps, of the act which the mind must thus per­
form, besides the mere conjunction of facts, in order to
attain to the inductive truth. Thus in the cases of the
Newtonian inductions just spoken of, the inferences are
stated to be made “ By M echanicsand in the case of
the Copernicau induction, it is said that, “ By the nature
of motion, the apparent motion is the 6ame, whether
the heavens or the earth have a diurnal motion; and the
latter is more simple.” But these verbal statements are
to be understood as mere hints*: they cannot supersede
the necessity of the student’s contemplating for himself
the mechanical principles and the nature of motion thus
referred to.
14. In the Common or Syllogistic Logic, a certain
Formula of language is used in stating the reasoning,
and is useful in enabling us more readily to apply the
Criterion of Form to alleged demonstrations. This for­
mula is the usual Syllogism; with its members, Major
Premiss, Minor Premiss, and Conclusion. It may natu­
rally be asked whether in Inductive Logic there is any
such Formula? whether there is any standard form of
words in which we may most properly express the infer­
ence of a general truth from particular facts ?
At first it might be supposed that the formula of
Inductive Logic need only be of this kind: “ These par­
ticulars, and all known particulars of the same kind, are
exactly included in the following general proposition.”
But a moment’s reflection on what has just been said
will show us that this is not sufficient: for the particulars
are not merely inducted in the general proposition. It
* In the Inductive Tables they are marked by an asterisk
88 CONSTRUCTION OF SCIENCE.
is not enough that they appertain to it by enumeration.
It is, for instance, no adequate example of Induction to
say, “ Mercury describes an elliptical path, so does Venus,
so do the Earth, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus; there­
fore all the Planets describe elliptical paths.” This is,
as we have seen, the mode of stating the evidence when
the proposition is once suggested; but the Inductive step
consists in the suggestion of a conception not before
apparent. When Kepler, after trying to connect the
observed places of the planet Mars in many other ways,
found at last that the conception of an ellipse would
include them all, he obtained a truth by induction: for
this conclusion was not obviously included in the pheno­
mena, and had not been applied to these facts previously.
Thus in our Formula, besides stating that the particulars
are included in the general proposition, we must also
imply that the generality is constituted by a new Con­
ception,—new at least in its application.
Hence our Inductive Formula might be something
like the following: “ These particulars, and all known
particulars of the same kind, are exactly expressed by
adopting the Conceptions and Statement of the following
Proposition.” It is of course requisite that the Concep­
tions should be perfectly clear, and should precisely
embrace the facts, according to the explanation we have
already given of those conditions.
15. It may happen, as we have already stated, that
the Explication of a Conception, by which it acquires its
due distinctness, leads to a Definition, which Definition
may be taken as the summary and total result of the
intellectual efforts to which this distinctness is due. In
such cases, the Formula of Induction may be modified
according to this condition; and we may state the infer­
ence by saying, after an enumeration and analysis of the
appropriate facts, “ These facts are completely and dis-
TI1E LOGIC OF INDUCTION. 8 9
tinctly expressed by adopting the following Definition
and Proposition.”
This Formula has been adopted in stating the Induc­
tive Propositions which constitute the basis of the sci­
ence of Mechanics, in a work intitled Mechanical
Euclid. The fundamental truths of the subject are
expressed in Inductive Pairs of Assertions, consisting
each of a Definition and a Proposition, such as the fol­
lowing :
Def.—A Uniform Force is that which acting in the
direction of the body’s motion, adds or subtracts equal
velocities in equal times.
P rop.—Gravity is a Uniform Force.
Again,
Def.—Two Motions are compounded when each pro­
duces its separate effect in a direction parallel to itself.
Prop.—When any Force acts upon a body in motion,
the motion which the Force would produce in the body
at rest is compounded with the previous motion of the
body.
And in like manner in other cases.
In these cases the proposition is, of course, esta­
blished, and the definition realized, by an enumeration
of the facts. And in the case of inferences made in
such a form, the Definition of the Conception and the
Assertion of the Truth are both requisite and are cor­
relative to one another. Each of the two steps contains
the verification and justification of the other. The Pro­
position derives its meaning from the Definition; the
Definition derives its reality from the Proposition. If
they are separated, the Definition is arbitrary or empty,
the Proposition vague or ambiguous.
16. But it must be observed that neither of the pre­
ceding Formulae expresses the full cogency of the induc­
tive proof. They declare only that the results can be
Digitized by Googk
90 CONSTRUCTION OF SCIENCE.
clearly explained and rigorously deduced by the employ­
ment of a certain Definition and a certain Proposition.
But in order to make the conclusion demonstrative,
which in perfect examples of Induction it is, we ought
to be able to declare that the results can be clearly
explained and rigorously declared by the Definition
and Proposition which we adopt. And in reality, th e
conviction of the sound inductive reasoner does reach
to this point. The Mathematician asserts the Laws o f
Motion, seeing clearly that they (or laws equivalent t o
them) afford the only means of clearly expressing and
deducing the actual facts. But this conviction, that th e
inductive inference is not only consistent with the facts,
but necessary, finds its place in the mind gradually, a s
the contemplation of the consequences of the proposi­
tion, and the various relations of the facts, becomes
steady and familiar. It is scarcely possible for the stu­
dent at once to satisfy himself that the inference is thus
inevitable. And when he arrives at this conviction, h e
sees also, in many cases at least, that there may be other
ways of expressing the substance of the truth established,
besides that special Proposition which he has under his
notice.
We may, therefore, without impropriety, renounce
the undertaking of conveying in our formula this final
conviction of the necessary truth of our inference. W e
may leave it to be thought, without insisting upon say­
ing it, that in such cases what can be true, is true. But
if we wish to express the ultimate significance of the
Inductive Act of thought, we may take as our Formula
for the Colligation of Facts by Induction, this:— “ The
several Facts are exactly expressed as one Fact if and
only if, we adopt the Conception and the Assertion” of
the inductive inference.
17. I have said that the mind must be properly dis-
THE LOGIC OF INDUCTION. 91
ciplined in order that it may see the necessary connexion
between the facts and the general proposition in which
they are included. And the perception of this connexion,
though treated as onestep in our inductive in
may imply many steps of demonstrative proof. The con­
nexion is this, that the particular case is included in the
general one, that is, may be deduced from it: but this
deduction may often require many links of reasoning.
Thus in the case of the inference of the law of the force
from the elliptical form of the orbit by Newton, the
proof that in the ellipse the deflection from the tangent
is inversely as the square of the distance from the focus
of the ellipse, is a ratiocination consisting of several
steps, and involving several properties of Conic Sections;
these properties being supposed to be previously estar
blished by a geometrical system of demonstration on
the special subject of the Conic Sections. In this and
similar cases the Induction involves many steps of Deduc­
tion. And in such cases, although the Inductive Step,
the Invention of the Conception, is really the most
important, yet since, when once made, it occupies a
familiar place in men’s minds; and since the Deductive
Demonstration is of considerable length and requires
intellectual effort to follow it at every step; men often
admire the deductive part of the proposition, the geo­
metrical or algebraical demonstration, far more than
that part in which the philosophical merit really resides.
18. Deductive reasoning is virtually a collection of
syllogisms, as has already been stated; and in such rea­
soning, the general principles, the Definitions and Axioms,
necessarily stand at the beginning of the demonstration.
In an inductive inference, the Definitions and Principles
are the final result of the reasoning, the ultimate effect
of the proof. Hence when an Inductive Proposition is
to be established by a proof involving several steps of
9 2 CONSTRUCTION OF SCIENCE.
demonstrative reasoning, the enunciation of the Proposi­
tion will contain, explicitly or implicitly, principles which
the demonstration proceeds upon as axioms, but which
are really inductive inferences. Thus in order to prove
that the force which retains a planet in an ellipse varies
inversely as the square of the distance, it is taken for
granted that the Laws of Motion are true, and that
they apply to the planets. Yet the doctrine that this
is so, as well as the law of the force, were established
only by this and the like demonstrations. The doctrine
which is the hypothesis of the deductive reasoning, is
the inference of the inductive process. The special facts
which are the basis of the inductive inference, are the
conclusion of the train of deduction. And in this man­
ner the deduction establishes the induction. The prin­
ciple which we gather from the facts is true, because the
facts can be derived from it by rigorous demonstration.
Induction moves upwards, and deduction downwards, on
the same stair.
But still there is a great difference in the character
of their movements. Deduction descends steadily and
methodically, step by step: Induction mounts by a leap
which is out of the reach of method. She bounds to the
top of the stair at once; and then it is the business of
Deduction, by trying each step in order, to establish the
solidity of her companion’s footing. Yet these must be
processes of the same mind. The Inductive Intellect
makes an assertion which is subsequently justified by
demonstration; and it shows its sagacity, its peculiar
character, by enunciating the proposition when as yet the
demonstration does not exist: but then it shows that it
is sagacity, by also producing the demonstration.
It has been said that inductive and deductive reason­
ing are contrary in their scheme; that in Deduction we
infer particular from general truths ; while in Induction
THE LOGIC OF INDUCTION. 93
we infer general from particular : that Deduction con­
sists of many steps, in each of which we apply known
general propositions in particular cases ; while in Induc­
tion we have a single step, in which we pass from many
particular truths to one general proposition. And this
is truly said ; but though contrary in their motions, the
two are the operation of the same mind travelling over
the same ground. Deduction is a necessary part of
Induction. Deduction justifies by calculation what In­
duction had happily guessed. Induction recognizes the
ore of truth by its weight ; Deduction confirms the recog­
nition by chemical analysis. Every step of Induction
must be confirmed by rigorous deductive reasoning, fol­
lowed into such detail as the nature and complexity of
the relations (whether of quantity or any other) render
requisite. If not so justified by the supposed discoverer,
it is notInduction.
19. Such Tabular arrangements of propositions as we
have constructed may be considered as the Criterion of
Truth for the doctrines which they include. They are
the Criterion of Inductive Truth, in the same sense in
which Syllogistic Demonstration is the Criterion of
Necessary Truth,—of the certainty of conclusions, de­
pending upon evident First Principles. And that 6uch
Tables are really a Criterion of the truth of the propo­
sitions which they contain, will be plain by examining
their structure. For if the connexion which the induc­
tive process assumes be ascertained to be in each case
real and true, the assertion of the general proposition
merely collects together ascertained truths ; and in like
manner each of those more particular propositions is
true, because it merely expresses collectively more spe­
cial facts : so that the most general theory is only the
assertion of a great body of facts, duly classified and
9 4 CONSTRUCTION OF SCIENCE.
subordinated. When we assert the truth of the Coper-
nican theory of the motions of the solar system, or of
the Newtonian theory of the forces by which they are
caused, we merely assert the groups of propositions
which, in the Table of Astronomical Induction, are in­
cluded in these doctrines; and ultimately, we may con­
sider ourselves as merely asserting at once so many
Facts, and therefore, of course, expressing an indisput­
able truth.
20. At any one of these steps of Induction in the
Table, the inductive proposition is a Theory with regard
to the Facts which it includes, while it is to be looked
upon as a Fact with respect to the higher generaliza­
tions in which it is included. In any other sense, as
was formerly shown, the opposition of Fact and Theory
is untenable, and leads to endless perplexity and debate.
Is it a Fact or a Theory that the planet Mars revolves in
an Ellipse about the Sun? To Kepler, employed in
endeavouring to combine the separate observations by
the Conception of an Ellipse, it is a Theory; to Newton,
engaged in inferring the law of force from a knowledge
of the elliptical motion, it is a Fact. There are, as we
have already seen, no special attributes of Theory and
Fact which distinguish them from one another. Facts
are phenomena apprehended by the aid of conceptions
and mental acts, as Theories also are. We commonly
call our observations Facts, when we apply, without
effort or consciousness, conceptions perfectly familiar to
us: while we speak of Theories, when we have previously
contemplated the Facts and the connecting Conception
separately, and have made the connexion by a conscious
mental act. The real difference is a difference of rela­
tion ; as the same proposition in a demonstration is the
premiss of one syllogism and the conclusion in another;
THE LOGIC OF INDUCTION. 9 5
—as the same person is a father and a son. Propositions
are Facts and Theories, according as they stand above
or below the Inductive Brackets of our Tables.
21. To obviate mistakes I may remark that the terms
higher and lower, when used of generalizations, are un­
avoidably represented by their opposites in our Induc­
tive Tables. The highest generalization is that which
includes all others; and this stands the lowest on our
page, because, reading downwards, that is the place
which we last reach.
There is a distinction of the knowledge acquired by
Scientific Induction into two kinds, which is so important
that we shall consider it in the succeeding chapter.
Chapter VII.
OF LAW S OF PHENOMENA AND OF CAUSES.
1. I n the first attempts at acquiring an exact and
connected knowledge of the appearances and operations
which nature presents, men went no further than to
learn what takes place, not why it occurs. They dis­
covered an Order which the phenomena follow, Rules
which they obey; but they did not come in sight of the
Powers by which these rules are determined, the Causes
of which this order is the effect. Thus, for example,
they found that many of the celestial motions took place
as if the sun and stars were carried round by the revolu­
tions of certain celestial spheres; but what causes kept
these spheres in constant motion, they were never able
to explain. In like manner in modern times, Kepler
discovered that the planets describe ellipses, before New­
ton explained why they select this particular curve, and
describe it in a particular manner. The laws of reflec-
96 CONSTRUCTION OF SCIENCE.
tion, refraction, dispersion, and other properties of light
have long been known; the causes of these laws are at
present under discussion. And the same might be said
of many other sciences. The discovery of the Laws of
Phenomena is, in all cases, the first step in exact know­
ledge ; these Laws may often for a long period constitute
the whole of our science; and it is always a matter re­
quiring great talents and great efforts, to advance to a
knowledge of the Causes of the phenomena.
Hence the larger part of our knowledge of nature, at
least of the certain portion of it, consists of the know­
ledge of the Laws of Phenomena. In Astronomy indeed,
besides knowing the rules which guide the appearances,
and resolving them into the real motions from which
they arise, we can refer these motions to the forces which
produce them. In Optics, we have become acquainted
with a vast number of laws by which varied and beau­
tiful phenomena are governed; and perhaps we may
assume, since the evidence of the undulatory theory has
been so fully developed, that we know also the Causes
of the Phenomena. But in a large class of sciences,
while we have learnt many Laws of Phenomena, the
causes by which these are produced are still unknown
or disputed. Are we to ascribe to the operation of a
fluid or fluids, and if so, in what manner, the facts of
heat, magnetism, electricity, galvanism ? What are the
forces by which the elements of chemical compounds
are held together? What are the forces, of a higher
order, as we cannot help believing, by which the course
of vital action in organized bodies is kept up ? In these
and other cases, we have extensive departments of sci­
ence; but we are as yet unable to trace the effects to
their causes; and our science, so far as it is positive and
certain, consists entirely of the laws of phenomena.
2. In those cases in which we have a division of the
LAWS OP PHENOMENA AND OP CAUSES. or
science which teaches us the doctrine of the causes, as
well as one which states the rules which the effects fol­
low, I have distinguished the two portions of the science
by certain terms. I have thus spoken of Formal Astro­
nomy and Physical Astronomy. The latter phrase has
long been commonly employed to describe that depart­
ment of Astronomy which deals with those forces by
which the heavenly bodies are guided in their motions;
the former adjective appears well suited to describe a
collection of rules depending on those ideas of space,
time, position, number, which are, as we have already
said, the forms of our apprehension of phenomena.
The laws of phenomena may be considered as ,
expressing results in terms of those ideas. In like man­
ner, I have spoken of Formal Optics and Physical Optics;
the latter division including all speculations concern­
ing the machinery by which the effects are produced.
Formal Acoustics and Physical Acoustics may be dis­
tinguished in like manner, although these two portions
of science have been a good deal mixed together by most
of those who have treated of them. Formal Thermotics,
the knowledge of the laws of the phenomena of heat,
ought in like manner to lead to Physical Thermotics, or
the Theory of Heat with reference to the mode in which
its effects are produced;—a branch of science which as
yet can hardly be said to exist.
3. What kinds of cause are we to admit in science ?
This is an important, and by no means an easy question.
In order to answer it, we must consider in what manner
our progress in the knowledge of causes has hitherto
been made. By far the most conspicuous instance of
success in such researches, is the discovery of the causes
of the motions of the heavenly bodies. In this case,
after the formal laws of the motions,—their conditions
as to space and time,—had become known, men were
vol. n. w. p. H
9 8 CONSTRUCTION OF SCIENCE.
enabled to go a step further; to reduce them to the
familiar and general cause of motion—mechanical force;
and to determine the laws which this force follows.
That this was a step in addition to the knowledge pre­
viously possessed, and that it was a real and peculiar
truth, will not be contested. And a step in any other
subject which should be analogous to this in astronomy;
—a discovery of causes and forces as certain and clear
as the discovery of universal gravitation;—would un­
doubtedly be a vast advance upon a body of science con­
sisting only of the laws of phenomena.
4. But although physical astronomy may well be
taken as a standard in estimating the value and magni­
tude of the advance from the knowledge of phenomena
to the knowledge of causes; the peculiar features of the
transition from formal to physical science in that subject
must not be allowed to limit too narrowly our views of
the nature of this transition in other cases. We are not,
for example, to consider that the step which leads us to
the knowledge of causes in any province of nature must
necessarily consist in the discovery of centers of forces,
and collections of such centers, by which the effects are
produced. The discovery of the causes of phenomena
may imply the detection of a fluid by whose undulations,
or other operations, the results are occasioned. The
phenomena of acoustics are, we know, prqduced in this
manner by the air; and in the cases of light, heat, mag­
netism, and others, even if we reject all the theories of
such fluids which have hitherto been proposed, we still
cannot deny that such theories are intelligible and pos­
sible, as the discussions concerning them have shown.
Nor can it be doubted that if the assumption of such
a fluid, in any case, were as well evidenced as the doc­
trine of universal gravitation is, it must be considered as
a highly valuable theory.
LAWS OF PHENOMENA AND OF CAUSES. 0 9
5. But again; not only must we, in aiming at the
formation of a Causal Section in each Science of Pheno­
mena, consider fluids and their various modes of opera­
tion admissible, as well as centers of mechanical force;
but we must be prepared, if it be necessary, to consider
the forces, or powers to which we refer the phenomena,
under still more general aspects, and invested with
characters different from mere mechanical force. For
example; the forces by which the chemical elements of
bodies are bound together, and from which arise, both
their sensible texture, their crystalline form, and their
chemical composition, are certainly forces of a very
different nature from the mere attraction of matter
according to its mass. The powers of assimilation and
reproduction in plants and animals are obviously still
more removed .from mere mechanism; yet these powers
are not on that account less real, nor a less fit and
worthy subject of scientific inquiry.
6. In fact, these forces—mechanical, chemical and
vital,—as we advance from one to the other, each bring
into our consideration new characters; and what these
characters are, has appeared in the survey which we have
made of the Fundamental Ideas of the various sciences.
It was then shown that the forces by which chemical
effects are produced necessarily involve the Idea of
Polarity,—they are polar forces; the particles tend
together in virtue of opposite properties which in the
combination neutralize each other. Hence, in attempt­
ing to advance to a theory of Causes in chemistry, our
task is by no means to invent laws of mechanical force,
and collections of forces, by which the effects may be
produced. We know beforehand that no such attempt
can succeed. Our aim must be to conceive such new
kinds of force, including polarity among their characters,
as may best render the results intelligible.
HS
1 0 0 CONSTRUCTION OF SCIENCE.
7. Thus in advancing to a Science of Cause in any
subject, the labour and the struggle is, not to ana­
lyze the phenomena according to any preconceived and
already familiar ideas, but to form distinctly new concep­
tions, such as do really carry us to a more intimate view
of the processes of nature. Thus in the case of astro­
nomy, the obstacle which deferred the discovery of the
true causes from the time of Kepler to that of Newton,
was the difficulty of taking hold of mechanical concep­
tions and axioms with sufficient clearness and steadiness;
which, during the whole of that interval, mathematicians
were learning to do. In the question of causation which
now lies most immediately in the path of science, that of
the causes of electrical and chemical phenomena, the
business of rightly fixing and limiting the conception of
polarity, is the proper object of the efforts of discoverers.
Accordingly a large portion of Mr. Faraday’s recent
labours* is directed, not to the attempt at discovering
new laws of phenomena, but to the task of throwing
light upon the conception of polarity, and of showing
how it must be understood, so that it shall include elec­
trical induction and other phenomena, which have com­
monly been ascribed to forces acting mechanically at a
distance. He is by no means content, nor would it
answer the ends of science that he should be, with
stating the results of his experiments; he is constantly,
in every page, pointing out the interpretation of his
experiments, and showing how the conception of polar
forces enters into this, interpretation. “ I shall,” he
saysf, “ use every opportunity which presents itself of
returning to that strong test of truth, experiment; but,”
he adds, “ I shall necessarily have occasion to speak
* Eleventh, Twelfth, and Thirteenth Series of Researches, Phil.
Tuans. 1837 and 8.
i t Art. 1318.
LAWS OF PHENOMENA AND OF CAUSES. 101
theoretically, and even hypothetically.” His hypothesis
that electrical inductive action always takes place by
means of a continuous line of polarized particles, and
not by attraction and repulsion at a distance, if esta­
blished, cannot fail to be a great step on our way
towards a knowledge of causes, as well as phenomena,
in the subjects under his consideration.
8. The process of obtaining new conceptions is, to
most minds, far more unwelcome than any labour in
employing old ideas. The effort is indeed painful and
oppressive; it is feeling in the dark for an object which
we cannot find. Hence it is not surprizing that we
should far more willingly proceed to seek for new causes
by applying conceptions borrowed from old ones. Men
were familiar with solid frames, and with whirlpools of
fluid, when they had not learnt to form any clear con­
ception of attraction at a distance. Hence they at first
imagined the heavenly motions to be caused by crystalline
spheres, and vortices. At length they were taught to
conceive central forces, and then they reduced the solar
system to these. But having done this, they fancied that
all the rest of the machinery of nature must be central
forces. We find Newton expressing this conviction*,
and the mathematicians of the last century acted upon it
very extensively. We may especially remark Laplace’s
labours in this field. Having explained, by such forces,
the phenomena of capillary attraction, he attempted to
apply the same kind of explanation to the reflection,
refraction, and double refraction of light;—to the con­
stitution of gases;—the operation of heat. It was soon
seen that the explanation of refraction was arbitrary, and
that of double refraction illusory; while polarization
entirely eluded the grasp of this machinery. Centers of
force would no longer represent the modes of causation
• Malta me movent, &c., Pref. to tho Principia, already quoted.
102 CONSTRUCTION OF SCIENCE.
which belonged to the phenomena. Polarization re­
quired some other contrivance, such as the undulatory
theory supplied. No theory of light can be of any avail
in which the fundamental idea of polarity is not clearly
exhibited.
9. The sciences of magnetism and electricity have
given rise to theories in which this relation of polarity is
exhibited by means of two opposite fluidsj-;—a positive
and a negative fluid, or a vitreous and a resinous, for elec­
tricity, and a boreal and an austral fluid for magnetism.
The hypothesis of such fluids gives results agreeing in a
remarkable manner with the facts and their measures, as
Coulomb and others have shown. It may be asked how
far we may, in such a case, suppose that we have dis­
covered the true cause of the phenomena, and whether it
is sufficiently proved that these fluids really exist. The
right answer seems to be, that the hypothesis certainly
represents the truth so far as regards the polar relation
of the two energies, and the laws of the attractive and
repulsive forces of the particles in which these energies
reside; but that we are not entitled to assume that the
vehicles of these energies possess other attributes of ma­
terial fluids, or that the forces thus ascribed to the parti­
cles are the primary elementary forces from which the
action originates. We are the more bound to place this
cautious limit to our acceptance of the Coulombian theory,
since in electricity Faraday has in vain endeavoured to
bring into view one of the polar fluids without the other:
whereas such a result ought to be possible if there were
two separable fluids. The impossibility of this separate
exhibition of one fluid appears to show that the fluids are
real only so far as they are polar. And Faraday’s view
above mentioned, according to which the attractions at a
distance are resolved into the action of lines of polarized
* Hist. Tnd. S c i B. xi. c. iL
LAWS OF PHENOMENA AND OF CAUSES. 1 0 3
particles of air, appears still further to show that the con­
ceptions hitherto entertained of electrical forces, accord­
ing to the Coulombian theory, do not penetrate to the
real and intimate nature of the causation belonging to
this case.
10. Since it is thus difficult to know when we have
seized the true cause of the phenomena in any depart­
ment of science, it may appear to some persons that
physical inquirers are imprudent and unphilosophical in
undertaking this research of causes; and that it would
be safer and wiser to confine ourselves to the investigation
of the laws of phenomena, in which field the knowledge
which we obtain is definite and certain. Hence there
have not been wanting those who have laid it down as a
maxim that “ science must study only the laws of phe­
nomena, and never the mode of production*.” But it is
easy to see that such a maxim would confine the breadth
and depth of scientific inquiries to a most scanty and
miserable limit. Indeed, such a rule would defeat its
own object; for the laws of phenomena, in many cases,
cannot be even expressed or understood without some
hypothesis respecting their mode of production. How
could the phenomena of polarization have been conceived
or reasoned upon, except by imagining a polar arrange­
ment of particles, or transverse vibrations, or some equi­
valent hypothesis ? The doctrines of fits of easy trans­
mission, the doctrine of moveable polarization, and the
like, even when erroneous as representing the whole of
the phenomena, were still useful in combining some of
them into laws; and without some such hypotheses the
facts could not have been followed out. The doctrine
of a fluid caloric may be false; but without imagining
such a fluid, how could the movement of heat from
one part of a body to another be conceived ? It may
• Comte, Pkilojtopkie Positive;
104 CONSTRUCTION OF SCIENCE.
•be replied that Fourier, Laplace, Poisson, who have
principally cultivated the Theory of Heat, have not
conceived it as a fluid, but have referred conduction
to the radiation of the molecules of bodies, which they
suppose to be separate points. But this molecular con­
stitution of bodies is itself an assumption of the mode
in which the phenomena are produced; and the radia­
tion of heat suggests inquiries concerning a fluid emana­
tion, no less than its conduction does. In like manner,
the attempts to connect the laws of phenomena of heat
and of gases, have led to hypotheses respecting the
constitution of gases, and the combination of their par­
ticles with those of caloric, which hypotheses may be
false, but are probably the best means of discovering the
truth.
To debar science from inquiries like these, on the
ground that it is her business to inquire into facts, and
not to speculate about causes, is a curious example of
that barren caution which hopes for truth without daring
to venture upon the quest of it. This temper would
have stopped with Kepler’s discoveries, and would have
refused to go on with Newton to inquire into the mode
in which the phenomena are produced. It would have
stopped with Newton’s optical facts, and would have
refused to go on with him and his successors to inquire
into the mode in which these phenomena are produced.
And, as we have abundantly shown, it would, on that
very account, have failed in seeing what the phenomena
really are.
In many subjects the attempt to study the laws of
phenomena, independently of any speculations respecting
the causes which have produced them, is neither possible
for human intelligence nor for human temper. Men can­
not contemplate the phenomena without clothing them
in terms of some hypothesis, and will not be schooled to
LAWS OF PHENOMENA AND OF CAUSES. 105
suppress the questionings which at every moment rise up
within them concerning the causes of the phenomena.
Who can attend to the appearances which come under
the notice of the geologist;—strata regularly bedded, full
of the remains of animals such as now live in the depths
of the ocean, raised to the tops of mountains, broken,
contorted, mixed with rocks such as still flow from the
mouths of volcanos;—who can see phenomena like these,
and imagine that he best promotes the progress of our
knowledge of the earth’s history, by noting down the
facts, and abstaining from all inquiry whether these are
really proofs of past states of the earth and of subter­
raneous forces, or merely an accidental imitation of the
effects of such causes? In this and similar cases, to
proscribe the inquiry into causes would be to annihilate
the science.
Finally, this caution does not even gain its own single
end, the escape from hypotheses. For, as we have said,
those who will not seek for new and appropriate causes
of newly-studied phenomena, are almost inevitably led
to ascribe the facts to modifications of causes already
familiar. They may declare that they will not hear of
such causes as vital powers, elective affinities, electric, or
calorific, or luminiferous ethers or fluids; but they will
not the less on that account assume hypotheses equally
unauthorized; for instance—universal mechanical forces;
a molecular constitution of bodies; solid, hard, inert
matter;—and will apply these hypotheses in' a manner
which is arbitrary in itself as well as quite insufficient
for its purpose.
11. It appears, then, to be required, both by the
analogy of the most successful efforts of science in past
times and by the irrepressible speculative powers of the
human mind, that we should attempt to discover both
the Ians ofphenomena, and their . In every de-
100 CONSTRUCTION OF SCIENCE.
partment of science, when prosecuted far enough, these
two great steps of investigation must succeed each other.
The laws of phenomena must be known before we can
speculate concerning causes; the causes must be inquired
into when the phenomena have been reduced to rule.
In both these speculations the suppositions and concep­
tions which occur must be constantly tested by reference
to observation and experiment. In both we must, as far
as possible, devise hypotheses which, when we thus test
them, display those characters of truth of which we have
already spoken ;—an agreement with facts such as will
stand the most patient and rigid inquiry ; a provision for
predicting truly the results of untried cases; a consi­
lience of inductions from various classes of facts; and
a progressive tendency of the scheme to simplicity and
We shall attempt hereafter to give several rules
of a more precise and detailed kind for the discovery
of the causes, and still more, of the laws of pheno­
mena. But it will be useful in the first place to point
out the Classification of the Sciences which results from
the principles already established in this word. And
for this purpose we must previously decide the question,
whether the practical Arts, as Medicine and Engineering,
must be included in our list of Sciences.
1. The distinction of Arts and Sciences very mate­
rially affects all classifications of the departments of Hu­
man Knowledge. It is often maintained, expressly or
tacitly, that the Arts are a part of our knowledge, in the
unity.
Chapter VIII.
OF A RT AND SCIENCE.
OF ART AND SCIENCE. 107
same sense in which the Sciences are so; and that Art
is the application of Science to the purposes of practical
life. It will be found that these views require some
correction, when we understand Science in the exact
sense in which we have throughout endeavoured to con­
template it, and in which alone our examination of its
nature can instruct us in the true foundations of our
knowledge.
When we cast our eyes upon the early stages of the
histories of nations, we cannot fail to be struck with the
consideration, that in many countries the Arts of life
already appear, at least in some rude form or other,
when, as yet, nothing of science exists. A practical
knowledge of astronomy, such as enables them to reckon
months and years, is found among all nations except the
mere savages. A practical knowledge of mechanics must
have existed in those nations which have left us the
gigantic monuments of early architecture. The pyramids
and temples of Egypt and Nubia, the Cyclopean walls
of Italy and Greece, the temples of Magna Graecia and
Sicily, the obelisks and edifices of India, the cromlechs
and Druidical circles of countries formerly Celtic,—must
have demanded no small practical mechanical skill and
power. Yet those modes of reckoning time must have
preceded the rise of speculative astronomy; these struc­
tures must have been erected before the theory of me­
chanics was known. To suppose, as some have done,
a great body of science, now lost, to have existed in the
remote ages to which these remains belong, is not only
quite gratuitous and contrary to all analogy, but is a
supposition which cannot be extended so far as to explain
all such cases. For it is impossible to imagine that excry
art has been preceded by the science which renders a
reason for its processes. Certainly men formed wine from
the grape, before they possessed a science of fermentation;
108 CONSTRUCTION OF SCIENCE.
the first instructor of every artificer in brass and iron
can hardly be supposed to have taught the chemistry of
metals as a science; the inventor of the square and the
compasses had probably no more knowledge of demon­
strated geometry than have the artisans who now use
those implements; and finally, the use of speech, the
employment of the inflections and combinations of words,
must needs be assumed as having been prior to any
general view of the nature and analogy of language.
Even at this moment, the greater part of the arts which
exist in the world are not accompanied by the sciences
on which they theoretically depend. Who shall state
to us the general chemical truths to which the manu­
factures of glass, and porcelain, and iron, and brass,
owe their existence? Do not almost all artisans prac­
tise many successful artifices long before science ex­
plains the ground of the process? Do not arts at this
day exist, in a high state of perfection, in countries in
which there is no science, as China and India? These
countries and many others have no theories of mecha­
nics, of optics, of chemistry, of physiology; yet they
construct and use mechanical and optical instruments,
make chemical combinations, take advantage of physio­
logical laws. It is too evident to need further illustra­
tion that art may exist without science;—that it has
usually been anterior to it, and even now commonly
advances independently, leaving science to follow as it
can.
2. We here mean by Science, that exact, general,
speculative knowledge, of which we have, throughout
this work, been endeavouring to exhibit the nature and
rules. Between such science and the ‘
practical Arts of
life, the points of difference are sufficiently manifest.
The object of Science is Knowledge; the object of Art
are Works. The latter is satisfied with producing its
OF ART AND SCIENCE. 109
material results; to the former, the operations of matter,
whether natural or artificial, are interesting only so far
as they can be embraced by intelligible principles. The
end of art is the beginning of science; for when it is
seen whatis done, then comes the question why it is done.
Art may have fixed general rules, stated in words; but
she has these merely as means to an end: to Science,
the propositions which she obtains are each, in itself, a
sufficient end of the effort by which it is acquired. When
Art has brought forth her product, her task is finished;
Science is constantly led by one step of her path to
another. Each proposition which she obtains impels her
to go onwards to other propositions more general, more
profound, more simple. Art puts elements together,
without caring to know what they are, or why they
coalesce. Science analyzes the compound, and at every
such step strives not only to perform, but to understand
the analysis. Art advances in proportion as she becomes
able to bring forth products more multiplied, more
complex, more various; but Science, straining her eyes
to penetrate more and more deeply into the nature of.
things, reckons her success in proportion as she sees,
in all the phenomena, however multiplied, complex, and
varied, the results of one or two simple and general
laws.
3. There are many acts which man, as well as animals,
performs by the guidance of nature, without seeing or
seeking the reason why he does so; as the acts by which
he balances himself in standing or moving, and those by
which he judges of the form and position of the objects
around him. These actions have their reason in the
principles of geometry and mechanics; but of such rea­
sons he who thus acts is unaware: he works blindly,
under the impulse of an unknown principle which we call
Instinct. When man’s speculative nature seeks and finds
110 CONSTRUCTION OF SCIENCE.
the reasons why he should act thus or thus;—why he
should stretch out his arm to prevent his falling, or
assign a certain position to an object in consequence of
the angles under which it is seen;—he may perform the
same actions as before, but they are then done by the
aid of a diiferent faculty, which, for the sake of dis­
tinction, we may call Insight. Instinct is a purely
active principle; it is seen in deeds alone; it has no
power of looking inwards; it asks no questions; it has
no tendency to discover reasons or rules; it is the oppo­
site of Insight.
4. Art is not identical with Instinct: on the contrary,
there are broad diiferences. Instinct is stationary; Art
is progressive. Instinct is mute; it acts, but gives no
rules for acting: Art can speak; she can lay down rules.
But though Art is thus separate from Instinct, she is not
essentially combined with Insight. She can see what to
do, but she needs not to see why it is done. She may
lay down rules, but it is not her business to give reasons.
When man makes that his employment, he enters upon
the domain of science. Art takes the phenomena and
laws of nature as she finds them: that they are multiplied,
complex, capricious, incoherent, disturbs her not. She is
content that the rules of nature’s operations should be
perfectly arbitrary and unintelligible, provided they are
constant, so that she can depend upon their effects. But
Science is impatient of all appearance of caprice, incon­
sistency, irregularity, in nature. She will not believe in
the existence of such characters. She resolves one appa­
rent anomaly after another; her task is not ended till
every thing is so plain and simple, that she is tempted to
believe she sees that it could by no possibility have been
otherwise than it is.
5. It may be said that, after all, Art does really
involve the knowledge which Science delivers;—that the
OF ART AND SCIENCE. I ll
artisan who raises large weights, practically knows the
properties of the mechanical powers;—that he who
manufactures chemical compounds is virtually acquainted
with the laws of chemical combination. To this we reply,
that it might on the same grounds be asserted, that he
who acts upon the principle that two sides of a triangle
are greater than the third is really acquainted with geo­
metry; and that he who balances himself on one foot
knows the properties of the center of gravity. But this
is an acquaintance with geometry and mechanics which
even brute animals possess. It is evident that it is not
o f such knowledge as this that we have here to treat
I t is plain that this mode of possessing principles is alto­
gether different from that contemplation of them on which
science is founded. We neglect the most essential and
manifest differences, if we confound our unconscious
assumptions with our demonstrative reasonings.
6. The real state of the case is, that the principles
which Art involves, Science alone evolves. The truths on
which the success of Art depends, lurk in the artist’s
mind in an undeveloped state; guiding his hand, stimu­
lating his invention, balancing his judgment, but not
appearing in the form of enunciated propositions. Prin­
ciples are not to him direct objects of meditation: they
are secret Powers of Nature, to which the forms which
tenant the world owe their constancy, their movements,
their changes, their luxuriant and varied growth, but
which he can nowhere directly contemplate. That the
creative and directive principles which have their lodg­
ment in the artist’s mind, when unfolded by our specu­
lative powers into systematic shape, become science, is
true; but it is precisely this process of developement
which gives to them their character of science. In prac­
tical Art, principles are unseen guides, leading us by
invisible strings through paths where the end alone is
112 CONSTRUCTION OF SCIENCE.
looked at: it is for Science to direct and purge our
vision so that these airy ties, these principles and laws,
generalizations and theories, become distinct objects o f
vision. Many may feel the intellectual monitor, but it
is 'only to her favourite heroes that the Goddess o f
Wisdom visibly reveals herself.
7. Thus Art, in its earlier stages at least, is widely
different from Science, independent of it, and anterior t o
it. At a later period, no doubt, Art may borrow aid
from Science; and the discoveries of the philosopher
may be of great value to the manufacturer and the artist.
But even then, this application forms no essential part
of the science: the interest which belongs to it is not
an intellectual interest. The augmentation of human
power and convenience may impel or reward the physical
philosopher; but the processes by which man’s repasts
are rendered more delicious, his journeys more rapid, his
weapons more terrible, are not, therefore, Science. They
may involve principles which are of the highest interest
to science; but as the advantage is not practically more
precious because it results from a beautiful theory, so
the theoretical principle has no more conspicuous place
in science because it leads to convenient practical conse­
quences. The nature of science is purely intellectual;
knowledge alone,— exact general truth,—is her object;
and we cannot mix with such materials, as matters of the
same kind, the merely empirical maxims of art, without
introducing endless confusion into the subject, and
making it impossible to attain any solid footing in our
philosophy.
8. I shall therefore not place, in our Classification of
the Sciences, the Arts, as has generally been done; nor
shall I notice the applications of sciences to art, as
forming any separate portion of each science. The
sciences, considered as bodies of general speculative
OF ART AND SCIENCE. 1 13
truths, are what we are here concerned with ; and appli­
cations of such truths, whether useful or useless, are
important to us only as illustrations and examples.
Whatever place in human knowledge the Practical Arts
may hold, they are not Sciences. And it is only by this
rigorous separation of the Practical from the Theoretical,
that we can arrive at any solid conclusions respecting
the nature of truth, and the mode of arriving at it, such
as it is our object to attain.
Chapter IX.
O F T H E CLASSIFICATION OF SCIENCES.
1. T h e Classification of Sciences has its chief use in
pointing out to us the extent of our powers of arriving at
truth, and the analogies which may obtain between those
certain and lucid portions of knowledge with which we
are here concerned, and those other portions, of a very
different interest and evidence, which we here purposely
abstain to touch upon. The classification of human
knowledge will, therefore, have a more peculiar import­
ance when we can include in it the moral, political, and
metaphysical, as well as the physical portions of our
knowledge. But such a survey does not belong to our
present undertaking: and a general view of the con­
nexion and order of the branches of sciences which our
review has hitherto included, will even now possess some
interest; and may serve hereafter as an introduction to
a more complete scheme of the general body of human
knowledge.
2. In this, as in any other case, a sound classification
must be the result, not of any assumed principles impe­
ratively applied to the subject, but of an examination of
VOL. II. w. p. I
1 1 4 CONSTRUCTION OF SCIENCES.
the objects to be classified;—of an analysis of them
into the principles in which they agree and differ. The
Classification of Sciences must result from the consider­
ation of their nature and contents. Accordingly, that
review of the sciences in which the History of them
engaged us, led to a Classification, of which the main
features are indicated in that work. The Classification
thus obtained, depends neither upon the faculties of the
mind to which the separate parts of our knowledge owe
their origin, nor upon the objects which each science
contemplates; but upon a more natural and fundamental
element;— namely, the Ideas which each science involves.
The Ideas regulate and connect the facts, and are th e
foundations of the reasoning, in each science: and having
in the present work more fully examined these Ideas, w e
are now prepared to state here the classification to which
they lead. If we have rightly traced each science to th e
Conceptions which are really fundamental with regard
to it, and which give rise to the first principles on which
it depends, it is not necessary for our purpose that w e
should decide whether these Conceptions are absolutely
ultimate principles of thought, or whether, on the con­
trary, they can be further resolved into other Funda­
mental Ideas. We need not now suppose it determined
whether or not Number is a mere modification of th e
Idea of Time, and Force a mere modification of the Idea
of Cause: for however this may be, our Conception o f
Number is the foundation of Arithmetic, and our Concep­
tion of Force is the foundation of Mechanics. It is to
be observed also that in our classification, each Science
may involve, not only the Ideas or Conceptions which are
placed opposite to it in the list, but also all which 'precede
it. Thus Formal Astronomy involves not only the Con­
ception of Motion, but also those which are the found­
ation of Arithmetic and Geometry. In like manner,
CLASSIFICATION OF SCIENCES. 115
Physical Astronomy employs the Sciences of Statics and
Dynamics, and thus, rests on their foundations; and they,
in turn, depend upon the Ideas of Space and of Time, as
well as of Cause.
3. We may further observe, that this arrangement of
Sciences according to the Fundamental Ideas which they
involve, points out the transition from those parts of
human knowledge which have been included in our
History and Philosophy, to other regions of speculation
into which we have not entered. We have repeatedly
found ourselves upon the borders of inquiries of a psycho­
logical, or moral, or theological nature. Thus the History
of Physiology* led us to the consideration of Life, Sen­
sation, and Volition; and at these Ideas we stopped, that
we might not transgress the boundaries of our subject
as then predetermined. It is plain that the pursuit of
such conceptions and their consequences, would lead us
to the sciences (if we are allowed to call them sciences)
which contemplate not only animal, but human prin­
ciples of action, to Anthropology and Psychology. In
other ways, too, the Ideas which we have examined,
although manifestly the foundations of sciences such as
we have here treated of, also plainly pointed to specula­
tions of a different order; thus the Idea of a Final Cause
is an indispensable guide in Biology, as we have seen;
but the conception of Design as directing the order of
nature, once admitted, soon carries us to higher contem­
plations. Again, the Class of Palsetiological Sciences
which we were in the History led to construct, although
we there admitted only one example of the Class, namely
Geology, does in reality include many vast lines of
research; as the history and causes of the diffusion of
plants and animals, the history of languages, arts, and
* Hixi. fnd. Sci. B. xvu. c, v. sect. 2.
12
116 CONSTRUCTION OF SCIENCES.
consequently of civilization. Along with these researches,
comes the question how far these histories point back­
wards to a natural or a supernatural origin; and the Idea
of a First Cause is thus brought under our consideration.
Finally, it is not difficult to see that as the Physical
Sciences have their peculiar governing Ideas, which sup­
port and shape them, so the Moral and Political Sciences
also must similarly have their fundamental and formative
Ideas, the source of universal and certain truths, each of
their proper kind. But to follow out the traces of this
analogy, and to verify the existence of those Fundamental
Ideas in Morals and Politics, is a task quite out of the
sphere of the work in which we are here engaged.
4. We may now place before the reader our Classifica­
tion of the Sciences. I have added to the list of Sciences*
a few not belonging to our present subject, that the
nature of the transition by which we are to extend our
philosophy into a wider and higher region may be in
some measure perceived.
We may observe that the term Physics, when confined
to a peculiar class of Sciences, is usually understood to
exclude the Mechanical Sciences on the one side, and
Chemistry on the other; and thus embraces the Secondary
Mechanical and Analytico-Mechanical Sciences. But
the adjective Physical applied to any science and opposed
to Formal, as in Astronomy and Optics, implies those
speculations in which we consider not only the Laws of
Phenomena but their Causes; and generally, as in those
cases, their Mechanical Causes.
CLASSIFICATION OF SCIENCES. 117
Pumi*mentil Ideai or
Conception».
Space .
Time .
Number
Sign .
Limit .
Motion.
Science*.
Geometry
Arithmetic
Algebra
Differentials
Pure Mechanism
Formal Astronomy
Clawificitioo.
Pure Mathematical
’ enees.
Sci-
Cauae
Force
Matter . . .
Inertia . . .
Fluid Pressure .
Outness
Medium of Sensation
Intensity qf Qualities
Scales of Qualities.
Polarity . .
Element (Composition)
Chemical Affinity
Substance (Atoms)
Symmetry . .
Likeness . .
Degrees of Likeness
Natural Affinity .
(Vital Powers)
Assimilation
Irritability
(Organization) .
Final Cause
Instinct
Emotion . .
Thought
Historical Causation
Statics . . .
Dynamics . .
Hydrostatics .
Hydrodynamics .
Physical Astronomy
Acoustics *
Formal Optics
Physical Optics
Thermotics .
Atmology .
Electricity .
Magnetism .
Galvanism .
-Pure Motional Sciences
Mechanical Sciences.
Secondary Mechanical Sci­
ences.
(Physics.)
1
Analytico-Mechanical Sci­
ences.
(Physics.)
Chemistry . .
Crystallography .
Systematic Mineralogy
Systematic Botany
Systematic Zoology
Comparative Anatomy
Biology
Analytical Science.
1 Analytico-Classificatory
* Sciences.
Classificatory Sciences.
Org&nical Sciences.
First Cause .
Psychology
Geology . .
Distribution of Plants
and Animals .
Glossology ♦ .
Ethnography
Natural Theology.
‘ Palætiologieal Sciences.
Digitized by Googk
118 CONSTRUCTION OF SCIENCES.
In the next Book, we shall trace the opinions of some
of the most eminent writers, respecting the sources of
our knowledge of nature and the rules which may aid us
in seeking it. For the knowledge of a true Scientific
Method is a science resembling other sciences; and the
ideas and views which it involves have been in some mea­
sure gradually developed into clearness and certainty by
successive attempts. We may, therefore, acquire a more
confident persuasion of the right direction of our path,
by seeing how far it coincides with that which has been
pointed out, with more or less distinctness, by many of
the most sagacious and vigorous intellects who have
bestowed their attention upon this inquiry.
119
BOOK XII.
REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON THE N ATU RE
OF KNO W LEDGEAND THE M ETHODS
OF SEEKING IT.
C h a p t e r I.
I N T R O D U C T I O N .
B y the examination of the elements of human thought
in which we have been engaged, and by a consideration
of the history of the most clear and certain parts of
our knowledge, we have been led to certain doctrines
respecting the progress of that exact and systematic
knowledge which we call Science; and these doctrines
we have endeavoured to lay before the reader in the
preceding Book. The questions on which we have thus
ventured to pronounce have had a strong interest for
man, from the earliest period of his intellectual progress,
and have been the subjects of lively discussion and bold
speculation in every age. We conceive that in the doc­
trines to which our researches have conducted us, we
have a far better hope that we possess a body of per­
manent truths, than the earlier essays on the same
subjects could furnish. For we have not taken our
examples of knowledge at hazard, as earlier speculators
did, and were almost compelled to do; but have drawn
our materials from the vast store of unquestioned truths
which modern science offers to u s: and we have formed
our judgment concerning the nature and progress of
knowledge by considering what such science is, and how
it has reached its present condition. But though we
have thus pursued our speculations concerning know­
ledge with advantages which earlier writers did not pos­
sess, it is still both interesting and instructive for us to
regard the opinions upon this subject which have been
delivered by the philosophers of past times. It is espe­
cially interesting to see some of the truths which we
have endeavoured to expound, gradually dawning in
men’s minds, and assuming the clear and permanent
form in which we can now contemplate them. I shall
therefore, in this Book, pass in review many of the opi­
nions of the writers of various ages concerning the
mode by which man best acquires the truest knowledge;
and I shall endeavour, as we proceed, to appreciate the
real value of such judgments, and their place in the pro­
gress of sound philosophy.
In this estimate of the opinions of others, I shall
be guided by those general doctrines which I have, as
I trust, established in the preceding part of this work.
And without attempting here to give any summary of
these doctrines, I may remark that there are two main
principles by which speculations on such subjects in all
ages are connected and related to each other; namely,
the opposition of Ideas and , and the distinc­
tion of practical and speculative knowledge. The oppo­
sition of Ideas and Sensations is exhibited to us in the
antithesis of Theory and Fact, which are necessarily
considered as distinct and of opposite natures, and yet
necessarily identical, and constituting Science by their
identity. In like manner, although practical knowledge
is in substance identical with speculative, (for all know­
ledge is speculation,) there is a distinction between the
two in their history, and in the subjects by which they
are exemplified, which distinction is quite essential in
1 2 0 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
Digitized by Googk
INTRODUCTION. 121
judging of the philosophical views of the ancients. The
alternatives of identity and diversity, in these two anti­
theses,—the successive separation, opposition, and reunion
of principles which thus arise,—have produced, (as they
may easily be imagined capable of doing,) a long and
varied series of systems concerning the nature of know­
ledge ; among which w$ shall have to guide our course
by the aid of the views already presented.
I am far from undertaking, or wishing, to review the
whole series of opinions which thus comes under our
view; and I do not even attempt to examine all the
principal authors who have written on such subjects. I
merely wish to select some of the most considerable
forms which such opinions have assumed, and to point
out in some measure the progress of truth from age to
age. In doing this, I can only endeavour to seize some
of the most prominent features of each time and of each
step; and I must pass rapidly from classical antiquity to
those which we have called the dark ages, and from them
to modern times. At each of these periods the modifi­
cations of opinion, and the speculations with which they
were connected, formed a vast and tangled maze, into
the byways of which our plan does not allow us to enter.
We shall esteem ourselves but too fortunate, if we can
discover the single track by which ancient led to modern
philosophy.
I must also repeat that my survey of philosophical
writers is here confined to this one point,—their opi­
nions on the nature of knowledge and the method of
science. I with some effort avoid entering upon other
parts of the philosophy of those of whom I speak; I
knowingly pass by those portions of their speculations
which are in many cases the most interesting and cele­
brated ;—their opinions concerning the human soul, the
Divine governor of the world, the foundations or leading
122 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
doctrines of politics, religion, and general philosophy.
I am desirous that my reader should bear this in mind,
since he must otherwise be offended with the scanty and
partial view which I give in this place of the philoso­
phers whom I enumerate.
C h a p t e r IL
PLA TO .
T h e r e would be small advantage in beginning our ex­
amination earlier than the period of the Socratic School
at Athens; for although the spirit of inquiry on such
subjects had awoke in Greece at an earlier period, and
although the peculiar aptitude of the Grecian mind for
such researches had shown itself repeatedly in subtle
distinctions and acute reasonings, all the positive results
of these early efforts were contained in a more definite
form in the reasonings of the Platonic age. Anterior to
that time, the Greeks did not possess plain and familiar
examples of exact knowledge, such as the truths o f
Arithmetic, Geometry, Astronomy, and Optics, became
in the school of Plato; nor were the antitheses of which
we spoke above, so distinctly and fully unfolded as we
find them in Plato’s works.
The question which hinges upon one of these anti­
theses, occupies a prominent place in several of the
Platonic dialogues;—namely, whether our knowledge be
obtained by means of Sensation or of Ideas. One of the
doctrines which Plato most earnestly inculcated upon his
countrymen was, that we do not know concerning sen­
sible objects, but concerning ideas. The first attempts
of the Greeks at metaphysical analysis had given rise to
a school which maintained that material objects are the
PLATO. 1 2 3
only realities. In opposition to this, arose another
school, which taught that material objects have no per­
manent reality, but are ever waxing and waning, con­
stantly changing their substance. “ And hence,” as
Aristotle says*, “ arose the doctrine of ideas which the
Platonists held. For they assented to the opinion of
Heraclitus, that all sensible objects are in a constant
state of flux. So that if there is to be any knowledge
and science, it must be concerning some permanent
natures, different from the sensible natures of objects;
for there can be no permanent science respecting that
which is perpetually changing. It happened that So­
crates turned his speculations to the moral virtues, and
was the first philosopher who endeavoured to give uni­
versal definitions of such matters. He wished to reason
systematically, and therefore he tried to establish defi­
nitions, for definitions are the basis of systematic rea­
soning. There are two things which may justly be
looked upon as steps in philosophy due to Socrates;
inductive reasonings, and universal definitions;—both of
them steps which belong to the foundations of science.
Socrates, however, did not make universale, or definitions
separable from the objects; but his followers separated
them, and these essences they termed Ideas'' And the
same account is given by other writersf. “ Some exist­
ences are sensible, some intelligible: and according to
Plato, they who wish to understand Hie principles of
things, must first separate the ideas from the things,
such as the ideas of Similarity, Unity, Number, Magni­
tude, Position, Motion: second, that we must assume an
absolute Fair, Good, Just, and the like: third, that
we must consider the ideas of relation, as Knowledge,
Power: recollecting that the things which we perceive
have this or that appellation applied to them because
* M tla p h xii. 4. t Diog. Laert. Vit. Plat.
124 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
they partake of this or that Idea; those things being just
which participate in the idea of The Just, those being
beautiful,, which contain the idea of The Beautiful.”
And many of the arguments by which this doctrine was
maintained are to be found in the Platonic dialogues.
Thus the opinion that true knowledge consists in sen­
sation, which had been asserted by Protagoras and others,
is refuted in the Tlwwtetus: and we may add, so victori­
ously refuted, that the arguments there put forth have
ever since exercised a strong influence upon the specu­
lative world. It may be remarked that in the minds
of Plato and of those who have since pursued the
same paths of speculation, the interest of such discus­
sions as those we are now referring to, was by no means
limited to their bearing upon mere theory; but was
closely connected with those great questions of morals
which have always a practical import. Those who as­
serted that the only foundation of knowledge was sen­
sation, asserted also that the only foundation of virtue
was the desire of pleasure. And in Plato, the meta­
physical part of the disquisitions concerning knowledge
in general, though independent in its principles, always
seems to be subordinate in its purpose to the questions
concerning the knowledge of our duty.
Since Plato thus looked upon the Ideas which were
involved in each department of knowledge as forming its
only essential part, it was natural that he should look
upon the study of Ideas as the true mode of pursuing
knowledge. This he himself describes in the
“ The best way of arriving at truth is not very difficult to
point out, but most hard to pursue. All the arts which
have ever been discovered, were revealed in this manner.
It is a gift of the gods to man, which, as I conceive, they
sent down by some Prometheus, in a blaze of light; and
* T. ii. p. 16, c, d. ed. Bekker, 1 v. p. 437-
PLATO. 1 2 5
the ancients, more clear-sighted than we, and less re­
moved from the gods, handed down this traditionary
doctrine: that whatever is said to be, comes of One and
of Many, and comprehends in itself the Finite and the
Infinite in coalition (being One Kind, and consisting of
Infinite Individuals). And this being the state of things,
we must, in each case, endeavour to seize the One Idea
(the idea of the Kind) as the chief point; for we shall
find that it is there. And when we have seized this
one thing, we may then consider how it comprehends in
itself two, or three, or any other number; and, again,
examine each of these ramifications separately; till at
last we perceive, not only that One is at the same time
One and Many, but also how many. And when we have
thus filled up the interval between the Infinite and the
One, we may consider that we have done with each one.
The gods then, as I have said, taught us by tradition
thus to contemplate, and to learn, and to teach one
another. But the philosophers of the present day seize
upon the One, at hazard, too soon or too late, and then
immediately snatch at the Infinite; but the intermediate
steps escape them, by which the subject is subdivided, so
that it can be the subject of logical exposition and dis­
cussion.”
It would seem that what the author here describes
as the most perfect form of exposition, is that which
refers each object to its place in a classification contain­
ing a complete series of subordinations, and which gives
a definition of each class. We have repeatedly remarked
that, in sciences of classification, each new definition
which gives a tenable and distinct separation of classes
is an important advance in our knowledge; but that
such definitions are rather the last than the first step in
each advance. In the progress of real knowledge, these
definitions are always the results of a laborious study of
1 2 6 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
individual cases, and are never arrived at by a pure effort
of thought, which is what Plato appears to have ima­
gined as the true mode of philosophizing. And still less
do the advances of other sciences consist in seizing at
once upon the highest generality, and filling in after­
wards all the intermediate steps between that and the
special instances. On the contrary, as we have seen,
the ascents from particular to general are all succes­
sive; and each step of this ascent requires time, and
labour, and a patient examination of actual facts and
objects.
It would, of course, be absurd to blame Plato for
having inadequate views of the nature of progressive
knowledge, at the time when knowledge could hardly
be said to have begun its progress. But we already find
in his speculations, as appears in the passages just
quoted from his writings, several points brought into
view which will require our continued attention as we
proceed. In overlooking the necessity of a gradual and
successive advance from the less general to the more
general truths, Plato shared in a dimness of vision which
prevailed among philosophers to the time of Francis
Bacon. In thinking too slightly of the study of actual
nature, he manifested a bias from which the human
intellect freed itself in the vigorous struggles which ter­
minated the dark ages. In pointing out that all know­
ledge implies a unity of what we observe as manifold,
which unity is given by the mind, Plato taught a lesson
which has of late been too obscurely acknowledged, the
recoil by which men repaired their long neglect of facts
having carried them for a while so far as to think that
facts were the whole of our knowledge. And in ana­
lyzing this principle of Unity, by which we thus connect
sensible things, into various Ideas, such as Number,
Magnitude, Position, Motion, he made a highly impor-
PLATO. 1 27
tant step, which it has been the business of philosophers
in succeeding times to complete and to follow out.
But the efficacy of Plato’s speculations in their bear­
ing upon physical science, and upon theory in general,
was much weakened by the confusion of practical with
theoretical knowledge, which arose from the ethical
propensities of the Socratic school. In the Platonic
Dialogues, Art and Science are constantly spoken of
indiscriminately. The skill possessed by the Painter,
the Architect, the Shoemaker, is considered as a just
example of human science, no less than the knowledge
which the geometer or the astronomer possesses of the
theoretical truths with which he is conversant. Not
only so; but traditionary and mythological tales, mysti­
cal imaginations and fantastical etymologies, are mixed
up, as no less choice ingredients, with the most acute
logical analyses, and the most exact conduct of meta­
physical controversies. There is no distinction made
between the knowledge possessed by the theoretical psy­
chologist and the physician, the philosophical teacher of
morals and the legislator or the administrator of law.
This, indeed, is the less to be wondered at, since even in
our own time the same confusion is very commonly
made by persons not otherwise ignorant or uncultured.
On the other hand, we may remark finally, that
Plato's admiration of Ideas was not a barren imagina­
tion, even so far as regarded physical science. For, as
we have seen *, he had a very important share in the
introduction of the theory of epicycles, having been the
first to propose to astronomers in a distinct form, the
problem of which that theory was the solution; namely,
“to explain the celestial phenomena by the combination
of equable circular motions.” This demand of an ideal
hypothesis which should exactly express the phenomena
* Hist. Ivd. Sci., B. in. c. ii.
1 28 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
(as well as they could then be observed), and from which,
by the interposition of suitable steps, all special cases
might be deduced, falls in well with those views respect­
ing the proper mode of seeking knowledge which we
have quoted from the Philebm. And the Idea which
could thus represent and replace all the particular Facts,
being not only sought but found, we may readily suppose
that the philosopher was, by this event, strongly con­
firmed in his persuasion that such an Idea was indeed
what the inquirer ought to seek. In this conviction all
his genuine followers up to modern times have parti­
cipated ; and thus, though they have avoided the errour
of those who hold that facts alone are valuable as the
elements of our knowledge, they have frequently run
into the opposite errour of too much despising and neg­
lecting facts, and of thinking that the business of the
inquirer after truth was only a profound and constant
contemplation of the conceptions of his own mind. But
of this hereafter.
C h a p t e r III.
A R I S T O T L E .
The views of Aristotle with regard to the foundations
of human knowledge are very different from those of his
tutor Plato, and are even by himself put in opposition to
them. He dissents altogether from the Platonic doctrine
that Ideas are the true materials of our knowledge; and
after giving, respecting the origin of this doctrine, the
account which we quoted in the last chapter, he goes on
to reason against it. “ Thus,” he says*, “they devised
Ideas of all things which are spoken of as universals:
* Melaph. x ii. 4.
ARISTOTLE. 1 29
much as if any one having to count a number of objects,
should think that he could not do it while they were
few, and should expect to count them by making them
more numerous. For the kinds of things are almost
more numerous than the special sensible objects, by seek­
ing the causes of which they were led to their Ideas.”
He then goes on to urge several other reasons against
the assumption of Ideas and the use of them in philoso­
phical researches.
Aristotle himself establishes his doctrines by trains
of reasoning. But reasoning must proceed from certain
First Principles ; and the question then arises, Whence
are these First Principles obtained ? To this he replies,
that they are the result of and he even
employs the same technical expression by which we at
this day describe the process of collecting these prin­
ciples from observed facts;—that they are obtained by
Induction. I have already quoted passages in which this
statement is made*. “ The way of reasoning,” he saysf,
“is the same in philosophy, and in any art or science:
we must collect the facts (ra and the things
to which the facts happen, and must have as large a sup­
ply of these as possible, and then we must examine them
according to the terms of our syllogisms.” . . . “There
are peculiar principles in each science ; and in each case
these principles must be obtained from experience. Thus
astronomical observation supplies the principles of astro­
nomical science. For the phenomena being rightly
taken, the demonstrations of astronomy were discovered ;
and the same is the case with any other Art or Science.
So that if the facts in each case be taken, it is our busi­
ness to construct the demonstrations. For if in our
natural history (« a r a t *)*» t
a
r
o
pw
e have omitted n
of the facts and properties which belong to the subject,
• H
u
t.In
d
. Sci., B. i. o. ¡it. sect. 2. + Prior., i. 30.
VOL. II. W. P. K
130 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
we shall learn what we can demonstrate and what we
cannot.” And, again*, “ It is manifest that if any sen­
sation be wanting, there must be some knowledge want­
ing, which we are thus prevented from having. For we
acquire knowledge either bpInduct
Demonstration : and Demonstration is from universals,
but Induction from particulars. It is impossible to have
universal theoretical propositions except by Induction :
and we cannot make inductions without having sen­
sation ; for sensation has to do with particulars.”
It is easy to show that Aristotle uses the term Induc­
tion, as we use it, to express the process of collecting a
general proposition from particular cases in which it is
exemplified. Thus in a passage which we have already
quotedf, he says, “ Induction, and Syllogism from Induc­
tion, is when we attribute one extreme term to the middle
by means of the other.” The import of this technical
phraseology will further appear by the example which
he gives: “ We find that several animals which are defi­
cient in bile are longlived, as man, the horse, the mule ;
hence we infer that all animals which are deficient in
bile are longlived.”
We may observe, however, that both Aristotle’s
notion of induction, and many other parts of his philoso­
phy, are obscure and imperfect, in consequence of his
refusing to contemplate ideas as something distinct from
sensation. It thus happens that he always assumes the
ideas which enter into his proposition as ; and
considers it as the philosopher’s business to determine
whether such propositions are true or not : whereas the
most important feature in induction is, as we have said,
the introduction of a new idea, and not its employment
when once introduced. That the mind in this manner
* Analyt.Post., i. 18.
t Anal. P
r
i
., II, 23, ti/c
AHISTOTLE. 131
gives unity to that which is manifold,—that we are thus
led to speculative principles which have an evidence
higher than any others,—and that a peculiar sagacity in
some men seizes upon the conceptions by which the facts
may be bound into true propositions,—are doctrines
which form no essential part of the philosophy of the
Stagirite, although such views are sometimes recognized,
more or less clearly, in his expressions. Thus he says*,
"There can be no knowledge when the sensation does
not continue in the mind. For this purpose, it is neces­
sary both to perceive, and to have some unity in the
mind; ( aiaQarofteroiv e%eir "EN T1 t >
7 '/'I'X fi) and many
such perceptions having taken place, some difference is
then perceived: and from the remembrance of these
arises Reason. Thus from Sensation comes Memory,
and from Memory of the same thing often repeated
comes Experience: for many acts of Memory make up
one Experience. And from Experience, or from any
Universal Notion which takes a permanent place in the
mind,—from the unity in the manifold, the same some
one thing being found in many facts,—springs the first
principle of Art and of Science; of Art, if it be employed
about production; of Science, if about existence.”
I will add to this, Aristotle’s notice of Sagacity ;
since, although little or no further reference is made to
this quality in his philosophy, the passage fixes our
attention upon an important step in the formation of
knowledge. “ Sagacity,” (ayfivoia) he says+, “ is a hitting
by guess ( e i t
a
r
o
y
i
at
o) upon the middle term (the con­
ception common to two cases) in an inappreciable time.
As for example, if any one seeing that the bright side of
the moon is always towards the sun, suddenly perceives
why this is; namely, because the moon shines by the
light of the sun:—or if he sees a person talking with a
* Anal. Po.t/., it. 19. + 1b.y i. .S4.
K 2
1 3 2 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
rich man, he guesses that he is borrowing money;—or
conjectures that two persons are friends, because they
are enemies of the same person.”— To consider only the
first of these examples;—the conception here introduced,
that of a body shining by the light which another casts
upon it, is not contained in the observed facts, but intro­
duced by the mind. It is, in short, that conception
which, in the act of induction, the mind superadds to
the phenomena as they are presented by the senses:
and to invent such appropriate conceptions, such “ eusto-
chies,” is, indeed, the precise office of inductive sagacity.
At the end of this work (the Later Analytics) Aris­
totle ascribes our knowledge of principles to Intellect,
(*o?s) or, as it appears necessary to translate the word,
Intuition*. “ Since, of our intellectual habits by which
we aim at truth, some are always true, but some admit
of being false, as Opinion and Reasoning, but Science
and Intuition are always true; and since there is nothing
which is more certain than Science except Intuition;
and since Principles are better known to us than the
Deductions from them; and since all Science is con­
nected by reasoning, we cannot have Science respecting
Principles. Considering this then, and that the begin­
ning of Demonstration cannot be Demonstration, nor
the beginning of Science, Science; and since, as we have
said, there is no other kind of truth, Intuition must be
the beginning of Science.”
What is here said, is, no doubt, in accordance with
the doctrines which we have endeavoured to establish
respecting the nature of Science, if by this Intuition we
understand that contemplation of certain Fundamental
Ideas, which is the basis of all rigorous knowledge. But
notwithstanding this apparent approximation, Aristotle
was far from having an habitual and practical possession
*Anal. Post., n. 19.
ARISTOTLE. 133
of the principles which he thus touches upon. He did
not, in reality, construct his philosophy by giving Unity
to that which was manifold, or by seeking in Intuition
principles which might be the basis of Demonstration;
nor did he collect, in each subject, fundamental proposi­
tions by an induction of particulars. He rather endea­
voured to divide than to unite; he employed himself,
not in combining facts, but in analyzing notions; and
the criterion to which he referred his analysis was, not
the facts of our experience, but our habits of language.
Thus his opinions rested, not upon sound' inductions,
gathered in each case from the phenomena by means of
appropriate Ideas; but upon the loose and vague generali­
zations which are implied in the common use of speech.
Yet Aristotle was so far consistent with his own
doctrine of the derivation of knowledge from experience,
that he made in almost every province of human know­
ledge, a vast collection of such special facts as the expe­
rience of his time supplied. These collections are almost
unrivalled, even to the present day, especially in Natural
History; in other departments, when to the facts we
must add the right Inductive Idea, in order to obtain
truth, we find little of value in the Aristotelic works.
But in those parts which refer to Natural History, we
find not only an immense and varied collection of facts
and observations, but a sagacity and acuteness in classifi­
cation which it is impossible not to admire. This indeed
appears to have been the most eminent faculty in Aris­
totle’s mind.
The influence of Aristotle in succeeding ages will
come under our notice shortly.
1 3 4 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
Chapter IV.
T H E L A T E R GREEKS.
Thus while Plato was disposed to seek the essence of
our knowledge in Ideas alone, Aristotle, slighting this
source of truth, looked to Experience as the beginning
of Science; and he attempted to obtain, by division and
deduction, all that Experience did not immediately sup­
ply. And thus, with these two great names, began that
struggle of opposite opinions which has ever since that
time agitated the speculative world, as men have urged
the claims of Ideas or of Experience to our respect,
and as alternately each of these elements of knowledge
has been elevated above its due place, while the other
has been unduly depressed. We shall see the successive
turns of this balanced struggle in the remaining portions
of this review.
But we may observe that practically the influence of
Plato predominated rather than that of Aristotle, in the
remaining part of the history of ancient philosophy. It
was, indeed, an habitual subject of dispute among men
of letters, whether the sources of true knowledge are to
be found in the Senses or in the Mind; the Epicureans
taking one side of this alternative, and the Academics
another, while the Stoics in a certain manner included
both elements in their view. But none of these sects
showed their persuasion that the materials of knowledge
were to be found in the domain of Sense, by seeking
them there. No one appears to have thought of follow­
ing the example of Aristotle, and gathering together a
store of observed facts. We may except, perhaps, asser­
tions belonging to some provinces of Natural History,
which were collected by various writers: but in these,
the mixed character of the statements, the want of dis-
THE LATER GREEKS. 135
crimination in the estimate of evidence, the credulity
and love of the marvellous which the authors for the
roost part displayed, showed that instead of improving
upon the example of Aristotle, they were wandering
further and further from the path of real knowledge.
And while they thus collected, with so little judgment,
such statements as offered themselves, it hardly appears
to have occurred to any one to enlarge the stores of
observation by the aid of experiment; and to learn what
the laws of nature were, by trying what were their
results in particular cases. They used no instruments
for obtaining an insight into the constitution of the uni­
verse, except logical distinctions and discussions; and
proceeded as if the phenomena familiar to their prede­
cessors must contain all that was needed as a basis for
natural philosophy. By thus contenting themselves
with the facts which the earlier philosophers had con­
templated, they were led also to confine themselves to
the ideas which those philosophers had put forth. For
all the most remarkable alternatives of hypothesis, so far
as they could be constructed with a slight and common
knowledge of phenomena, had been promulgated by the
acute and profound thinkers who gave the first impulse
to philosophy: and it was not given to man to add much
to the original inventions of their minds till he had
undergone anew a long discipline of observation, and of
thought employed upon observation. Thus the later
authors of the Greek Schools became little better than
commentators on the earlier; and the common places
with which the different schools carried on their debates,
—the constantly recurring argument, with its known
attendant answer,—the distinctions drawn finer and finer
and leading to nothing,—render the speculations of those
times a scholastic philosophy, in the same sense in which
we employ the term when we speak of the labours of
136 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
the middle ages. It will be understood that I now refer
to that which is here my subject, the opinions concern­
ing our knowledge of nature, and the methods in use
for the purpose of obtaining such knowledge. Whether
the moral speculations of the ancient world were of the
same stationary kind, going their round in a limited
circle, like their metaphysics and physics, must be con­
sidered on some other occasion.
As a specimen of the later Greek reasonings on phy­
sical philosophy, I may take a passage from Galen’s Com­
mentary on the Treatise of Ilippocrates, On Elements.
“ What, then,” he asks*, “ is the method of discovering
these Elements ? To me it seems there can be no other
than that which was introduced by Hippocrates. For we
must reason first, considering if an Element be a thing
which is one, according to its idea; (ev n tJv ¡Seau;) and
next, if many and various and dissimilar, how many, and
of what kind they are, and how related by their associa­
tion. Now that the First Element is not one only, com­
prizing both our bodies and other things, Hippocrates
shows. For if man were one Element only, he could not
fall sick; for there would be nothing which could derange
his health, if he were of one Element only.” We have
seen, in the History qf Science, that Galen is one of the
greatest names in ancient Physiology: but when he
makes the attempt to pass at one step from the most
familiar facts to the ultimate constitution of the universe,
it is not wonderful that his reasonings are of no real
value or import.
Before we quit the ancients we may observe some
peculiarities in the Roman disciples of the Greek philo­
sophy, which may be worthy our notice.
* Lib. i. c. ii.
THE ROMANS. 137
Chapter V.
T H E R O M A N S .
The Romans had no philosophy but that which they
borrowed from the Greeks; and what they thus received,
they hardly made entirely their own. The vast and pro­
found question of which we have been speaking, the
relation between Existence and our Knowledge of what
exists, they never appear to have fathomed, even so far
as to discern how wide and deep it is. In the develope-
ment of the ideas by which nature is to be understood,
they went no further than their Greek masters had gone,
nor indeed was more to be looked for. And in the
practical habit of accumulating observed facts as mate­
rials for knowledge, they were much less discriminating
and more credulous than their Greek predecessors. The
descent from Aristotle to Pliny, in the judiciousness of
the authors and the value of their collections of facts,
is immense.
Since the Romans were thus servile followers of their
Greek teachers, and little acquainted with any example
of new truths collected from the world around them, it
was not to be expected that they could have any just
conception of that long and magnificent ascent from one
set of truths to others of higher order and wider compass,
which the history of science began to exhibit when the
human mind recovered its progressive habits. Yet some
dim presentiment of the splendid career thus destined for
the intellect of man appears from time to time to have
arisen in their minds. Perhaps the circumstance which
most powerfully contributed to suggest this vision, was
the vast intellectual progress which they were themselves
conscious of having made, through the introduction of
the Greek philosophy; and to this may be added, per-
1 38 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
haps, some other features of national character. Their
temper was too stubborn to acquiesce in the absolute
authority of the Greek philosophy, although their minds
were not inventive enough to establish a rival by its side.
And the wonderful progress of their political power had
given them a hope in the progress of man which the
Greeks never possessed. The Roman, as he believed the
fortune of his State to be destined for eternity, believed
also in the immortal destiny and endless advance of that
Intellectual Republic of which he had been admitted a
denizen.
It is easy to find examples of such feelings as I have
endeavoured to describe. The enthusiasm with which
Lucretius and Virgil speak of physical knowledge, mani­
festly arises in a great measure from the delight which
they had felt in becoming acquainted with the Greek
theories.
Me vero primum dulces ante omnia must«
Quarum sacra fero ingenti perculaus amore,
Accipiant, coelique vias et sidera monstrent,
Defectus solis varios, Lunaeque labores !
Felix qui potuit rerum cognoscerc causas!
Ovid* expresses a similar feeling.
Felices animos quibus ha?c cognosce™ primis
Inque domos superas scandere cura fu it! . . «
Admovere oculis distantia sidera nostris
vEtheraque ingenio supposuere suo.
Sic petitur coelum : non ut ferat Osaam Olym pus
Summaque Peliacus sidera tanget apex.
And from the whole tenour of these and similar pas­
sages, it is evident that the intellectual pleasure which
arises from our first introduction to a beautiful physical
theory had a main share in producing this enthusiasm
at the contemplation of the victories of science; although
undoubtedly the moral philosophy, which was never sepa­
* L. r., Fast.
THE ROMANS. 1 39
rated from the natural philosophy, and the triumph over
superstitious fears which a knowledge of nature was
supposed to furnish, added warmth to the feeling of
exultation.
We may trace a similar impression in the ardent
expressions which Pliny* makes use of in speaking of
the early astronomers, and which we have quoted in
the History. “ Great men! elevated above the common
standard of human nature, by discovering the laws which
celestial occurrences obey, and by freeing the wretched
mind of man from the fears which eclipses inspired.”
This exulting contemplation of what science had done,
naturally led the mind to an anticipation of further
achievements still to be performed. Expressions of this
feeling occur in Seneca, and are of the most remarkable
kind, as the following example will showf.
“ Why do we wonder that comets, so rare a pheno­
mena, have not yet had their laws assigned ?—that we
should know so little of their beginning and their end,
when their recurrence is at wide intervals? It is not
yet fifteen hundred years since Greece,
Stellis numeros et nomina fecit,
reckoned the stars, and gave them names. There are
still many nations which are acquainted with the heavens
by sight only; which do not yet know why the moon dis­
appears, why she is eclipsed. It is but lately that among
us philosophy has reduced these matters to a certainty.
The day shall come when the course of time and the
labour of a maturer age shall bring to light what is yet
concealed. One generation, even if it devoted itself to
the skies, is not enough for researches so extensive. How
then can it be so, when we divide this scanty allowance
of years into no equal shares between our studies and
our vices? These things then must be explained by a
* Hist. Nat. i. 75. t Qucest. N a t vn, 25.
long succession of inquiries. We have but just begun to
know how arise the morning and evening appearances,
the stations, the progressions, and the rétrogradations of
the fixed stars which put themselves in our way ;—which
appearing perpetually in another and another place com­
pel us to be curious. Some one will hereafter demon­
strate in what region the comets wander ; why they move
so far asunder from the rest; of what size and nature
they are. Let us be content with what we have dis­
covered: let posterity contribute its share to truth.”
Again he adds* in the same strain. “ Let us not
wonder that what lies so deep is brought out so slowly.
IIow many animals have become known for the first time
in this age' And the members of future generations
shall know many of which we are ignorant. Many
things are reserved for ages to come, when our memory
shall have passed away. The world would be a small
thing indeed, if it did not contain matter of inquiry fo r
all the world. Eleusis reserves something for the second
visit of the worshipper. So too Nature does not at once
disclose all her mysteries. We think ourselves initiated ;
we are but in the vestibule. The arcana are not thrown
open without distinction and without reserve. This age
will see some things ; that which comes after us, others.”
While we admire the happy coincidence of these
conjectures with the soundest views which the history of
science teaches us, we must not forget that they are
merely conjectures, suggested by very vague impressions,
and associated with very scanty conceptions of the laws
of nature. Seneca’s Natural Questions, from which the
above extract is taken, contains a series of dissertations
on various subjects of Natural Philosophy ; as Meteors,
Rainbows, Lightning, Springs, Rivers, Snow, Hail, Rain,
Wind, Earthquakes and Comets. In the whole of these.
* Q uœ st. N a t ., v ii. 30, 31.
140 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
THE ROMANS. 141
dissertations, the statements are loose, and the explana­
tions of little or no value. Perhaps it may be worth our
while to notice a case in which he refers to an observa­
tion of his own, although his conclusion from it be erro­
neous. He is arguing* against the opinion that Springs
arise from the water which falls in rain. “ In the first
place,” he says, “ I, a very diligent digger in my vineyard,
affirm that no rain is so heavy as to moisten the earth to
the depth of more than ten feet. All the moisture is
consumed in this outer crust, and descends not to the
lower part.” We have here something of the nature of
an experiment; and indeed, as we may readily conceive,
the instinct which impels man to seek truth by experi­
ment can never be altogether extinguished. Seneca’s
experiment was deprived of its value by the indistinct­
ness of his ideas, which led him to rest in the crude con­
ception of the water being “consumed” in the superficial
crust of the earth.
It is unnecessary to pursue further the reasonings of
the Romans on such subjects, and we now proceed to the
ages which succeeded the fall of their empire.
C h a p t e r VI.
T H E SCHOOLMEN OF TH E M IDD LE AGES.
I n the History of the Sciences I have devoted a Book
to the state of Science in the middle ages, and have
endeavoured to analyze the intellectual defects of that
period. Among the characteristic features of the human
mind during those times, I have noticed Indistinctness of
Ideas, a Commentatorial Spirit, Mysticism, and Dogma­
tism. The account there given of this portion of the
* Qucest. Nat., hi. 7-
142 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
history of man belongs, in reality, rather to the present
work than to the History of Progressive Science. For, as
we have there remarked, theoretical Science was, during
the period of which we speak, almost entirely stationary;
and the investigation of the causes of such a state of
things may be considered as a part of that review, in
which we are now engaged, of the vicissitudes of man’s
acquaintance with the methods of discovery. But when
we offered to the world a history of science, to leave so
large a chasm unexplained, would have made the series
of events seem defective and broken; and the survey of
the Middle Ages was therefore inserted. I would beg
to refer to that portion of the former work the reader
who wishes for information in addition to what is here
given.
The Indistinctness of Ideas and the Commentatorial
Disposition of those ages have already been here brought
under our notice. Viewed with reference to the oppo­
sition between Experience and Ideas, on which point,
as we have said, the succession of opinions in a great
measure turns, it is clear that the commentatorial
method belongs to the ideal side of the question: for
the commentator seeks for such knowledge as he values,
by analyzing and illustrating what his author has said;
and, content with this material of speculation, does not
desire to add to it new stores of experience and obser­
vation. And with regard to the two other features in the
character which we gave to those ages, we may observe
that Dogmatism demands for philosophical theories the
submission of mind, due to those revealed religious doc­
trines which are to guide our conduct and direct our
hopes: while Mysticism elevates ideas into realities, and
offers them to us as the objects of our religious regard.
Thus the Mysticism of the middle ages and their Dogma­
tism alike arose from not discriminating the offices of
SCIIOOLMKN OF THE MIDDLE AGES. 1 4 3
theoretical and practical philosophy. Mysticism claimed
for ideas the dignity and reality of principles of moral
action and religious hope : Dogmatism imposed theo­
retical opinions respecting speculative points with the
imperative tone of rules of conduct and faith.
If, however, the opposite claims of theory and prac­
tice interfered with the progress of science by the con­
fusion they thus occasioned, they did so far more by
drawing men away altogether from mere physical specu­
lations. The Christian religion, with its precepts, its
hopes, and its promises, became the leading subject of
men’s thoughts ;and the great active truths thus revealed,
and the duties thus enjoined, made all inquiries of mere
curiosity appear frivolous and unworthy of man. The
Fathers of the Church sometimes philosophized ill ; but
far more commonly they were too intent upon the great
lessons which they had to teach, respecting man’s situa­
tion in the eyes of his Heavenly Master, to philosophize
at all respecting things remote from the business of life
and of no importance in man’s spiritual concerns.
Yet man has his intellectual as well as his spiritual
wants. He has faculties which demand systems and
reasons, as well as precepts and promises. The Christian
doctor, who knew so much more than the heathen philo­
sopher respecting the Creator and Governor of the uni­
verse, was not long content to know or to teach less, re­
specting the universe itself. While it was still maintained
that Theology was the only really important study, Theo­
logy was so extended and so fashioned as to include all
other knowledge : and after no long time, the Fathers
of the Church themselves became the authors of systems
of universal knowledge.
But when this happened, the commentatorial spirit
was still in its full vigour. The learned Christians could
not, any more than the later Greeks or the Romans,
devise, by the mere force of their own invention, new
systems, full, comprehensive, and connected, like those of
the heroic age of philosophy. The same mental tenden­
cies which led men to look for speculative coherence and
completeness in the view of the universe, led them also
to admire and dwell upon the splendid and acute spe­
culations of the Greeks. They were content to find, in
these immortal works, the answers to the questions which
their curiosity prompted; and to seek what further satis­
faction they might require, in analyzing and unfolding
the doctrines promulgated by those great masters of
knowledge. Thus the Christian doctors became, as to
general philosophy, commentators upon the ancient
Greek teachers.
Among these, they selected Aristotle as their peculiar
object of admiration and study. The vast store, both of.
opinions and facts, which his works contain, bis acute
distinctions, his cogent reasons in some portions of his
speculations, his symmetrical systems in almost all, natu­
rally commended him to the minds of subtle and curious
men. We may add that Plato, who taught men to con­
template Ideas separate from Things, was not so well
fitted for general acceptance as Aristotle, who rejected
this separation. For although the due apprehension of
this opposition of ideas and sensations is a necessary step
in the progress of true philosophy, it requires a clearer
view and a more balanced mind than the common herd
of students possess; and Aristotle, who evaded the neces­
sary perplexities in which this antithesis involves us,
appeared, to the temper of those times, the easier and
the plainer guide of the two.
The Doctors of the middle ages having thus adopted
Aristotle as their master in philosophy, we shall not be
surprized to find them declaring, after him, that experience
is the source of our knowledge of the visible world. But
144 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
SCHOOLMEN OF THE MIDDLE AGES. 1 4 5
though, like the Greeks, they thus talked of experiment,
like the Greeks, they showed little disposition to discover
the laws of nature by observation of facts. This barren
and formal recognition of experience or sensation as one
source of knowledge, not being illustrated by a practical
study of nature, and by real theoretical truths obtained
by such a study, remained ever vague, wavering, and
empty. Such a mere acknowledgement cannot, in any
times, ancient or modern, be considered as indicating a
just apprehension of the true basis and nature ofscience.
In imperfectly perceiving how, and how far, expe­
rience is the source of our knowledge of the external
world, the teachers of the middle ages were in the dark;
but so, on this subject, have been almost all the writers of
all ages, with the exception of those who in recent times
have had their minds enlightened by contemplating phi­
losophically the modern progress ofscience. The opinions
of the doctors of the middle ages on such subjects gene­
rally had those of Aristotle for their basis; but the sub­
ject was often still further analyzed and systematized,
with an acute and methodical skill hardly inferior to that
of Aristotle himself.
The Stagirite, in the beginning of his Physics, had
made the following remarks. “ In all bodies of doctrine
which involve principles, causes, or elements, Science
and Knowledge arise from the knowledge of these; (for
we then consider ourselves to knwv respecting any
subject, when we know its first cause, its first prin­
ciples, its ultimate elements.) It is evident, therefore,
that in seeking a knowledge of nature, we must first
know what are its principles. But the course of our
knowledge is, from the things which are better known
and more manifest to us, to the things which are more
certain and evident in nature. For those things which
are most evident in truth, are not most evident to us.
VOL. II. w . p. L
14G REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
[And consequently we must advance from things ob­
scure in nature, but manifest to us, towards the things
which are really in nature more clear and certain.] The
things which are first obvious and apparent to us are
complex; and from these we obtain, by analysis, prin­
ciples and elements. We must proceed from universals
to particulars. For the whole is better known to our
senses than the parts, and for the same reason, the uni­
versal better known than the particular. And thus
words signify things in a large and indiscriminate way,
which is afterwards analyzed by definition; as we see that
the children at first call all men , and all women
mother, but afterwards learn to distinguish.”
There are various assertions contained in this extract
which came to be considered as standard maxims, and
which occur constantly in the writers of the middle ages.
Such are, for instance, the maxim, “ Ver6 scire est per
causas s c ir e th e remark, that compounds are known to
us before their parts, and the illustration from the expres­
sions used by children. Of the mode in which this subject
was treated by the schoolmen, we may judge by looking
at passages of Thomas Aquinas which treat of the subject
of the human understanding. In the
the eighty-fifth Question is On the manner and oi'der of
understanding, which subject he considers in eight Arti­
cles ; and these must, even now, be looked upon as exhi­
biting many of the most important and interesting points
of the subject. They are, First, Whether our under­
standing understands by abstracting ideas ( from
appearances; Second, Whether intelligible species ab­
stracted from appearances are related to our understand­
ing as that which we understand, or that by which we
understand; Third, Whether our understanding does
naturally understand universals first; Fourth, Whether
our understanding can understand many things at once;
SCHOOLMEN OF THE MIDDLE AGES. 147
Fifth, Whether our understanding understands by com­
pounding and dividing; Sixth, Whether the understand­
ingcan err; Seventh, Whether one person can understand
the same thing better than another; Eighth, Whether
ourunderstanding understands the indivisible sooner than
the divisible. And in the discussion of the last point, for
example, reference is made to the passage of Aristotle
which we have already quoted. “ It may seem,” he says,
“that we understand the indivisible before the divisible;
for the Philosopher says that we understand and know
by knowing principles and elements; but indivisibles are
the principles and elements of divisible things. But to
this we may reply, that in our receiving of science, prin­
ciples and elements are not always first; for sometimes
from the sensible effects we go on to the knowledge of
intelligible principles and causes.” We see that both the
objection and the answer are drawn from Aristotle.
We find the same close imitation of Aristotle in
Albertus Magnus, who, like Aquinas, flourished in the
thirteenth century. Albertus, indeed, wrote treatises
corresponding to almost all those of the Stagirite, and
was called the Ape q f Aristotle.In the beginning of
Physics, he says, “Knowledge does not always begin from
that which is first according to the nature of things, but
from that, of which the knowledge is easiest. For the
human intellect, on account of its relation to the senses
(propter refiexionam quam habet ad sensum), collects
science from the senses; and thus it is easier for our
knowledge to begin from that which we can appre­
hend by sense, imagination, and intellect, than from
that which we apprehend by intellect alone.” We see
that he has somewhat systematized what he has borrowed.
This disposition to dwell upon and systematize the
leading doctrines of metaphysics assumed a more defi­
nite and permanent shape in the opposition of the
L 2
1 4 8 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
Realists and Nominalists. The opposition involved in
this controversy is, in fact, that fundamental antithesis
of Sense and Ideas about which philosophy has always
been engaged ; and of which we have marked the mani­
festation in Plato and Aristotle. The question, What
is the object of our thoughts when we reason concerning
the external world ?must occur to all speculative minds :
and the difficulties of the answr
er are manifest. We
must reply, either that our own Ideas, or that Sensible
Things, are the elements of our knowledge of nature.
And then the scruples again occur,—how we have any
general knowledge if our thoughts are fixed on particular
objects ; and, on the other hand,—how we can attain to
any trueknowledge of nature by contemplating ideas
which are not identical w
r
ith objects in nature. The two
opposite opinions maintained on this subject were, on the
one side,—that our general propositions refer to objects
which are r
e
a
l, though divested of the peculiarities
individuals ; and, on the other side,—that in such propo­
sitions, individuals are not represented by any reality, but
bound together by a name. These two views were held
by the Realists and Nominalists respectively : and thus
the Realist manifested the adherence to Ideas, and the
Nominalist the adherence to the impressions of Sense,
which have always existed as opposite yet correlative
tendencies in man.
The Realists were the prevailing sect in the Scholas­
tic times : for example, both Thomas Aquinas and Duns
Scotus, the Angelical and the Subtle Doctor, held this
opinion, although opposed to each other in many of their
leading doctrines on other subjects. And as the Nomi­
nalist, fixing his attention upon sensible objects, is obliged
to consider what is the principle of generalization, in
order that the possibility of any general proposition may
be conceivable ; so on the other hand, the Realist, begin-
SCHOOLMEN OF THE MIDDLE AGES. 1 4 9
ning with the contemplation of universal ideas, is com­
pelled to ask what is the principle qf individuation, in
order that he may comprehend the application of general
propositions in each particular instance. This inquiry
concerning the principle of individuation was accordingly
a problem which occupied all the leading minds among
the Schoolmen*. It will be apparent from what has
been said, that it is only one of the many forms of the
fundamental antithesis of the Ideas and the Senses,
which we have constantly before us in this review.
The recognition of the derivation of our knowledge,
in part at least, from Experience, though always loose
and incomplete, appears often to be independent of the
Peripatetic traditions. Thus Richard of St. Victor, a
writer o f contemplative theology in the twelfth century,
saysf, that “there are three sources of knowledge, experi­
ence, reason, faith. Some things we prove by experiment,
others we collect by reasoning, the certainty of others
we hold by believing. And with regard to temporal
matters, we obtain our knowledge by actual experience;
the other guides belong to divine knowledge.” Richard
also propounds a division of human knowledge which is
clearly not derived directly from the ancients, and which
shows that considerable attention must have been paid
to such speculations. He begins by laying down clearly
and broadly the distinction, which, as we have seen, is of
primary importance, between practicand theory.
tice, he says, includes seven mechanical arts; those of
the clothier, the armourer, the navigator, the hunter, the
physician, and the player. Theory is threefold, divine,
natural, doctrinal; and is thus divided into Theology,
Physics, and Mathematics. Mathematics, he adds, treats
* See the opinion of Aquinas, in Degerando, Hist Com. dcs Si/st.
iv. 499; of Duns Scotus, i6., iv. 523-
t Liber Excerptionurn, Lib. I. c. i.
1 5 0 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
of the invisible forms of visible things. We have seen
that by many profound thinkers this wordforms has been
selected as best fitted to describe those relations of things
which are the subject of mathematics. Again, Physics
discovers causes from their effects and effects from their
causes. It would not be easy at the present day to give
a better account of the object of physical science. But.
Richard of St. Victor makes this account still more
remarkably judicious, by the examples to which he
alludes; which are earthquakes, the tides, the virtues
of plants, the instincts of animals, the classification of
minerals, plants and reptiles.
Unde tremor terris, qua vi maria alta tumescant,
Herbarum vires, ánimos ¡rasque ferarum,
Omne genus fruticum, lapidmn quoque, reptiliumquc.
He further adds*, “ Physical science ascends from effects
to causes, and descends again from causes to effects.”
This declaration Francis Bacon himself might have
adopted. It is true, that Richard would probably have
been little able to produce any clear and definite instances
of knowledge, in which this ascent and descent were
exemplified; but still the statement, even considered as
a mere conjectural thought, contains a portion of that
sagacity and comprehensive power which we admire so
much in Bacon.
Richard of St. Victor, who lived in the twelfth cen­
tury, thus exhibits more vigour and independence of
speculative power than Thomas Aquinas, Albertus Mag­
nus, and Duns Scotus, in the thirteenth. In the interval,
about the end of the twelfth century, the writings of
Aristotle had become generally known in the West; and
had been elevated into the standard of philosophical
doctrine, by the divines mentioned above, who felt a
reverent sympathy with the systematizing and subtle
* Tr. Ex. Lib. I. c. vii.
SCHOOLMEN OF THE MIDDLE AGES. 151
spirit of the Stagirite as soon as it was made manifest to
them. These doctors, following the example of their
great forerunner, reduced every part of human know­
ledge to a systematic form; the systems which they thus
framed were presented to men’s minds as the only true
philosophy, and dissent from them was no longer con­
sidered to be blameless. It was an offence against reli­
gion as well as reason to reject the truth, and the truth
could be but one. In this manner arose that claim which
the Doctors of the Church put forth to control men’s
opinions upon all subjects, and which we have spoken of
in the History qf Science as the Dogmatism of the
Middle Ages. There is no difficulty in giving examples
of this characteristic. We may take for instance a
Statute of the University of Paris, occasioned by a Bull
of Pope John XXI., in which it is enacted, “ that no
Master or Bachelor of any faculty, shall presume to
read lectures upon any author in a private room, on
account of the many perils which may arise therefrom;
but shall read in public places, where all may resort, and
may faithfully report what is there taught; excepting
only books of Grammar and Logic, in which there can be
no presumption.” And certain errors of Brescain are
condemned in a Rescript* of the papal Legate Odo, with
the following expressions: “ Whereas, as we have been
informed, certain Logical professors treating of Theology
in their disputations, and Theologians treating of Logic,
contrary to the command of the law are not afraid to
mix and confound the lots of the Lord’s heritage; we
exhort and admonish your University, all and singular,
that they be content with the landmarks of the Sciences
and Faculties which our Fathers have fixed; and that
having due fear of the curse pronounced in the law
against him who reinoveth his neighbour’s landmark.
* TcnDcman, vm -10J.
1 5 2 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
you hold such sober wisdom according to the Apostles,
that ye may by no means incur the blame of innovation
or presumption.”
The account which, in the History of Science, I gave
of Dogmatism as a characteristic of the middle ages, has
been indignantly rejected by a very pleasing modem
writer, who has, with great feeling and great diligence,
brought into view the merits and beauties of those times,
termed by him Ages of Faith. He urges* that religious
authority was never claimed for physical science: and he
quotes from Thomas Aquinas, a passage in which the
author protests against the practice of confounding opi­
nions of philosophy with doctrines of faith. We might
quote in return the Rescript f of Stephen, bishop of
Paris, in which he declares that there can be but one
truth, and rejects the distinction of things being true
according to philosophy and not according to the Catho­
lic faith; and it might be added, that among the errours
condemned in this document are som,e of Thomas Aqui­
nas himself. We might further observe, that if no phy­
sical doctrines were condemned in the times of which
we now speak, this was because, on such subjects, no
new opinions were promulgated, and not because opinion
was free. As soon as new opinions, even on physical
subjects, attracted general notice, they were prohibited
by authority, as we see in the case of GalileoJ.
* Mores Catkolici, or Ages of Faith, vni p. 247-
t Tenneman, v iii. 460.
$ If there were any doubt on this subject, we might refer to the
writers who afterwards questioned the supremacy of Aristotle, and
who with one voice assert that an infallible authority had been claimed
for him. ThuB Laurentius Valla: “ Quo minus ferendi sunt recentes
Peripatetici, qui nullius sect® hominibus interdicunt libertate ab Aris­
totle dissentiendi, quasi sophoB hie, non philosophus." Pref. in Dial.
(Tenneman, ix. 29.) So Ludovicus Vives : “ Sunt ex philosophis et ex
theologis qui non solem quo Aristoteles pervenit extremum esse aiunt na-
SCHOOLMEN OF THE MIDDLE AGES. 153
But this disinclination to recognize philosophy as
independent of religion, and this disposition to find in
new theories, even in physical ones, something contrary
to religion or scripture, are, it would seem, very natural
tendencies of theologians; and it would be unjust to
assert that these propensities were confined to the periods
when the authority of papal Rome was highest; or that
the spirit which has in a great degree controlled and
removed such habits was introduced by the Reformation
of religion in the sixteenth century. We must trace to
other causes, the clear and general recognition of Phi­
losophy, as distinct from Theology, and independent of
her authority. In the earlier ages of the Church,
indeed, this separation had been acknowledged. St.
Augustin says, “ A Christian should beware how he
speaks on questions of natural philosophy, as if they
were doctrines of Holy Scripture; for an infidel who
should hear him deliver absurdities could not avoid
laughing. Thus the Christian would be confused, and
the infidel but little edified; for the infidel would con­
clude that our authors really entertained these extra­
vagant opinions, and therefore they would despise them,
to their own eternal ruin. Therefore the opinions of
philosophers should never be proposed as dogmas of
faith, or rejected as contrary to faith, when it is not cer­
tain that they are so.” These words are quoted with
turse, sed qua pervenit earn rectissimam esse omnium et certissimam in
natura viam.” (Tenneman, ix. 43.) We might urge too, the evasions
practised by philosophical Reformers, through fear of the dogmatism
to which they had to submit; for example, the protestation of Telesius
at the end of the Proem to his work, De Rerum Naiura : “ Nec tamen,
si quid eorum quae nobis poeita sunt, sacris literis, Catholicseve ccclesia?
decretis non cohaereat, tenendum id, quin penitus rejiciendum asseve­
ramus contendimusque. Neque enim Humana modo ralio quaevis, sed
*p*c etiam sensui illis posthabenduq et si illis non congruat, abnegandus
onrnino et ipse etiam est sensus."
approbation by Thomas Aquinas, and it is said*, arc
cited in the same manner in every encyclopedical work
of the middle ages. This warning of genuine wisdom
was afterwards rejected, as we have seen; and it is only
in modern times that its value has again been fully
recognized. And this improvement we must ascribe,
mainly, to the progress of physical science. For a great
body of undeniable truths on physical subjects being
accumulated, such as had no reference to nor connexion
with the truths of religion, and yet such as possessed a
strong interest for most men’s minds, it was impossible
longer to deny that there were wide provinces of know­
ledge which were not included in the dominions o f
Theology, and over which she had no authority. In the
fifteenth and sixteenth centuries, the fundamental doc­
trines of mechanics, hydrostatics, optics, magnetics, che­
mistry, were established and promulgated; and along
with them, a vast train of consequences, attractive to the
mind by the ideal relations which they exhibited, and
striking to the senses by the power which tney gave man
over nature. Here was a region in which philosophy
felt herself entitled and impelled to assert her inde­
pendence. From this region, there is a gradation o f
subjects in which philosophy advances more and more
towards the peculiar domain of religion; and at some
intermediate points there have been, and probably will
always be, conflicts respecting the boundary line of the
two fields of speculation. For the limit is vague and
obscure, and appears to fluctuate and shift with the pro­
gress of time and knowledge.
Our business at present is not with the whole extent
and limits of philosophy, but with the progress of phy­
sical science more particularly, and the methods by
* Agesnf Faith, vm . 247: to the author of which I am oblig«*!
for this quotation.
1 5 4 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
SCHOOLMEN OF THE MIDDLE AGES. 1 5 5
which it may be attained: and we are endeavouring to
trace historically the views which have prevailed respect­
ing such methods, at various periods of man’s intellectual
progress. Among the most conspicuous of the revolu­
tions which opinions on this subject have undergone, is
the transition from an implicit trust in the internal
powers of man’s mind to a professed dependence upon
external observation; and from an unbounded reverence
for the wisdom of the past, to a fervid expectation of
change and improvement. The origin and progress of
this disposition of mind;—the introduction of a state of
things in which men not only obtained a body of inde­
structible truths from experience, and increased it from
generation to generation, but professedly, and we may
say, ostentatiously, declared such to be the source of
their knowledge, and such their hopes of its destined
career;— the rise, in short, of Experimental Philosophy,
not only as a habit, but as a Philosophy of Experience,
is what we must now endeavour to exhibit.
C h a p t e r VII.
T H E INNOVATORS OF T H E M ID D LE AGES.
1. General Remarks.—I n the rise of Experimental
Philosophy, understanding the term in the way just now
stated, two features have already been alluded to : the
disposition to cast off the prevalent reverence for the
opinions and methods of preceding teachers with an
eager expectation of some vast advantage to be derived
from a change; and the belief that this improvement
must be sought by drawing our knowledge from external
observation rather than from mere intellectual efforts;
—the Insurrection against A, and the
to Expei'ience. These two movements were closely con­
nected; but they may easily be distinguished, and in
fact, persons were very prominent in the former part
of the task, who had no comprehension of the latter
principle, from which alone the change derives its value.
There were many Malcontents, who had not the temper,
talent or knowledge, which fitted them to be Reformers.
The authority which was questioned, in the struggles
of which we speak, was that of the Scholastic System,
the combination of Philosophy with Theology; of which
Aristotle, presented in the form and manner which the
Doctors of the Church had imposed upon him, is to be
considered the representative. When there was de­
manded of men a submission of the mind, such as this
system claimed, the natural love of freedom in man’s
bosom, and the speculative tendencies of his intellect,
rose in rebellion, from time to time, against the ruling
oppression. We find in all periods of the scholastic ages
examples of this disposition of man to resist overstrained
authority; the tendency being mostly, however, com­
bined with a want of solid thought, and showing itself
in extravagant pretensions and fantastical systems put
forwards by the insurgents. We have pointed out one
such opponent* of the established systems, even among
the Arabian schoolmen, a more servile race than ever the
Europeans were. We may here notice more especially
an extraordinary character who appeared in the thir­
teenth century, and who may be considered as belonging
to the Prelude of the Reform in Philosophy, although
he had no share in the Reform itself.
2. Raymond Lully.—Raymond Lully is perhaps tra­
ditionally best known as an Alchemist, of which art he
appears to have been a cultivator. But this was onlv
one of the many impulses of a spirit ardently thirsty
* Algazcl. See Hist. Tnd. Set., B. iv. c. i.
1 5 6 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
INNOVATORS OF THE MIDDLE AGES. 157
of knowledge and novelty. He had*, in his youth,
been a man of pleasure, but was driven by a sudden
shock of feeling to resolve on a complete change of life.
He plunged into solitude, endeavoured to still the re­
morse of his conscience by prayer and penance, and soon
had his soul possessed by visions which he conceived
were vouchsafed him. In the feeling of religious enthu­
siasm thus excited, he resolved to devote his life to the
diffusion of Christian truth among Heathens and Maho-
medans. For this purpose, at the age of thirty he betook
himself to the study of Grammar, and of the Arabic
language. He breathed earnest supplications for an
illumination from above; and these were answered by
his receiving from heaven, as his admirers declare, his
A rs M
a
g
n
a
, by which he was able without labour or
effort to learn and apply all knowledge. The real state
of the case is, that he put himself in opposition to the
established systems, and propounded a New Art, from
which he promised the most wonderful results; but that
his Art really is merely a mode of combining ideal con­
ceptions without any reference to real sources of know­
ledge, or any possibility of real advantage. In a Treatise
addressed, in A. d . 1310, to King Philip of France,
entitled Liber Lamentationis Duodecim Principiorum
Philosophies contra A
v
e
r
r
o
i
s
t
a
s
, Lully introduces Phi­
losophy, accompanied by her twelve Principles, (Matter,
Form, Generation, &c.) uttering loud complaints against
the prevailing system of doctrine; and represents her
as presenting to the king a petition that she may be
upheld and restored by her favourite, the Author. His
Tabula Generalis ad omnes Scientias applicabilis was
begun the 15th September, 1292, in the Harbour of
Tunis, and finished in 1293, at Naples. In order to
frame an Art of thus tabulating all existing sciences,
* Tenneman, vm . 830.
1 58 KEVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
and indeed all possible knowledge, he divides into vari­
ous classes the conceptions with which he has to deal.
The first class contains nine Absolute Conceptions:
Goodness, Greatness, Duration, Power, Wisdom, Will,
Virtue, Truth, Majesty. The second class has nine Rela­
tive C o n c e p t i o n s :Difference, Identity, Contrar
ginning, Middle, End, Majority, Equality, Minority. The
third class contains nine Questions: Whether? What?
Whence? Why? How great? How circumstanced?
When? Where? and How? The fourth class contains
the nine Most General Subjects: God, Angel, Heaven,
Man, Imaginativum, Sensitivum, Vegetativum, Eleinen-
tativum, Instrumentativum. Then come nine Præ-
dicaments, nine Moral Qualities, and so on. These
conceptions are arranged in the compartments of certaiu
concentric moveable circles, and give various combina­
tions by means of triangles and other figures, and thus
propositions are constructed.
It must be clear at once, that real knowledge, which
is the union of facts and ideas, can never result from
this machinery for shifting about, joining and disjoining,
empty conceptions. This, and all similar schemes, go
upon the supposition that the logical combinations of
notions do of themselves compose knowledge ; and that
really existing things may be arrived at by a successive
system of derivation from our most general ideas. It
is imagined that by distributing the nomenclature of
abstract ideas according to the place which they can
hold in our propositions, and by combining them accord­
ing to certain conditions, we may obtain formulae includ­
ing all possible truths, and thus fabricate a science in
which all sciences are contained. We thus obtain the
means of talking and writing upon all subjects, without
the trouble of thinking : the revolutions of the emblem­
atical figures are substituted for the operations of the
INNOVATORS OF TUE MIDDLE AGES. 1 59
mind. Both exertion of thought, and knowledge of
facts, become superfluous. And this reflection, adds au
intelligent author*, explains the enormous number of
books which Lully is said to have written; for he might
have written those even during his sleep, by the aid
of a moving power which should keep his machine in
motion. Having once devised this invention for manu­
facturing science, Lully varied it in a thousand ways, and
followed it into a variety of developements. Besides
Synoptical Tables, he employs Genealogical Trees, each of
which he dignifies with the name of the Tree of Science.
The only requisite for the application of his System was
a certain agreement in the numbers of the classes into
which different subjects were distributed; and as this
symmetry does not really exist in the operations of our
thoughts, some violence was done to the natural dis­
tinction and subordination of conceptions, in order to fit
them for the use of the System.
Thus Lully, while he professed to teach an Art
which was to shed new light upon every part of science,
was in fact employed in a pedantic and trifling repeti­
tion of known truths or truisms; and while he com­
plained of the errours of existing methods, he proposed
in their place one which was far more empty, barren,
and worthless, than the customary processes of human
thought. Yet his method is spoken off with some
praise by Leibnitz, who indeed rather delighted in the
region of ideas and words, than in the world of realities.
But Francis Bacon speaks far otherwise and more justly
on this subjectJ. “ It is not to be omitted that some
men, swollen with emptiness rather than knowledge,
have laboured to produce a certain Method, not deserv­
ing the name of a legitimate Method, since- it is rather
* Dcgerando, iv. 535. t Ojwra, y . 16.
t Works, vii. 296.
1 6 0 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
a method of imposture: which yet is doubtless highly
grateful to certain would-be philosophers. This method
scatters about certain little drops of science in such a
manner that a smatterer may make a perverse and osten­
tatious use of them with a certain show of learning.
Such was the Art of Lully, which consisted of nothing
but a mass and heap of the words of each science; with
the intention that he who can readily produce the words
of any science shall be supposed to know the science
itself. Such collections are like a rag shop, where you
find a patch of everything, but nothing which is of any
value.”
3. Roger B
a
c
o
n
.—We now come to a philosopher o
a very different character, who was impelled to declare
his dissent from the reigning philosophy by the abund­
ance of his knowledge, and by his clear apprehension of
the mode in which real knowledge had been acquired
and must be increased.
Roger Bacon was born in 1214, near Ilchester, in
Somersetshire, of an old family. In his youth he was a
student at Oxford, and made extraordinary progress in
all branches of learning. He then went to the Univer­
sity of Paris, as was at that time the custom of learned
Englishmen, and there received the degree of Doctor of
Theology. At the persuasion of Robert Grostete, bishop
of Lincoln, he entered the brotherhood of Franciscans
in Oxford, and gave himself up to study with extraor­
dinary fervour. He was termed by his brother monks
Doctoi' Mirabilis. We know from his own works, as
well as from the traditions concerning him, that he
possessed an intimate acquaintance with all the science
of his time which could be acquired from books; and
that he had made many remarkable advances by means
of his own experimental labours. He was acquainted
with Arabic, as well as with the other languages com-
INNOVATORS OF THE MIDDLE AGES. 161
mon in his time. In the title of his works, we find the
whole range of science and philosophy, Mathematics and
Mechanics, Optics, Astronomy, Geography, Chronology,
Chemistry, Magic, Music, Medicine, Grammar, Logic,
Metaphysics, Ethics, and Theology; and judging from
those which are published, these works are full of sound
and exact knowledge. He is, with good reason, sup­
posed to have discovered, or to have had some know­
ledge of, several of the most remarkable inventions
which were made generally known soon afterwards; as
gunpowder, lenses, burning specula, telescopes, clocks,
the correction of the calendar, and the explanation of
the rainbow.
Thus possessing, in the acquirements and habits of
his own mind, abundant examples of the nature of know­
ledge and of the process of invention, Roger Bacon felt
also a deep interest in the growth and progress of science,
a spirit of inquiry respecting the causes which produced
or prevented its advance, and a fervent hope and trust
in its future destinies; and these feelings impelled him
to speculate worthily and wisely respecting a Reform of
the Method of Philosophizing. The manuscripts of his
works have existed for nearly six hundred years in many
of the libraries of Europe, and especially in those of
England; and for a long period the very imperfect por­
tions of them which were generally known, left the
character and attainments of the author shrouded in a
kind of mysterious obscurity. About a century ago,
however, his Opus Majus was published* by Dr. S. Jebb,
principally from a manuscript in the library of Trinity
College, Dublin; and this contained most or all of the
• Fratrit Rcgeri Bacon Ordini*Opus Majus ad
mentem Quartum, PontificemRoman um, ex MS. Codice Dnblini
rum aliit quibutdamcollato nunc edidit S. Jebb, M.D.
I,nndini, 1733.
V O L . I I . W . P. M
separate works which were previously known to the
public, along with others still more peculiar and cha­
racteristic. We are thus able to judge of Roger Bacon’s
knowledge and of his views, and they are in every way
well worthy our attention.
The OpusMajus is addressed to Pope Clement th
Fourth, whom Bacon had known when he was legate in
England as Cardinal-bishop of Sabina, and who admired
the talents of the monk, and pitied him for the perse­
cutions to which he was exposed. On his elevation to
the papal chair, this account of Bacon’s labours and
views was sent, at the earnest request of the pontiff.
Besides the Opus Majus, he wrote two others, the
Opus Minus and Opus Tertium; which were also sent
to the pope, as the author says*, “ on account of the
danger of roads, and the possible loss of the work.”
These works still exist unpublished, in the Cottonian
and other libraries.
The Opus Majus is a work equally wonderful with
regard to its general scheme, and to the special treatises
with which the outlines of the plan are filled up. The
professed object of the work is to urge the necessity of
a reform in the mode of philosophizing, to set forth the
reasons why knowledge had not made a greater pro­
gress, to draw back attention to the sources of know­
ledge which had been unwisely neglected, to discover
other sources which were yet almost untouched, and to
animate men in the undertaking, by a prospect of the
vast advantages which it offered. In the developement
of this plan, all the leading portions of science are ex­
pounded in the most complete shape which they had at
that time assumed; and improvements of a very wide
and striking kind are proposed in some of the principal
of these departments. Even if the work had had no
• Opus Majus, Preef.
1 6 2 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
INNOVATORS OF THE MIDDLE AGES. 163
leading purpose, it would have been highly valuable as a
treasure of the most solid knowledge and soundest spe­
culations of the time; even if it had contained no such
details, it would have been a work most remarkable for
its general views and scope. It may be considered as,
at the same time, the Encyclopedia and the Novum
Organon of the thirteenth century.
Since this work is thus so important in the history
of Inductive Philosophy I shall give, in a note, a view*
of its divisions and contents. But I must now endea­
vour to point out more especially the way in which the
various principles, which the reform of scientific method
involved, are here brought into view.
* Contents of Roger Bacon’s Opus Majus.
Part I. On the four causes of human ignorance :—Authority, Custom,
Popular Opinion, and the Pride of supposed Knowledge.
Part II. On the source of perfect wisdom in the Sacred Scripture.
Part III. On the Usefulness of Grammar.
Part IV. On the Usefulness of Mathematics.
(I.) The necessity of Mathematics in Human Things (pub­
lished separately as the Specula Matkematica).
(2.) The necessity of Mathematics in Divine Things.— 1
This study has occupied holy men : 23. Geography :
3°. Chronology: 4°. Cycles ; the Golden Number, &c. :
5°. Natural Phenomena, as the Rainbow : 6°. Arith­
metic: 7"- Music.
(3.) The Necessity of Mathematics in Ecclesiastical Things.
1°. The Certification of Faith : 2°. The Correction of
the Calendar.
(4.) The Necessity of Mathematics in the State.—1°. Of
Climates: 2°. Hydrography: 3°. Geography : 4°.
Astrology.
Part V. On Perspective (published separately as Perspechva).
(1.) The organs of vision.
(2.) Vision in straight lines.
(3.) Vision reflected and refracted.
(4 ) De multiplicatione specierum (on the propagation of
the impressions of light, heat, &c.)
Part VI. On Experimental Science.
M2
164 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
One of the first points to be noticed for this purpose,
is the resistance to authority; and at the stage of phi­
losophical history with which we here have to do, this
means resistance to the authority of Aristotle, as adopted
and interpreted by the Doctors of the Schools. Bacon’s
work* is divided into Six Parts; and of these Parts,
the First is, Of the four universal Causes of all Human
Ignorance. The causes thus enumerated! are:—the
force of unworthy authority;—traditionary habit;—the
imperfection of the undisciplined senses;—and the dis­
position to conceal our ignorance and to make an osten­
tatious show of our knowledge. These influences involve
every man, occupy every condition. They prevent our
obtaining the most useful and large and fair doctrines
of wisdom, the secrets of all sciences and arts. He then
proceeds to argue, from the testimony of philosophers
themselves, that the authority of antiquity, and especially
of Aristotle, is not infallible. “ We findj their books
full of doubts, obscurities, and perplexities. They scarce
agree with each other in one empty question or one
worthless sophism, or one operation of science, as one
man agrees with another in the practical operations of
medicine, surgery, and the like arts of Secular men.
Indeed,” he adds, “ not only the philosophers, but the
saints have fallen into errours which they have after­
wards retracted,” and this he instances in Augustin,
Jerome, and others. He gives an admirable sketch of
the progress of philosophy from the Ionic School to
Aristotle; of whom he speaks with great applause.
“ Yet,” he adds§, “ those who came after him corrected
him in some things, and added many things to his works,
and shall go on adding to the end of the world.” Ari­
stotle, he adds, is now called peculiarly I
I the Philoso-
* Op. Maj., p. 1. t Tp. 2. i
§ Op. Maj., p. 30. || A utonomatice.
INNOVATORS OF THE MIDDLE A G E S. 1 6 5
pher, “yet there was a time when his philosophy was
silent and unregarded, either on account of the rarity
of copies of his works, or their difficulty, or from envy;
till after the time of Mahomet, when Avicenna and
Averroes, and others, recalled this philosophy into the
full light of exposition. And although the Logic, and
some other works were translated by Boethius from the
Greek, yet the philosophy of Aristotle first received a
quick increase among the Latins at the time of Michael
Scot; who, in the year of our Lord 1230, appeared,
bringing with him portions of the books of Aristotle on
Natural Philosophy and Mathematics. And yet a small
part only of the works of this author is translated, and
a still smaller part is in the hands of common students.”
He adds further* (in the Third Part of the Majus,
which is a Dissertation on Language) that the transla­
tions which are current of these writings, are very bad
and imperfect. With these views, he is moved to ex­
press himself somewhat impatientlyf respecting these
works: “ If I had,” he says, “ power over the works of
Aristotle, I would have them all burnt; for it is only a
loss of time to study in them, and a course of errour,
and a multiplication of ignorance beyond expression.”
“The common herd of students,” he says, “ with their
heads, have no principle by which they can be excited
to any worthy employment; and hence they mope and
* Op. Maj., p 46.
t See Pref. to Jebb's edition. The passages there quoted, however,
are not extracts from the Oput Majut,but (apparently) fr
Minus (MS.Colt. Tib. c. 5.) “ Si haberem potestatem supra libros
Aristotelis, ego facerem omnes cremari; quia non est nisi temporis
amissio studere in illis, et causa erroris, et mnltiplicatio ignorantite
ultra id quod valeat explicari. . . . Vulgus studentum cum capitibus
suis non habet unde excitetur ad aliquid dignum, et ideo languet et
asiniruit circa male translate, et tempus et studium amittit in omnibus
et expenses.”
and make asses of themselves over their bad transla­
tions, and lose their time, and trouble, and money.”
The remedies which he recommends for these evils,
are, in the first place, the study of that only perfect
wisdom which is to be found in the sacred Scripture*,
in the next place, the study of mathematics and the use
of experimentf. By the aid of these methods, Bacon
anticipates the most splendid progress for human know­
ledge. He takes up the strain of hope and confidence
which we have noticed as so peculiar in the Roman
writers; and quotes some of the passages of Seneca
which we adduced in illustration of.this:— that the
attempts in science were at first rude and imperfect,
and were afterwards improved ;—that the day will come,
when what is still unknown shall be brought to light
by the progress of time and the labours of a longer
period ;—that one age does not suffice for inquiries so
wide and various ;—that the people of future times shall
know many things unknown to us ;—and that the time
shall arrive when posterity will wonder that we over­
looked what was so obvious. Bacon himself adds anti­
cipations more peculiarly in the spirit of his own time.
“ We have seen,” he says, at the end of the work, “ how
Aristotle, by the ways which wisdom teaches, could give
to Alexander the empire of the world. And this the
Church ought to take into consideration against the
infidels and rebels, that there may be a sparing of
Christian blood, and especially on account of the troubles
that shall come to pass in the days of Antichrist ; which
by the grace of God, it would be easy to obviate, if
prelates and princes would encourage study, and join
in searching out the secrets of nature and art.”
It may not be improper to observe here that this
belief in the appointed progress of knowledge, is not
* Part ii. t Parts iv., v. and vi.
1 6 0 R EV IE W OF OPINIONS ON KNOW LEDGE.
INNOVATORS OF THE MIDDLE AGES. 1 67
combined with any overweening belief in the unbounded
and independent power of the human intellect. On the
contrary, one of the lessons which Bacon draws from
the state and prospects of knowledge, is the duty of
faith and humility. “ To him,” he says*, “ who denies
the truth of the faith because he is unable to understand
it, I will propose in reply the course of nature, and as
we have seen it in examples.” And after giving some
instances, he adds, “These, and the like, ought to move
men and to excite them to the reception of divine
truths. For if, in the vilest objects of creation, truths
are found, before which the inward pride of man must
bow, and believe though it cannot understand, how much
more should man humble his mind before the glorious
truths of God!” He had before saidf: “ Man is inca­
pable of perfect wisdom in this life; it is hard for him
to ascend towards perfection, easy to glide downwards
to falsehoods and vanities: let him then not boast of his
wisdom, or extol his knowledge. What he knows is
little and worthless, in respect of that which he believes
without knowing; and still less, in respect of that which
he is ignorant of. He is mad who thinks highly of his
wisdom; he most mad, who exhibits it as something
to be wondered at.” He adds, as another reason for
humility, that he has proved by trial, he could teach in
one year, to a poor boy, the marrow of all that the most
diligent person could acquire in forty years’ laborious
and expensive study.
To proceed somewhat more in detail with regard to
Roger Bacon’s views of a Reform in Scientific Inquiry,
we may observe that by making Mathematics and Experi­
ment the two great points of his recommendation, he
directed his improvement to the two essential parts of
all knowledge, Ideas and Facts, and thus took the course
*
Op. M a ) p. 47(j. t M., p. 15.
which the most enlightened philosophy would have sug­
gested. He did not urge the prosecution of experiment,
to the comparative neglect of the existing mathematical
sciences and conceptions; a fault which there is some
ground for ascribing to his great namesake and successor
Francis Bacon: still less did he content himself with a
mere protest against the authority of the schools, and a
vague demand for change, which was almost all that was
done by those who put themselves forward as reformers
in the intermediate time. Roger Bacon holds his way
steadily between the two poles of human knowledge;
which, as we have seen, it is far from easy to do. “ There
are two modes of knowing,” says he*; “ by argument,
and by experiment. Argument concludes a question;
but it does not make us feel certain, or acquiesce in the
contemplation of truth, except the truth be also found
to be so by experience.” It is not easy to express more
decidedly the clearly seen union of exact conceptions
with certain facts, which, as we have explained, consti­
tutes real knowledge.
One large division of the Majus is “On the
Usefulness of Mathematics,” which is shown by a copious
enumeration of existing branches of knowledge, as Chro­
nology, Geography, the Calendar, and (in a separate
Part) Optics. There is a chapterf, “ in which it is
proved by reason, that all science requires mathematics.”
And the arguments which are used to establish this doc­
trine, show a most just appreciation of the office of
mathematics in science. They are such as follows:—
1 6 8 R EV IEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOW LEDGE.
* Op. Maj. p. 445, see also p. 448. “ Seiend« ali« sciunt sua
principia invenire per experimenta, sed conclusiones per argumenta
facta ex principiis inventis. Si vero debeant habere experientiam con-
clusionum suarum particularem et completam, tune oportet quod
habeant per adjutorium istius scientiae nobilis, (experimentalis.)’*
t Op, Maj., p, 60.
INNOVATORS OF THE MIDDLE AGES. 169
That other sciences use examples taken from mathe­
matics as the most evident:—That mathematical know­
ledge is, as it were, innate in us, on which point he
refers to the well known dialogue of Plato, as quoted
by Cicero:—That this science, being the easiest, offers
the best introduction to the more difficult:—That in
mathematics, things as known to us are identical with
things as known to nature:—That we can here entirely
avoid doubt and errour, and obtain certainty and truth:
— That mathematics is prior to other sciences in nature,
because it takes cognizance of quantity, which is appre­
hended by intuition, ( intuituintellectus.) “ Moreo
he adds*, “there have been found famous men, as
Robert, bishop of Lincoln, and Brother Adam Marsh-
man, (de Marisco) and many others, who by the power
of mathematics have been able to explain the causes of
things; as may be seen in the writings of these men, for
instance, concerning the Rainbow and Comets, and the
generation of heat, and climates, and the celestial bodies.”
But undoubtedly the most remarkable portion of the
Optus Majus is the Sixth and last Part, which is entitled
*
*
De Scientia experimentali.” It is indeed an extraordi­
nary circumstance to find a writer of the thirteenth cen­
tury, not only recognizing experiment as one source of
knowledge, but urging its claims as something far more
important than men had yet been aware of, exemplifying
its value by striking and just examples, and speaking of
its authority with a dignity of diction which sounds like a
foremurmur of the Baconian sentences uttered nearly four
hundred years later. Yet this is the character of what we
here findf. “Experimental science, the sole mistress of
* Op. M a jp. 64.
t “ Veritates magnificas in temiinis aliarum scientarium in qua»
per nullani viam possunt ill® scientia, h®c sola scientiarum doinina
«peculatirarum, potest dare/’ Op. Maj., p. 465.
1 7 0 R EV IE W OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
speculative sciences, has three great Prerogatives among
other parts of knowledge: First she tests by experiment
the noblest conclusions of all other sciences: Next she
discovers respecting the notions which other sciences
deal with, magnificent truths to which these sciences of
themselves can by no means attain: her Third dignity is,
that she by her own power and without respect of other
sciences, investigates the secrets of nature.”
The examples which Bacon gives of these “ Preroga­
tives” are very curious, exhibiting, among some errour
and credulity, sound and clear views. His leading
example of the First Prerogative, is the Rainbow, of
which the cause, as given by Aristotle, is tested by refer­
ence to experiment with a skill which is, even to us now,
truly admirable. The examples of the Second Preroga­
tive are three:—first, the art of making an artificial
sphere which shall move with the heavens by natural
influences, which Bacon trusts may be done, though
astronomy herself cannot do it—“ et tunc,” he says,
“ thesaurum unius regis valeret hoc instrumentum;”—
secondly, the art of prolonging life, which experiment
may teach, though medicine has no means of securing it
except by regimen*;—thirdly, the art of making gold
finer than fine gold, which goes beyond the power of
alchemy. The Third Prerogative of experimental science,
arts independent of the received sciences, is exemplified
in many curious examples, many of them whimsical tra­
* One of the ingredients of a preparation here mentioned, is the
flesh of a dragon, which, it appears, is used as food by the Ethiopians,
The mode of preparing this food cannot fail to amuse the reader.
“ Where there are good flying dragons, by the art which they possess,
they draw them out of their dens, and have bridles and saddles in
readiness, and they ride upon them, and make them bound about in
the air in a violent manner, that the hardness and toughness of the
flesh may be reduced, as lx>urs are hunted ami bulls arc baited before
they arc killed for eating/' Op, p. 470-
INNOVATORS OF THE MIDDLE AGES. 171
ditions. Thus it is said that the character of a people
may be altered by altering the air*. Alexander, it
seems, applied to Aristotle to know whether he should
exterminate certain nations which he had discovered, as
being irreclaimably barbarous; to which the philosopher
replied, “ If you can alter their air, permit them to live,
if not, put them to death.” In this part, we find the
suggestion that the fire-works made by children, of salt­
petre, might lead to the invention of a formidable mili­
tary weapon.
It could not be expected that Roger Bacon, at a time
when experimental science hardly existed, could give any
precepts for the discovery of truth by experiment. But
nothing can be a better example of the method of such
investigation, than his inquiry concerning the cause of
the Rainbow. Neither Aristotle, nor Avicenna, nor
Seneca, he says, have given us any clear knowledge of
this matter, but experimental science can do so. Let
the experimenter ( experimentator)
consider the cas
which he finds the same colours, as the hexagonal cry­
stals from Ireland and India; by looking into these he
will see colours like these of the rainbow. Many think
that this arises from some special virtue of these stones
and their hexagonal figure; let therefore the experi­
menter go on, and he will find the same in other trans­
parent stones, in dark ones as well as in light-coloured.
He will find the same effect also in other forms than the
hexagon, if they be furrowed in the surface, as the Irish
crystals are. Let him consider too, that he sees the
same colours in the drops which are dashed from oars
in the sunshine;—and in the spray thrown by a mill
wheel;—and in the dew drops which lie on the grass in
a meadow on a summer morning;—and if a man takes
water in his mouth and projects it on one side into a
* Op. M a j p. 473.
172 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
sunbeam;—and if in an oil lamp hanging in the air, the
rays fall in certain positions upon the surface of the oil;
—and in many other ways, are colours produced. We
have here a collection of instances, which arc almost all
examples of the same kind as the phenomenon under
consideration; and hy the help of a principle collected
by induction from these facts, the colours of the rainbow
were afterwards really explained.
With regard to the form and other circumstances of
the bow he is still more precise. He bids us measure
the height of the bow and of the sun, to show that the
center of the bow is exactly opposite to the sun. He
explains the circular form of the bow,—its being inde­
pendent of the form of the cloud, its moving when we
move, its flying when we follow,—by its consisting of
the reflections from a vast number of minute drops. He
does not, indeed, trace the course of the rays through
the drop, or account for the precise magnitude which
the bow assumes; but he approaches to the verge of
this part of the explanation; and must be considered as
having given a most happy example of experimental
inquiry into nature, at a time when such examples were
exceedingly scanty. In this respect, he was more for­
tunate than Francis Bacon, as we shall hereafter see.
We know but little of the biography of Roger Bacon,
but we have every reason to believe that his influence
upon his age was not great. He was suspected of magic,
and is said to have been put into close confinement in
consequence of this charge. In his work he speaks of
Astrology, as a science well worth cultivating. “ But,”
says he, “ Theologians and Decretists, not being learned
in such matters, and seeing that evil as well as good may
be done, neglect and abhor such things, and reckon them
among Magic Arts.” We have already seen, that at the
very time when Bacon was thus raising his voice against
Digitized by Googk
INNOVATORS OF THE MIDDLE AGES. 1 7 3
the habit of blindly following authority, and seeking for
all science in Aristotle, Thomas Aquinas was employed
in fashioning Aristotle’s tenets into that fixed form in
which they became the great impediment to the progress
of knowledge. It would seem, indeed, that something
of a struggle between the progressive and stationary
powers of the human mind was going on at this time.
Bacon himself says*, “ Never was there so great an
appearance of wisdom, nor so much exercise of study in
so many Faculties, in so many regions, as for this last
forty years. Doctors are dispersed everywhere, in every
castle, in every burgh, and especially by the students of
two Orders, (he means the Franciscans and Dominicans,
who were almost the only religious orders that distin­
guished themselves by an application to studyf,) which
has not happened except for about forty years. And yet
there was never so much ignorance, so much errour.”
And in the part of his work which refers to Mathematics,
he says of that studyJ, that it is the door and the key of
the sciences; and that the neglect of it for thirty or
forty years has entirely ruined the studies of the Latins.
According to these statements, some change, disastrous
to the fortunes of science, must have taken place about
1230, soon after the foundation of the Dominican and
Franciscan Orders §. Nor can we doubt that the adop­
tion of the Aristotelian philosophy by these two Orders,
in the form in which the Angelical Doctor had systema­
tized it, was one of the events which most tended to
defer, for three centuries, the reform which Roger Bacon
urged as a matter of crying necessity in his own time.
• Quoted by Jebb, Prsf. to Op. Maj.
t Moeheira, Hitt. til. 161. % Op. M a j p. 57.
§ Mosheim, m. 161.
1 7 4 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
C h a p t e r VIII.
TH E REVIVAL OF PLATONISM.
1. Causes of Delay in the Advance qf Knowledge.—In
the insight possessed by learned men into the method
by which truth was to be discovered, the fourteenth
and fifteenth centuries went backwards, rather than
forwards, from the point which had been reached in
the thirteenth. Roger Bacon had urged them to have
recourse to experiment; but they returned with addi­
tional and exclusive zeal to the more favourite employ­
ment of reasoning upon their own conceptions. He had
called upon them to look at the world without; but their
eyes forthwith turned back upon the world within. In
the constant oscillation of the human mind between
Ideas and Facts, after having for a moment touched the
latter, it seemed to swing back more impetuously to the
former. Not only was the philosophy of Aristotle firmly
established for a considerable period, but when men
began to question its authority, they attempted to set
up in its place a philosophy still more purely ideal, that
of Plato. It was not till the actual progress of experi­
mental knowledge for some centuries had given it a vast
accumulation of force, that it was able to break its way
fully into the circle of speculative science. The new
Platonist schoolmen had to run their course, the prac­
tical discoverers had to prove their merit by their works,
the Italian innovators had to utter their aspirations for
a change, before the second Bacon could truly declare
that the time for a fundamental reform was at length
arrived.
It cannot but seem strange, to any one who attempts
to trace the general outline of the intellectual progress
of man, and who considers him as under the guidance of
REVIVAL OF PLATONISM.
a Providential sway, that he should thus be permitted to
wander so long in a wilderness of intellectual darkness;
and even to turn back, by a perverse caprice as it might
seem, when on the very border of the brighter and better
land which was his destined inheritance. We do not
attempt to solve this difficulty: but such a course of
things naturally suggests the thought, that a progress in
physical science is not the main object of man’s career,
in the eyes of the Power who directs the fortunes of our
race. We can easily conceive that it may have been
necessary to man’s general welfare that he should con­
tinue to turn his eyes inwards upon his own heart and
faculties, till Law and Duty, Religion and Government,
Faith and Hope, had been fully incorporated with all the
past acquisitions of human intellect; rather than that he
should have rushed on into a train of discoveries tending
to chain him to the objects and operations of the mate­
rial world. The systematic Law* and philosophical
Theology which acquired their ascendancy in men's
minds at the time of which we speak, kept them en­
gaged in a region of speculations which perhaps pre­
pared the way for a profounder and wider civilization,
for a more elevated and spiritual character, than might
have been possible without such a preparation. The
great Italian poet of the fourteenth century speaks with
strong admiration of the founders of the system which
prevailed in his time. Thomas, Albert, Gratian, Peter
Lombard, occupy distinguished places in the Paradise.
The first, who is the poet’s instructor, says,—
Io fui degli agni della santa greggia
Che Domenico mena per cammino
U' ben s’impingua se non si vaneggia.
Questo che m’e a destra piu vicino
• Gratian published the Decretals in the twelfth century ; and the
Canon and Civil Law became a regular study in the universities soon
afterwards.
17f>
1 7 6 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
Frate e maestro fummi; ed esso Alberto
E di Cologna, ed io Tomas d’Aquino.....................
Quell* altro fiammeggiar esce del riso
De Grazian, che l’uno et l'altro foro
Ajutd si che piace in Paradiso.
I, then, was of the lambs that Dominic
Leads, for his saintly flock, along the way
Where well they thrive not swoln with vanity.
He nearest on my right-hand brother was
And master to me ; Albert of Cologne
Is this; and of Aquinum Thomas, I.....................
That next resplendence issues from the smile
Of Gratian who to either forum lent
Such help as favour wins in Paradise.
It appears probable that neither poetry, nor painting,
nor the other arts which require for their perfection a
lofty and spiritualized imagination, would have appeared
in the noble and beautiful forms which they assumed in
the fourteenth and fifteenth century, if men of genius
had, at the beginning of that period, made it their main
business to discover the laws of nature, and to reduce
them to a rigorous scientific form. Yet who can doubt
that the absence of these touching and impressive works
would have left one of the best and purest parts of man’s
nature without its due nutriment and developement?
It may perhaps be a necessary condition in the progress
of man, that the Arts which aim at beauty should reach
their excellence before the Sciences which seek specula­
tive truth; and if this be so, we inherit, from the middle
ages, treasures which may well reconcile us to the delay
which took place in their cultivation of experimental
science.
However this may be, it is our business at present
to trace the circumstances of this very lingering advance.
We have already noticed the contest of the Nominalists
and Realists, which was one form, though, with regard
REVIVAL OF PLATONISM 1 77
to scientific methods, an unprofitable one, of the anti­
thesis of Ideas and Things. Though, therefore, this
struggle continued, we need not dwell upon it. The
Nominalists denied the real existence of Ideas, which
doctrine was to a great extent implied in the prevailing
systems; but the controversy in which they thus engaged,
did not lead them to seek for knowledge in a new field
and by new methods. The arguments which Occam the
Nominalist opposes to those of Duns Scotus the Realist,
are marked with the stamp of the same system, and
consist only in permutations and combinations of the
same elementary conceptions. It was not till the im­
pulse of external circumstances was added to the dis­
content, which the more stirring intellects felt towards
the barren dogmatism of their age, that the activity of
the human mind was again called into full play, and
a new career of progression entered upon, till then
undreamt of, except by a few prophetic spirits.
2. Causes of Progress.—These circumstances were
principally the revival of Greek and Roman literature,
the invention of Printing, the Protestant Reformation, and
a great number of curious discoveries and inventions in
the arts, which were soon succeeded by important steps
in speculative physical science. Connected with the first
of these events, was the rise of a party of learned men
who expressed their dissatisfaction with the Aristotelian
philosophy, as it was then taught, and manifested a
strong preference for the views of Plato. It is by no
means suitable to our plan to give a detailed account of
this new Platonic school; but we may notice a few of
the writers who belong to it, so far at least as to indicate
its influence upon the Methods of pursuing science.
In the fourteenth century *, the frequent intercourse
of the most cultivated persons of the Eastern and West-
* Tonnoman, ix. 14.
N
VOL. I I . W . P.
ern Empire, the increased study of the Greek language
in Italy, the intellectual activity of the Italian States,
the discovery of manuscripts of the classical authors, were
circumstances which excited or nourished a new and
zealous study of the works of Greek and Roman genius.
The genuine writings of the ancients, when presented in
their native life and beauty, instead of being seen only
in those lifeless fragments and dull transformations
which the scholastic system had exhibited, excited an
intense enthusiasm. Europe, at that period, might be
represented by Plato’s beautiful allegory, of a man who,
after being long kept in a dark cavern, in which his
knowledge of the external world is gathered from the
images which stream through the chinks of his prison,
is at last led forth into the full blaze of day. It was
inevitable that such a change should animate men’s
efforts and enlarge their faculties. Greek literature be­
came more and more known, especially by the influence
of learned men who came from Constantinople into
Italy: these teachers, though they honoured Aristotle,
reverenced Plato no less, and had never been accustomed
to follow with servile submission of thought either these
or any other leaders. The effect of such influences soon
reveals itself in the works of that period. Dante has
woven into his Divina Comedia some of the ideas of
Platonism. Petrarch, who had formed his mind by
the study of Cicero, and had thus been inspired with a
profound admiration for the literature of Greece, learnt
Greek from Barlaam, a monk who came as ambassador
from the Emperor of the East to the Pope, in 1339.
With this instructor, the poet read the works of Plato;
struck by their beauty, he contributed, by his writings and
his conversation, to awake in others an admiration and
love for that philosopher, which soon became strongly
and extensively prevalent among the learned in Italy.
178 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
REVIVAL OF PLATONISM. 1 79
3. Hermolaus Barbaras, 8$c.— Along with this feeling
there prevailed also, among those who had learnt to relish
the genuine beauties of the Greek and Latin writers,
a strong disgust for the barbarisms in which the scho­
lastic philosophy was clothed.- Hermolaus Barbarus*,
who was born in 1454, at Venice, and had formed his
taste by the study of classical literature, translated,
among other learned works, Themistius’s paraphrastic
exposition of the Physics of Aristotle; with the view of
trying whether the Aristotelian Natural Philosophy could
not be presented in good Latin, which the scholastic
teachers denied. In his Preface he expresses great indig­
nation against those philosophers who have written and
disputed on philosophical subjects in barbarous Latin,
and in an uncultured style, so that all refined minds are
repelled from these studies by weariness and disgust.
They have, he says, by this barbarism, endeavoured to
secure to themselves, in their own province, a supremacy
without rivals or opponents. Hence they maintain that
mathematics, philosophy, jurisprudence, cannot be ex­
pounded in correct Latin;—that between these sciences
and the genuine Latin language there is a great gulf,
as between things that cannot be brought together: and
on this ground they blame those who combine the study
of philology and eloquence with that of science. This
opinion, adds Hermolaus, perverts and ruins our studies;
and is highly prejudicial and unworthy in respect to
the state. Hermolaus awoke in others, as for instance,
in John Picus of Mirandula, the same dislike to the
reigning school philosophy. As an opponent of the
same kind, we may add Marius Nizolius of Bersallo, a
scholar who carried his admiration of Cicero to an ex­
aggerated extent, and who was led, by a controversy
with the defenders of the scholastic philosophy, to pub-
* Tenneman, ix. 25.
N 2
lish (1553) a work On the True Principles and True
Method of Philosophizing. In the title of this work,
he professes to give “the true principles of almost all
arts and sciences, refuting and rejecting almost all the
false principles of the Logicians and Metaphysicians.”
But although, in the work, he attacks the scholastic phi­
losophy, he does little or nothing to justify the large
pretensions of his title; and he excited, it is said, little
notice. It is therefore curious that Leibnitz should have
thought it worth his while to re-edit this work, which
he did in 1670, adding remarks of his own.
4.Nicolaus Cusanus.—Without dwelling upon this
opposition to the scholastic system on the ground of
taste, I shall notice somewhat further those writers who
put forwards Platonic views, as fitted to complete or to
replace the doctrines of Aristotle. Among these, I may
place Nicolaus Cusanus, so called from Cus, a village
on the Moselle, where he was born in 1401; who was
afterwards raised to the dignity of cardinal. We might,
indeed, at first be tempted to include Cusanus among
those persons who were led to reject the old philosophy
by being themselves agents in the progressive movement
of physical science. For he published, before Copernicus,
and independently of him, the doctrine that the earth is
in motion *. But it should be recollected that in order
to see the possibility of this doctrine, and its claims to
acceptance, no new reference to observation was requisite.
The Heliocentric System was merely a new mode of
representing to the mind facts with which all astronomers
had long been familiar. The system might very easily
have been embraced and inculcated by Plato himself; as
indeed it is said to have been actually taught by Pytha­
goras. The mere adoption of the Heliocentric view,
* M
Jam nobis manifestumest terramistam in veritate moverl,”&
c.
-
—
De Doctd Ignorantid, Lib. n. cap. 12.
1 8 0 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
REVIVAL OF PLATONISM. 181
therefore, without attempting to realize the system in
detail, as Copernicus did, cannot entitle a writer of the
fifteenth century to be looked upon as one of the authors
of the discoveries of that period; and we must consider
Cusanus as a speculative anti-Aristotelian, rather than
as a practical reformer.
The title of Cusanus’s book, Doctd
shows how far he was from agreeing with those who con­
ceived that, in the works of Aristotle, they had a full and
complete system of all human knowledge. At the out­
set of this book*, he says, after pointing out some diffi­
culties in the received philosophy, “ If, therefore, the case
be so, (as even the most profound Aristotle, in his First
Philosophy, affirms,) that in things most manifest by
nature, there is a difficulty, no less than for an owl to
look at the sun; since the appetite of knowledge is not
implanted in us in vain, we ought to desire to know that
we are ignorant. If we can fully attain to this, we shall
arrive at Instructed Ignorance.” How far he was from
placing the source of knowledge in experience, as opposed
to ideas, we may see in the following passagef from
another work of his, On Conjectures. “Conjectures must
proceed from our mind, as the real world proceeds from
the infinite Divine Reason. For since the human mind,
the lofty likeness of God, participates, as it may, in the
fruitfulness of the creative nature, it doth from itself, as
the image of the Omnipotent Form, bring forth reason­
able thoughts which have a similitude to real existences.
Thus the Human Mind exists as a conjectural form of
the world, as the Divine Mind is its real form.” We
have here the Platonic or ideal side of knowledge put
prominently and exclusively forwards.
5. Marsilius Ficimis, —A person who had much
more influence on the diffusion of Platonism was Marsi-
* De Doct. Ig n o r Lib. |. c. 1. + De Conjecturis, Lib. i. c. 3,
1 8 2 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
lius Ficinus, a physician of Florence. In that city there
prevailed, at the time of which we speak, the greatest
enthusiasm for Plato. George Gemistius Pletho, when
in attendance upon the Council of Florence, had imparted
to many persons the doctrines of the Greek philosopher;
and, among others, had infused a lively interest on this
subject into the elder Cosmo, the head of the family of
the Medici. Cosmo formed the plan of founding a
Platonic academy. Ficinus*, well instructed in the
works of Plato, Plotinus, Proclus, and other Platonists,
was selected to further this object, and was employed in
translating the works of these authors into Latin. It is
not to our present purpose to consider the doctrines of
this school, except so far as they bear upon the nature
and methods of knowledge; and therefore I must pass
by, as I have in other instances done, the greater part of
their speculations, which related to the nature of God,
the immortality of the soul, the principles of Goodness
and Beauty, and other points of the same order. The
object of these and other Platonists of this school, how­
ever, was not to expel the authority of Aristotle by that
of Plato. Many of them had come to the conviction
that the highest ends of philosophy were to be reached
only by bringing into accordance the doctrines of Plato
and of Aristotle. Of this opinion was John Picus, Count
of Mirandula and Concordia; and under this persuasion
he employed the whole of his life in labouring upon a
work, De Concordid Platonis et Aristotelis, which was
not completed at the time of his death, in 1494; and
has never been published. But about a century later,
another writer of the same school, Francis Patriciusf,
pointing out the discrepancies between the two Greek
teachers, urged the propriety of deposing Aristotle from
the supremacy he had so long enjoyed. “ Now all these
* Bom in 1433. t Bom 1529, died 1597-
REVIVAL OF PLATONISM. 1 8 3
doctrines, and others not a few,” he says*, “since they
are Platonic doctrines, philosophically most true, and
consonant with the Catholic faith, whilst the Aristotelian
tenets are contrary to the faith, and philosophically false,
who will not, both as a Christian and a philosopher,
prefer Plato to Aristotle? And why should not here­
after, in all the colleges and monasteries of Europe, the
reading and study of Plato be introduced ? Why should
not the philosophy of Aristotle be forthwith exiled from
such places? Why must men continue to drink the
mortal poison of impiety from that source ?” with much
more in the same strain.
The Platonic school, of which we have spoken, had,
however, reached its highest point of prosperity before
this time, and was already declining. About 1500, the
Platonists appeared to triumph over the Peripateticsf ;
but the death of their great patron, Cardinal Bessarion,
about this time, and we may add, the hollowness of their
system in many points, and its want of fitness for the
wants and expectations of the age, turned men’s thoughts
partly back to the established Aristotelian doctrines, and
partly forwards to schemes of bolder and fresher promise.
6. Francis Patricias.—Patricius, of whom we have
just spoken, was one ofthose who had arrived at the con­
viction that the formation of a new philosophy, and not
merely the restoration of an old one, was needed. In
1593, appeared his Nova de Universis Philosophia; and
the mode in which it beginsJ can hardly fail to remind
us of the expressions which Francis Bacon soon after­
wards used in the opening of a work of the same nature.
“Francis Patricius, being about to found anew the true
* Aristotslss Exotericus, p. 50.
+ Tiraboschi, t. vil part ii. p. 411.
t “Franciscus Patricius, novam yeram integram de univereis condi-
turus philosophiam, sequentia uti verissima preenuntiare est ausus.
Pra?-
philosophy of the universe, dared to begin by announcing
the following indisputable principles.” Here, however,
the resemblance between Patricius and true inductive
philosophers ends. His principles are barren d priori
axioms; and his system has one main element, Light,
{Lux, or Lumen,) to which all operations of nature are
referred. In general cultivation, and practical knowledge
of nature, he was distinguished among his contemporaries.
In various passages of his works he relates* observations
which he had made in the course of his travels, in Cyprus,
Corfu, Spain, the mountains of the Modenese, and Dal­
matia, which was his own country; his observations relate
to light, the saltness of the sea, its flux and reflux, and
other points of astronomy, meteorology, and natural his­
tory. He speaks of the sex of plants t; rejects judicial
astrology; and notices the astronomical systems of Co­
pernicus, Tycho, Fracastoro, and Torre. But the mode in
which he speaks of experiments proves, what indeed is
evident from the general scheme of his system, that he
had no due appreciation of the place which observation
must hold in real and natural philosophy.
7. Picas, Agrippa,<
%
c.— It had been seen in
philosophical history of Greece, how readily the ideas of
the Platonic school lead on to a system of unfathomable
and unbounded mysticism. John Picus, of Mirandula},
added to the study of Plato and the Neoplatonists, a mass
of allegorical interpretations of the Scriptures, and the
Praenunciata ordine persecutus, divinis oraculis, geomctrieis rationibus,
clarissimisque expcrimentis comprobavit.
Ante priraum nihil,
Post priraum omnia,
A principio omnia,’' &c.
11is other works are Panangia, Pancosmia, Dissertations Peripatética.
* Tirabosclii, t. vn. part ii. p. 411.
t Dissert. Pcripatet♦, t. i i . lib. v. sub fin.
+ Tenneraan, ix. 148.
184 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
Digitized by Google
REVIVAL OF PLATONISM. 1 8 5
dreams of the Cabbala, a Jewish system *, which pretends
to explain how all things are an emanation of the Deity.
To this his nephew, Francis Picus, added a reference to
inward illumination f, by which knowledge is obtained,
independently of the progress of reasoning. John
Reuchlin, or Capnio, born 1455; John Baptist Helmont,
born 1577; Francis Mercurius Helmont, born 1618,
and others, succeeded John Picus in his admiration of
the Cabbala: while others, as Jacob Boehmen, rested upon
internal revelations like Francis Picus. And thus we
have a series of mystical writers, continued into modern
times, who may be considered as the successors of the
Platonic school; and who all exhibit views altogether
erroneous with regard to the nature and origin of know­
ledge. Among the various dreams ofthis school are certain
wide and loose analogies of terrestrial and spiritual things.
Thus in the writings of Cornelius Agrippa (who was born
1487, at Cologne) we have such systems as the following ;
—“ Since there is a threefold world, elemental, celestial,
and intellectual, and each lower one is governed by that
above it, and receives the influence of its powers: so that
the very Archetype and Supreme Author transfuses the
virtues of his omnipotence into us through angels,
heavens, stars, elements, animals, plants, stones,—into
us, I say, for whose service he has framed and created all
these things;—the Magi do not think it irrational that
we should be able to ascend by the same degrees, the
same worlds, to this Archetype of the world, the Author
and First Cause of all, of whom all things are, and from
whom they proceed; and should not only avail ourselves
of those powers which exist in the nobler works of crea­
tion, but also should be able to attract other powers, and
add them to these.”
* Tcnneman, ix. 167. t lb., loft.
t Agrippa, Dc Occult. Phil., Lib. 1. c. 1
.
Agrippa’s work, De Vanitate Scientiarum, may be said
rather to have a skeptical and cynical, than a Platonic,
character. It is a declamation *, in a melancholy mood,
against the condition of the sciences in his time. His
indignation at the worldly success of men whom he con­
sidered inferior to himself, had, he says, metamorphosed
him into a dog, as the poets relate of Hecuba of Troy,
so that his impulse was to snarl and hark. His professed
purpose, however, was to expose the dogmatism, the
servility, the self-conceit, and the neglect of religious
truth which prevailed in the reigning Schools of philo­
sophy. His views of the nature of science, and the
modes of improving its cultivation, are too imperfect and
vague to allow us to rank him among the reformers of
science.
8. Paracelsus, Fludd, <
%
c.—The celebrated Paracelsusf
put himself forwards as a reformer in philosophy, and
obtained no small number of adherents. He was, in
most respects, a shallow and impudent pretender; and
had small knowledge of the literature or science of his
time: but by the tone of his speaking and writing he
manifestly belongs to the mystical school of which we are
now speaking. Perhaps by the boldness with which he
proposed new systems, and by connecting these with the
practical doctrines of medicine, he contributed something
to the introduction of a new philosophy. We have seen
in the History of Chemistry that he was the author of
the system of Three Principles, (salt, sulphur, and mer­
cury,) which replaced the ancient doctrine of Four Ele­
ments, and prepared the way for a true science of che­
mistry. But the salt, sulphur, and mercury of Paracelsus
were not, he tells his disciples, the visible bodies which
• W ritten in 1526.
t Philip Aurelius Theophrastus Bombastus von Hohenheim, also
called Paracelsus Eremita, bom at Einsiedlen in Switzerland, in 1493-
186 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
REVIVAL OF PLATONISM. 1 8 7
we call by those names, but certain invisible, astral, or
sidereal elements. The astral salt is the basis of the
solidity and incombustible parts in bodies; the astral
snlphur is the source of combustion and vegetation; the
astral mercury is the origin of fluidity and volatility. And
again, these three elements are analogous to the three
elements of man,—Body, Spirit, and Soul.
A writer of our own country, belonging to this mysti­
cal school, is Robert Fludd, or De Fluctibus, who was
born in 1571, in Kent, and after pursuing his studies at
Oxford, travelled for several years. Of all the Theoso-
phists and Mystics, he is by much the most learned; and
was engaged in various controversies with Mersenne,
Gassendi, Kepler, and others. He thus brings us in
contact with the next class of philosophers whom we have
to consider, the practical reformers of philosophy;—those
who furthered the cause of science by making, promul­
gating, or defending the great discoveries which now
began to occupy men. He adopted the principle, which
we have noticed elsewhere*, of the analogy of the Macro­
cosm and Microcosm, the world of nature and the world
of man. His system contains such a mixture and con­
fusion of physical and metaphysical doctrines as might be
expected from his ground-plan, and from his school.
Indeed his object, the general object of mystical specula­
tors, is to identify physical with spiritual truths. Yet the
influence of the practical experimental philosophy which
was now gaining ground in the world may be traced in
him. Thus he refers to experiments on distillation to
prove the existence and relation of the regions of water,
air, and fire, and of the spirits which correspond to them;
and is conceived, by some persons +, to have anticipated
Torricelli in the invention of the Barometer.
• B. ix. c. 2. s. ]. The Mystical School of Biology.
+ Tcnneman, ix. 221.
We need no further follow the speculations of this
school. We see already abundant reason why the reform
of the methods of pursuing science could not proceed
from the Platonists. Instead of seeking knowledge by
experiment, they immersed themselves deeper than even
the Aristotelians had done in traditionary lore, or turned
their eyes inwards in search of an internal illumination.
Some attempts were made to remedy the defects of phi­
losophy by a recourse to the doctrines of other sects
of antiquity, when men began to feel more distinctly
the need of a more connected and solid knowledge of
nature than the established system gave them. Among
these attempts were those of Berigard *, Magernus, and
especially Gassendi, to bring into repute the philosophy
of the Ionian school, of Democritus and of Epicurus.
But these endeavours were posterior in time to the new
impulse given to knowledge by Copernicus, Kepler, and
Galileo, and were influenced by views arising out of the
success of these discoveries, and they must, therefore,
be considered hereafter. In the mean time, some inde­
pendent efforts (arising from speculative rather than
practical reformers) were made to cast off the yoke of
the Aristotelian dogmatism, and to apprehend the true
form of that new philosophy which the most active and
hopeful minds saw to be needed; and we must give some
account of these attempts, before we can commit our­
selves to the full stream of progressive philosophy.
* Tenneman, 265.
1 8 8 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
THEORETICAL REFORMERS OF SCIENCE. 189
Chapter IX.
THE THEORETICAL REFORMERS OF SCIENCE.
We have already seen that Patricius, about the middle
of the sixteenth century, announced his purpose of
founding anew the whole fabric of philosophy; but that,
in executing this plan, he ran into wide and baseless
hypotheses, suggested by d priori conceptions rather
than by external observation; and that he was further
misled by fanciful analogies resembling those which the
Platonic mystics loved to contemplate. The same time,
and the period which followed it, produced several other
essays which were of the same nature, with the excep­
tion of their being free from the peculiar tendencies of
the Platonic school: and these insurrections against the
authority of the established dogmas, although they did
not directly substitute a better positive system in the
place of that which they assailed, shook the authority
of the Aristotelian system, and led to its overthrow;
which took place as soon as these theoretical were aided
by other practical reformers.
Bernardinus Telesius.—Italy, always, in modern
times, fertile in the beginnings of new systems, was the
soil on which these innovators arose. These earliest and
most conspicuous of them is Bernardinus Telesius, who
was born in 1508, at Cosenza, in the kingdom of Naples.
His studies, carried on with great zeal and ability, first
at Milan and then at Rome, made him well acquainted
with the knowledge of his times; but his own reflections
convinced him that the basis of science, as then received,
was altogether erroneous; and led him to attempt a
reform, with which view, in 1565, he published, at Rome,
his work *, “ Bernardinus Telesius, of Cosenza, on th-e
• Bernardini Telesii Consentini De Rerum Natura juxla propria
Prtncipia.
Nature of Things, according to principles of his own."
In the preface of this work he gives a short account*
of the train of reflection by which he was led to put
himself in opposition to the Aristotelian philosophy.
This kind of autobiography occurs not unfrequently in
the writings of theoretical reformers; and shows how
livelily they felt the novelty of their undertaking. After
the storm and sack of Rome in 1527, Telesius retired to
Padua, as a peaceful seat of the muses; and there studied
philosophy and mathematics, with great zeal, under the
direction of Jerom Amalthseus and Frederic Delphinus.
In these studies he made great progress; and the know­
ledge which he thus acquired threw a new light upon
his view of the Aristotelian philosophy. He undertook
a closer examination of the Physical Doctrines of Aris­
totle ; and as the result of this, he was astonished how
it could have been possible that so many excellent men,
so many nations, and even almost the whole human
race, should, for so long a time, have allowed themselves
to be carried away by a blind reverence for a teacher,
who had committed errours so numerous and grave as he
perceived to exist in “ the philosopher.” Along with
this view of the insufficiency of the Aristotelian philo­
sophy, arose, at an early period, the thought of erecting
a better system in its place. With this purpose he left
Padua, when he had received the degree of Doctor, and
went to Rome, where he was encouraged in his design
by the approval and friendly exhortations of distin­
guished men of letters, amongst whom were Ubaldino
Bandinelli and Giovanni della Casa. From Rome he
went to his native place, when the incidents and occu­
pations of a married life for a while interrupted his phi­
* I take this account from Tenneman : this Proem was omitted in
subsequent editions of Telesius, and is not in the one which I have
consulted. Tenneman, Gesch. d. Phil., ix. 280.
1 9 0 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
THEORETICAL REFORMERS OF SCIENCE. 191
losophical project. But after his wife was dead, and his
eldest son grown to manhood, he resumed with ardour
the scheme of his youth ; again studied the works of
Aristotle and other philosophers, and composed and
published the first two books of his treatise. The open­
ing to this work sufficiently exhibits the spirit in which
it was conceived. Its object is stated in the title to
be to show, that “the construction of the world, the
magnitude and nature of the bodies contained in it, are
not to be investigated by reasoning, which was done by
the ancients, but are to be apprehended by the senses,
and collected from the things themselves.” And the
Proem is in the same strain. “ They who before us
have inquired concerning the construction of this world
and of the things which it contains, seem indeed to
have prosecuted their examination with protracted vigils
and great labour, but never to have looked at it." And
thus, he observes, they found nothing but errour. This
he ascribes to their presumption. “ For, as it were,
attempting to rival God in wisdom, and venturing to
seek for the principles and causes of the world by the
light of their own reason, and thinking they had found
what they had only invented, they made an arbitrary
world of their own.” “ We then,” he adds, “ not rely­
ing on ourselves, and of a duller intellect than they, pro­
pose to ourselves to turn our regards to the world itself
and its parts.”
The execution of the work, however, by no means
corresponds to the announcement. The doctrines of
Aristotle are indeed attacked ; and the objections to
these, and to other received opinions, form a large part
of the work. But these objections are supported by à
priori reasoning, and not by experiments. And thus,
rejecting the Aristotelian physics, he proposes a system
at least equally baseless; although, no doubt, grateful
to the author from its sweeping and apparently simple
character. He assumes three principles, Heat, Cold,
and Matter: Heat is the principle of motion, Cold of
immobility, and Matter is the corporeal substratum, in
which these incorporeal and active principles produce
their effects. It is easy to imagine that, by combining
and separating these abstractions in various ways, a sort
of account of many natural phenomena may be given;
but it is impossible to ascribe any real value to such
a system. The merit of Telesius must be considered to
consist in his rejection of the Aristotelian errours, in
his perception of the necessity of a reform in the method
of philosophizing, and in his persuasion that this reform
must be founded on experiments rather than on rea­
soning. When he said*, “ We propose to ourselves to
turn our eyes to the world itself and its parts, their
passions, actions, operations and species,” his view of
the course to' be followed was right; but his purpose
remained but ill fulfilled, by the arbitrary edifice of
abstract conceptions which his system exhibits.
Francis Bacon, who, about half a century later, treated
the subject of a reform of philosophy in a far more pene­
trating and masterly manner, has given us his judgment
of Telesius. In his view, he considers Telesius as the
restorer of the Atomic philosophy, which Democritus
and Parmenides taught among the ancients; and accord­
ing to his custom, he presents an image of this philoso­
phy in an adaptation of a portion of ancient mythologyf.
The Celestial Cupid, who, with Coelus, was the parent
of the Gods and of the Universe, is exhibited as a repre­
sentation of matter and its properties, according to the
* Proem.
t “ De Principiis atque Originibus secundum fabulas Cupidinis et
Coeli: Bive Parmenidis et Telesii et prapcipue Dcmocriti Philosophia
tractata in Fabula de Cupidine.”
1 9 2 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
Democritean philosophy. “ Concerning Telesius,” says
Bacon, “ we think well, and acknowledge him as a lover
of truth, a useful contributor to science, an amender of
-some tenets, the first of recent men. But we have to
do with him as the restorer of the philosophy of Par­
menides, to whom much reverence is due.” With regard
to this philosophy, he pronounces a judgment which
very truly expresses the cause of its rashness and empti­
ness. “ It is,” he says, “such a system* as naturally
proceeds from the intellect, abandoned to its own impulse,
and not rising from experience to theory continuously
and successively.” Accordingly, he says that, “Telesius,
although learned in the Peripatetic philosophy (if that
were anything), which indeed, he has turned against
the teachers of it, is hindered by his affirmations, and is
more successful in destroying than in building.”
The work of Telesius excited no small notice, and
was placed in the Index Expurgatorius. It made many
disciples, a consequence probably due to its spirit of
system-making, no less than to its promise of reform, or
its acuteness of argument; for till trial and reflection
have taught man modesty and moderation, he can never
be content to receive knowledge in the small successive
instalments in which nature gives it forth to him. It is
the makers of large systems, arranged with an appear­
ance of completeness and symmetry, who, principally,
give rise to Schools of philosophy.
( ThomasCampanella).—Accordingly, Telesius may be
looked upon as the founder of a School. His most dis­
tinguished successor was Thomas Campanella, who was
born in 1568, at Stilo, in Calabria. He showed great
talents at an early age, prosecuting his studies at Cosenza,
* “ Talia sunt qualia possunt esse ea qu* ab intellectu sibi pci%
misso, nec ab experiments contincnter et gradatim sublevato, profecta
vidcntur.”
V OL, I I . W . P.
THEORETICAL REFORMERS OF SCIENCE. 193
o
the birth-place of the great opponent of Aristotle and
reformer of philosophy. He, too, has given us an ac­
count* of the course of thought by which he was led to
become an innovator. “ Being afraid that not genuine
truth, but falsehood in the place of truth, was the tenant
of the Peripatetic School, I examined all the Greek,
Latin, and Arabic commentators of Aristotle, and hesi­
tated more and more, as I sought to learn whether what
they have said were also to be read in the world itself,
which I had been taught by learned men was the living
book of God. And as my doctors could not satisfy my
scruples, I resolved to read all the books of Plato, Pliny,
Galen, the Stoics, and the Democriteans, and especially
those of Telesius; and to compare them with that first
and original w
r
i
t
i
n
g
, the world; that thus from the
primary autograph, I might learn if the copies contained
anything false.” Campanella probably refers here to an
expression of Plato, who says, “ the world is God’s epistle
to mankind.” And this image, of the natural world as
an original manuscript, while human systems of philoso­
phy are but copies, and may be false ones, became a
favourite thought of the reformers, and appears repeat­
edly in their writings from this time. “ When I held
my public disputation at Cosenza,” Campanella proceeds,
“ and still more, when I conversed privately with the
brethren of the monastery, I found little satisfaction in
their answers; but Telesius delighted me, on account of
his freedom in philosophizing, and because he rested
upon the nature of things, and not upon the assertions
of men.”
With these views and feelings, it is not wonderful
that Campanella, at the early age of twenty-two (1590,)
published a work remarkable for the bold promise of its
* Thom. Campanella de Librisas quoted in T
ix . 291.
194 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
TIIEORETICAL REFORMERS OF SCIENCE. 195
title: “ Thomas CampaneUa'sPhilosophy demon
to the senses, against those mho have philosophized in a
arbitrary and dogmatical manner, not taking nature
for their guide', in which the errours of Aristotle and
his followers are refuted from their own assertions and
the laws of nature; and all the imaginationsfeigned in
the place of nature by the Peripatetics are altogether
rejected; with a true defence of Bemardin Telesius qf
Cosenza, the greatest qf philosopher's; confirmed by the
opinions of the ancients, here elucidated and defended,
especially those of the Platonists."
This work was written in answer to a book published
against Telesius by a Neapolitan professor named Marta;
and it was the boast of the young author that he had
Only employed eleven months in the composition of his
defence, while his adversary had been engaged eleven
years in preparing his attack. Campanella found a
favourable reception in the house of the Marchese La­
velli, and there employed himself in the composition of
an additional work, entitled On the Sense of Things
and Magic, and in other literary labours. These, how­
ever, are full of the indications of an enthusiastic tem­
per, inclined to mystical devotion, and of opinions
bearing the cast of pantheism. For instance, the title
of the book last quoted sets forth as demonstrated in
the course of the work, that “ the world is the living
and intelligent statue of God; and that all its parts, and
particles of parts, are endowed some with a clearer,
some with a more obscure sense, such as suffices for the
preservation of each and of the whole.” Besides these
opinions, which could not fail to make him obnoxious to
the religious authorities, Campanella* engaged in schemes
of political revolution, which involved him in danger and
calamity. He took part in a conspiracy, of which the
* Economist! Italiant, Tom. i, p. xxxiii.
O 2
object was to cast off the tyranny of Spain, and to make
Calabria a republic. This design was discovered; and
Campanella, along with others, was thrown into prison
and subjected to torture. He was kept in confinement
twenty-seven years; and at last obtained his liberation
by the interposition of Pope Urban VIII. He was,
however, still in danger from the Neapolitan Inquisition;
and escaped in disguise to Paris, where he received a
pension from the king, and lived in intercourse with the
most eminent men of letters. He died there in 1639.
Campanella was a contemporary of Francis Bacon,
whom we must consider as belonging to an epoch to
which the Calabrian school of innovators was only a
prelude. I shall not therefore further follow the con­
nexion of writers of this order. Tobias Adami, a Saxon
writer, an admirer of Campanella’s works, employed him­
self, about 1620, in adapting them to the German public,
and in recommending them strongly to German philoso­
phers. Descartes, and even Bacon, may be considered
as successors of Campanella; for they too were theo­
retical reformers ; but they enjoyed the advantage of the
light which had, in the mean time, been thrown upon
the philosophy of science, by the great practical advances
of Kepler, Galileo, and others. To these practical re­
formers we must soon turn our attention ; but we may
first notice one or two additional circumstances belong­
ing to our present subject.
Campanella remarks that both the Peripatetics and
the Platonists conducted the learner to knowledge by a
long and circuitous path*i which he wished to shorten by
setting out from the sense. Without speaking of the
methods which he proposed, we may notice one maxim*
of considerable value which he propounds, and to which
we have already been led. “ We begin to reason from
* Tcnncman, ix. 305.
1 9 6 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
THEORETICAL REFORMERS OF SCIENCE. 197
sensible objects, and definition is the end and epilogue
of science. It is not the beginning of our knowing, but
only of our teaching.”
{Andrew Ceesalpinus.)— The same maxim had already
been announced by Csesalpinus, a contemporary of Tele-
sius; (he was born at Arezzo in 1620, and died at Rome
in 1603.) Csesalpinus is a great name in science, though
professedly an Aristotelian. It has been seen in the
History of Science*, that he formed the first great epoch
of the science of botany by his systematic arrangement
of plants, and that in this task he had no successor for
nearly a century. He also approached near to the great
discovery of the circulation of the bloodf. He takes a
view of science which includes the remark that we have
just quoted from Campanella: “ We reach perfect know­
ledge by three steps: Induction, Division, Definition.
By Induction, we collect likeness and agreement from
observation; by Division, we collect unlikeness and dis­
agreement ; by Definition, we learn the proper substance
of each object. Induction makes universals from par­
ticulars, and offers to the mind all intelligible matter; .
Division discovers the difference of universals, and leads
to species; Definition resolves species into their prin­
ciples and elementsi.” Without asserting this to be
rigorously correct, it is incomparably more true and phi­
losophical than the opposite view, which represents defi­
nition as the beginning of our knowledge; and the
establishment of such a doctrine is a material step in
inductive philosophy §.
{Giordano Bruno.)—Among the Italian innovators
of this time we must notice the unfortunate Giordano
Bruno, who was born at Nola about 1550, and burnt at
Rome in 1G00. He is, however, a reformer of a different
* Hist. hid. S c i B. XVI. c. iii. sort. 2. + Ih , B. x v n . cli ii. sort. 1.
\ tywst Peripatetic<rf i. I. § Tennoman, ix. 100.
school from Campanella; for he derives his philosophy
from Ideas and not from Observation. He represents
himself as the author of a new doctrine, which he terms
the Nolan Philosophy. He was a zealous promulgator
and defender of the Copernican system of the universe,'
as we have noticed in the History of *. Cam­
panella also wrote in defence of that system.
It is worthy of remark that a thought which is often
quoted from Francis Bacon, occurs in Bruno’s Cena di
Cenei'e, published in 1584; I mean, the notion that the
later times are more aged than the earlier. In the
course of the dialogue, the Pedant, who is one of the
interlocutors, says, “ In antiquity is w i s d o m t o which
the Philosophical Character replies, “If you knew what
you were talking about, you would see that your prin­
ciple leads to the opposite result of that which you wish
to infer;— I mean, that we are older, and have lived
longer, than our predecessors.” He then proceeds to
apply this, by tracing the course of astronomy through
the earlier astronomers up to Copernicus.
{Peter Ramus.)— I will notice one other reformer of
this period, who attacked the Aristotelian system on
another side, on which it was considered to be most
impregnable. This was Peter Ramus, (born in Picardy
in 1515,) who ventured to denounce the Logic of Aris­
totle as unphilosophical and useless. After showing an
extraordinary aptitude for the acquirement of knowledge
in his youth, when he proceeded to the degree of Master
of Arts, he astonished his examiners by choosing for the
subject of the requisite disputation the thesisf, “that all
which Aristotle has said is not true." This position, so
startling in 1535, he defended for the whole day, without
being defeated. This was, however, only a formal acade­
mical exercise, which did not necessarily imply any per­
* Hut.Ind. Sci., n. v. c. iii. sect 2. + Tcnneftian, ix. 420.
198 REVIEW OF 0PINI0N8 ON KNOWLEDGE.
manent conviction of the opinion thus expressed. But
his mind was really labouring to detect and remedy the
errours which he thus proclaimed. From him, as from
the other reformers of this time, we have an account ot
this mental struggle*. He says, in a work on this sub­
ject, “ I will candidly and simply explain how I was
delivered from the darkness of Aristotle. When, accord­
ing to the laws of our university, I had spent three years
and a half in the Aristotelian philosophy, and was now
invested with the philosophical laurel as a Master of
Arts, I took an account of the time which I had con­
sumed in this study; and considered on what subjects 1
should employ this logical art of Aristotle, which I had
learnt with so much labour and noise. I found it made
me not more versed in history or antiquities, more elo­
quent in discourse, more ready in verse, more wise in any
subject. Alas for me! how was I overpowered, how
deeply did I groan, how did I deplore my lot and my
nature, how did I deem myself to be by some unhappy
and dismal fate and frame of mind abhorrent from the
Muses, when I found that I was one who, after all my
pains, could reap no benefit from that wisdom of which
1 heard so much, as being contained in the Logic of
Aristotle.” He then relates, that he was led to the
study of the Dialogues of Plato, and was delighted with
the kind of analysis of the subjects discussed which
Socrates is there represented as executing. “ Well,” he
adds, “ I began thus to reflect within myself—(I should
have thought it impious to say it to another)— What, I
pray you, prevents me from socratizing; and from ask­
ing, without regard to Aristotle’s authority, whether
Aristotle’s Logic be true and correct ? It may be that
that philosopher leads us wrong; and if so, no wonder
that I cannot find in his books the treasure which is not
* Rami, Animadeertiones Ar\stotcUc<v, i. iv.
THEORETICAL REFORMERS OF SCIENCE. 19i)
there. What if his dogmas be mere figments? Do I
not tease and torment myself in vain, trying to get a
harvest from a barren soil ?” He convinced himself that
the Aristotelian logic was worthless: and constructed a
new system of Logic, founded mainly on the Platonic
process of exhausting a subject by analytical classification
of its parts. Both works, his Animadversions on A ris­
totle, and his Logic, appeared in 1543. The learned
world was startled and shocked to find a young man, on
his first entrance into life, condemning as faulty, falla­
cious, and useless, that part of Aristotle’s works which
had always hitherto been held as a masterpiece of philo­
sophical acuteness, and as the Organon of scientific rea­
soning. And in truth, it must be granted that Ramus
does not appear to have understood the real nature and
object of Aristotle’s Logic; while his own system could
not supply the place of the old one, and was not of much
real value. This dissent from the established doctrines
was, however, not only condemned but punished. The
printing and selling of his books was forbidden through
France; and Ramus was stigmatized by a sentence*
which declared him rash, arrogant, impudent, and igno­
rant, and prohibited from teaching logic and philosophy,
lie was, however, afterwards restored to the office o f
professor: and though much attacked, persisted in his
plan of reforming, not only Logic but Physics and Meta­
physics. He made his position still more dangerous by
adopting the reformed religion; and during the unhappy
civil wars of France, he was deprived of his professor­
ship, driven from Paris, and had his library plundered,
lie endeavoured, but in vain, to engage a German pro­
fessor, Schegk, to undertake the reform of the Aris­
totelian Physics; a portion of knowledge in which he
felt himself not to be strong. Unhappily for himself, he
* Sex1 H
u
t.I
n
d
. Set-, B. iv c. iv. sect. 4.
200 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
TI1E0HETICAL REFORMERS OF SCIENCE. 201
afterwards returned to Paris, where he perished in the
massacre of St. Bartholomew in 1572. '
Ramus's main objection to the Aristotelian Logic is,
that it is not the image of the natural process of thought;
an objection which shows little philosophical insight; for
the course by which we obtain knowledge may well differ
from the order in which our knowledge, when obtained,
is exhibited. We have already seen that Ramus's con­
temporaries, Caesalpinus and Campanella, had a wiser
view; placing definition as the last step in knowing, but
the first in teaching. But the effect which Ramus pro­
duced was by no means slight. He aided powerfully in
turning the minds of men to question the authority of
Aristotle on all points; and had many followers, espe­
cially among the Protestants. Among the rest, Milton,
our great poet, published “ Artis Logic® plenior Insti­
tute ad Petri Rami methodum but this
work, appearing in 1672, belongs to a succeeding period.
{The Reformers in general.)—It is impossible not to
be struck with the series of misfortunes which assailed
the reformers of philosophy of the period we have had
to review. Roger Bacon was repeatedly condemned and
imprisoned; and, not to speak of others who suffered
under the imputation of magical arts, Telesius is said*
to have been driven from Naples to his native city by
calumny and envy; Caesalpinus was accused of atheismf;
Campanella was imprisoned for twenty-seven years and
tortured; Giordano Bruno was burnt at Rome as a here­
tic; Ramus was persecuted during his life, and finally
murdered by his personal enemy Jacques Charpentier,
in a- massacre of which the plea was religion. It is true,
that for the most part these misfortunes were not prin­
cipally due to the attempts at philosophical reform, but
were connected rather with politics or religion. But we
• Tcnneman, ix. 200. f l b . ix. 100.
202 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
cannot doubt that the spirit which led men to assail the
received philosophy, might readily incline them to reject
some tenets of the established religion; since the bound­
ary line of these subjects is difficult to draw. And as
we have seen, there was in most of the persons of whom
we have spoken, not only a well-founded persuasion of
the defects of existing systems, but an eager spirit of
change, and a sanguine anticipation of some wide and
lofty philosophy, which was soon to elevate the minds
and conditions of men. The most unfortunate were, for
the most part, the least temperate and judicious reform­
ers. Patricius, who, as we have seen, declared himself
against the Aristotelian philosophy, lived and died at
Rome in peace and honour*.
{Melancthon.
)
—It is not easy to point out with pre­
cision the connexion between the efforts at a Reform in
Philosophy, and the great Reformation of Religion in the
sixteenth century. The disposition to assert (practically
at least) a freedom of thinking, and to reject the cor­
ruptions which tradition had introduced and authority
maintained, naturally extended its influence from one
subject to another; and especially in subjects so nearly
connected as theology and philosophy. The Protestants,
however, did not reject the Aristotelian system; they
only reformed it, by going back to the original works of
the author, and by reducing it to a conformity with
Scripture. In this reform, Melancthon was the chief
author, and wrote works on Logic, Physics, Morals, and
Metaphysics, which were used among Protestants. On
the subject of the origin of our knowledge, his views
contained a very philosophical improvement of the Aris­
totelian doctrines. He recognized the importance of
Ideas, as well as of Experience. “ We could not,” he saysf,
* Tcnneman, ix. 24(5.
t Melancthon, De Anima, p. 207, quoted in Tcnneman, ix. 121.
THEORETICAL REFORMERS OF SCIENCE. 203
“proceed to reason at all, except there were by nature
innate in man certain fixed points, that is, principles
of science;—as Number, the recognition of Order and
Proportion, logical, geometrical, physical and moral
Principles. Physical principles are such as these,—every­
thing which exists proceeds from a cause,—a body can­
not be in two places at once,—time is a continued series
of things or of motions,— and the like.” It is not
difficult to see that such Principles partake of the nature
of the Fundamental Ideas which we have attempted to
arrange and enumerate in a previous part of this work.
Before we proceed to the next chapter, which treats
of the Practical Reformers of Scientific Method, let us
for an instant look at the strong persuasion that the
time o f a philosophical revolution was at hand, implied
in the titles of the works of this period. Telesius
published De Rerum Natura propina princi­
pia; Francis Helmont, Philosopkia vulgaris ;
Patricius, Nova de Universis Philosopkia; Campanella,
Philosopkia sensibus demonstrata, adversus A ris-
totelis: Bruno professed himself the author of a Nolan
Philosophy; and Ramus of a New Logic. The age
announced itself pregnant; and the eyes of all who took
an interest in the intellectual fortunes of the race, were
looking eagerly for the expected offspring.
C h a p t e r X.
THE PRACTICAL REFORMERS OF SCIENCE.
Character of the Practical Reformers.—We now
come to a class of speculators who had perhaps a greater
share in bringing about the change from stationary to
progressive knowledge, than those writers who so loudly
announced the revolution. The mode in which the
philosophers of whom we now speak produced their im­
pressions on men’s minds, was very different from the
procedure of the theoretical reformers. What these
talked of they did; what these promised, they performed.
While the theorists concerning knowledge proclaimed
that great advances were to be made, the practical dis­
coverers went steadily forwards. While one class spoke
of a complete Reform of scientific Methods, the other,
boasting little, and often thinking little of Method, proved
the novelty of their instrument by obtaining new results.
While the metaphysicians were exhorting men to consult
experience and the senses, the physicists were examining
nature by such means with unparalleled success. And
while the former, even when they did for a moment
refer to facts, soon rushed back into their own region of
ideas, and tried at once to seize the widest generaliza­
tions, the latter, fastening their attention upon the phe­
nomena, and trying to reduce them to laws, were carried
forwards by steps measured and gradual, such as no
conjectural view of scientific method had suggested; but
leading to truths as profound and comprehensive as any
which conjecture had dared to anticipate. The theo­
retical reformers were bold, self-confident, hasty, con­
temptuous of antiquity, ambitious of ruling all future
speculations, as they whom they sought to depose had
ruled the past. The practical reformers were cautious,
modest, slow, despising no knowledge, whether borrowed
from tradition or observation, confident in the ultimate
triumph of science, but impressed with the conviction
that each single person could contribute a little only to
its progress. Yet though thus working rather than
speculating,—dealing with particulars more than with
generals, — employed mainly in adding to knowledge,
and not in defining what knowledge is. or how additions
2 0 4 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
PRACTICAL REFORMERS OF SCIENCE. 2 0 5
are to be made to it,—these men, thoughtful, curious,
and of comprehensive minds, were constantly led to
important views on the nature and methods of science.
And these views, thus suggested by reflections on their
own mental activity, were gradually incorporated with
the more abstract doctrines of the metaphysicians, and
had a most important influence in establishing an ini'
proved philosophy of science. The indications of such
views we must now endeavour to collect from the writ'
ings of the discoverers of the times preceding the seven'
teenth century.
Some of the earliest of these indications are to be
found in those who dealt with Art rather than with
Science. I have already endeavoured to show that the
advance of the arts which give us a command over the
powers of nature, is generally prior to the formation of
exact and speculative knowledge concerning those powers.
But Art, which is thus the predecessor of Science, is,
among nations of acute and active intellects, usually its
parent. There operates, in such a case, a speculative
spirit, leading men to seek for the reasons of that which
they find themselves able to do. How slowly, and with
what repeated deviations men follow this leading, when
under the influence of a partial and dogmatical philo*
sophy, the late birth and slow growth of sound physical
theory shows. But at the period of which we now
speak, we find men, at length, proceeding in obedience
to the impulse which thus drives them from practice to
theory; —from an acquaintance with phenomena to a
free and intelligent inquiry concerning their causes.
Leonardo da Vinci.— I have already noted, in the
History of Science, that the Indistinctness of Ideas,
which was long one main impediment to the progress of
science in the middle ages, was first remedied among
architects and engineers. These men, so far at least as
20G REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
mechanical ideas were concerned, were compelled by
their employments to judge rightly of the relations and
properties of the materials with which they had to deal;
and would have been chastised by the failure of their
works, if they had violated the laws of mechanical truth.
It was not wonderful, therefore, that these laws became
known to them first. We have seen, in the History,
that Leonardo da Vinci, the celebrated painter, who was
also an engineer, is the first writer in whom we find the
true view of the laws of equilibrium of the lever in the
most general case. This artist, a man of a lively and
discursive mind, is led to make some remarks* on the
formation of our knowledge, which may show the opi­
nions on that subject that already offered themselves at
the beginning of the sixteenth centuryf. He expresses
himself as follows:— “ Theory is the general, Experi­
ments are the soldiers. The interpreter of the artifices
of nature is Experience: she is never deceived. Our
judgment sometimes is deceived, because it expects effects
which Experience refuses to allow'.” And again, “ We
must consult Experience, and vary the circumstances till
we have drawn from them general rules; for it is she
who furnishes true rules. But of what use, you ask, are
these rules? I reply, that they direct us in the researches
of nature and the operations of art. They prevent our
imposing upon ourselves and others, by promising our­
selves results which we cannot obtain.”
“ In the study of the sciences which depend on mathe­
matics, those who do not consult nature but authors, are
not the children of nature, they are only her grand­
children. She is the true teacher of men of genius.
* II is works have never been published, and exist in manuscript in
tho library of the Institute at Paris. Some extracts were published
by Venturi, Essai m r les Outrages de Leonard da Vinci. Paris, 17^7-
i Leonardo died in 1520, at the age of 78.
PRACTICAL REFORMERS OF SCIENCE. 2 0 7
But see the absurdity of men ! They turn up their noses
at a man who prefers to learn from nature herself rather
than from authors who are only her clerks.”
In another place, in reference to a particular case, he
says, “Nature begins from the Reason and ends in Ex­
perience; but for all that, we must take the opposite
course; begin from the Experiment and try to discover
the Reason.”
Leonardo was bom forty-six years before Telesius;
yet we have here an estimate of the value of experience
far more just and substantial than the Calabrian school
ever reached. The expressions contained in the above
extracts, are well worthy our notice;—that experience is
never deceived;—that we must vary our experiments,
and draw from them general rules;—that nature is the
original source of knowledge, and books only a derivative
substitute;—with the lively image of the sons and grand­
sons of nature. Some of these assertions have been
deemed, and not without reason, very similar to those
made by Bacon a century later. Yet it is probable that
the import of such expressions, in Leonardo’s mind, was
less dear and definite than that which they acquired by
the progress of sound philosophy. When he says that
theory is the general and experiments the soldiers, he
probably meant that theory directs men what experiments
to make; and had not in his mind the notion of a theo­
retical Idea ordering and brigading the Facts. When he
says that Experience is the interpreter of Nature, we may
recollect, that in a more correct use of this image, Expe­
rience and Nature are the writing, and the Intellect of
man the interpreter. We may add, that the clear appre­
hension of the importance of Experience led, in this as in
other cases, to an unjust depreciation of the value of what
science owed to books. Leonardo would have made little
progress, if he had attempted to master a complex science,
astronomy for instance, by means of observation alone,
without the aid of books.
But in spite of such criticism, Leonardo’s maxims
show extraordinary sagacity and insight; and they appear
to us the more remarkable, when we see how rare such
views are for a century after his time.
Copernicus.—For we by no means find, even in those
practical discoverers to whom, in reality, the revolution
in science, and consequently in the philosophy of science,
was due, this prompt and vigorous recognition of the
supreme authority of observation as a ground of belief;
this bold estimate of the probable worthlessness of tradi­
tional knowledge; and this plain assertion of the reality
of theory founded upon experience. Among such dis­
coverers, Copernicus must ever hold a most distinguished
place. The heliocentric theory ofthe universe, established
by him with vast labour and deep knowledge, was, for the
succeeding century, the field of discipline and exertion
of all the most active speculative minds. Men, during
that time, proved their freedom of thought, their hopeful
spirit, and their comprehensive view, by adopting, incul­
cating, and following out the philosophy which this theory
suggested. But in the first promulgation of the theory,
in the works of Copernicus himself, we find a far more
cautious and reserved temper. He does not, indeed, give
up the reality of his theory, but he expresses himself so
as to avoid shocking those who might (as some afterwards
did) think it safe to speak of it as an hypothesis rather
than a truth. In his preface addressed to the Pope*,
after speaking of the difficulties in the old and received
doctrines, by which he was led to his own theory, he
says, “Hence I began to think of the mobility of the
earth; and although the opinion seemed absurd, yet be­
cause I knew that to others before me this liberty had
* Paul III., in 1543.
208 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
PRACTICAL REFORMERS OF SCIENCE. 2 0 9
been conceded, of imagining any kinds of circles in order
to explain the phenomena of the stars, I thought it would
also be readily granted me, that I might try whether, by
supposing the earth to be in motion, I might not arrive
at a better explanation than theirs, of the revolutions of
the celestial orbs.” Nor does he anywhere assert that
the seeming absurdity had become a certain truth, or
betray any feeling of triumph over the mistaken belief
of his predecessors. And, as I have elsewhere shown,
his disciples* indignantly and justly defended him from
the charge of disrespect towards Ptolemy and other an­
cient astronomers. Yet Copernicus is far from compro­
mising the value or evidence of the great truths which
he introduced to general acceptance; and from sinking
in his exposition of his discoveries below the temper
which had led to them. His quotation from Ptolemy,
that “ He who is to follow philosophy must be a freeman
in mind,” is a grand and noble maxim, which it well
became him to utter.
Fabricius.—In another of the great discoverers ofthis
period, though employed on a very different subject, we
discern much of the same temper. Fabricius of Acqua-
pendentef, the tutor and forerunner of our Harvey, and
one of that illustrious series of Paduan professors who
were the fathers of anatomyJ, exhibits something of the
same respect for antiquity, in the midst of his original
speculations. Thus in a dissertation $ On the Action of
the Joints, he quotes Aristotle's Mechanical Problems to
prove that in all animal motion there must be some
quiescent fulcrum; and finds merit even in Aristotle’s
ignorance. “ Aristotle,” he says ||, “ did not know that
motion was produced by the muscle; and after staggering
• H si. Ind. S c i B. v. c. ii. + Born 1537, died 1G19-
X Hist. Ind. Sci., B. x v ii. c. ii. sect. 1.
§ Fabricius, De Motu I/>cali, p. 182. || P. 199.
VOL. II. W. P. V
210 REVIEW OF OPINION8 ON KNOWLEDGE.
about from one supposition to another, at last is com­
pelled by the facts themselves to recur to an innate spirit,
which, he conceives, is contracted, and which pulls and
pushes. And here we cannot help admiring the genius
of Aristotle, who, though ignorant of the muscle, invents
something which produces nearly the same effect as the
muscle, namely, contraction and pulling.” He then,
with great acuteness, points out the distinction between
Aristotle’s opinions, thus favourably interpreted, and
those of Galen. In all this, we see something of the
wish to find all truths in the writings of the ancients,
but nothing which materially interferes with freedom of
inquiry. The anatomists have in all ages and countries
been practically employed in seeking knowledge from
observation. Facts have ever been to them a subject of
careful and profitable study; while the ideas which enter
into the wider truths of the science, are, as we have seen,
even still involved in obscurity, doubt, and contest.
Maurolycus.—Francis Maurolycus of Messana, whose
mathematical works were published in 1675, was one of
the great improvers of the science of optics in his time.
In his Preface to his Treatise on the Spheres, he speaks
of previous writers on the same subject; and observes
that as they have not superseded one another, they have
not rendered it unfit for any one to treat the subject
afresh. “ Yet,” he says, “ it is impossible to amend the
errours of all who have preceded us. This would be a task
too hard for Atlas, although he supports the heavens.
Even Copernicus is tolerated, who makes the sun to be
fixed, and the earth to move round it in a circle; and
who is more worthy of a whip or a scourge than of a
refutation.” The mathematicians and astronomers of that
time were not the persons most sensible of the progress
of physical knowledge ; for the bases of their science, and
a great part of its substance, were contained in the
PRACTICAL REFORMERS OF SCIENCE. 211
writings of the ancients; and till the time of Kepler,
Ptolemy’s work was, very justly, looked upon as includ­
ing all that was essential in the science.
Benedetti. — But the writers on Mechanics were
naturally led to present themselves as innovators and
experimenters; for all that the ancients had taught con­
cerning the doctrine of motion was erroneous; while
those who sought their knowledge from experiment,
were constantly led to new truths. John Baptist Bene­
detti, a Venetian nobleman, in 1599, published his
Spmdationum Liber, containing, among other matter, a
treatise on Mechanics, in which several of the Aristo­
telian errours were refuted. In the Preface to this
Treatise, he says, “ Many authors have written much,
and with great ability, on Mechanics; but since nature is
constantly bringing to light something either new, or
before unnoticed, I too wished to put forth a few things
hitherto unattempted, or not sufficiently explained.” In
the doctrine of motion he distinctly and at some length
condemns and argues against all the Aristotelian doctrines
concerning motion, weight, and many other fundamental
principles of physics. Benedetti is also an adherent of
the Copernican doctrine. He states* the enormous
velocity which the heavenly bodies must have, if the
earth be the centre of their motions; and adds, “ which
difficulty does not occur according to the beautiful theory
of the Samian Aristarchus, expounded in a divine man­
ner by Nicolas Copernicus; against which the reasons
alleged by Aristotle are of no weight.” Benedetti
throughout shows no want of the courage or ability which
were needed in order to rise in opposition against the
dogmas of the Peripatetics. He does not, however, refer
to experiment in a very direct manner; indeed most of
the facts on which the elementary truths of mechanics
* Spectdalionum Liber, p. 195.
P 2
rest, were known and admitted by the Aristotelians; and
therefore could not be adduced as novelties. On the con­
trary, he begins with dpriori maxims, w
would not have confirmed. “ Since,” he says*, “ we have
undertaken the task of proving that Aristotle is wrong in
his opinions concerning motion, there are certain absolute
truths, the objects of the intellect known of themselves,
which we must lay down in the first place.” And then,
as an example of these truths, he states this: “ Any two
bodies of equal size and figure, but of different materials,
will have their natural velocities in the same proportion
as their weights;” where by their natural velocities, he
means the velocities with which they naturally fall down­
wards.
Gilbert.—The greatest of these practical reformers
of science is our countryman, William Gilbert; if,
indeed, in virtue of the clear views of the prospects
which were then opening to science, and of the methods
by which her future progress was to be secured, while
he exemplified those views by physical discoveries, he
do not rather deserve the still higher praise of being
at the same time a theoretical and a practical reformer.
Gilbert’s physical researches and speculations were em­
ployed principally upon subjects on which the ancients
had known little or nothing; and on which therefore it
could not be doubtful whether tradition or observation
was the source of knowledge. Such was magnetism; for
the ancients were barely acquainted with the attractive
property of the magnet. Its polarity, including repulsion
as well as attraction, its direction towards the north, its
limited variation from this direction, its declination from
the horizontal position, were all modern discoveries.
Gilbert’s workf on the magnet and on the magnetism of
* Speculationum Liber, p. 169.
t Gulielmi G iltarti, Cofcestriensis, Medici Londinensis, De Mag-
212 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
PRACTICAL REFORMERS OF SCIENCE. 2 1 3
the earth, appeared in 1600; and in this, he repeatedly
maintains the superiority ofexperimental knowledge over
the physical philosophy of the ancients. His preface
opens thus: “ Since in making discoveries and searching
out the hidden causes of things, stronger reasons are
obtained from trustworthy experiments and demonstrable
arguments, than from probable conjectures and the dog­
mas of those wiho philosophize in the usual manner,” he
has, he says, “ endeavoured to proceed from common
magnetical experiments to the inward constitution of the
earth.” As I have stated in the History of Magnetism*, *
Gilbert’s work contains all the fundamental facts of that
science, so fully stated, that we have, at this day, little to
add to them. He is not, however, by the advance which
he thus made, led to depreciate the ancients, but only to
claim for himself the same liberty of philosophizing which
they had enjoyed +. “ To those ancient and first parents
of philosophy, Aristotle, Theophrastus, Ptolemy, Hippo­
crates, Galen, be all due honour; from them it was that
the stream of wisdom has been derived down to posterity.
But our age has discovered and brought to light many
things which they, if they were yet alive, would gladly
embrace. Wherefore we also shall not hesitate to ex­
pound, by probable hypotheses, those things which by
long experience we have ascertained.”
In this work the author not only adopts the Copernican
doctrine of the earth’s motion, but speaksJ of the con­
trary supposition as utterly absurd, founding his argu­
ment mainly on the vast velocities which such a suppo­
sition requires us to ascribe to the celestial bodies. Dr.
Gilbert was physician to Queen Elizabeth and to James
nete, Magneticisque Corporibus, et deMagno Mugue
logia Nova, plurimiset Argumentis et Experimentis demonstrata,
* Hist. Ind. ScL, B . x ii. c. i. + Prcf.
* De M
a
g
n
e
t
e
,L
ib. vi. c. 3 ,4 .
214 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
the First, and died in 1603. Sometime after his death
the executors ofhis brother published another work ofhis,
De Mundonostro Sublunari Philosophia Nova, in which
similar views are still more comprehensively presented.
In this he says, “ The two lords of philosophy, Aristotle
and Galen, are held in worship like gods, and rule the
schools;—the former by some destiny obtained a sway
and influence among philosophers, like that of his pupil
Alexander among the kings of the earth;—Galen, with
like success, holds his triumph among the physicians of
* Europe.” This comparison of Aristotle to Alexander
was also taken hold of by Bacon. Nor is Gilbert an
unworthy precursor of Bacon in the view he gives of the
History of Science, which occupies the first three chap­
ters of his Philosophy. He traces this history from “the
simplicity and ignorance of the ancients,” through “the
fabrication of the fable of the four elements,” to Aristotle
and Galen. He mentions with due disapproval the host
of commentators which succeeded, the alchemists, the
“ shipwreck of science in the deluge of the Goths,” and
the revival of letters and genius in the time of “our
grandfathers.” “This later age,” he says, “ has exploded
the Barbarians, and restored the Greeks and Latins to
their pristine grace and honour. It remains, that if they
have written aught in errour, this should be remedied by
better and more productive processes institu-
tis,) not to be contemned for their novelty; (for nothing
which is true is really new, but is perfect from eternity,
though to weak man it may be unknown;) and that thus
Philosophy may bear her fruit.” The reader of Bacon
will not fail to recognize, in these references to “ fruit­
bearing” knowledge, a similarity of expression with the
Novum Organon.
Bacon does not appear to me to have done justice to
his contemporary. He nowhere recognizes in the labours
PRACTICAL REFORMERS OF SCIENCE. 215
of Gilbert a community of purpose and spirit with his
own. On the other hand, he casts upon him a reflection
which he by no means deserves. In the Advancement
Learning*, he says, “Another errour is, that men have
used to infect their meditations, opinions, and doctrines,
with some conceits which they have most admired, or
some sciences to which they have most applied; and
given all things else a tincture according to them, utterly
untrue and unproper.........So have the alchemists made
a philosophy out of a few experiments of the furnace;
and Gilbertus, our countryman, hath made a philosophy
out of the observations of a loadstone,” (in the Latin,
philosophiam etiam e magnete elicuit.) And in the same
manner he mentions him in the Novum f, as
affording an example of an empirical kind of philosophy,
which appears to those daily conversant with the experi­
ments, probable, but to other persons incredible and
empty. But instead of blaming Gilbert for disturbing
and narrowing science by a too constant reference to
magnetical rules, we might rather censure Bacon, for not
seeing how important in all natural philosophy are those
laws o f attraction and repulsion of which magnetical
phenomena are the most obvious illustration. We may
find ground for such a judgment in another passage in
which Bacon speaks of Gilbert. In the Second Book J
of the Novum Organon, having classified motions, he
gives, as one kind, what he calls, in his figurative lan­
guage, motion fo r gain, or motion of need, by which a
body shuns heterogeneous, and seeks cognate bodies.
And he adds, “ The Electrical operation, concerning
which Gilbert and others since him have made up such
a wonderful story, is nothing less than the appetite of a
body, which, excited by friction, does not well tolerate
the air, and prefers another tangible body if it be found
* Nov, Org., Book i. + Book i. Aph. 64. J Vol. ix. 16;').
near.” Bacon’s notion of an appetite in the body is cer­
tainly much less philosophical than Gilbert’s, who speaks
of light bodies as drawn towards amber by certain ma­
terial radii*; and we might perhaps venture to say that
Bacon here manifests a want of clear mechanical ideas.
Bacon, too, showed his inferior aptitude for physical
research in rejecting the Copernican doctrine which
Gilbert adopted. In the Advancement of
suggesting a history of the opinions of philosophers, he
says that he would have inserted in it even recent
theories, as those of Paracelsus; of Telesius, who re­
stored the philosophy of Parmenides; or Patricius, who
resublimed the fumes of Platonism; or Gilbert, who
brought back the dogmas of Philolaus. But Bacon
quotes} with pleasure Gilbert’s ridicule of the Peripa­
tetics’definition of heat. They had said, that heat is that
which separates heterogeneous and unites homogeneous
matter; which, said Gilbert, is as if any one were to
define man as that which sows wheat and plants vines.
Galileo, another of Gilbert’s distinguished contem­
poraries, had a higher opinion of him. He says$, “I
extremely admire and envy this author. I think him
worthy of the greatest praise for the many new and
true observations which he has made, to the disgrace of
so many vain and fabling authors; who write, not from
their own knowledge only, but repeat everything they
hear from the foolish and vulgar, without attempting to
satisfy themselves of the same by experience; perhaps
that they may not diminish the size of their books.”
Galileo.—Galileo was content with the active and
successful practice of experimental inquiry; and did not
demand that such researches should be made expressly
* De Magncie, p. 60. t Book m. c. 4.
X Nov. O r g Book it. Aph. 48.
§ Drink water s Life of Galileo, p. 18.
216 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
Digitized by Googk
subservient to that wider and more ambitious philo­
sophy, on which the author of the Novum Organon
employed his powers. But still it now becomes our
business to trace those portions of Galileo’s views which
have reference to the theory, as well as the practice,
of scientific investigation. On this subject, Galileo did
not think more profoundly, perhaps, than several of his
contemporaries; but in the liveliness of expression and
illustration with which he recommended his opinions
on such topics, he was unrivalled. Writing in the lan­
guage of the people, in the attractive form of dialogue,
with clearness, grace, and wit, he did far more than
any of his predecessors had done to render the new
methods, results, and prospects of science familiar to a
wide circle of readers, first in Italy, and soon, all over
Europe. The principal points inculcated by him were
already becoming familiar to men of active and inquiring
minds; such as,—that knowledge was to be sought from
observation, and not from books;—that it was absurd
to adhere to, and debate about, the physical tenets of
Aristotle and the rest of the ancients. On persons who
followed this latter course, Galileo fixed the epithet of
Paper Philosophers*; because, as he wrote in a letter to
Kepler, this sort of men fancied that philosophy was to
be studied like the sEneid or Odyssee, and that the true
reading of nature was to be detected by the collation of
texts. Nothing so much shook the authority of the
received system of Physics as the experimental dis­
coveries, directly contradicting it, which Galileo made.
By experiment, as I have elsewhere statedf, he dis­
proved the Aristotelian doctrine that bodies fall quickly
or slowly in proportion to their weight. And when he
had invented the telescope, a number of new discoveries
of the most striking kind (the inequalities of the moon’s
• Life of Galileo, p. 9. + Hist. Tnd. S e t B. vi. c. ii. sect. 5.
PRACTICAL REFORMERS OF SCIENCE. 217
surface, the spots iu the sun, the moon-like phases of
Venus, the satellites of Jupiter, the ring of Saturn,)
showed, by the evidence of the eyes, how inadequate
were the conceptions, and how erroneous the doctrines
of the ancients, respecting the constitution of the uni­
verse. How severe the blow was to the disciples of the
ancient schools, we may judge by the extraordinary
forms of defence in which they tried to intrench them­
selves. They would not look through Galileo’s glasses;
they maintained that what was seen was an illusion of
witchcraft; and they tried, as Galileo says*, with logical
arguments, as if with magical incantations, to charm the
new planets out of the sky. No one could be better
fitted than Galileo for such a warfare. His great know­
ledge, clear intellect, gaiety, and light irony, (with the
advantage of being in the right,) enabled him to play
with his adversaries as he pleased. Thus when an Aris­
totelian t rejected the discovery of the irregularities in
the moon’s surface, because, according to the ancient
doctrine, her form was a perfect sphere, and held that
the apparent cavities were filled with an invisible crystal
substance; Galileo replied, that he had no objection to
assent to this, but that then he should require his ad­
versary in return to believe that there were on the same
surface invisible crystal mountains ten times as high as
those visible ones which he had actually observed and
measured.
We find in Galileo many thoughts which have since
become established maxims of modern philosophy.
“ Philosophy,” he saysj, “ is written in that great book,
I mean the Universe, which is constantly open before
our eyes; but it cannot be understood, except we first
know the language and learn the characters in which it
is written.” With this thought he combines some other
* Life of Galileo, p. 29, t l b p. 33. * II Saggiatorc, ii. 247-
218 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
PRACTICAL REFORMERS OF SCIENCE. 219
lively images. One of his interlocutors says concerning
another, “ Sarsi perhaps thinks that philosophy is a book
made up of the fancies of men, like the Iliad or Orlando
Furioso, in which the matter of least importance is, that
what is written be true.” And again, with regard to the
system of authority, he says, “ I think I discover in him
a firm belief that, in philosophizing, it is necessary to
lean upon the opinion of some celebrated author; as if
our mind must necessarily remain unfruitful and barren
till it be married to another man’s reason.”— “ No,” he
says, “ the case is not so.—When we have the decrees of
Nature, authority goes for nothing; reason is absolute*.”
In the course of Galileo’s controversies, questions of
the logic of science came under discussion. Vincenzio
di Grazia objected to a proof from induction which
Galileo adduced, because all the particulars were not
enumerated; to which the latter justly repliesf, that if
induction were required to pass through all the cases, it
would be either useless or impossible;—impossible when
the cases are innumerable; useless when they have each
already been verified, since then the general proposition
adds nothing to our knowledge.
One of the most novel of the characters which Science
assumes iu Galileo’s hands is, that she becomes cautious.
She not only proceeds leaning upon Experience, but she
is content to proceed a little way at a time. She already
begins to perceive that she must rise to the heights of
knowledge by many small and separate steps. The phi­
losopher is desirous to know much, but resigned to be
ignorant for a time of that which cannot yet be known.
Thus when Galileo discovered the true law of the motion
of a falling body}, that the velocity increases proportion­
ally to the time from the beginning of the fall, he did not
• II Saggiatore, u. 200. t Ib.y i. 501.
t Hist. Ind. S ci9B. vi. c. ii. sect 2.
insist upon immediately assigning the cause of this law.
“ The cause of the acceleration of the motions of falling
bodies is not,” he says, “a necessary part of the investi­
gation.” Yet the conception of this acceleration, as the
result of the continued action of the force of gravity upon
the falling body, could hardly fail to suggest itself to one
who had formed the idea of force. In like manner, the
truth that the velocities, acquired by bodies falling down
planes of equal heights, are all equal, was known to
Galileo and his disciples, long before he accounted for
it*, by the principle, apparently so obvious, that the
momentum generated is as the moving force which
generates it. He was not tempted to rush at once, from
an experimental truth to a universal system. Science
had learnt that she must move step by step; and the
gravity of her pace already indicated her approaching
maturity and her consciousness of the long path which
lay before her.
But besides the genuine philosophical prudence which
thus withheld Galileo from leaping hastily from one
inference to another, he had perhaps a preponderating
inclination towards facts; and did not feel, so much as
some other persons of his time, the need of reducing
them to ideas. He could bear to contemplate laws of
motion without being urged by an uncontrollable desire
to refer them to conceptions of force.
Kepler.—In this respect his friend Kepler differed
from him; for Kepler was restless and unsatisfied till he
had reduced facts to laws, and laws to causes; and never
acquiesced in ignorance, though he tested with the most
rigorous scrutiny that which presented itself in the shape
of knowledge to fill the void. It may be seen in the
History of Astronomyf with what perseverance, energy,
and fertility of invention, Kepler pursued his labours,
* M sl. Ind. Sci., B. vi. c. ii. sect. 4. + 76., B. v. c. iv. sect. 1.
220 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
PRACTICAL REFORMERS OF SCIENCE. 221
(enlivened and relieved by the most curious freaks of
fancy,) with a view of discovering the rules which regu­
late the motions of the planet Mars. He represents this
employment under the image of a warfare; and describes*
his object to be * to triumph over Mars, and to prepare
for him, as for one altogether vanquished, tabular prisons
and equated eccentric fe tte r sa n d when “ the enemy,
left at home a despised captive, had burst all the chains
of the equations, and broken forth of the prisons of the
ta b les— when “ it was buzzed here and there that the
victory is vain, and that the war is raging anew as vio­
lently as b efo re—that is, when the rules which he had
proposed did not coincide with the facts;—he by no
means desisted from his attempts, but “ suddenly sent
into the field a reserve of new physical reasonings on the
rout and dispersion of the veterans,” that is, tried new
suppositions suggested by such views as he then enter­
tained of the celestial motions. His efforts to obtain
the formal laws of the planetary motions resulted in
some of the most important discoveries ever made in
astronomy; and if his physical reasonings were for the
time fruitless, this arose only from the want of that dis­
cipline in mechanical ideas which the minds of mathe­
maticians had still to undergo; for the great discoveries
of Newton in the next generation showed that, in reality,
the next step of the advance was in this direction.
Among all Kepler’s fantastical expressions, the funda­
mental thoughts were sound and true; namely, that it
was his business, as a physical investigator, to discover a
mathematical rule which governed and included all the
special facts; and that the rules of the motions of the
planets must conform to some conception of causation.
The same characteristics,—the conviction of rule and
cause, perseverance in seeking these, inventiveness in
* De S
teil.M
art., p. iv. c. 51. (1609.) Drinkwater’s Kepler, p. 33.
devising hypotheses, love of truth in trying and rejecting
them, and a lively Fancy playing with the Reason with­
out interrupting her,—appear also in his work on Op­
tics; in which he tried to discover the exact law of
optical refraction*. In this undertaking he did not
succeed entirely; nor does he profess to have done so.
He ends his numerous attempts by saying, “ Now, reader,
you and I have been detained sufficiently long while I
have been attempting to collect into one fagot the mea­
sures of different refractions.”
In this and in other expressions, we see how clearly
he apprehended that colligation qf facts which is the
main business of the practical discoverer. And by his
peculiar endowments and habits, Kepler exhibits an
essential portion of this process, which hardly appears
at all in Galileo. In order to bind together facts, theory
is requisite as well as observation,—the cord as well as
the fagots. And the true theory is often, if not always,
obtained by trying several and selecting the right. Now
of this portion of the discoverer’s exertions, Kepler is
a most conspicuous example. His fertility in devising
suppositions, his undaunted industry in calculating the
results of them, his entire honesty and candour in resign­
ing them if these results disagreed with the facts, are a
very instructive spectacle; and are fortunately exhibited
to us in the most lively manner in his own garrulous
narratives. Galileo urged men by precept as well as
example to begin their philosophy from observation;
Kepler taught them by his practice that they must pro­
ceed from observation by means of hypotheses. The
one insisted upon facts; the other dealt no less copi­
ously with ideas. In the practical, as in the speculative
portion of our history, this antithesis shows itself; al­
though in the practical part we cannot have the two
• Published 1604. Hist. Ind. Sci., B. ix. c. ii.
222 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
PRACTICAL REFORMERS OF SCIENCE. 223
elements separated, as in the speculative we sometimes
have.
In the History of S
c
i
e
n
c
e
* ,I have devoted seve
pages to the intellectual character of Kepler, inasmuch
as his habit of devising so great a multitude of hypo­
theses, so fancifully expressed, had led some writers to
look upon him as an inquirer who transgressed the most
fixed rules of philosophical inquiry. This opinion has
arisen, I conceive, among those who have forgotten the
necessity of Ideas as well as Facts for all theory; or who
have overlooked the impossibility of selecting and expli­
cating our ideas without a good deal of spontaneous
play of the mind. It must, however, always be recol­
lected that Kepler’s genius and fancy derived all their
scientific value from his genuine and unmingled love of
truth. These qualities appeared, not only in the judg­
ment he passed upon hypotheses, but also in matters
which more immediately concerned his reputation. Thus
when Galileo’s discovery of the telescope disproved seve­
ral opinions which Kepler had published and strenu­
ously maintained, he did not hesitate a moment to
retract his assertions and range himself by the side of
Galileo, whom he vigorously supported in his warfare
against those who were incapable of thus cheerfully
acknowledging the triumph of new facts over their old
theories.
Tycho.— There remains one eminent astronomer, the
friend and fellow-labourer of Kepler, whom we must
not separate from him as one of the practical reformers
of science. I speak of Tycho Brahe, who is, I think, not
justly appreciated by the literary world in general, in
consequence of his having made a retrograde step in
that portion of astronomical theory which is most fa­
miliar to the popular mind. Though he adopted the
# Hist. Ind. Sci.y B. v. c. iv. sect. 1-
Copernican view of the motion of the planets about the
sun, he refused to acknowledge the annual and diurnal
motion of the earth. But notwithstanding this mistake,
into which he was led by his interpretation of Scripture
rather than of nature, Tycho must ever be one of the
greatest names in astronomy. In the philosophy of sci­
ence also, the influence of what he did is far from incon­
siderable ; and especially its value in bringing into notice
these two points:—that not only are observations the
beginning of science, but that the progress of science
may often depend upon the observer’s pursuing his task
regularly and carefully for a long time, and with well
devised instruments; and again, that observed facts offer
a successim of laws which we discover as our obser­
vations become better, and as our theories are better
adapted to the observations. With regard to the former
point, Tycho’s observatory was far superior to all that
had preceded it*, not only in the optical, but in the
mechanical arrangements; a matter of almost equal
consequence. And hence it was that his observations
inspired in Kepler that confidence which led him to all
his labours and all his discoveries. “ Since,” he sayst,
“ the divine goodness has given us in Tycho Brahe an
exact observer, from whose observations this errour'of
eight minutes in the calculations of the Ptolemaic hypo­
thesis is detected, let us acknowledge and make use of
this gift of God: and since this errour cannot be neg­
lected, these eight minutes alone have prepared the way
for an entire reform of Astronomy, and are to be the
main subject of this work.”
With regard to Tycho’s discoveries respecting the
moon, it is to be recollected that besides the first inequa­
lity of the moon’s motion, (the equation of the center,
arising from the elliptical form of her orbit,) Ptolemy
* Hist. hut. Sci., B. vii. c. vi. sect. 1. + De Stell. Mart., p. 11, c. 19.
224 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
PRACTICAL REFORMERS OF SCIENCE. 2 2 5
had discovered a second inequality, the erection, which,
as we have observed in the History of this subject*,
might have naturally suggested the suspicion that there
were still other inequalities. In the middle ages, how­
ever, such suggestions, implying a constant progress in
science, were little attended to ; and, we have seen, that
when an Arabian astronomerf had really discovered
another inequality of the moon, it was soon forgotten,
because it had no place in the established systems.
Tycho not only rediscovered the lunar inequality, (the
variation,) thus once before won and lost, but also two
other inequalities; namelyJ, the change of inclination
of the moon’s orbit as the line of nodes moves round,
and an inequality in the motion of the line of nodes.
Thus, as I have elsewhere said, it appeared that the dis­
covery of a rule is a step to the discovery of deviations
from that rule, which require to be expressed in other
rules. It became manifest to astronomers, and through
them to all philosophers, that in the application of theory
to observation, we find, not only the stated phenomena,
for which the theory dbes account, but also residual
phenomena, which are unaccounted for, and remain over
and above the calculation. And it was seen further,
that these residual phenomena might be, altogether or
in part, exhausted by new theories.
These were valuable lessons; and the more valuable
inasmuch as men were now trying to lay down maxims
and methods for the conduct of science. A revolution
was not only at hand, but had really taken place, in the
great body of real cultivators of science. The occasion
now required that this revolution should be formally
recognized;—that the new intellectual power should be
clothed with the forms of government;—that the new
* H itt. Ind. S c i B. ii. c. iv. sect. 6. t //>., sect. 8.
X Montucla, i. 566.
VOL. II. w . P. Q
philosophical republic should be acknowledged as a sister
state by the ancient dynasties of Aristotle and Plato.
There was needed some great Theoretical Reformer, to
speak in the name of the Experimental Philosophy ; to
lay before the world a declaration of its rights and a
scheme of its laws. And thus our eyes are turned to
Francis Bacon, and others who like him attempted this
great office. We quit those august and venerable names
of discoverers, whose appearance was the prelude and
announcement of the new state of things then opening ;
and in doing so, we may apply to them the language
which Bacon applies to himself* :—
\ a i p € T 6 K t j p v K € ï A io' ç n y y t X o i t ] $e
Hail Heralds, Messengers of Gods and Mon !
226 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
C h a p t e r XI.
FRA NCIS BACON.
1. It is a matter of some difficulty to speak of the
character and merits of this illustrious man, as regards
his place in that philosophical history with which we arc
here engaged. If we were to content ourselves with
estimating him according to the office which, as we have
just seen, he claims for himselff, as merely the harbinger
and announcer of a sounder method of scientific inquiry
than that which was recognized before him, the task
would be comparatively easy. For we might select from
his writings those passages in which he has delivered
opinions and pointed out processes, then novel and
strange, but since confirmed by the experience of actual
discoverers, and by the judgments of the wisest of sue-
• De A u g m Lib. i t . c. 1.
t And in other passages: thus, “ Ego enim buccinator tantum pug-
nam non ineo.” Nov. O r g Lib. iv. c. I.
FRANCIS BACON. 2 2 7
ceeding philosophers; and we might pass by, without
disrespect, but without notice, maxims and proposals
which have not been found available for use;—views so
indistinct and vague, that we are even yet unable to
pronounce upon their justice;—and boundless anticipa­
tions, dictated by the sanguine hopes of a noble and
comprehensive intellect. But if we thus reduce the phi­
losophy of Bacon to that portion which the subsequent
progress of science has rigorously verified, we shall have
to pass over many of those declarations which have ex­
cited most notice in his writings, and shall lose sight of
many of those striking thoughts which his admirers most
love to dwell upon. For he is usually spoken of, at
least in this country, as a teacher who not only com­
menced, but in a great measure completed, the Philo­
sophy of Induction. He is considered, not only as having
asserted some general principles, but laid down the spe­
cial rules of scientific investigation; as not only one of
the Founders, but the supreme Legislator of the modern
Republic of Science; not only the Hercules who slew
the monsters that obstructed the earlier traveller, but
the Solon who established a constitution fitted for all
future time.
2. Nor is it our purpose to deny that of such praise
he deserves a share which, considering the period at
which he lived, is truly astonishing. But it is necessary
for us in this place to discriminate and select that por­
tion of his system which, bearing upon physical science,
has since been confirmed by the actual history of science.
Many of Bacon’s most impressive and captivating pas­
sages contemplate the extension of the new methods of
discovering truth to intellectual, to moral, to political,
as well as to physical science. And how far, and how,
the advantages of the inductive method may be secured
for those important branches of speculation, it will at
Q2
some future time be a highly interesting task to examine.
But our plan requires us at present to omit the con­
sideration of these; for our purpose is to learn what the
genuine course of the formation of science is, by tracing
it in those portions of human knowledge, which, by the
confession of all, are most exact, most certain, most com­
plete. Hence we must here deny ourselves the dignity
and interest which float about all speculations in which
the great moral and political concerns of men are in­
volved. It cannot be doubted that the commanding
position which Bacon occupies in men’s estimation arises
from his proclaiming a reform in philosophy of so com­
prehensive a nature;—a reform which was to infuse a
new spirit into every part of knowledge. Physical Sci­
ence has tranquilly and noiselessly adopted many of his
suggestions; which were, indeed, her own natural im­
pulses, not borrowed from him; and she is too deeply
and satisfactorily absorbed in contemplating her results,
to talk much about the methods of obtaining them which
she has thus instinctively pursued. But the philosophy
which deals with mind, with manners, with morals, with
polity, is conscious still of much obscurity and perplexity;
and would gladly borrow aid from a system in which aid
is so confidently promised. The aphorisms and phrases
of the Novum Organon are far more frequently quoted
by metaphysical, ethical, and even theological writers,
than they are by the authors of works on physics.
3. Again, even as regards physics, Bacon’s fame rests
upon something besides the novelty of the maxims which
he promulgated. That a revolution in the method of
scientific research was going on, all the greatest phy­
sical investigators of the sixteenth century were fully
aware, as we have shown in the last chapter. But their
writings conveyed this conviction to the public at large
somewhat slowly. Men of letters, men of the world, men
2 2 8 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
FRANCIS BACON. 2 2 9
of rank, did not become familiar with the abstruse works
in which these views were published; and above all,
they did not, by such occasional glimpses as they took
of the state of physical science, become aware of the
magnitude and consequences of this change. But Bacon’s
lofty eloquence, wide learning, comprehensive views,
bold pictures of the coming state of things, were fitted
to make men turn a far more general and earnest gaze
upon the passing change. When a man of his acquire­
ments, of his talents, of his rank and position, of his
gravity and caution, poured forth the strongest and
loftiest expressions and images which his mind could
supply, in order to depict the “ Great Instauration”
which he announced;—in order to contrast the weak­
ness, the blindness, the ignorance, the wretchedness,
under which men had laboured while they followed the
long beaten track, with the light, the power, the pri­
vileges, which they were to find in the paths to which
he pointed;—it was impossible that readers of all classes
should not have their attention arrested, their minds
stirred, their hopes warmed; and should not listen with
wonder and with pleasure to the strains of prophetic
eloquence in which so great a subject was presented.
And when it was found that the prophecy was verified;
when it appeared that an immense change in the methods
of scientific research really had occurred;—that vast
additions to man’s knowledge and power had been ac­
quired, in modes like those which had been spoken o f;
— that further advances might be constantly looked
for;—and that a progress, seemingly boundless, was
going on in the direction in which the seer had thus
pointed;—it was natural that men should hail him as
the leader of the revolution; that they should identify
him with the event which he was the first to announce;
that they should look upon him as the author of that
2 3 0 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
which he had, as they perceived, so soon and so
thoroughly comprehended.
4. For we must remark, that although (as we have
seen) he was not the only, nor the earliest writer, who
declared that the time was come for such a change, he
not only proclaimed it more emphatically, but under­
stood it, in its general character, much more exactly,
than any of his contemporaries. Among the maxims,
suggestions and anticipations which he threw out, there
were many of which the wisdom and the novelty were
alike striking to his immediate successors;—there are
many which even now, from time to time, we find fresh
reason to admire, for their acuteness and justice. Bacon
stands far above the herd of loose and visionary spe­
culators who, before and about his time, spoke of the
establishment of new philosophies. If we must select
some one philosopher as the Hero of the revolution in
scientific method, beyond all doubt Francis Bacon must
occupy the place of honour.
We shall, however, no longer dwell upon these gene­
ral considerations, but shall proceed to notice some of
the more peculiar and characteristic features of Bacon’s
philosophy; and especially those views, which, occurring
for the first time in his writings, have been fully illus­
trated and confirmed by the subsequent progress of
science, and have become a portion of the permanent
philosophy of our times.
5. (I.) The first great feature which strikes us in
Bacon’s philosophical views is that which we have already
noticed;—his confident and efnphatic announcement of
a NewEra in the progress of science, compared with
which the advances of former times were poor and tri­
fling. This w
’as with Bacon no loose and shallow opinion,
taken up on light grounds and involving only vague
general notions. He had satisfied himself of the justice
FRANCIS BACON. 2 31
of such a view by a laborious course of research and
reflection. In 1605, at the age of forty-four, he pub­
lished his Treatise of the Advancement of Learning, in
which he takes a comprehensive and spirited survey of
the condition of all branches of knowledge which had
been cultivated up to that time. This work was com­
posed with a view to that reform of the existing philo­
sophy which Bacon always had before his eyes; and in
the Latin edition of his works, forms the First Part of
the InstauratioMagna. In the Second Part of the
Instauratio, the Novum Organon, published in 1620, he
more explicitly and confidently states his expectations
on this subject. He points out how slightly and feebly
the examination of nature had been pursued up to his
time, and with what scanty fruit. He notes the indica­
tions of this in the very limited knowledge of the Greeks
"who had till then been the teachers of Europe, in the com­
plaints of authors concerning the subtilty and obscurity
of the secrets of nature, in the dissensions of sects, in the
absence of useful inventions resulting from theory, in the
fixed form which the sciences had retained for two thou­
sand years. Nor, he adds *, is this wonderful; for how
little of his thought and labour has man bestowed upon
science! Out of twenty-five centuries scarce six have
been favourable to the progress of knowledge. And even
in those favoured times, natural philosophy received the
smallest share of man’s attention; while the portion so
given was marred by controversy and dogmatism; and
even those who have bestowed a little thought upon
this philosophy, have never made it their main study,
but have used it as a passage or drawbridge to serve
other objects. And thus, he says, the great Mother of
the Sciences is thrust down with indignity to the offices
of a handmaid; is made to minister to the labours of
* Lib. i. Apiior. 78 et scq.
232 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
medicine or mathematics, or to give the first preparatory
tinge to the immature minds of youth. For these and
similar considerations of the errours of past time, he
draws hope for the future, employing the same argu­
ment which Demosthenes uses to the Athenians: “ That
which is worst in the events of the past, is the best as a
ground of trust in the future. For if you had done all
that became you, and still had been in this condition,
your case might be desperate; but since your failure is
the result of your own mistakes, there is good hope that,
correcting the errour of your course, you may reach a
prosperity yet unknown to you.”
6. (II.) All Bacon’s hope of improvement indeed was
placed in an entire change of the Method by which science
was pursued; and the boldness, and at the same time,
(the then existing state of science being considered) the
definiteness of his views of the change that was requisite
are truly remarkable.
That all knowledge must begin with observation, is
one great principle of Bacon’s philosophy; but I hardly
think it necessary to notice the inculcation of this maxim
as one of his main services to the cause of sound know­
ledge, since it had, as we have seen, been fully insisted
upon by others before him, and was growing rapidly into
general acceptance without his aid. But if he was not
the first to tell men that they must collect their know­
ledge from observation, he had no rival in his peculiar
office of teaching them how science must thus be gathered
from experience.
It appears to me that by far the most extraordinary
parts of Bacon’s works are those in which, with extreme
earnestness and clearness, he insists upon a graduated and
successive induction, as opposed to a hasty transit from
special facts to the highest generalizations. The nine­
teenth Axiom of the First Book of the Novum Ch’
ganon
FRANCIS BACON. 2 3 3
contains a view of the nature of true science most exact
and profound; and, so far as I am aware, at the time
perfectly new. “ There are two ways, and can only be
two, of seeking and finding truth. The one, from sense
and particulars, takes a flight to the most general axioms,
and from those principles and their truth, settled once
for all, invents and judges of intermediate axioms. The
other method collects axioms from sense and particulars,
ascending continuously and by , so that in the end
it arrives at the most general axioms ; this latter way is
the true one, but hitherto untried.”
It is to be remarked, that in this passage Bacon em­
ploys the term axioms to express any propositions col­
lected from facts by induction, and thus fitted to become
the starting-point of deductive reasonings. How far pro­
positions so obtained may approach to the character of
axioms in the more rigorous sense of the term, we have
already in some measure examined ; but that question
does not here immediately concern us. The truly remark­
able circumstance is to find this recommendation of a
continuous advance from observation, by limited steps,
through successive gradations of generality, given at a
time when speculative men in general had only just
begun to perceive that they must begin their course
from experience in some way or other. How exactly
this description represents the general structure of the
soundest and most comprehensive physical theories, all
persons who have studied the progress of science up to
modern times can bear testimony; but perhaps this
structure of science cannot in any other way be made so
apparent as by those Tables of successive generalizations
in which we have exhibited the history and constitution
of some of the principal physical sciences, in the Chapter
of the preceding Book which treats of the Logic of
Induction. And the view which Bacon thus took of the
2 3 4 KEVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
true progress of science was not only new, but, so far as
I am aware, has never been adequately illustrated up to
the present day.
7. It is true, as I observed in the last chapter, that
Galileo had been led to see the necessity, jiot only of
proceeding from experience in the pursuit of knowledge,
but of proceeding cautiously and gradually; and he had
exemplified this rule more than once, when, having made
one step in discovery, he held back his foot, for a time,
from the next step, however tempting. But Galileo had
not reached this wide and commanding view of the suc­
cessive subordination of many steps, all leading up at
last to some wide and simple general truth. In catch­
ing sight of this principle, and in ascribing to it its
due importance, Bacon’s sagacity, so far as I am aware,
wrought unassisted and unrivalled.
8. Nor is there any wavering or vagueness in Bacon’s
assertion of this important truth. He repeats it over and
over again; illustrates it by a great number of the most
lively metaphors and emphatic expressions. Thus he
speaks of the successive floors ( of induction;
and speaks of each science as a * which has
observation and experience for its basis. No images
can better exhibit the relation of general and parti­
cular truths, as our own Inductive Tables may serve
to show.
9. (III.) Again; not less remarkable is his contrasting
this true Method of Science (while it was almost, as he
says, yet untried) with the ancient and vicious ,
which began, indeed, with facts of observation, but rushed
* Aug. Sc.yLib. in. c. 4. p. 194. So in other places, as Nov. O r g r.
Aphorism 104. u De scientiis turn demuni bene sperandum est quan­
go per scal&ni veram et per gradus continuos, et non intermissos aut
hiulcos a particularibus asccndctur ad axiomata minora, et deinde ad
media, alia aliis euperiora, et postremo deinum ad generalise!ma.”
FRANCIS BACON. 2 3 5
at once, and with no gradations, to the most general
principles. For this was the course which had been
actually followed by all those speculative reformers who
had talked so loudly of the necessity of beginning our
philosophy from experience. All these men, if they
attempted to frame physical doctrines at all, had caught
up a few facts of observation, and had erected a universal
theory upon the suggestions which these offered. This
process of illicit generalization, or, as Bacon terms it,
Anticipation of Nature (anticipatio ), in opposi­
tion to the Interpretation of Nature, he depicts with
singular acuteness, in its character and causes. “ These
two ways,” he says * “ both begin from sense and parti­
culars ; but their discrepancy is immense. The one
merely skims over experience and particulars in a cur­
sory transit; the other deals with them in a due and
orderly manner. The one, at its very outset, frames
certain general abstract principles, but useless; the other
gradually rises to those principles which have a real
existence in nature.”
“ The former path,” he addsf, “that of illicit and
hasty generalization, is one which the intellect follows
when abandoned to its owm impulse; and this it does
from the requisitions of logic. For the mind has a yearn­
ing which makes it dart forth to generalities, that it may
have something to rest in ; and after a little dallying with
experience, becomes weary of it ; and all these evils are
augmented by logic, which requires these generalities to
make a show with in its disputations.”
“ In a sober, patient, grave intellect,” he further adds,
“the mind, by its owm impulse, (and more especially if
it be not impeded by the sway of established opinions)
attempts in some measure that other and true way, of
gradual generalization; but this it does with small profit;
* Not. O
r
g
.
, i
. Aph. 22. + Aph. 20.
for the intellect, except it be regulated and aided, is a
faculty of unequal operation, and altogether unapt to
master the obscurity of things.”
The profound and searching wisdom of these remarks
appears more and more, as we apply them to the various
attempts which men have made to obtain knowledge;
when they begin with the contemplation of a few facts,
and pursue their speculations, as upon most subjects
they have hitherto generally done; for almost all such
attempts have led immediately to some process of illicit
generalization, which introduces an interminable course
of controversy. In the physical sciences, however, we
have the further inestimable advantage of seeing the
other side of the contrast exemplified: for many of
them, as our Inductive Tables show us, have gone on
according to the most rigorous conditions of gradual
and successive generalization; and in consequence of
this circumstance in their constitution, possess, in each
part of their structure, a solid truth, which is always
ready to stand the severest tests of reasoning and ex­
periment.
We see how justly and clearly Bacon judged con­
cerning the mode in which facts are to be employed in
the construction of science. This, indeed, has ever been
deemed his great merit: insomuch that many persons
appear to apprehend the main substance of his doctrine
to reside in the maxim that facts of observation, and
such facts alone, are the essential elements of all true
science.
10. (IV.) Yet we have endeavoured to establish the
doctrine that facts are but one of two ingredients o f
knowledge both equally necessary;—that Ideas are no
less indispensable than facts themselves; and that except
these be duly unfolded and applied, facts are collected in
vain, lias Bacon then neglected this great portion o f
2 3 6 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
FRANCIS BACON. 2 3 7
his subject ? Has he been led by some partiality of view,
orsome peculiarity of circumstances, to leave this curious
and essential element of science in its pristine obscurity ?
Was he unaware of its interest and importance ?
We may reply that Bacon’s philosophy, in its effect
upon his readers in general, does give due weight or
due attention to the ideal element of our knowledge.
He is considered as peculiarly and eminently the asserter
of the value of experiment and observation. He is
always understood to belong to the experiential, as
opposed to the ideal school. He is held up in contrast
to Plato and others who love to dwell upon that part
of knowledge which has its origin in the intellect of
man.
11. Nor can it be denied that Bacon has, in the
finished part of his Novum put prominently
forwards the necessary dependence of all our knowledge
upon Experience, and said little of its dependeuce, equally
necessary, upon the Conceptions which the intellect itself
supplies. It will appear, however, on a close examination,
that he was by no means insensible or careless of this
internal element of all connected speculation. He held
the balance, with no partial or feeble hand, between
phenomena and ideas. He urged the Colligation of
Facts, but he was not the less aware of the value of the
Explication of Conceptions.
12. This appears plainly from some remarkable Apho­
risms in the Novum Organum. Thus, in noticing the
causes of the little progress then made by science, he
states this:—“ In the current Notions, all is unsound,
whether they be logical or physical. Substance, quality,
action, passion, even being, are not good Conceptions; still
less are heavy, light, dense, rare, moist, dry, generation,
corruption, attraction, repulsion, element, matter, form,
and others of that kind; all are fantastical and ill-defined.”
2 3 8 KEVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
And in his attempt to exemplify his own system, he hesi­
tates* in accepting or rejecting the notions of elementary,
celestial, rare, as belonging to fire, since, as he says, they
are vague and ill-defined notions ( vagae nec bene
ten'minatoe). In that part of his work which appears to
be completed, there is not, so far as I have noticed, any
attempt to fix and define any notions thus complained of
as loose and obscure. But yet such an undertaking ap­
pears to have formed part of his plan; and in the Abece-
darium N
a
t
u
r
a
e
f, which consists of the heads of various
portions of his great scheme, marked by letters of the
alphabet, we find the titles of a series of dissertations
*
*On the Conditions of Beings,” which must have had for
their object the elucidation of divers Notions essential to
science, and which would have been contributions to the
Explication of Conceptions, such as we have attempted
in a former part of this work. Thus some of the subjects
of these dissertations are;—Of Much and Little;—Of
Durable and Transitory;—Of Natural and Monstrous;—
Of Natural and Artificial. When the philosopher of
induction came to discuss these, considered as conditions
of existence, he could not do other than develope, limit,
methodize, and define the Ideas involved in these Notions,
so as to make them consistent with themselves, and a fit
basis of demonstrative reasoning. His task would have
been of the same nature as ours has been, in that part
of this work which treats of the Fundamental Ideas of
the various classes of sciences.
13. Thus Bacon, in his speculative philosophy, took
firmly hold of both the handles of science; and if he had
completed his scheme, would probably have given due
attention to Ideas, no less than to Facts, as an element
of our knowledge; while in his view of the general
* Nov. O r y Lib. n. Aph. 19.
t Inst. Mag., Par. in. (Vol. vm. p. 244.)
FRANCIS BACON.
method ofascending from facts to principles, he displayed
a sagacity truly wonderful. But we cannot be surprized,
that in attempting to exemplify the method which he
recommended, he should have failed. For the method
could be exemplified only by some important discovery
is physical science; and great discoveries, even with the
most perfect methods, do not come at command. More­
over although the general structure of his scheme was
correct, the precise import of some of its details could
hardly be understood, till the actual progress of science
had made men somewhat familiar with the kind of steps
which it included.
14. (V.) Accordingly, Bacon’s Inquisition into the
Nature of H
e
a
t
, which is given in the Second Book of
the Novum, Organon as an example of the mode of inter­
rogating Nature, cannot be looked upon otherwise than
as a complete failure. This will be evident if we con­
sider that, although the exact nature of heat is still an
obscure and controverted matter, the science of Heat
now consists of many important truths; and that to none
of these truths is there any approximation in Bacon’s
essay. From his process he arrives at this, as the “ forma
or true definition” of heat;—“ that it is an expansive,
restrained motion, modified in certain ways, and exerted in
the smaller particles of the body.” But the steps by which
the science of Heat really advanced were, (as may be seen
in the history* of the subject,) these;—The discovery
of a measure of heat or temperature (the thermometer);
The establishment of the laws of conduction and radia­
tion ; of the laws of specific heat, latent heat, and the
like. Such steps have led to Ampere’s +, that
heat consists in the vibrations of an imponderable fluid;
and to Laplace’s hypothesis, that temperature consists in
the internal radiation of such a fluid. These hypotheses
• Hist. Ind. Sci., B. x. c. i. t //>., c. iv.
2 4 0 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
cannot yet be said to be even probable; but at least they
are so modified as to include some of the preceding laws
which are firmly established; whereas Bacons hypo­
thetical motion includes no l^ws of phenomena, explains
no process, and is indeed itself an example of illicit
generalization.
15. One main ground of Bacon’s ill fortune in this
undertaking appears to be, that he was not aware of an
important maxim of inductive science, that we must first
obtain the measure and ascertain the laics of phenomena,
before we endeavour to discover their causes. The whole
history of thermotics up to the present time has been
occupied with the former step, and the task is not yet
completed: it is no wonder, therefore, that Bacon failed
entirely, when he so prematurely attempted the second.
His sagacity had taught him that the progress of science
must be gradual; but it had not led him to judge ade­
quately how gradual it must be, nor of what different
kinds of inquiries, taken in due order, it must needs con­
sist, in order to obtain success.
Another mistake, which could not fail to render it
unlikely that Bacon should really exemplify his precepts
by any actual advance in science, was, that he did not
justly appreciate the sagacity, the inventive genius, which
all discovery requires. He conceived that he could
supersede the necessity of such peculiar endowments.
“ Our method of discovery in science,” he says*, “ is of
such a nature, that there is not much left to acuteness
and strength of genius, but all degrees of genius and
intellect are brought nearly to the same level.” And he
illustrates this by comparing his method to a pair of
compasses, by means of which a person with no manual
skill may draw a perfect circle. In the same spirit he
speaks of proceeding by due rejections; and appears to
* Nor. Or/7., Lib. i. Aph. 61.
FRANCIS BACON. 241
imagine that when we have obtained a collection of facts,
if we go on successively rejecting what is false, we shall
at last find that we have, left in our hands, that scientific
truth which we seek. I need not observe how far this
view is removed from the real state of the case. The
necessity of a conception which must be furnished by the
mind in order to bind together the facts, could hardly
have escaped the eye of Bacon, if he had cultivated more
carefully the ideal side of his own philosophy. And any
attempts which he could have made to construct such
conceptions by mere rule and method, must have ended
in convincing him that nothing but a peculiar inventive
talent could supply that which was thus not contained in
the facts, and yet was needed for the discovery.
16. (VI.) Since Bacon, with all his acuteness, had
not divined circumstances so important in the formation
of science, it is not wonderful that his attempt to reduce
this process to a Technical Form is of little value. In
the first place, he says*, we must prepare a natural and
experimental history, good and sufficient; in the next
place, the instances thus collected are to be arranged in
Tables in some orderly way; and then we must apply a
legitimate and true induction. And in his example t, he
first collects a great number of cases in which heat
appears under various circumstances, which he calls “ a
Muster of Instances before the intellect,” (
instantiarum ad intellectum,) or a Table of the Presence
of the thing sought. He then adds a Table of its Ab­
sence in proximate cases, containing instances where
heat does not appear; then a 1'able of , in which
it appears with greater or less intensity. He then addsJ,
that we must try to exclude several obvious suppositions,
which he does by reference to some of the instances he
• Nor.Org., Lib. u. Aph. 10. t Aph. 11.
t Aph. 15. p. 105.
V O L . I I . W . P . R
2 4 2 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
has collected; and this step he calls the Exclusive, or
the Rejection 0
/ Natures. He then observes, (and justly,)
that whereas truth emerges more easily from errour than
from confusion, we may, after this preparation, give play
to the intellect, (fiat permissio intellectus,) and make an
attempt at induction, liable afterwards to be corrected;
and by this step, which he terms his First Vindemiation,
or Inchoate Induction, he is led to the proposition con­
cerning heat, which we have stated above.
17. In all the details of his example he is unfor­
tunate. By proposing to himself to examine at once
into the nature of heat, instead of the laws of special
classes of phenomena, he makes, as we have said, a fun­
damental mistake; which is the less surprizing since he
had before him so few examples of the right course in
the previous history of science. But further, his collec­
tion of instances is very loosely brought together; for he
includes in his list the hot taste of aromatic plants, the
caustic effects of acids, and many other facta which can­
not be ascribed to heat without a studious laxity in the
use of the word. And when he comes to that point
where he permits his intellect its range, the conception
of motion upon which it at once fastens, appears to be
selected with little choice or skill, the suggestion being
taken from flame*, boiling liquids, a blown fire, and
some other cases. If from such examples we could
imagine heat to be motion, we ought at least to have
some gradation to cases of heat where no motion is visi­
ble, as in a red-hot iron. It would seem that, after a
large collection of instances had been looked at, the
intellect, even in its first attempts, ought not to have
dwelt upon such an hypothesis as this.
18. After these steps, Bacon speaks of several classes
of instances which, singling them out of the general and
* Page 110.
FRANCIS BACON. 2 4 3
indiscriminate collection of facts, he terras Instances
mth Prei'ogative; and these he points out as peculiar
aids and guides to the intellect in its task. These In­
stances with Prerogative have generally been much
dwelt upon by those who have commented on the Novum
Organon. Yet, in reality, such a classification, as has
been observed by one of the ablest writers of the pre­
sent day*, is of little service in the task of induction.
For the instances are, for the most part, classed, not
according to the ideas which they involve, or to any
obvious circumstance in the facts of which they consist,
but according to the extent or manner of their influence
upon the inquiry in which they are employed. Thus we
have Solitary Instances, Migrating Instances, Ostensive
Instances, Clandestine Instances, so termed according to
the degree in which they exhibit, or seem to exhibit, the
property whose nature we would examine. We have
Guide-Post Instances, (Instantice Crucis,) Instances of
the Parted Road, of the Doorway, of the Lamp, accord­
ing to the guidance they supply to our advance. Such
a classification is much of the same nature as if, having
to teach the art of building, we were to describe tools
with reference to the amount and place of the work
which they must do, instead of pointing out their con­
struction and use:—as if we were to inform the pupil
that we must have tools for lifting a stone up, tools for
moving it sideways, tools for laying it square, tools for
cementing it firmly. Such an enumeration of ends would
convey little instruction as to the means. Moreover,
many of Bacon’s classes of instances are vitiated by the
assumption that the “ form,” that is, the general law and
cause of the property which is the subject of investi­
gation, is to be looked for directly in the instances;
* Herechel, On the Study of Nat. Phil., Art. 192.
R 2
2 4 4 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
which, as we have seen in his inquiry concerning heat,
is a fundamental errour.
19. Yet his phraseology in some cases, as in the
instantia crucis, serves well to mark the place which
certain experiments hold in our reasonings: and many
of the special examples which* he gives are full of acute­
ness and sagacity. Thus he suggests swinging a pen­
dulum in a mine, in order to determine whether the
attraction of the earth arises from the attraction of its
parts; and observing the tide at the same moment in
different parts of the world, in order to ascertain whether
the motion of the water is expansive or progressive;
with other ingenious proposals. These marks of genius
may serve to counterbalance the unfavourable judgment
of Bacon’s aptitude for physical science which we are
sometimes tempted to form, in consequence of his false
views on other points; as his rejection of the Copernican
system, and his undervaluing Gilbert’s magnetical specu­
lations. Most of these errours arose from a too ambi­
tious habit of intellect, which would not be contented
with any except very wide and general truths; and from
an indistinctness of mechanical, and perhaps, in general,
of mathematical ideas:—defects which Bacon’s own phi­
losophy was directed to remedy, and which, in the pro­
gress of time, it has remedied in others.
20. (VII.) Having thus freely given our judgment
concerning the most exact and definite portion of Bacon’s
precepts, it cannot be necessary for us to discuss at any
length the value of those more vague and general Warn­
ings against prejudice and partiality, against intellectual
indolence and presumption, with which his works abound.
His advice and exhortations of this kind are alwavs ex-
ft
pressed with energy and point, often clothed in the hap­
piest forms of imagery; and hence it has come to pass,
that such passages are perhaps more familiar to the
FRANCIS BACON. 2 4 5
general reader than any other parts of his writings. Nor
are Bacon’s counsels without their importance, when we
have to do with those subjects in which prejudice and
partiality exercise their peculiar sway. Questions of
politics and morals, of manners, taste, or history, cannot
be subjected to a scheme of rigorous induction; and
though on such matters we venture to assert general
principles, these are commonly obtained with some de­
gree of insecurity, and depend upon special habits of
thought, not upon mere logical connexion. Here, there­
fore, the intellect may be perverted, by mixing, with the
pure reason, our gregarious affections, or our individual
propensities; the false suggestions involved in language,
or the imposing delusions of received theories. In these
dim and complex labyrinths of human thought, Idol
of the Tribe, or q f the Den, of the Foinim, or of the -
tre, may occupy men’s minds with delusive shapes, and
may obscure or pervert their vision of truth. But in that
Natural Philosophy with which we are here concerned,
there is little opportunity for such influences. As far
as a physical theory is completed through all the steps
of a just induction, there is a clear daylight diffused over
it which leaves no lurking-place for prejudice. Each
part can be examined separately and repeatedly; and
the theory is not to be deemed perfect till it will bear
the scrutiny of all sound minds alike. Although, there­
fore, Bacon, by warning men against the idols or falla­
cious images above spoken of, may have guarded them
from dangerous errour, his precepts have little to do
with Natural Philosophy: and we cannot agree with
him when he says*, that the doctrine concerning these
idols bears the same relation to the interpretation of
nature as the doctrine concerning sophistical paralogisms
bears to common logic.
* N ot. Or(j.; Lib. I. Apli. -iO.
21. (VIII.) There is one very prominent feature in
Bacon’s speculations which we must not omit to notice;
it is a leading and constant object with him to apply his
knowledge to Use.The insight which he obta
nature, he would employ in commanding nature for the
service of man. He wishes to have not only principles
but works. The phrase which best describes the aim
of his philosophy is his own*, “ Ascendendo ad
descendendo ad opera'' This disposition appears in the
first aphorism of the Novum Organon, and runs through
the work. “ Man, the minister and interpreter of nature,
does and understands, so far as he has, in fact or in
thought, observed the course of nature; and he cannot
know or do more than this.” It is not necessary for us
to dwell much upon this turn of mind; for the whole of
our present inquiry goes upon the supposition that an
acquaintance with the laws of nature is worth our haring
for its own sake. It may be universally true, that Know­
ledge is Power; but we have to do with it not as Power,
but as Knowledge. It is the formation of Science, not of
Art, with which we are here concerned. It may give a
peculiar interest to the history of science, to show how
it constantly tends to provide better and better for the
wants and comforts of the body; but that is not the in­
terest which engages us in our present inquiry into the
nature and course of philosophy. The consideration of
the means which promote man’s material well-being
often appears to be invested with a kind of dignity, by
the discovery of general laws which it involves; and the
satisfaction which rises in our minds at the contempla­
tion of such cases, men sometimes ascribe, with a false
ingenuity, to the love of mere bodily enjoyment. But it
is never difficult to see that this baser and coarser ele­
ment is not the real source of our admiration. Those
• Nov.O
r
gL
ib. I. Ax. 103.
2 4 6 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
FRANCIS BACON. 247
who hold that it is the main business of science to con­
struct instruments for the uses of life, appear sometimes
to be willing to accept the consequence which follows
from such a doctrine, that the first shoemaker was a
philosopher worthy of the highest admiration*. But
those who maintain such paradoxes, often, by a happy
inconsistency, make it their own aim, not to devise some
improved covering for the feet, but to delight the mind
with acute speculations, exhibited in all the graces of
wit and fancy.
It has been saidf that the key of the Baconian doc­
trine consists in two words, Utility and Progress. With
regard to the latter point, we have already seen that the
hope and prospect of a boundless progress in human
knowledge had sprung up in men’s minds, even in the
early times of imperial Rome; and were most emphati­
cally expressed by that very Seneca who disdained to
reckon the worth of knowledge by its value in food and
clothing. And when we say that Utility was the great
business of Bacon’s philosophy, we forget one-half of his
characteristic phrase. “ Ascendendo ad axiomata,” no
less than “ descendendo ad opera,” was, he repeatedly
declared, the scheme of his path. He constantly spoke,
we are told by his secretary|, of two kinds of experi­
ments, experimenta f
r
u
c
t
í
f
e
r
a
, and experimenta lucífera
Again; when we are told by modern writers that
Bacon merely recommended such induction as all men
instinctively practise, we ought to recollect his own
earnest and incessant declarations to the contrary. The
induction hitherto practised is, he says, of no use for
obtaining solid science. There are two ways §, “ haec via
in usu est,” “altera vera, sed intentata.” Men have con­
* Edinb. Rev., No. cxxxii. p. 65.
X Pref. to the Nat. Hist., I. 243.
§ Nov. Org., Lib. i. Aph. 10.
+ lb.
stantly been employed in anticipation; in illicit induc­
tion. The intellect left to itself rushes on in this road*;
the conclusions so obtained are persuasive+; far more
persuasive than inductions made with due caution
But still this method must be rejected if we would
obtain true knowledge. We shall then at length have
ground of good hope for science when we proceed in
another manner $. We must rise, not by a leap, but by
small steps, by successive advances, by a gradation of
ascents, trying our facts, and clearing our notions at
every interval. The scheme of true philosophy, accord­
ing to Bacon, is not obvious and simple, but long and
technical, requiring constant care and self-denial to fol­
low it. And we have seen that, in this opinion, his
judgment is confirmed by the past history and present
condition of science.
Again; it is by no means a just view of Bacon’s cha­
racter to place him in contrast to Plato. Plato’s philo­
sophy was the philosophy of Ideas; but it was not left
for Bacon to set up the philosophy of Facts in opposition
to that of Ideas. That had been done fully by the spe­
culative reformers of the sixteenth century. Bacon had
the merit of showing that Facts and Ideas must be com­
bined ; and not only so, but of divining many of the spe­
cial rules and forms of this combination, when as yet
there were no examples of them, with a sagacity hitherto
quite unparalleled.
22. (IX.) With Bacon’s unhappy political life we
have here nothing to do. But we cannot but notice
with pleasure how faithfully, how perseveringly, how
energetically he discharged his great philosophical office
of a Reformer of Methods. He had conceived the pur­
* Nov. Org., Lib. i. Aph. 20- + Aph. 27- } 28.
§ Aph. 104. So Aph, ]05. “ In constituendo axiomatc forma
inductionis alia quam adhuc in nsu fuit excogitanda est,” &c.
2 4 8 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
FRANCIS BACON. 2 4 9
pose of making this his object at an early period. When
meditating the continuation of his Novum Organon, and
speaking of his reasons for trusting that his work will
reach some completeness of effect, he says*, “ I am by
two arguments thus persuaded. First, I think thus from
the zeal and constancy of my mind, which has not waxed
old in this design, nor, after so many years, grown cold
and indifferent; I remember that about forty years ago
I composed a juvenile work about these things, which
with great contrivance and a pompous title I called
temporis partum maximum, or the most considerable
birth of time; Next, that on account of its usefulness, it
may hope the Divine blessing.” In stating the grounds
of hope for future progress in the sciences, he says f :
“Some hope may, we conceive, be ministered to men by
our own example: and this we say, not for the sake of
boasting, but because it is useful to be said. If any
despond, let them look at me, a man among all others
of my age most occupied with civil affairs, nor of very
sound health, (which brings a great loss of time;) also
in this attempt the first explorer, following the footsteps
of no man, nor communicating on these subjects with
any mortal; yet, having steadily entered upon the true
road and made my mind submit to things themselves,
one who has, in this undertaking, made, (as we think,)
some progress.” He then proceeds to speak of what
may be done by the combined and more prosperous
labours of others, in that strain of noble hope and con­
fidence, which rises again and again, like a chorus, at
intervals in every part of his writings. In the Advance­
ment of Learning he had said, “ I could not be true and
constant to the argument I handle, if I were not willing
to go beyond others, but yet not more willing than to
have others go beyond me again.” In the Preface to the
* Ep. ad P. Fufgentium. Op., x. 330. t Nov. O r g i. Aph. 113.
2 5 0 REVIEW OK OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
Instauratio M
a
g
n
a
, he had placed among his postulates
those expressions which have more than once wanned the
breast of a philosophical reformer *. “ Concerning our­
selves we speak not; but as touching the matter which
we have in hand, this we ask;—that men be of good
hope, neither feign and imagine to themselves this our
Reform as something of infinite dimension and beyond
the grasp of mortal man, when in truth it is the end and
true limit of infinite errour; and is by no means unmind­
ful of the condition of mortality and humanity, not con­
fiding that such a thing can be carried to its. perfect
close in the space of a single age, but assigning it as a
task to a succession of generations.” In a later portion
of the Instauratio he says: “ We bear the strongest love
to the human r
e
p
u
b
l
i
c
, our common country; and we b
no means abandon the hope that there will arise and
come forth some man among posterity, who will be able
to receive and digest all that is best in what we deliver;
and whose care it will be to cultivate and perfect such
things. Therefore, by the blessing of the Deity, to tend to
this object, to open up the fountains, to discover the use­
ful, to gather guidance for the way, shall be our task; and
from this we shall never, while we remain in life, desist.”
23. (X.) We may add, that the spirit of piety as well
as of hope which is seen in this passage, appears to have
been habitual to Bacon at all periods of his life. We
find in his works several drafts of portions of his great
scheme, and several of them begin with a prayer. One
of these entitled, in the edition of his works, “ The
Student’s Prayer,” appears to me to belong probably to
his early youth. Another, entitled “ The Writer’s Prayer,”
is inserted at the end of the Preface of the ,
as it was finally published. I will conclude my notice of
this wonderful man by inserting here these two prayers.
* * Soe tho motto to K ants Krttik der Remen Vernunft.
FRANCIS BACON. 251
“To God the Father, God the Word, God the Spirit,
we pour forth most humble and hearty supplications;
that he, remembering the calamities of mankind, and the
pilgrimage of this our life, in which we wear out days
few and evil, would please to open to us new refresh­
ments out of the fountains of his goodness for the
alleviating of our miseries. This also we humbly and
earnestly beg, that human things may not prejudice such
as are divine; neither that, from the unlocking of the
gates of sense, and the kindling of a greater natural
light, anything of incredulity, or intellectual night, may
arise in our minds towards divine mysteries. But rather,
that by our mind thoroughly cleansed and purged from
fancy and vanities, and yet subject and perfectly given
up to the Divine oracles, there may be given unto faith
the things that are faith’s.”
“ Thou, 0 Father, who gavest the visible light as the
first-born of thy creatures, and didst pour into man the
intellectual light as the top and consummation of thy
workmanship, be pleased to protect and govern this
work, which coming from thy goodness, returneth to thy
glory. Thou, after thou hadst reviewed the works which
thy hands had made, beheldest that everything was very
good, and thou didst rest with complacency in them.
But man, reflecting on the works which he had made,
saw that all was vanity and vexation of spirit, and could
by no means acquiesce in them. Wherefore, if we labour
in thy works with the sweat of our brows, thou wilt
make us partakers of thy vision and thy Sabbath. We
humbly beg that this mind may be steadfastly in us;
and that thou, by our hands, and also by the hands of
others on whom thou shalt bestow the same spirit, wilt
please to convey a largess of new alms to thy family of
mankind. These things we commend to thy everlasting
love, by our Jesus, thy Christ, God with us. Amen.”
Digitized by Google
2 5 2 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
C h a p t e r XII.
FROM BACON TO NEW TON.
I. Harvey.—W e have already seen that Bacon was
by no means the first mover or principal author of the
revolution in the method of philosophizing which took
place in his time; but only the writer who proclaimed
in the most impressive and comprehensive manner, the
scheme, the profit, the dignity, and the prospects of the
new philosophy. Those, therefore, who after him, took
up the same views are not to be considered as his succes­
sors, but as his fellow-labourers; and the line of his­
torical succession of opinions must be pursued without
special reference to any one leading character, as the
principal figure of the epoch. I resume this line, by
noticing a contemporary and fellow-countryman of
Bacon, Harvey, the discoverer of the circulation of the
blood. This discovery was not published and generally
accepted till near the end of Bacon’s life; but the ana­
tomist’s reflections on the method of pursuing science,
though strongly marked with the character of the revo­
lution that was taking place, belong to a very different
school from the Chancellor’s. Harvey was a pupil of
Fabricius of Acquapendente, whom we noticed among
the practical reformers of the sixteenth century. He
entertained, like his.master, a strong reverence for the
great names which had ruled in philosophy up to that
time, Aristotle and Galen; and was disposed rather to
recommend his own method by exhibiting it as the true
interpretation of ancient wisdom, than to boast of its
novelty. It is true, that he assigns, as his reason for
publishing some of his researches*, “that by revealing
the method I use in searching into things, I might pro-
• Anatomical Exercilatious concerning the Generation of Living
Creatures, 1653. Preface.
FROM BACON TO NEWTON. 253
pose to studious men, a new and (if I mistake not) a
surer path to the attainment of knowledge*;” but he
soon proceeds to fortify himself with the authority of
Aristotle. In doing this, however, he has the very great
merit of giving a living and practical character to truths
which exist in the Aristotelian works, but which had
hitherto been barren and empty professions. We have
seen that Aristotle had asserted the importance of expe­
rience as one root of knowledge ; and in this had been
followed by the schoolmen of the middle ages : but this
assertion camé with very different force and effect from
a man, the whole of whose life had been spent in obtain­
ing, by means of experience, knowledge which no man
had possessed before. In Harvey’s general reflections,
the necessity of both the elements of knowledge, sen­
sations and ideas, experience and reason, is fully brought
into view, and rightly connected with the metaphysics
of Aristotle. He puts the antithesis of these two ele­
ments with great clearness. “ Universals are chiefly
• He used similar expressions in conversation. George Ent, who
edited his Generation of Animals, visited him, “ at that time residing
not far from the city ; and found him very intent upon the persemta-
tion of nature's works, and with a countenance as cheerful, as mind
unperturbed ; Democritus like, chiefly searching into the cause of
natural things." In the course of conversation the writer said, “ It
hath always been your choice about the secrets of Nature, to consult
Nature herself.” “ T îb true,” replied he; “ and I have constantly been
of opinion that from thence we might acquire not only the knowledge of
those less considerable secrets of Nature, but even a certain admiration
of that Supreme Essence, the Creator. And though I have ever been
ready to acknowledge, that many things have been discovered by
learned men of former times ; yet do I still believe that the number of
those which remain yet concealed in the darkness of impervestigable
Nature is much greater. Nay, I cannot forbear to wonder, and some­
times smile at those, who persuade themselves, that all things were so
consummately and absolutely delivered by Aristotle, Galen, or some
other great name, as that nothing was left to the superadditiou of any
that succeeded.”
*254 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
known to us, for science is begot by reasoning from
universals to particulars; yet that very comprehension
of universals in the understanding springs from the per­
ception of singulars in our sense.” Again, he quotes
Aristotle’s apparently opposite assertions:—that made
in his Physics*
,
“that we must advance from things
which are first known to us, though confusedly, to things
more distinctly intelligible in themselves; from the whole
to the part; from the universal to the particularand
that made in the A
n
a
l
y
t
i
c
sf
, that “ Singulars are mo
known to us and do first exist accordingto sense: for
nothing is in the understanding which was not before in
the sense.” Both, he says, are true, though at first they
seem to clash: for “though in knowledge we begin with
sense, sensation itself is a universal thing.” This he
further illustrates; and quotes Seneca, who says, that
“ Art itself is nothing but the reason of the work, im­
planted in the Artist’s mind:” and adds, “ the same way
by which we gain an Art, by the very same way we attain
any kind of science or knowledge whatever; for as Art
is a habit whose object is something to be done, so Sci­
ence is a habit whose object is something to be known;
and as the former proceedeth from the imitation of
examples, so this latter, from the knowledge of things
natural. The source of both is from sense and expe­
rience; since [but] it is impossible that Art should be
rightly purchased by the one or Science by the other
without a direction from ideas.” Without here dwell­
ing on the relation of Art and Science, (very justly stated
by Harvey, except that ideas exist in a very different
form in the mind of the Artist and the Scientist) it will
be seen that this doctrine, of science springing from
experience with a direction from ideas, is exactly that
which we have repeatedly urged, as the true view of the
* Lib. i. c. 2, 3. t Anal. Post., n.
FROM BACON TO NEWTON. 2 5 5
subject. From this view, Harvey proceeds to infer the
importance of a reference to sense in his own subject,
not only for first discovering, but for receiving know­
ledge: “ Without experience, not other men’s but our
own, no man is a proper disciple of any part of natural
knowledge; without experimental skill in anatomy, he
will no better apprehend what I shall deliver concerning
generation, than a man born blind can judge of the
nature and difference of colours, or one born deaf, of
sounds.” “ If we do otherwise, we may get a humid and
floating opinion, but never a solid and infallible know­
ledge : as is happenable to those who see foreign coun­
tries only in maps, and the bowels of men falsely
described in anatomical tables. And hence it comes
about, that in this rank age, we have many sophisters
and bookwrights, but few wise men and philosophers.”
He had before declared “ how unsafe and degenerate a
thing it is, to be tutored by other men’s commentaries,
without making trial of the things themselves; especially
since Nature’s book is so open and legible.” We are
here reminded of Galileo’s condemnation of the “ paper
philosophers.” The train of thought thus expressed by
the practical discoverers, spread rapidly with the spread
of the new knowledge that had suggested it, and soon
became general and unquestioned.
II. Descartes.—Such opinions are now among the
most familiar and popular of those which are current
among writers and speakers; but we should err much if
we were to imagine that after they were once propounded
they were never resisted or contradicted. Indeed, even
in our own time, not only are such maxims very fre­
quently practically neglected or forgotten, but the oppo­
site opinions, and views of science quite inconsistent with
those we have been explaining, are often promulgated
and widely accepted. The philosophy of pure ideas has
‘
2 5 6 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
its commonplaces, as well as the philosophy of expe­
rience. And at the time of which we speak, the former
philosophy, no less than the latter, had its great as­
serter and expounder; a man in his own time more
admired than Bacon, regarded with more deference by
a large body of disciples all over Europe, and more
powerful in stirring up men’s minds to a new activity of
inquiry. I speak of Descartes, whose labours, considered
as a philosophical system, were an endeavour to revive
the method of obtaining knowledge by reasoning from
our own ideas only, and to erect it in opposition to the
method of observation and experiment. The Cartesian
philosophy contained an attempt at a counter-revolution.
Thus in this author’s Principia Philosophic*, he says
that “ he will give a short account of the principal phe­
nomena of the world, not that he may use them as rea­
sons to prove anything; for,” adds he, “ we desire to
deduce effects from causes, not causes from effects; but
only in order that out of the innumerable effects which
we learn to be capable of resulting from the same causes,
we may determine our mind to consider some rather
than others.” He had before said, “ The principles
which we have obtained [by pure pi'ioH reasoning]
are so vast and so fruitful, that many more consequences
follow from them than we see contained in this visible
world, and even many more than our mind can ever take
a full survey of.” And he professes to apply this method
in detail. Thus in attempting to state the three fun­
damental laws of motion, he employs only d priori rea­
sonings, and is in fact led into errour in the third law
which he thus obtainsf. And in his Dioptincs\ he pre­
tends to deduce the laws of reflection and refraction of
light from certain comparisons (which are, in truth, arbi­
trary,) in which the radiation of light is represented by
# Pars iii. p. Aiu t Soc Hht. hid. Sri., B. vi. c. ii. X Cap. i. II.
FROM BACON TO NEWTON. 257
the motion of a ball impinging upon the reflecting or
refracting body. It might be represented as a curious
instance of the caprice of fortune, which appears in sci­
entific as in other history, that Kepler, professing to
derive all his knowledge from experience, and exerting
himself with the greatest energy and perseverance, failed
in detecting the law of refraction; while Descartes, who
professed to be able to despise experiment, obtained the
true law of sines. But as we have stated in the
tory*, Descartes appears to have learnt this law from
Snells papers. And whether this be so or not, it is cer­
tain that notwithstanding the profession of independence
which his philosophy made, it was in reality constantly
guided and instructed by experience. Thus in explain­
ing the Rainbow (in which his portion of the discovery
merits great praise) he speaksf of taking a globe of
glass, allowing the sun to shine on one side of it, and
noting the colours produced by rays after two refractions
and one reflection. And in many other instances, in­
deed in all that relates to physics, the reasonings and
explanations of Descartes and his followers were, con­
sciously or unconsciously, directed by the known facts,
which they had observed themselves or learnt from
others.
But since Descartes thus, speculatively at least, set
himself in opposition to the great reform of scientific
method which was going on in his time, how, it may be
asked, did he acquire so strong an influence over the
most active minds of his time ? How is it that he be­
came the founder of a large and distinguished school of
philosophers? How is it that he not only was mainly
instrumental in deposing Aristotle from his intellectual
throne, but for a time appeared to have established him­
self with almost equal powers, and to have rendered the
* H
itt.In
d
. Sex., B. ix. c. ii. + Meteorum, c. viii. p. 187.
VOL. n. W. P. S
2 5 8 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
Cartesian school as firm a body as the Peripatetic had
been?
The causes to be assigned for this remarkable result
are, I conceive, the following. In the first place, the
physicists of the Cartesian school did, as I have just
stated, found their philosophy upon experiment; and did
not practically, nor indeed, most of them, theoretically,
assent to their master’s boast of showing what the phe­
nomena must be,instead of looking to see what
And as Descartes had really incorporated in his philo­
sophy all the chief physical discoveries of his own and
preceding times, and had delivered, in a more general
and systematic shape than any one before him, the prin­
ciples which he thus established, the physical philosophy
of his school was in reality far the best then current;
and was an immense improvement upon the Aristotelian
doctrines, which had not yet been displaced as a system.
Another circumstance which gained him much favour,
was the bold and ostentatious manner in which he pro­
fessed to begin his philosophy by liberating himself from
all preconceived prejudice. The first sentence of his
philosophy contains this celebrated declaration: “ Since,”
he says, “ we begin life as infants, and have contracted
various judgments concerning sensible things before we
possess the entire use of our reason, we are turned aside
from the knowledge of truth by many prejudices: from
which it does not appear that we can be any otherwise
delivered, than if once in our life we make it our business
to doubt of everything in which we discern the smallest
suspicion of uncertainty.” In the face of this sweeping
rejection or unhesitating scrutiny of all preconceived
opinions, the power of the ancient authorities and mas­
ters in philosophy must obviously shrink away; and thus
Descartes came to be considered as the great hero of
the overthrow of the Aristotelian dogmatism. But in
FROM BACON TO NEWTON. 2 5 0
addition to these causes, and perhaps more powerful
than all, in procuring the assent of men to his doctrines,
came the deductive and systematic character of his phi­
losophy. For although all knowledge of the external
world is in reality only to be obtained from observation,
by inductive steps,—minute, perhaps, and slow, and
many, as Galileo and Bacon had already taught;—the
human mind conforms to these conditions reluctantly
and unsteadily, and is ever ready to rush to general
principles, and then to employ itself in deducing con­
clusions from these by synthetical reasonings*; a task
grateful, from the distinctness and certainty of the result,
and the accompanying feeling of our own sufficiency.
Hence men readily overlooked the precarious character
of Descartes’ fundamental assumptions, in their admira­
tion of the skill with which a varied and complex Uni­
verse was evolved out of them. And the complete and
systematic character of this philosophy attracted men no
less than its logical connexion. I may quote here what
a philosopher* of our own time has said of another
writer: “ He owed his influence to various causes; at
the head of which may be placed that genius for system
which, though it cramps the growth of knowledge, per­
haps finally atones for that mischief by the zeal and
activity which it rouses among followers and opponents,
who discover truth by accident when in pursuit of wea­
pons for their warfare. A system which attempts a task
so hard as that of subjecting vast provinces of human
knowledge to one or two principles, if it presents some
striking instances of conformity to superficial appear­
ances, is sure to delight the framer ; and for a time to
subdue and captivate the student too entirely for sober
reflection and rigorous examination. In the first in­
stance consistency passes for truth. When principles in
• Mackintosh, Dissertation on Ethical Science.
$ 2
2 6 0 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
some instances have proved sufficient to give an un­
expected explanation of facts, the delighted reader is
content to accept as true all other deductions from the
principles. Specious premises being assumed to be true,
nothing more can be required than logical inference.
Mathematical forms pass current as the equivalent of
mathematical certainty. The unwary admirer is satisfied
with the completeness and symmetry of the plan of his
house, unmindful of the need of examining the firmness
of the foundation and the soundness of the materials.
The system-maker, like the conqueror, long dazzles and
overawes the world; but when their sway is past, the
vulgar herd, unable to measure their astonishing facul­
ties, take revenge by trampling on fallen greatness.”
Bacon had showed his wisdom in his reflections on this
subject, when he said that “Method, carrying a show of
total and perfect knowledge, hath a tendency to generate
acquiescence.”
The main value of Descartes’ physical doctrines con­
sisted in their being arrived at in a way inconsistent with
his own professed method, namely, by a reference to
observation. But though he did in reality begin from
facts, his system was nevertheless a glaring example
of that errour which Bacon had called Anticipation; that
illicit generalization which leaps at once from special
facts to principles of the widest and remotest kind; such,
for instance, as the Cartesian doctrine, that the world is
an absolute plenum,
, every part being full of m
some kind, and that all natural effects depend on the
laws of motion. Against this fault, to which the human
mind is so prone, Bacon had lifted his warning voice in
vain, so far as the Cartesians were concerned; as indeed,
to this day, one theorist after another pursues his course,
and turns a deaf ear to the Verularaian injunctions; per­
haps even complacently boasts that he founds his theory
FROM BACON TO NEWTON. 261
upon observation; and forgets that there are, as the
aphorism of the Novum Organon declares, two ways by
which this may be done;—the one hitherto in use and
suggested by our common tendencies, but barren and
worthless; the other almost untried, to be pursued only
with effort and self-denial, but alone capable of producing
true knowledge.
III. Gassendi.—Thus the lessons which Bacon taught
were far from being generally accepted and applied at
first. The amount of the influence of these two men,
Bacon and Descartes, upon their age, has often been a
subject of discussion. The fortunes of the Cartesian
school have been in some measure traced in the History
of Science. But I may mention the notice taken of these
two philosophers by Gassendi, a contemporary and coun­
tryman of Descartes. Gassendi, as I have elsewhere
stated*, was associated with Descartes in public opiuion,
as an opponent of the Aristotelian dogmatism; but was
not in fact a follower or profound admirer of that writer.
In a Treatise on Logic, Gassendi gives an account of the
Logic of various sects and authors; treating, in order, of
the Logic of Zeno (the Eleatic), of Euclid (the Mega-
rean), of Plato, of Aristotle, of the Stoics, of Epicurus,
of Lullius, of Ramus; and to these he adds the Logic of
Verulam, and the Logic of Cartesius. “ We must not,” he
says, “ on account of the celebrity it has obtained, pass
over the Organon or Logic of Francis Bacon Lord Veru­
lam, High Chancellor of England, whose noble purpose
in our time it has been, to make an Instauration of the
Sciences.” He then gives a brief account of the Novum
Organon, noticing the principal features in its rules, and
especially the distinction between the vulgar induction
which leaps at once from particular experiments to the
more general axioms, and the chastised and gradual in­
* Hut* lnd. Sci.yB. vn. c. i.
duction, which the author of the Organon recommends.
In his account of the Cartesian Logic, he justly observes,
that “ He too imitated Verulam in this, that being about
to build up a new philosophy from the foundation, he
wished in the first place to lay aside all prejudice: and
having then found some solid principle, to make that the
ground-work of his whole structure. But he proceeds
by a very different path from that which Verulam follows;
for while Verulam seeks aid from things, to perfect the
cogitation of the intellect, Cartesius conceives, that when
we have laid aside all knowledge of things, there is, in our
thoughts alone, such a resource, that the intellect may
by its own power arrive at a perfect knowledge of all,
even the most abstruse things.”
The writings of Descartes have been most admired,
and his method most commended, by those authors who
have employed themselves upon metaphysical rather than
physical subjects of inquiry. Perhaps we might say that,
in reference to such subjects, this method is not so vicious
as at first, when contrasted with the Baconian induction, it
seems to b e: for it might be urged that the thoughts froih
which Descartes begins his reasonings are, in reality ex-
peinments of the kind which the subject requires us to
consider: each such thought is a fact in the intellectual
world; and of such facts, the metaphysician seeks to
discover the laws. I shall not here examine the validity
of this plea; but shall turn to the consideration of the
actual progress of physical science and its effect on men’s
minds.
IV. Actual progress in Science.—The practical dis­
coverers were indeed very active and very successful
during the seventeenth century which opened with
Bacon’s survey and exhortations. The laws of nature,
of which men had begun to obtain a glimpse in the
preceding century, were investigated with zeal and saga-
2 6 2 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
FROM BACON TO NEWTON. 2 6 3
city, and the consequence was that the foundations of
most of the modern physical sciences were laid. That
mode of research by experiment and observation, which
had, a little time ago, been a strange, and to many, an
unwelcome innovation, was now become the habitual
course of philosophers. The revolution from the phi­
losophy of tradition to the philosophy of experience
was completed. The great discoveries of Kepler be­
longed to the preceding century. They are not, I
believe, noticed, either by Bacon or by Descartes; but
they gave a strong impulse to astronomical and me­
chanical speculators, by showing the necessity of a sound
science of motion. Such a science Galileo had already
begun to construct. At the time of which I speak, his
disciples* were still labouring at this task, and at other
problems which rapidly suggested themselves. They had
already convinced themselves that air had weight; in
1643 Torricelli proved this practically by the invention
of the Barometer; in 1647, Pascal proved it still further
by sending the Barometer to the top of a mountain.
Pascal and Boyle brought into clear view the fundamental
laws of fluid equilibrium; Boyle and Mariotte determined
the law of the compression of air as regulated by its elas­
ticity. Otto Guericke invented the air pump, and by
bis “ Magdeburg Experiments” on a vacuum, illustrated
still further the effects of the air. Guericke pursued what
Gilbert had begun, the observation of electrical pheno­
mena ; and these two physicists made an important step,
by detecting repulsion as well as attraction in these phe­
nomena. Gilbert had already laid the foundations of the
science of Magnetism. The law of refraction, at which
Kepler had laboured in vain, was, as we have seen, disco­
vered by Snell (about 1621), and published by Descartes.
* Castelli, Torricelli, Viviani, Baliani, Gassendi, Merscnne, Borelli,
Cavalkri.
Mersenne had discovered some of the more important
parts of the theory of Harmonics. In sciences of a differ­
ent kind, the same movement was visible. Chemical
doctrines tended to assume a proper degree of generality,
when Sylvius in 1679 taught the opposition of acid and
alkali, and Stahl, soon after, the phlogistic theory of com­
bustion. Steno had remarked the most important law of
crystallography in 1669, that the angles of the same kind
of crystals are always equal. In the sciences of classi­
fication, about 1680, Ray and Morison in England
resumed the attempt to form a systematic botany, which
had been interrupted for a hundred years, from the time
of the memorable essay of Csesalpinus. The grand dis­
covery of the circulation of the blood by Harvey about
1619, was followed in 1651 by Pecquet’s discovery of the
course of the chyle. There could now no longer be any
question whether science was progressive, or whether
observation could lead to new truths.
Among these cultivators of science, such sentiments as
have been already quoted became very familiar;— that
knowledge is to be sought from nature herself by obser­
vation and experiment;—that in such matters tradition
is of no force when opposed to experience, and that mere
reasonings without facts cannot lead to solid knowledge.
But I do not know that we find in these writers any more
special rules of induction and scientific research which
have since been confirmed and universally adopted.
Perhaps too, as was natural in so great a revolution, the
writers of this time, especially the second-rate ones, were
somewhat too prone to disparage the labours and talents
of Aristotle and the ancients in general, and to overlook
the ideal element of our knowledge, in their zealous study
of phenomena. They urged, sometimes in an exaggerated
manner, the superiority ofmodern times in all that regards
science, and the supreme and sole importance of facts in
264 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
FROM DACON TO NEWTON. 265
scientific investigations. There prevailed among them
also a lofty and dignified tone of speaking ofthe condition
and prospects of science, such as we are accustomed to
admire in the Verulamian writings; for this, in a less
degree, is epidemic among those who a little after his
time speak of the new philosophy.
V. Otto Guericke, 8±c.—I need not illustrate these
characteristics at any great length. I may as an example
notice Otto Guericke’s Preface to his Experimenta
deburgica. (1670). He quotes a passage from Kircher’s
Treatise on the Magnetic Art, in which the author says,
“Hence it appears how all philosophy, except it be sup­
ported by experiments, is empty, fallacious, and useless;
what monstrosities philosophers, in other respects of the
highest and subtlest genius, may produce in philosophy
by neglecting experiment. Thus Experience alone is the
Dissolver of Doubts, the Reconciler of Difficulties, the
sole Mistress of Truth, who holds a torch before us in
obscurity, unties our knots, teaches us the true causes of
things.” Guericke himself reiterates the same remark,
adding that “ philosophers, insisting upon their own
thoughts and arguments merely, cannot come to any
sound conclusion respecting the natural constitution of
the world.” Nor were the Cartesians slow in taking up
the same train of reflection. Thus Gilbert Clark who, in
1660, published* a defence of Descartes’ doctrine of a
plenum in the universe, speaks in a tone which reminds
us of Bacon, and indeed was very probably caught from
him. “ Natural philosophy formerly consisted entirely of
loose and most doubtful controversies, carried on in high
sounding words, fit rather to delude than to instruct men.
But at last (by the favour of the Deity) there shone forth
some more divine intellects, who taking as their counsel-
• De PUnitudine Mundi, in qua de/enditur Cartesiana Philotopjiia
centra tententias Francuci Baconi, Th. ffobbii et Sethi Wardi%
lors reason and experience together, exhibited a new
method of philosophizing. Hence has been conceived a
strong hope that philosophers may embrace, not a shadow
or empty image of Truth, but Truth herself: and that
Physiology (Physics) scattering these controversies to the
winds, will contract an alliance with Mathematics. Yet
this is hardly the work of one age; still less of one man.
Yet let not the mind despond, or doubt not that, one
party of investigators after another following the same
method of philosophizing, at last, under good auguries,
the mysteries of nature being daily unlocked as far as
human feebleness will allow, Truth may at last appear in
full, and these nuptial torches may be lighted.”
As another instance of the same kind, I may quote
the Preface to the First volume of the Transactions of
the Academy of Sciences at Paris. “ It is only since the
present century,” says the writer, “ that we can reckon
the revival of Mathematics and Physics. M. Descartes
and other great men have laboured at this work with so
much success, that in this department of literature, the
whole face of things has been changed. Men have quitted
a sterile system of physics, which for several generations
had been always at the same point; the reign of words
and terms is passed; men will have things; they estab­
lish principles which they understand, they follow those
principles; and thus they make progress. Authority has
ceased to have more weight than Reason: that which
was received without contradiction because it had been
long received, is now examined, and often rejected: and
philosophers have made it their business to consult, re­
specting natural things, Nature herself rather than the
Ancients.” These had now become the commonplaces of
those who spoke concerning the course and method of
the Sciences.
VI. Hooke.—In England, as might be expected, the
266 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
FROM BACON TO NEWTON. 207
influence of Francis Bacon was more directly visible. We
find many writers, about this time, repeating the truths
which Bacon had proclaimed, and in almost every case
showing the same imperfections in their views which we
have noticed in him. We may take as an example of
this Hooke’s Essay, entitled “ A General Scheme or Idea
of the present state of Natural Philosophy, and how its
defects may be remedied by a Methodical proceeding in
the making Experiments and collecting Observations;
whereby to compile a Natural History as a solid basis for
the superstructure of true Philosophy.” This Essay may
be looked upon as an attempt to adapt the Novum Or­
ganon to the age which succeeded its publication. We
have in this imitation, as in the original, an enumeration
of various mistakes and impediments which had in pre­
ceding times prevented the progress of knowledge; ex­
hortations to experiment and observation as the only solid
basis of Science; very ingenious suggestions of trains of
inquiry, and modes of pursuing them; and a promise of
obtaining scientific truths when facts have been duly
accumulated. This last part of his scheme the author
calls a Philosophical Algebra-, and he appears to have
imagined that it might answer the purpose of finding
unknown causes from known facts, by means of certain
regular processes, in the same manner as Common Alge­
bra finds unknown from known quantities. But this part
of the plan appears to have remained unexecuted. The
suggestion of such a method was a result of the Baconian
notion that invention in a discoverer might be dispensed
with. We find Hooke adopting the phrases in which this
notion is implied: thus he speaks of the understanding
as “being very prone to run into the affirmative way of
judging, and wanting patience to follow and prosecute
the negative way of inquiry, by rejection of disagreeing
natures.” And he follows Bacon also in the errour of
268 REVIEW OF OPINION’S ON KNOWLEDGE.
attempting at once to obtain from the facts the discovery
of a “ nature,” instead of investigating first the measures
and the laws of phenomena. I return to more general
notices of the course of men’s thoughts on this subject.
VII. Royal Society.—Those who associated them­
selves together for the prosecution of science quoted
Bacon as their leader, and exulted in tbe progress made
by the philosophy which proceeded upon his principles.
Thus in Oldenburg’s Dedication of the Transactions of the
Royal Society of London for 1670, to Robert Boyle, he
says; “ I am informed by such as well remember the
best and worst days of the famous Lord Bacon, that
though he wrote his Advancement of Learning and his
Instauratio Magna in the time of his greatest power, yet
his greatest reputation rebounded first from the most
intelligent foreigners in many parts of Christendom
and after speaking of his practical talents and his public
employments, he adds, “ much more justly still may we
wonder how, without any great skill in Chemistry, with­
out much pretence to the Mathematics or Mechanics,
without optic aids or other engines of late invention, he
should so much transcend the philosophers then living,
in judicious and clear instructions, in so many useful
observations and discoveries, I think I may say beyond
the records of many ages.” And in the end of the Pre­
face to the same volume, he speaks with great exultation
of the advance of science all over Europe, referring un­
doubtedly to facts then familiar. “And now let envy
snarl, it cannot stop the wheels of active philosophy, in
no part of the known world;—not in France, either in
Paris or in Caen:—not in Italy, either in Rome, Naples,
Milan, Florence, Venice, Bononia or Padua;—in none of
the Universities either on this or on that side of the seas,
Madrid and Lisbon, all the best spirits in Spain and Por­
tugal, and the spacious and remote dominions to them
PROM BACON TO NEWTON. 269
belonging;—the Imperial Court and the Princes of Ger­
many; the Northern Kings and their best luminaries;
and even the frozen Muscovite and Russian have all
taken the operative ferment: and it works high and pre­
vails every way, to the encouragement of all sincere
lovers of knowledge and virtue.”
Again, in the Preface for 1672, he pursues the same
thought into detail. “ We must grant that in the last
age, when operative philosophy began to recover ground,
and to tread on the heels of triumphant Philology; emer­
gent adventures and great successes were encountered
by dangerous oppositions and strong obstructions. Gali-
laeus and others in Italy suffered extremities for their
celestial discoveries; and here in England Sir Walter
Raleigh, when he was in his greatest lustre, was noto­
riously slandered to have erected a school of atheism,
because he gave countenance to chemistry, to practical
arts, and to curious mechanical operations, and designed
to form the best of them into a college. And Queen
Elizabeth’s Gilbert was a long time esteemed extra­
vagant for his magnetisms; and Harvey for his diligent
researches in pursuance of the circulation of the blood.
But when our renowned Lord Bacon had demonstrated
the methods for a perfect restoration of all parts of real
knowledge; and the generous and philosophical Peires-
kius had, soon after, agitated in all parts to redeem the
most instructive antiquities, and to excite experimental
essays and fresh discoveries; the success became on a
sudden stupendous; and effective philosophy began to
sparkle, and even to flow into beams of shining light all
over the world.”
The formation of the Royal Society of London and
of the Academy of Sciences of Paris, from which pro­
ceeded the declamations just quoted, were among many
indications, belonging to this period, of the importance
2 7 0 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
which states as well as individuals had by this time
begun to attach to the cultivation of science. The
English Society was established almost immediately
when the restoration of the monarchy appeared to give a
promise of tranquillity to the nation (in 1660), and the
French Academy very soon afterwards (in 1666). These
measures were very soon followed by the establishment
of the Observatories of Paris and Greenwich (in 1667
and 1675); which may be considered to be a kind of pub­
lic recognition of the astronomy of observation, as an
object on which it was the advantage and the duty of
nations to bestow their wealth.
VIII. Bacon's New Atalantis.—When philosophers
had their attention turned to the boundless prospect of
increase to the knowledge and powers and pleasures of
man which the cultivation of experimental philosophy
seemed to promise, it was natural that they should think
of devising institutions and associations by which such
benefits might be secured. Bacon had drawn a picture
of a society organized with a view to such purpose, in his
fiction of the “ New Atalantis.” The imaginary teacher
who explains this institution to the inquiring traveller,
describes it by the name of Solomon's House; and says*,
“The end of our foundation is the knowledge of causes
and secret motions of things; and the enlarging the
bounds of the human empire to effecting of things pos­
sible.” And, as parts of this House, he describes caves
and wells, chambers and towers, baths and gardens, parks
and pools, dispensatories and furnaces, and many other
contrivances, provided for the purpose of making experi­
ments of many kinds. He describes also the various
employments of the Fellows of this College, who take a
share in its researches. There are merchants qf ,
who bring books and inventions from foreign countries;
* Bacons Work*yVol. ix. 111.
FROM BACON TO NEWTON. 271
depredatoi's, who gather the experiments which exist in
books; m y s t e r y - m e n ,who collect the experiments
mechanical arts; pioneers or miners, who invent new
experiments; and compilers, “ who draw the experiments
of the former into titles and tables, to give the better
light for the drawing of observations and axioms out of
them.” There are also dowry-men or benefactors, that
cast about how to draw out of the experiments of their
fellows things of use and practice for man’s life; lamps,
that direct new experiments of a more penetrating light
than the former; inoculators,that execute the e
ments so directed. Finally, there are the interpreters of
nature, that raise the former discoveries by experiments
into greater observations (that is, more general truths)
axioms and aphorisms. Upon this scheme we may re­
mark, that fictitious as it undisguisedly is, it still serves
to exhibit very clearly some of the main features of the
author’s philosophy:—namely, his steady view of the
necessity of ascending from facts to the most general
truths by several stages;—an exaggerated opinion of the
aid that could be derived in such a task from technical
separation of the phenomena and a distribution of them
into tables;—a belief, probably incorrect, that the offices
of experimenter and interpreter may be entirely sepa­
rated, and pursued by different persons with a certainty
of obtaining success;—and a strong determination to
make knowledge constantly subservient to the uses of
life.
IX. Cowley.—Another project of the same kind, less
ambitious but apparently more directed to practice, was
published a little later (1657) by another eminent man
of letters in this country. I speak of Cowley’s “ Propo­
sition for the Advancement of Experimental Philosophy.”
He suggests that a College should be established at a
short distance from London, endowed with a revenue
of four thousand pounds, and consisting of twenty pro­
fessors with other members. The objects of the labours
of these professors he describes to be, first, to examine
all knowledge of nature delivered to us from former
ages and to pronounce it sound or worthless; second, to
recover the lost inventions of the ancients; third, to
improve all arts that we now have; lastly, to discover
others that we yet have not. In this proposal we cannot
help marking the visible declension from Bacon’s more
philosophical view. For we have here only a very vague
indication of improving old arts and discovering new,
instead of the two clear Verulamian antitheses, Expe­
riments and Axioms deduced from them, on the one
hand, and on the other an ascent to general Laws, and a
derivation, from these, of Arts for daily use. Moreover
the prominent place which Cowley has assigned to the
verifying the knowledge of former ages and recovering
“ the lost inventions and drowned lands of the ancients,”
implies a disposition to think too highly of traditionary
knowledge; a weakness which Bacon’s scheme shows
him to have fully overcome. And thus it has been up
to the present day, that with all Bacon’s mistakes, in the
philosophy of scientific method few have come up to
him, and perhaps none have gone beyond him.
Cowley exerted himself to do justice to the new phi­
losophy in verse as well as prose, and his Poem to the
Royal Society expresses in a very noble manner those
views of the history and prospects of philosophy which
prevailed among the men by whom the Royal Society
was founded. The fertility and ingenuity of comparison
which charaterize Cowley’s poetry are well known; and
these qualities are in this instance largely employed for
the embellishment of his subject. Many of the com­
parisons which he exhibits are apt and striking. Philo­
sophy is a ward whose estate (human knowledge) is, in
2 7 2 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
FROM BACON TO NEWTON. 2 7 3
his nonage, kept from him by his guardians and tutors;
(a case which the ancient rhetoricians were fond of
taking as a subject of declamation;) and these wrong­
doers retain him in unjust tutelage and constraint for
their own purposes; until
Bacon at last, a mighty man, arose,
(Whom a wise King, and Nature, chose
Lord Chancellor of both their laws,)
And boldly undertook the injured pupil’s cause.
Again, Bacon is one who breaks a scarecrow Priapus
which stands in the garden of knowledge. Again, Bacon
is one who, instead of a picture of painted grapes, gives
us real grapes from which we press “ the thirsty soul’s
refreshing wine.” Again, Bacon is like Moses, who led
the Hebrews forth from the barren wilderness, and
ascended Pisgah;—
Did on the very border stand
Of the blest promised land,
And from the mountain’s top of his exalted wit
Saw it himself and showed us itv
The poet however adds, that Bacon discovered, but
did not conquer this new world; and that the men
whom he addresses must subdue these regions. These
“champions” are then ingeniously compared to Gideon’s
band:
Their old and empty pitchers first they brake
And with their hands then lifted up the light. '
There were still at this time some who sneered at or
condemned the new philosophy; but the tide of popular
opinion was soon strongly in its favour. I have else­
where* noticed a pasquinade o f the poet Boileau in
1682, directed against the Aristotelians. At this time,
and indeed for long afterwards, the philosophers of
France were Cartesians. The English men of science,
* Hitt. Ivd.Sri., B. vii. c. i.
VOL. II. W. P. T
although partially and for a time they accepted some of
Descartes’ opinions, for the most part carried on the
reform independently, and in pursuance of their own
views. And they very soon found a much greater leader
than Descartes to place at their head, and to take as
their authority, so far as they acknowledged authority,
in their speculations. I speak of Newton, whose in­
fluence upon the philosophy of science I must now con­
sider.
2 7 4 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
C h a p t e r XIII.
NEW TON.
1 . B o l d and extensive as had been the anticipations
of those whose minds were excited by the promise of the
new philosophy, the discoveries of Newton respecting
the mechanics of the universe, brought into view truths
more general and profound than those earlier philoso­
phers had hoped or imagined. With these vast acces­
sions to human knowledge, men’s thoughts were again
set in action; and philosophers made earnest and various
attempts to draw, from these extraordinary advances in
science, the true moral with regard to the conduct and
limits of the human understanding. They not only en­
deavoured to verify and illustrate, by these new portions
of science, what had recently been taught concerning the
methods of obtaining sound knowledge; but they were
also led to speculate concerning many new and more
interesting questions relating to this subject. They saw,
for the first time, or at least far more clearly than
before, the distinction between the inquiry into the
and into the causes of phenomena. They were tempted
to ask, how far the discovery of causes could be carried;
NEWTON. 2 7 5
and whether it would soon reach, or clearly point to, the
ultimate cause. They were driven to consider whether
the properties which they discovered were essential pro­
perties of all matter, necessarily and primarily involved
in its essence, though revealed to us at a late period by
their derivative effects. These questions even now agi­
tate the thoughts of speculative men. Some of them
have already, in this work, been discussed, or arranged
in the places which our view of the philosophy of these
subjects assigns to them. But we must here notice them
as they occurred to Newton himself and his immediate
followers.
2. The general Baconian notion of the method of
philosophizing, that it consists in ascending from pheno­
mena, through various stages of generalization, to truths
of the highest order, received, in Newton’s discovery of
the universal mutual gravitation of every particle of
matter, that pointed actual exemplification, for want of
which it had hitherto been almost overlooked, or at
least very vaguely understood. That great truth, and
the steps by which it was established, afford, even now,
by far the best example of the successive ascent, from
one scientific truth to another,—of the repeated tran­
sition from less to more general propositions,—which we
can yet produce; as may be seen in the Table which
exhibits the relation of these steps in Book xi. New­
ton himself did not fail to recognize this feature in the
truths which he exhibited. Thus, he says*, “ By the
way of Analysis we proceed from compounds to ingre­
dients, as from motions to the forces producing them;
and in general, from effects to their causes, and from
particular causes to more general ones, till the argu­
ment end in the most general.” And in like manner in
another Queryf: “The main business of natural philo­
* Opticks, Qu. 31, near the end. t Qu. 28,
T 2
sophy is to argue from phenomena without feigning hypo­
theses, and to deduce causes from effects, till we come
to the First Cause, which is certainly not mechanical.”
3. Newton appears to have had a horrour of the term
hypothesis, which probably arose from his acquaintance
with the rash and illicit general assumptions of Descartes.
Thus in the passage just quoted, after declaring that
gravity must have some other cause than matter, he
6ays, “ Later philosophers banish the consideration of
such a cause out of Natural Philosophy, feigning hypo­
theses for explaining all things mechanically, and refer­
ring other causes to metaphysics.” In the celebrated
Scholium at the end of the he says, “ What­
ever is not deduced from the phenomena, is to be termed
hypothesis ;and hypotheses, whether metaphysica
physical, or occult causes, or mechanical, have no place
in experimental philosophy. In this philosophy, pro­
positions are deduced from phenomena, and rendered
general by induction.” And in another place, he arrests
the course of his own suggestions, saying, “ Verum hypo­
theses non fingo.” I have already attempted to show
that this is, in reality, a superstitious and self-destructive
spirit of speculation. Some hypotheses are necessary, in
order to connect the facts which are observed; some
new principle of unity must be applied to the pheno­
mena, before induction can be attempted. What is
requisite is, that the hypothesis should be close to the
facts, and not connected with them by other arbitrary
and untried facts ; and that the philosopher should be
ready to resign it as soon as the facts refuse to confirm
it. We have seen in the History, that it was by such a
use of hypotheses, that both Newton himself and Kepler,
on whose discoveries those of Newton were based, made
their discoveries. The suppositions of a force tending
to the sun and varying inversely as the square of the
27G REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
NEWTON. 2 7 7
distance; of a mutual force between all the bodies of
the solar system; of the force of each body arising from
the attraction of all its parts; not to mention others,
also propounded by Newton,—were all hypotheses before
they were verified as theories. It is related that when
Newton was asked how it was that he saw into the laws
of nature so much further than other men, he replied,
that if it were so, it resulted from his keeping his thoughts
steadily occupied upon the subject which was to be thus
penetrated. But what is this occupation of the thoughts,
if it be not the process of keeping the phenomena clearly
in view, and trying, one after another, all the plausible
hypotheses which seem likely to connect them, till art last
the true law is discovered ? Hypotheses so used are a
necessary element of discovery.
4. With regard to the details of the process of dis­
covery, Newton has given us some of his views, which
are well worthy of notice, on account of their coming
from him ; and which are real additions to the philo­
sophy of this subject. He speaks repeatedly of the ana­
lysis and synthesis of observed facts; and thus marks
certain steps in scientific research, very important, and
not, I think, clearly pointed out by his predecessors.
Thus he says*, “ As in Mathematics, so in Natural Phi­
losophy, the investigation of difficult things by the
method of analysis ought ever to precede the method
of composition. This analysis consists ini making expe­
riments and observations, and in drawing general con­
clusions from them by induction, and admitting of no
objections against the conclusions, but such as are taken
from experiments or other certain truths. And although
the arguing from experiments and observations by induc­
tion be no demonstration of general conclusions; yet it
is the best way of arguing which the nature of things
* O p tic k Qu. 31.
278 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
admits of, and may be looked upon as so much the
stronger, by how much the induction is more general.”
And he then observes, as we have quoted above, that
by this way of analysis we proceed from compounds to
ingredients, from motions to forces, from effects to causes,
and from less to more general causes. The analysis
here spoken of includes the steps which in this work we
call the decomposition of facts, the exact observation and
measurement of the phenomena, and the colligation of
facts; the necessary intermediate step, the selection and
explication of the appropriate conception, being passed
over, in the fear of seeming to encourage the fabrication
of hypotheses. The synthesis of which Newton here
speaks consists of those steps of deductive reasoning,
proceeding from the conception once assumed, which
are requisite for the comparison of its consequences
with the observed facts. This statement of the process
of research, is, as far as it goes, perfectly exact.
5. In speaking of Newton’s precepts on the subject,
we are naturally led to the celebrated “ Rules of Philo­
sophizing,” inserted in the second edition of the Prin­
cipia. These rules have generally been quoted and
commented on with an almost unquestioning reverence.
Such Rules, coming from such an authority, cannot fail
to be highly interesting to us; but at the same time, we
cannot here evade the necessity of scrutinizing their
truth and value, according to the principles which our
survey of this subject has brought into view. The Rules
stand at the beginning of that part of the Principia
(the Third Book) in which he infers the mutual gravi­
tation of the sun, moon, planets, and all parts of each.
They are as follows:
“ Rule I. We are not to admit other causes of natural
things than such as both are true, and suffice for explain­
ing their phenomena.
NEWTON. 2 7 9
“Rule II. Natural effects of the same kind are to
be referred to the same causes, as far as can be done.
“Rule III. The qualities of bodies which cannot be
increased or diminished in intensity, and which belong to
all bodies in which we can institute experiments, are to
be held for qualities of all bodies whatever.
“Rule IV. In experimental philosophy, propositions
collected from phenomena by induction, are to be held
as true either accurately or approximately, notwithstand­
ing contrary hypotheses; till other phenomena occur by
which they may be rendered either more accurate or
liable to exception.”
In considering these Rules, we cannot help remark­
ing, in the first place, that they are constructed with an
intentional adaptation to the case with which Newton
has to deal,—the induction of Universal Gravitation;
and are intended to protect the reasonings before which
they stand. Thus the first Rule is designed to strengthen
the inference of gravitation from the celestial pheno­
mena, by describing it as a tera a true cause;
the second countenances the doctrine that the planetary
motions are governed by mechanical forces, as terrestrial
motions are; the third rule appears intended to justify
the assertion of gravitation, as a quality of
bodies; and the fourth contains, along with a general
declaration of the authority of induction, the author’s
usual protest against hypotheses, levelled at the Car­
tesian hypotheses especially.
6. Of theFirst Rule.— We, however, must consider
these Rules in their general application, in which point
of view they have often been referred to, and have had
very great authority allowed them. One of the points
which has been most discussed, is that maxim which
requires that the causes of phenomena which we assign
should be true causes, term causae. Of course this floes
not mean that they should be the true or right cause;
for although it is the philosopher’s aim to discover such
causes, he would be little aided in his search of truth,
by being told that it is truth which he is to seek. The
rule has generally been understood to prescribe that in
attempting to account for any class of phenomena, we
must assume such causes only, as from other consider­
ations, we know to exist. Thus gravity, which was
employed in explaining the motions of the moon and
planets, was already known to exist and operate at the
earth’s surface.
Now the Rule thus interpreted is, I conceive, an
injurious limitation of the field of induction. For it
forbids us to look for a cause, except among the causes
with which we are already familiar. But if we follow
this rule, how shall we ever become acquainted with any
new cause ? Or how do we know that the phenomena
which we contemplate do really arise from some cause
which we already truly know ? If they do not, must we
still insist upon making them depend upon some of our
known causes; or must we abandon the study of them
altogether ? Must we, for example, resolve to refer the
action of radiant heat to the air, rather than to any
peculiar fluid or ether, because the former is known to
exist, the latter is merely assumed for the purpose of
explanation ? But why should we do this ? Why should
we not endeavour to learn the cause from the effects,
even if it be not already known to us? We can infer
causes, which are new when we first become acquainted
with them. Chemical Forces, Optical Forces, Vital
Forces, are known to us only by chemical and optical
and vital phenomena; must we, therefore, reject their
existence or abandon their study ? They do not conform
to the double condition, that they shall be sufficient and
also real: they are true, only so far as they explain the
280 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
NEWTON. 2 8 1
facts, but are they, therefore, unintelligible or useless?
Are they not highly important and instructive subjects
of speculation ? And if the gravitation which rules the
motions of the planets had not existed at the earth’s
surface;— if it had been there masked and concealed by
the superior effect of magnetism, or some other extra­
neous force, might not Newton still have inferred, from
Kepler’s laws, the tendency of the planets to the sun;
and from their perturbations, their tendency to each
other? His discoveries would still have been immense,
if the cause which he assigned had not been a tern causa
in the sense now contemplated.
7. But what do we mean by calling gravity a “true
cause ?” How do we learn its reality ? Of course, by its
effects, with which we are familiar;—by the weight and
fall of bodies about us. These strike even the most
careless observer. No one can fail to see that all bodies
which we come in contact with are heavy;—that gravity
acts in our neighbourhood here upon earth. Hence, it
may be said, this cause is at any rate a true cause, whether
it explains the celestial phenomena or not.
But if this be what is meant by a tera , it
appears strange to require that in all cases we should
find such a one to account for all classes of phenomena.
Is it reasonable or prudent to demand that we shall
reduce every set of phenomena, however minute, or
abstruse, or complicated, to causes so obviously existing
as to strike the most incurious, and to be familiar among
men ? How can we expect to find such terce causae for
the delicate and recondite phenomena which an exact
and skilful observer detects in chemical, or optical, or
electrical experiments? The facts themselves are too
fine for vulgar apprehension; their relations, their sym­
metries, their measures require a previous discipline to
understand them. How then can their causes be found
among those agencies with which the common unsci­
entific herd of mankind are familiar ? What likelihood
is there that causes held for real by such persons, shall
explain facts which such persons cannot see or cannot
understand ?
Again: if we give authority to such a rule, and re­
quire that the causes by which science explains the facts
which she notes and measures and analyzes, shall be
causes which men, without any special study, have already
come to believe in, from the effects which they casually
-see around them, what is this, except to make our first
rude and unscientific persuasions the criterion and test
of our most laborious and thoughtful inferences ? What
is it, but to give to ignorance and thoughtlessness the
right of pronouncing upon the convictions of intense
study and long-disciplined thought ? “ Electrical atmo­
spheres” surrounding electrized bodies, were at one time
held to be a “true cause” of the effects which such bodies
produce. These atmospheres, it was said, are obvious
to the senses; we feel them like a spider’s web on the
hands and face. ASpinus had to answer such persons,
by proving that there are no atmospheres, no effluvia,
but only repulsion. He thus, for a cause in the
vulgar sense of the term, substituted an hypothesis;
yet who doubts that what he did was an advance in the
science of electricity?
8. Perhaps some persons may be disposed to say, that
Newton’s Rule does not enjoin us to take those causes
only which we clearly know, or suppose we know, to be
really existing and operating, but only causes qf such
kinds as we have already satisfied ourselves do exist in
nature. It may be urged that we are entitled to infer
that thft planets are governed in their motions by an
attractive force, because we find, in the bodies imme­
diately subject to observation and experiment, that such
282 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
NEWTON. 2 8 3
motions are produced by attractive forces, for example
by that of the earth. It may be said that we might on
similar grounds infer forces which unite particles of
chemical compounds, or deflect particles of light, because
we see adhesion and deflection produced by forces.
But it is easy to show that the Rule, thus laxly un­
derstood, loses all significance. It prohibits no hypothe­
sis ; for all hypotheses suppose causes as, in some
case or other, we have seen in action. No one would
think of explaining phenomena by referring them to
forces and agencies altogether different from any which
are known; for on this supposition, how could he pre­
tend to reason about the effects of the assumed causes,
or undertake to prove that they would explain the facts ?
Some close similarity with some known kind of cause is
requisite, in order that the hypothesis may have the
appearance of an explanation. No forces, or virtues,
or sympathies, or fluids, or ethers, would be excluded
by this interpretation of verce causes. Least of all,
would such an interpretation reject the Cartesian hypo­
thesis of vortices; which undoubtedly, as I conceive,
Newton intended to condemn by his Rule. For that
such a case as a whirling fluid, carrying bodies round a
center in orbits, does occur, is too obvious to require
proof. Every eddying stream, or blast that twirls
the dust in the road, exhibits examples of such action,
and would justify the assumption of the vortices which
carry the planets in their courses; as indeed, without
doubt, such facts suggested the Cartesian explanation
of the solar system. The vortices, in this mode of con­
sidering the subject, are at the least as real a cause of
motion as gravity itself.
9. Thus the Rule which enjoins “ trute causes,” is
nugatory, if we take verce causae in the extended sense
of any causes of a real kind, and unphilosophical if we
284 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
understand the terra of those very causes which we fami­
liarly suppose to exist. But it may be said that we are
to designate as “true causes,” not those which are col­
lected in a loose, confused and precarious manner, by
undisciplined minds, from obvious phenomena, but those
which are justly and rigorously inferred. Such a cause,
it may be added, gravity is; for the facts of the down­
ward pressures and downward motions of bodies at the
earth’s surface lead us, by the plainest and strictest
induction, to the assertion of such a force. Now to this
interpretation of the Rule there is no objection; but
then, it must be observed, that on this view, terrestrial
gravity is inferred by the same process as celestial gra­
vitation ; and the cause is no more entitled to be called
“true,” because it is obtained from the former, than
because it is obtained from the latter class of facts. We
thus obtain an intelligible and tenable explanation of a
vera causa; but then, by this explanation, its veinty
ceases to be distinguishable from its other condition, that
it “ suffices for the explanation of the phenomena.” The
assumption of universal gravitation accounts for the fall
of a stone; it also accounts for the revolutions of the
Moon or of Saturn; but since both these explanations
are of the same kind, we cannot with justice make the
one a criterion or condition of the admissibility of the
other.
10. But still, the Rule, so understood, is so far from
being unmeaning or frivolous, that it expresses one of
the most important tests which can be given of a sound
physical theory. It is true, the explanation of one set
of facts may be of the same nature as the explanation of
the other class: but then, that the cause explains both
classes, gives it a very different claim upon our attention
and assent from that which it would have if it explained
one class only. The very circumstance that the two
NEWTON. 2 8 5
explanations coincide, is a most weighty presumption in
their favour. It is the testimony of two witnesses in
behalf of the hypothesis; and in proportion as these two
witnesses are separate and independent, the conviction
produced by their agreement is more and more com­
plete. When the explanation of two kinds of pheno­
mena, distinct, and not apparently connected, leads us to
the same cause, such a coincidence does give a reality to
the cause, which it has not while it merely accounts for
those appearances which suggested the supposition. This
coincidence of propositions inferred from separate classes
of facts, is exactly what we noticed in the last Book, as
one of the most decisive characteristics of a true theory,
under the name of Consilience of Inductions. .
That Newton’s First Rule of Philosophizing, so un­
derstood, authorizes the inferences which he himself
made, is really the ground on which they are so firmly
believed by philosophers. Thus when the doctrine of a
gravity varying inversely as the square of the distance
from the body, accounted at the same time for the rela­
tions of times and distances in the planetary orbits and
for the amount of the moon’s deflection from the tangent
of her orbit, such a doctrine became most convincing: or
again, when the doctrine of the universal gravitation of
all parts of matter, which explained so admirably the
inequalities of the moon’s motions, also gave a satis­
factory account of a phenomenon utterly different, the
precession of the equinoxes. And of the same kind is
the evidence in favour of the undulatory theory of light,
when the assumption of the length of an undulation, to
which we are led by the colours of thin plates, is found
to be identical with that length which explains the phe­
nomena of diffraction; or when the hypothesis of trans­
verse vibrations, suggested by the facts of polarization,
explains also the laws of double refraction. When such
2 8 6 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
a convergence of two trains of induction points to the
same spot, we can no longer suspect that we are wrong.
Such an accumulation of proof really persuades us that
we have to do with a veracausa. And
proof be multiplied;—if we again find other facts of a
sort uncontemplated in framing our hypothesis, but yet
clearly accounted for when we have adopted the sup­
position;—we are still further confirmed in our belief;
and by such accumulation of proof we may be so far
satisfied, as to believe without conceiving it possible
to doubt. In this case, when the validity of the opinion
adopted by us has been repeatedly confirmed by its
sufficiency in unforeseen cases, so that all doubt is
removed and forgotten, the theoretical cause takes its
place among the realities of the world, and becomes
a true cause.
11. Newton’s Rule then, to avoid mistakes, might be
thus expressed; That “ we may, provisorily, assume such
hypothetical cause as will account for any given class of
natural phenomena; but that when two different classes
of facts lead us to the same hypothesis, we may hold it
to be a true cause" And this Rule will rarely or never
mislead us. There are no instances, in which a doctrine
recommended in this manner has afterwards been dis­
covered to be false. There have been hypotheses which
have explained many phenomena, and kept their ground
long, and have afterwards been rejected. But these have
been hypotheses which explained only one class of phe­
nomena ; and their fall took place when another kind of
facts was examined and brought into conflict with the
former. Thus the system of eccentrics and epicycles
accounted for all the observed motions of the planets,
and was the means of expressing and transmitting all
astronomical knowledge for two thousand years. But
then, how was it overthrown ? By considering the dis-
NEWTON. 2 8 7
Unices as well as motions of the heavenly bodies. Here
was a second class of facts; and when the system was
adjusted so as to agree with the one class, it was at
variance with the other. These cycles and epicycles
could not be true, because they could not be made a
just representation of the facts. But if the measures of
distance as well as of position had conspired in pointing
out the cycles and epicycles, as the paths of the planets,
the paths so determined could not have been otherwise
than their real paths; and the epicyclical theory would
have been, at least geometrically, true.
12. Of the Second Rule.—Newton’s Second Rule
directs that “ natural events of the same kind are to be
referred to the same causes, so far as can be done.” Such
a precept at first appears to help us but little; for all
systems, however little solid, profess to conform to such
a rule. When any theorist undertakes to explain a class
of facts, he assigns causes which, according to him, will
by their natural action, as seen in other cases, produce
the effects in question. The events which he accounts
for by his hypothetical cause, are, he holds, of the same
kind as those which such a cause is known to produce.
Kepler, in ascribing the planetary motions to magnetism,
Descartes, in explaining them by means of vortices, held
that they were referring celestial motions to the causes
which give rise to terrestrial motions of the same kind.
The question is, Are the effects of the same kind ? This
once settled, there will be no question about the pro­
priety of assigning them to the same cause. But the
difficulty is, to determine when events are of the same
kind. Are the motions of the planets of the same kind
with the motion of a body moving freely in a curvilinear
path, or do they not rather resemble the motion of a
floating body swept round by a whirling current ? The
Newtonian and the Cartesian answered this question
differently. How then can we apply this Rule with any
advantage ?
13. To this we reply, that there is no way of escaping
this uncertainty and ambiguity, but by obtaining a clear
possession of the ideas which our hypothesis involves,
and by reasoning rigorously from them. Newton asserts
that the planets move in free paths, acted on by certain
forces. The most exact calculation gives the closest
agreement of the results of this hypothesis with the facts.
Descartes asserts that the planets are carried round by a
fluid. The more rigorously the conceptions of force and
the laws of motion are applied to this hypothesis, the
more signal is its failure in reconciling the facts to one
another. Without such calculation, we can come to no
decision between the two hypotheses. If the Newtonian
hold that the motions of the planets are evidently of the
same kind as those of a body describing a curve in free
space, and therefore, like that, to be explained by a
force acting upon the body; the Cartesian denies that
the planets do move in free space. They are, he main­
tains, immersed in a plenum. It is only when it appears
that comets pass through this plenum in all directions
with no impediment, and that no possible form and
motion of its whirlpools can explain the forces and
motions which are observed in the solar system, that he
is compelled to allow the Newtonian’s classification of
events of the same kind.
Thus it does not appear that this Rule of Newton
can be interpreted in any distinct and positive manner,
otherwise than as enjoining that, in the task of induc­
tion, we employ clear ideas, rigorous reasoning, and
close and fair comparison of the results of the hypo­
thesis with the facts. These are, no doubt, important
and fundamental conditions of a just induction; but in
this injunction we find no peculiar or technical criterion
2 8 8 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
NEWTON. 2 8 9
by which we may satisfy ourselves that we are right, or
detect our errours. Still, of such general prudential
rules, none can be more wise than one which thus, in the
task of connecting facts by means of ideas, recommends
that the ideas be clear, the facts, correct, and the chain
of reasoning which connects them, without a flaw.
14. Of theThird Rule.—The Third Rule, that “ qu
lities which are observed without exception be held to
be universal,” as I have already said, seems to be
intended to authorize the assertion of gravitation as a
universal attribute of matter. We formerly stated, in
treating of Mechanical Ideas*, that this application of
such a Rule appears to be a mode of reasoning far from
conclusive. The assertion of the universality of any pro­
perty of bodies must be grounded upon the reason of the
case, and not upon any arbitrary maxim. Is it intended
by this Rule to prohibit any further examination how
far gravity is an original property of matter, and how
far it may be resolved into the result of other agencies ?
We know perfectly well that this was not Newton’s
intention; since the cause of gravity was a point which
he proposed to himself as a subject of inquiry. It would
certainly be very unphilosophical to pretend, by this
Rule of Philosophizing, to prejudge the question of such
hypotheses as that of Mosotti, That gravity is the excess
of the electrical attraction over electrical repulsion: and
yet to adopt this hypothesisvwould be to suppose elec­
trical forces more truly universal than gravity; for ac­
cording to the hypothesis, gravity, being the inequality
of the attraction and repulsion, is only an accidental
and partial relation of these forces. Nor would it be
allowable to urge this Rule as a reason of assuming that
double stars are attracted to each other by a force vary­
ing according to the inverse square of the distance;
* Book hi. c. x.
vol. ir. w . p . U
2 9 0 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
without examining, as Herschel and others have done,
the orbits which they really describe. But if the Rule
is not available in such cases, what is its real value and
authority ? and in what cases are they exemplified ?
15. In a former part of this work*, it was shown that
the fundamental laws of motion, and the properties of
matter which these involve, are, after a full consideration
of the subject, unavoidably assumed as universally true.
It was further shown, that although our knowledge of
these laws and properties be gathered from experience,
we are strongly impelled, some philosophers think, autho­
rized, to look upon these as not only universally, but
necessarily true. It was also stated, that the law of gra­
vitation, though its universality may be deemed probable,
does not apparently involve the same necessity as the
fundamental laws of motion. But it was pointed out
that these are some of the most abstruse and difficult
questions of the whole of philosophy; involving the pro­
found, perhaps insoluble, problem of the identity or diver­
sity of Ideas and Things. It cannot, therefore, be deemed
philosophical to cut these Gordian knots by peremptory
maxims, which encourage us to decide without rendering
a reason. Moreover, it appears clear that the reason
which is rendered for this Rule by the Newtonians is
quite untenable; namely, that we know extension, hard­
ness, and inertia, to be universal qualities of bodies by
experience alone, and that we have the same evidence of
experience for the universality of gravitation. We have
already observed that we cannot, with any propriety, say
that we findby experience all bodies are extended. Thi
could not be a just assertion, except we could conceive
the possibility of our finding the contrary. But who can
conceive our finding by experience some bodies which
are not extended? It appears, then, that the reason
* Book nr. c. ix. x. xi.
NEWTON. 291
given for the Third Rule of Newton involves a mistake
respecting the nature and authority of experience. And
the Rule itself cannot be applied without attempting to
decide, by the casual limits of observation, questions
which necessarily depend upon the relations of ideas.
16. Of theFourth Rule.—Newton’s Fourth Rul
that “ Propositions collected from phenomena by induc­
tion, shall be held to be true, notwithstanding contrary
hypotheses; but shall be liable to be rendered more
accurate, or to have their exceptions pointed oQt, by
additional study of phenomena.” This Rule contains
little more than a general assertion of the authority of
induction, accompanied by Newton’s usual protest against
hypotheses.
The really valuable part of the Fourth Rule is that
which implies that a constant verification, and, if neces­
sary, rectification, of truths discovered by induction,
should go on in the scientific world. Even when the
law is, or appears to be, most certainly exact and uni­
versal, it should be constantly exhibited to us afresh in
the form of experience and observation. This is neces­
sary, in order to discover exceptions and modifications
if such exist; and if the law be rigorously true, the
contemplation of it, as exemplified in the world of
phenomena, will best give us that clear apprehension of
its bearings which may lead us to see the ground of its
truth.
The concluding clause of this Fourth Rule appears,
at first, to imply that all inductive propositions are to be
considered as merely provisional and limited, and never
secure from exception. But to judge thus would bo to
underrate the stability and generality of scientific truths ;
for what man of science can suppose that we shall here­
after discover exceptions to the universal gravitation of
all parts of the solar system ? And it is plain that the
U 2
Digitized by Googk
292 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
author did not intend the restriction to be applied so
rigorously; for in the Third Rule, as we have just seen
he authorizes us to infer universal properties of matter
from observation, and carries the liberty of inductive
inference to its full extent. The Third Rule appears to
encourage us to assert a law to be universal, even in cases
in which it has not been tried; the Fourth Rule seems
to warn us that the law may be inaccurate, even in cases
in which it has been tried. Nor is either of these sug­
gestions erroneous; but both the universality and the
rigorous accuracy of our laws are proved by reference to
Ideas rather than to Experience; a truth which, perhaps,
the philosophers of Newton’s time were somewhat dis­
posed to overlook.
17. The disposition to ascribe all our knowledge to
Experience, appears in Newton and the Newtonians by
other indications; for instance, it is seen in their extreme
dislike to the ancient expressions by which the principles
and causes of phenomena were described, as the occult
causes of the Schoolmen, and the forms of the Aristote­
lians, which had been adopted by Bacon. Newton says*,
that the particles of matter not only possess inertia,
but also active principles, as gravity, fermentation, cohe­
sion ; he adds, “ These principles I consider not as Occult
Qualities, supposed to result from the Specific Forms of
things, but as General Laws of Nature, by which the
things themselves are formed: their truth appearing to
us by phenomena, though their causes be not yet dis­
covered. For these are manifest qualities, and their
causes only are occult. And the Aristotelians gave the
name of occult q
u
a
l
i
t
i
e
s
, not to manifest qualities, b
to such qualities only as they supposed to lie hid in
bodies, and to the unknown causes of manifest effects:
such as would be the causes of gravity, and of mag­
* Optics, Qll. 31.
Digitized by Googk
NEWTON. 2 9 3
netick and electrick attractions, and of fermentations,
if we should suppose that these forces or actions arose
from qualities unknown to us, and incapable of being
discovered and made manifest. Such occult qualities
put a stop to the improvement of Natural Philosophy,
and therefore of late years have been rejected. To
tell us that every species of things is endowed with
an occult specific quality by which it acts and produces
manifest effects, is to tell us nothing: but to derive two
or three general principles of motion from phenomena,
and afterwards to tell us how the properties and actions
of all corporeal things follow from these manifest prin­
ciples, would be a great step in philosophy, though the
causes of those principles were not yet discovered: and
therefore I scruple not to propose the principles of motion
above maintained, they being of very general extent, and
leave their causes to be found out.”
18. All that is here said is highly philosophical and
valuable; but we may observe that the investigation of
specificforms, in the sense in which some writers had used
the phrase, was by no means a frivolous or unmeaning
object of inquiry. Bacon and others had used form as
equivalent to lam*. If we could ascertain that arrange­
ment of the particles of a crystal from which its external
crystalline form and other properties arise, this arrange­
ment would be the internalform of the crystal. If the
undulatory theory be true, theform of light is transverse
vibrations: if the emission theory be maintained, th
* Nov. O r g Lib. n, Aph. 2. Licet enim in natura nihil existet
prater corpora individua, edentia actúa puros individuos ex lege; in
doctrinis tamen ilia ipsa lex, ejusque inquisitio, et inventio, et expli­
cado, pro fundamento est tam ad sciendum quam ad operandum. Earn
autem legem, ejusque paragraphs, formarum nomine intelligimus;
praesertim cum hoc vocabulum invaluerit, et familiter occurrat.
Aph. 17. Eadem res est forma calidi vcl forma luminis, et lex
calidi aut lex lijminis.
2 9 4 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
of light is particles moving in straight lines, and deflected
by various forces. Both the terms, and law, imply
an ideal connexion of sensible phenomena; form supposes
matter which is moulded to the form; law supposes
objects which are governed by the law. The former
term refers more precisely to existences, the latter to
occurrences. The latter term is now the more familiar,
and is, perhaps, the better metaphor: but the former also
contains the essential antithesis which belongs to the
subject, and might be used in expressing the same con­
clusions.
But occult causes, employed in the way in which
Newton describes, had certainly been very prejudicial to
the progress of knowledge, by stopping inquiry with a
mere word. The absurdity of such pretended explana­
tions had not escaped ridicule. The pretended physician
in the comedy gives an example of an occult cause or
virtue.
Mill! demandatur
A doctisaimo Doctorc
Quare Opium facit dormire:
Et ego respondco,
Quia cat in eo
Virtu* dormitiva,
Cujus natura cst scnaus assoupire.
19. But the most valuable part of the view presented
to us in the quotation just given from Newton is the
distinct separation, already noticed as peculiarly brought
into prominence by him, of the determination of the
laws of phenomena, and the investigation of their causes.
The maxim, that the former inquiry must precede the
latter, and that if the general laws of facts be discovered,
the result is highly valuable, although the causes remain
unknown, is extremely important; and had not, I think,
ever been so strongly and clearly stated, till Newton both
I
NEWTON. 295
repeatedly promulgated the precept, and added to it the
weight of the most striking examples.
We have seen that Newton, along with views the
most just and important concerning the nature and
methods of science, had something of the tendency, pre­
valent in his time, to suspect or reject, at least specula­
tively, all elements of knowledge except observation.
This tendency was, however, in him so corrected and
restrained by his own wonderful sagacity and mathema­
tical habits, that it scarcely led to any opinion which we
might not safely adopt. But we must now consider the
cases in which this tendency operated in a more unba­
lanced manner, and led to the assertion of doctrines
which, if consistently followed, would destroy the very
foundations of all general and certain knowledge.
C h a p t e r XIV.
LOCKE AND H IS FREN CH FO LLO W ERS.
1. I n the constant opposition and struggle of the
schools of philosophy, which consider our Senses and our
Ideas, respectively, as the principal sources of our know­
ledge, we have seen that at the period of which we now
treat, the tendency was to exalt the external and dis­
parage the internal element. The disposition to ascribe
our knowledge to observation alone, had already, in
Bacon’s time, led him to dwell to a disproportionate
degree upon that half of his subject; and had tinged
Newton’s expressions, though it had not biassed his prac­
tice. But this partiality soon assumed a more prominent
shape, becoming extreme in Locke, and extravagant in
those who professed to follow him.
Indeed Locke appears to owe his popularity and
influence as a popular writer mainly to his being one of
the first to express, in a plain and unhesitating manner,
opinions which had for some time been ripening in the
minds of a large portion of the cultivated public. Hobbes
had already promulgated the main doctrines, which
Locke afterwards urged, on the subject of the origin and
nature of our knowledge: but in him these doctrines
were combined with offensive opinions on points of
morals, government, and religion, so that their access to
general favour was impeded: and it was to Locke that
they were indebted for the extensive influence which they
soon after obtained. Locke owed this authority mainly
to the intellectual circumstances of the time. Although
a writer of great merit, he by no means possesses such
metaphysical acuteness or such philosophical largeness of
view, or such a charm of writing, as must necessarily give
him the high place he has held in the literature of Europe.
But he came at a period when the reign of Ideas was tot­
tering to its fall. All the most active and ambitious spirits
had gone over to the new opinions, and were prepared
to follow the fortunes of the Philosophy of Experiment,
then in the most prosperous and brilliant condition, and
full of still brighter promise. There were, indeed, a few
learned and thoughtful men who still remained faithful
to the empire of Ideas; partly, it may be, from a too
fond attachment to ancient systems; but partly, also,
because they knew that there were subjects of vast im­
portance, in which experience did not form the whole
foundation of our knowledge. They knew, too, that
many of the plausible tenets of the new philosophy were
revivals of fallacies which had been discussed and refuted
in ancient times. But the advocates of mere experience
came on w'ith a vast store of weighty truth among their
artillery, and with the energy which the advance usually
2 9 6 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
LOCKE AND HIS FRENCH FOLLOWERS. 2 9 7
bestows. The ideal system of philosophy could, for the
present, make no effectual resistance; Locke, by putting
himself at the head of the assault, became the hero of his
day: and his name has been used as the watchword of
those who adhere to the philosophy of the senses up to
our own times.
2. Locke himself did not assert the exclusive autho­
rity of the senses in the extreme unmitigated manner in
which some who call themselves his disciples have done.
But this is the common lot of the leaders of revolutions,
for they are usually bound by some ties of affection and
habit to the previous state of things, and would not
destroy all traces of that condition: while their followers
attend, not to their inconsistent wishes, but to the mean­
ing of the revolution itself; and carry out, to their genu­
ine and complete results, the principles which won the
victory, and which have been brought out more sharp
from the conflict. Thus Locke himself does not assert
that all our ideas are derived from Sensation, but from
Sensation and Reflection. But it was easily seen that, in
this assertion, two very heterogeneous elements were
conjoined: that while to pronounce Sensation the origin
of ideas, is a clear decided tenet, the acceptance or rejec­
tion of which determines the general character of our
philosophy; to make the same declaration concerning
Reflection, is in the highest degree vague and ambiguous;
since reflection may either be resolved into a mere modi­
fication of sensation, as was done by one school, or may
mean all that the opposite school opposes to sensation,
under the name of Ideas. Hence the clear and strong
impression which fastened upon men’s minds, and which
does in fact represent all the systematic and consistent
part of Locke’s philosophy, was, that in it all our ideas
are represented as derived from Sensation.
3. We need not spend much time in pointing out
the inconsistencies into which Locke fell; as all must
fall into inconsistencies who recognize no source of know­
ledge except the senses. Thus he maintains that our
Idea of Space is derived from the senses of sight and
touch; our Idea of Solidity from the touch alone. Our
Notion of Substance is an unknown support of unknown
qualities, and is illustrated by the Indian fable of the
tortoise which supports the elephant, which supports the
world. Our Notion of Power or Cause is in like manner
got from the senses. And yet, though these ideas are
thus mere fragments of our experience, Locke does not
hesitate to ascribe to them necessity and universality
when they occur in propositions. Thus he maintains the
necessary truth of geometrical properties: he asserts that
the resistance arising from solidity is absolutely insur­
mountable*; he conceives that nothing short of Omni­
potence can annihilate a particle of matterf; and he has
no misgivings in arguing upon the axiom that Every thing
must have a cause. He does not perceive that, upon his
own account of the origin of our knowledge, we can have
no right to make any of these assertions. If our know­
ledge of the truths which concern the external world
were wholly derived from experience, all that we could
venture to say would be,—that geometrical properties of
figures are true as fa r as me hate tHed them;—that we
have seen no example of a solid body being reduced to
occupy less space by pressure, or of a material substance
annihilated by natural means;—and that wherever m
hate e
x
a
m
in
e
d
, we have found that every change has had
a cause. Experience can never entitle us to declare that
what she has not seen is impossible; still less, that things
which she can not see are certain. Locke himself
intended to throw no doubt upon the certainty of either
human or divine knowledge; but his principles, when
* Book xi. c. iv. sect. 3. t lb., c. xiii. sect. 22*
2 9 8 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
LOCKE AND HIS FRENCH FOLLOWERS. 2 9 9
men discarded the temper in which he applied them,
and the checks to their misapplication which he con­
ceived that he had provided, easily led to a very com­
prehensive scepticism. His doctrines tended to dislodge
from their true bases the most indisputable parts of
knowledge; as, for example, pure and mixed mathe­
matics. It may well be supposed, therefore, that they
shook the foundations of many other parts of knowledge
in the minds of common thinkers.
It was not long before these consequences of the over­
throw of ideas showed themselves in the speculative
world. I have already in a previous part of this work*
mentioned Hume’s sceptical inferences from Locke’s
maxim, that we have no ideas except those which we
acquire by experience; and the doctrines set up in oppo­
sition to this by the metaphysicians of Germany. I
might trace the progress of the sensational opinions
in Britain till the reaction took place here also: but
they were so much more clearly and decidedly followed
out in France, that I shall pursue their history in that
country.
4. The French Followers of Locke, , &p.—
Most of the French writers who adopted Locke’s leading
doctrines, rejected the “ Reflection,” which formed an
anomalous part of his philosophy, and declared that Sen­
sation alone was the source of ideas. Among these
writers, Condillac was the most distinguished. He ex­
pressed the leading tenet of their school in a clear and
pointed manner by saying that “ All ideas are trans­
formed sensations.” We have already considered this
phrasef, and need not here longer dwell upon it.
Opinions such as these tend to annihilate, as we have
seen, one of the two co-ordinate elements of our know­
* Book m. c. iii. Modern Opinions respecting the Idea of Cause,
t B. i. c. iv.
3 0 0 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
ledge. Yet they were far from being so prejudicial to
the progress of science, or even of the philosophy of
science, as might have been anticipated. One reason of
this was, that they were practically corrected, especially
among the cultivators of Natural Philosophy, by the
study of mathematics; for that study did really supply
all that was requisite on the ideal side of science, so
far as the ideas of space, time, and number, were con­
cerned, and partly also with regard to the idea of cause
and others. And the methods of discovery, though
the philosophy of them made no material advance,
were practically employed with so much activity, and
in so many various subjects, that a certain kind of
prudence and skill in this employment was very widely
diffused.
5. Importance of Language.—In one respect this
school of metaphysicians rendered a very valuable service
to the philosophy of science. They brought into pro­
minent notice the great importance of words and terms
in the formation and progress of knowledge, and pointed
out that the office of language is not only to convey and
preserve our thoughts, but to perform the analysis in
which reasoning consists. They were led to this train of
speculation, in a great measure, by taking pure mathe­
matical science as their standard example of substantial
knowledge. Condillac, rejecting, as we have said, almost
all those ideas on which universal and demonstrable
truths must be based, was still not at all disposed to
question the reality of human knowledge; but was, on
the contrary, a zealous admirer of the evidence and con­
nexion which appear in those sciences which have the
ideas of space and number for their foundation, espe­
cially the latter. He looked for the grounds of the
certainty and reality of the knowledge which these sci­
ences contain; and found them, as he conceived, in the
LOCKE AND HIS FRENCH FOLLOWERS. 3 0 1
nature of the language which they employ. The Signs
which are used in arithmetic and algebra enable us to
keep steadily in view the identity of the same quantity
under all the forms which, by composition and decom­
position, it may be made to assume; and these Signs
also not only express the operations which are performed,
but suggest the extension of the operations according to
analogy. Algebra, according to him, is only a very
perfect language; and language answers its purpose of
leading us to truth, by possessing the characteristics of
algebra. Words are the symbols of certain groups of
impressions or facts; they are so selected and applied
as to exhibit the analogies which prevail among these
facts; and these analogies are the truths of which our
knowledge consists. “ Every language is an analytical
method; every analytical method is a language'“;” these
were the truths “ alike new and simple,” as he held,
which he conceived that he had demonstrated. “The art
of speaking, the art of writing, the art of reasoning, the
art of thinking, are only, at bottom, one and the same
artf.” Each of these operations consists in a succession
of analytical operations; and words are the marks by
which we are able to fix our minds upon the steps of
this analysis.
6. The analysis of our impressions and notions does
in reality lead to truth, not only in virtue of the identity
of the whole with its parts, as Condillac held, but also in
virtue of certain Ideas which govern the synthesis of our
sensations, and which contain the elements of universal
truths, as we have all along endeavoured to show. But
although Condillac overlooked or rejected this doctrine,
the importance of words, as marking the successive steps
of this synthesis and analysis, is not less than he repre­
sented it to be. Every truth, once established by indue­
* Langue des Calculi, p. I. t Grammaire, p, xxxvi.
3 0 2 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
tion from facts, when it is become familiar under a brief
and precise form of expression, becomes itself a fact;
and is capable of being employed, along with other facts
of a like kind, as the materials of fresh inductions. In
this successive process, the term, like the cord of a fagot,
both binds together the facts which it includes, and makes
it possible to manage the assemblage as a single thing.
On occasion of most discoveries in science, the selection
of a technical term is an essential part of the proceeding.
In the Histoi'y of Science, we have had numerous oppor­
tunities of remarking this; and the List of technical
terms given as an Index to that work, refers us, by almost
every word, to one such occasion. And these terms,
which thus have had so large a share in the formation of
science, and which constitute its language, do also offer
the means of analyzing its truths, each into its con­
stituent truths; and these into facts more special, till
the original foundations of our most general proposi­
tions are clearly exhibited. The relations of general
and particular truths are most evidently represented by
the Inductive Tables given in Book XI. But each step
in each of these Tables has its proper form of expres­
sion, familiar among the cultivators of science; and the
analysis which our Tables display, is commonly per­
formed in men’s minds, when it becomes necessary, by
fixing the attention successively upon a series of words,
not upon the lines of a Table. Language offers to the
mind such a scale or ladder as the Table offers to the
eye; and as such Tables present to us, as we have said,
the Logic of Induction, that is, the formal conditions of
the soundness of our reasoning from facts, we may with
propriety say that a just analysis of the meaning of words
is an essential portion of Inductive Logic.
In saying this, we must not forget that a decompo­
sition of general truths into ideas, as well as into facts,
Digitized by Googk
LOCKE AND HI8 FRENCH FOLLOWERS. 3 0 3
belongs to our philosophy ; but the point we have here
to remark, is the essential importance of words to the
latter of these processes. And this point had not ever
had its due weight assigned to it till the time of Con­
dillac and other followers of Locke, who pursued their
speculations in the spirit I have just described. The
doctrine of the importance of terms is the most consider­
able addition to the philosophy of science which has been
made since the time of Bacon*.
7. The FrenchEncyclopaedists.—The French Enc
clopédie, published in 1751, of which Diderot and
Dalembert were the editors, may be considered as repre­
senting the leading characters of European philosophy
during the greater part of the eighteenth century. The
writers in this work belong for the most part to the
school of Locke and Condillac ; and we may make a few
remarks upon them, in order to bring into view one or
two points in addition to what we have already said of
that school. The Discours Préliminaire, written by
Dalembert, is celebrated as containing a view of the
origin of our knowledge, and the connexion and classifi­
cation of the sciences.
A tendency of the speculations of the Encyclopedists,
as of the School of Locke in general, is to reject all ideal
principles of connexion among facts, as something which
experience, the only source of true knowledge, does not
give. Hence all certain knowledge consists only in the
recognition of the same thing under different aspects, or
different forms of expression. Axioms are not the result
• Since the selection and construction of terras is thus a matter of
so much consequence in the formation of science, it is proper that
systematic rules, founded upon sound principles, should be laid down
for the performance of this operation. Some such rules are accord­
ingly suggested in a subsequent part of this work.
3 0 4 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
of an original relation of ideas, but of the use, or it may
be the abuse*, of words. In like manner, the propo­
sitions of Geometry are a series of modifications,—of dis­
tortions, so to speak,—of one original truth; much as if
the proposition were stated in the successive forms of
expression presented by a language which was constantly
growing more and more artificial. Several of the sci­
ences which rest upon physical principles, that is, (says
the writer) truths of experience or simple hypotheses,
have only an experimental or hypothetical certainty.
Impenetrability added to the idea of extent is a mystery
in addition: the nature of motion is a riddle for philo­
sophers : the metaphysical principle of the laws of per­
cussion is equally concealed from them. The more
profoundly they study the idea of matter and of the pro­
perties which represent it, the more obscure this idea
becomes; the more completely does it escape them.
8. This is a very common style of reflection, even
down to our own times. I have endeavoured to show
that concerning the Fundamental Ideas of space, of force
and resistance, of substance, external quality, and the
like, we know enough to make these Ideas the grounds
of certain and universal truths;—enough to supply us
with axioms from which we can demonstratively reason.
If men wish for any other knowledge of the nature of
matter than that which ideas, and facts conformable to
ideas, give them, undoubtedly their desire will be frus­
trated, and they will be left in a mysterious vacancy;
for it does not appear how such knowledge as they ask
for could be knowledge at all. But in reality, this com­
plaint of our ignorance of the real nature of things pro­
ceeds from the rejection of ideas, and the assumption of
the senses alone as the ground of knowledge. “ Obser-
* Disc. P r e lim p. viii.
LOCKE AND HIS FRENCH FOLLOWERS. 3 0 5
vation and calculation are the only sources of truth —
this is the motto of the school of which we now speak.
And its import amounts to this:—that they reject all
ideas except the idea of number, and recognize the modi­
fications which parts undergo by addition and subtraction
as the only modes in which true propositions are gene­
rated. The laws of nature are assemblages of facts:
the truths of science are assertions of the identity of
things which are the same. “ By the avowal of almost
all philosophers,” says a writer of this school*, “ the
most sublime truths, when once simplified and reduced
to their lowest terms, are converted into facts, and
thenceforth present to the mind only this proposition;
the white is white, the black is black.”
These statements are true in what they positively
assert, but they involve errour in the denial which by
implication they convey. It is true that observation and
demonstration are the only sources of scientific truth;
but then, demonstration may be founded on other grounds
besides the elementary properties of number. It is true
that the theory of gravitation is but the assertion of a
general fact; but this is so, not because a sound theory
does not involve ideas, but because our apprehension of
a fact does.
9. Another characteristic indication of the temper
of the Encyclopedists and of the age to \Vhich they
belong, is the importance by them assigned to those
practical Arts which minister to man’s comfort and con­
venience. Not only, in the body of the Encyclopedia,
are the Mechanical Arts placed side by side with the
Sciences, and treated at great length; but in the Pre­
liminary Discourse, the preference assigned to the libe­
ral over the mechanical Arts is treated as a prejudicef,
and the value of science is spoken of as measured by its
• Helvetius Sar VHomme, c. xxiii. t P. xiii.
vol. n. w. p. X
utility. “ The discovery of the Mariner’s Compass is not
less advantageous to the human race than the explana­
tion of its properties would be to physics.—Why should
we not esteem those to whom we owe the fusee and the
escapement of watches as much as the inventors of Alge­
bra?” And in the classification of sciences which ac­
companies the Discourse, the labours of artisans of all
kinds have a place.
This classification of the various branches of science
contained in the Dissertation is often spoken of. It
has for its basis the classification proposed by Bacon,
in which the parts of human knowledge are arranged
according to the faculties of the mind in which they
originate; and these faculties are taken, both by Bacon
and by Dalembert, as Memory, Reason, and Imagi­
nation. The insufficiency of Bacon’s arrangement as a
scientific classification is so glaring, that the adoption of
it, with only superficial modifications, at the period of the
Encyclopedia, is a remarkable proof of the want of origi­
nal thought and real philosophy at the time of which we
speak.
10. We need not trace further the opinion which de­
rives all our knowledge from the senses in its application
to the philosophy of Science. Its declared aim is to
reduce all knowledge to the knowledge of Facts; and it
rejects all inquiries which involve the Idea of Cause, and
similar Ideas, describing them as “ metaphysical,” or in
some other damnatory way. It professes, indeed, to dis­
card all Ideas; but, as we have long ago seen, some
Ideas or other are inevitably included even in the sim­
plest Facts. Accordingly the speculations of this school
are compelled to retain the relations of Position, Suc­
cession, Number and Resemblance, which are rigorously
ideal relations. The philosophy of Sensation, in order
to be consistent, ought to reject these Ideas along with
3 0 0 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
LOCKE AND HIS FRENCH FOLLOWERS. 3 0 7
the rest, and to deny altogether the possibility of gene­
ral knowledge.
When the opinions of the Sensational School had
gone to an extreme length, a Reaction naturally began
to take place in men’s minds. Such have been the alter­
nations of opinion, from the earliest ages of human
speculation. Man may perhaps have existed in an
original condition in which he was only aware of the
impressions of Sense; but his first attempts to analyze
his perceptions brought under his notice Ideas as a sepa­
rate element, essential to the existence of knowledge.
Ideas were thenceforth almost the sole subject of the
study of philosophers; of Plato and his disciples, pro­
fessedly ; of Aristotle, and still more of the followers and
commentators of Aristotle, practically. And this con­
tinued till the time of Galileo, when the authority of the
Senses again began to be asserted; for it was shown by
the great discoveries which were then made, that the
Senses had at least some share in the promotion of
knowledge. As discoveries more numerous and more
striking were supplied by Observation, the world gradu­
ally passed over to the opinion that the share which had
been ascribed to Ideas in the formation of real know­
ledge was altogether a delusion, and that Sensation alone
was true. But when this was asserted as a general doc­
trine, both its manifest falsity and its alarming conse­
quences roused men’s minds, and made them recoil from
the extreme point to which they were approaching.
Philosophy again oscillated back towards Ideas; and
over a great part of Europe, in the clearest and most
comprehensive minds, this regression from the dogmas
of the Sensational School is at present the prevailing
movement. We shall conclude our review by noticing a
few indications of this state of things.
X 2
3 0 8 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
Chapter XV.
T H E REACTION AGAINST T H E SENSATIONAL
SCHOOL.
1. W h e n Locke’s Essay appeared, it was easily seen
that its tendency was to urge, in a much more rigorous
sense than had previously been usual, the ancient maxim
of Aristotle, adopted by the schoolmen of the middle ages,
that “ nothing exists in the intellect but what has entered
by the senses.” Leibnitz expressed in a pointed manner
the limitation with which this doctrine had always been
understood. “ Nihil est in intellectu quod non prius
fuerit in sensu;— nempe,"he added, “nisi ipse
To this it has been objected*, that we cannot say that
the intellect is inthe intellect. But this r
obviously frivolous; for the faculties of the understanding
(which are what the argument against the Sensational
School requires us to reserve) may be said to be in the
understanding, with as much justice as we may assert
there are in it the impressions derived from sense. And
when we take account of these faculties, and of the Ideas
to which, by their operation, we necessarily subordinate
our apprehension of phenomena, we are led to a refuta­
tion of the philosophy which makes phenomena, uncon­
nected by Ideas, the source of all knowledge. The
succeeding opponents of the Lockian school insisted upon
and developed in various ways this remark of Leibnitz,
or some equivalent view.
2. It was by inquiries into the foundations of Morals
that English philosophers were led to question the truth
of Locke’s theory. Dr. Price, in his Review of the Prin­
cipal Questions in Morals, first published in 1757, main­
tained that we cannot with propriety assert all our ideas
* See Mr. Sharpe’s Essays.
to be derived from sensation and reflection. He pointed,
out, very steadily, the other source. “ The power, I
assert, that understands, or the faculty within us that dis­
cerns truth, and that compares all the objects of thought
and judgesof them, is a spring of new ideas*.” And he
exhibits the antithesis in various forms. “ Were not
sense and knowledge entirely different, we should rest
satisfied with sensible impressions, such as light, colours
and sounds, and inquire no further about them, at least
when the impressions are strong and vigorous: whereas, on
the contrary, we necessarily desire some further acquaint­
ance with them, and can never be satisfied till we have
subjected them to the survey of reason. Sense presents
particular forms to the mind, but cannot rise to any
general ideas. It is the intellect that examines and
compares the presented forms, that rises above indi­
viduals to universal and abstract ideas; and thus looks
downward ijpon objects, takes in at one view an infinity
of particulars, and is capable of discovering general
truths. Sense sees only the outside of things, reason,
acquaints itself with their natures. Sensation is only a
mode of feeling in the mind; but knowledge implies an
active and vital energy in the mindf.”
3. The necessity of refuting Hume’s inferences from
the raere-sensation system led other writers to limit, in
various ways, their assent to Locke. Especially was this
the case with a number of intelligent metaphysicians in
Scotland, as Reid, Beattie, Dugald Stewart, and Thomas
Brown. Thus Reid assertsJ, “ that the account which
Mr. Locke himself gives of the Idea of Power cannot be
reconciled to his favourite doctrine, that all our simple
ideas have their origin from sensation or reflection.”
Reid remarks, that our memory and our reasoning power
* P. 16. + P. 18.
X Essays on the Potters of the Human Mind, ill. 3L
REACTION AGAINST THE SENSATIONAL SCHOOL. 3 0 9
come in for a share in the origin of this idea: and in
speaking of reasoning, he obviously assumes the axiom
that every event must have a cause. By succeeding
writers of this school, the assumption of the fundamental
principles, to which our nature in such cases irresistibly
directs us, is more clearly pointed out. Thus Stewart
defends the form of expression used by Price*. “A
variety of intuitive judgments might be mentioned, in­
volving simple ideas, which it is impossible to trace to
any origin but to the power which enables us to form
these judgments. Thus it is surely an intuitive truth that
the sensations of which I am conscious, and all those I
remember, belong to one and the same being, which I
call myself. Here is an intuitive judgment involving the
simple idea of Identity. In like manner, the changes
which I perceive in the universe impress me with a con­
viction that some cause must have operated to produce
them. Here is an intuitive judgment involving the sim­
ple Idea of Causation. When we consider the adjacent
angles made by a straight line standing upon another, and
perceive that their sum is equal to two right angles, the
judgment we form involves a simple idea of Equality.
To say, therefore, that the Reason or the Understanding
is a source of new ideas, is not so exceptionable a mode
of speaking as has been sometimes supposed. According
to Locke, Sense furnishes our ideas, and Reason perceives
their agreements and disagreements. But the truth is,
that these agreements and disagreements are in many
instances, simple ideas, of which no analysis can be given;
and of which the origin must therefore be referred to
Reason, according to Locke’s own doctrine.” This view,
according to which the Reason or Understanding is the
source of certain simple ideas, such as Identity, Causation,
Equality, which ideas are necessarily involved in the
* Outlines of Moral Phil., p. 138,
3 1 0 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
REACTION AGAINST THE SENSATIONAL SCHOOL. 3 11
intuitive judgments which we form, when we recognize
fundamental truths of science, approaches very near in
effect to the doctrine which in this work we have pre­
sented, of Fundamental Ideas belonging to each science,
and manifesting themselves in the axioms of the science.
It may be observed, however, that by attempting to enu­
merate these ideas and axioms, so as to lay the founda­
tions of the whole body of physical science; and by
endeavouring, as far as possible, to simplify and connect
each group of such Ideas; we have at least given a more
systematic form to this doctrine. We have, moreover,
traced it into many consequences to which it necessarily
leads, but which do not appear to have been contemplated
by the metaphysicians of the Scotch school. But I
gladly acknowledge my obligations to the writers of that
school; and I trust that in the near agreement of my
views on such points with theirs, there is ground for
believing the system of philosophy which I have in this
work presented, to be that to which the minds of thought­
ful men, who have meditated on such subjects, are gene­
rally tending.
4. As a further instance that such a tendency is at
work, I may make a quotation from an eminent English
philosophical writer of another school. “ If you will be
at the pains,” says Archbishop Whately*, “ carefully to
analyze the simplest description you hear of any transac­
tion or state of things,.you will find that the process
which almost invariably takes place is, in logical lan­
guage, this: that each individual in his mind certain
major premises or principles relative to the subject in
question;—that observation of what actually presents
itself to the senses, supplies minor premises; and that the
statement given (and which is reported as a thing experi­
enced) consists, in fact, of the conclusions drawn from the
* Pollt. E c o n p. 76.
combinations of these premises.” The major premises
here spoken of are the Fundamental Ideas, and the
Axioms and Propositions to which they lead; and what­
ever is regarded as a fact of observation is necessarily
a conclusion in which these propositions are assumed;
for these contain, as we have said, the conditions of our
experience. Our experience conforms to these axioms
and their consequences, whether or not the connexion
be stated in a logical manner, by means of premises and
a conclusion.
5. The same persuasion is also suggested by the
course which the study of metaphysics has taken of late
years in France. In that country, as we have seen, the
Sensational System, which was considered as the necessary
consequence of the revolution begun by Locke, obtained
a more complete ascendancy than it did in England; and
in that country too, the reaction, among metaphysical and
moral writers, when its time came, was more decided and
rapid than it was among Locke’s own countrymen. It
would appear that M, Laromigutere was one of the first
to give expression to this feeling, of the necessity of i
modification of the sensational philosophy. He bgan by
professing himself the disciple of Condillac, even while
he was almost unconsciously subverting the fundamental
principles of that writer. And thus, as M. Cousin justly
observes*, his opinions had the more powerful effect from
being presented, not as thwarting and contradicting, but
as sharing and following out the spirit of his age. M
.
Laromiguiere’s work, entitled sur les FaculUs de
l'Ante, consists of lectures given to the Faculty of Letters
of the Academy of Paris, in the years 1811, 1812 and
1813. In the views which these lectures present, there
is much which the author has in common with Condillac.
But he is led by his investigation to assertf, that it is
• F ragm ent P
h
i
l
o
t
o
p
h
i
q
u
e
t,i. 53. t lb., r. 67.
3 1 2 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
not true that sensation is the sole fundamental element
of our thoughts and our understanding. Attention also is
requisite : and here we have an element of quite another
kind. For sensation is passive; attention is active. At­
tention does not spring out of sensation; the passive
principle is not the reason of the active principle. Acti­
vity and passivity are two facts entirely different. Nor
can this activity be defined or derived; being, as the
author says, a fundamental idea. The distinction is
manifest by its own nature ; and we may find evidence of
it in the very forms of language. To look is more than
to see; to hearken is more than to hear. The French
language marks this distinction with respect to other
senses also. “ On voit, et l’on regarde ; on entend, et l’on
écoute ; on sent, et l’on flaire ; on goûte, et l’on savoure."
And thus the mere sensation, or capacity of feeling, is
only the occasion on which the attention is exercised ;
while the attention is the foundation of all the operations
of the understanding.
The reader of the former part of this work, will have
seen how much we have insisted upon the activity of the
mind, as the necessary basis of all knowledge. In all
observation and experience, the mind is active, and by its
activity apprehends all sensations in subordination to its
own ideas; and thus it becomes capable of collecting
knowledge from phenomena, since ideas involve general
relations and connexions, which sensations of themselves
cannot involve. And thus we see that, in this respect
also, our philosophy stands at that point to which the
speculations of the most reflective men have of late
constantly been verging.
6. M. Cousin himself from whom we have quoted
the above account of Laromiguière, shares in this ten­
dency, and has argued very energetically and successfully
against the doctrines of the Sensational School, lie has
REACTION AGAINST THE SENSATIONAL SCHOOL. 3 1 3
made it his office once more to bring into notice among
his countrymen, the doctrine of ideas as the sources of
knowledge ; and has revived the study of Plato, who may
still be considered as one of the great leaders of the ideal
school. But the larger portion of AL Cousin’s works
refers to questions out of the reach of our present review,
and it would be unsuitable to dwell longer upon them
in this place.
7. We turn to speculations more closely connected
with our present subject. M. Ampère, a French man of
science, well entitled by his extensive knowledge, and
large and profound views, to deal with the philosophy of
the sciences, published in 1834, his Essai sur la Philoso­
phic des Sciences, ou Exposition anahjtique d'un Classi-
Jìcation Naturelle de toutes les Connaissances Humaines.
In this remarkable work we see strong evidence of the
progress of the reaction against the system which derives
our knowledge from sensation only. The author starts
from a maxim, that in classing the sciences, we must not
only regard the nature of the objects about which each
science is concerned, but also the point of view under
which it considers them : that is, the ideas which each
science involves. M. Ampère also gives briefly his views
of the intellectual constitution of man; a subject on which
he had long and sedulously employed his thoughts ; and
these views are far from belonging to the Sensational
School. Human thought, he says, is composed of pheno­
mena and of conceptions. Phenomena are external, or
sensitive; and internal, or active. Conceptions are of four
kinds; primitive,as space and motion, duration and cause;
objective, as our idea of matter and substance; onomatit,
or those which we associate with the general terms which
language presents to us ; and explicative, by which we
ascend to causes after a comparative study of phenomena.
He teaches further, that in deriving ideas from sensation,
3 1 4 REVIEW OP OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
REACTION AGAINST THE SENSATIONAL SCHOOL. 3 1 5
the mind is not passive ; but exerts an action which,
when voluntary, is called attention, but when it is, as it
often is, involuntary, may be termed reaction.
I shall not dwell upon the examination of these
opinions* ; but I may remark, that both in the recogni­
tion of conceptions as an original and essential element
ofthe mind, and in giving a prominent place to the active
function of the mind, in the origin of our knowledge,
this view approaches to that which I have presented in
the preceding part of this work ; although undoubtedly
with considerable differences.
8. The classification of the sciences which M. Ampère
proposes, is founded upon a consideration of the sciences
themselves ; and is, the author conceives, in accordance
with the conditions of natural classifications, as exhibited
in Botany and other sciences. It is of a more symmetri­
cal kind, and exhibits more steps of subordination, than
that to which I have been led ; it includes also practical
Art as well as theoretical Science ; and it is extended to
moral and political as well as physical Sciences. It will
not be necessary for me here to examine it in detail :
but I may remark, that it is throughout a dichotomous
division, each higher number being subdivided into two
lower ones, and so on. In this way, M. Ampère obtains
sciences of the First Order, each of which is divided into
two sciences of the Second, and four of the Third Order.
Thus Mechanics is divided into Cinematics, Statics, D y­
namics, and Molecular M
e
c
h
a
n
Physics is divided
into Experimental Physics, Chemistry, Stereometry, and
Atomology ; Geology is divided into Physical Geography,
Mineralogy, Geonomy, and Theory qf the Earth. With­
out here criticizing these divisions or their principle,
I may observe that Cinematics, the doctrine of motion
• Sec also the vigorous critique of Locke’s Essay, by Lemaistrc>
Soirées de St. Petersburg.
without reference to the force which produces it, is a
portion of knowledge which our investigation has led us
also to see the necessity of erecting into a separate
science; and which we have termed Mechanism.
Of the divisions of Geology, Physical , espe­
cially as explained by M. Ampère, is certainly a part
of the subject, both important and tolerably distinct
from the rest. Geonomy contains what we have termed
in the History, Descriptive ;—the exhibition of
the facts separate from the inquiry into their causes;
while our Physical Geology agrees with M. Ampère’s
Theory of the Earth. Mineralogy appears to be placed
by him in a different place from that which it occupies
in our scheme : but in fact, he uses the term for a
different science ;—he applies it to the classification not
of simple minerals, but of rocks, which is a science auxi­
liary to geology, and which has sometimes been called
Petrology. What we have termed Mineralogy, M. Am­
père unites with Chemistry. “ It belongs,” he says*, “ to
Chemistry, and not to Mineralogy, to inquire how many
atoms of silicium and of oxygen compose silica; to tell
us that its primitive form is a rhombohedron of certain
angles, that it is called quartz, &c.: leaving, on one hand,
to Molecular Geometry the task of explaining the differ­
ent secondary forms which may result from the primitive
form ; and on the other hand, leaving to Mineralogy the
office of describing the different varieties of quartz, and
the rocks in which they occur, according as the quartz is
crystallized, transparent, coloured, amorphous, solid, or
in sand.” But we may remark, that by adopting this
arrangement, we separate from Mineralogy almost all the
knowledge, and absolutely all the general knowledge,
which books professing to treat of that science have
usually contained. The consideration of Mineralogical
3 1 6 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
* P. 210.
REACTION AGAINST THE SENSATIONAL SCHOOL. 317
Classifications, which, as may be seen in the History of
Science, is so curious and instructive, is forced into the
domain of Chemistry, although many of the persons who
figure in it were not at all properly chemists. And we
lose, in this way, the advantage of that peculiar office
which, in our arrangement, Mineralogy fills ; of forming
a rigorous transition from the sciences of classification
to those which consider the mathematical properties of
bodies ; and connecting the external characters and the
internal constitution of bodies by means of a system of
important general truths. I conceive, therefore, that
our disposition of this science, and our mode of apply­
ing the name, are far more convenient than those of
M. Ampère.
9. We have seen the reaction against the pure sensa­
tional doctrines operating very powerfully in England
and in France. But it was in Germany that these doc­
trines were most decidedly rejected ; and systems in
extreme opposition to these put forth with confidence,
and received with applause. Of the authors who gave
this impulse to opinions in that country, Kant was the
first, and by far the most important. I have already
endeavoured to explain how he was roused, by the skep­
ticism of Hume, to examine wherein the fallacy lay
which appeared to invalidate all reasonings from effect to
cause ; and how this inquiry terminated in a conviction
that the foundations of our reasonings on this and similar
points were to be sought in the mind, and not in the
phenomena ;— in the subject and not in the object. The
revolution in the customary mode of contemplating
human knowledge which Kant’s opinions involved, was
most complete. He himself, with no small justice, com­
pares* it with the change produced by Copernicus’s
theory of the solar system. “ Hitherto,” he says, “ men
* Kritik der Reinen Vernunfl, Pref., p. xv.
have assumed that all our knowledge must be regulated
by the objects of it ; yet all attempts to make out any­
thing concerning objects dpriori by
ceptions,” (as for instance their geometrical properties)
“ must, on this foundation, be unavailing. Let us then
try whether we cannot make out something more in the
problems of metaphysics, by assuming that objects must
be regulated by our knowledge, since this agrees better
with that supposition, which we are prompted to make,
that we can kuow something of them d priori. This
thought is like that of Copernicus, who, when he found
that nothing was to be made of the phenomena of the
heavens so long as everything was supposed to turn about
the spectator, tried whether the matter might not be
better explained if he made the spectator turn, and left
the stars at rest. We may make the same essay in
metaphysics, as to what concerns our intuitive knowledge
respecting objects. If our apprehension of objects must
be regulated by the properties of the objects, I cannot
comprehend how we can possibly know anything about
them d priori. But if the object, as apprehended by us,
be regulated by the constitution of our faculties of appre­
hension, I can readily conceive this possibility.” From
this he infers that our experience must be regulated by
our conceptions.
10. This view of the nature of knowledge soon super­
seded entirely the doctrines of the Sensational School
among the metaphysicians of Germany. These philoso­
phers did not gradually modify and reject the dogmas of
Locke and Condillac, as was done in England and
France*; nor did they endeavour to ascertain the extent
* The sensational system never acquired in Germany the ascend­
ancy which it obtained in England and France ; but I am compelled
here to pass over the history of philosophy in Germany, except so far
as it affects ourselves.
3 1 8 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
of the empire of Ideas by a careful survey of its several
provinces, as we have been doing in the previous part of
the present work. The German metaphysicians saw at
once that Ideas and Things, the Subjective and the Ob­
jective elements of our knowledge, w’ere, by Kant’s sys­
tem, brought into opposition and correlation, as equally
real and equally indispensable. Seeing this, they rushed
at once to the highest and most difficult problem of phi­
losophy,—to determine what this correlation is;—to
discover how Ideas and Things are at the same time
opposite and identical;—how the world, while it is dis­
tinct from and independent of us, is yet, as an object
of our knowledge, governed by the conditions of our
thoughts. The attempts to solve this problem, taken in
the widest sense, including the forms which it assumes
in Morals, Politics, the Arts, and Religion, as well as in
the Material Sciences, have, since that time, occupied
the most profound speculators of Germany; and have
given rise to a number of systems, which, rapidly suc­
ceeding each other, have, each in its day, been looked
upon as a complete solution of the problem. To trace
the characters of these various systems, does not be­
long to the business of the present Book: my task at
present is ended when I have showm, as I have now
done, how the progress of thought in the philosophical
world, followed from the earliest up to the present time,
has led to that recognition of the co-existence and joint
necessity of the two opposite elements of our knowledge;
and when I have pointed out processes adapted to the
extension of our knowledge, w’hich a true view of its
nature has suggested or may suggest.
In the latter portion of my task something still
remains to be done, which will be the subject of the
ensuing Book.
REACTION AGAINST THE SENSATIONAL SCHOOL. 3 1 9
320 REVIEW OP OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
Ch a pt e r XVI.
FURTHER ADVANCE OF THE SENSATIONAL
SCHOOL*
I sh all now take the liberty of noticing the views
published by a contemporary writer; not that it forms
part of my design to offer any criticism upon the writ­
ings of all those who have treated of those subjects on
which we are now employed; but because we can more
distinctly in this manner point out the contrasts and
ultimate tendencies of the several systems of opinion
which have come under our survey. And since from
among these systems we have endeavoured to extract
and secure the portion of truth which remains in each,
and to reject the rest, we are led to point out the errours
on which our attention is thus fixed, in recent as well as
older writers.
M. Auguste Comte published in 1830 the first, and'
in 1835 the second volumef of his Cours de Philosophic
Positive; of which the aim is not much different from
that of the present work, since as he states, (p. viii.)
such a title as the Philosophy of the Sciences would de­
scribe a part of his object, and would be inappropriate
only by excluding that portion (not yet published) which
refers to speculations concerning social relations. By
employing the term Philosophic Positive, he wishes to
distinguish the philosophy involved in the present state
of our sciences from the previous forms of human know­
ledge. For according to him, each branch of knowledge
passes, in the course of man’s history, through three
• This chapter, now first published, is printed as it was written
previously to the publication of the former edition.
t I believe I had not then seen the third volume (published in
1838) or the subsequent ones.
different states; it is first theological, then metaphysical,
then positive. By the latter term he implies a state
which includes nothing but general representations of
facts;—phenomena arranged according to relations of
succession and resemblance. This “positive philosophy”
rejects all inquiry after causes, which he holds to be void
ofsense* and inaccessible. All such conceptions belong
to the “ metaphysical ” state of science which deals with
abstract forces, real entities, and the like. Still more
completely does he reject, as altogether antiquated and
absurd, the “ theological” view of phenomena. Indeed
he conceives! that any one’s own consciousness of what
passes within himself is sufficient to convince him of the
truth of the law of the three phases through which
knowledge must pass. “Does not each of us,” he says,
“in contemplating his own history, recollect that he has
been successively a theologian in his infancy, a metaphy­
sician in his youth, and a physicist in his ripe age?
This may easily be verified for all men who are up to the
level of their time.”
It is plain from such statements, and from the whole
course of his work, that M. Comte holds, in their most
rigorous form, the doctrines to which the speculations of
Locke and his successors led; and which tended, as we
have seen, to the exclusion of all ideas except those of
number and resemblance. As M. Comte refuses to admit
into his philosophy the fundamental idea of Cause, he of
course excludes most of the other ideas, which are, as we
endeavoured to show, the foundations of science; such as
the ideas of Media by which secondary qualities are made
known to us; the ideas of Chemical Attraction, of Polar
Forces, and the like. He would reduce all science to the
mere expression of laws of phenomena, expressed in for­
mulae of space, time, and number; and would condemn
• i. p. 14. + i. p. 7-
vol. i i . w. r.
FURTHER ADVANCE OF THE SENSATIONAL SCHOOL. 321
Y
3 2 2 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
as unmeaning, and as belonging to an obsolete state of
science, all endeavours to determine the causes of phe­
nomena, or even to refer them to any of the other ideas
just mentioned.
In a previous part of this work (B. xm. c. vi.) I have
shown, I trust decisively, that it is the genuine office of
science to inquire into the causes as well as the laws of
phenomena;—that such an inquiry cannot be avoided;
and that it has been the source of almost all the science
we possess. I need not here repeat the arguments
there urged; but I may make a remark or two upon
M. Comte’s hypothesis, that all science is first “meta­
physical” and then “ positivesince it is in virtue ofthis
hypothesis that he rejects the investigation of causes,
as worthy only of the infancy of science. All discus­
sions concerning ideas, M. Comte would condemn as
“ metaphysical,” and would consider as mere preludes
to positive philosophy. Now I venture to assert, on the
contrary, that discussions concerning ideas, and real dis­
coveries, have in every science gone hand in hand. There
is no science in which the pretended order of things can
be pointed out. There is no science in which the dis­
coveries of the laws of phenomena, when once beguD,
have been carried on independently of discussions con­
cerning ideas. There is no science in which the expres­
sion of the laws of phenomena can at this time dispense
with ideas which have acquired their place in science in
virtue of metaphysical considerations. There is no sci­
ence in which the most active disquisitions concerning
ideas did not come after, not before, the first discovery
of laws of phenomena. In Astronomy, the discovery of
the phenomenal laws of the epicyclical motions of the
heavens led to assumptions of the metaphysical prin­
ciple of equable circular motions: Kepler’s discoveries
would never have been made but for his metaphysical
notions. These discoveries of the laws of phenomena
did not lead immediately to Newton’s theory, because a
century of metaphysical discussions was requisite as a
preparation. Newton then discovered, not merely a law
of phenomena, but a cause;
and therefore he
greatest of discoverers. The same is the case in Optics;
the ancients possessed some share of our knowledge of
facts; but meddled little with the metaphysical reason­
ings of the subject. In modern times when men began
to inquire into the nature of light, they soon extended
their knowledge of its lam. When this series of dis­
coveries had come to a pause, a new series of brilliant
discoveries of laws of phenomena went on, inseparably
connected with a new series of views of the nature and
cause of light. In like manner, the most modern dis­
coveries in chemistry involve indispensably the idea of
polar forces. The metaphysics (in M. Comte’s sense) of
each subject advances in a parallel line with the know­
ledge of physical laws. The Explication of Conceptions
must go on, as we have already shown, at the same rate
as the Colligation of Facts.
M. Comte will say* that Newton’s discovery of gra­
vitation only consists in exhibiting the astronomical phe­
nomena of the universe as one single fact under different
points of view. But this factinvolves the idea
that is, of cause. And that this idea is not a mere modi­
fication of the ideas of time and space, we have shown:
if it were so, how could it lead to the axiom that attrac­
tion is mutual, an indispensable part of the Newtonian
theory? M. Comte saysf that we do not know what
attraction is, since we can only define it by identical
phrases: but this is just as true of space, or time, or
motion; and is in fact exactly the characteristick of a
ftmdamental idea. We do not obtain such ideas from
* P . 15. + P. 16.
Y 2
FURTHER ADVANCE OF THE SENSATIONAL SCHOOL. 3 2 3
definitions, but we possess them not the less truly be­
cause we cannot define them.
That M. Comte’s hypothesis is historically false, is
obvious by such examples as I have mentioned. Meta­
physical discussions have been essential steps in the pro­
gress of each science. If we arbitrarily reject all these
portions of scientific history as useless trifling, belonging
to the first rude attempts at knowledge, we shall not
only distort the progress of things, but pervert the plain­
est facts. Of this we have an example in M. Comte’s
account of Kepler’s mechanical speculations. We have
seen, in the History of Physical Astronomy, that Kepler's
second law, (that the planets describe areas about the
sun proportional to the times,) was proved by him, by
means of calculations founded on the observations of
Tycho; but that the mechanical reason of it was not
assigned till a later period, when it appeared as the first
proposition of Newton’s Principia. It is plain from the
writings of Kepler, that it was impossible for him to
show how this law resulted from the forces which were
in action; since the forces which he considered were not
those tending to the center, which really determine the
property in question, but forces exerted by the sun
the direction of the planet's m, wit
Kepler conceived that the motion could not go on. In
short, the state of mechanical science in Kepler’s time
was such that no demonstration of the law could be
given. The terms in which such a demonstration must
be expressed had not at that time acquired a precise
significance; and it was in virtue of many subsequent
metaphysical discussions (as M. Comte would term them)
that these terms became capable of expressing sound
mechanical reasoning. Kepler did indeed pretend to
assign what he called a “physical proof” of his law, de­
pending upon this, that the sun’s force is less at greater
3 2 4 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
FURTHER ADVANCE OF THE SENSATIONAL SCHOOL. 325
distances ; a condition which does not at all influence the
result. Thus Kepler’s reason for his law proves nothing
but the confusion of thought in which he was involved
on such subjects. Yet M. Comte assigns to Kepler the
credit of having proved this law by sound mechanical
reasoning, as well as established it as a matter of fact*.
“This discovery by Kepler,” he adds, “ is the more re­
markable, inasmuch as it occurred before the science of
dynamics had really been created by Galileo.” We may
remark that inasmuch as M. Comte perceived this incon­
gruity in the facts as he stated them, it is the more re­
markable that he did not examine them more carefully.
The condemnation of the inquiry into causes which
is conveyed in M. Comte’s notion of the three stages
of Science, he again expresses more in detail, in stating f
* M. Comtes statement is so entirely at variance with the fact that
I must quote it here. (Phil. Pos. VoL i. p. 705.)
“ Le second théorème general de dynamique consiste dans le célébré
et important principe des aires, dont le première idée est due à Kepler,
qui découvrit et démontra forte simplement cette propriété pour le cas du
mouvement d'une molecule unique, ou en d'autres terms, d'un corps
dont tous les points se meuvent identiquement. Kepler établit, par les
considérations les plus élémentaires, qui si la force accélératrice totale
dont une molecule est animée tend constamment vers un point fixé, le
rayon vecteur du mobile décrit autour de ce point des aires égales en
tems égaux, de telle sorte que l'aire décrite au bout d'un temps quel­
conque croît proportionellement à ce temps. Il fit voir en outre que
réciproquement, si une semblable relation a été vérifiée dans le mouve­
ment d'un corps per rapport à un certain point, c'est une preuve suffi­
sante de l'action sur le corps d’un force dirigée sans cesse vers ce point."
There is not a trace of the above propositions in the work De Stella
Marti*, which contains Kepler’s discovery of his law, nor, I am con­
vinced, in any other of Kepler's works He is everywhere constant to
his conceptions of the magnetic virtue residing in the sun, by means of
which the sun, revolving on his axis, carries the planets round with him
M. Comte's statement so exactly expresses Newtons propositions, that
one is led to suspect some exraordinary mistake, by which what should
have been said of the one was transferred to the other.
+ Vol. ii. P. 433.
what he calls his Fundamental theory of hypotheses.
This ‘theory’ is, that we may employ hypotheses in
our natural philosophy, but these hypotheses must
always be such as admit of a positive verification. We
must have no suppositions concerning the agents by
which effects are produced. All such have an anti­
scientific character, and can only impede the real pro­
gress of physics. There can be no use in the ethers
and imaginary fluids to which some persons refer the
phenomena of heat, light, electricity and magnetism.
And in agreement with this doctrine, M. Comte in his
account* of the Science of Optics, condemns, as utterly
unphilosophical and absurd, both the theory of emission
and that of undulation.
To this we reply, that theory of one or other kind
is indispensable to the expression of the phenomena;
and that when the laws are expressed, and apparently
explained, by means of a theory, to forbid us to inquire
whether it be really true or false, is a pedantic and
capricious limitation of our knowledge, to which the
intellect of man neither can nor should submit. If any
one holds the adoption of one or other of these theories
to be indifferent, let him express the laws ofphenomena
of diffraction in terms of the theory of emissionf. If
any one rejects the doctrine of undulation, let him point
out some other way of connecting double refraction
with polarization. And surely no man of science will
contend that the beautiful branch of science which
refers to that connexion is not a portion of our positive
knowledge.
M. Comte’s contempt for the speculations of the
* Vol. n. p. 640.
t I venture to offer this problem;—to express the latcs of the phe­
nomena of diffraction without the hypothesis of undulations;—as a chal­
lenge to any one who holds such hypothesis to be unphilosophical.
326 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
Digitized by Googk
undulationists seems to have prevented his acquainting
himself with their reasonings, and even with the laws
of phenomena on which they have reasoned, although
these form by far the most striking and beautiful addi­
tion which Science has received in modern times. He
adduces, as an insuperable objection to the undulatory
theory, a difficulty which is fully removed by calculation
in every work on the subject:—the existence of sha­
dow*. He barely mentions the subject of diffraction,
and Young’s law of interferences;—speaks of Fresnel
as having applied this principle to the phenomena of
coloured rings, “ on which the ingenious labours of
Newton left much to desire;” as if Fresnel’s labours
on this subject had been the supplement of those of
Newton: and after regretting that “ this principle of
interferences has not yet been distinctly disentangled
from chemical conceptions on the nature of light,” con­
cludes his chapter. He does not even mention the
phenomena of dipolarization, of circular and elliptical
polarization, or of the optical properties of crystals;
discoveries of laws of phenomena quite as remarkable
as any which can be mentioned.
M. Comte’s favourite example of physical research
is Thermotics, and especially Fourier’s researches with
regard to heat. It is shown f in the History of Ther­
motics, that the general phenomena of radiation required
the assumption of a fluid to express them; as appears in
the theory of exchanges\.And the explanation of the
principal laws of radiation, which Fourier gives, depends
upon the conception of material molecular radiation.
The flux of caloric, of which Fourier speaks, cannot be
conceived otherwise than as implying a material flow.
M. Comte apologizes § for this expression, as too figu-
* n . p. 641. + ii. p .6 73 .
t H u t. Ind. Sex. ii. 489, B. x. c. i. § n. p. 591.
FURTHER ADVANCE OF THE SENSATIONAL SCHOOL. 327
rative, and says that it merely indicates a But
what is the flow of a current of fluid except a feet ? And
is it not evident that without such expressions, and the
ideas corresponding to them, Fourier could neither have
conveyed nor conceived his theory ?
In concluding this discussion, it must be recollected,
that though it is a most narrow and untenable rule to
say that we will admit no agency of ethers and fluids
into philosophy; yet the reality of such agents is onlyto
be held in the way, and to the extent, which the laws
of phenomena indicate. It is not only allowable, but
inevitable to assume, as the vehicle of heat and light, a
medium possessing some of the properties of more fami­
liar kinds of matter. But the idea of such a medium,
which we possess, and on which we cannot but reason,
can be fully developed only by an assiduous study of
the cases in which it is applicable. It may be, that as
science advances, all our knowledge may converge
to one general and single aspect of the universe. We
abandon and reject this hope, if we refuse to admit
those ideas which must be our stepping-stones in ad­
vancing to such a point: and we no less frustrate such
an expectation, if we allow ourselves to imagine that
from our present position we can stride at once to the
summit.
But if it is, in the sciences just mentioned, impracti­
cable to reduce our knowledge to laws of phenomena
alone, without referring to causes, media, and other
agencies; how much more plainly is it impossible to
confine our thoughts to phenomena, and to laws of
succession and resemblance, in other sciences, as chemis­
try, physiology, and geology? Who shall forbid us, or
why should we be forbidden, to inquire whether chemi­
cal and galvanic forces are identical; whether irritability
is a peculiar vital power; whether geological causes have
328 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
been uniform or paroxysmal? To exclude such inqui­
ries, would be to secure ourselves from the poison of
errour by abstaining from the banquet of truth:—it
would be to attempt to feed our minds with the meagre
diet of space and number, because we may find too
delightful a relish in such matters as cause and end,
symmetry and affinity, organization and developement.
Thus M. Comte’s arrangement of the progress of sci­
ence as successively metaphysical and positive, is contrary
to history in fact, and contrary to sound philosophy in
principle. Nor is there any better foundation for his state­
ment that theological views are to be found only in the
rude infantine condition of human knowledge, and vanish
as science advances. Even in material sciences this is
not the case. We have shown in the chapter on Final
Causes, that physiologists have been directed in their
remarks by the conviction of a purpose in every part of
the structure of animals; and that this idea, which had
its rise after the first observations, has gone on constantly
gaining strength and clearness, so that it is now the basis
ofa large portion of the science. We have seen, too, in
the Book on the palaetiological sciences, that the re­
searches of that class do by no means lead us to reject
an origin of the series of events, nor to suppose this
origin to be included in the series of natural laws.
Science has not at all shown any reason for denying
either the creation or the purpose of the universe.
This is true of those aspects of the universe which
have become the subjects of rigorous science: but how
mall a portion of the whole do they form! Especially
how minute a proportion does our knowledge bear to
our ignorance, if we admit into science, as M. Comte
advises, only the laws of phenomena! Even in the best
explored fields of science, how few such laws do we
know! Meteorology, climate, terrestrial magnetism, the
FURTHER ADVANCE OF THE SENSATIONAL SCHOOL. 329
colours and other properties of bodies, the conditions of
musical and articulate sound, and a thousand other facts
of physics, are not defined by any known laws. In
physiology we may readily convince ourselves how little
we know of laws, since we can hardly study one species
without discovering some unguessed property, or apply
the microscope without seeing some new structure in the
best known organs. And when we go on to social and
moral and political matters, we may well doubt whether
any one single rigorous rule of phenomena has ever been
stated, although on such subjects man’s ideas have been
busily and eagerly working ever since his origin. What
a wanton and baseless assumption it would be, then, to
reject those suggestions of a Governor of the universe
which we derive from man’s moral and spiritual nature,
and from the institutions of society, because we fancy
we see in the small field of our existing *positive know­
ledge ’ a tendency to exclude *theological views !’ Be­
cause we can explain the motion of the stars by a
general Law which seems to imply no hyperphysical
agency, and can trace a few more limited laws in
other properties of matter, we are exhorted to reject
convictions irresistibly suggested to us by our bodies and
our souls, by history and antiquities, by conscience and
human law.
It is not merely as a speculative doctrine that M.
Comte urges the necessity of our thus following the
guidance of “ positive philosophy.” The fevered and
revolutionary condition of human society at present
arises, according to him*, from the simultaneous employ­
ment of three kinds of philosophy radically incom­
patible;—theological, metaphysical, and positive philo­
sophy. The remedy for the evil is to reject the two
former, and to refer everything to that positive philo-
‘ i.5 0 .
330 BEVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
FURTHER ADVANCE OF THE SENSATIONAL SCHOOL. 3 3 1
sophy, of which the destined triumph cannot be doubtful.
In like manner, our European education* still essen­
tially theological, metaphysical, and literary, must be
replaced by a positive education, suited to the spirit
of our epoch.
With these practical consequences of M. Comte’s
philosophy we are not here concerned: but the notice
of them may serve to show how entirely the rejection of
the theological view pervades his system; and how
closely this rejection is connected with the principles
which lead him also to reject the fundamental ideas of
the sciences as we have presented them.
In the detail of M. Comte’s work, I do not find any
peculiar or novel remarks on the induction by which the
sciences are formed; except we may notice, as such, his
permission ofhypotheses to the enquirer, already referred
to. “ There can only be,” he says f, “ two general modes
fitted to reveal to us, in a direct and entirely rational
maimer, the true law of any phenomenon;—either the
immediate analysis of this phenomenon, or its exact and
evident relation to some more extended law, previously
established;—in a word, i
n
d
u
c,or deduction
both these ways would certainly be insufficient, even
with regard to the simplest phenomenon, in the eyes of
any one who fully comprehends the essential difficulties
of the intimate study of nature, if we did not often begin
by anticipating the result, and making a provisory sup­
position, at first essentially conjectural, even with respect
to some of the notions which constitute the final object
of enquiry. Hence the introduction, which is strictly
indispensable, of hypotheses in natural philosophy.” We
have already seen that the “ permissio intellectus ” had
been noticed as a requisite step in discovery, as long
before as the time of Bacon.
+ ii.4ai.
i. 41.
I do not think it necessary to examine in detail M
.
Comte’s views of the philosophy of the different sciences;
but it may illustrate the object of the present work, to
make a remark upon his attempt to establish a distinc­
tion between physical and chemical science. This dis­
tinction he makes to consist in three points*;—that
Physics considers general and Chemistry special proper­
ties ;—that Physics considers masses and Chemistry mole­
cules ;—that in Physics the mode of arrangement of the
molecules remains constant, while in Chemistry this
arrangement is necessarily altered. M. Comte however
allows that these lines of distinction are vague and inse­
cure; for, among many others, magnetism, a special
property, belongs to physics, and breaks down his first
criterion; and molecular attractions are a constant sub­
ject of speculation in physics, so that the second distinc­
tion cannot be insisted on. To which we may add that
the greater portion of chemistry does not attend at all
to the arrangement of the molecules, so that the third
character is quite erroneous. The real distinction of
these branches of science is, as we have seen, the funda­
mental ideas which they employ. Physics deals with
relations of space, time, and number, media, and scales of
qualities, according to intensity and other differences;
while Chemistry has for its subject elements and attrac­
tions as shown in composition; and polarity, though in
different senses, belongs to both. The failure of this
attempt at distinguishing these provinces of science by
their objects, may be looked upon as an illustration of
the impossibility of establishing a philosophy of the sci­
ences on any other ground than the ideas which they
involve.
We have thus traced to its extreme point, so far as
the nature of science is concerned, one of those two
* Phil. P m .i
i. 392—39
3 3 2 REVIEW OF OPINIONS ON KNOWLEDGE.
antagonist opinions, of which the struggle began in the
outset of philosophy, and has continued during the whole
of her progress;—namely, the opinions which respec­
tively make our sensations and our ideas the origin of
our knowledge. The former, if it be consistent with
itselfj must consider all knowledge of causes as impos­
sible, since no sensation can give us the idea of cause.
And when this opinion is applied to science, it reduces it
to the mere investigation of laws of phenomena, accord­
ing to relations. I purposely abstain, as far as possible,
from the consideration of the other consequences, not
strictly belonging to the physical sciences, which were
drawn from the doctrine that all our ideas are only
transformed sensations. The materialism, the atheism,
the sensualist morality, the anarchical polity, which some
of the disciples of the Sensational School erected upon
the fundamental dogmas of their sect, do not belong to
our present subject, and are matters too weighty to be
treated of as mere accessories.
FURTHER ADVANCE OF THE SENSATIONAL SCHOOL. 333
3 3 4
BOOK XIII.
OF METHODS EM PLOYED IN THE FORMA­
TION OF SCIENCE.
C h a p t e r I.
I N T R O D U C T I O N .
1. I n the last Book but one of this work, we pointed
out certain general Characters of scientific knowledge
which may often serve to distinguish it from opinions of
a looser or vaguer kind. In the last Book we traced the
steps by which men were led to a perception, more or
less clear, of those characteristics ; and in the course of
this review, we had to consider various precepts and
maxims offered by philosophers as fitted to guide us in
the pursuit of exact and general truths. Other contri­
butions of the same kind to the philosophy of science
might be noticed, and some which contain more valuable
suggestions, and indicate a more practical acquaintance
with the subject than any which have yet been quoted.
Among these, I must especially distinguish Sir John
Herschel’s Discourse on the Study qf Natural Philo­
sophy. But my object in this work is not so much to
relate the history, as to present the really valuable re­
sults of preceding labours. I shall, therefore, proceed
no further with the criticism of other authors ; but shall
endeavour to collect, both from them and from my own
researches and reflections, such views and such rules as
INTRODUCTION. 3 3 5
seem best adapted to assist us in the discovery and
recognition of scientific truth; or, at least, such as may
enable us to understand the process by which this truth
is obtained. We would present to the reader the Phi­
losophy and, if possible, the Art, of Discovery.
2. But, in truth, we must acknowledge, before we
proceed with this subject, that, speaking with strictness,
an A rt of Discovery is not possible;—that we can give
no Rules for the pursuit of truth which shall be univer­
sally and peremptorily applicable;—and that the helps
which we can offer to the inquirer in such cases are
limited and precarious. Still, we trust it will be found
that aids may be pointed out which are neither worthless
nor uninstructive. The mere classification of examples
of successful inquiry, to which our rules give occasion, is
full of interest for the philosophical speculator. And if
our maxims direct the discoverer to no operations which
might not have occurred of themselves, they may still
concentrate our attention on that which is most impor­
tant and characteristic in these operations, and may
direct us to the best mode of insuring their success. I
shall, therefore, attempt to resolve the Process of Dis­
covery into its parts, and to give an account as distinct
as may be of Rules and Methods which belong to each
portion of the process.
3. In the Eleventh Book we considered the three
main parts of the process by which science is constructed:
namely, the Decomposition and Observation of Complex
Facts; the Explication of our Ideal Conceptions; and
the Colligation of Elementary Facts by means of those
Conceptions. The first and last of these three steps are
capable of receiving additional accuracy by peculiar pro­
cesses. They may further the advance of science in a
more effectual manner, when directed by special technical
Methods, of which in the present Book we must give a
brief view. In this more technical form, the observation
of facts involves the Measurement of Phenomena; and
the Colligation of Facts includes all arts and rules by
which the process of Induction can be assisted. Hence
we shall have here to consider Methods of Observation,
and Methods of Induction, using these phrases in the
widest sense. The second of the three steps above men­
tioned, the Explication of our Conceptions, does not
admit of being much assisted by methods, although
something may be done by Education and Discussion.
4. The Methods of Induction, of which we have to
speak, apply only to the first step in our ascent from
phenomena to laws of nature;—the discovery of Lam
Of Phenomena. A higher and ulterior step remains
behind, and follows in natural order the discovery of
Laws of Phenomena; namely, the Discovery of Causes;
and this must be stated as a distinct and essential pro­
cess in a complete view of the course of science. Again,
when we have thus ascended to the causes of phenomena
and of their laws, we can often reason downwards from
the cause so discovered; and we are thus led to sug­
gestions of new phenomena, or to new explanations of
phenomena already known. Such proceedings may be
termed Applications of our Discoveries; including in
the phrase, Verifications of our Doctrines by such an
application of them to observed facts. Hence we have
the following series of processes concerned in the for­
mation of science.
(1.) Decomposition of Facts;
(2.) Measurement of Phenomena;
(3.) Explication of Conceptions;
(4.) Induction of Laws of Phenomena;
(5.) Induction of Causes;
(6.) Application of Inductive Discoveries.
f>. Of these six processes, the methods by which the
3 3 6 METHODS EMPLOYED IN THE FORMATION OF SCIENCE.
INTRODUCTION'. 3 3 7
second and fourth may be assisted are here our peculiar
object of attention. The treatment of these subjects in
the present work must necessarily be scanty and imper­
fect, although we may perhaps be able to add something
to what has hitherto been systematically taught on these
heads. Methods of Observation and of Induction might
of themselves form an abundant subject for a treatise,
and hereafter probably will do so, in the hands of future
writers. A few remarks, offered as contributions to this
subject, may serve to show how extensive it is, and how
much more ready it now is than it ever before was, for a
systematic discussion.
Of the above steps of the formation of science, the
first, the Decomposition of Facts, has already been suffi­
ciently explained in the Eleventh Book: for if we pur­
sue it into further detail and exactitude, we find that we
gradually trench upon some of the succeeding parts. I,
therefore, proceed to treat of the second step, the Mea­
surement of Phenomena;—of methods by which this
work, in its widest sense, is executed, and these I shall
term Methods of Observation.
C h a p t e r II.
O F M ETHODS OF OBSERVATION.
1. I s h a l l speak, in this chapter, of Methods of
exact and systematic observation, by which such facts
are collected as form the materials of precise scientific
propositions. These Methods are very various, according
to the nature of the subject inquired into, and other cir­
cumstances : but a great portion of them agree in being
processes of measurement. These I shall peculiarly eon?
VOL. II. w . p. Z
sider: and in the first place those referring to Number,
Space, and Time, which are at the same time objects and
instruments of measurement.
2. But though we have to explain how observations
may be made as perfect as possible, we must not forget
that in most cases complete perfection is unattainable.
Observations are never p
e
r
f
e
c
t
. For we o
mena by our senses, and measure their relations in time
and space; but our senses and our measures are all, from
various causes, inaccurate. If we have to observe the
exact place of the moon among the stars, how much of
instrumental apparatus is necessary! This apparatus
has been improved by many successive generations of
astronomers, yet it is still far from being perfect. And
the senses of man, as well as his implements, are limited
in their exactness. Two different observers do not
obtain precisely the same measures of the time and
place of a phenomenon; as, for instance, of the moment
at which the moon occults a star, and the point of her ,
limb at which the occultation takes place. Here, then, |
is a source of inaccuracy and errour, even in astronomy, ,
where the means of exact observation are incomparably
more complete than they are in any other department
of human research. In other cases, the task of obtain­
ing accurate measures is far more difficult. If we have
to observe the tides of the ocean when rippled with
waves, we can see the average level of the water first
rise and then fall; but how hard is it to select the exact
moment when it is at its greatest height, or the exact
highest point which it reaches! It is very easy, in such
a case, to err by many minutes in time, and by several
inches in space.
Still, in many cases, good Methods can remove very i
much of this inaccuracy, and to these we now proceed.
. 3. (I.) Number.—Number is the first step of mea-
338 METHODS EMPLOYED IN THE FORMATION OF SCIENCE.
METHODS OF OBSERVATION. 33.0
surement, since it measures itself, and does not, like
space and time, require an arbitrary standard. Hence the
first exact observations, and the first advances of rigor­
ous knowledge, appear to have been made by means of
number; as for example,—the number of days in a
month and in a year;—the cycles according to which
eclipses occur;—the number of days in the revolutions
of the planets; and the like. All these discoveries, as
we have seen in the History of Astronomy, go back to
the earliest period of the science, anterior to any distinct
tradition; and these discoveries presuppose a series,
probably a very long series, of observations, made prin­
cipally by means of number. Nations so rude as to
have no other means of exact measurement, have still
systems of numeration by which they can reckon to a
considerable extent. Very often, such nations have very
complex systems, which are capable of expressing num­
bers of great magnitude. Number supplies the means
of measuring other quantities, by the assumption of a
unit of measure of the appropriate kind: but where
nature supplies the unit, number is applicable directly
and immediately. Number is an important element in
the Classificatory as well as in the Mathematical Sciences.
The History of those Sciences shows how the formation
of botanical systems was effected by the adoption of
number as a leading element by Caesalpinus; and how
afterwards the Reform of Linnaeus in classification de­
pended in a great degree on his finding, in the pistils
and stamens, a better numerical basis than those before
employed. In like manner, the number of rays in the
membrane of the gills*, and the number of rays in the
fins of fish, were found to be important elements in
ichthyological classification by Artedi and Linnaeus.
There are innumerable instances, in all parts of Natural
* Hut. Ind. Sd., B. xvi. c. vii.
Z 2
History, of the importance of the observation of number.
And in this observation, no instrument, scale or standard
is needed, or can be applied; except the scale of natural
numbers, expressed either in words or in figures, can be
considered as an instrument.
4. (II.) Measurement of Space.—Of quantities ad­
mitting of continuous increase and decrease, (for number
is discontinuous,) space is the most simple in its mode
of measurement, and requires most frequently to be mea­
sured. The obvious mode of measuring space is by the
repeated application of a material measure, as when we
take a foot-rule and measure the length of a room. And
in this case the foot-rule is the unit of space, and the
length of the room is expressed by the number of such
units which it contains: or, as it may not contain an
exact number, by a number with a fraction. But be­
sides this measurement of linear space, there is another
kind of space which, for purposes of science, it is still
more important to measure, namely, angular space.
The visible heavens being considered as a sphere, thfr
portions and paths of the heavenly bodies are determined
by drawing circles on the surface of this sphere, and are
expressed by means of the parts of these circles thus
intercepted: by such measures the doctrines of astro­
nomy were obtained in the very beginning of the science.
The arcs of circles thus measured, are not like Unear
spaces, reckoned by means of an arbitrary unit; for
there is a natural u
n
i
t
, the total circumferenc
all arcs may be referred. For the sake of convenience,
the whole circumference is divided into 360 parts or
degrees; and by means of these degrees and their parts,
all arcs are expressed. The arcs are the measures of
the angles at the c
e
n
t
e
r
, and the degrees may
sidered indifferently as measuring the one or the other
of these quantities.
3 4 0 METHODS EMPLOYED IN THE FORMATION OF SCIENCE.
METHODS OF OBSERVATION. 34 1
5. In the History of Astronomy *, I have described
the method of observation of celestial angles employed
by the Greeks. They determined the lines in which the
heavenly bodies were seen, by means either of Shadows,
or of Sights; and measured the angles between such
lines by arcs or rules properly applied to them. The
Armill, Astrolabe, Dioptra, and Parallactic Instrument
of the ancients, were some of the instruments thus con­
structed. Tycho Brahe greatly improved the methods
of astronomical observation by giving steadiness to the
frame of his instruments, (which were large quadrants,)
and accuracy to the divisions of the limb f . But the
application of the telescope to the astronomical quadrant
and the fixation of the center of the field by a cross of
fine wires placed in the focus, was an immense improve­
ment of the instrument, since it substituted a precise
visual ray, pointing to the star, instead of the coarse
coincidence of Sights. The accuracy of observation was
still further increased by applying to the telescope a
micrometer which might subdivide the smaller divisions
of the arc.
6. By this means, the precision of astronomical ob­
servation was made so great, that very minute angular
spaces could be measured: and it then became a ques­
tion whether discrepancies which appeared at first as
defects in the theory, might not arise sometimes from
a bending or shaking of the instrument, and from the
degrees marked on the limb being really somewhat un­
equal, instead of being rigorously equal. Accordingly,
the framing and balancing of the instrument, so as to
avoid all possible tremor or flexure, and the exact divi­
sion of an arc into equal parts, became great objects of
those who wished to improve astronomical observations.
The observer no longer gazed at the stars from a lofty
* Hist. Ind. S c i B. in. c. iv. sect. 3. + Ibid., B. v i i . c. vi.'ecct. L
34'2 METHODS EMPLOYED IN THE FOHMATION OF SCIENCE.
tower, but placed his telescope on the solid ground, and
braced and balanced it with various contrivances. In­
stead of a quadrant, an entire circle was introduced (by
Ramsden ;) and various processes were invented for the
dividing of instruments. Among these we may notice
Troughton’s method of dividing; in which the visual ray
of a microscope was substituted for the points of a pair
of compasses, and, by stepping round the circle, the par­
tial arcs were made to bear their exact relation to the
whole circumference. .
7. Astronomy is not the only science which depends
on the measurement of angles. Crystallography also
requires exact measures of this kind; and the
meter, especially that devised by Wollaston, supplies the
means of obtaining such measures. The science of
Optics also, in many cases, requires the measurement of
angles.
8. In the measurement of linear space, there is no
natural standard which offers itself. Most of the com­
mon measures appear to be taken from some part of the
human body; as afoot, a c
u
b
i
t,afatho
sures cannot possess any precision, and are altered by
convention: thus there were in ancient times many
kinds of cubits; and in modern Europe, there are a
great number of different standards of the foot, as the
Rhenish foot, the Paris foot, the English foot. It is very
desirable that, if possible, some permanent standard,
founded in nature, should be adopted; for the conven­
tional measures are lost in the course of ages; and thus,
dimensions expressed by means of them become unintel­
ligible. Two different natural standards have been
employed in modern times: the French have referred
their measures of length to the total circumference of
a meridian of the earth; a quadrant of this meridian
consists of ten million units or metres. The English
METHODS OF OBSERVATION. 3 4 3
have fixed their linear measure by reference to the
length of a pendulum which employs an exact second of
time in its small oscillation. Both these methods occa­
sion considerable difficulties in carrying them into effect;
and are to be considered mainly as means of recovering
the standard if it should ever be lost. For common
purposes, some material standard is adopted as authority
for the time: for example, the standard which in Eng­
land possessed legal authority upi to the year 1835 was
preserved in the House of Parliament; and was lost in
the conflagration which destroyed that edifice. The
standard of length now generally referred to by men of
science in England is that which is in the possession of
the Astronomical Society of London.
9. A standard of length being established, the arti­
fices for applying it, and for subdividing it in the most
accurate manner, are nearly the same as in the case of
measures of arcs: as for instance, the employment of
the visual rays of microscopes instead of the legs of com­
passes and the edges of rules; the use of micrometers
for minute measurements; and the like. Many different
modes of avoiding errour in such measurements have
been devised by various observers, according to the
nature of the cases with which they had to deal*.
10. (III.) Measurement of Time.—The methods of
measuring Time are not so obvious as the methods of
measuring space; for we cannot apply one portion of
time to another, so as to test their equality. We are
obliged to begin by assuming some change as the mea­
sure of time. Thus the motion of the sun in the sky, or
the length and position of the shadows of objects, were
the first modes of measuring the parts of the day. But
• On the precautions employed in astrononomical instruments for
the measure of space, see Sir J. Herechers Astronomy, (in the Cabinet
Cyclopaedia,) Arts. 103— 110.
what assurance had men, or what assurance could they
have, that the motion of the sun or of the shadow was
uniform ? They could have no such assurance, till they
had adopted some measure ofsmaller times; which smaller
times, making up larger times by repetition, they took as
the standard of uniformity;—for example, an hour-glass,
or a clepsydra which answered the same purpose among
the ancients. There is no apparent reason why the suc­
cessive periods measured by the emptying of the hour­
glass should be unequal; they are implicitly accepted
as equal; and by reference to these, the uniformity of
the sun’s motion may be verified. But the great im­
provement in the measurement of time was the use of a
pendulum for the purpose by Galileo, and the applica­
tion of this device to clocks by Huyghens in 1656. For
the successive oscillations of a pendulum are rigorously
equal, and a clock is only a train of machinery employed
for the purpose of counting these oscillations. By means
of this invention, the measure of time in astronomical
observations became as accurate as the measure of space.
11. What is the natural unit of time? It was as­
sumed from the first by the Greek astronomers, that the
sidereal days, measured by the revolution of a star from
any meridian to the same meridian again, are exactly
equal; and all improvements in the measure of time
tended to confirm this assumption. The sidereal day is
therefore the natural standard of time. But the solar
day, determined by the diurnal revolution of the sun,
although not rigorously invariable, as the sidereal day is,
undergoes scarcely any perceptible variation; and since
the course of daily occurrences is regulated by the sun,
it is far more convenient to seek the basis of our unit
of time in Ms motions. Accordingly the solar day (the
mean solar day) is divided into 24 hours, and these,
into minutes and seconds; and this is our scale of time.
3 4 4 METHODS EMPLOYED IN THE FORMATION OF SCIENCE.
METHODS OF OBSERVATION. 3 4 5
Of such time, the sidereal day has 23 hours 56 minutes
4 09 seconds. And it is plain that by such a statement
the length of the hour is fixed, with reference to a side­
real day. The standard of time (and the standard of
space in like manner) equally answers its purpose,
whether or not it coincides with any whole number of
units.
- 12. Since the sidereal day is thus the standard of our
measures of time, it becomes desirable to refer to it, con­
stantly and exactly, the instruments by which time is
measured, in order that we may secure ourselves against
errour. For this purpose, in astronomical observatories,
observations are constantly made of the transit of stars
across the meridian; the transit instrument with which
this is done being adjusted with all imaginable regard to
accuracy*.
13. When exact measures of time are required in
other than astronomical observations, the same instru­
ments are still used, namely, clocks and chronometers.
In chronometers, the regulating part is an oscillating
body; not, as in clocks, a pendulum oscillating by the
force of gravity, but a wheel swinging to and fro on its
center, in consequence of the vibrations of a slender coil
of elastic wire. To divide time into still smaller portions
than these vibrations, other artifices are used; some of
which will be mentioned under the next head.
14. (IV.) Conversion ofSpace and Time.—Space and
time agree in being extended quantities, which are made
up and measured by the repetition of homogeneous
parts. If a body move uniformly, whether in the way
of revolving or otherwise, the space which any point
describes, is proportional to the time of its motion; and
the space and the time may each be taken as a measure
• On the precautions employed in the measure of time hy astrono­
mers, see Herschel's Astro*., Art. 115—127-
of the other. Hence in such cases, by taking space in­
stead of time, or time instead of space, we may often
obtain more convenient and precise measures, than we
can by measuring directly the element with which we
are concerned.
The most prominent example of such a conversion, is
the measurement of the Right Ascension of stars, (that
is, their angular distance from a standard meridian* on
the celestial sphere,) by means of the time employed in
their coming to the meridian of the place of observation.
Since, as we have already stated, the visible celestial
sphere, carrying the fixed stars, revolves with perfect uni­
formity about the pole; if we observe the stars as they
come in succession to a fixed circle passing through the
poles, the intervals of time between these observations
will be proportional to the angles which the meridian
circles passing through these stars make at the poles
where they meet; and hence, if we have the means of
measuring time with great accuracy, we can, by watching
the times of the transits of successive stars across some
visible mark in our own meridian, determine the angular
distances of the meridian circles of all the stars from one
another.
Accordingly, now that the pendulum clock affords
astronomers the means of determining time exactly, a
measurement of the Right Ascensions of heavenly bodies
by means of a clock and a transit instrument, is a part of
the regular business of an observatory. If the sidereal
clock be so adjusted that it marks the beginning of its
scale of time when the first point of Right Ascension is
upon the visible meridian of our observatory, the point
of the scale at which the clock points when any other
• A meridian is a circle passing through the poles about which the
celestial sphere revolves. The meridian of any place on the earth is
that meridian which is exactly over the place.
3 4 6 METHODS EMPLOYED IN THE FORMATION OF SCIENCE.
METHODS OF OBSERVATION. 347
star is in our meridian, will truly represent the Right
Ascension of the star.
Thus as the motion of the stars is our measure of
time, we employ time, conversely, as our measure of the
places of the stars. The celestial machine and our ter­
restrial machines correspond to each other in their move­
ments; and the star steals silently and steadily across
our meridian line, just as the pointer of the clock steals
past the mark of the hour. We may judge of the scale
of this motion by considering that the full moon employs
about two minutes of time in sailing across any fixed line
seen against the sky, transverse to her path : and all the
celestial bodies, carried along by the revolving sphere,
travel at the same rate.
15. In this case, up to a certain degree, we render
our measures, of astronomical angles more exact and
convenient by substituting time for space; but when, in
the very same kind of observation, we wish to proceed
to a greater degree of accuracy, we find that it is best
done by substituting space for time. In observing the
transit of a star across the meridian, if we have the clock
within hearing, we can count the beats of the pendulum
by the noise which they make, and tell exactly at which
second of time the passage of the star across the visible
thread takes place; and thus we measure Right Ascen­
sion by means of time. But our perception of time does
not allow us to divide a second into ten parts, and to
pronounce whether the transit takes place three-tenths,
six-tenths, or seven-tenths of a second after the pre­
ceding beat of the clock. This, however, can be done
by the usual mode of observing the transit of a star.
The observer, listening to the beat of his clock, fastens
his attention upon the star at each beat, and especially
at the one immediately before and the one immediately
after the passage of the thread: and by this means he
has these two positions and the positions of the thread so
far present to his intuition at once, that he can judge in
what proportion the thread is nearer to one position than
the other, and can thus divide the intervening second
in its due proportion. Thus if he observe that at the
beginning of the second the star is on one side of the
thread, and at the end of the second on the other side;
and that the two distances from the thread are as two to
three, he knows that the transit took place at two-fifths
(or four-tenths) of a second after the former beat. In
this way a second of time in astronomical observations
may, by a skilful observer, be divided into ten equal
parts; although when time is observed as time, a tenth
of a second appears almost to escape our senses. From
the above explanation, it will be seen that the reason
why the subdivision is possible in the way thus described,
is this:—that the moment of time thus to be divided is
so small, that the eye and the mind can retain, to the
end of this moment, the impression of position which it
received at the beginning. Though the two positions of
the star, and the intermediate thread, are seen succes­
sively, they can be contemplated by the mind as if they
were seen simultaneously: and thus it is precisely the
smallness of this portion of time which enables us to
subdivide it by means of space.
16. There is another case, of somewhat a different
kind, in which time is employed in measuring space;
namely, when space, or the standard of space, is defined
by the length of a pendulum oscillating in a given time.
We might in this way define any space by the time which
a pendulum of such a length would take in oscillating;
and thus we might speak, as was observed by those who
suggested this device, of five minutes of cloth, or a rope
half an hour long. We may observe, however, that in
this case, the space is notproportional t
3 4 8 METHODS EMPLOYED IN THE FORMATION OF SCIENCE.
METHODS OF OBSERVATION. 3 4 9
we may add, that though we thus appear to avoid the
arbitrary standard of space (for as we have seen, the
standard of measures of time is a natural one,) we do not
do so in fact: for we assume the invariableness of gra­
vity, which really varies (though very slightly,) from
place to place.
17. (V.) The Method of Repetition in .
—In many cases we can give great additional accuracy
to our measurements by repeatedly adding to itself the
quantity which we wish to measure. Thus if we wished
to ascertain the exact breadth of a thread, it might not
be easy to determine whether it was one-ninetieth, or
one-ninety-fifth, or one-hundredth part of an inch; but if
we find that ninety-six such threads placed side by side
occupy exactly an inch, we have the precise measure of
the breadth of the thread. In the same manner, if two
clocks are going nearly at the same rate, we may not be
able to distinguish the excess of an oscillation of one of
the pendulums over an oscillation of the other: but when
the two clocks have gone for an hour, one of them may
have gained ten seconds upon the other; thus showing
that the proportion of their times of oscillation is 3610
to 3600.
In the latter of these instances, we have the principle
of repetition truly exemplified, because (as has been
justly observed by Sir J. llerschel*,) there is then “a
juxtaposition of units without errour,”—“ one vibration
commences exactly where the last terminates, no part of
time being lost or gained in the addition of the units so
counted.” In space, this juxtaposition of units without
errour cannot be rigorously accomplished, since the units
must be added together by material contact (as in the
case of the threads,) or in some equivalent manner. Yet
the principle of repetition has been applied to angular
• D u e .N a t. P
h
Art. 121.
3 5 0 METHODS EMPLOYED IN THE FORMATION OF SCIENCE.
measurement with considerable success in Borda’s Re­
peating Circle. In this instrument, the angle between
two objects which we have to observe, is repeated along
the graduated limb of the circle by turning the telescope
from one object to the other, alternately fastened to the
circle (by its damp) and loose from it (by unolamping).
In this manner the errours of graduation may (theore­
tically) be entirely got rid o f: for if an angle repeated
nine times be found to go twice round the circle, it must
be exactly eighty degrees: and where the repetition does
not give an exact number of circumferences, it may still
be made to subdivide the errour to any required extent.
18. Connected with the principle of repetition, is the
Method of coincidences or interferences. If we have two
Scales, on one of which an inch is divided into 10, and
on the other into 11 equal parts; and if, these Scales
being placed side by side, it appear that the beginning of
the latter Scale is between the 2nd and 3rd division of
the former, it may not be apparent what fraction added
to 2 determines the place of beginning of the second
Scale as measured on the first. But if it appear also
that the 3rd division of the second Scale coincides with
a certain division of the first, (the 5th,) it is certain that
2 and three-tenths is the exact place of the beginning of
the second Scale, measured on the first Scale. The 3rd
division of the 11 Scale will coincide (or interfere with)
a division of the 10 Scale, when the beginning or zero of
the 11 divisions is three-tenths of a division beyond the
preceding line of the 10 Scale; as will be plain on a
little consideration. And if we have two Scales of equal
units, in which each unit is divided into nearly, but not
quite, the same number of equal parts (as 10 and 11, 19
and 20, 29 and 30,) and one sliding on the other, it will
always happen that some one or other of the division
lines will coincide, or very nearly coincide; and thus the
METHODS OF OBSERVATION. 351
exact position of the beginning of one unit, measured on
the other scale, is determined. A sliding scale, thus divided
for the purpose of subdividing the units of that on which
it slides, is called a Vernier, from the name ofits inventor.
19. The same Principle of Coincidence or Interfer­
ence is applied to the exact measurement of the length
of time occupied in the oscillation of a pendulum. If a
detached pendulum, of such a length as to swing in little
less than a second, be placed before the seconds’ pendu­
lum of a clock, and if the two pendulums begin to move
together, the former will gain upon the latter, and in a
little while their motions will be quite discordant. But
if we go on watching, we shall find them, after a time,
to agree again exactly; namely, when the detached pen­
dulum has gained one complete oscillation (back and
forwards,) upon the clock pendulum, and again coincides
with it in its motion. If this happen after 5 minutes,
we know that the times of oscillation of the two pen­
dulums are in the proportion of 300 to 302, and there­
fore the detached pendulum oscillates in of a second.
The accuracy which can be obtained in the measure of
an oscillation by this means is great; for the clock can
be compared (by observing transits of the stars or other­
wise) with the natural standard of time, the sidereal day.
And the moment of coincidence of the two pendulums
may, by proper arrangements, be very exactly determined.
We have hitherto spoken of methods of measuring
time and space, but other elements also may be very
precisely measured by various means.
20. (VI.) Measurement of Weight.—Weight, like
space and time, is a quantity made up by addition of
parts, and may be measured by similar methods. The
principle of repetition is applicable to the measurement
of weight; for if two bodies be put in the same pan of a
balance and balances the same pieces, in the other pan,
their weights are exactly added.
There may be difficulties of practical workmanship in
carrying into effect the mathematical conditions of a per­
fect balance; for example, in securing an exact equality
of the effective arms of the beam in all positions. These
difficulties are evaded by the Method double neighing;
according to which the standard weights, and the body
which is to be weighed, are successively put in the same
pan, and made to balance by a third body in the opposite
scale. By this means the different lengths of the arms
of the beam, and other imperfections of the balance,
become of no consequence*.
21. There is no natural Standard of weight. The
conventional weight taken as the standard, is the weight
of a given bulk of some known substance; for instance,
a cubic foot of nater. But in order that this may be
definite, the water must not contain any portion of hete­
rogeneous substance: hence it is required that the water
be distilled water.
22. (VII.) Measurement of Secondary .—
We have already seen* that secondary qualities are esti­
mated by means of conventional Scales, which refer them
to space, number, or some other definite expression.
Thus the Thermometer measures heat; the Musical
Scale, with or without the aid of number, expresses the
pitch of a note; and we may have an exact and com­
plete Scale of Colours, pure and impure. We may re­
mark, however, that with regard to sound and colour,
the estimates of the ear and the eye are not superseded,
but only assisted: for if we determine what a note is, by
* For other methods of measuring weights accurately, see Fara­
day's Chemical Manipulation, p. 25.
+ Book h i. c. iu Of the Measure of Secondary Qualities*
3 5 2 METHODS EMPLOYED IN TIIE FORMATION OF SCIENCE.
Digitized by Googk
METHODS OF OBSERVATION. 3 5 3
comparing it with an instrument known to be in tune,
we still leave the ear to decide when the note is uni­
son with one of the notes of the instrument. And when
we compare a colour with our chromatometer, we judge
bythe eye which division of the chromatometer it matches.
Colour and sound have their Natural Scales, which the
eye and ear habitually apply; what science requires is,
that those scales should be systematized. We have seen
that several conditions are requisite in such scales of
qualities: the observer’s skill and ingenuity are mainly
shown in devising such scales and methods of applying
them.
23. The Method of Coincidences is employed in har­
monics: for if two notes are nearly, but not quite, in
unison, the coincidences of the vibrations produce an
audible undulation in the note, which is called the howl;
and the exactness of the unison is known by this howl
vanishing.
24. (VIII.) Manipulation.—The process of applying
practically methods of experiment and observation, is
termed Manipulation; and the value of observations
depends much upon the proficiency of the observer in
this art. This skill appears, as we have said, not only in
devising means and modes of measuring results, but also
in inventing and executing arrangements by which ele­
ments are subjected to such conditions as the investiga­
tion requires: in finding and using some material combi­
nation by which nature shall be asked the question which
we have in our minds. To do this in any subject may be
considered as a peculiar Art, but especially in Chemistry;
where “ many experiments, and even whole trains of
research, are essentially dependent for success on mere
manipulation*.” The changes which the chemist has to
study,—compositions, decompositions, and mutualactions,
• Faraday's Chemical Manipulation, p. 3.
VOL. IT. W . P. A a
3 5 4 METHODS EMPLOYED IN THE FORMATION OF SCIENCE.
affecting the internal structure rather than the external
form and motion of bodies,—are not familiarly recog­
nized by common observers, as those actions are which
operate upon the total mass of a body: and hence it is
only when the chemist has become, to a certain degree,
familiar with his science, that he has the power of ob­
serving. He must learn to interpret the effects of mix­
ture, heat, and other chemical agencies, so as to see in
them those facts which chemistry makes the basis of her
doctrines. And in learning to interpret this language,
he must also learn to call it forth;—to place bodies
under the requisite conditions, by the apparatus of his
own laboratory and the operations of his own fingers.
To do this with readiness and precision, is, as we have
said, an Art, both of the mind and of the hand, in no
small degree recondite and difficult. A person may be
well acquainted with all the doctrines of chemistry, and
may yet fail in the simplest experiment. How many
precautions and observances, what resource and inven­
tion, what delicacy and vigilance, are requisite in Che­
mical Manipulation, may be seen by reference to Dr.
Faraday’s work on that subject.
25. The same qualities in the observer are requisite
in some other departments of science; for example, in
the researches of Optics: for in these, after the first
broad facts have been noticed, the remaining features of
the phenomena are both very complex and very minute;
and require both ingenuity in the invention of experi­
ments, and a keen scrutiny of their results. We have
instances of the application of these qualities in most of
the optical experimenters of recent times, and certainly
in no one more than Sir David Brewster. Omitting here
all notice of his succeeding labours, his Treatise on New
Philosophical Instruments, published in 1813, is an
excellent model of the kind of resource and skill of
METHODS OF OBSERVATION. 3 5 5
which we now speak. I may mention as an example of
this skill, his mode of determining the refractive power
of an irregular fragment of any transparent substance.
At first this might appear an impossible problem; for it
would seem that a regular and smooth surface are requi­
site, in order that we may have any measurable refrac­
tion. But Sir David Brewster overcame the difficulty
by immersing the fragment in a combination of fluids, so
mixed, that they had the same refractive power as the
specimen. The question, when they had this power, was
answered by noticing when the fragment became so
transparent that its surface could hardly be seen; for
this happened when, the refractive power within and
without the fragment being the same, there was no
refraction at the surface. And this condition being
obtained, the refractive power of the fluid, and therefore
of the fragment, was easily ascertained.
26. (IX.) The Education of the Senses.—Colour and
Musical Tone are, as we have seen, determined by means
of the Senses, whether or not Systematical Scales are
used in expressing the observed fact. Systematical
Scales of sensible qualities, however, not only give pre­
cision to the record, but to the observation. But for
this purpose such an Education of the Senses is requisite
as may enable us to apply the scale immediately. The
memory must retain the sensation or perception to which
the technical term or degree of the scale refers. Thus
with regard to colour, as we have said already*, when
we find such terms as tin-white or pinchbeck-bi'own, the
metallic colour so denoted ought to occur at once to our
recollection without delay or search. The observer’s
senses, therefore, must be educated, at first by an actual
exhibition of the standard, and afterwards by a familiar
use o f it, to understand readily and clearly each phrase
* Book vin. c. iii. Terminology.
A A 2
and degree of the scales which in his observations he has
to apply. This is not only the best, but in many cases
the only way in which the observation can be expressed.
Thus glassy lustre,fatty lustre, adamantine lustre, denote
certain kinds of shining in minerals, which appearances
we should endeavour in vain to describe by periphrasis;
and which the terms, if considered as terms in common
language, would by no means clearly discriminate: for
who, in common language, would say that coal has a
fatty lustre? But these terms, in their conventional
sense, are perfectly definite ; and when the eye is once
familiarized with this application of them, are easily and
clearly intelligible.
27. The education of the senses, which is thus requi­
site in order to understand well the terminology of any
science, must be acquired by an inspection of the objects
which the science deals with; and is, perhaps, best pro­
moted by the practical study of Natural History. In the
different departments of Natural History, the descriptions
of species are given by means of an extensive technical
t e r m i n o l o g y :and that education of which we no
ought to produce the effect of making the observer as
familiar with each of these terras as we are with the
words of our common language. The technical terms have
a much more precise meaning than other terms, since
they are defined by express convention, and not learnt by
common usage merely. Yet though they are thus defined,
not the definition, but the perception itself is that which
the term suggests to the proficient.
In order to use the terminology to any good purpose,
the student must possess it, not as a dictionary, but as a
language. The terminology of his sciences must be the
natural historian’s most familiar tongue. He must learn
to think in such language. And when this is achieved,
the terminology, as I have elsewhere said, though to an
3 5 6 METHODS EMPLOYED IN THE FORMATION OF SCIENCE.
METHODS OF OBSERVATION. 3 5 7
uneducated eye cumbrous and pedantical, is felt to be a
useful implement, not an oppressive burden*. The im­
patient schoolboy looks upon his grammar and vocabulary
as irksome and burdensome; but the accomplished stu­
dent who has learnt the language by means of them,
knows that they have given him the means of expressing
what he thinks, and even of thinking more precisely.
And as the study of language thus gives precision to
the thoughts, the study of Natural History, and especi­
ally of the descriptive part of it, gives precision to the
senses.
The Education of the Senses is also greatly promoted
bythe practical pursuit of any science of experiment and
observation, as chemistry or astronomy. The methods of
manipulating, of which we have just spoken, in chemistry,
and the methods of measuring extremely minute portions
of space and time which are employed in astronomy, and
which are described in the former part of this chapter, are
among the best modes of educating the senses for pur­
poses of scientific observation.
28. By the various Methods of precise observation
which we have thus very briefly described, facts are col­
lected, of an exact and definite kind; they are then bound
together in general laws, by the aid of general ideas and
of such methods as we have now to consider. It is true,
that the ideas which enable us to combine facts into
general propositions, do commonly operate in our minds
while we are still engaged in the office of observing.
Ideas of one kind or other are requisite to connect our
phenomena into facts, and to give meaning to the terms
of our descriptions: and it frequently happens, that long
before we have collected all the facts which induction
requires, the mind catches the suggestion which some of
these ideas offer, and leaps forwards to a conjectural law
* Hut. Ind. Sex., B. xvi. c. iv. sect. 2.
while the labour of observation is yet unfinished. But
though this actually occurs, it is easy to see that the
process of combining and generalizing facts is, in the
order of nature, posterior to, and distinct from, the pro­
cess of observing facts. Not only is this so, but there is
an intermediate step which, though inseparable from all
successful generalization, may be distinguished from it in
our survey; and may, in some degree, be assisted by
peculiar methods. To the consideration of such methods
we now proceed.
3 5 8 METHODS EMPLOYED IN THE FORMATION OF SCIENCE.
Chapter III.
OF METHODS OF ACQUIRING CLEAR SCIENTIFIC
IDEAS ; and firit OF INTELLECTUAL
EDUCATION.
The ways in which men become masters of those
clear and yet comprehensive conceptions wich the for­
mation and reception of science require, are mainly two;
which, although we cannot reduce them to any exact
scheme, we may still, in a loose use of the term, call
Methods of acquiring clear Ideas. These two ways are
Education and Discussion.
1. (I.) Idea ofSpace.—It is easily seen that Education
may do at least something to render our ideas distinct
and precise. To learn Geometry in youth, tends, mani­
festly, to render our idea of space clear and exact. By
such an education, all the relations, all the consequences
of this idea, come to be readily and steadily apprehended;
and thus it becomes easy for us to understand portions of
science which otherwise we should by no means be able
to comprehend. The conception of similar triangles was
to be mastered, before the disciples of Thales could see
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 3 5 9
the validity of his method of determining the height of
lofty objeets by the length of their shadows. The con­
ception of thesphere with its circles had to become fami­
liar, before the annual motion of the sun and its influence
upon the lengths of days could b# rightly traced. The
properties of circles, combined with the pure* doctrine
of motion, were required as an introduction to the
theory of Epicycles: the properties of conic sections
were needed, as a preparation for the discoveries of
Kepler. And not only was it necessary that men
should possess a knowledge of certain figures and their
properties; but it was equally necessary that they
should have the habit qf reasoning with perfect steadi­
ness, precision, and conclusiveness concerning the re­
lations of space. No small discipline of the mind is
requisite, in most cases, to accustom it to go, with
complete insight and security, through the demonstra­
tions respecting intersecting planes and lines, dihedral
and trihedral angles, which occur in solid geometry. Yet
how absolutely necessary is a perfect mastery of such
reasonings, to him who is to explain the motions of the
moon in latitude and longitude! How necessary, again,
is the same faculty to the student of crystallography!
Without mathematical habits of conception and of think­
ing, these portions of science are perfectly inaccessible.
But the early study of plane and solid geometry gives to
all tolerably gifted persons, the habits which are thus
needed. The discipline of following the reasonings of
didactic works on this subject, till we are quite familiar
with them, and of devising for ourselves reasonings of the
same kind, (as, for instance, the solutions of problems
proposed,) soon gives the mind the power of discoursing
with perfect facility concerning the most complex and
multiplied relations of space, and enables us to refer to
the properties of all plane and solid figures as surely as
* See Book u. c. xiii.
to the visible forms of objects. Thus we have here a
signal instance of the efficacy of education in giving to
our Conceptions that clearness, which the formation and
existence of science indispensably require.
2. It is not my intuition here to enter into the details
of the form which should be given to education, in order
that it may answer the purposes now contemplated. But
I may make a remark, which the above examples naturally
suggest, that in a mathematical education, considered as
a preparation for furthering or understanding physical
science, Geometry is to be cultivated, far rather than
Algebra:—the properties of space are to be studied and
reasoned upon as they are in themselves, not as they are
replaced and disguised by symbolical representations. It
is true, that when the student is become quite familiar
with elementary geometry, he may often enable himself
to deal in a more rapid and comprehensive manner with
the relations of space, by using the language of symbols
and the principles of symbolical calculation: but this is
an ulterior step, which may be added to, but can never
be substituted for, the direct cultivation of geometry.
The method of symbolical reasoning employed upon sub­
jects of geometry and mechanics, has certainly achieved
some remarkable triumphs in the treatment of the theory
of the universe. These successful applications of symbols
in the highest problems of physical astronomy appear to
have made some teachers of mathematics imagine that it
is best to begin the pupil’s course with such symbolical
generalities. But this mode of proceeding will be so far
from giving the student clear ideas of mathematical rela­
tions, that it will involve him in utter confusion, and
probaby prevent his ever obtaining a firm footing in geo­
metry. To commence mathematics in such a way, would
be much as if we should begin the study of a language by
reading the highest strains of its lyrical poetry.
3. (II.) Idea of Number, <
%
c.—The study of mathe-
3 6 0 METHODS EMPLOYED IN THE FORMATION OF 8C1ENCE.
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 361
matics, as I need hardly observe, develops and renders
exact, our conceptions of the relations of number, as well
as of space. And although, as we have already noticed,
even in their original form the conceptions of number are
for the most part very distinct, they may be still further
improved by such discipline. In complex cases, a metho­
dical cultivation of the mind in such subjects is needed: *
for instance, questions concerning cycles, and intercala­
tions, and epacts, and the like, require very great steadi­
ness of arithmetical apprehension in order that the rea-
soner may deal with them rightly. In the same manner,
a mastery of problems belonging to the science of Pure
Motion, or, as I have termed it, Mechanism, requires
either great natural aptitude in the student, or a mind
properly disciplined by suitable branches of mathematical
study.
4. Arithmetic and Geometry have long been standard
portions of the education of cultured persons throughout
the civilized world; and hence all such persons have
been able to accept and comprehend those portions of
science which depend upon the idea of space: for instance,
the doctrine of the globulaT form of the earth, with its
consequences, such as the measures of latitude and longi­
tude ;— the heliocentric system of the universe in modern,
or the geocentric in ancient times;—the explanation of
the rainbow; and the like. In nations where there is no
such education, these portions of science cannot exist as
a part of the general stock of the knowledge of society,
however intelligently they may be pursued by single
philosophers dispersed here and there in the community.
5. (III.) Idea of Force,—As the idea of Space is
brought out in its full evidence by the study of Geometry,
so the idea of Force is called up and developed by the
study of the science of Mechanics. It has already been
shown, in our scrutiny of the Ideas of the Mechanical
Sciences, that Force, the Cause of motion or of equi­
librium, involves an independent Fundamental Idea, and
is quite incapable of being resolved into any mere modi­
fication of our conceptions of space, time, and motion.
And in order that the student may possess this idea
in a precise and manifest shape, he must pursue the
* science of Mechanics in the mode which this view of
its nature demands;—that is, he must study it as an
independent science, resting on solid elementary prin­
ciples of its own, and not built upon some other un­
mechanical science as its substructure. He must trace
the truths of Mechanics from their own axioms and
definitions; these axioms and definitions being consi­
dered as merely means of bringing into play the Idea on
which the science depends. The conceptions of force
and matter, of action and reaction, of momentum and
inertia, with the reasonings in which they are involved,
cannot be evaded by any substitution of lines or symbols
for the conceptions. Any attempts at such substitution
would render the study of Mechanics useless as a prepa­
ration of the mind for physical science; and would, in­
deed, except counteracted by great natural clearness of
thought on such subjects, fill the mind with confused and
vague notions, quite unavailing for any purposes of sound
reasoning. But, on the other hand, the study of Mecha­
nics, in its genuine form, as a branch of education, is fitted
to give a most useful and valuable precision of thought
on such subjects; and is the more to be recommended,
since, in the general habits of most men’s minds, the
mechanical conceptions are tainted with far greater ob­
scurity and perplexity than belongs to the conceptions
of number, space, and motion.
6. As habitually distinct conceptions of space and
motion were requisite for the reception of the doctrines
of formal astronomy, (the Ptolemaic and Copernican
3 6 2 METHODS EMPLOYED IN THE FORMATION OF SCIENCE.
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 3 6 3
system,) so a clear and steady conception of force is
indispensably necessary for understanding the Newtonian
system of physical astronomy. It may be objected that
the study of Mechanics as a science has not commonly
formed part of a liberal education in Europe, and yet
that educated persons have commonly accepted the New­
tonian system. But to this we reply, that although most
persons of good intellectual culture have professed to
assent to the Newtonian system of the universe, yet they
have, in fact, entertained it in so vague and perplexed a
manner as to show very clearly that a better mental
preparation than the usual one is necessary,* in order that
such persons may really understand the doctrine of
universal attraction. I have already spoken of the pre­
valent indistinctness of mechanical conceptions*; and
need not here dwell upon the indications, constantly
occurring in conversation and in literature, of the utter
inaccuracy of thought on such subjects which may often
be detected; for instance, in the mode in which many
men speak of centrifugal and centripetal forces;—of pro­
jectile and central forces;—of the effect of the moon
upon the waters of the ocean; and the like. The inco­
herence of ideas which we frequently witness on such
points, shows us clearly that, in the minds of a great
number of men, well educated according to the present
standard, the acceptance of the doctrine of universal
gravitation is a result of traditional prejudice, not of
rational conviction. And those who are Newtonians on
such grounds, are not at all more intellectually advanced
by being Newtonians in the nineteenth century, than
they would have been by being Ptolemaics in the fif­
teenth.
7. It is undoubtedly in the highest degree desirable
that all great advances in science should become the
* B . h i. c. x.
3 6 4 METHODS EMPLOYED IN THE FORMATION OF SCIENCE.
common property of all cultivated men. And this can
only be done by introducing into the course of a liberal
education such studies as unfold and fix in men’s minds
the fundamental ideas upon which the new-discovered
truths rest. The progress made by the ancients in geo­
graphy, astronomy, and other sciences, led them to assign,
wisely and well, a place to arithmetic and geometry
among the steps of an ingenuous education. The disco­
veries of modern times have rendered these steps still
more indispensable; for we cannot consider a man as
cultivated up to the standard of his times, if he is not
only ignorant of, but incapable of comprehending, the
greatest achievements of the human intellect. And as
innumerable discoveries of all ages have thus secured to
Geometry her place as a part of good education, so the
great discoveries of Newton make it proper to introduce
Elementary Mechanics as a part of the same course. If
the education deserve to be called good, the pupil will
not remain ignorant ofthose discoveries, the most remark­
able extensions of the field of human knowledge which
have ever occurred. Yet he cannot by possibility com­
prehend them, except his mind be previously disciplined
by mechanical studies. The period appears now to be
arrived when we may venture, or rather when we are
bound to endeavour, to include a new class of funda­
mental ideas in the elementary discipline of the human
intellect. This is indispensable, if we wish to educe the
powers which we know that it possesses, and to enrich it
with the wealth which lies within its reach*.
8. By the view which is thus presented to us of the
nature and objects of intellectual education, we are led
to consider the mind of man as undergoing a progress
from age to age. By the discoveries which are made,
• The University of Cambridge has, by a recent law, made an
examination in Elementary Mechanics requisite for the Degree of B. A.
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 365
and by the clearness and evidence which, after a time,
(not suddenly nor soon,) the truths thus discovered
acquire, one portion of knowledge after another becomes
elementary; and if we would really secure this progress,
and make men share in it, these new portions must be
treated as elementary in the constitution of a liberal
education. Even in the rudest forms of intelligence,
man is immeasurably elevated above the unprogressive
brute, for the idea of number is so far developed that he
can count his flock or his arrows. But when number is
contemplated in a speculative form, he has made a vast
additional progress; when he steadily apprehends the
relations of space, he has again advanced; when in
thought he carries these relations into the vault of the
sky, into the expanse of the universe, he reaches a higher
intellectual position. And when he carries into these
wide regions, not only the relations of space and time,
but of cause and effect, offeree and reaction, he has again
made an intellectual advance; which, wide as it is at first,
is accessible to all; and with which all should acquaint
themselves, if they really desire to prosecute with energy
the ascending path of truth and knowledge which lies
before them. This should be an object of exertion to all
ingenuous and hopeful minds. For, that exertion is
necessary,—that after all possible facilities have been
afforded, it is still a matter of toil and struggle to
appropriate to ourselves the acquisitions of great dis­
coverers, is not to be denied Elementary mechanics,
like elementary geometry, is a study accessible to a ll:
but like that too, or perhaps more than that, it is a study
which requires effort and contention of mind,—a forced
steadiness of thought. It is long since one complained
of this labour in geometry; and was answered that in
that region there is no Royal Road. The same is true
of Mechanics, and must be true of all branches of solid
education. But we should express the truth more
appropriately in our days by saying that there is no
Popular Road to these sciences. In the mind, as in the
body, strenuous exercise alone can give strength and
activity. The art of exact thought can be acquired only
by the labour of close thinking.
9. (IV.) Chemical Ideas.—We appear then to have
arrived at a point of human progress in which a liberal
education of the scientific intellect should include, besides
arithmetic, elementary geometry and mechanics. The
question then occurs to us, whether there are any other
Fundamental Ideas, among those belonging to other
sciences, which ought also to be made part of such an
education;—whether, for example, we should strive to
develope in the minds of all cultured men the ideas of
polarity, mechanical and chemical, of which we spoke in
a former part of this work.
The views to which we have been conducted by the
previous inquiry lead us to reply that it would not be
well at present to make chemical Polarities, at any rate,
a subject of elementary instruction. For even the most
profound and acute philosophers who have speculated
upon this subject,—they who are leading the van in the
march of discovery,—do not seem yet to have reduced
their thoughts on this subject to a consistency, or to have
taken hold of this idea of Polarity in a manner quite
satisfactory to their own minds. This part of the sub­
ject is, therefore, by no means ready to be introduced
into a course of general elementary education; for, with
a view to such a purpose, nothing less than the most
thoroughly luminous and transparent condition of the
idea will suffice. Its whole efficacy, as a means and
object of disciplinal study, depends upon there being no
obscurity, perplexity, or indefiniteness with regard to
it, beyond that transient deficiency which at first exists
3 6 6 METHODS EMPLOYED IN THE FORMATION OF SCIENCE.
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 367
in the learner’s mind, and is to be removed by bis
studies. The idea of chemical Polarity is not yet in this
condition; and therefore is not yet fit for a place in
education. Yet since this idea of Polarity is the most
general idea which enters into chemistry, and appears to
be that which includes almost all the others, it would be
unphilosophical, and inconsistent with all sound views of
science, to introduce into education some chemical con­
ceptions, and to omit those which depend upon this idea:
indeed such a partial adoption of the science could hardly
take place without not only omitting, but misrepresent­
ing, a great part of our chemical knowledge. The con­
clusion to which we are necessarily led, therefore, is
this:—that at present chemistry cannot with any ad­
vantage, form a portion of the general intellectual edu­
cation*.
10. (V.) Natural-History Ideas.— But there remains
still another class of Ideas, with regard to which we may
very properly ask whether they may not advantageously
form a portion of a liberal education: I mean the Ideas
of definite Resemblance and Difference, and of one set
of resemblances subordinate to another, which form the
bases of the classificatory sciences. These Ideas are
developed by the study of the various branches of Natu­
ral History, as Botany, and Zoology; and beyond all
doubt, those pursuits, if assiduously followed, very mate­
rially affect the mental habits. There is this obvious
advantage to be looked for from the study of Natural
History, considered as a means of intellectual disci­
* I do not here stop to prove that an education (if it be so called)
in which the memory only retains the verbal expression of results,
while the mind does not apprehend the principles of the subject, and
therefore cannot even understand the words in which its doctrines are
expressed, is of no value whatever to the intellect, but rather, is highly
hurtful to the habits of thinking and reasoning.
pline:—that it gives us, in a precise and scientific form,
examples of the classing aud naming of objects; which
operations the use of common language leads us con­
stantly to perform in a loose and inexact way. In the
usual habits of our minds and tongues, things are dis­
tinguished or brought together, and names are applied,
in a manner very indefinite, vacillating, and seemingly
capricious: and we may naturally be led to doubt
whether such defects can be avoided;—whether exact
distinctions of things, and rigorous use of words be pos­
sible. Now upon this point we may receive the instruc­
tion of Natural History; which proves to us, by the
actual performance of the task, that a precise classifi­
cation and nomenclature are attainable, at least for a
mass of objects all of the same kind. Further, we also
learn from this study, that there may exist, not only an
exact distinction of kinds of things, but a series of dis­
tinctions, one set subordinate to another, aud the more
general including the more special, so as to form a
system of classification. All these are valuable lessons.
If by the study of Natural History we evolve, in a clear
and well defined form, the conceptions of genus, ,
and of higher and lower steps of classification, we commu­
nicate precision, clearness, and method to the intellect,
through a great range of its operations.
11. It must be observed, that in order to attain the
disciplinal benefit which the study of Natural History is
fitted to bestow, we must teach the natural not the arti­
ficial classifications i or at least the natural as well as
the artificial. For it is important for the student to
perceive that there are classifications, not merely arbi­
trary, founded upon some assumed character, but natural,
recognized by some discovered character; he ought to
see that our classes being collected according to one
mark, are confirmed by many marks not originally stated
3 6 8 METHODS EMPLOYED IN THE FORMATION OF SCIENCE.
Digitized by Google
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 3 6 9
in our scheme; and are thus found to be grouped
together, not by a single resemblance, but by a mass of
resemblances, indicating a natural affinity. That objects
may be collected into such groups, is a highly important
lesson, which Natural History alone, pursued as the sci­
ence of natural classes, can teach.
12. Natural History has not unfrequently been made
a portion of education: and has in some degree produced
such effects as we have pointed out. It would appear,
however, that its lessons have, for the most part been very
imperfectly learnt or understood by persons of ordinary
education: and that there are perverse intellectual habits
very commonly prevalent in the cultivated classes, which
ought ere now to have been corrected by the general
teaching of Natural History. We may detect among
speculative men many prejudices respecting the nature
and rules of reasoning, which arise from pure mathema­
tics having been so long and so universally the instru­
ment of intellectual cultivation. Pure Mathematics rea­
sons from definitions: whatever term is introduced into
her pages, as a circle, or a square, its definition comes
along with it : and this definition is supposed to supply
all that the reasoner needs to know, respecting the terfn.
If there be any doubt concerning the validity of the con­
clusion, the doubt is resolved by recurring to the defini­
tions. Hence it has come to pass that in other subjects
also, men seek for and demand definitions as the most
secure foundation of reasoning. The definition and the
term defined are conceived to be so far identical, that in
all cases the one may be substituted for the other; and
such a substitution is held to be the best mode of detect­
ing fallacies.
13. It has already been shown that even geometry is
not founded upon definitions alone: and we shall not
here again analyse the fallacy of this beliefin the supreme
VOL. II. w . p. B B
value of definitions. But we may remark that the study
of Natural History appears to be the proper remedy for
this erroneous habit of thought. For in every depart­
ment of Natural History the object of our study is kinds
of things, not one of which kinds can be rigorously
defined, yet all of them are sufficiently definite. In these
cases we may indeed give a specific description of one of
the kinds, and may call it a definition; but it is clew
that such a definition does not contain the essence of the
thing. We say* that the Rose Tribe are “ Polypetalous
dicotyledons, with lateral styles, superior simple ovaria,
regular perigynous stamens, exalburainous definite seeds,
and alternate stipulate leaves.” But no one would say
that this was our essential conception of a rose, to be
substituted for it in all cases of doubt or obscurity, by
way of making our reasonings perfectly clear. Not only
so; but as we have already seenf, the definition does
not even apply to all the tribe. For the stipulse are
absent in Lowea: the albumen is present in Neillia: the
fruit of Spiraea sorbifolia is capsular. If, then, we can
possess any certain knowledge in Natural History, (which
no cultivator of the subject will doubt,) it is evident that
our knowledge cannot depend on the possibility of lay­
ing down exact definitions and reasoning from them.
14. But it may be asked, if we cannot define a word,
or a class of things which a word denotes, how can we
distinguish what it does mean from what it does not
mean? How can we say that it signifies one thing
rather than another, except we declare what is its sig­
nification ?
The answer to this question involves the general
principle of a natural method of classification, which has
already been statedJ and need not here be again dwelt
* Lindlcy’s Nat. Sytt. Dot.., p. 81. t B. vrn., c. ii. sect. 3.
♦ B. vm., c. ii. ibid.
3 7 0 METHODS EMPLOYED IN THE FORMATION OK SCIENCE.
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 371
on. It has been shown that names of kinds of things
(genera) associate them according to total resemblances,
not partial characters. The principle which connects a
group of objects in natural history is not a , but
a type. Thus we take as the type of the Rose family, it
may be, the common wild rose; all species which resem­
ble this more than they resemble any other group of
species are also roses, and form one genus. All genera
which resemble Roses more than they resemble any
other group of genera are of the same family. And thus
the Rose family is collected about some one species,
which is the type or central point of the group.
In such an arrangement, it may readily be conceived
that though the nucleus of each group may cohere firmly
together, the outskirts of contiguous groups mayapproach,
and may even be intermingled, so that some species may
doubtfully adhere to one group or another. Yet this
uncertainty does not at all affect the truths which we find
ourselves enabled to assert with regard to the general
mass of each group. And thus we are taught that there
may be very important differences between two groups
of objects, although we are unable to tell where the one
group ends and where the other begins; and that there
may be propositions of indisputable truth, in which it is
impossible to give unexceptionable definitions of the
terms employed.
15. These lessons are of the highest value with
regard to all employments of the human mind; for the
mode in which words in common use acquire their mean­
ing, approaches far more nearly to the Method of Type
than to the method of definition. The terms which
belong to our practical concerns, or to our spontaneous
and unscientific speculations, are rarely capable of exact
definition. They have been devised in order to express
assertions, often very important, yet very vaguely con-
B B 2
ceived: and the signification of the word is extended, as
far as the assertion conveyed by it can be extended, by
apparent connexion or by analogy. And thus, in all the
attempts of man to grasp at knowledge, we have an
exemplification of that which we have stated as the rule
of induction, that Definition and Proposition are mutually
dependent, each adjusted so as to give value and mean­
ing to the other: and this is so, even when both the
elements of truth are defective in precision: the Defi­
nition being replaced by an incomplete description or a
loose reference to a Type; and the Proposition being in
a corresponding degree insecure.
16. Thus the study of Natural History, as a corrective
of the belief that definitions are essential to substantial
truth, might be of great use; and the advantage which
might thus be obtained is such as well entitles this study
to a place in a liberal education. We may further
observe, that in order that Natural History may produce
such an effect, it must be studied by inspection of the
objects themselves, and not by the reading of books only.
Its lesson is, that we must in all cases of doubt or obscu­
rity refer, not to words or definitions, but to things. The
Book of Nature is its dictionary: it is there that the
natural historian looks, to find the meaning of the words
which he uses*. So long as a plant, in its most essen­
tial parts, is more like a rose than anything else, it is a
rose. He knows no other definition.
* It is a curious example of the influence of the belief in definitions,
that elementary books have been written in which Natural History is
taught in the way of question and answer, and consequently by means
of words alone. In such a scheme, of course all objects are defined: and
we may easily anticipate the value of the knowledge thus conveyed.
Thus, 1
1Iron is a well-known hard metal, of a darkish gray colour, and
very elastic: ” u Copper is an orange-coloured metal, more sonorous
than any other, and the most elastic of any except iron/’ This is to per­
vert the meaning of education, and to make it a business of mere words.
3 7 2 METHODS EMPLOYED IN THE FORMATION OF SCIENCE.
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. 3 7 3
17. (VI.) Well-established Ideas alone to be used.—
We may assert in general what we have above stated
specially with reference to the fundamental principles of
chemistry:—no Ideas are suited to become the elements
of elementary education, till they have not only become
perfectly distinct and fixed in the minds of the leading
cultivators of the science to which they belong; but till
they have been so for some considerable period. The
entire clearness and steadiness of view which is essential
to sound science, must have time to extend itself to a
wide circle of disciples. The views and principles which
are detected by the most profound and acute philoso­
phers, are soon appropriated by all the most intelligent
and active minds of their own and of the following gene­
rations; and when this has taken place, (and not till
then,) it is right, by a proper constitution of our liberal
education, to extend a general knowledge of such prin­
ciples to all cultivated persons. And it follows, from
this view of the matter, that we are by no means to be
in haste to adopt, into our course of education, all new
discoveries as soon as they are made. They require
some time, in order to settle into their proper place and
position in men’s minds, and to show themselves under
their true aspects; and till this is done, we confuse and
disturb, rather than enlighten and unfold, the ideas of
learners, by introducing the discoveries into our elemen­
tary instruction. Hence it was perhaps reasonable that
a century should elapse from the time of Galileo before
the rigorous teaching of mechanics became a general
element of intellectual training; and the doctrine of
universal gravitation was hardly ripe for such an employ­
ment till the end of the last century. We must not
direct the unformed youthful mind to launch its little
bark upon the waters of speculation, till all the agitation
of discovery, with its consequent fluctuation and contro­
versy, has well subsided.
18. But it may be asked, How is it that time ope­
rates to give distinctness and evidence to scientific ideas?
In what way does it happen that views and principles,
obscure and wavering at first, after a while become
luminous and steady ? Can we point out any process,
any intermediate steps, by which this result is produced?
If we can, this process must be an important portion of
the subject now under our consideration.
To this we reply, that the transition from the hesi­
tation and contradiction with which true ideas are first
received, to the general assent and clear apprehension
which they afterwards obtain, takes place through various
arguments for and against them, and various modes of
presenting and testing them, all which we may include
under the term Discussion, which we have already men­
tioned as the second of the two ways by which scientific
views are developed into full maturity.
374 METHODS EMPLOYED IN THE FORMATION OF SCIENCE.
C h a p t e r I V .
OF METHODS OF ACQUIRING CLEAR SCIENTIFIC
IDEAS, co n tin u ed .
— OF THE DISCUSSION OF IDEAS.
1 . I t is easily seen that in every part of science, the
establishment of a new set of ideas has been accompanied
with much of doubt and dissent. And by means of dis­
cussions so occasioned, the new conceptions, and the
opinions which involve them, have gradually become
definite and clear. The authors and asserters of the new
opinions, in order to make them defensible, have been
compelled to make them consistent: in order to recom­
mend them to others, they have been obliged to make
DISCUSSION OF IDEAS. 3 7 6
them more entirely intelligible to themselves. And thus
the terms which formed the main points of the contro­
versy, although applied in a loose and vacillating manner
at first, have in the end become perfectly definite and
exact. The opinions discussed have been, in their main
features, the same throughout the debate; but they have
at first been dimly, and at last clearly apprehended:
like the objects of a landscape, at which we look through
a telescope ill adjusted, till, by sliding the tube back­
wards and forwards, we at last bring it into focus, and
perceive every feature of the prospect sharp and bright.
2. We have in the last Book but one* fully exem­
plified this gradual progress of conceptions from obscu­
rity to clearness by means of Discussion. We have seen,
too, that this mode of treating the subject has never been
successful, except when it has been associated with an
appeal to facts as well as to reasonings. A combination
of experiment with argument, of observation with demon­
stration, has always been found requisite in order that
men should arrive at those distinct conceptions which
give them substantial truths. The arguments used led
to the rejection of undefined, ambiguous, self-contradic­
tory notions; but the reference to facts led to the selec­
tion, or at least to the retention, of the conceptions which
were both true and useful. The two correlative pro­
cesses, definition and true assertion, the formation of
clear ideas and the induction of laws, went on together.
Thus those discussions by which scientific conceptions
are rendered ultimately quite distinct and fixed, include
both reasonings from principles and illustrations from
facts. At present we turn our attention more peculiarly
to the former part of the process; according to the
distinction already drawn, between the explication of
conceptions and the colligation of facts. The Discussions
* B. xi. c. ii. Of the Explication of Conceptions.
of which we here speak, are the Method (if they may be
called a method) by which the Explication of Conceptions
is carried to the requisite point among philosophers.
3. In the scrutiny of the Fundamental Ideas of the
Sciences which forms the previous Part of this work, and
in the History of the Inductive Sciences, I have, in several
instances, traced the steps by which, historically speaking,
these Ideas have obtained their ultimate and permanent
place in the minds of speculative men. I have thus
exemplified the reasonings and controversies which con­
stitute such Discussion as we now speak of. I have
stated, at considerable length, the various attempts, fail­
ures, and advances, by which the ideas which enter into
the science of Mechanics were evolved into their present
evidence. In like manner we have seen the conception
of refracted rays of light, obscure and confused in Seneca,
growing clearer in Roger Bacon, more definite in Des­
cartes, perfectly distinct in Newton. The polarity of
light, at first contemplatad with some perplexity, became
very distinct to Malus, Young, and Fresnel; yet the
phenomena of circular polarization, and still more, the
circular polarization of fluids, leave us, even at present,
some difficulty in fully mastering this conception. The
related polarities of electricity and magnetism are not yet
fully comprehended, even by our greatest philosophers.
One of Mr. Faraday’s late papers (the Fourteenth Series
of his Researches) is employed in an experimental dis­
cussion of this subject, which leads to no satisfactory
result. The controversy between Biot and Ampère*,
on the nature of the elementary forces in electro-dynamic
action, is another evidence that the discussion of this
subject has not yet reached its termination. With regard
to chemical polarity, I have already stated that this idea
is as yet very far from being brought to an ultimate con­
* Hist. Ind. Sci., B. xili. c. vi.
376 METHODS EMPLOYED IN THE FORMATION OF SCIENCE.
DISCUSSION OF IDEAS. 377
dition of definiteness; and the subject of chemical forces,
(for the whole subject must be included in this idea of
polarity,) which has already occasioned much perplexity
and controversy, may easily occasion much more, before
it is settled to the satisfaction of the philosophical world.
The ideas of the classificatory sciences also have of late
been undergoing much, and very instructive discussion,
in the controversies respecting the relations and offices of
the natural and artificial methods. And with regard to
physiological ideas, it would hardly be too much to say,
that the whole history of physiology up to the present
time has consisted of the discussion of the fundamental
ideas of the science, such as vital forces, nutrition, repro­
duction, and the like. We have had before us at some
length, in the present work, a review of the opposite
opinions which have been advanced on this subject; and
have attempted in some degree to estimate the direction
in which these ideas are permanently settling. But
without attaching any importance to this attempt, the
account there given may at least serve to show, how
important a share in the past progress of this subject the
discussion of its fundamental ideas has hitherto had.
4. There is one reflection which is very pointedly
suggested by what has been said. The manner in which
our scientific ideas acquire their distinct and ultimate
form being such as has been described,—always involving
much abstract reasoning and analysis of our conceptions,
often much opposite argumentation and debate;—how
unphilosophical is it to speak of abstraction and analysis,
of dispute and controversy, as frivolous and unprofitable
processes, by which true science can never be benefitted;
and to put such employments in antithesis with the study
of facts!
Yet some writers are accustomed to talk with con­
tempt of all past controversies, and to wonder at the blind-
ness of those who did not at first take the view which
was established at last. Such persons forget that it was
precisely the controversy, which established among specu­
lative men that final doctrine which they themselves have
quietly accepted. It is true, they have had no difficulty
in thoroughly adopting the truth; but that has occurred
because all dissentient doctrines have been suppressed
and forgotten; and because systems, and books, and lau-
guage itself, have been accommodated peculiarly to the
expression of the accepted truth. To despise those who
have, by their mental struggles and conflicts, brought the
subject into a condition in which errour is almost out of
our reach, is to be ungrateful exactly in proportion to the
amount of the benefit received. It is as if a child, when
its teacher had with many trials and much trouble pre­
pared a telescope so that the vision through it was dis­
tinct, should wonder at his stupidity in pushing the tube
of the eye-glass out and in so often.
5. Again, some persons condemn all that we have
here spoken of as the discussion of ideas, terming it meta­
physical: and in this spirit, one writer* has spoken of
the “ metaphysical period” of each science, as preceding
the period of “ positive knowledge.” But as we have
seen, that process which is here termed “ metaphysical,”
—the analysis of our conceptions and the exposure of
their inconsistencies,—(accompanied with the study of
facts,)—has always gone on most actively in the most
prosperous periods of each science. There is, in Galileo,
Kepler, Gassendi, and the other fathers of mechanical
philosophy, as much ofmetaphysics as in their adversaries.
The main difference is, that the metaphysics is of a better
kind; it is more conformable to metaphysical truth.
And the same is the case in other sciences. Nor can it
be otherwise. For all truth, before it can be consistent
* M. Auguste Comte, Court de Philosophic Positive.
3 7 8 METHODS EMPLOYED IN THE FORMATION OF SCIENCE.
DISCUSSION OF IDEAS. 3 7 9
with facts, must be consistent with itself: and although
this rule is of undeniable authority, its application is often
far from easy. The perplexities and ambiguities which
arise from our having the same idea presented to us
under different aspects, are often difficult to disentangle:
and no common acuteness and steadiness of thought
must be expended on the task. It would be easy to
adduce, from the works of all great discoverers, passages
more profoundly metaphysical than any which are to be
found in the pages of barren d prion reasoners.
6. As we have said, these metaphysical discussions
are not to be put in opposition to the study of facts; but
are to be stimulated, nourished and directed by a con­
stant recourse to experiment and observation. The cul­
tivation of ideas is to be conducted as having for its
object the connexion of facts; never to be pursued as a
mere exercise of the subtilty of the mind, striving to
build up a world of its own, and neglecting that which
exists about us. For although man may in this way please
himself, and admire the creations of his own brain, he
can never, by this course, hit upon the real scheme of
nature. With his ideas unfolded by education, sharpened
by controversy, rectified by metaphysics, he may under­
stand the natural world, but he cannot invent it. At
every step, he must try the value of the advances he has
made in thought, by applying his thoughts to things.
The Explication of Conceptions must be carried on with
a perpetual reference to the Colligation of Facts.
Having here treated of Education and Discussion as
the methods by which the former of these two processes
is to be promoted, we have now to explain the methods
which science employs in order most successfully to
execute the latter. But the Colligation of Facts, as
already stated, may offer to us two steps of a very different
kind,—the laws of Phenomena, and their Causes. We
shall first describe some of the methods employed in
obtaining truths of the former of these two kinds.
3 8 0 METHODS EMPLOYED IN THE FORMATION OF SCIENCE.
Chapter V.
A N A LY SIS OF TH E PROCESS OF INDUCTION.
Sect. I.— TheThree Steps of Induction.
1. When facts have been decomposed and phenomena
measured, the philosopher endeavours to combine them
into general laws, by the aid of ideas and conceptions,
these being illustrated and regulated by such means as
we have spoken of in the last two chapters. In this task,
of gathering laws of nature from observed facts, as we
have already said*, the natural sagacity of gifted minds is
the power by which the greater part of the successful
results have been obtained; and this power will probably
always be more efficacious than any Method can be.
Still there are certain methods of procedure which may
in such investigations give us no inconsiderable aid, and
these I shall endeavour to expound.
2. For this purpose, I remark that the Colligation of
ascertained facts into general propositions may be con­
sidered as containing three steps, which I shall term the
Selection qfthe Idea, the Co
and the Determination qf theMagnitud
collected that by the word Idea, (or Fundamental Idea,)
used in a peculiar sense, I mean certain wide and general
fields of intelligible relation, such as Space, Number,
Cause, Likeness; while by Conception I denote more
special modifications of these ideas, as a- a
number, a uniform force, a likeform of flower. Now in
* B. xi. c- vi.
order to establish any law by reference to facts, we must
select the trueIdea and the true Conception. For exam­
ple; when Hipparchus found* that the distance of the
bright star Spica Virginis from the equinoxial point had
increased by two degrees in about two hundred years,
and desired to reduce this change to a law, he had first
to assign, if possible, the idea on which it depended;—
whether it was regulated for instance, by space, or by
time; whether it was determined by the positions of other
stars at each moment, or went on progressively with the
lapse of ages. And when there was found reason to
select time as the regulative idea of this change, it was
then to be determined how the change went on with the
time;— whether uniformly, or in some other manner:
the conception, or the rule of the progression, was to be
rightly constructed. Finally, it being ascertained that
the change did go on uniformly, the question then occurred
what was its amount:—whether exactly a degree in a
century, or more, or less, and how much: and thus the
determination of the magnitude completed the discovery
of the law of phenomena respecting this star,
3. Steps similar to these three may be discerned in
all other discoveries of laws of nature. Thus, in invests
gating the laws of the motions of the sun, moon or
planets, we find that these motions may be resolved,
besides a uniform motion, into a series of partial motions,
or Inequalities; and for each of these Inequalities, we
have to learn upon what it directly depends, whether
upon the progress of time only, or upon some configura­
tion of the heavenly bodies in space; then, we have to
ascertain its law; and finally, we have to determine what
is its amount. In the case of such Inequalities,' the
fundamental element on which the Inequality depends, is
called the Argument. And when the Inequality has been
* Hut. Ind. Sei., B. ill. c. iv. sect. 3.
ANALYSIS OF THE PROCESS OF INDUCTION. 3 8 1
3 8 2 METHODS EMPLOYED IN THE FORMATION OF SCIENCE.
fully reduced to known rules, and expressed in the form
of a Table, the Argument is the fundamental series of
numbers which stands in the margin of the Table, and by
means of which we refer to the other numbers which
express the Inequality. Thus, in order to obtain from a
Solar Table the Inequality of the sun’s annual motion,
the*Argument is the number which expresses the day of
the year; the Inequalities for each day being (in the
Table) ranged in a line corresponding to the days. More­
over, the Argument of an Inequality being assumed to
be known, we must, in order to calculate the Table, that
is, in order to exhibit the law of nature, know also the
Law of the Inequality, and its Amount. And the inves­
tigation of these three things, the Argument, the Law,
and the Amount of the Inequality, represents the three
steps above described, the Selection of the Idea, the Con­
struction of the Conception, and the Determination of
the Magnitude.
4. In a great body of cases, mathematical language and
calculation are used to express the connexion between
the general, law and the special facts. And when this is
done, the three steps above described may be spoken of
as the Selection of the Independent the Con­
struction of the Formula, and the Determination of the
Coefficients. It may be worth our while to attend to an
exemplification of this. Suppose then, that, in such
observations as we have just spoken of, namely, the shift­
ing of a star from its place in the heavens by an unknown
law, astronomers had, at the end of three successive years,
found that the star had removed by 3, by 8, and by 15
minutes from its original place. Suppose it to be ascer­
tained also, by methods of which we shall hereafter treat,
that this change depends upon the time; we must then
take the time, (which we may denote by the symbol t,) for
the independent taidable. But though the star changes
its place with the time, the change is not proportional to
the time; for its motion which is only 3 minutes in the
first year, is 5 minutes in the second year, and 7 in the
third. But it is not difficult for a person a little versed
in mathematics to perceive that the series 3, 8, 15, may
be obtained by means of two terms, one of which is pro­
portional to the time, and the other to the square of the
time; that is, it is expressed by the formula at + bit.
The question then occurs, what are the values of the
coefficients a and b ; and a little examination of the case
shows us that a must be 2, and 1: so that the formula
is + tt. Indeed if we add together the series 2, 4, 6,
which expresses the change proportional to the time, and
1, 4, 9, which is proportional to the square of the time,
we obtain the series 3, 8, 15, which is the series of num­
bers given by observation. And thus the three steps
which give us the Idea, the Conception, and the Magni­
tudes; or the Argument, the Law, and the Amount, of
the change; give us the Independent Variable, the For­
mula, and the Coefficients, respectively.
We now proceed to offer some suggestions of methods
by which each of these steps may be in some degree
promoted.
ANALYSTS OF THE PROCESS OF INDUCTION. 3 8 .3
Sect. II.— Of the Selection of the Fundamental Idea.
5. When we turn our thoughts upon any assemblage
of facts, with a view of collecting from them some con­
nexion or law, the most important step, and at the same
time that in which rules can least aid us, is the Selection
of the Idea by which they are to be collected. So long
as this idea has not been detected, all seems to be hope­
less confusion or insulated facts; when the connecting
idea has been caught sight of we constantly regard the
facts with reference to their connexion, and wonder that
it should be possible for any one to consider them in any
other point of view.
Thus the different seasons, and the various aspects of
the heavenly bodies, might at first appear to be direct
manifestations from some superior power, which man
could not even understand: but it was soon found that
the ideas of time and space, of motion and recurrence,
would give coherency to many of the phenomena. Yet
this took place by successive steps. Eclipses, for a long
period, seemed to follow no law; and being very remark­
able events, continued to be deemed the indications of a
supernatural will, after the common motions of the
heavens were seen to be governed by relations of time
and space. At length, however, the Chaldeans discover­
ed that, after a period of eighteen years, similar sets of
eclipses recur; and, thus selecting the idea oftime, simply,
as that to which these events were to be referred, they
were able to reduce them to rule; and from that time,
eclipses were recognized as parts of a regular order of
things. We may, in the same manner, consider any other
course of events, and may enquire by what idea they are
bound together. For example, if we take the weather,
years peculiarly wet or dry, hot and cold, productive and
unproductive, follow each other in a manner which, at
first sight at least, seems utterly lawless and irregular.
Now can we in any way discover some rule and order in
these occurrences? Is there, for example, in these events,
as in eclipses, a certain cycle of years, after which like
seasons come round again ? or does the weather depend
upon the force of some extraneous body—for instance,
the moon—and follow in some way her aspects? or
would the most proper way of investigating this subject
be to consider the effect of the moisture and heat of
various tracts of the earth’s surface upon the ambient
air ? It is at our choice to try these and other modes of
3 8 4 METHODS EMPLOYED IN THE FORMATION OF SCIENCE.
obtaining a science of the weather: that is, we may refer
the phenomena to the idea of time, introducing the con­
ception of a cycle;—or to the idea of external by
the conception of the moon’s action ;— or to the idea of
mutual action, introducing the conceptions of thermo-
tical and atmological agencies, operating between differ­
ent regions of earth, water, and air.
6. It may be asked, How are we to decide in such
alternatives ? How are we to select the one right idea
out of several conceivable ones ? To which we can only
reply, that this must be done by trying which will suc­
ceed. If there really exist a cycle of the weather, as
well as of eclipses, it must be established by comparing
the asserted cycle with a good register of the seasons, of
sufficient extent. Or if the moon really influence the
meteorological conditions ofthe air, the asserted influence
must be compared with the observed facts, and so
.accepted or rejected. When Hipparchus had observed
the increase of longitude of the stars, the idea of a mo­
tion of the celestial sphere suggested itself as the expla­
nation of the change; but this thought was verified only
byobserving several stars. It was conceivable that each
star should have an independent motion, governed by
time only, or by other circumstances, instead of being
regulated by its place in the sphere; and this possibility
could be rejected by trial alone. In like manner, the
original opinion of the composition of bodies supposed
the compounds to derive their properties from the
elements according to the law of likeness; but this opi­
nion was overturned by a thousand facts; and thus the
really applicable idea of chemical composition was intro­
duced in modern times. In what has already been said
on the History of Ideas, we have seen how each science
was in a state of confusion and darkness till the right
idea was introduced.
ANALYSIS OF THE PROCESS OF INDUCTION. 385
V O L . I I . w . p . Cc
7. No general method of evolving such ideas can be
given. Such events appear to result from a peculiar
sagacity and felicity of mind;—never without labour,
never without preparation;—yet with no constant de­
pendence upon preparation, or upon labour, or even
entirely upon personal endowments. Newton explained
the colours which refraction produces, by referring each
colour to a peculiar avgle ofrefra
the right idea. But when the same philosopher tried to
explain the colours produced by diffraction, he erred, by
attempting to apply the same idea, (the course of a single
ray,) instead of applying the truer idea ofthe interfèrent
of two rays. Newton gave a wrong rule for the double
refraction of Iceland spar, by making the refraction
depend on the edges of the rhombohedron : Huyghens,
more happy, introduced the idea of the axis ofsymmetry
of the solid, and thus was able to give the true law of
the phenomena.
8. Although the selected idea is proved to be the
right one, only when the true law of nature is established
by means of it, yet it often happens that there prevails
a settled conviction respecting the relation which must
afford the key to the phenomena, before the selection has
been confirmed by the laws to which it leads. Even
before the empirical laws of the tides were made out, it
was not doubtful that these laws depended upon the
places and motions of the sun and moon. We know
that the crystalline form of a body must depend upon its
chemical composition, though we are as yet unable to
assign the law of this dependence.
Indeed in most cases of great discoveries, the right
idea to which the facts were to be referred, was selected
by many philosophers, before the decisive demonstration
that it was the right idea, was given by the discoverer.
Thus Newton showed that the motions of the planets
3 8 6 METHODS EMPLOYED IN THE FORMATION OF SCIENCE.
ANALYSIS OF THE PROCESS OF INDUCTION. 3 8 7
might be explained by means of a central force in the
sun: but though he established, he did not first select
the idea involved in the conception of a central force.
The idea had already been sufficiently pointed out, dimly
by Kepler, more clearly by Borelli, Huyghens, Wren,
and Hooke. Indeed this anticipation of the true idea is
always a principal part of that which, in the History
the Sciences, we have termed the Prelude of a Discovery.
The two steps of proposing a philosophical problem, and
of solving it, are, as we have elsewhere said, both import­
ant, and are often performed by different persons. The
former step is, in fact, the Selection of the Idea. In ex­
plaining any change, we have to discover first the Argu­
ment, and then the Law of the change. The selection of
the Argument is the step of which we here speak; and
is that in which inventiveness of mind and justness of
thought are mainly shown.
9. Although, as we have said, we can give few precise
directions for this cardinal process, the Selection of the
Idea, in speculating on phenomena, yet there is one Rule
which may have its use : it is this:— The idea and the
facts must be homogeneous: the elementary Conceptions,
into which the facts have been decomposed, must be of
the same nature as the Idea by which we attempt to
collect them into laws. Thus, if facts have been observed
and measured by reference to space, they must be bound
together by the idea of space: if we would obtain a
knowledge of mechanical forces in the solar system,
we must observe mechanical phenomena. Kepler erred
against this rule in his 'attempts at obtaining physical
laws of the system; for the facts which he took were the
velocities, not the changes of velocity, which are really the
mechanical facts. Again, there has been a transgression
of this Rule committed by all chemical philosophers who
have attempted to assign the relative position of the ele-
c c 2
mfentary particles of bodies in their component molecules.
For their purpose has been to discover the relations ofthe
particles in space; and yet they have neglected the only
facts in the constitution of bodies which have a reference
to space—namely, crystallinef
o
r
m
,
and optical properties.
No progress can be made in the theory of the elementary
structure of bodies, without making these classes of facts
the main basis of our speculations.
10. The only other Rule which I have to offer on this
subject, is that which I have already given:—the Idea
must he tested by thefacts. It must be tried by applying
to the facts the conceptions which are derived from the
idea, and not accepted till some ofthese succeed in giving
the law ofthe phenomena. The justice of the suggestion
cannot be known otherwise than by making the trial.
If we can discover a true lam by employing any concep­
tions, the idea from which these conceptions are derived
is the right one; nor can there be any proof of its right­
ness so complete and satisfactory, as that we are by it led
to a solid and permanent truth.
This, however, can hardly be termed a Rule; for when
we would know, to conjecture and to try the truth of
our conjecture by a comparison with the facts, is the
natural and obvious dictate of common sense.
Supposing the Idea which we adopt, or which we
would try, to be now fixed upon, we still have before us
the range of many Conceptions derived from it; many
Formulae may be devised depending on the same Inde­
pendent Variable, and we must now consider how our
selection among these is to be made.
3 8 8 METHODS EMPLOYED IN THE FORMATION OF SCIENCE.
RULES FOR THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE CONCEPTION. 3 8 9
Chapter VI.
GENERAL RU LES FO R T H E CONSTRUCTION OF
T H E CONCEPTION.
1. In speaking of the discovery of laws of nature,
those which depend upon quantity, as number, space, and
the like, are most prominent and most easily conceived,
and therefore in speaking of such researches, we shall
oftenuse language which applies peculiarly to the cases in
which quantities numerically measurable are concerned,
leaving it for a subsequent task to extend our principles
to ideas of other kinds.
Hence we may at present consider the Construction
of a Conception which shall include and connect the
facts, as being the construction of a Mathematical For­
mula, coinciding with the numerical expression of the
facts; and we have to consider how this process can be
facilitated, it being supposed that we have already before
us the numerical measures given by observation.
2. We may remark, however, that the construction
of the right Formula for any such case, and the deter­
mination of the Coefficients of such formula, which we
have spoken of as two separate steps, are in practice
almost necessarily simultaneous ; for the near coincidence
of the results of the theoretical rule with the observed
facts confirms at the same time the Formula and its
Coefficients. In this case also, the mode of arriving at
truth is to try various hypotheses ;—to modify the hypo­
theses so as to approximate to the facts, and to multiply
the facts so as to test the hypotheses.
The Independent Variable, and the Formula which
we would try, being once selected, mathematicians have
devised certain special and technical processes by which
the value of the coefficients may be determined. These
we shall treat of in the next Chapter; but in the mean
time we may note, in a more general manner, the mode
in which, in physical researches, the proper formula may
be obtained. ’
3. A person somewhat versed in mathematics, hav­
ing before him a series of numbers, will generally be able
to devise a formula which approaches near to those
numbers. If, for instance, the series is constantly pro­
gressive, he will be able to see whether it more nearly
resembles an arithmetical or a geometrical progression.
For example, MM. Dulong and Petit, in their investiga­
tion of the law of cooling of bodies, obtained the follow­
ing series of measures. A thermometer, made hot, was
placed in an enclosure of which the temperature was 0
degrees, and the rapidity of cooling of the thermometer
was noted for many temperatures. It was found that
3 9 0 METHODS EMPLOYED IN THE FORMATION OF SCIENCE.
For the temperature 240 the rapidity of cooling was 10*69
15
220 55
8*81
55
200 55
7*40
55 180 55
610
55
160 55 4-89
>5
140 55 3-88
and so on. Now this series of numbers manifestly in­
creases with greater rapidity as we proceed from the
lower to the higher parts of the scale. The numbers do
not, however, form a geometrical series, as we may easily
ascertain. But if we were to take the differences of the
successive terms we should find them to be—
1-88, 1*41, 1-30, 1-21, 101,
and these numbers are very nearly the terms of a geome­
tric series. For if we divide each term by the succeed­
ing one, we find these numbers,
1-33, 109, 107, 1-20, 1-27,
in which there does not appear to be any constant ten­
dency to diminish or increase. And we shall find that a
geometrical series in which the ratio is 1165, may be
made to approach very near to this series, the deviations
from it being only such as may be accounted for by con­
ceiving them as errours of observation. In this manner
a certain formula* is obtained, giving results which very
nearly coincide with the observed facts, as may be seen
in the margin.
The physical law expressed by the formula just spoken
of is this :—that when a body is cooling in an empty
inclosure at a constant temperature, the quickness of the
cooling, for excesses of temperature in arithmetical pro­
gression, increases as the terms of a geometrical pro­
gression, diminished by a constant number.
4. In the actual investigation of Dulong and Petit,
however, the formula was not obtained in precisely the
manner just described. For the quickness of cooling
depends upon two elements, the temperature of the hot
body and the temperature of the inclosure ; not merely
upon the excess of one of these over the other. And it
was found most convenient, first, to make such experi­
ments as should exhibit the dependence of the velocity
* The formula is r = 2,037 (<**-1) where r is the velocity of cool­
ing, t the temperature of the thermometer expressed in degrees, and a is
the quantity 1,0077-
The degree of coincidence is as follows :—
RULES FOR THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE CONCEPTION. 3 9 1
Excess of temperature of Observed Calculated
the thermometer, or values values
values of t. of t’. of r.
240 . . 10-69 . . 1068
2 2 0 . . 8-81 . . 8-89
2 0 0 . . 7’40 . . 7*34
180 . . 610 . . 603
160 . . 4-89 . . 4-87
140 . . 3-88 . . 389
1 2 0 . . 302 . . 305
1 0 0 . . 230 . . 233
80 . . 1-74 . . 172
3 0 2 METHODS EMPLOYED IN THE FORMATION OF SCIENCE.
of cooling upon the temperature of the enclosure; which
dependence is contained in the following law:—The
quickness of cooling of a thermometer in vacuo for a
constant excess of temperature, increases in geometric
progression, when the temperature of the inclosure in­
creases in arithmetic progression. From this law the
preceding one follows by necessary consequence*.
This example may serve to show the nature of the
artifices which may be used for the construction of for­
mulae, when we have a constantly progressive series ol
numbers to represent. We must not only endeavour by
trial to contrive a formula which will answer the con­
ditions, but we must vary our experiments so as to
determine, first one factor or portion of the formula, and
then the other; and we must use the most probable
hypothesis as means of suggestion for our formulae.
5. In a progressive series of numbers, except the for­
mula which we adopt be really that which expresses the
law of nature; the deviations of the formula from the
facts will generally become enormous, when the experi­
ments are extended into new parts of the scale. True
formulae for a progressive series of results can hardly
ever be obtained from a very limited range of experi­
ments : just, as the attempt to guess the general course
of a road or a river, by knowing two or three points of
it in the neighbourhood of one another, would generally
fail. In the investigation respecting the laws of the
* For if 8 be the temperature of the inclosure, and t the excess of
temperature of the hot body, it appears, by this law, that the radiation
of heat is as And hence the quickness of cooling, which is as the
excess of radiation, is as a* —a9; that.is, as a (a* - 1) which
agrees with the formula given in the last note.
The whole of this series of researches of Dulong and Petit is full of
the most beautiful and instructive artifices for the construction of the
proper formulae in physical research.
RULES FOR TIIE CONSTRUCTION OF THE CONCEPTION. 393
cooling of bodies just noticed, one great advantage of
the course pursued by the experimenters was, that their
experiments included so great a range of temperatures.
The attempts to assign the law of elasticity of steam
deduced from experiments made with moderate tempe­
ratures, were found to be enormously wrong, when very
high temperatures were made the subject of experiment.
It is easy to see that this must be so: an arithmetical
and a geometrical series may nearly coincide for a few
terms moderately near each other: but if we take remote
corresponding terms in the two series, one of these will
be very many times the other. And hence, from a
narrow range of experiments, we may infer one of these
series when we ought to infer the other; and thus obtain
a law which is widely erroneous.
6. In Astronomy, the serieses of observations which
we have to study are, for the most part, not progressive,
but recurrent. The numbers observed do not go on con­
stantly increasing; but after increasing up to a certain
amount they diminish; then, after a certain space, in­
crease again; and so on, changing constantly through
certain cycles. In cases in which the observed numbers
are of this kind, the formula which expresses them must
be a circular f
u
n
c
t
i
o
n
, of some sort or other; involving,
for instance, sines, tangents, and other forms of calcula­
tion, which have recurring values when the angle on
which they depend goes on constantly increasing. The
main business of formal astronomy consists in resolving
the celestial phenomena into a series of terms of this
kind, in detecting their arguments, and in determining
their coefficients.
7. In constructing the formulae by which laws of
nature are expressed, although the first object is to assign
the law of the phenomena, philosophers have, in almost
all cases, not proceeded in a purely empirical manner, to
connect the observed numbers by some expression of
calculation, but have been guided, in the selection of
their formula, by some hypothesis respecting the mode
of connexion of the facts. Thus the formula of Dulong
and Petit above given was suggested by the theory of
exchanges; the first attempts at the resolution of the
heavenly motions into circular functions were clothed in
the hypothesis of epicycles. And this was almost inevi­
table. “ We must confess,” says Copernicus*, “ that the
celestial motions are circular, or compounded of several
circles, since their inequalities observe a fixed law, and
recur in value at certain intervals, which could not be
except they were circular: for a circle alone can make
that quantity which has occurred recur again.” In like
manner the first publication of the law of the sines, the
true formula of optical refraction, was accompanied by
Descartes with an hypothesis, in which an explanation of
the law was pretended. In such cases, the mere com­
parison of observations may long fail in suggesting the
true formulae. The fringes of shadows and other dif­
fracted colours were studied in vain by Newton, Grimaldi,
Comparetti, the elder Herschel, and Mr. Brougham, so
long as these inquirers attempted merely to trace the
laws of the facts as they appeared in themselves; while
Young, Fresnel, Fraunhofer, Schwerdt, and others, deter­
mined these laws in the most rigorous manner, when
they applied to the observations the hypothesis of inter­
ferences.
8. But with all the aid that hypotheses and calcula­
tion can afford, the construction of true formulae, in those
cardinal discoveries by which the progress of science has
mainly been caused, has been a matter of great labour
and difficulty, and of good fortune added to sagacity. In
the History of Science, we have seen how long and how
• De Ren., L. I. c. iv.
3 9 4 METHODS EMPLOYED IN THE FORMATION OF SCIENCE.
hard Kepler laboured, before he converted the formula
for the planetary motions, from an epicyclical combina­
tion, to a simple ellipse. The same philosopher, labour­
ing with equal zeal and perseverance to discover the
formula of optical refraction, which now appears to us
so simple, was utterly foiled. Malus sought in vain the
formula determining the angle at which a transparent
surface polarizes light: Sir D. Brewster*, w’ith a happy
sagacity, discovered the formula to be simply this, that
the index of refraction is the tangent of the angle of
polarization.
Though we cannot give rules which will be of much
service when we have thus to divine the general form of
the relation by which phenomena are connected, there
are certain methods by which, in a narrower field, our
investigations may be materially promoted;—certain spe­
cial methods of obtaining laws from observations. Of
these we shall now proceed to treat.
RULES FOR THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE CONCEPTION. 3 9 5
C h a p t e r VII.
SPEC IA L M ETHODS OF IN D U CTIO N A PPLIC A B LE
TO Q U A N TITY .
I n cases where the phenomena admit of numerical
measurement and expression, certain mathematical me­
thods may be employed to facilitate and give accuracy to
the determination of the formula by which the observa­
tions are connected into laws. Among the most usual
and important of these Methods are the following:—
I. The Method of Curves.
II. The Method of Means.
III. The Method of Least Squares.
IV. The Method of Residues.
* Hist. Ind. S c i B. ix. c. vi.
3 9 6 METHODS EMPLOYED IN THE FORMATION OF SCIENCE.
S e c t . I.— TheMethod of C
1. The Method of Curves proceeds upon this basis;
that when one quantity undergoes a series of changes
depending on the progress of another quantity, (as, for
instance, the Deviation of the Moon from her equable
place depends upon the progress of Time,) this depend­
ence may be expressed by means of a curve. In the
language of mathematicians, the variable quantity, whose
changes we would consider, is made the ordinate of the
curve, and the quantity on which the changes depend is
made the abscissa. In this manner, the curve will exhibit
in its form a series of undulations, rising and falling so
as to correspond with the alternate increase and diminu­
tion of the quantity represented, at intervals of space
which correspond to the intervals of time, or other quan­
tity by which the changes are regulated. Thus, to take
another example, if we set up, at equal intervals, a series
of ordinates representing the height of all the successive
high waters brought by the tides at a given place, for a
year, the curve which connects the summits of all these
ordinates will exhibit a series of undulations, ascending
and descending once in about each fortnight; since, in
that interval, we have, in succession, the high spring
tides and the low neap tides. The curve thus drawn
offers to the eye a picture of the order and magnitude
of the changes to which the quantity under contempla­
tion, (the height of high water,) is subject.
2. Now the peculiar facility and efficacy of the Me­
thod of Curves depends upon this circumstance;—that
order and regularity are more readily and clearly recog­
nized, when thus exhibited to the eye in a picture, than
they are when presented to the mind in any other man­
ner. To detect the relations of Number considered
directly as Number, Is not easy: and we might contem-
plate for a long time a Table of recorded Numbers
without perceiving the order of their increase and dimi­
nution, even if the law were moderately simple; as any
one may satisfy himself by looking at a Tide Table.
But if these Numbers are expressed by the magnitude
of Lines, and if these Lines are arranged in regular
order, the eye readily discovers the rule of their changes:
it follows the curve which runs along their extremities,
and takes note of the order in which its convexities and
concavities succeed each other, if any order be readily
discoverable. The separate observations are in this
manner compared and generalized and reduced to rule
by the eye alone. And the eye, so employed, detects
relations of order and succession with a peculiar celerity
and evidence. If, for example, we thus arrange as ordi­
nates the prices of corn in each year for a series of
years, we shall see the order, rapidity, and amount of
the increase and decrease of price, far more clearly than
in any other manner. And if there were any recurrence
of increase and decrease at stated intervals of years, we
should in this manner perceive it. The eye, constantly
active and busy, and employed in making into shapes
the hints and traces of form which it contemplates, runs
along the curve thus offered to it; and as it travels back­
wards and forwards, is ever on the watch to detect some
resemblance or contrast between one part and another.
And these resemblances and contrasts, when discovered,
are the images of laws of phenomena; which are made
manifest at once by this artifice, although the mind
could not easily catch the indications of their existence,
if they were not thus reflected to her in the clear mirror
of space.
Thus when we have a series of good observations, and
know the argument upon which their change of magni­
tude depends, the Method of Curves enables us to ascer-
SPECIAL METHODS OF INDUCTION.— QUANTITY. 397
3 9 8 METHODS EMPLOYED IN THE FORMATION OF SCIENCE.
tain, almost at a glance, the law of the change; and by
further attention, may be made to give us a formula with
great accuracy. The Method enables us to perceive,
among our observations, an order, which without the
method, is concealed in obscurity and perplexity.
3. But the Method of Curves not only enables us to
obtain laws of nature from good observations, but also,
in a great degree, from observations which are very
imperfect. For the imperfection of observations may in
part be corrected by this consideration;—that though
they may appear irregular, the correct facts which they
imperfectly represent, are really regular. And the
Method of Curves enables us to remedy this apparent
irregularity, at least in part. For when observations
thus imperfect are laid down as ordinates, and their
extremities connected by a line, we obtain, not a smooth
and flowing curve, such as we should have if the obser­
vations contained only the rigorous results of regular
laws; but a broken and irregular line, full of sudden
and capricious twistings, and bearing on its face marks
of irregularities dependent, not upon law, but upon
chance. Yet these irregular and abrupt deviations in
the curve are, in most cases, but small in extent, when
compared with those bendings which denote the effects
of regular law. And this circumstance is one of the
great grounds of advantage in the Method of Curves.
For when the observations thus laid down present to
the eye such a broken and irregular line, we can still
see, often with great ease and certainty, what twistings
of the line are probably due to the irregular errours of
observation; and can at once reject these, by drawing a
more regular curve, cutting off all such small and irregu­
lar sinuosities, leaving some to the right and some to
the left; and then proceeding as if this regular curve,
and not the irregular one, expressed the observations.
In this manner, we suppose the errours of observation
to balance each other; some of our corrected measures
being too great and others too small, but with no great
preponderance either way. We draw our main regular
curve, not through the points given by our observations,
but among them: drawing it, as has been said by one of
the philosophers* who first systematically used this
method, “ with a bold but careful hand.” The regular
curve which we thus obtain, thus freed from the casual
errours of observation, is that in which we endeavour to
discover the laws of change and succession.
4. By this method, thus getting rid at once, in a
great measure, of errours of observation, we obtain data
which are more timethan the individualfacts .
The philosopher’s business is to compare his hypotheses
with facts, as we have often said. But if we make the
comparison with separate special facts, we are liable to
be perplexed or misled, to an unknown amount, by the
errours of observation; which may cause the hypotheti­
cal and the observed result to agree, or to disagree, when
otherwise they would not do so. If, however, we thus
take the whole mass of the facts, and remove the errours
of actual observation!, by making the curve which
expresses the supposed observation regular and smooth,
we have the separate facts corrected by their general
tendency. We are put in possession, as we have said,
of something more true than any fact by itself is.
One of the most admirable examples of the use of
this Method of Curves is found in Sir John Herschel’s
Investigation of the orbits of double stars\. The author
there shows how far inferior the direct observations of
the angle of position are, to the observations corrected
by a curve in the manner above stated. “ This curve
* Sir J. Hersckel, Att.Soc. Tram., Yol. v. p. 1.
t Ibid., Yol. v. p. 4
.
X Ibid.
SPECIAL MET50D3 OF INDUCTION.— QUANTITY. 3 9 9
once drawn,” he says, “ must represent, it is evident, the
law of variation of the angle of position, with the time,
not only for instants intermediate between the dates of
observations, but even at the moments of observation
themselves, much better than the individual obser­
vations can possibly (on an average) do. It is only
requisite to try a case or two, to be satisfied that by
substituting the curve for the points, we have made a
nearer approach to nature, and in a great measure elimi­
nated errours of observation.” “In following the gra­
phical process,” he adds, “ we have a conviction almost
approaching to moral certainty that we cannot be greatly
misled.” Again, having thus corrected the raw obser­
vations, he makes another use of the graphical method,
by trying whether an ellipse can be drawn “if not
through, at least among the points, so as to approach
tolerably near them a ll; and thus approaching to the
orbit which is the subject of investigation.”
5. The obstacles which principally impede the appli­
cation of the method of curves are (I.) our ignorance of
the argument of the changes, and (II.) the complication
of several laws with one another.
(I.) If we do not know on what quantity those changes
depend which we are studying, we may fail entirely in
detecting the law of the changes, although we throw the
observations into curves. For the true argument of the
change should, in fact, be made the abscissa of the curve.
If we were to express, by a series of ordinates, the hour
of high water on successive days, we should not obtain,
or should obtain very imperfectly, the law which these
times follow; for the real argument of this change is not
the solar hour, but the hour at which the moon passes the
meridian. But if we are supposed to be aware that this
is the argument, (which theory suggests and trial instantly
confirms) we then do immediately obtain the primary
4 0 0 METHODS EMPLOYED IN THE FORMATION OF SCIENCE.
rules of the time of high water, by throwing a series of
observations into a curve, with the hour of the moon’s
transit for the abscissa.
In like manner, when we have obtained the first great
or semi-mensual inequality of the tides, if we endeavour
to discover the laws of other inequalities by means of
curves, we must take from theory the suggestion that the
Arguments of such inequalities will probably be the pa­
rallax and the dedination of the moon. This suggestion
again is confirmed by trial; but if we were supposed to
be entirely ignorant of the dependence of the changes of
the tide on the distance and declination of the moon, the
curves would exhibit unintelligible and seemingly capri­
cious changes. For by the effect of the inequality arising
from the parallax, the convexities of the curves which
belong to the spring tides, are in some years made alter­
nately greater and less all the year through; while in
other years they are made all nearly equal. This differ­
ence does not betray its origin, till we refer it to the
parallax; and the same difficulty in proceeding would
arise if we were ignorant that the moon’s declination is
one of the arguments of tidal changes.
In like manner, if we try to reduce to law any meteoro­
logical changes, those of the height of the barometer for
instance, we find that we can make little progress in the
investigation, precisely because we do not know the
Argument on which these changes depend. That there
is a certain regular diurnal change of small amount we
know; but when we have abstracted this inequality, (of
which the Argument is the time of day,) we find far
greater changes left behind, from day to day and from
hour to hour; and we express these in curves, but we
cannot reduce them to rule, because we cannot discover
on what numerical quantity they depend. The assiduous
study of barometrical observations, thrown into curves,
V O L . I I . w . p . D D
SPECIAL METHODS OF INDUCTION.— QUANTITY. 401
may perhaps hereafter point out to us what are
the relations of time and space by which these varia­
tions are determined; but in the mean time, this sub­
ject exemplifies to us our remark, that the method
of curves is of comparatively small use, so long as
we are in ignorance of the real Arguments of the In­
equalities.
6. (II.) In the next place, I remark that a difficulty
is thrown in the way of the method of curves by the com­
bination of several laws one with another. It will readily
be seen that such a cause will produce a complexity in
the curves which exhibit the succession of facts. If for
example, we take the case of the tides, the height of high
water increases and diminishes with the approach of the
sun to, and its recess from, the syzygies of the mooa
Again, this height increases and diminishes as the moon's
parallax increases and diminishes; and again, the height
diminishes when the declination increases, and
and all these Arguments of change, the distance from
syzygy, the parallax, the declination, complete their
circuit and return into themselves in different periods.
Hence the curve which represents the height of high
water has not any periodical interval in which it com­
pletes its changes and commences a new cycle. The
sinuosity which would arise from each inequality sepa­
rately considered, interferes with, disguises, and conceals
the others; and when we first cast our eyes on the curve
of observation, it is very far from offering any obvious
regularity in its form. And it is to be observed that we
have not yet enumerated all the elements of this com­
plexity : for there are changes of the tide depending upon
the parallax and declination of the sun as well as of the
moon. Again; besides these changes, of which the argu­
ments are obvious, there are others, as those depending
upon the barometer and the wind, which follow no known
402 METHODS EMPLOYED IN THE FORMATION OF SCIENCE.
SPECIAL METHODS OF INDUCTION.— QUANTITY. 4 0 3
regular law, and which constantly affect and disturb the
results produced by other laws.
In the tides, and in like manner in the motions of the
moon, we have very eminent examples of the way in
which the discovery of laws may be rendered difficult by
the number of laws which operate to affect the same
quantity. In such cases, the inequalities are generally
picked out in succession, nearly in the order of their
magnitudes. In this way there were successively col­
lected, from the study of the moon’s motions by a series
of astronomers, those Inequalities which we term the
Equation qf the C
e
n
t
e
r
, the Erection, the Variation, and
the Annual Equation. These Inequalities were not, in
fact, obtained by the application of the Method of Curves;
but the Method of Curves might have been applied to
such a case with great advantage. The Method has been
applied with great industry and with remarkable success
to the investigation of the laws of the tides; and by the
use of it, a series of Inequalities both of the Times and
of the Heights of high water has been detected, which
explain all the main features of the observed facts.
Sect. U.— The Method qf Means.
7. The Method of Curves, as we have endeavoured
to explain above, frees us from the casual and extraneous
irregularities which arise from the imperfection of obser­
vation ; and thus lays bare the results of the laws which
really operate, and enables us to proceed in search of
those laws. But the Method of Curves is not the only one
which effects such a purpose. The errours arising from
detached observations may be got rid of and the addi­
tional accuracy which multiplied observations give may
be obtained, by operations upon the observed numbers
without expressing them by spaces. The process of
curves assumes that the errours of observation balance
D D 2
each other;—that the accidental excesses and defects are
nearly equal in amount;—that the true quantities which
would have been observed if all accidental causes of
irregularity were removed, are obtained, exactly or nearly,
by selecting quantities, upon the whole, equally distant
from the extremes of great and small which our imperfect
observations offer to us. But when, among a number of
unequal quantities, we take a quantity equally distant from
the greater and the smaller, this quantity is termed the
Mean of the unequal quantities. Hence the correction
of our observations by the method of curves consists in
taking the Mean of the observations.
8. Now without employing curves, we may proceed
arithmetically to take the Mean of all the observed
numbers of each class. Thus, if we wished to know the
height of the spring tide at a given place, and if we found
that four different spring tides were measured as being of
the height of ten, thirteen, eleven, and fourteen feet, we
should conclude that the true height of the tide w as
the Mean of these, numbers,—namely, twelve feet; and
we should suppose that the deviation from this height,
in the individual cases, arose from the accidents of
weather, the imperfections of observation, or the oper­
ation of other laws, besides the alternation of spring and
neap tides.
This process of finding the Mean of an assemblage of
observed numbers is much practised in discovering, and
still more in confirming and correcting, laws of pheno­
mena. We shall notice a few of its peculiarities.
9. The Method of Means requires a knowledge of
the Argument of the changes which we would study; for
the numbers must be arranged in certain Classes, before
we find the Mean of each Class; and the principle on
which this arrangement depends is the Argument. This
knowledge of the Argument is more indispensably neces-
4 0 4 METHODS EMPLOYED IN TOE FORMATION OF SCIENCE.
sary in the Method of Means than the Method of Curves;
for when curves are drawn, the eye often spontaneously
detects the law of recurrence in their sinuosities; but
when we have collections of numbers, we must divide them
into classes by a selection of our own. Thus, in order to
discover the law which the heights of the tide follow, in
the progress from spring to neap, we arrange the observed
tides according to the day of the moon's age; and we
then take the mean of all those which thus happen at the
same period of the moon’s revolution. In this manner we
obtain the law which we seek; and the process is very
nearly the same in all other applications of this Method
of Means. In all cases, we begin by assuming the
Classes of measures which we wish to compare, the Law
which we could confirm or correct, the Formula of which
we would determine the coefficients.
10. The Argument being thus assumed, the Method
of Means is very efficacious in ridding our inquiry of
errours and irregularities which would impede and per­
plex it. Irregularities which are altogether accidental, or
at least accidental with reference to some law which we
have under consideration, compensate each other in a
very remarkable way, when we take the means of many
observations. If we have before us a collection of ob­
served tides, some of them may be elevated, some
depressed by the wind, some noted too high and some
too low by the observer, some augmented and some dimi­
nished by uncontemplated changes in the moon’s distance
or motion: but in the course of a vear or two at the
*
longest, all these causes of irregularity balance each
other ; and the law of succession, which runs through the
observations, comes out as precisely as if those disturbing
influences did not exist. In any particular case, there
appears to be no possible reason why the deviation should
be in one way, or of one moderate amount, rather than
SPECIAL METIIODS OF INDUCTION.— QUANTITY. 4 0 5
4 0 6 METHODS EMPLOYED IN THE FORMATION OF SCIENCE.
another. But taking the mass of observations together,
the deviations in opposite ways will be of equal amount,
with a degree of exactness very striking. This is found
to be the case in all inquiries where we have to deal with
observed numbers upon a large scale. In the progress of
the population of a country, for instance, what can appear
more inconstant, in detail, than the causes which produce
births and deaths ? yet in each country, and even in each
province of a country, the proportions of the whole num­
bers of births and deaths remain nearly constant. What
can be more seemingly beyond the reach of rule than the
occasions which produce letters that cannot find their
destination? yet it appears that the number of “dead
letters” is nearly the same from year to year. And
the same is the result when the deviations arise, not
from mere accident, but from laws perfectly regular,
though not contemplated in our investigation*. Thus
the effects of the Moon’s Parallax upon the Tides, some­
times operating one way and sometimes another, accord­
ing to certain rules, are quite eliminated by taking the
Means of a long series of observations; the excesses and
defects neutralizing each other, so far as concerns the
effect upon any law of the tides which we would investi­
gate.
11. In order to obtain very great accuracy, very large
masses of observations are often employed by philoso­
phers, and the accuracy of the result increases with the
multitude of observations. The immense collections of
astronomical observations which have in this manner
been employed in order to form and correct the tables of
the celestial motions are perhaps the most signal instances
of the attempts to obtain accuracy by this accumulation
of observations. Delambre’s Tables of the Sun are
* Provided the argument of the law which w e neglect have no
coincidence w ith the argument of the law which we would determine.
founded upon nearly 3000 observations ; Burg’s Tables
ofthe Moon upon above 4000.
But there are other instances hardly less remarkable.
M
r. Lubbock’s first investigations of the laws of the tides
ofLondon*, included above 13,000 observations, extend­
ing through nineteen years ; it being considered that this
large number was necessary to remove the effects of
accidental causesf. And the attempts to discover the
laws of change in the barometer have led to the perform­
ance of labours of equal amount : Laplace and Bouvard
examined this question by means of observations made
at the Observatory of Paris, four times every day for
eight years.
12. We may remark one striking evidence of the
accuracy thus obtained by employing large masses of
observations. In this way we may often detect inequa­
lities much smaller than the errours by which they are
encumbered and concealed. Thus the diurnal oscilla­
tions of the barometer were discovered by the com­
parison of observations of many days, classified according
to the hours of the day ; and the result was a clear and
incontestable proof of the existence of such oscillations,
although the differences which these oscillations produce
at different hours of the day are far smaller than the
casual changes, hitherto reduced to no law, which go on
from hour to hour and from day to day. The effect of
* Phil Tran*. 1831.
t This period of nineteen years was also selected for a reason which
is alluded to in a former note. (p. 406.) It was thought that this
period secured the inquirer from the errours which m ight be produoed
by the partial (»incidence of the arguments of different irregularities ;
for example, those due to the moon s parallax and to the moon's decli­
nation. It has since been found (PAU. Tr. 1838. On thé Determina­
tionof the Lam of the Tides from Short Series of Observations,) that
*Uh regard to parallax at least, the Means of one year give sufficient
accuracy.
SPECIAL METHODS OF INDUCTION___QUANTITY. 407
law, operating incessantly and steadily, makes itself
more and more felt as we give it a longer range; while
the effect of accident, followed out in the same manner,
is to annihilate itself, and to disappear altogether from
the result. '
Sect. III.— TheMethod of Least Squares.
13. The Method of Least Squares is in fact a method
of means, but with some peculiar characters. Its object
is to determine the best Mean of a number of observed
quantities; or the most probable Lam derived from a
number of observations, of which some, or all, are
allowed to be more or less imperfect. And the method
proceeds upon this supposition;—that all errours are
not equally probable, but that small errours are more
probable than large ones. By reasoning mathemati­
cally upon this ground, we find that the best result is
obtained (since we cannot obtain a result in which
the errours vanish) by making, not the Errours them­
selves, but the Sum of their Squares of the smallest
possible amount.
14. An example may illustrate this. Let a quantity
which is known to increase uniformly, (as the distance of
a star from the meridian at successive instants,) be mea­
sured at equal intervals of time, and be found to be suc­
cessively 4, 12, 14. It is plain, upon the face of these
observations that they are erroneous; for they ought to
form an arithmetical progression, but they deviate widely
from such a progression. But the question then occurs,
what arithmetical progression do they most probably
represent: for we may assume several arithmetical pro­
gressions which more or less approach the observed
series; as for instance, these three; 4, 9, 14; 6, 10,14;
5, 10, 15. Now in order to see the claims of each of
these to the truth, we may tabulate them thus.
408 METHODS EMPLOYED IN T1IE FORMATION OF SCIENCE.
SPECIAL METHODS OF INDUCTION.— QUANTITY. 4 0 9
Observation
4, 12, 14
Series (1) 4, 9, 14
„ (2) 6, 10, 14
„ (3) 5, 10, 15
Sums of Sums of Squares
Krrours. Errours. of Errouns.
0, 3, 0 ... 3 ... 9
2, 2,0 ... 4 ... 8
1, 2, 1 ... 4 ... 6
Here, although the first series gives the sum of the errours
less thau the others, the third series gives the sum of the
squares of the errours least ; and is therefore, by the pro­
position on which this Method depends, the probable
series of the three.
This Method, in more extensive and complex cases,
is a great aid to the calculator in his inferences from
facts, and removes much that is arbitrary in the Method
of Means.
Sect. IV.— The Method of Residues.
15. By either of the preceding Methods we obtain,
from observed facts, such laws as readily offer themselves;
and by the laws thus discovered, the most prominent
changes of the observed quantities are accounted for.
But in many cases we have, as we have noticed already,
sevei'al laws of nature operating at the same time, and
combining their influences to modify those quantities
which are the subjects of observation. In these cases we
may, by successive applications of the Methods already
pointed out, detect such laws one after another: but this
successive process, though only a repetition of what we
have already described, offers some peculiar features which
make it convenient to consider it in a separate Section,
as the Method of Residues.
16. When we have, in a series of changes of a variable
quantity, discovered one Law which the changes follow,
detected its argument, and determined its magnitude so
as to explain most clearly the course of observed facts,
we may still find that the observed changes are not fully
accounted for. When we compare the results of our
Law with the observations, there may be a difference, or
as we may term it, a R
e
s
i
d
u
e,still unexpla
this Residue being thus detached from the rest, may be
examined and scrutinized in the same manner as the
whole observed quantity was treated at first: and we may
in this way detect in italso a Law of cha
do this, we must accommodate this new found Law as
nearly as possible to the Residue to which it belongs; and
this being done, the difference of our Rule and of the
Residue itself forms aSecond Residue.
sidue we may again bring under our consideration; and
may perhaps in it also discover some Law of change by
which its alterations may be in some measure accounted
for. If this can be done, so as to account for a large
portion of this Residue, the remaining unexplained part
forms a Third R
e
s
i
d
u
e
; and so on.
17. This course has really been followed in various
inquiries, especially in those of Astronomy and Tidology.
The Equation qf the Center, for the moon, was obtained
out of the Residue of the Longitude, which remained
when the Mean Anomaly was taken away. This Equa­
tion being applied and disposed of, the Second Residue
thus obtained, gave to Ptolemy the Erection. The Third
Residue, left by the Equation of the Center and the Evec-
tion, supplied to Tycho the Variation and the Annual
Equation. And the Residue, remaining from these,
has been exhausted by other equations, of various argu­
ments, suggested by theory or by observation. In
this case, the successive generations of astronomers
have gone on, each in its turn executing some step in
this Method of Residues. In the examination of the
Tides, on the other hand, this method has been applied
systematically and at once. The observations readily
gave the Semimensual Inequality; the Residue of this
410 METHODS EMPLOYED IN THE FORMATION OF 8CIENCE.
supplied the corrections due to the Moon’s Parallax and
Declination; and when these were determined, the re­
maining Residue was explored for the law of the Solar
Correction.
18. In a certain degree, the Method of Residues and
the Method of Means are opposite to each other. For
the Method of Residues extricates Laws from their com­
bination, bringing them, into mem in succession; while the
Method of Means discovers each Law, not by bringing
the others into view, but by destroying their effect through
an accumulation of observations. By the Method of Re­
sidues we should first extract the Law of the Parallax
Correction of the Tides, and then, from the Residue left
by this, obtain the Declination Correction. But we
might at once employ the Method of Means, and put
together all the cases in which the Declination was the
same; not allowing for the Parallax in each case, but
taking for granted that the Parallaxes belonging to the
same Declination would neutralize each other; as many
falling above as below the mean parallax. In cases like
this, where the Method of Means is not impeded by a
partial coincidence ofthe Arguments ofdifferent unknown
Inequalities, it may be employed with almost as much
success as the Method of Residues. But still, when the
Arguments of the Laws are clearly known, as in this
instance, the Method of Residues is more clear and direct,
and is the rather to be recommended.
19. If for example, we wish to learn whether the
Height of the Barometer exerts any sensible influence on
the Height of the Sea’s Surface, it would appear that the
most satisfactory mode of proceeding, must be to subtract,
in the first place, what we know to be the effects of the
Moon’s Age, Parallax and Declination, and other ascer­
tained causes of change; and to search in the unexplained
Residue for the effects of barometrical pressure. The con-
SPECIAL METHODS OF INDUCTION.— QUANTITY. 411
Digitized by Google
trary course has, however, been adopted, and the effect of
the barometer on the ocean has been investigated by the
direct application of the Method of Means, classing the
observed heights of the water according to the corre­
sponding heights of the barometer without any previous
reduction. In this manner, the suspicion that the tide of
the sea is Effected by the pressure of the atmosphere, has
been confirmed. This investigation must be looked upon
as a remarkable instance of the efficacy of the Method
of Means, since the amount of the barometrical effect is
much smaller than the other changes from among which
it was by this process extricated. But an application of
the Method of Residues would still be desirable on a
subject of such extent and difficulty.
20. Sir John Herschel, in his Discourse on the Study
of Natural Philosophy (Articles 158— 161), has pointed
out the mode of making discoveries by studying Residual
Phenomena; and has given several illustrations of the
process. In some of these, he has also considered this
method in a wider sense than we have done; treating it
as not applicable to quantity only, but to properties and
relations of different kinds.
We likewise shall proceed to offer a few remarks on
Methods of Induction applicable to other relations than
those of quantity.
4 1 2 METHODS EMPLOYED IN THE FORMATION OF SCIENCE.
C h a p t e r VIII.
METHODS OF INDUCTION D EPEN D IN G ON
RESEM BLANCE.
Sect. I.— The Law of Continuity.
1. Tiie Law of Continuity is applicable to quantity
primarily, and therefore might be associated with the
methods treated of in the last chapter: but inasmuch as
its inferences are made by a transition from one degree
to another among contiguous cases, it will be found to
belong more properly to the Methods of Induction of
which we have now to speak.
The Lawof Continuity consists in this proposition,—
That a quantity cannot pass from one amount to another
by any change of conditions, without passing through all
intermediate degrees of magnitude according to the inter­
mediate conditions. And this law may often be employed
to correct inaccurate inductions, and to reject distinctions
which have no real foundation in nature. For example,
the Aristotelians made a distinction between motions
according to nature, as that of a body falling vertically
downwards, and motions contrary to nature, as that of a
body moving along a horizontal plane: the former, they
held, became naturally quicker and quicker, the latter
naturally slower and slower. But to this it might be
replied, that a horizontal line may pass, by gradual motion,
through various inclined positions, to a vertical position:
and thus the retarded motion may pass into the accele­
rated ; and hence there must be some inclined plane on
which the motion downwards is naturally uniform : which
is false, and therefore the distinction of such kinds of
motion is unfounded. Again, the proof of the First Law
ofMotion depends upon the Law of Continuity: for since,
by diminishing the resistance to a body moving on a
horizontal plane, we diminish the retardation, and this
without limit, the law of continuity will bring us at the
same time to the case of no resistance and to the case of
no retardation.
2. The Law of Continuity is asserted by Galileo in a
particular application; and the assertion which it suggests
is by him referred to Plato;—namely*, that a moveable
* Dialog, in. 150. iv. 32.
METHODS OF INDUCTION.— RESEMBLANCE. 4 1 3
body cannot pass from rest to a determinate degree of
velocity without passing through all smaller degrees of
velocity. This law, however, was first asserted in a more
general and abstract form by Leibnitz*: and was em­
ployed by him to show that the laws ofmotion propounded j
by Descartes must be false. The Third Cartesian Law
of Motion was th isf: that when one moving body meets
another, if the first body have a less momentum than the
second, it will be reflected with its whole motion: but if
the first have a greater momentum than the second, it
will lose a part of its motion, which it will transfer to
the second. Now each of these cases leads, by the Law
of Continuity, to the case in which the two bodies have ■
equal momentums: but in this case, by the first part of
the law the body would retain all its motion; and by the
second part of the law it would lose a portion of it: hence
the Cartesian Law is false.
3. I shall take another example of the application of
this Law from Professor Playfair’s Dissertation on the
History of Mathematical and Physical ScienceJ. “The
Academy of Sciences at Paris having (in 1724) proposed,
as a Prize Question, the Investigation of the Laws of the
Communication of Motion, John Bernoulli presented an
Essay on the subject very ingenious and profound; in
which, however, he denied the existence of hard bodies,
because in the collision of such bodies, a finite change of
motion must take place in an instant: an event which, on
the principle just explained, he maintained to be impos­
sible.” And this reasoning was justifiable: for we can
form a continuomtransition from cases in which
impact manifestly occupies a finite time, (as when we
strike a large soft body) to cases in which it is apparently
instantaneous. Maclaurin and others are disposed, in
* Optra, i. 366. + Cartes. Prin., p. 36.
X In the Eneyc. Brit., p 537-
4 1 4 METHODS EMPLOYED IN THE FORMATION OF SCIENCE. !
order to avoid the conclusion of Bernoulli, to reject the
Law of Continuity. This, however, would not only be,
as Playfair says, to deprive ourselves of an auxiliary, com­
monly useful though sometimes deceptive; but what is
much worse, to acquiesce in false propositions, from the
want of clear and patient thinking. For the Law of
Continuity, when rightly interpreted, is never violated in
actual fact. There are not really any such bodies as have
been termed perfectly hard: and if we approach towards
such cases, we must learn the laws of motion which rule
them by attending to the Law of Continuity, not by
rejecting it.
4. Newton used the Law of Continuity to suggest,
but not to prove, the doctrine of universal gravitation.
Let, he said, a terrestrial body be carried as high as the
moon: will it not still fall to the earth ?and does not the
moon fall by the same force*? Again: if any one says
that there is a material ether which does not gravitate+,
this kind of matter, by condensation, may be gradually
transmuted to the density of the most intensely gravi­
tating bodies: and these gravitating bodies, by taking the
internal texture of the condensed ether, may cease to
gravitate; and thus the weight of bodies depends, not
on their quantity of matter, but on their texture; which
doctrine Newton conceived he had disproved by expe­
riment.
5. The evidence of the Law of Continuity resides
in the universality of those ideas, which enter into our
apprehension of Laws of Nature. When, of two quan­
tities, one depends upon the other, the Law of Continuity
necessarily governs this dependence. Every philosopher
has the power of applying this law, in proportion as he has
the faculty of apprehending the ideas which he employs
in his induction, with the same clearness and steadiness
• Prinripia, Lib. in. Prop. 6. + lb., Cor. 2»
METHODS OF INDUCTION.— RESEMBLANCE. 4 1 5
which belong to the fundamental ideas of quantity, space
and number. To those who possess this faculty, the Law
is a Rule of very wide and decisive application. Its use,as
has appeared in the above examples, is seen rather inthe
disproof of erroneous views, and in the correction offalse
propositions, than in the invention of new truths. It is a
test of truth, rather than an instrument of discovery.
Methods, however, approaching very near to the Law
of Continuity may be employed as positive means of ob­
taining new truths; and these I shall now describe.
Se c t . II.— TheMethod of Gradation.
6. To gather together the cases which resemble each
other, and to separate those which are essentially distinct,
has often been described as the main business of science;
and may, in a certain loose and vague manner of speaking,
pass for a description of some of the leading procedures in
the acquirement of knowledge. The selection of instances
which agree, and of instances which differ, in some pro­
minent point or property, are important steps in the
formation of science. But when classes of things and
properties have been established in virtue of such com­
parisons, it may still be doubtful whether these classes
are separated by distinctions of opposites, or by differences
of degree. And to settle such questions, the Method of
Gradation is employed; which consists in taking inter­
mediate stages of the properties in question, so as to
ascertain by experiment whether, in the transition from
one class to another, we have to leap over a manifest gap,
or to follow a continuous road.
7. Thus for instance, one of the early Divisions estab­
lished by electrical philosophers was that of Electrics and
Conductors. But this division Faraday has overturned
as an essential opposition. He takes* a Gradation which
• Researches, 12th Series, Art. 1328.
4 1 6 METH0D8 EMPLOYED IN THE FORMATION OF SCIENCE.
Digitized by Googk
carries him from Conductors to Non-conductors. Sul­
phur, or lac, he says, are held to be non-conductors, but
are not rigorously so. Spermaceti is a bad conductor:
ice or water better than spermaceti: metals so much
better that they are put in a different class. But even in
metals the transit of the electricity is not instantaneous:
we have in them proof of a retardation of the electric
current: “and what reason,” Mr. Faraday asks, “ why
this retardation should not be of the same kind as that
in spermaceti, or in lac, or sulphur ? But as, in them,
retardation is insulation, [and insulation is induction*]
why should we refuse the same relation to the same
exhibitions of force in the metals
The process employed by the same sagacious philo­
sopher to show the identity of Voltaic and Franklinic
electricity, is another example of the same kindf. Ma­
chine [Franklinic] electricity was made to exhibit the
same phenomena as Voltaic electricity, by causing the
discharge to pass through a bad conductor, into a very
extensive discharging train: and thus it was clearly
shown that Franklinic electricity, not so conducted, differs
from the other kinds, only in being in a state of suc­
cessive tension and explosion instead of a state of con­
tinued current.
Again; to show' that the decomposition of bodies in
the Voltaic circuit was not due to the Attraction of the
Poles Mr. Faraday devised a beautiful series of expe­
riments, in which these supposed Poles were made to
assume all possible electrical conditions:—in which the
decomposition took place against air, which according to
common language is not a conductor, nor is decomposed •
—against the metalic poles, which are excellent conduc-
* These words refer to another proposition, also established by the
Method of Gradation. + Hist* Ind. S e x B. xiv. c. ix. sect. 2.
X IbidResearches, Art. 407-
V O L . I I . W . P . E E
METHODS OF INDUCTION.----RESEMBLANCE. 4 1 7
tors but undecomposable: and hence he infers that the
decomposition cannot justly be considered as due to the
Attraction, or Attractive Powers, of the Poles.
8. The reader of the Novum Organon may perhaps,
in looking at such examples of the Rule, be reminded
of some of Bacon’s classes of instances, as his instantke
absenticein p
r
o
x
i
m
o
, and his migrantes. But
we may remark that instances classed and treated as
Bacon recommends in those parts of his work, could
hardly lead to scientific truth. His processes are vitiated
by his proposing to himself the form or cause of the
property before him, as the object of his enquiry; instead
of being content to obtain, in the first place, the lam of
phenomena. Thus his example* of a migrating instance
is thus given. “ Let the nature inquired into be that
of whiteness; an instance migrating to the production
of this property is glass, first whole, and then pulverized;
or plain water, and water agitated into a foam; for glass
and water are transparent, and not white; but glass pow­
der and foam are white, and not transparent. Hence
we must inquire what has happened to the glass or
water in that migration. For it is plain that the form
of whiteness is conveyed and induced by the crushing of
the glass and shaking of the water.”
9. We may easily give examples from other subjects
in which the method of gradation has been used to esta­
blish, or to endeavour to establish, very extensive propo­
sitions. Thus Laplace’s Nebular Hypothesis,— that sys­
tems like our solar system are formed by gradual conden­
sation from diffused masses, such as the nebulae among
the stars,—is founded by him upon an application of
this Method of Gradation. We see, he conceives, among
these nebulae, instances of all degrees of condensation,
from the most loosely diffused fluid, to that separation
* Nor. O r g Lib. n. Aph. 28.
4 1 8 METHODS EMPLOYED IN THE FORMATION OF SCIENCE.
and solidification of parts by which suns, and satellites,
and planets are formed: and thus we have before us
instances of systems in all their stages; as in a forest we
see trees in every period of growth. How far the exam­
ples in this case satisfy the demands of the Method of
Gradation, it remains for astronomers and philosophers
to examine.
Again; this method was used with great success by
Macculloch and others to refute the opinion, put in cur­
rency by the Wernerian school of geologists, that the
rocks called traprocks must be classed with those to
which a sedimentary origin is ascribed. For it was shown
that a gradual transition might be traced from those
examples in which trap rocks most resembled stratified
rocks, to the lavas which have been recently ejected from
volcanoes: and that it was impossible to assign a different
origin to one portion, and to the other, of this kind of
mineral masses; and as the volcanic rocks were certainly
not sedimentary, it followed, that the trap rocks were
not of that nature.
Again; we have an attempt of a still larger kind
made by Mr. Lyell, to apply this Method of Gradation so
as to disprove all distinction between the causes by which
geological phenomena have been produced, and the causes
which are now acting at the earth’s surface. He has
collected a very remarkable series of changes which have
taken place, and are still taking place, by the action of
water, volcanoes, earthquakes, and other terrestrial ope­
rations; and he conceives he has shown in these a
gradation which leads, with no wide chasm or violent
leap, to the state ofthings of which geological researches
have supplied the evidence. .
10. Of the value of this Method in geological specu­
lations, no doubt can be entertained. Yet it must still
require a grave and profound consideration, in so vast an
EF,2
METHODS OF INDUCTION.— RESEMBLANCE. 419
application of the Method as that attempted by Mr. LyelL
to determine what extent we may allow to the steps of
our gradation; and to decide how far the changes which
have taken place in distant parts of the series may exceed
those of which we have historical knowledge, before they
cease to be of the same kind. Those who, dwelling in a
city, see, from time to time, one house built and another
pulled down, may say that such existing , operating
through past time, sufficiently explain the existing condi­
tion of the city. Yet we arrive at important political and
historical truths, by considering the origin of a city as an
event of a different ordei' from those daily changes. The
causes which are now working to produce geological
results, may be supposed to have been, at some former
epoch, so far exaggerated in their operation, that the
changes should be paroxysms, not degrees;—that they
should violate, not continue, the gradual series. And
we have no kind of evidence whether the duration of our
historical times is sufficient to give us a just measure of
the limits of such degrees;—whether the terms which we
have under our notice enable us to ascertain the average
rate of progression.
11. The result of such considerations seems to be
this:—that we may apply the Method of Gradation in
the investigation of geological causes, provided we leave
the Limits of the Gradation undefined. But, then, this
is equivalent to the admission of the opposite hypothesis:
for a continuity of which the successive intervals are not
limited, is not distinguishable from discontinuity. The
geological sects of recent times have been distinguished
as uniformitarians and catastrophists: the Method of
Gradation seems to prove the doctrine of the uniformi-
tarians; but then, at the same time that it does this, it
breaks down the distinction between them and the cata­
strophists.
4 2 0 METHODS EMPLOYED IN THE FORMATION OF SCIENCE.
METHODS OF INDUCTION.— RESEMBLANCE. 4 21
There are other exemplifications of the use of grada­
tions in Science which well deserve notice: but some of
them are of a kind somewhat different, and may be con­
sidered under a separate head.
Sect. III. The Method of Natural Classification.
12. The method of natural classification consists, as
we have seen, in grouping together objects, not according
to any selected properties, but according to their most
important resemblances; and in combining such grouping
with the assignation of certain marks of the classes thus
formed. The examples of the successful application
of this method are to be found in the Classificatory
Sciences through their whole extent; as, for example,
in framing the Genera of plants and animals. The
same method, however, may often be extended to other
sciences. Thus the classification of crystalline forms,
according to their degree of symmetry, (which is really
an important distinction,) as introduced by Mohs and
Weiss, was a great improvement upon Hai'iy’s arbitrary
division according to certain assumed primary forms.
Sir David Brewster was led to the same distinction of
crystals by the study of their optical properties; and the
scientific value of the classification was thus strongly
exhibited. Mr. Howard’s classification of clouds appears
to be founded in their real nature, since it enables him
to express the laws of their changes and successions.
As we have elsewhere said, the criterion of a true classi­
fication is, that it makes general propositions possible.
One of the most prominent examples of the beneficial
influence of a right classification, is to be seen in the
impulse given to geology by the distinction of strata
according to the organic fossils which they contain*:
* Hut.Ind. Set., B. xviii. c. ii. sect. 3.
which, ever since its general adoption, has been a leading
principle in the speculations of geologists.
13. The mode in which, in this and in other cases,
the Method of Natural Classification directs the researches
of the philosopher, is this:— his arrangement being
adopted, at least as an instrument of inquiry and trial,
he follows the course of the different members of the
classification, according to the guidance which Nature
herself offers; not prescribing beforehand the marks of
each part, but distributing the facts according to the
total resemblances, or according to those resemblances
which he finds to be most important. Thus, in tracing
the course of a series of strata from place to place, we
identify each stratum, not by any single character, but by
all taken together;—texture, colour, fossils, position, and
any other circumstances which offer themselves. And
if, by this means, we come to ambiguous cases, where
different indications appear to point different ways, we
decide so as best to preserve undamaged those general
relations and truths which constitute the value of our
system. Thus although we consider the organic fossils
in each stratum as its most important characteristic, we
are not prevented, by the disappearance of some fossils,
or the addition of others, or by the total absence of fossils,
from identifying strata in distant countries, if the position
and other circumstances authorize us to do so. And by
this Method of Classification, the doctrine of Geological
Equivalents*has been applied to a great part of Europe.
14. We may further observe, that the same method
of natural classification which thus enables us to identify
strata in remote situations, notwithstanding there may be
great differences in their material and contents, also for­
bids us to assume the identity of the series of rocks which
* Hist. Irui. S c i B. xviii. c. iii. sect. 4.
4 2 2 METHODS EMPLOYED IN THE FORMATION OF SCIENCE.
METHODS OF INDUCTION— RESEMBLANCE. 4 2 3
occur in different countries, when this identity has not
been verified by such a continuous exploration of the com­
ponent members of the series. It would be in the highest
degree unphilosophical to apply the special names of the
English orGerman strata to the rocks of India, orAmerica,
or even of southern Europe, till it has appeared that in
those countries the geological series of northern Europe
really exists. In each separate country, the divisions of
the formations which compose the crust of the earth must
be made out, by applying the Method of Natural Arrange­
ment tothat particular case., and not by arbitrarily
extending to it the nomenclature belonging to another
case. It is only by such precautions, that we can ever
succeed in obtaining geological propositions, at the same
time true and comprehensive; or can obtain any sound
general views respecting the physical history of the
earth.
15. The Method of Natural Classification, which we
thus recommend, falls in with those mental habits which
we formerly described as resulting from the study of
natural history. The method was then termed the
Method of Type, and was put in opposition to the Method
o f Definition.
The Method of Natural Classification is directly op­
posed to the process in which we assume and apply arbi­
tra ry definitions; for in the former Method, we find our
classes in nature, and do not make them by marks of our
own imposition. Nor can any advantage to the progress
of knowledge be procured, by laying down our characters
when our arrangements are as yet quite loose and un­
formed. Nothing was gained by the attempts to define
Metals by their weight, their hardness, their ductility,
their colour; for to all these marks, as fast as they were
proposed, exceptions were found, among bodies which
still could not be excluded from the list of Metals. It
was only when elementary substances were divided into
Natural Classes, of which classes Metals were one, that
a true view of their distinctive characters was obtained
Definitions in the outset of our examination of nature
are almost always, not only useless, but prejudicial.
16. When we obtain a law of nature by induction
from phenomena, it commonly happens, as we have
already seen, that we introduce, at the same time, a Pro­
position and a Definition. In this case, the two are cor­
relative, each giving a real value to the other. In such
cases, also, the Definition, as well as the Proposition, may
become the basis of rigorous reasoning, and may lead to
a series of deductive truths. We have examples ofsuch
Definitions and Propositions in the laws of motion, and
in many other cases.
17. When we have established Natural Classes of
objects, we seek for Characters of our classes; and these
Characters may, to a certain extent, be called the Defini­
tions of our classes. This is to be understood, however,
only in a limited sense: for these Definitions are not
absolute and permanent. They are liable to be modified
and superseded. If we find a case which manifestly be­
longs to our Natural Class, though violating our Defini­
tion, we do not shut out the case, but alter our defini­
tion. Thus, when we have made it part of our Definition
of the Rose family, that they have alternate stipulate
leaves, we do not, therefore, exclude from the family
the genus Lorccea, which has no stipulce. In Natural
Classifications, our Definitions are to be considered as
temporary and provisional only. When Mr. Lyell esta­
blished the distinctions of the tertiary strata, which he
termed Eocene, Miocene, and Pliocene, he took a nume­
rical criterion (the proportion of recent species of shells
contained in those strata) as the basis of his division.
But now that those kinds of strata have become, by their
4 2 4 METHODS EMPLOYED IN THE FORMATION OF SCIENCE.
METHODS OF INDUCTION.— RESEMBLANCE. 4 2 5
application to a great variety of cases, a series of Natu­
ral Classes, we must, in our researches, keep in view the
natural connexion of the formations themselves in differ- .
ent places; and must by no means allow ourselves to be
governed by the numerical proportions which were
originally contemplated; or even by any amended nu­
merical criterion equally arbitrary; for however amended,
Definitions in natural history are never immortal. The
etymologies of Pliocene and Miocene may, hereafter,
come to have merely an historical interest; and such a
state of things will be no more inconvenient, provided
the natural connexions of each class are retained, than
it is to call a rock oolite or porphyry, when it has no
roelike structure and no fiery spots.
The Methods of Induction which are treated of in
this and the preceding chapter, and which are specially
applicable to causes governed by relations of Quantity or
of Resemblance, commonly lead us to Lams of Pheno­
mena only. Inductions founded upon other ideas, those
of Substance and Cause for example, appear to conduct
us somewhat further into a knowledge of the essential
nature and real connexions of things. But before we
speak of these, we shall say a few words respecting
the way in which inductive propositions, once obtained,
may be verified and carried into effect by their appli­
cation.
Chapter IX.
OF THE APPLICATION OF INDUCTIVE TRUTHS.
1. By the application of inductive truths, we here
mean, according to the arrangement given in Chap. i. of
this Book, those steps, which in the natural order of
science, follow the discovery of each truth. These steps
are, the verification of the discovery by additional expe­
riments and reasonings, and its extension to new cases,
not contemplated by the original discoverer. These pro­
cesses occupy that period, which, in the history of each
great discovery, we have termed the Sequel of the epoch;
as the collection of facts, and the elucidation of concep­
tions, form its Prelude.
2. It is not necessary to dwell at length on the pro
cesses of the verification of discoveries. When the law
of nature is once stated, it is far easier to devise and
execute experiments which prove it, than it was to dis­
cern the evidence before. The truth becomes one of the
standard doctrines of the science to which it belongs,
and is verified by all who study or who teach the science
experimentally. The leading doctrines of chemistry are
constantly exemplified by each chemist in his Labora­
tory ; and an amount of verification is thus obtained of
which books give no adequate conception. In astro­
nomy, we have a still stronger example of the process of
verifying discoveries. Ever since the science assumed
a systematic form, there have been Observatories, in
which the consequences of the theory were habitually
compared with the results of observation. And to facili­
tate this comparison, Tables of great extent have been
calculated, with immense labour, from each theory, show­
ing the place which the theory assigned to the heavenly
bodies at successive times; and thus, as it were, challeng­
ing nature to deny the truth of the discovery. In this
way, as I have elsewhere stated, the continued prevalence
of an errour in the systematic parts of astronomy is
impossible*. An errour, if it arise, makes its way into
the tables, into the ephemeris, into the observer’s nightly
list, or his sheet of reductions; the evidence of sense
flies in its face in a thousand Observatories; the dis­
* Hist. Ittd. Sei.y B. vn. c. vi. sect. 6.
4 2 6 METHODS EMPLOYED IN THE FORMATION OF SCIENCE.
APPLICATION OF INDUCTIVE TRUTHS. 4 2 7
crepancy is traced to its source, and soon disappears for
ever.
3. In these last expressions, we suppose the theory,
not only to be tested, but also to be corrected when it is
found to be imperfect. And this also is part of the busi­
ness of the observing astronomer. From his accumulated
observations, he deduces more exact values than had pre­
viously been obtained, of the Coefficients of these Ine­
qualities of which the Argument is already known. This
he is enabled to do by the methods explained in the fifth
chapter of this Book; the Method of Means, and espe­
cially the Method of Least Squares. In other cases, he
finds, by the Method of Residues, some new Inequality;
for if no change of the Coefficients will bring the Tables
and the observation to a coincidence, he knows that a
new Term is wanting in his formula. He obtains, as far
as he can, the law of this unknown Term; and when its
existence and its law have been fully established, there
remains the task of tracing it to its cause.
4. The condition of the science of Astronomy, with
regard to its security and prospect of progress, is one of
singular felicity. It is a question well worth our con­
sideration, as regarding the interests of science, whether,
in other branches of knowledge also, continued and
connected system of observation and , imitat­
ing the system employed by astronomers, might not be
adopted. But the discussion of this question would
involve us in a digression too wide for the present occa­
sion.
5. There is another mode of application of true theo­
ries after their discovery, of which we must also speak;
I mean the process of showing that facts, not included in
the original induction, and apparently of a different kind,
are explained by reasonings founded upon the theory.
The history of physical astronomy is full of such events.
Thus after Bradley and Wargentin had observed a cer­
tain cycle among the perturbations of Jupiter’s satellites,
Laplace explained this cycle by the doctrine of universal
gravitation*. The long inequality of Jupiter and Saturn,
the diminution of the obliquity of the ecliptic, the acce­
leration of the moon’s mean motion, were in like manner
accounted for by Laplace. The coincidence of the nodes
of the moon’s equator with those of her orbit was proved
to result from mechanical principles by Lagrange. The
motions of the recently-discovered planets, and of comets,
shown by various mathematicians to be in exact accord­
ance with the theory, are verifications and extensions
still more obvious.
6. In many of the cases just noticed, the consistency
between the theory, and the consequences thus proved
to result from it, is so far from being evident, that the
most consummate command of all the powers and aids
of mathematical reasoning is needed, to enable the phi­
losopher to arrive at the result. In consequence of this
circumstance, the labours just referred to, of Laplace,
Lagrange, and others, have been the object of very great
and very just admiration. Moreover, the necessary con­
nexion of new facts, at first deemed inexplicable, with
principles already known to be true;—a connexion
utterly invisible at the outset, and yet at last established
with the certainty of demonstration;—strikes us with the
delight of a new discovery; and at first sight appears no
less admirable than an original induction. Accordingly,
men sometimes appear tempted to consider Laplace and
other great mathematicians as persons of a kindred
genius to Newton. We must not forget, however, that
there is a great and essential difference between induc­
tive and deductive processes of the mind. The discovery
of a new theory, which is true, is a step widely distinct
• Hitt.Ind. Set., B. vn. c. iv. sect. 3.
4 2 8 METHODS EMPLOYED IN THE FORMATION OF SCIENCE.
Digitized by Google
APPLICATION OF INDUCTIVE TRUTHS. 4 2 9
from any mere developement of the consequences of a
theory already invented and established.
7. As an example, in another field, of the extension
of a discovery by applying it to the explanation of new
phenomena, we may adduce Wells’s Inquiry into the
Cause of Dem.For this investigation, although it has
sometimes been praised as an original discovery, was,
in fact, only resolving the phenomenon into principles
already discovered. The atmologists of the last century
were aware* that the vapour which exists in air in an
invisible state may be condensed into water by cold;
and they had noticed that there is always a certain tem­
perature, lower than that of the atmosphere, to which
if we depress bodies, water forms upon them in fine
drops. This temperature is the limit of that which is
necessary to constitute vapour, and is hence called the
constituent temperature. But these principles were not
generally familiar in England till Dr. Wells introduced
them into his Essay on Dew, published in 1814; having
indeed been in a great measure led to them by his own
experiments and reasonings. His explanation of Dew,
—that it arises from the coldness of the bodies on which
it settles,—was established with great ingenuity; and is
a very elegant confirmation of the Theory of Constituent
Temperature.
8. The example of all the best writers who have pre­
viously treated of the philosophy of sciences, from Bacon
to Herschel, draws our attention to those instances of
the application of scientific truths, which are subservient
to the uses of practical life; to the support, the preser­
vation, the pleasure of man. It is well known in how
large a degree the furtherance of these objects consti­
tuted the merit of the Novum Organon in the eyes of
its author; and the enthusiasm with which men regard
* Hist. Jnd. S c i B. x. c. iii. sect, 5.
these visible and tangible manifestations of the power
and advantage which knowledge may bring, has gone on
increasing up to our own day. Such useful inventions
as we here refer to must always be objects of great phi­
losophical, as well as practical interest; and it might be
well worth our while, did our present limits allow, to
discuss the bearing of such inventions upon the forma­
tion and progress of science. For the present, it must
suffice to observe that those practical inventions which
are of most importance in the Arts, are rarely or never
of any material consequence to Science; for they are
either mere practical processes, which the artist prac­
tises, but which the scientist cannot account for: or at
most, they depend upon some of the inferior generaliza­
tions of science for their reason, and do not tend to con­
firm or illustrate the higher points at which theory has
arrived. These considerations must be our apology for
not entering into this discussion at the present advanced
stage of our undertaking. As we have already sad,
knowledge is power; but its interest for us in the pre­
sent work, is not that it is power, but that it is know­
ledge. The effect which the application of science to
general practical uses has in diffusing a knowledge of
theoretical principles, and thus in giving to men’s minds
an intellectual culture, is indeed well worthy our atten­
tion ; but the consideration of this subject must be
reserved for some future occasion.
We must now conclude our task by a few words on
the subject of inductions involving Ideas ulterior to those
already considered.
4 3 0 METHODS EMPLOYED IN THE FORMATION OF SCIENCE.
OF THE INDUCTION OF CAUSES. 4 31
C h a p t e r X.
OF TH E INDUCTION OF CAUSES.
1. We formerly* stated the objects of the researches
of Science to be Laws of Phenomena and Causes ; and
showed the propriety and the necessity of not resting in
the former object, but extending our inquiries to the
latter also. Inductions, in which phenomena are con­
nected by relations of Space, Time, Number and Resem­
blance, belong to the former class ; and of the Methods
applicable to such Inductions we have treated already.
In proceeding to Inductions governed by any ulterior
Ideas, we can no longer lay down any Special Methods
by which our procedure may be directed. A few gene­
ral remarks are all that we shall offer.
The principal Maxim in such cases of Induction is
the obvious one :—that we must be careful to possess and
to apply, with perfect clearness and precision, the Funda­
mental Idea on which the Induction depends.
We may illustrate this in a few cases.
2 . Induction of Substance.—The Idea of Substance f
involves this axiom, that the weight of the whole com­
pound must be equal to the weights of the separate
elements, whatever changes the composition or separation
of the elements may have occasioned. The application
of this Maxim we may term the Method of the Balance.
We have seen^; how the memorable revolution in Che­
mistry, the overthrow of phlogiston, and the establish­
ment of the oxygen theory, was produced by the applica­
tion of this Method. We have seen too$ that the same
Idea leads us to this Maxim ;—that Imponderable Fluids
are not to be admitted as chemical elements of bodies.
+ Ibid., v
t. c. iii.
§ Ibid.
• Book xi. c. vii.
% Ibid., B. vi. c. iv.
Whether those which have been termed Imponder­
able Fluids,—the supposed fluids which produce the
phenomena of Light, Heat, Electricity, Galvanism, Mag­
netism,—really exist or no, is a question, not merely of
the L
a
m
s
, but of the Causes of Phenomena. It is, as
has already been shown, a question which we cannot
help discussing, but which is at present involved in great
obscurity. Nor does it appear at all likely that we shall
obtain a true view of the cause of Light, Heat, and Elec­
tricity, till we have discovered precise and general laws
connecting optical, thermotical, and electrical phenomena
with those chemical doctrines to which the Idea of Sub­
stance is necessarily applied.
3. Induction of Force.—The inference of Mechanical
Forces from phenomena has been so abundantly prac­
tised, that it is perfectly familiar among scientific in­
quirers. From the time of Newton, it has been the most
common aim of mathematicians; and a persuasion has
grown up among them, that mechanical forces,—attrac­
tion and repulsion,—are the only modes of action of the
particles of bodies which we shall ultimately have to
consider. I have attempted to show that this mode of
conception is inadequate to the purposes of sound philo­
sophy;—that the particles of crystals, and the elements of
chemical compounds, must be supposed to be combined
in some other way than by mere mechanical attraction
and repulsion. Dr. Faraday has gone further in shaking
the usual conceptions of the force exerted, in well-known
cases. Among the most noted and conspicuous instances
of attraction and repulsion exerted at a distance, were
those which take place between electrized bodies. But
the eminent electrician just mentioned has endeavoured
to establish, by experiments of which it is very difficult
to elude the weight, that the action in these cases does
not take place at a distance, but is the result of a chain
4 3 2 METHODS EMPLOYED IN THE FORMATION OF SCIENCE.
INDUCTION OF CAUSES. 433
of intermediate particles connected at every point by
forces of another kind.
4. Induction qf Polarity.—The forces to which Mr.
Faraday ascribes the action in these cases are Polar
Forces. We have already endeavoured to explain the
Idea of Polar Forces; which impliesf that at every point
forces exactly equal act in opposite directions; and thus,
in the greater part of their course, neutralize and con­
ceal each other; while at the extremities of the line,
being by some cause liberated, they are manifested, still
equal and opposite. And the criterion by which this
polar character of forces is recognized, is implied in the
reasoning of Faraday, on the question of one or two
electricities, of which we formerly spokeJ. The maxim
is this:— that in the action of polar forces, along with
every manifestation of force or property, there exists a
corresponding and simultaneous manifestation of an
equal and opposite force or property.
5. As it was the habit of the last age to reduce all
action to mechanical forces, the present race of physi­
cal speculators appears inclined to reduce all forces to
polar forces. Mosotti has endeavoured to show that the
positive and negative electricities pervade all bodies, and
that gravity is only an apparent excess of one of the
kinds over the other. As we have seen, Faraday has
given strong experimental grounds for believing that
the supposed remote actions of electrized bodies are
really the effects of polar forces among contiguous par­
ticles. If this doctrine were established with regard to
all electrical, magnetical, and chemical forces, we might
ask, whether, while all other forces are polar, gravity
really affords a single exception to the universal rule?
Is not the universe pervaded by an omnipresent anta­
* Re$earchet, 12th Series. t B. v. c. i.
t Ibid.
VOL. II. W. P. F F
gonism, a fundamental conjunction of contraries, every­
where opposite, nowhere independent? We are, as yet,
far from the position in which Inductive Science can
enable us to answer such inquiries.
6. Induction of Ulterior Causes.—The first Induc­
tion of a Cause does not close the business of scientific
inquiry. Behind proximate causes, there are ulterior
causes, perhaps a succession of such. Gravity is the
cause of the motions of the planets; but what is the
cause of gravity ? This is a question which has occupied
men’s minds from the time of Newton to the present
day. Earthquakes and volcanoes are the causes of many
geological phenomena; but what is the cause of those
subterraneous operations? This inquiry after ulterior
causes is an inevitable result from the intellectual con­
stitution of man. He discovers mechanical causes, but
he cannot rest in them. He must needs ask, whence
it is that matter has its universal power of attracting
matter. He discovers polar forces: but even if these be
universal, he still desires a further insight into the cause
of this polarity. He sees, in organic structures, convinc­
ing marks of adaptation to an end: whence, he asks, is
this adaptation ? He traces in the history of the earth
a chain of causes and effects operating through time:
but what, he inquires, is the power which holds the end
of this chain ?
Thus we are referred back from step to step, in the
order of causation, in the same manner as, in the palse-
tiological sciences, we were referred back in the order
of time. We make discovery after discovery in the
various regions of science; each, it may be, satisfactory,
and in itself complete, but none final. Something always
remains undone. The last question answered, the answer
suggests still another question. The strain of music
from the lyre of Science flows on, rich and sweet, full
4 3 4 METOODS EMPLOYED IN THE FORMATION OF SCIENCE
INDUCTION OF CAUSES. 4 3 5
and harmonious, but never reaches a close: no cadence
is heard with which the intellectual ear can feel satisfied.
Of theSupt'eme Cause.—In the utterance of Science,
no cadence is heard with which the human mind can
feel satisfied. Yet we cannot but go on listening
for and expecting a satisfactory close. The notion of a
cadence appears to be essential to our relish of the
music. The idea of some closing strain seems to lurk
among our own thoughts, waiting to be articulated in
the notes which flow from the knowledge of external
nature. The idea of something ultimate in our philo­
sophical researches, something in which the mind can
acquiesce, and which will leave us no further questions
to ask, of w
h
e
n
c
e,
and why, and by what power, seems as
if it belonged to us;—as if we could not have it withheld
from us by any imperfection or incompleteness in the
actual performances of science. What is the meaning
of this conviction ? What is the reality thus anticipated ?
Whither does the developement of this Idea conduct us ?
We have already seen that a difficulty of the same
kind, which arises in the contemplation of causes and
effects considered as forming an historical series, drives
us to the assumption of a First Cause, as an Axiom to
which our Idea of Causation in time necessarily leads.
And as we were thus guided to a First Cause in order of
Succession, the same kind of necessity directs us to a
Supreme Cause in order of Causation.
On this most weighty subject it is difficult to speak
fitly; and the present is not the proper occasion, even
for most of that which may be said. But there are one
or two remarks which flow from the general train of the
contemplations we have been engaged in, and with which
this Work must conclude.
We have seen how different are the kinds of cause to
which we are led by scientific researches. Mechanical
F F 2
Fwcesare insufficient without Chemical Affinities; Che­
mical agencies fail us, and we are compelled to have
recourse to Vital Powers; Vital Powers cannot be
merely physical, and we must believe in something
hyperphysical, something of the nature of a Soul. Not
only do biological inquiries lead us to assume an animal
soul, but they drive us much further; they bring before
us Perception, and Will evoked by Perception. Still
more, these inquiries disclose to us Ideas as the neces­
sary forms of Perception, in the actions of which we our­
selves are conscious. We are aware, we cannot help
being aware, of our Ideas and our Volitions as belonging
to us, and thus we pass from things to persons; we have
the idea of Personality awakened. And the idea of
Design and Purpose, of which we are conscious in our
own minds, we find reflected back to us, with a distinct­
ness which we cannot overlook, in all the arrangements
which constitute the frame of organized beings.
We cannot but reflect how widely diverse are the
kinds of principles thus set before us;—by what vast
strides we mount from the lower to the higher, as we
proceed through that series of causes which the range
of the sciences thus brings under our notice. Yet we
know how narrow is the range of these sciences when
compared with the whole extent of human knowledge.
We cannot doubt that on many other subjects, besides
those included in physical speculation, man has made
out solid and satisfactory trains of connexion;—has dis­
covered clear and indisputable evidence of causation. It
is manifest, therefore, that, if we are to attempt to
ascend to the Supreme Cause—if we are to try to frame
an idea of the Cause of all these subordinate causes;—
we must conceive it as more different from any of them,
than the most diverse are from each other;—more ele­
vated above the highest, than the highest is above the
lowest.
4 3 6 METHODS EMPLOYED IN THE FORMATION OF SCIENCE.
Digitized by Google
INDUCTION OK CAUSES. 437
But further;—though the Supreme Cause must thus
be inconceivably different from all subordinate causes,
and immeasurably elevated above them all, it must still
include in itself all that is essential to each of them, by
virtue of that very circumstance that it is the Cause of
their Causality. Time and Space,—Infinite Time and
Infinite Space,—must be among its attributes; for we
cannot but conceive Infinite Time and Space as attributes
of the Infinite Cause of the Universe. Force and
Matter must depend upon it for their efficacy; for we
cannot conceive the activity of Force, or the resistance of
Matter, to be independent powers. But these are its
lower attributes. The Vital Powers, the Animal Soul,
which are the Causes of the actions of living things, are
only the Effects of the Supreme Cause of Life. And
this Cause, even in the lowest forms of organized bodies,
and still more in those which stand higher in the scale,
involves a reference to Ends and Purposes, in short, to
manifest Final Causes. Since this is so, and since, even
when we contemplate ourselves in a view studiously
narrowed, we still find that we have Ideas, and Will and
Personality, it would render our philosophy utterly inco­
herent and inconsistent with itself, to suppose that Per­
sonality, and Ideas, and Will, and Purpose, do not belong
to the Supreme Cause from which we derive all that we
have and all that we are.
But we may go a step further;—though, in our pre­
sent field of speculation, we confine ourselves to know­
ledge founded on the facts which the external world
presents to us, we cannot forget, in speaking of such
a theme as that to which we have thus been led, that
these are but a small, and the least significant portion
of the facts which bear upon it. We cannot fail to
recollect that there are facts belonging to the world
within us, which more readily and strongly direct our
thoughts to the Supreme Cause of all things. We can
plainly discern that we have Ideas elevated above the
region of mechanical causation, of animal existence, even
of mere choice and will, which still have a clear and
definite significance, a permanent and indestructible vali­
dity. We perceive as a fact, that we have a Conscience,
judging of Right and Wrong; that we have Ideas of
Moral Good and Evil; that we are compelled to con­
ceive the organization of the moral world, as well as of
the vital frame, to be directed to an end and governed
by a purpose. And since the Supreme Cause is the
cause of these facts, the Origin of these Ideas, we cannot
refuse to recognize Him as not only the Maker, but the
Governor of the World; as not only a Creative, but a
Providential Power; as not only a Universal Father, but
an Ultimate Judge.
We have already passed beyond the boundary of
those speculations which we proposed to ourselves as
the basis of our conclusions. Yet we may be allowed
to add one other reflection. If we find in ourselves
Ideas of Good and Evil, manifestly bestowed upon us
to be the guides of our conduct, which guides we yet
find it impossible consistently to obey;—if we find our­
selves directed, even by our natural light, to aim at a
perfection of our moral nature from which we are con­
stantly deviating through weakness and perverseness;—
if, when we thus lapse and err, we can find, in the region
of human philosophy, no power which can efface our
aberrations, or reconcile our actual with our ideal being,
or give us any steady hope and trust with regard to our
actions, after we have thus discovered their incongruity
with their genuine standard;—if we discern that this is
our condition, how can we fail to see that it is in the
highest degree consistent with all the indications sup­
plied by such a philosophy as that of which we have been
4 3 8 METHODS EMPLOYED IN THE FORMATION OF SCIENCE.
J
INDUCTION OF CAUSES. 4 3 9
attempting to lay the foundations, that the Supreme
Cause, through whom man exists as a moral being of
vast capacities and infinite hopes, should have Himself
provided a teaching for our ignorance, a propitiation for
our sin, a support for our weakness, a purification and
sanctification of our nature ?
And thus, in concluding our long survey of the
grounds and structure of science, and of the lessons
which the study of it teaches us, we find ourselves
brought to a point of view in which we can cordially
sympathize, and more than sympathize, with all the
loftiest expressions of admiration and reverence and hope
and trust, which have been uttered by those who in
former times have spoken of the elevated thoughts to
which the contemplation of the nature and progress of
human knowledge gives rise. We can not only hold
with Galen, and Harvey, and all the great physiologists,
that the organs of animals give evidence of a purpose;
—not only assert with Cuvier that this conviction of a
purpose can alone enable us to understand every part
of every living thing;—not only say with Newton that
“every true step made in philosophy brings us nearer
to the First Cause, and is on that account highly to be
valued —and that “the business of natural philosophy
is to deduce causes from effects, till we come to the very
First Cause, which certainly is not mechanical:”—but
we can go much further, and declare, still with Newton,
that “ this beautiful system could have its origin no
other way than by the purpose and command of an intel­
ligent and powerful Being, who governs all things, not
as the soul of the world, but as the Lord of the Universe;
who is not only God, but Lord and Governor.”
When we have advanced so far, there yet remains
one step. We may recollect the prayer of one, the mas­
ter in this school of the philosophy of science: “ This
4 4 0 METHODS EMPLOYED IN THE FORMATION OF SCIENCE.
also we humbly and earnestly beg ;—that human things
may not prejudice such as are divine;—neither that
from the unlocking of the gates of sense, and the kin­
dling of a greater natural light, anything may arise of
incredulity or intellectual night towards divine myste­
ries ; but rather that by our minds thoroughly purged
and cleansed from fancy and vanity, and yet subject and
perfectly given up to the divine oracles, there may be
given unto faith the things that are faith’s.” When we
are thus prepared for a higher teaching, we may be
ready to listen to a greater than Bacon, when he says to
those who have sought their God in the material uni­
verse, “ Whom ye ignorantly worship, him declare I unto
you.” And when we recollect how utterly inadequate
all human language has been shown to be, to express
the nature of that Supreme Causé of the Natural, and
Rational, and Moral, and Spiritual world, to which our
Philosophy points with trembling finger and shaded
eyes, we may receive, with the less wonder but with the
more reverence, the declaration which has been vouch­
safed to us :
EN APXH HN 'O AOrOI, K A I '0 Aoroi HN nPOI TON 6E0N,
KAI OEOI HN *0 AOrOI.
APHORISMS.
The following Aphorisms exhibit some of the principal
results of the views and discussions contained in the
preceding pages of this work, expressed in a compact
manner, and detached from the reasonings on which
they rest. At the end of each Aphorism* reference is
made to the Book and Chapter where its import is
discussed in the work.
Along with these, I shall add some other Aphorisms
on the subject of the Language of Science; a subject in
which it appears to be time to collect, from the usage of
the most judicious writers, some rules which may tend to
preserve the purity and analogies of scientific language
from wanton and needless violation. As this subject is
not discussed in the work itself, I have given, along with
these Aphorisms, such examples as may tend to confirm
and illustrate them, and have applied them to some cases
at present unsettled.
A P H O R I S M S C O N C E R N I N G I D E A S .
I.
M a n is the Interpreter of Nature, Science the right
interpretation. (Book i. Chapter 1.)
H.
The Senses place before us the Characters of the
Book of Nature; but these convey no knowledge to us,
till we have discovered the Alphabet by which they are
to be read. (i. 2.)
III.
The Alphabet, by means of which we interpret Phe­
nomena, consists of the Ideas existing in our own minds;
for these give to the phenomena that coherence and
significance which is not an object of sense, (i. 2.)
IV.
The antithesis of Sense and Ideas is the foundation
of the Philosophy of Science. No knowledge can exist
without the union, no philosophy without the separation,
of these two elements, (i. 2.)
, V.
Fact and Theory correspond to Sense on the one
hand, and to Ideas on the other, so far as we are
conscious of our Ideas: but all facts involve ideas un­
consciously; and thus the distinction of Facts and
Theories is not tenable, as that of Sense and Ideas is.
(i. 2.)
4 4 4 APHORISMS
VI.
Sensations and Ideas in our knowledge are like
Matter and Form in bodies. Matter cannot exist with­
out Form, nor Form without Matter: yet the two are
altogether distinct and opposite. There is no possibility
either of separating, or of confounding them. The same
is the case with Sensations and Ideas, (i. 2.)
VII.
Ideas are not ¿rawsforrned, but ¿»formed Sensatious;
for without ideas, sensations have no form. (i. 2.)
VIII.
The Sensations are the , the Ideas the Sub­
jective part of every act of perception or knowledge,
(i. 2.)
IX.
General Terms denote Ideal Conceptions, as a circle,
an orbit, a rose. These are not Images of real things,
as was held by the Realists, but Conceptions: yet they
are conceptions, not bound together by mere Name, as
the Nominalists held, but by an Idea. (i. 2.)
X.
It has been said by some, that all Conceptions are
merely states or feelings of the mind, but this assertion
only tends to confound what it is our business to dis­
tinguish. (i. 2.)
XI.
Observed Facts are connected so as to produce new
truths, by superinducing upon them an Idea: and such
truths are obtained by Induction, (i. 2.)
XII.
Truths once obtained by legitimate Induction are
Facts: these Facts may be again connected, so as to
produce higher truths: and thus we advance to Succes­
sive Generalizations, (i. 2.)
CONCERNING SCIENCE. 4 4 5
XIII.
Truths obtained by Induction are made compact and
permanent by being expressed in Technical Terms.
(i. 3.)
XIV.
Experience cannot conduct us to universal and neces­
sary truths:—Not to universal, because she has not tried
all cases:—Not to necessary, because necessity is not a
matter to which experience can testify, (i. 5.)
XV.
Necessary truths derive their necessity from the
Ideas which they involve; and the existence of necessary
truths proves the existence of Ideas not generated by
experience, (i. 5.)
XVI.
In Deductive Reasoning, we cannot have any truth
in the conclusion which is not virtually contained in the
premises, (i. 6.)
XVII.
In order to acquire any exact and solid knowledge,
the student must possess with perfect precision the ideas
appropriate to that part of knowledge: and this pre­
cision is tested by the student’s ■perceiving the axiomatic
evidence of the axiom belonging to each Fundamental
Idea. (i. 6.)
XVIII.
The Fundamental Ideas which it is most important
to consider, as being the Bases of the Material Sciences,
are the Ideas of S
p
a
c
e
,T
im
e(including Number), Cause
(including Force and Matter), Outness of Objects, and
Media of Perception of Secondary Qualities, Polarity
4 4 6 APHORISMS.
(Contrariety), Chemical Composition and Sub­
stance, Likeness and Natural Affinity, Means and Ends
(whence the notion of Organization), and the
Ideas of Vital P
o
w
e
r
s
.
(i. 8.)
XIX.
The Sciences which depend upon the Ideas of Space
and Number are Pure Sciences, not Inductive Sciences:
they do not infer special Theories from Facts, but deduce
the conditions of all theory from Ideas. The Elementary
Pure Sciences, or Elementary Mathematics, are Geo­
metry, Theoretical Arithmetic and Algebra. (11. 1.)
XX.
The Ideas on which the Pure Sciences depend, are
those of Space and Number ; but Number is a modifica­
tion of the conception of Repetition, which belongs to
the Idea of Time. (n. 1.)
XXI.
The Idea qfSpace is not derived from ex
for experience of external objects /Presupposes bodies to
exist in Space. Space is a condition under which the
mind receives the impressions of sense, and therefore
the relations of space are necessarily and universally
true of all perceived objects. Space is a form of our
perceptions, and regulates them, whatever the matter of
them may be. (ii. 2.)
XXII.
Space is not a General Notion collected by abstrac­
tion from particular cases; for we do not speak of Spaces
in general, but of universal or absolute Spare. Absolute
Space is infinite. All special spaces are in absolute space,
and are parts of it. (i i . 3.)
APHORISMS. 4 4 7
XXIII.
Space is not a real object or thing, distinct from the
objects which exist in it; but it is a real condition of the
existence of external objects. (11. 3.)
XXIV.
We have an Intuition of objects in space; that is, we
contemplate objects as made up of spatial parts, and
apprehend their spatial relations by the same act by
which we apprehend the objects themselves, (n. 3.)
XXV.
Form or Figure is space limited by boundaries.
Space has necessarily three dimensions, length, breadth,
depth; and no others which cannot be resolved into
these, (ii. 3.)
XXVI.
The Idea of Space is exhibited for scientific purposes,
by the Definitions and Axioms of Geometry; such, for
instance, as these:—the Definition of a Right ,
and of a Circle;—the Definition of Parallel , and
the Axiom concerning them;— the Axiom that two
straight lines cannot inclose a space. These Definitions
are necessary, not arbitrary; and the Axioms are needed
as well as the Definitions, in order to express the neces­
sary conditions which the Idea of Space imposes, (ii. 4.)
XXVII.
The Definitions and Axioms of Elementary Geometry
' do not completely exhibit the Idea of Space. In pro­
ceeding to the Higher Geometry, we may introduce
other additional and independent Axioms; such as that
of Archimedes, that a curve line which joins two points
is less than any broken line joining the same points and
including the curve line. (ii. 4.)
4 4 8 APHORISMS
XXVIII.
The perception of a solid object by sight requires that
act of mind by which, from figure and shade, we infer
distance and position in space. The perception offigure
by sight requires that act of mind by which we give an
outline to each object. (11. 6.)
XXIX.
The perception of Form by touch is not an impression
on the passive sense, but requires an act of our muscular
frame by which we become aware of the position of our
own limbs. The perceptive faculty involved in this act
has been called the muscular sense, (n. 6.)
XXX.
The Idea of Time is not derived from experience,
for experience of changes presupposes occurrences to
take place in Time. Time is a condition under which
the mind receives the impressions of sense, and there­
fore the relations of time are necessarily and universally
true of all perceived occurrences. Time is aform of our
perceptions, and regulates them, whatever the of
them may be. (u. 7.)
XXXI.
Time is not a General Notion collected by abstraction
from particular cases. For we do not speak of particular
Times as examples of time in general, but as parts of a
single and infinite Time. (ii. 8.)
XXXII.
Time, like Space, is a form, not only of perception,
but of Intuition. We consider the whole of any time
as equal to the sum of the parts; and an occurrence
as coinciding with the portion of time which it occupies.
CONCERNING IDEAS. 449
XXXIII.
Time is analogous to Space of one dimension,: por­
tions of both have a beginning and an end, are long or
short. There is nothing in Time which is analogous to
Space of two, or of three, dimensions, and thus nothing
which corresponds to Figure, (n. 8.)
XXXIV.
The Repetition of a set of occurrences, as, for ex­
ample, strong and weak, or long and short sounds,
according to a steadfast order, produces Rhythm, which
is a conception peculiar to Time, as Figure is to Space,
(ii. 8.)
XXXV.
The simplest form of Repetition is that in which
there is no variety, and thus gives rise to the conception
ofNumber, (n. 8.)
XXXVI.
The simplest numerical truths are seen by Intuition;
when we endeavour to deduce the more complex from
these simplest, we employ such maxims as these:— I f
equals be added to equals the wholes are equal:— I f
equals be subtracted from equals the remainders are
equal:— The whole is equal to the sum of all its parts.
(n. 9.)
XXXVII.
The Perception of Time involves a constant and
latent kind of memory, which may be termed a Sense of
Succession. The Perception of Number also involves
this Sense of Succession, although in small numbers we
appear to apprehend the units simultaneously and not
successively, (n. 10.)
VOL. II. w . p. Go
450 APHORISMS
XXXVIII.
The Perception of Rhythm is not an impression on
the passive sense, but requires an of thought bv
which we connect and group the strokes which form the
Rhythm, (n. 10.)
XXXIX.
Intuitive is opposed to Discursive reason. In in­
tuition, we obtain our conclusions by dwelling upon one
aspect of the fundamental Idea; in discursive reasoning,
we combine several aspects of the Idea, (that is, several
axioms.) and reason from the combination, (n. 11.)
XL.
Geometrical deduction (and deduction in general) is
called S
y
n
t
h
e
s
i
s
, because we introduce, at successive
steps, the results of new principles. But in reasoning
on the relations of space, we sometimes go on
truths into their component truths, and these into other
component truths; and so on; and this is geometrical
Analysis, (ii. 11.)
XLI.
Among the foundations of the Higher Mathematics,
is the Idea of Symbols considered as general Signs of
Quantity. This idea of a Sign is distinct from, and inde­
pendent of other ideas. The Axiom to which we referin
reasoning by means of Symbols of quantity is this:—The
interpretationof such symbols must be perfectly general.
This Idea and Axiom are the bases of Algebra in its
most general form. (i i . 12 .)
XLII.
Among the foundations of the Higher Mathematics
is also the Idea of a Limit. The Idea of a Limit cannot
be superseded by any other definitions or Hypotheses.
CONCERNING IDEAS. 4 51
The Axiom which we employ in introducing this Idea
into our reasoning is this:— What is true up to the Limit
is true at the Limit. This Idea and Axiom are the bases
of all Methods of Limits, Fluxions, Differentials, Varia­
tions, and the like. (n. 12.)
XLIII.
There is a pure Science of Motion, which does not
depend upon observed facts, but upon the Idea of motion.
It may also be termed Pure Mechanism, in opposition
to Mechanics Proper, or Machinei'y, which involves the
mechanical conceptions of force and matter. It has been
proposed to name this Pure Science of Motion, Kinema­
tics. (n. 13.)
XLIV.
The pure Mathematical Sciences must be successfully
cultivated, in order that the progress of the principal
Inductive Sciences may take place. This appears in the
case of Astronomy, in which Science, both in ancient
and in modern times, each advance of the theory has
depended upon the previous solution of problems in
pure mathematics. It appears also inversely in the
Science of the Tides, in which, at present, we cannot
advance in the theory, because we cannot solve the
requisite problems in the Integral Calculus, (ii. 14.)
XLV.
The Idea of Cause, modified into the conceptions of
mechanical cause, or Force, and resistance to force, or
Matter, is the foundation of the Mechanical Sciences;
that is, Mechanics, (including Statics and Dynamics,)
Hydrostatics, and Physical Astronomy, (in. 1.)
XLVI.
The Idea of Cause is not derived from experience;
for in judging of occurrences which we contemplate, we
G G 2
4 5 2 APHOBISMS
consider them as being, universally and necessarily,
Causes and Effects, which a finite experience could not
authorize us to do. The Axiom, that every event must
have a cause, is true independently of experience, and
beyond the limits of experience, (m. 2.)
XLVII.
The Idea of Cause is expressed for purposes of science
by these three Axioms:—Every Event must have a
Cause:
— Causes are measured by their Effects:—Re­
action is equal and opposite to Action, (h i . 4.)
XLVIII.
The Conception of Force involves the Idea of Cause,
as applied to the motion and rest of bodies. The con­
ception offorce is suggested by muscular action exerted:
the conception of matter arises from muscular action
resisted. We necessarily ascribe to all bodies solidity
and inertia, since we conceive Matter as that which can­
not be compressed or moved without resistance (in. 5.)
XLIX.
Mechanical Science depends on the Conception of
Force; and is divided into Statics, the doctrine of Force
preventing motion, and Dynamics, the doctrine of Force
producing motion, (iii. 6.)
L.
The Science of Statics depends upon the Axiom, that
Action and Reaction are equal, which in Statics assumes
this form:— When two equal weights are supported on
the middle point between them, the pressure on the ful­
crum is equal to the sum of the weights, (in. 6.)
LI.
The Science of Hydrostatics depends upon the Fun­
damental Principle that fluids press equally in
CONCERNING IDEAS. 453
rections. This principle necessarily results from the con­
ception of a Fluid, as a body of which the parts are
perfectly moveable in all directions. For since the Fluid
is a body, it can transmit pressure; and the transmitted
pressure is equal to the original pressure, in virtue of the
Axiom that Reaction is equal to Action. That the Fun­
damental Principle is not derived from experience, is
plain both from its evidence and from its history, (ill. 6.)
L n .
The Science of Dynamics depends upon the three
Axioms above stated respecting Cause. The First Axiom,
—that every change must have a Cause,—gives rise to
the First Law of Motion,—that a not acted upon
by a force will move with a uniform velocity in a
straight line. The Second Axiom,—that Causes are
measured by their Effects,—gives rise to the Second Law
of Motion,—that when a force acts upon a body in
motion, the effect of the force is compounded with the
previously existing motion. The Third Axiom,—that
Reaction is equal and opposite to Action,—gives rise to
the Third Law of Motion, which is expressed in the
same terms as the Axiom; Action and Reaction being
understood to signify momentum gained and lost (hi. 7).
Lin.
The above Laws ofMotion, historically speaking, were
established by means of experiment: but since they have
been discovered and reduced to their simplest form, they
have been considered by many philosophers as self­
evident. This result is principally due to the introduc­
tion and establishment of terms and definitions, which
enable us to express the Laws in a very simple manner.
(iii. 7.)
4 5 4 APHORISMS
LIV.
In the establishment of the Laws of Motion, it hap­
pened, in several instances, that Principles were assumed
as self-evident which do not now appear evident, but
which have since been demonstrated from the simplest
and most evident principles. Thus it was assumed that
a perpetual motion is impossible;—that the velocities of
bodies acquired by falling dorm planes or curves of the
same vertical height are equal;—that the actual descent
of the center of gra vity is equal to its potential ascent.
But we are not hence to suppose that these assumptions
were made without ground: for since they really follow
from the laws of motion, they were probably, in the
minds of the discoverers, the results of undeveloped
demonstrations which their sagacity led them to divine.
It is a Paradox that Experience should lead us to
truths confessedly universal, and apparently necessary,
such as the Laws of Motion are. The Solution of this
paradox is, that these laws are interpretations of the
Axioms of Causation. The axioms are universally and
necessarily true, but the right interpretation of the
terms which they involve, is learnt by experience. Our
Idea of Cause supplies the , Experience, the
Matter’, of these Laws. (hi. 8.)
Primary Qualities of Bodies are those which we can
conceive as directly perceived; Secondary Qualities are
those which we conceive as perceived by means of a
Medium, (iv. 1.)
(in . 7.)
LV.
LVI.
CONCERNING IDEAS. 4 5 5
LVII.
We necessarily perceive bodies as without us: the
Idea of Externality is one of the conditions of percep­
tion. (iv. 1.)
LVIII.
We necessarily assume a Medium for the perceptions
of Light, Colour, Sound, Heat, Odours, Tastes; and this
Medium must convey impressions by means of its me­
chanical attributes, (iv. 1.)
LIX.
Secondary Qualities are not extended but intensive;
their effects are not augmented by addition of parts, but
by increased operation of the medium. Hence they are
not measured directly, but by scales; not by units, but
by degrees, (iv. 4.)
LX.
In the Scales of Secondary Qualities, it is a condition
(in order that the scale may be complete,) that every
example of the quality must either agree with one of
the degrees of the Scale, or lie between two contiguous
degrees, (iv. 4.)
LXI.
We perceive by means of a medium and by means of
impressions on the nerves: but we do not (by our
senses,) perceive either the medium or the impressions
on the nerves, (iv. 1.)
LXII.
The Prerogatives of the Sight are, that by this sense
we necessarily and immediately apprehend the position
of its objects : and that from visible circumstances, we
infer the distance of objects from us, so readily that we
seem to perceive and not to infer, (iv. 2.)
456 APHORISMS
Lxni.
The Prerogatives qf the Hearing are, that by this
sense we perceive relations perfectly precise and definite
between two notes, namely, Musical Intervals (as an
Octave, a Fifth); and that when two notes are perceived
together, they are apprehended as distinct, (a Chord,)
and as having a certain relation, (Concord or
(iv. 2.)
LXIV.
The Sight cannot decompose a compound colour into
simple colours, or distinguish a compound from a simple
colour. The Hearing cannot directly perceive the place,
still less the distance, of its objects. We infer these
obscurely and vaguely from audible circumstances.
(iv. 2.)
LXV.
The First Paradox of Vision is, that we see objects
upright, though the images on the retina are inverted.
The solution is, that we do not see the image on the
retina at all, we only see by means of it. (iv. 2.)
LXVI.
The Second Paradox of Vision is, that we see objects
single, though there are two images on the retinas, one
in each eye. The explanation is, that it is a Law of
Vision that we see (small or distant) objects single, when
their images fall on corresponding points of the two
retinas, (rv. 2.)
LXVII.
The law of single vision for near objects is this:—
When the two images in the two eyes are situated,
part for part, nearly but not exactly, upon corresponding
CONCERNING IDEAS. 457
points, the object is apprehended as single and solid if
the two objects are such as would be produced by a
single solid object seen by the eyes separately, (iv. 2.)
LXVIII.
The ultimate object of each of the Secondary Mecha­
nical Sciences is, to determine the nature and laws of
the processes by which the impression of the Secondary
Quality treated of is conveyed : but before we discover
the c
a
u
s
e
, it may be necessary to determine the laws of
the phenomena; and for this purpose a Measure or
Scale of each quality is necessary, (iv. 4.)
LXIX.
Secondary qualities are measured by means of such
effects as can be estimated in number or space, (iv. 4.)
LXX.
The Measure of Sounds, as high or low, is the Musi­
cal Scale, or Harmonic Canon, (iv. 4.)
LXXI.
The Measures of Pure Colours are the Prismatic
Scale; the same, including Fraunhofer's ; and
Newton's Scale of Colours. The principal Scales of
Impure Colours are Werner's Nomenclature of Colours,
and Merimêe's Nomenclature of Colours, (iv. 4.)
LXXII.
The Idea of Polarity involves the conception of
contrary properties in contrary directions :—the proper­
ties being, for example, attraction and repulsion, dark­
ness and light, synthesis and analysis ; and the contrary
directions being those which are directly opposite, or,
in some cases, those which are at right angles, (v. 1.)
4 5 8 APHORISMS
LXXIII. (Doubtful.)
Coexistent polarities are fundamentally identical,
(v. 2.) *
LXXIV.
The Idea of Chemical Affinity, as implied in Ele­
mentary Composition, involves peculiar conceptions. It
is not properly expressed by assuming the qualities of
bodies to resemble those of the elements, or to depend
on the figure of the elements, or on their attractions.
(vi. 1.) ‘
LXXV.
Attractions take place between bodies, Affinities be­
tween the particles of a body. The former may be com­
pared to the alliances of states, the latter to the ties of
family, (vi. 2.)
LXXVI.
The governing principles of Chemical Affinity are,
that it is elective; that it is definite; that it determines
the properties of the compound; and that analysis is
possible, (vi. 2.)
lx xv h .
We have an idea of Substance: and an axiom in­
volved in this Idea is, that the of a body is the
sum of the weights of all its elements, (vi. 3).
LXXVIII.
Hence Imponderable Fluids are not to be admitted
as chemical elements, (vi. 4.)
LXXIX.
The Doctrine of Atoms is admissible as a mode of
expressing and calculating laws of nature; but is not
proved by any fact, chemical or physical, as a philoso­
phical truth, (vi. 5.)
CONCERNING IDEAS. 4 5 9
LXXX.
We have an Idea of S
y
m
m
ea
nd an axiom in
volved in this Idea is, that a symmetrical natural body,
if there be a tendency to modify any member in any
manner, there is a tendency to modify all the corre­
sponding members in the same manner, (vn. 1.)
LXXXI.
All hypotheses respecting the manner in which the
elements of inorganic bodies are arranged in space, must
be constructed with regard to the general facts of cry­
stallization. (vii. 3.)
LXXXII.
When we consider any object as we give unity
to it by an act of thought. The condition which deter­
mines what this unity shall include, and what it shall
exclude, is this;—that assertions concerning the one thing
shall be possible, (vm. 1.)
LXXXIII.
We collect individuals into Kinds by applying to them
the Idea of Likeness. Kinds of things are not deter­
mined by definitions, but by this condition;—that gene­
ral assertions concerning such kinds of things shall be
possible, (vm. 1.)
LXXXIV.
The Names of kinds of things are governed by their
use; and that may be a right name in one use which is
not so in another. A whale is not a fish in natural his­
tory, but it is afish in commerce and law. (vm. 1.)
LXXXV.
We take for granted that each kind of things has a
special character which may be expressed by a Defini-
4 6 0 APHORISMS
tion. The ground of our assumption is this;—that rea­
soning must be possible, (vm. 1.)
LXXXVI.
The “ Five Words,” Genus, Species, Difference, Pro­
perty, Accident, were used by the Aristotelians, in order
to express the subordination of kinds, and to describe
the nature of definitions and propositions. In modern
times, these technical expressions have been more re­
ferred to by Natural Historians than by Metaphysicians,
(vm. 1.)
LXXXVII.
The construction of a Classificatory Science includes
Terminology, the formation of a descriptive language;
—Diataxis, the Plan of the System of Classification,
called also the Systematick;—Diagnosis, the Scheme of
the Characters by which the different Classes are known,
called also the Characteristick. Physiography is the
knowledge which the System is employed to convey.
Diataxis includes Nomenclature, (vm. 2.)
LXXXVIII.
Terminology must be conventional, precise, constant;
copious in words, and minute in distinctions, according
to the needs of the science. The student must under­
stand the terms, directly according to the convention,
not through the medium of explanation or comparison,
(vm. 2.)
LXXXIX.
The Diataxis, or Plan of the System, may aim at a
Natural or an Artificial System. But no classes can be
absolutely artificial, for if they were, no assertions could
be made concerning them. (v i i i . 2.)
CONCERNING IDEAS. 461
xc.
An Artificial System is one in which the smaller
groups (the Genera) are natural; and in which the
wider divisions (Classes, Orders) are constructed by the
peremptoi'y application of selected Characters; (selected,
however, so as not to break up the smaller groups.)
(v iii. 2.)
XCI.
A Natural System is one which attempts to make all
the divisions natural, the widest as well as the narrow­
est; and therefore applies no characters peremptorily.
(vm. 2.)
XCII.
Natural Groups are best described, not by any defini­
tion which marks their boundaries, but by a Type which
marks their center. The Type of any natural group is
an example which possesses in a marked degree all the
leading characters of the class, (vm. 2.)
XCIII.
A Natural Group is steadily fixed, though not pre­
cisely limited; it is given in position, though not circum­
scribed; it is determined, not by a boundary without,
but by a central point within;—not by what it strictly
excludes, but by what it eminently includes;—by a Type,
not by a Definition, (vm. 2.)
XCIV.
The prevalence of Mathematics as an element of edu­
cation has made us think Definition the philosophical
mode of fixing the meaning of a word: if (Scientific)
Natural History were introduced into education, men
might become familiar with the fixation of the signifi-
4 6 2 APHORISMS
cation of words by Types; and this process agrees
more nearly with the common processes by which words
acquire their significations, (vm . 2.)
xcv.
The attempts at Natural Classification are of three
sorts; according as they are made by the process of blind
trial, of general comparison, or of subordination of cha­
racters. The process of Blind Trial professes to make
its classes by attention to all the characters, but without
proceeding methodically. The process of General Com­
parison professes to enumerate all the characters, and
forms its classes by the majority. Neither of these
methods can really be carried into effect. The method
of Subordination of Characters considers some characters
as more important than others; and this method gives
more consistent results than the others. This method,
however, does not depend upon the Idea of Likeness
only, but introduces the Idea of Organization or Func­
tion. (vm. 2.)
XCVI.
A Species is a collection of individuals which are
descended from a common stock, or which resemble such
a collection as much as these resemble each other: the
resemblance being opposed to a</c/?w?'tedifference. (vm.2.)
XCVII.
A Genus is a collection of species which resemble
each other more than they resemble other species: the
resemblance being opposed to a difference, (vm.2.)
XCVIII.
The Nomenclature of a Classificatory Science is the
collection of the names of the Species, Genera, and other
divisions. The binary nomenclature, which denotes a
species by the generic and specific name, is now com­
monly adopted in Natural History, (vm. 2.)
CONCERNING IDEAS. 463
XCIX.
The Diagnosis, or Scheme of the Characters, comes,
in the order of philosophy, after the Classification. The
characters do not make the classes, they only enable us
to recognize them. The Diagnosis is an Artificial Key
to a Natural System, (vm. 2.)
C.
The basis of all Natural Svstems of Classification is
*
the Idea of Natural Affinity. The Principle which this
Idea involves is this:—Natural arrangements, obtained
from different sets of characters, must coincide with
each other, (vm. 4.)
Cl.
In order to obtain a Science of Biology, we must
analyze the Idea of Life. It has been proved by the
biological speculations of past time, that Organic Life
cannot rightly be solved into Mechanical or Chemical
Forces, or the operation of a Vital Fluid, or of a Soul,
(ix. 2.)
CII.
Life is a System of Vital Forces; and the conception
of such Forces involves a peculiar Fundamental Idea,
(ix. 3.)
era.
Mechanical, chemical, and vital Forces form an
ascending progression, each including the preceding.
Chemical Affinity includes in its nature Mechanical
Force, and may often be practically resolved into Mecha­
nical Force. (Thus the ingredients of gunpowder, libe­
rated from their chemical union, exert great mechanical
Force: a galvanic battery acting by chemical process
does the like.) Vital Forces include in their nature
both chemical Affinities and mechanical Forces: for
464 APHORISMS
Vital Powers produce both chemical changes, (as diges­
tion,) and motions which imply considerable mechanical
force, (as the motion of the sap and of the blood, (ix. 4.)
CIV.
In voluntary motions, Sensations produce Actions,
and the connexion is made by means of Ideas: in reflected
motions, the connexion neither seems to be nor is made
by means of Ideas: in instinctive motions, the connexion
is such as requires Ideas, but we cannot believe the
Ideas to exist, (ix. 5.)
CV.
The assumption of a Final Cause in the structure of
each part of animals and plants is as inevitable as the
assumption of an Efficient Cause for every event. The
maxim that in organized bodies nothing is in , is
as necessarily true as the maxim that nothing happens
by chance, (ix. 6.)
CVI.
The idea of living beings as subject to disease includes
a recognition of a Final Cause in organization; for
disease is a state in which the vital forces do not attain
their proper ends. (ix. 6.)
CVII.
The Palaetiological Sciences depend upon the Idea of
Cause; but the leading conception which they involve
is that of historical cause, not mechanical cause, (x. 1.)
CVIII.
Each Palsetiological Science, when complete, must
possess three members: the Phenomenology, the ^Etio­
logy, and the Theory, (x. 2.)
\
CONCERNING IDEAS. 465
CIX.
There are, in the Palsetiological Sciences, two anta­
gonist doctrines: Catastrophes and Uniformity. The
doctrine of a uniform course of nature is tenable only
when we extend the notion of Uniformity so far that it
shall include Catastrophes, (x. 3.)
CX.
The Catastrophist constructs Theories, the Uniformi-
tarian demolishes them. The former adduces evidence
of an Origin, the latter explains the evidence away.
The Catastrophist’s dogmatism is undermined by the
Uniformitarian’s skeptical hypotheses. But when these
hypotheses are asserted dogmatically, they cease to be
consistent with the doctrine of Uniformity, (x. 3.)
CXI.
In each of the Palsetiological Sciences, we can ascend
to remote periods by a chain of causes, but in none can
we ascend to a beginning of the chain, (x. 3.)
CXII.
In contemplating the series of causes and effects
which constitutes the world, we necessarily assume a
First Cause of the whole series, (x. 5.)
CXIII.
The Palsetiological Sciences point backwards with
lines which are broken, but which all converge to the
same invisible point: and this point is the Origin of the
Moral and Spiritual, as well as of the Natural World,
(x. 5.)
V O L . I I . W . P . H h
400*
APHORISMS CONCERNING SCIENCE.
I.
Thk two processes by which Science is constructed
are the Explication of Conceptions and the Colligation
of Facts. (Book xi. Chap. 1.)
II.
The Explication of Conceptions, as requisite for the
progress of science, has been effected by means of dis­
cussions and controversies among scientists ; often by
debates concerning definitions ; these controversies have
frequently led to the establishment of a Definition ; but
along with the Definition, a corresponding Proposition
has always been expressed or implied. The essential
requisite for the advance of science is the clearness of
the Conception, not the establishment of a Definition.
The construction of an exact Definition is often very
difficult. The requisite conditions of clear Conceptions
may often be expressed by Axioms as well as by Defini­
tions. (xi. 2.)
III.
Conceptions, for purposes of science, must be appro­
priate as well as clear: that is, they must be modifi­
cations of that Fundamental Idea, by which the pheno­
mena can really be interpreted. This maxim may warn
us from errour, though it may not lead to discovery.
Discovery depends upon the previous cultivation or
natural clearness of the appropriate Idea, and therefore
no discovery is the work of accident, (xi. 2.)
APHORISMS CONCERNING SCIENCE. 4 6 7
IV.
Facts are the materials of science, but all Facts
involve Ideas. Since, in observing Facts, we cannot
exclude Ideas, we must, for the purposes of science, take
care that the Ideas are clear and rigorously applied,
(xi. 3.)
V.
The last Aphorism leads to such Rules as the follow­
ing :—That Facts, for the purposes of material science,
must involve Conceptions of the Intellect only, and not
Emotions:—That Facts must be observed with reference
to our most exact conceptions, Number, Place, Figure,
Motion:—That they must also be observed with refer­
ence to any other exact conceptions which the pheno­
mena suggest, as Force, in mechanical phenomena, Con­
cord, in musical, (xi. 3.)
VI.
The resolution of complex Facts into precise and
measured partial Facts, we call the Decomposition of
Facts. This process is requisite for the progress of sci­
ence, but does not necessarily lead to progress, (xi. 3.)
VII. .
Science begins with common observation of facts;
but even at this stage, requires that the observations be
precise. Hence the sciences which depend upon space
and number were the earliest formed. After common
observation, come Scientific Observation and Eocperi-
ment. (xi. 4.)
VIII.
The Conceptions by which Facts are bound together,
are suggested by the sagacity of discoverers. This saga­
city cannot be taught. It commonly succeeds by guess-
HH 2
468 APHORISMS
ing; and this success seems to consist in framing several
tentative hypotheses and selecting the right one. But a
supply of appropriate hypotheses cannot be constructed
by rule, nor without inventive talent. (XI. 4.)
IX.
The truth of tentative hypotheses must be tested by
their application to facts. The discoverer must be ready,
carefully to try his hypotheses in this manner, and to
reject them if they will not bear the test, in spite of indo­
lence and vanity. (XL 4.)
X.
The process of scientific discovery is cautious and
rigorous, not by abstaining from hypotheses, but by
rigorously comparing hypotheses with facts, and by reso­
lutely rejecting all which the comparison does not con­
firm. (xi. 5.)
XI.
Hypotheses may be useful, though involving much
that is superfluous, and even erroneous: for they may
supply the true bond of connexion of the facts; and the
superfluity and errour may afterwards be pared away.
(XL 5.)
XII.
It is a test of true theories not only to account for,
but to predict phenomena, (xi. 5.)
XIII.
Induction is a term applied to describe the process
of a true Colligation of Facts by means of an exact and
appropriate Conception. An Induction is also employed
to denote the proposition which results from this pro­
cess. (xi. 5.)
CONCERNING SCIENCE. 469
XIV.
The Consilience of Inductions takes place when an
Induction, obtained from one class of facts, coincides
with an Induction, obtained from another different class.
This Consilience is a test of the truth of the Theory in
which it occurs, (xi. 5.)
XV.
An Induction is not the mere sum of the Facts which
are colligated. The Facts are not only brought together,
but seen in a new point of view. A new mental Ele­
ment is supei'induced; and a peculiar constitution and
discipline of mind are requisite in order to make this
Induction, (xi. 5.)
XVI.
Although in Every Induction a new conception is
superinduced upon the Facts; yet this once effectually
done, the novelty of the conception is overlooked, and
the conception is considered as a part of the fact. (xi. 5.)
XVII.
The Logic of Induction consists in stating the Facts
and the Inference in such a manner, that the Evidence
of the Inference is manifest; just as the Logic of Deduc­
tion consists in stating the Premises and the Conclusion
in such a manner that the Evidence of the Conclusion is
manifest, (xi. 6.)
XVIII.
The Logic of Deduction is exhibited by means of a
certain Formula; namely, a Syllogism; and every train
of deductive reasoning, to be demonstrative, must be
capable of resolution into a series of such Formulae legiti­
mately constructed. In like manner, the Logic of Induc­
tion may be exhibited by means of certain Formulae;
4 7 0 APHORISMS
and every train of inductive inference, to be sound, must
be capable of resolution into a scheme of such Formulae,
legitimately constructed, (xi. 6.)
XIX.
The inductive act ofthought by w
are colligated into one Proposition, may be expressed by
saying: The sevei'alFacts are exactly express
Fact, f , and only if, we adopt the Conceptions and the
Assertion of the Proposition, (xi. 6.)
XX.
The One Fact, thus inductively obtained from several
Facts, may be combined with other Facts, and colligated
with them by a new act of Induction. This process may
be indefinitely repeated: and these successive processes
are the Steps of Induction, or of Generalization, from
the lowest to the highest, (xi. 6.)
XXI.
The relation of the successive Steps of Induction may
be exhibited by means of an Inductive Table, in which
the several Facts are indicated, and tied together by a
Bracket, and the Inductive Inference placed on the other
side of the Bracket; and this arrangement repeated, so
as to form a genealogical Table of each Induction, from
the lowest to the highest, (xi. 6.)
XXII.
The Logic of Induction is the Criterion of Truth
inferred from Facts, as the Logic of Deduction is the
Criterion of Truth deduced from necessary Principles.
The Inductive Table enables us to apply such a Crite­
rion ; for we can determine whether each Induction is
verified and justified by the Facts which its Bracket
CONCERNING SCIENCE. 471
includes; and if each induction in particular be sound,
the highest, which merely combines them all, must neces­
sarily be sound also. (xi. 6.)
XXIII.
The distinction of Factand Theory is onl
Events and phenomena, considered as particulars which
may be colligated by Induction, are Facts; considered
as generalities already obtained by colligation of other
Facts, they are Theories. The same event or phenome­
non is a Fact or a Theory, according as it is considered
as standing on one side or the other of the Inductive
Bracket, (xi. 6.)
XXIV.
Inductive truths are of two kinds, Laws of Pheno­
mena, and Theories of Causes. It is necessary to begin
in every science with the Laws of Phenomena; but'it is
impossible that we should be satisfied to stop short of a
Theory of Causes. In Physical Astronomy, Physical
Optics, Geology, and other sciences, we have instances
showing that we can make a great advance in inquiries
after true Theories of Causes, (xi. 7.)
XXV.
Art and Science differ. The object of Science is
Knowledge; the objects of Art, are Works. In Art,
truth is a means to an end; in Science, it is the only
end. Hence the Practical Arts are not to be classed
among the Sciences, (xi. 8.)
XXVI.
Practical Knowledge, such as Art implies, is not
Knowledge such as Science includes. Brute animals
have a practical knowledge of relations of space and
force; but they have no knowledge of Geometry or
Mechanics, (xi. 8.)
4 7 2 APHORISMS
XXVII.
The Methods by which the constructions of Science
is promoted are, Methods of Observation, Methods
obtaining clear Ideas, and Methods ofInduction, ( x i i . 1 .)
XXVIII.
The Methods of Observation of Quantity in general
are, Numeration, which is precise by the nature of Num­
ber ; the Measurement of Space and of Time, which are
easily made precise; the Conversion of Space and Time,
by which each aids the measurement of the other; the
Method of R e p e t i t i o n ;the Method o
Interferences. The measurement of Weight is made
precise by the Method of Double-weighing. Secondary
Qualities are measured by means of Scales qf Degrees;
but in order to apply these Scales, the student requires
the Education of the Senses. The Education of the
Senses is forwarded by the practical study of Descriptive
Natural History, Chemical Manipulation, and Astrono­
mical Observation, (x i i . 2.)
XXIX.
The Methods by which the acquisition of clear Scien­
tific Ideas is promoted, are mainly tw o; Intellectual
Education and Discussion of Ideas, (xii. 3.)
XXX.
The Idea of Space becomes more clear by studying
Geometry; the Idea of Force, by studying Mechanics;
the Ideas of Likeness, of Kind, of Subordination of
Classes, by studying Natural History, (x i i . 3.)
XXXI.
Elementally Mechanics should now form a part of
intellectual education, in order that the student may
CONCERNING SCIENCE. 4 7 3
understand the Theory of Universal Gravitation: for an
intellectual education should cultivate such ideas as
enable the student to understand the most complete and
admirable portions of the knowledge which the human
race has attained to. (x i i . 3.)
XXXII.
Natural History ought to form a part of intellectual
education, in order to correct certain prejudices which
arise from cultivating the intellect by means of mathe­
matics alone; and in order to lead the student to see
that the division of things into Kinds, and the attribu­
tion and use of Names, are processes susceptible of great
precision, (x i i . 3.)
XXXIII.
The conceptions involved in scientific truths have
attained the requisite degree of clearness by means of
the Discussions respecting ideas which have taken place
among discoverers and their followers. Such discus­
sions are very far from being unprofitable to science.
They are metaphysical, and must be so: the difference
between discoverers and barren reasoners is, that the
former employ good, and the latter bad metaphysics.
(x i i . 4.)
XXXIV.
The Process of Induction may be resolved into three
steps; the Selection qfthe Idea, the Construct
Conception, and the Determination of the Magnitudes.
(x i i . 5.)
XXXV.
These three steps correspond to the determination of
the Independent Variable, the Formula, and the Coeffi­
cients, in mathematical investigations; or to the Argu-
4 7 4 APHORISMS
merit, the Law, and the Numerical Data, in a Table of
an Inequality, (x i i . 5.)
XXXVI.
The Selection of the Idea depends mainly upon in­
ventive sagacity: which operates by suggesting and
trying various hypotheses. Some inquirers try erroneous
hypotheses; and thus, exhausting the forms of errour,
form the Prelude to Discovery, (x i i . 5.)
XXXVII.
The following Rules may be given, in order to the
selection of the Idea for purposes of Induction :— the
Idea and the Facts must be homogeneous; and the Rule
must be tested by the Facts, (x i i . 5.)
XXXVIII.
The Construction of the Conception very often in­
cludes, in a great measure, the Determination of the
Magnitudes, (x i i . 6.)
XXXIX.
When a series of progressive numbers is given as the
result of observation, it may generally be reduced to law
by combinations of arithmetical and geometrical pro­
gressions. (x i i . 6.)
XL.
A true formula for a progressive series of numbers
cannot commonly be obtained from a narrow range of
observations, (x i i . 6.)
XLI.
Recurrent se rie s o f n u m b e rs m u st, in m o s t cases, be
e x p re sse d b y c irc u la r form ulae, (x i i . 6.)
XLII.
The true construction of the conception is frequently
suggested by some hypothesis; and in these cases, the
Digitized by Google
CONCERNING SCIENCE. 475
hypothesis may be useful, though containing superfluous
parts, (xn. 6.)
XLIII.
There are special Methods of Induction applicable to
Quantity; of which the principal are, the Method of
Curves, the Method of M
e
a
n
s
, the Method o
Squares, and the Method of Residues, (x i i . 7.)
XLIV.
The Method of Curves consists in drawing a curve,
of which the observed quantities are the ordinates, the
quantity on which the change of these quantities depends
being the abscissa. The efficacy of this Method depends
upon the faculty which the eye possesses, of readily
detecting regularity and irregularity in forms. The
Method may be used to detect the laws which the ob­
served quantities follow; and also, when the observa­
tions are inexact, it may be used to correct these ob­
servations, so as to obtain data more true than the
observed facts themselves, (x i i . 7.)
XLV.
The Method of Means gets rid of irregularities by
taking the arithmetical mean of a great number of
observed quantities. Its efficacy depends upon this;
that in cases in which observed quantities are affected
by other inequalities, besides that of which we wish to
determine the law, the excesses above and defects below
the quantities which the law in question would produce,
will, in a collection of many observations, balance each
other, (x i i . 7.)
XLVI.
The Method of Least Squares is a Method of Means,
in which the mean is taken according to the condition,
that the sum of the squares of the errours of observa-
4 7 6 APHORISMS
tion shall be the least possible which the law of the facts
allows. It appears, by the doctrine of chances, that this
is the mostprobable mean. (xn. 7.)
The Method of Residues consists in subtracting,
from the quantities given by observation, the quantity
given by any law already discovered; and then ex­
amining the remainder, or Residue, in order to discover
the leading law which it follows. When this second
law has been discovered, the quantity given by it may
be subtracted from the first Residue; thus giving a
Second Residue, which may be examined in the same
manner; and so on. The efficacy of this Method depends
principally upon the circumstance of the laws of varia­
tion being successively smaller and smaller in amount
(or at least in their mean effect); so that the ulterior
undiscovered laws do not prevent the law in question
from being prominent in the observations, (x i i . 7.)
The Method of Means and the Method of Least
Squares cannot be applied without our the
Arguments of the Inequalities which we seek. The
Method of Curves and the Method of Residues, when
the Arguments of the principal Inequalities are known,
often make it easy to find the others, (xn. 7.)
The Lam of Continuity is this:—that a quantity
cannot pass from one amount to another by any change
of conditions, without passing through all intermediate
magnitudes according to the intermediate conditions.
This Law may often be employed to disprove distinctions
which have no real foundation, (xn. 8.)
XLVII.
XLVIII.
XLIX.
CONCERNING SCIENCE. 4 7 7
L.
The Method of Gradation consists in taking a num­
ber of stages of a property in question, intermediate
between two extreme cases which appear to be different.
This Method is employed to determine whether the
extreme cases are really distinct or not. (xn. 8.)
LI.
The Method of Gradation, applied to decide the
question, whether the existing geological phenomena
arise from existing causes, leads to this result:—That
the phenomena do appear to arise from existing causes,
but that the action of existing causes may, in past times,
have transgressed, to any extent, their recorded limits of
intensity, (x i i . 8.)
LII.
The Method of Natural Classification co n sists in
classin g cases, n o t a c c o rd in g to a n y a s su m e d d efin itio n ,
but a c c o rd in g to th e c o n n e x io n o f th e fa c ts th e m se lv e s,
so as to m a k e th e m th e m e a n s o f a s s e rtin g g e n e ra l
tru th s , (x i i . 8.)
LIII.
In the Induction of Causes the principal Maxim is,
that we must be careful to possess, and to apply, with
perfect clearness, the Fundamental Idea on which the
Induction depends, (x i i . 10.)
LIV.
The Induction of Substance, of Force, of Polarity, go
beyond mere laws of phenomena, and may be considered
as the Induction of Causes, (x i i . 10.)
LV.
The Cause of certain phenomena being inferred, we
are led to inquire into the Cause of this Cause, which
478 APHORISMS CONCERNING SCIENCE.
inquiry must be conducted in the same manner as the
previous one; aud thus we have the Induction of Ulterior
Causes, (x i i . 10.)
LVI.
In contemplating the series of Causes which are
themselves the effects of other causes, we are necessarily
led to assume a Supreme Cause in the Order of Causa­
tion, as we assume a First Cause in Order of Succession.
(x i i . 10.)
4 7 9
APHORISMS
CONCERNING THE LANGUAGE OF SCIENCE.
In t r o d u c t io n .
It has been shown in the History of Science, and has
further appeared in the course of the present work, that
almost every step in the progress of science is marked
by the formation or appropriation of a technical term.
Common language has, in most cases, a certain degree
of looseness and ambiguity; as common knowledge has
usually something of vagueness and indistinctness. In
common cases too, knowledge usually does not occupy
the intellect alone, but more or less interests some
affection, or puts in action the fancy; and common lan­
guage, accommodating itself to the office of expressing
such knowledge, contains, in every sentence, a tinge of
emotion or of imagination. But when our knowledge
becomes perfectly exact and purely intellectual, we re­
quire a language which shall also be exact and intel­
lectual;— which shall exclude alike vagueness and fancy,
imperfection and superfluity;—in which-each term shall
convey a meaning steadily fixed and rigorously limited.
Such a language that of science becomes, through the
use of Technical Terms. And we must now endeavour
to lay down some maxims and suggestions, by attention
to which Technical Terms may be better fitted to answer
their purpose. In order to do this, we shall in the first
place take a rapid survey of the manner in which Tech­
nical Terms have been employed from the earliest periods
of scientific history.
480 APHORISMS CONCERNING
The progress of the use of technical scientific lan­
guage offers to our notice two different and successive
periods; in the first of which, technical terms were
formed casually, as convenience in each case prompted;
while in the second period, technical language was con­
structed intentionally, with set purpose, with a regard to
its connexion, and with a view of constructing a system.
Though the casual and the systematic formation of tech­
nical terms cannot be separated by any precise date of
time, (for at all periods some terms in some sciences
have been framed unsystematically,) we may, as a general
description, call the former the Ancient and the latter
the Modem Period. In illustrating the two following
Aphorisms, I will give examples of the course followed
in each of these periods.
In the Ancient Period of Science, Technical Terms were
formed inthree different mays:—by approp
common rcords and fanny their meaning;— by con­
structing terms containing a — by
structing terms containing reference to a theory.
The earliest sciences offer the earliest examples of
technical terms. These are Geometry, Arithmetic, and
Astronomv; to which we have soon after to add Har­
monies, Mechanics, and Optics. In these sciences, we
may notice the above-mentioned three different modes
in which technical terms were formed.
I. The simplest and first mode of acquiring technical
terms, is to take words current in common usage, and
by rigorously defining or otherwise fixing their meaning,
to fit them for the expression of scientific truths. In
this manner almost all the fundamental technical terms
of Geometry were formed. A , a cone, a cylinder,
A p h o r ism I.
TIIE LANGUAGE OF SCIENCE. 4 8 1
had among the Greeks, at first, meanings less precise
than those which geometers gave to these words, and
besides the mere designation of form, implied some use
or application. A sphere ( <
r
<
pw
as a hand-ba
in games; a cone (km
vo?)was a boy’s spinning-top, or
crest of a helmet; a cylinder)' (KukivUpos) was a roller; a
cube (kv/Sos) was a die: till these words were adopted by
the geometers, and made to signify among them pure
modifications of space. So an angle was only a
corner; a point (a-tiufiov) was a signal; a line
was a mark; a straight line (evOeia) was marked by an
adjective which at first meant only direct. A plane
[ lir li r e lo v ) is the neuter form of an adjective, which by its
derivation means on the ground, and hence fiai. In all
these cases, the word adopted as a term of science has
its sense rigorously fixed; and where the common use
of the term is in any degree vague, its meaning may be
modified at the same time that it is thus limited. Thus
a rhombus (ponfios)by its derivation, might mean any
figure which is twisted out of a regular form; but it is
confined by geometers to that figure which has four equal
sides, its angles being oblique. In like manner, a tra­
pezium (rpane^tov) originally signifies a table, and thus
might denote any form; but as the tables of the Greeks
had one side shorter than the opposite one, such a figure
was at first called a trapezium. Afterwards the term
was made to signify any figure with four unequal sides;
a name being more needful in geometry for this kind of
figure than for the original form.
This class of technical terms, namely, words adopted
from common language, but rendered precise and deter­
minate for purposes of science, may also be exemplified
in other sciences. Thus, as was observed in the early
portion of the history of astronomy a day, a month,
* Hill. Ind- Sci., B. hi. c. i.
VOL. II. W. P. I l
482 APHORISMS CONCERNING
a y
e
a
r, described at first portions of time marked by
familiar changes, but afterwards portions determined by
rigorous mathematical definitions. The conception of
the heavens as a revolving sphere, is so obvious, that we
may consider the terms which involve this conception
as parts of common language; as the pole Acs); the
arctic circle, which includes the stars that never set*;
the horizon (opi£wt>)a boundary, applied tech
the circle bounding the visible earth and sky. The
turnings of the sun (rponal ijeAúxo), which are mentioned
by Hesiod, gave occasion to the term tropics, the circles
at which the sun in his annual motion turns back from
his northward or southward advance. The zones of the
earth, (the torrid, temperate, andfr ig id ;) the gnomon of
a dial; the limb (or border) of the moon, or of a circular
instrument, are terms of the same class. An eclipse
(?<
cAei\pis)is originally a deficiency or disappearance, and
joined with the name of the luminary, an eclipse of the
sun or of the moon, described the phenomenon; but
when the term became technical, it sufficed, without
addition, to designate the phenomenon.
In Mechanics, the Greeks gave a scientific precision
to very few words: we may mention weights (fiapia),
the arms of a lever (utiyea),itsfulcrum (
the verb to balance (iooppoireiw). Other terms which
they used, as momentum (pony) and force (¿¿vatm), did
not acquire a distinct and definite meaning till the time
of Galileo, or later. We may observe that all abstract
terms, though in their scientific application expressing
mere conceptions, were probably at first derived from
some word describing external objects. Thus the Latín
word for force, vis, seems to be connected with a Greek
word, «, or FIs, which often has nearly the same mean­
ing ; but originally, as it would seem, signified a sinew
or muscle, the obvious seat of animal strength.
# Hist. Ast,, B. in. c i. sect. 8.
THE LANGUAGE OF SCIENCE. 483
In later times, the limitation imposed upon a word
by its appropriation to scientific purposes, is often more
marked than in the cases above described. Thus the
variation is made to mean, in astronomy, the second
inequality of the moon’s motion; in magnetism, the
variation signifies the angular deviation of the compass-
needle from the north; in pure mathematics, the varia­
tion of a quantity is the formula which expresses the
result of any small change of -the most general kind.
In like manner, parallax (vapaWa^it) denotes a change
in general, but is used by astronomers to signify the
change produced by the spectator’s being removed from
the center of the earth, his theoretical place, to the sur­
face. Alkali at first denoted the ashes of a particular
plant, but afterwards, all bodies having a certain class
of chemical properties; and, in like manner, acid, the
class opposed to alkali, was modified in signification by
chemists, so as to refer no longer to the taste.
Words thus borrowed from common language, and
converted by scientific writers into technical terms, have
some advantages and some disadvantages. They possess
this great convenience, that they are understood after
a very short explanation, and retained in the memory
without effort. On the other hand, they lead to some
inconvenience; for since they have a meaning in common
language, a careless reader is prone to disregard the
technical limitation of this meaning, and to attempt to
collect their import in scientific books, in the same vague
and conjectural manner in which he collects the pur­
pose of words in common cases. Hence the language
of science, when thus resembling common language, is
liable to be employed with an absence of that scientific
precision which alone gives it value. Popular writers
and talkers, when they speak offorce, momentum, action
and reaction, and the like, often afford examples of the
I 12
4 8 4 APHORISMS CONCERNING
inaccuracy thus arising from the scientific appropriation
of common terms.
II. Another class of technical terms, which we find
occurring as soon as speculative science assumes a dis­
tinct shape, consists of those which are intentionally
constructed by speculators, and which contain some
description or indication distinctive of the conception
to which they are applied. Such are a parallelogram
(trapaXKnXo'ypanfiov),which denotesa plane figure bounded
by two pairs of parallel lines; a (rapaX-
\ti\oiriire$ov), which signifies a solid figure bounded by
three pairs of parallel planes. A triangle
trigon) and a quadrangle tetragon) were
perhaps words invented independently of the mathema­
ticians : but such words extended to other cases,
gon, decagon, hecccedecagon, polygon, are inventions of
scientific men. Such also are tetrahedron, hexahedron,
dodecahedron, tesseracontaoctohedron,, and
the like. These words being constructed by speculative
writers, explain themselves, or at least require only some
conventional limitation, easily adopted. Thus parallelo­
gram might mean a figure bounded by any number of
sets of parallel lines, but it is conventionally restricted
to a figure offour sides. So a great circle in a sphere
means one which passes through the center of the
sphere; and a small circle is any other. So in trigo­
nometry, we have the hypotenuse or sub­
tending line, to designate the line subtending an angle,
and especially a right angle. In this branch of mathe­
matics we have many invented technical terms; as com­
plement, supplement, cosine, cotangent, a spherical angle,
the pole of a circle, or of a sphere. The word sine
itself appears to belong to the class of terms already
described as scientific appropriations of common terms,
although its origin is somewhat obscure.
TIIE LANGUAGE OF SCIENCE. 4 8 5
Mathematicians were naturally led to construct these
and many other terms by the progress of their specula­
tions. In like manner, when astronomy took the form
of a speculative science, words were invented to denote
distinctly the conceptions thus introduced. Thus the
sun’s annual path among the stars, in which not only
solar, but also all lunar eclipses occur, was termed the
ecliptic. The circle which the sun describes in his diur­
nal motion, when the days and nights are equal, the
Greeks called the equidiurnal (larifiepivot,) the Latin
astronomers the equinoctial, and the corresponding cir­
cle on the earth was the equator. The ecliptic inter­
sected the equinoctial in the equinoctial points. The
solstices (in Greek, rpoirai)were the times when
arrested his motion northwards or southwards; and the
solstitial points (ra rponiKa atjueia) were the places in
the ecliptic where he then was. The name of meridians
was given to circles passing through the poles of the
equator; the solstitial colure curtailed), was
one of these circles, which passes through the solstitial
points, and is intercepted by the horizon.
We have borrowed from the Arabians various astro­
nomical terms, as Zenith, Nadir, Azimuth, Almacantar.
And these words, which among the Arabians probably
belonged to the first class, of appropriated scientific
terms, are for us examples of the second class, invented
scientific terms; although they differ from most that we
have mentioned, in not containing an etymology corre­
sponding to their meaning in any language with which
European cultivators of science are generally familiar.
Indeed, the distinction of our two classes, though con­
venient, is in a great measure, casual. Thus most of
the words we formerly mentioned, as parallax, horizon,
eclipse, though appropriated technical terms among the
Greeks, are to us invented technical terms.
480 APHORISMS CONCERNING
In the construction of such terms as we are now
considering, those languages have a great advantage
which possess a power of forming words by composition.
This was eminently the case with the Greek language;
and hence most of the ancient terms of science in that
language, when their origin is once explained, are clearly
understood and easily retained. Of modern European
languages, the German possesses the greatest facility of
composition; and hence scientific authors in that lan­
guage are able to invent terms which it is impossible to
imitate in the other languages of Europe. Thus Weiss
distinguishes his various systems of crystals as ztcei-
und-zwei-gliedrig, ein-und-zrcei-gliedrig, drey-und-drey-
gliedrig, <
%
c., (two-and-two-membered, one-and-two-
membered, three-and-three-membered.) And Hessel,
also a writer on crystallography, speaks of
membered edges,four-and-three spaced , and the like.
How far the composition of words, in such cases,
may be practised in the English language, and the gene­
ral question, what are the best rules and artifices in such
cases, I shall afterwards consider. In the mean time, I
may observe that this list of invented technical terms
might easily be much enlarged. Thus in harmonics
we have the various intervals, as a a Fifth, an
Octave, ( Diatessaron,
Diapente, Diapason,) a Comma
which is the difference of a Major and Minor Tone; we
have the various Moods or Keys, and the notes of vari­
ous lengths, as Minims, Breves, Semibreves, Quavers.
In chemistry, Gas was at first a technical term invented
by Van Helmont, though it has now been almost adopted
into common language. I omit many words which will
perhaps suggest themselves to the reader, because they
belong rather to the next class, which I now proceed to
notice.
III. The third class of technical terms consists of
THE LANGUAGE OF SCIENCE. 487
such as are constructed by men of science, and involve
some theoretical idea in the meaning which their deri­
vation implies. They do not merely describe, like the
class last spoken of but describe with reference to some
doctrine or hypothesis which is accepted as a portion of
science. Thus latitude and , according to their
origin, signify breadth and length; they are used, how­
ever, to denote measures of the distance of a place on
the earth’s surface from the equator, and from the first
meridian, of which distances, one cannot be called length
more properly than the other. But this appropriation
of these words may be explained by recollecting that
the earth, as known to the ancient geographers, was
much further extended from east to west than from
north to south. The Precession of the equinoxes is a
term which implies that the stars are fixed, while the
point which is the origin of the measure of celestial longi­
tude moves backward. The Right Ascension of a star is
a measure of its position corresponding to terrestrial lon­
gitude ; this quantity is identical with the angular ascent
o f the equinoctial point, when the star is in the horizon in
a right sphere; that is, a sphere which supposes the spec­
tator to be at the equator. The Oblique Ascension (a
term now little used), is derived in like manner from an
oblique sphere. The motion of a planet is direct or
retrograde, in consequentia ( or in
in reference to a certain assumed standard direction for
celestial motions, namely, the direction opposite to that
o f the sun’s daily motion, and agreeing with his annual
motion among the stars; or with what is much more
evident, the moon’s monthly motion. The equation qf
tim e is the quantity which must be added to or sub­
tracted from the time marked by the sun, in order to
reduce it to a theoretical condition of equable progress.
In like manner the equation qf the center of the sun or
4 8 8 APHORISMS CONCERNING
of the moon is the angle which must be added to, or sub­
tracted from, the actual advance of the luminary in the
heavens, in order to make its motion equable. Besides
the equation of the center of the moon, which represents
the first and greatest of her deviations from equable
motion, there are many other , by the applica­
tion of which her motion is brought nearer and nearer
to perfect uniformity. The second of these equations is
called the erection, the third the variation, the fourth
the annual equation. The motion of the sun as affected
by its inequalities is called his anomaly, which term
denotes inequality. In the History of Astronomy, we
find that the inequable motions of the sun, moon, and
planets were, in a great measure, reduced to rule and
system by the Greeks, by the aid of an hypothesis of
circles, revolving, and carrying in their motion other
circles which also revolved. This hypothesis introduced
many technical terms, as deferent, epicycle, eccentric. In
like manner, the theories which have more recently
taken the place of the theory of epicycles have intro­
duced other technical terms, as the elliptical orbit, the
radius vector, and the equcibledescr
this radius, which phrases express the true laws of the
planetary motions.
There is no subject on which theoretical views have
been so long and so extensively prevalent as astronomy,
and therefore no other science in which there are so many
technical terms of the kind we are now considering.
But in other subjects also, so far as theories have been
established, they have been accompanied by the intro­
duction or fixation of technical terms. Thus, as we have
seen in the examination of the foundations of mechanics,
the termsforce and inei'tia derive their precise meaning
from a recognition of the first law of motion;
ting force and composition of motion involve the second
TOE LANGUAGE OF SCIENCE. 4 8 0
law; moving f
o
r
c
e
, momentum, action and reaction, are
expressions which imply the third law. The term vis
viva was introduced to express a general property of
moving bodies; and other terms have been introduced
forlike purposes, as impetus by Smeaton, and work done,
by other engineers. In the recent writings of several
French engineers, the term travail is much employed,
to express the work done and the force which does it :
this term has been rendered by labouringforce. The
proposition which was termed the hydrostatic paradox
had this name in reference to its violating a supposed
law of the action of forces. The verb to gravitate, and
the abstract term gravitation, sealed the establishment
of Newton’s theory of the solar system.
In some of the sciences, opinions, either false, or dis­
guised in very fantastical imagery, have prevailed ; and
the terms which have been introduced during the reign
of such opinions, bear the impress of the time. Thus in
the days of alchemy, the substances with which the
operator dealt were personified; and a metal when
exhibited pure and free from all admixture was con­
sidered as a little king, and was hence called a
a term not yet quite obsolete. In like manner, a sub­
stance from which nothing more of any value could be
extracted, was dead, and was called a caput mortuum.
Quick silver, that is, live silver ( vivum), was
killed by certain admixtures, and was revived when
restored to its pure state.
We find a great number of medical terms which bear
the mark of opinions formerly prevalent among physi­
cians; and though these opinions hardly form a part of
the progress of science, and were not presented in our
History, we may notice some of these terms as examples
of the mode in which words involve in their derivation
obsolete opinions. Such words as hysterics, hypochon­
driac, melancholy, cholera, colic,
4 9 0 APHORISMS CONCERNING
auudyx’h a suffocation), megrim, migraine
the middle of the skull), rickets, (rachitis, from
the backbone), palsy, (p
a
ra
ly
siira
p
a
X
v
c
rK
,) apoplexy
(airoirXtifya, a stroke), emrods, hemorrhoids,
a flux of blood), imposthume, (corrupted from
airocTTTina, an abscess), phthisic consumption),
tympany (tuuva
v
i
a
,s
welling), dropsy (hydropsy, CSpw^,)
sciatica, isciatica (i<Txia^K
ir,from the hip
(Karappovi, a flowing down), diarrhoea a flowing
through), diabetes a passing through), dysen­
tery (¿vcrevrepia, a disorder of the entrails), arthritic
pains (from updpa,the joints), are names derived
the supposed or real seat and circumstances of the
diseases. The word from which the first of the above
names is derived (uarepa, the last place,) signifies the
womb, according to its order in a certain systematic
enumeration of parts. The second word, hypochondriac,
means something affecting the viscera below the cartilage
of the breastbone, which cartilage is called x ^ P 0*'
melancholy and cholera derive their names from sup­
posed affections of x°^n, the bile. Colic is that which
affects the colon ( k w X ov), the largest mem
bowels. A disorder of the eye is called gutta serena
(the “ drop serene” of Milton), in contradistinction to
gutta turbida, in which the impediment to vision is per­
ceptibly opake. Other terras also record the opinions
of the ancient anatomists, as duodenum, a certain portion
of the intestines, which they estimated as twelve inches
long. We might add other allusions, as the tendon qf
AchiUes.
Astrology also supplied a number of words founded
upon fanciful opinions; but this study having been ex­
pelled from the list of sciences, such words now survive
only so far as they have found a place in common lan­
guage. Thus men were termed mercurial, martial,
jovial, or s
a
t
w
'
n
m
e
,
accordingly as their characters were
Digitized by Google
THE LANGUAGE OF SCIENCE. 4 9 1
supposed to be determined by the influence of the
planets, Mercury, Mars, Jupiter, or Saturn. Other ex­
pressions, such as disastrous, Hi-starred, exorbitant, lord
of the ascendant, and hence ascendancy, influence, a
sphere of action, and the like, may serve to show how
extensively astrological opinions have affected language,
though the doctrine is no longer a recognized science.
The preceding examples will make it manifest that
opinions, even of a recondite and complex kind, are often
implied in the derivation of words; and thus will show
how scientific terms, framed by the cultivators of science,
may involve received hypotheses and theories. When
terms are thus constructed, they serve not only to con­
vey with ease, but to preserve steadily and to diffuse
widely, the opinions which they thus assume. More­
over, they enable the speculator to employ these com­
plex conceptions, the creations of science, and the results
of much labour and thought, as readily and familiarly as
if they were convictions borrowed at once from the
senses. They are thus powerful instruments in enabling
philosophers to ascend from one step of induction and
generalization to another; and hereby contribute power­
fully to the advance of knowledge and truth.
It should be noticed, before we proceed, that the
names of natural objects, when they come to be con­
sidered as the objects of a science, are selected accord­
ing to the processes already enumerated. For the most
part, the natural historian adopts the common names of
animals, plants, mineral, gems, and the like, and only
endeavours to secure their steady and consistent appli­
cation. But many of these names imply some peculiar,
often fanciful, belief respecting the object.
Various plants derive their names from their sup­
posed virtues, as hemiaria, rupture-wort; or from
legends, as herba Sancti Johannis, St. John's wort.
The same is the case with minerals: thus the topaz
4 9 2 APHORISMS CONCERNING
was asserted to come from an island so shrouded in
mists that navigators could only conjecture (ro»aJ«r)
where it was. In these latter cases, however, the legend
is often not the true origin of the name, but is sug­
gested by it.
The privilege of constructing names where they are
wanted, belongs to natural historians no less than to the
cultivators of physical science; yet in the ancient world,
writers of the former class appear rarely to have exer­
cised this privilege, even when they felt the imperfections
of the current language. Thus Aristotle repeatedly
mentions classes of animals which have no name, as co­
ordinate with classes that have names; but he hardly
ventures to propose names which may supply these de­
fects*. The vast importance of nomenclature in natural
history was not recognized till the modern period.
We have, however, hitherto considered only the for­
mation or appropriation of single terms in science; except
so far as several terms may in some instances be con­
nected by reference to a common theory. But when
the value of technical terms began to be fully appreciated,
philosophers proceeded to introduce them into their
sciences more copiously and in a more systematic man­
ner. In this way, the modern history of technical lan­
guage has some features of a different aspect from the
ancient; and must give rise to a separate Aphorism.
A ph o r ism II.
In the Modern Period of Science, besides the three pro­
cesses anciently employed theformation of technical
terms, there hate been introduced Systematic
* In his Historyof Animals, (Book I. chap, vi.), he says,
great classes of animals are Quadrupeds, Birds, Fishes, Whales
ceans),Oysters (Tcstaccans),animals like crabs which have n
name (Crustaceans), soft animals (Mollusks and Insects). He does, how­
ever, call the Crustacea by a name traca, soft-shelled) which
has since been adopted by Naturalists.
TITE LANGUAGE OF SCIENCE. 4 9 3
dature,Systematic T
e
r
m
i
n
o
l
o
g
y
, and the Systematic
Modification of Terms to express theoretical relations*.
W r it e r s upon science have gone on up to modern
times forming such technical terms as they had occasion
for, by the three processes above described;—namely,
appropriating and limiting words in common use;—con­
structing for themselves words descriptive of the con­
ception which they wished to convey;—or framing terms
which by their signification imply the adoption of a
theory. Thus among the terms introduced by the study
of the connexion between magnetism and electricity, the
word poleis an example of the first kind; the name of
the subject, electro-magnetism, of the second; and the
term current, involving an hypothesis of the motion of a
fluid, is an instance of the third class. In chemistry, the
term salt was adopted from common language, and its
meaning extended to denote any compound of a certain
kind; the term neutral salt implied the notion of a
balanced opposition in the two elements of the com­
pound; and such words as subacid and superacid, in­
vented on purpose, were introduced to indicate the cases
in which this balance was not attained. Again, when
the phlogistic theory of chemistry was established, the
term phlogiston was introduced to express the theory,
and from this such terms as phlogisticated and dephlo-
gisticated were derived, exclusively words of science.
But in such instances as have just been given, we ap­
proach towards a systematic modification of terms, which
is a peculiar process of modern times. Of this, modern
chemistry forms a prominent example, which we shall
soon consider, but we shall first notice the other pro­
cesses mentioned in the Aphorism.
• On the subject of Terminology and Nomenclature, see also Apho­
risms Lxxxvrn. and xcvrn. concerning Ideas, and Book vrn. chap. ii. of
the Philosophy.
4 9 4 APHORISMS CONCERNING
I. In ancient times, ncrattempt was made to invent
or select a Nomenclature of the objects of Natural
History which should be precise and permanent. The
omission of this step by the ancient naturalists gave rise
to enormous difficulty and loss of time when the sciences
resumed their activity. We have seen in the history of
the sciences of classification, and of botany in especial*,
that the early cultivators of that study in modern times
endeavoured to identify all the plants described by
Greek and Roman writers with those which grow in the
north of Europe; and were involved in endless confusiont,
by the multiplication of names of plants, at the same
time superfluous and ambiguous. The Synonymies which
botanists (Bauhin and others) found it necessary to pub­
lish, were the evidences of these inconveniences. In con­
sequence of the defectiveness of the ancient botanical
nomenclature, we are even yet uncertain with respect to
the identification of some of the most common trees
mentioned by classical writers The ignorance of botan­
ists respecting the importance of nomenclature operated
in another manner to impede the progress of science.
As a good nomenclature presupposes a good system of
classification, so, on the other hand, a system of classifi­
cation cannot become permanent without a correspond­
ing nomenclature. Cæsalpinus, in the sixteenth centuryf,
published an excellent system of arrangement for plants ;
but this, not being connected with any system of names,
was never extensively accepted, and soon fell into ob­
livion. The business of framing a scientific botanical
classification was in this way delayed for about a century.
In the same manner, Willoughby’s classification of fishes,
• H u t . I n d . Sex., B. xvi. c. ii.
t For instance, whether thofeign* of the Latins be the beech or the
chestnut. $ Hi*t. Ind. Set., B. xvi. c. iii. 9ect. 3.
§ Ibid., B. xvi. c. iii. sect. 2.
THE LANGUAGE OF SCIENCE. 4 9 5
though, as Cuvier says, far better than any which pre­
ceded it, was never extensively adopted, in consequence
of having no nomenclature connected with it.
II. Probably one main cause which so long retarded
the work of fixing at the same time the arrangement and
the names of plants, was the great number of minute
and diversified particulars in the structure of each plant
which such a process implied. The stalks, leaves, flowers,
and fruits of vegetables, with their appendages, may vary
in so many ways, that common language is quite insuf­
ficient to express clearly and precisely their resemblances
and differences. Hence botany required not only a fixed
system of names of plants, but also an artificial system
of phrases fitted to describe their parts: not only a
Nomenclature, but also a Terminology. The Termi­
nology was, in fact, an instrument indispensably requisite
in giving fixity to the Nomenclature. The recognition
of the kinds of plants must depend upon the exact com­
parison of their resemblances and differences; and to
become a part of permanent science, this comparison
must be recorded in words.
The formation of an exact descriptive language for
botany was thus the first step in that systematic con­
struction of the technical language of science, which is
one of the main features in the intellectual history of
modern times. The ancient botanists, as Decandolle*
says, did not make any attempt to select terms of which
the sense was rigorously determined; and each of them
employed in his descriptions the words, metaphors, or
periphrases which his own genius suggested. In the
History of Botany+, I have noticed some of the persons
who contributed to this improvement. “ Clusius,” it is
there stated, “ first taught botanists to describe well.
* Tkeor. Elem. de B o t p. 327.
+ Hist. Ind. a
SW., B xvi c. iii. sect. 3.
49G APHORISMS CONCERNING
He introduced exactitude, precision, neatness, elegance,
method: he says nothing superfluous; he omits nothing
necessary.” This task was further carried on by Jung
and Ray*. In these authors we see the importance
which began to be attached to the exact definition of
descriptive terms; for example, Ray quotes Jung’s defi­
nition of Caulis, a stalk.
The improvement of descriptive language, and the
formation of schemes of classification of plants, went on
gradually for some time, and was much advanced by
Tournefort. But at last Linnaeus embodied and followed
out the convictions which had gradually been accumu­
lating in the breasts of botanists; and by remodelling
throughout both the terminology and the nomenclature
of botany, produced one of the greatest reforms which
ever took place in any science. He thus supplied a con­
spicuous example of such a reform, and a most admirable
model of a language, from which other sciences may
gather great instruction. I shall not here give any
account of the terms and words introduced by Linnaeus.
They have been exemplified in the History of f ;
and the principles which they involve I shall consider
separately hereafter. I will only remind the reader that
the great simplification in jiomenclalure which was the
result of his labours, consisted in designating each kind
of plant by a binaiy term consisting of the name of the
genus combined with that of the species: an artifice
seemingly obvious, but more convenient in its results
than could possibly have been anticipated.
Since Linnaeus, the progress of Botanical Anatomy
and of Descriptive Botany have led to the rejection of
several inexact expressions, and to the adoption of several
new terms, especially in describing the structure of the
• Hist. Ind. S c i B. X
V
I. c. iii. sect. 3. (about a, D. IOGO).
+ /b.y c. iv\ sect. I—3.
THE LANGUAGE OF SCIENCE. 4 9 7
fruit and the parts of cryptogamous plants. Hedwig,
Medikus, Necker, Desvaux, Mirbel, and especially Gsert-
ner, Link, and Richard, have proposed several useful
innovations, in these as in other parts of the subject;
but the general mass of the words now current consists
.still, and will probably continue to consist, of the terms
established by the Swedish Botanist*.
When it was seen that botany derived so great advan­
tages from a systematic improvement of its language, it
was natural that other sciences, and especially classifi-
catory sciences, should endeavour to follow its example.
This attempt was made in Mineralogy by Werner, and
afterwards further pursued by Mohs. Werner’s innova­
tions in the descriptive language of Mineralogy were the
result of great acuteness, an intimate acquaintance with
minerals, and a most methodical spirit: and were in most
respects great improvements upon previous practices.
Yet the introduction of them into Mineralogy was far
from regenerating that science, as Botany had been rege­
nerated by the Linnsean reform. It would seem that
the perpetual scrupulous attention to most minute dif­
ferences, (as of lustre, colour, fracture,) the greater part
of which are not really important, fetters the mind,
rather than disciplines it or arms it for generalization.
Cuvier has remarkedf that Werner, after his first Essay
on theCharacters of Minerals, wrote little; as if he had
been afraid of using the system which he had created,
and desirous of escaping from the chains which he had
imposed upon others. And he justly adds, that Werner
dwelt least, in his descriptions, upon that which is really
the most important feature of all, the crystalline struc­
ture. This, which is truly a definite character, like those
of Botany, does, when it can be clearly discerned, deter­
mine the place of the mineral in a system. This, there-
• D e Candolle, Th. Elem., p 307- + Elogts, n . 314.
V O L . II. W . P . K K
4 9 8 APHORISMS CONCERNING
fore, is the character which, of all others, ought to be
most carefully expressed by an appropriate language.
This task, hardly begun by Werner, has since been fully
executed by others, especially by Romé de ITsle, Haüy,
and Mohs. All the forms of crystals can be described
in the most precise manner by the aid of the labours of
these writers and their successors. But there is one cir­
cumstance well worthy our notice in these descriptions.
It is found that the language in which they can best be
conveyed is not that of words, but of symbols. The
relations of space which are involved in the forms of
crystalline bodies, though perfectly definite, are so com­
plex and numerous, that they cannot be expressed, except
in the language of mathematics: and thus we have an
extensive and recondite branch of mathematical science,
which is, in fact, only a part of the Terminology of the
mineralogist.
The Terminology of Mineralogy being thus reformed,
an attempt was made to improve its Nomenclature also,
by following the example of Botany. Professor Mohs
was the proposer of this innovation. The names framed
by him were, however, not composed of two but of three
elements! designating respectively the Species, the Genus,
and the Order*: thus he has such species as
hedralLime Haloide, Octahedral Fluor Pris­
matic Hal Baryte. These names have not been gene­
rally adopted; nor is it likely that any names constructed
on such a scheme will find acceptance among mineralo­
gists, till the higher divisions of the system are found to
have some definite character. We see no real mineralogi-
cal significance in Mohs’s Genera and Orders, and hence
we do not expect them to retain a permanent place in
the science. “
The only systematic names which have hitherto been
* Hist. Ivd. Sri., B. xv. c. ix.
THE LANGUAGE OF SCIENCE. 4 9 9
generally admitted in Mineralogy, are those expressing
the chemical constitution of the substance; and these
belong to a system of technical terms different from any
we have yet spoken of, namely to terms formed by sys­
tematic modification.
III. The language of Chemistry was already, as we
have seen, tending to assume a systematic character,
even under the reign of the phlogiston theory. But
when oxygen succeeded to the throne, it very fortu­
nately happened that its supporters had the courage
and the foresight to undertake a completely new and
systematic recoinage of the terms belonging to the sci­
ence. The new nomenclature was constructed upon a
principle hitherto hardly applied in science, but eminently
commodious and fertile; namely, the principle of indi­
cating a modification of relations of elements, by a change
in the termination of the word. Thus the new chemical
school spoke of sulphuric and sulphurous acids ; of sul­
phates and sulphites of bases ; and of sulphurets of
metals; and in like manner, of phos and phos­
phorous acids, of phosphates, phosphites, phos
-In this manner a nomenclature was produced, in which
the very name of a substance indicated at once its con­
stitution and place in the system.
The introduction of this chemical language can never
cease to be considered one of the most important steps
ever made in the improvement of technical terms ; and
as a signal instance of the advantages which may result
from artifices apparently trivial, if employed in a manner
conformable to the laws of phenomena, and systemati­
cally pursued. It was, however, proved that this lan­
guage, with all its merits, had some defects. The relations
of elements in composition were discovered to be more
numerous than the modes of expression which the ter­
minations supplied. Besides the sulphurous and sui­
te K 2
500 APHORISMS CONCERNING
phuric acids, it appeared there were others; these were
called the hyposulphurousand : but these
names, though convenient, no longer implied, by their
form, any definite relation. The compounds of Nitro­
gen and Oxygen are, in order, the Protoxide, the Deut­
oxide or Binoxide; Hyponitrous Acid, Nitrous Acid,
and Nitric Acid. The nomenclature here ceases to be
systematic. We have three oxides of Iron, of which we
may call the first the Protoxide, but we cannot call the
others the Deutoxide and Tritoxide, for by doing so we
should convey a perfectly erroneous notion of the pro­
portions of the elements. They are called the Protoxide,
the Black Oxide, and the Peroxide. We are here thrown
back upon terms quite unconnected with the system.
Other defects in the nomenclature arose from errours
in the theory; as for example the names of the muria­
tic, oxymuriatic, and hyperoxymuriatic acids; which,
after the establishment of the new theory of chlorine,
were changed to hydrochloric acid, chlorine, and chloric
acid.
Thus the chemical system of nomenclature, founded
upon the oxygen theory, while it show’s how much may
be effected by a good and consistent scheme of terms,
framed according to the real relations of objects, proves
also that such a scheme can hardly be permanent in its
original form, but will almost inevitably become imper­
fect and anomalous, in consequence of the accumulation
of new facts, and the introduction of new generalizations.
Still, we may venture to say that such a scheme does
not, on this account, become worthless; for it not only
answers its purpose in the stage of scientific progress to
which it belongs:—so far as it is not erroneous, or
merely conventional, but really systematic and significant
of truth, its terms can be translated at once into the
language of any higher generalization which is after-
THE LANGUAGE OP SCIENCE. 5 01
wards arrived at. If terms express relations really
ascertained to be true, they can never lose their value
by any change of the received theory. They are like
coins of pure metal, which, even when carried into a
country which does not recognize the sovereign whose
impress they bear, are still gladly received, and may, by
the addition of an explanatory mark, continue part of
the common currency of the country.
These two great instances of the reform of scientific
language, in Botany and in Chemistry, are much the
most important and instructive events of this kind which
the history of science offers. It is not necessary to pur­
sue our historical survey further. Our remaining Aphor­
isms respecting the Language of Science will be collected
and illustrated indiscriminately, from the precepts and
the examples of preceding philosophers of all periods.
We may, however, remark that Aphorisms III., IV.,
V., VI., VII., respect peculiarly the Formation of Tech­
nical Terms by the Appropriation of Common Words,
while the remaining ones apply to the Formation of New
Terms.
It does not appear possible to lay down a system of
rules which may determine and regulate the construction
of all technical terms, on all the occasions on which the
progress of science makes them necessary or convenient.
But if we can collect a few maxims such as have already
offered themselves to the minds of philosophers, or such
as may be justified by the instances by which we shall
illustrate them, these maxims may avail to guide us in
doubtful cases, and to prevent our aiming at advantages
which are unattainable, or being disturbed by seeming
imperfections which are really no evils. I shall therefore
state such maxims of this kind as seem most sound and
useful.
6 0 2 APHORISMS CONCERNING
A p h o r is m II I.
In framing scientific terms, the appropriation of old
words is preferable to the invention of new ones.
T h is maxim is stated by Bacon in his usual striking
manner. After mentioning Metaphysic, as one of the
divisions of Natural Philosophy, he adds*: “ Wherein
I desire it may be conceived that I use the word meta­
physic in a differing sense from that that is received:
and in like manner I doubt not but it will easily appear
to men of judgment that in this and other particulars,
wheresoever my conception and notion may differ from
the ancient, yet I am studious to keep the ancient terms.
For, hoping well to deliver myself from mistaking by
the order and perspicuous expressing of that I do pro­
pound ; I am otherwise zealous and affectionate to recede
as little from antiquity, either in terms or opinions, as
may stand with truth, and the proficience of knowledge,
. . . To me, that do desire, as much as lieth in my pen,
to ground a sociable intercourse between antiquity and
proficience, it seemeth best to keep a way with antiquity
usque ad aras;and therefore to retain the anc
terms, though I sometimes alter the uses and definitions;
according to the moderate proceeding in civil govern­
ments, when, although there be some alteration, yet that
holdeth which Tacitus wisely notetli, eadem magistra-
tuum vocabula."
We have had before us a sufficient number of ex­
amples of scientific terms thus framed; for they formed
the first of three classes which we described in the First
Aphorism. And we may again remark, that science,
when she thus adopts terms which are in common use,
always limits and fixes their meaning in a technical
manner. We may also repeat here the warning already
given respecting terms of this kind, that they are peculi­
* De A u g m Lib. m . c. iv.
THE LANGUAGE OF SCIENCE. 5 0 3
arly liable to mislead readers who do not take care to
understand them in their technical instead of their com­
mon signification. Force, momentum, inertia, impetus,
vis viva, are terms which are very useful, if we rigorously
bear in mind the import which belongs to each of them
in the best treatises on Mechanics; but if the reader
content himself with conjecturing their meaning from the
context, his knowledge will be confused and worthless.
In the application of this Third Aphorism, other
rules are to be attended to, which I add.
A p h o r is m IV.
When common words are appropriated as technical
terms, their meaning and relations in common use
should be retained as fa r as can conveniently be
done.
I w i l l state an example in which this rule seems
to be applicable. Mr. Davies Gilbert* has recently pro­
posed the term efficiency to designate the work which a
machine, according to the force exerted upon it, is capa­
ble of doing; the work being measured by the weight
raised, and the space through which it is raised, jointly.
The usual term employed among engineers for the work
which a machine actually does, measured in the way
just stated, is duty. But as there appears to be a little
incongruity in calling that work efficiency which the
machine ought to do, when we call that work duty which
it really does, I have proposed to term these two quan­
tities theoretical efficiency and practical efficiency, or
theoretical duty and practical
Since common words are often vague in their mean-
• Phil. Tram. 1827, p.25.
t The term travail is used by French engineers, to express efficiency
or theoretical duty. This term has been rendered in English by
labouring force. '
5 0 4 APHORISMS CONCERNING
ing, I add as a necessary accompaniment to the Third
Aphorism the following:—
A p h o r is m V .
When common words are appropriated as technical
terms, their meaning may he modified, and must be
rigorouslyfixed.
T h is is stated by Bacon in the above extract: “to
retain the ancient terms, though I sometimes alter the
uses and d
e
f
i
n
i
t
i
o
n
s
'
’ The scientific use of the term is
in all cases much more precise than the common use.
The loose notions of velocity and force for instance,
which are sufficient for the usual purposes of language,
require to be fixed by exact measures when these are
made terms in the science of Mechanics.
This scientific fixation of the meaning of words is to
be looked upon as a matter of convention, although it is
in reality often an inevitable result of the progress of
science. Momentum is conventionally defined to be the
product of the numbers expressing the weight and the
velocity; but then, it could be of no use in expressing
the laws of motion if it were defined otherwise.
Hence it is no valid objection to a scientific term that
the word in common language does not mean exactly
the same as in its common use. It is no sufficient rea­
son against the use of the term acid for a class of bodies,
that all the substances belonging to this class are not
sour. We have seen that a trapezium is used in geo­
metry for any four-sided figure, though originally it
meant a figure with two opposite sides parallel and the
two others equal. A certain stratum which lies below
the chalk is termed by English geologists the green sand.
It has sometimes been objected to this denomination
that the stratum has very frequently no tinge of green,
and that it is often composed of lime with little or no
THE LANGUAGE OF SCIENCE. 5 0 5
sand. Yet the term is a good technical term in spite of
these apparent improprieties ; so long as it is carefully
applied to that stratum which is geologically equivalent
to the greenish sandy bed to which the appellation was
originally applied.
When it appeared that geometry would have to be
employed as much at least about the heavens as the
earth, Plato exclaimed against the folly of calling the
science by such a name ; since the word signifies “ earth­
measuring yet the word geometry has retained its place
and answered its purpose perfectly well up to the pre­
sent day.
But though the meaning of the term may be modi­
fied or extended, it must be rigorously fixed when it is
appropriated to science. This process is most abun­
dantly exemplified by the terminology of Natural His­
tory, and especially of Botany, in which each term has
a most precise meaning assigned to it. Thus Linnaeus
established exact distinctions between fasciculus, capitu-
lum, racemus, thyrsus, paniculus, spica, amentum,
bus, umbella, cyma, verticillus ;or, in the lang
English Botanists, a tuft, a head, a cluster, a bunch, a
panicle, a spike, a catkin, a corymb, an umbel, a cyme,
a whorl. And it has since been laid down as a rule*,
that each organ ought to have a separate and appropri­
ate name ; so that the term leaf, for instance, shall never
be applied to a leaflet, a bractea, or a sepal of the calyx.
Botanists have not been content with fixing the
meaning of their terms by verbal definition, but have
also illustrated them by figures, which address the eye.
Of these, as excellent modern examples, may be men­
tioned those which occur in the works of Mirbelf, and
LindleyJ.
• De Candolle, Theor. EL, 328. t Elément de Botanique.
X Elements of Botany.
5 0 6 APHORISMS CONCERNING
A p h o r ism VI.
When commonwords are appropriated as technical
terms, this must be done so that they are not ambigu­
ous in their application.
A n example will explain this maxim. The condi­
tions of a body, as a solid, a liquid, and an air, have
been distinguished as different forms of the body. But
the wordform, as applied to bodies, has other meanings;
so that if we were to inquire in what form water exists
in a snow-cloud, it might be doubted whether the forms
of crystallization were meant, or the different forms of
ice, water, and vapour. Hence I have proposed* to
reject the term form in such cases, and to speak of the
different consistence of a body in these conditions. The
term consistence is usually applied to conditions between
solid and fluid; and may without effort be extended to
those limiting conditions. And though it may appear
more harsh to extend the term consistence to the state
of air, it may be justified by what has been said in speak­
ing of Aphorism V.
I may notice another example of the necessity of
avoiding ambiguous words. A philosopher who makes
method his study, would naturally be termed a metho­
dist; but unluckily this word is already appropriated to
a religious sect: and hence we could hardly venture to
speak of Csesalpinus, Ray, Morison, Rivinus, Tournefort,
Linnaeus, and their successors, as botanical methodists.
Again, by this maxim, we are almost debarred from using
the term physician for a cultivator of the science of phy­
sics, because it already signifies a practiser of physic.
We might, perhaps, still use physician as the equivalent
of the French physicien, in virtue of Aphorism V .; but
probably it would be better to form a new word. Thus
* Hist. Ind. Sci., B
. x. c. ii. 9ect. 2.
THE LANGUAGE OF SCIENCE. 507
we may say, that while the Naturalist employs prin­
cipally the ideas of resemblance and life, the Physicist
proceeds upon the ideas of force, matter, and the pro­
perties of matter.
Whatever may be thought of this proposal, the
maxim which it implies is frequently useful. It is this.
Aphorism VII.
It is better toform new words as technical terms, than to
employ old ones in which the last three
cannot be complied with.
The principal inconvenience attending the employ­
ment of new words constructed expressly for the use of
science, is the difficulty of effectually introducing them.
Readers will not readily take the trouble to learn the
meaning of a word, in which the memory is not assisted
by some obvious suggestiou connected with the common
use of language. When this difficulty is overcome, the
new word is better than one merely appropriated; since
it is more secure from vagueness and confusion. And in
cases where the inconveniences belonging to a scientific
use of common words become great and inevitable, a
new word must be framed and introduced.
The Maxims which belong to the construction of
such words will be stated hereafter; but I may notice
an instance or two tending to show the necessity of the
Maxim now before us.
The word Force has been appropriated in the science
of Mechanics in two senses: as indicating the cause of
motion; and again, as expressing certain measures of
the effects of this cause, in the phrases accelerating
force and moving force. Hence we might have occa­
sion to speak of the accelerating or moving force of a
certain force; for instance, if we were to say that the
force which governs the motions of the planets resides
5 0 8 APHORISMS CONCERNING
in the sun; and that the accelerating force this force
varies only with the distance, but its moving force varies
as the product of the mass of the sun and the planet
This is a harsh and incongruous mode of expression;
and might have been avoided, if, instead of accelerating
force and moving f
o
r
c
e
, single abstract terms h
introduced by Newton: if, for instance, he had said that
the velocity generated in a second measures the accelera.
tivity of the force which produces it, and the momen­
tum produced in a second measures the motivity of the
force.
The science which treats of heat has hitherto had no
special designation: treatises upon it have generally
been termed treatises On Heat. But this practice of
employing the same term to denote the property and
the science which treats of it, is awkward, and often
ambiguous. And it is further attended with this incon­
venience, that we have no adjective derived from the
name of the science, as we have in other cases, when we
speak of acoustical experiments and optical theories.
This inconvenience has led various persons to suggest
names for the Science of Heat. M. Comte terms it
Thermology. In the History of the Sciences, I have
named it Thermotics, which appears to me to agree
better with the analogy of the names of other corre­
sponding sciences, Acoustics and Optics.
Electricity is in the same condition as Heat; having
only one word to express the property and the science.
M. Le Comte proposes Electrology: for the same reason
as before, I should conceive Electrics more agreeable to
analogy. The coincidence of the word with the plural
of Electric would not give rise to ambiguity; for Elec­
trics, taken as the name of a science, would be singular,
like Optics and Mechanics. But a term offers itself to
express common or machine Electrics, which appears
THE LANGUAGE OF SCIENCE. 5 0 9
worthy of admission, though involving a theoretical view.
The received doctrine of the difference between Voltaic
and Common Electricity is, that in the former case the
fluid must be considered as in motion, in the latter as at
rest. The science which treats of the former class of
subjects is commonly termed Electrodynamics, which
obviously suggests the name Electrostatics for the latter.
The subject of the Tides is, in like manner, destitute
of any name which designates the science concerned
about it. I have ventured to employ the term
having been much engaged in tidological researches.
Many persons possess a peculiarity of vision, which
disables them from distinguishing certain colours. On
examining many such cases, we find that in all such per­
sons the peculiarities are the same; all of them con­
founding scarlet with green, and pink with blue. Hence
they form a class, which, for the convenience of physiolo­
gists and others, ought to have a fixed designation. In­
stead of calling them, as has usually been done, “per­
sons having a peculiarity of vision,” we might take a
Greek term implying this meaning, and term them
Idiopts.
But my business at present is not to speak of the
selection of new terms when they are introduced, but to
illustrate the maxim that the necessity for their intro­
duction often arises. The construction of new terms
will be treated of subsequently.
Aphorism VIII.
Terms must be constructed and appropriated so as to be
fitted to enunciate simply and clearly true general
propositions.
This Aphorism may be considered as the fundamental
principle and supreme rule of all scientific terminology.
It is asserted by Cuvier, speaking of a particular case.
5 1 0 APHORISMS CONCERNING
Thus he says* of Gmelin, that by placing the lamantin
in the genus of morses, and the siren in the genus of
eels, he had rendered every general proposition respect­
ing the organization of those genera impossible.
The maxim is true of words appropriated as well
as invented, and applies equally to the mathematical,
chemical, and classificatory sciences. With regard to
most of these, and especially the two former classes, it
has been abundantly exemplified already, in what has
previously been said, and in the History of the Sciences.
For we have there had to notice many technical terms,
with the occasions of their introduction ; and all these
occasions have involved the intention of expressing in a
convenient manner some truth or supposed truth. The
terms of Astronomy were adopted for the purpose of
stating and reasoning upon the relations of the celestial
motions, according to the doctrine of the sphere, and the
other laws which were discovered by astronomers. The
few technical terms which belong to Mechanics, force,
Telocity, momentum, inertia, &c., were employed from
the first with a view to the expression of the laws of
motion and of rest ; and were, in the end, limited so as
truly and simply to express those laws when they were
fully ascertained. In Chemistry, the term phlogiston was
useful, as has been shown in the History, in classing to­
gether processes which really are of the same nature;
and the nomenclature of the oxygen theory was still
preferable, because it enabled the chemist to express a
still greater number of general truths.
To the connexion here asserted, of theory and nomen­
clature, we have the testimony of the author of the
oxygen theory. In the Preface to his Chemistry, Lavoi­
sier says :—“Thus while I thought myself employed only
in forming a Nomenclature, and while I proposed to
* Régné Animal, Introd. viii.
THE LANGUAGE OF SCIENCE. 5 11
myself nothing more than to improve the chemical lan­
guage, my work transformed itself by degrees, without
my being able to prevent it, into a Treatise on the Ele­
ments of Chemistry.” And he then proceeds to show
how this happened.
It is, however, mainly through the progress of Natu­
ral History in modern times, that philosophers have
been led to see the importance and necessity of new
terms in expressing new truths. Thus Harvey, in the
Preface to his work on Generation, says:—“ Be not
offended if in setting out the History of the Egg I make
use of a new method, and sometimes of unusual terms.
For as they which find out a new plantation and new
shores call them by names of their own coining, which
posterity afterwards accepts and receives, so those that
find out new secrets have good title to their compella-
tion. And here, methinks, I hear Galen advising: If we
consent in the things, contend not about the words.”
The Nomenclature which answers the purposes of
Natural History is a Systematic Nomenclature, and will
be further considered under the next Aphorism. But we
may remark, that the Aphorism now before us governs
the use of words, not in science only, but in common
language also. Are we to apply the name to ani­
mals of the whale kind ? The answer is determined by
our present rule: we are to do so, or not, accordingly as
we can best express true propositions. If we are speak­
ing of the internal structure and physiology of the ani­
mal, we must not call them fish ; for in these respects
they deviate widely from fishes: they have warm blood,
and produce and suckle their young as land quadrupeds
do. But this would not prevent our speaking of the
whale-fishery, and calling such animals fish on all occa­
sions connected with this employment; for the relations
thus arising depend upon the animal’s living in the
5 1 2 APHORISMS CONCERNING
water, and being caught in a manner similar to other
fishes. A plea that human laws which mention fish do
not apply to whales, would be rejected at once by an
intelligent judge.
Aphorism IX.
In theClassifcatory Sciences, a Systematic Nomencla­
ture is necessary ; and the System, and the Nomencla­
ture are each essential ta the utility of the other.
T h e inconveniences arising from the want of a good
Nomenclature were long felt in Botany, and are still felt
in Mineralogy. The attempts to remedy them by Syno­
nymies are very ineffective, for such comparisons of
synonymes do not supply a systematic nomenclature;
and such a one alone can enable us to state general
truths respecting the objects of which the classificatory
sciences treat. The System and the Names ought to be
introduced together; for the former is a collection of
asserted analogies and resemblances, for which the latter
provide simple and permanent expressions. Hence it
has repeatedly occurred in the progress of Natural His­
tory, that good Systems did not take root, or produce
any lasting effect among naturalists, because they were
not accompanied by a corresponding Nomenclature. In
this way, as we have already noticed, the excellent
botanical System of Csesalpinus was without immediate
effect upon the science. The work of Willoughby, as
Cuvier says*, forms an epoch, and a happy epoch in
Ichthyology ; yet because Willoughby had no Nomencla­
ture of his own, and no fixed names for his genera, his
immediate influence was not great. Again, in speaking
of Schlotheim’s work containing representations of fossil
vegetables, M. Adolphe Brongniart observesf that the
figures and descriptions are so good, that if the author
* HUt. des Poissons, Pref. t Prodronu Veg. Foss., p. 3.
THE LANGUAGE OF SCIENCE. 513
had established a nomenclature for the objects he de­
scribes, his work would have become the basis of all
succeeding labours on the subject.
As additional examples of cases in which the improve­
ment of classification, in recent times, has led philoso­
phers to propose new names, I may mention the term
Poscilite, proposed by Mr. Conybeare to designate the
group of strata which lies below the oolites and lias,
including the new red or variegated sandstone, with the
keuper above, and the magnesian limestone below it.
Again, the transition districts of our island have recently
been reduced to system by Professor Sedgwick and Mr.
Murchison; and this step has been marked by the terms
Cambrian system, and Silurian system, applied to the
two great groups of formations which they have respec­
tively examined, and by several other names of the sub­
ordinate members of these formations.
Thus System and Nomenclature are each essential to
the other. Without Nomenclature, the system is not
permanently incorporated into the general body of know­
ledge, and made an instrument of future progress.
Without System, the names cannot express general
truths, and contain no reason why they should be em­
ployed in preference to any other names.
This has been generally acknowledged by the most
philosophical naturalists of modern times. Thus Lin­
naeus begins that part of his Botanical Philosophy in
which names are treated of, by stating that the founda­
tion of botany is twofold, Disposition and Denomination;
and he adds this Latin line,
Nomina si ncsci9 pent et cognitio rerum.
And Cuvier, in the Preface to his Animal Kingdom, ex­
plains, in a very striking manner, how the attempt to
connect zoology with anatomy led him, at the same time,
VOL. II. w. p. L L
514 APHORISMS CONCERNING
to reform the classifications, and to correct the nomen­
clature of preceding zoologists.
I have stated that in Mineralogy we are still desti­
tute of a good nomenclature generally current. From
what has now been said, it will be seen that it may be
very far from easy to supply this defect, since we have,
as yet, no generally received system of mineralogical
classification. Till we know what are really different spe­
cies of minerals, and in what larger groups these species
can be arranged, so as to have common properties, we
shall never obtain a permanent mineralogical nomencla­
ture. Thus Leucocydite and Tesselite are minerals pre­
viously confounded with Apophyllite, which Sir John
Herschel and Sir David Brewster distinguished by those
names, in consequence of certain optical properties which
they exhibit. But are these properties definite distinc­
tions ? and are there any external differences correspond­
ing to them ? If not, can we consider them as separate
species ? and if not separate species, ought they to have
separate names ? In like manner, we might ask if
and Hornblende are really the same species, as Gustavus
Rose has maintained ? if Diallage and Hypersthene are
not definitely distinguished, which has been asserted by
Kobell ? Till such questions are settled, we cannot have
a fixed nomenclature in mineralogy. What appears the
best course to follow in the present state of the science,
I shall consider when we come to speak of the form of
technical terms.
I may, however, notice here that the main Forms of
systematic nomenclature are two :—terms which are
produced by combining words of higher and lower gene­
rality, as the binary names, consisting of the name of
the genus and the species, generally employed by natural
historians since the time of Linnæus —and terms in
which some relation of things is indicated by a change
THE LANGUAGE OF SCIENCE.
in the form of the word, for example, an alteration of its
termination, of which kind of nomenclature we have a
conspicuous example in the modern chemistry.
Aphorism X.
erms andchanges of terms, which are not needed
order to express tr
u
th
a
r
eto he avoided.
As the Seventh Aphorism asserted that novelties in
language may be and ought to be introduced, when they
aid the enunciation of truths, we now declare that they
are not admissible in any other case. New terms and
new systems of terms are not to be introduced, for
example, in virtue of their own neatness or symmetry,
or other merits, if there is no occasion for their use.
I may mention, as an old example of a superfluous
attempt of this kind, an occurrence in the history of
Astronomy. In 1628 John Bayer and Julius Schiller
devised a Caelum Christianum, in which the common
names of the planets, &c., were replaced by those of
Adam, Moses, and the Patriarchs. The twelve Signs
became the twelve Apostles, and the constellations be­
came sacred places and things. Peireskius, who had to
pronounce upon the value of this proposal, praised the
piety of the inventors, but did not approve, he said*, the
design of perverting and confounding whatever of celes­
tial information from the period of the earliest memory
is found in books.
Nor are slight anomalies in the existing language of
science sufficient ground for a change, if they do not
seriously interfere with the expression of our knowledge.
Thus Linnaeus saysf that a fair generic name is not to
be exchanged for another though apter one: and;}; if we
separate an old genus into several, we must try to find
• Gassendi, Vita Petretkii, 3
00. + Phil. Bot., 246. + lb., 247*
L L 2
5 1 5
Digitized by Googk
51G APHORISMS CONCERNING
names for them among the synonyms which describe the
old genus. This maxim excludes the restoration of
ancient names long disused, no less than the needless
invention of new ones. Linnaeus lays down this rule*;
and adds, that the botanists of the sixteenth century well
nigh ruined botany by their anxiety to recover the
ancient names of plants. In like manner Cuvierf
laments it as a misfortune, that he has had to introduce
many new names; and declares earnestly that he has
taken great pains to preserve those of his predecessors.
The great bulk which the Synonymy of botany and
of mineralogy have attained, shows us that this maxim
has not been universally attended to. In these cases,
however, the multiplication of different names for the
same kind of object has arisen in general from ignorance
of the identity of it under different circumstances, or
from the want of a system which might assign to it its
proper place. But there are other instances, in which
the multiplication of names has arisen not from defect,
but from excess, of the spirit of system. The love which
speculative men bear towards symmetry and complete­
ness is constantly at work, to make them create systems
of classification more regular and more perfect than can
be verified by the facts: and as good systems are closely
connected with a good nomenclature, systems thus erro­
neous and superfluous lead to a nomenclature which is
prejudicial to science. For although such a nomencla­
ture is finally expelled, when it is found not to aid us in
expressing the true laws of nature, it may obtain some
temporary sway, during which, and even afterwards, it
may be a source of much confusion.
We have a conspicuous example of such a result in
the geological nomenclature of Werner and his school.
Thus it was assumed, in Werner’s system, that his First,
• Phil. Bol., 248. + RegneAnim., Pref. p. rri.
THE LANGUAGE OF SCIENCE. 517
Second, and Third FlotzLimestone, his Old and
Red Sandstone, were universal formations; and geolo­
gists looked upon it as their business to detect these
strata in other countries. Names were thus assigned to
the rocks of various parts of Europe, which created
immense perplexity before they were again ejected. The
geological terms which now prevail, for instance, those
of Smith, are for the most part not systematic, but are
borrowed from accidents, as localities, or popular names ;
as Oxford Clay and Combrash ; and hence they are not
liable to be thrust out on a change of system. On the
other hand we do not find sufficient reason to accept the
system of names of strata proposed by Mr. Conybeare in
the Introduction to the Geology of England and Wales,
according to which the Carboniferous Rocks are the
Medial Order,—having above them the Supermedial
Order {New Red Sand, Oolites and Chalk), and above
these the Superior Order ( Terand again,
—having below, the SvbmedialOrder (the Tra
Rocks), and the Inferior Order ( Slate, Gneiss,
Granite). For though these names have long been
proposed, it does not appear that they are useful in
enunciating geological truths. We may, it would seem,
pronounce the same judgment respecting the system of
geological names proposed by M. Alexander Brongniart,
in his Tableau des Terrains qui composent Fécorce du
Globe. He divides these strata into nine classes, which
he terms Terrains AUuviens, Pyrogenes, Clys-
miens, Yzemiens, Hemilysiens, Agalysiens, Plutoniques,
Volcaniques. These classes are again variously subdi­
vided: thus the Terrains Yzemiens are Thalassiques,
Pélagiques, and A
b
y
s
s
i
q
u
e
sa
nd the Abyssiques are
subdivided into Lias, Keuper,
Conckiliens, Pœ
Peneens, Rudimentaires, Entritiques, Houillers, Car-
bonifer8 and Gres Rouge Ancien. Scarcely any amount
6 1 8 APHORISMS CONCERNING
of new truths would induce geologists to burthen them­
selves at once with this enormous system of new names :
but in fact, it is evident that any portion of truth, which
any author can have brought to light, may be conveyed
by means of a much simpler apparatus. Such a nomen­
clature carries its condemnation on its own face.
Nearly the same may be said of the systematic nomen­
clature proposed for mineralogy by Professor Mohs.
Even if all his Genera be really natural groups, (a doc­
trine which we can have no confidence in till they are
confirmed by the evidence of chemistry,) there is no
necessity to make so great a change in the received
names of minerals. His proceeding in this respect, so
different from the temperance of Linnæus and Cuvier,
has probably ensured a speedy oblivion to this part of
his system. In crystallography, on the other hand, in
which Mohs's improvements have beenveryvaluable, there
are several terms introduced by him, as
scalenohedron, hemihedral,systems of cry
which will probably be a permanent portion of the lan­
guage of science.
I may remark, in general, that the only persons who
succeed in making great alterations in the language of
science, are not those who make names arbitrarily and
as an exercise of ingenuity, but those who have much
new knowledge to communicate; so that the vehicle is
commended to general reception by the value of what it
contains. It is only eminent discoverers to whom the
authority is conceded of introducing a new system of
names; just as it is only the highest authority in the
state which has the power of putting a new coinage in
circulation.
I will here quote some judicious remarks of Mr.
Howard, which fall partly under this Aphorism, and
partly under some which follow. He had proposed, as
THE LANGUAGE OF SCIENCE. 5 1 9
names for the kinds of clouds, the following: Cirrus,
Cirrocumulus, Cirrostratus,Cumulostratus, Cumul
Nimbus, Stratus. In an abridgment of his views, given
in the Supplement to the
English names were proposed as the equivalents of
these; Curldoud,Sonderclmd, Wanecloud,
Stackencloud, Raindoud, FaUdoud. Upon these Mr.
Howard observes: “I mention these, in order to have
the opportunity of saying that I do not adopt them.
The names for the clouds which I deduced from the
Latin, are but seven in number, and very easy to re­
member. They were intended as arbitrary terms for
the structure of clouds, and the meaning of them was
carefully fixed by a definition. The observer having
once made himself master of this, was able to apply the
term with correctness, after a little experience, to the
subject under all its varieties of form, colour, or position.
The new names, if meant to be another set of arbitrary
terms, are superfluous; if intended to convey in them­
selves an explanation in English, they fail in this, by
applying to some part or circumstance only of the defi­
nition ; the nhole of which must be kept in view to study
the subject with success. To take for an example the
first of the modifications. The term cirrus very readily
takes an abstract meaning, equally applicable to the
rectilinear as to the flexuous forms of the subject. But
the name of curl-doud w
ill not, without some violence
to its obvious sense, acquire this more extensive one:
and will therefore be apt to mislead the reader rather
than further his progress. Others of these names are as
devoid of a meaning obvious to the English reader, as
the Latin terms themselves. But the principal objection
to English or any other local terms, remains to be stated.
They take away from the nomenclature its general ad­
vantage of constituting, as far as it goes, an universal
520 APHORISMS CONCERNING
language, by means of which the intelligent of every
country may convey to each other their ideas without
the necessity of translation.”
I here adduce these as examples of the arguments
against changing an established nomenclature. As
grounds of selecting a new one, they may be taken into
account hereafter.
A p h o r is m XI.
Terms which imply theoretical views are admissible, as
fa r as the theory is proved.
It is not unfrequently stated that the circumstances
from which the names employed in science borrow their
meaning, ought to be facts and not theories. But such
a recommendation implies a belief that facts are rigor­
ously distinguished from theories and directly opposed
to them; which belief, we have repeatedly seen, is un­
founded. When theories are firmly established, they
become facts; and names founded on such theoretical
views are unexceptionable. If we speak of the minor
axis of Jupiter’s orbit, or of his density, or of the angle
Of refraction, or the length of an undulation of red light,
we assume certain theories; but inasmuch as the theories
are now the inevitable interpretation of ascertained facts,
we can have no better terms to designate the conceptions
thus referred to. And hence the rule which we must
follow is, not that our terms must involve no theory,
but that they imply the theory only in that sense in
which it is the interpretation of the facts.
For example, the term polarization of light was
objected to, as involving a theory. Perhaps the term
was at first suggested by conceiving light to consist of
particles having poles turned in a particular manner.
But among intelligent speculators, the notion of polar-
THE LANGUAGE OF SCIENCE. 521
ization soon reduced itself to the simple conception of
opposite properties in opposite positions, which is a bare
statement of the fact: and the term being understood
to have this meaning, is a perfectly good term, and
indeed the best which wr
e can imagine for designating
what is intended.
I need hardly add the caution, that names involving
theoretical views not in accordance with facts are to be
rejected. The following instances exemplify both the
positive and the negative application of this maxim.
The distinction of primary and secondary rocks in
geology was founded upon a theory; namely, that those
which do not contain any organic remains were first
deposited, and afterwards, those which contain plants
and animals. But this theory was insecure from the
first. The difficulty of making the separation which it
implied, led to the introduction of a class of transition
rocks. And the recent researches of geologists lead
them to the conclusion, that those rocks which are
termed primanjymay be the newest, not the oldest, pro­
ductions of nature.
In order to avoid this incongruity, other terms have
been proposed as substitutes for these. Mr. Lyell re­
marks*, that granite, gneiss, and the like, form a class
which should be designated by a common name; which
name should not be of chronological import. He pro­
poses hypogene,signifying “ uether-form edand thus
he adopts the theory that they have not assumed their
present form and structure at the surface, but determines
nothing of the period when they were produced.
These hypogene rocks, again, he divides into unstra­
tified or plutonic,and altered, stratified, or metamorphic;
the latter term implying the hypothesis that the stratified
rocks to which it is applied have been altered, by the
* Princ. G
e
o
., iv. 386.
522 APHORISMS CONCERNING
effect of fire or otherwise, since they were deposited.
That fossiliferous strata, in some cases at least, hare
undergone such a change, is demonstrable from facts*.
The modern nomenclature of chemistry implies the
oxygen theory of chemistry. Hence it has sometimes
been objected to. Thus Davy, in speaking of the Lavoi-
sierian nomenclature, makes the following remarks,
which, however plausible they may sound, will be found
to be utterly erroneousf. “ Simplicity and precision
ought to be the characteristics of a scientific nomencla­
ture : words should signify things, or the analogies of
things, and not opinions. . . . A substance in one age
supposed to be simple, in another is proved to be com­
pound, and vice versâ. A theoretical nomenclature is
liable to continual alterations : oxygenated muriatic acid
is as improper a term as dephlogisticated marine add.
Every school believes itself to be in the right: and if
every school assumes to itself the liberty of altering the
names of chemical substances in consequence of nevr
ideas of their composition, there can be no permanency
in the language of the science ; it must always be con­
fused and uncertain. Bodies which are similar to each
other should always be classed together ; and there is a
presumption that their composition is analogous. Metals,
earths, alkalis, are appropriate names for the bodies
they represent, and independent of all speculation :
whereas oxides, mlphurets, and mudates are terms
founded upon opinions of the composition of bodies,
some of which have been already found erroneous. The
least dangerous mode of giving a systematic form to a
language seems to be to signify the analogies of sub­
stances by some common sign affixed to the beginning
or the termination of the word. Thus as the metals
have been distinguished by a termination in um, as
* Etait. G
e
o
l
;
p. 17- + Elements of Chan. p. 40.
THE LANGUAGE OF SCIENCE. 523
aurum, so their calciform or oxidated state might have
been denoted by a termination in as : and no
progress, however great, in the science could render
it necessary that such a mode of appellation should be
changed.”
These remarks are founded upon distinctions which
have no real existence. We cannot separate things
from their properties, nor can we consider their pro­
perties and analogies in any other way than by having
opinions about them. By contrasting analogies with
opinions, it might appear as if the author maintained
that there were certain analogies about which there was
no room for erroneous opinions. Yet the analogies of
chemical compounds, are, in fact, those points which
have been most the subject of difference of opinion, and
on which the revolutions of theories have most changed
toen’s views. As an example of analogies which are still
recognized under alterations of theory, the writer gives
the relation of a metal to its oxide or calciform state.
But this analogy of metallic oxides, as Red Copper or
Iron Ore, to Calx, or burnt lime, is very far from being
self-evident;—so far indeed, that the recognition of the
analogy was a great step in chemical theory. The terms
which he quotes, oxygenated muriatic acid (and the
same may be said of dephlogisticated marine acid,) if
improper, are so not because they involve theory, but
because they involve false theory;—not because those
who framed them did not endeavour to express analo­
gies, but because they expressed analogies about which
they were mistaken. Unconnected names, as metals,
earths, alkalis, are good as the basis of a systematic
nomenclature, but they are not substitutes for such a
nomenclature. A systematic nomenclature is an instru­
ment of great utility and power, as the modern history
of chemistry has shown. It would be highly unphiloso-
524 APHORISMS CONCERNING
phical to reject the use of such an instrument, because,
in the course of the revolutions of science, we may have
to modify, or even to remodel it altogether. Its utility
is not by that means destroyed. It has retained, trans­
mitted, and enabled us to reason upon, the doctrines of
the earlier theory, so far as they are true ; and when
this theory is absorbed into a more comprehensive one,
(for this, and not its refutation, is the end of a theory so
far as it is true,) the nomenclature is easily translated
into that which the new theory introduces. We have
seen, in the history of astronomy, how valuable the theory
of epicycles was, in its time : the nomenclature of the re­
lations of a planet’s orbit, which that theory introduced,
was one of Kepler’s resources in discovering the ellip­
tical theory ; and, though now superseded, is still readily
intelligible to astronomers.
This is not the place to discuss the reasons for the
foi'm of scientific terms; otherwise we might ask, in
reference to the objections to the Lavoisierian nomen­
clature, if such forms as aurum and aura are good to
represent the absence or presence of oxygen, why such
forms as sulphite and sulphate are not equally good to
represent the presence of what we may call a smaller or
larger dose of oxygen, so long as the oxygen theory is
admitted in its present form; and to indicate still the
difference of the same substances, if under any change
of theory it should come to be interpreted in a new
manner.
But I do not now dwell upon such arguments, my
object in this place being to show that terms involving
theory are not only allowable, if understood so far as
the theory is proved, but of great value, and indeed of
indispensable use, in science. The objection to them is
inconsistent with the objects of science. If, after all that
has been done in chemistry or any other science, we have
THE LANGUAGE OF SCIENCE. 5 2 5
arrived at no solid knowledge, no permanent truth;—
if all that we believe now may be proved to be false to­
morrow;—then indeed our opinions and theories are
corruptible elements, on which it would be unwise to
rest any thing important, and which we might wish to
exclude, even from our names. But if our knowledge
has no more security than this, we can find no reason
why we should wish to have names of things, since the
names are needed mainly that we may reason upon and
increase our knowledge such as it is. If we are con­
demned to endless alternations of varying opinions, then,
no doubt, our theoretical terms may be a source of con­
fusion ; but then, where would be the advantage of their
being otherwise? what would be the value of words
which should express in a more precise manner opinions
equally fleeting? It will perhaps be said, our terms
must express facts, not theories: but of this distinction
so applied we have repeatedly shown the futility. Theo­
ries firmly established are facts. Is it not a fact that
the rusting of iron arises from the metal combining
with the oxygen of the atmosphere? Is it not a fact
that a combination of oxygen and hydrogen produces
water? That our terms should express such facts, is
precisely what we are here inculcating.
Our examination of the history of science has led us
to a view very different from that which represents it as
consisting in the succession of hostile opinions. It is, on
the contrary, a progress, in which each step is recognized
and employed in the succeeding one. Every theory, so
far as it is true, (and all that have prevailed extensively
and long, contain a large portion of truth,) is taken up
into the theory which succeeds and seems to expel it.
All the narrower inductions of the first are included in
the more comprehensive generalizations of the second.
And this is performed mainly by means of such terms
5 2 6 APHORISMS CONCERNING
as we are now considering;—terms involving the pre­
vious theory. It is by means of such terms, that the
truths at first ascertained become so familiar and man­
ageable, that they can be employed as elementary facts
in the formation of higher inductions.
These principles must be applied also, though with
great caution, and in a temperate manner, even to
descriptive language. Thus the mode of describing the
forms of crystals adopted by Werner and Romd de l’lsle
was to consider an original form, from which other forms
are derived by truncations of the edges and the angles.
Haiiy’s method of describing the same forms, was to
consider them as built up of rows of small solids, the
angles being determined by the decrements of these
rows. Both these methods of description involve hypo­
thetical views; and the last was intended to rest on a
true physical theory of the constitution of crystals. Both
hypotheses are doubtful or false: yet both these methods
are good as modes of description: nor is Haiiy’s termi­
nology vitiated, if we suppose (as in fact we must sup­
pose in many instances,) that crystalline bodies are not
really made up of such small solids. The mode of
describing an octahedron of fluor spar, as derived from
the cube, by decrements of one row on all the edges,
would still be proper and useful as a description, what­
ever judgment we should form of the material structure
of the body. But then, we must consider the solids
which are thus introduced into the description as merely
hypothetical geometrical forms, serving to determine
the angles of the faces. It is in this way alone that
Haiiy’s nomenclature can now be retained.
In like manner we may admit theoretical views into
the descriptive phraseology of other parts of Natural
History: and the theoretical terms will replace the
obvious images, in proportion as the theory is generally
THE LANGUAGE OF SCIENCE. 5 2 7
accepted and familiarly applied. For example, in speak­
ing of the Honeysuckle, we may say that the upper
leaves are '
p
e
r
f
o
l
i
a
t
e, meaning that a single orbicular
leaf is perforated by the stalk, or threaded upon it.
Here is an image which sufficiently conveys the notion
of the form. But it is now generally recognized that
this apparent single leaf is, in fact, two opposite leaves
joined together at their bases. If this were doubted, it
may be proved by comparing the upper leaves with the
lower, which are really separate and opposite. Hence
the term connate is applied to these conjoined opposite
leaves, implying that they grow together; or they are
called connato-perfoliate. Again; formerly the corolla
was called monopetalous or polypetalous, as it consisted
of one part or of several : but it is now agreed among
botanists that those corollas which appear to consist of
a single part, are, in fact, composed of several soldered
together ; hence the term gamopetalom is now employed
(by Decandolle and his followers) instead of monopeta­
lous *.
In this way the language of Natural History not only
expresses, but inevitably implies, general laws of nature ;
and words are thus fitted to aid the progress of know­
ledge in this, as in other provinces of science.
A p h o r is m XII.
I f terms are systematically good, they are not to he re­
jected because they are etymologically inaccurate.
T e r m s belonging to a system are defined, not by the
meaning of their radical words, but by their place in the
system. That they should be appropriate in their signi­
* On this subject, see Illiger, Versuch einer Systematischen Voll­
ständigen Terminologie fü r das Thierreich und Pflanzenreich. (1810.)
D e Candolle, Théorie Elémentaire de la Botanique.
5 2 8 APHORISMS CONCERNING
fication, aids the processes of introducing and remem­
bering them, and should therefore be carefully attended
to by those who invent and establish them; but this
once done, no objections founded upon their etymo­
logical import are of any material weight. We find no
inconvenience in the circumstance that geometry means
the measuring of the earth, that the name porphyry is
applied to many rocks which have no fiery spots, as the
word implies, and oolite to strata which have no roelike
structure. In like manner, if the term pcecilite were
already generally received, as the name of a certain
group of strata, it would be no valid ground for quar­
reling with it, that this group was not always variegated
in colour, or that other groups were equally variegated:
although undoubtedly in introducing such a term, care
should be taken to make it as distinctive as possible.
It often happens, as we have seen, that by the natural
progress of changes in language, a word is steadily con­
firmed in a sense quite different from its etymological
import. But though we may accept such instances, we
must not wantonly attempt to imitate them. I say, not
wantonly: for if the progress of scientific identification
compel us to follow any class of objects into circum­
stances where the derivation of the term is inapplicable,
we may still consider the term as an unmeaning sound,
or rather an historical symbol, expressing a certain
member of our system. Thus if, in following the course
of the mountain or carboniferous limestone, we find
that in Ireland it does not form mountains nor coutain
coal, we should act unwisely in breaking down the
nomenclature in which our systematic relations are
already expressed, in order to gain, in a particular case,
a propriety of language which has no scientific value.
All attempts to act upon the maxim opposite to this,
and to make our scientific names properly descriptive of
THE LANGUAGE OF SCIENCE. 5 2 9
the objects, have failed and must fail. For the marks
which really distinguish the natural classes of objects,
are by no means obvious. The discovery of them is one
of the most important steps in science; and when they
are discovered, they are constantly liable to exceptions,
because they do not contain the essential differences of
the classes. The natural order in order to
be a natural order, must contain some plants which have
not umbels, as E
r
y
n
g
i
u
m
*
.“In such cases,” said Lin­
naeus, “ it is of small import what you the order, if
you take a proper series of plants, and give it some name
which is clearly understood to apply to the plants you
have associated.” “ I have,” he adds, “ followed the rule
of borrowing the name d fortioi'i, from the principal
feature.”
The distinction of crystals into systems according to
the degree of symmetry which obtains in them, has been
explained elsewhere. Two of these systems, of which
the relation as to symmetry might be expressed by say­
ing that one is square •pyramidal and the other oblong
pyramidal, or the first square pinsmatic and the second
oblong prismatic, are termed by Mohs, the first,
midal, and the second Prismatic. And it may be
doubted whether it is worth while to invent other terms,
though these are thus defective in characteristic signi­
ficance. As an example of a needless rejection of old
terms in virtue of a supposed impropriety in their mean­
ing, I may mention the attempt made in the last edition
of Hatty’s Mineralogy, to substitute autopside and heter-
opside for metallic and unmetallic. It was supposed to
be proved that all bodies have a metal for their basis;
and hence it was wished to avoid the term unmetallic.
But the words metallic and unmetallic may mean that
minerals seem metallic and unmetallic, just as well as
* See Hitt. Ind. SW., B. xvi, c. iv. sect. 5.
vol. ir. w. p. M M
5 3 0 APHORISMS CONCERNING
if they contained the element to imply this seem­
ing. The old names express all that the new express,
and with more simplicity, and therefore should not be
disturbed.
The maxim on which we are now insisting, that we
are not to be too scrupulous about the etymology of
scientific terms, may, at first sight, appear to be at vari­
ance with our Fourth Aphorism, that words used tech­
nically are to retain their common meaning as far as
possible. But it must be recollected, that in the Fourth
Aphorism we spoke of common words appropriated as
technical terms; we here speak of words constructed for
scientific purposes. And although it is, perhaps, impos­
sible to draw a broad line between these two classes of
terms, still the rule of propriety may be stated thus:
In technical terms, deviations from the usual meaning
of words are bad in proportion as the words are more
familiar in our own language. Thus we may apply the
term Cirrus to a cloud composed of filaments, even if
these filaments are straight; but to call such a cloud a
Curl cloud would be much more harsh.
Since the names of things, and of classes of things,
when constructed so as to involve a description, are con­
stantly liable to become bad, the natural classes shifting
away from the descriptive marks thus prematurely and
casually adopted, I venture to lay down the following
maxim.
A p h o r is m XIII.
Thefundamental terms of a system of Nomenclature may
be conveniently borrowed from casual or arbitrary
circumstances*.
• I may refer back to Book vui., chap, ii., sect. 6, for some further
remarks on Nomenclature. It will be seen, that besides the maxims of
botanical writers concerning names, to which reference is there made
THE LANGUAGE OF SCIENCE. 531
Fob instance, the names of plants, of minerals, and
ofgeological strata, may be taken from the places where
they occur conspicuously or in a distinct form; as Pa-
rietaria,Parnassia, C
h
a
l
c
e
d
o
n
y
, Arragonite, Silurian
system, Purbeck limestone. These names may be consi­
dered as at first supplying standards of reference; for in
order to ascertain whether any rock be Purbeck lime­
stone, we might compare it with the rocks in the Isle of
Purbeck. But this reference to a local standard is of
authority only till the place of the object in the system,
and its distinctive marks, are ascertained. It would not
some others are suggested by the considerations there offered espe­
cially these tw o:—
A phorism X III. (a).
The Binary method of Nomenclature (names by genus and species) is
the most convenient hitherto employed in Classification.
A phorism X III. (6). •
Numerical names in Classification are bad. For, besides that such
names offer nothing for the memory to take bold of, new discoveries
will probably alter the numeration, and make the names erroneous.
Thus, if we call the species of a genus 1, 2, 3, &c., a new species inter­
mediate between 1 and 2, 2 and 3, &c., cannot be put in its place
without deranging the numbers.
The geological term Trias, lately introduced to designate the group
consisting of the three members (Bunter Sandstein, Muschelkalk, and
Keuper) becomes improper if, as some geologists hold, two of these
members cannot be separated.
In like manner the names assigned by Mr. Rickman to the suc­
cessive styles of Gothic architecture in England,—Early English,
Decorated, and Perpendicular,—cannot be replaced by numerical desig­
nations, F irst Pointed, Second Pointed, Third Pointed. For—besides
that he who first distinctly establishes classes has the right of naming
them, and that Mr. Rickman's names are really appropriate and signi­
ficant—these new names would confound all meaning of language. W e
should not be able to divide Early English, or Decorated, or Perpen­
dicular into sub-styles;—for who could talk of First Second Pointed
and Second Second Pointed; and what should we call that pointed
stylo—the Transition from the Norman—which precedes the First
Pointed ?
M M 2
532 APIIORISMS CONCERNING
vitiate the above names, if it were found that the Par-
nassia does not grow on Parnassus; that Chalcedony is
not found in Chalcedon; or even that no
longer occurs in Arragon; for it is now firmly established
as a mineral species. Even in geology such a reference
is arbitrary, and may be superseded, or at least modified,
by a more systematic determination. Alpine limestone
is no longer accepted as a satisfactory designation of a
rock, now that we know the limestone of the Alps to be
of various ages.
Again, names of persons, either casually connected
with the object, or arbitrarily applied to it, may be em­
ployed as designations. This has been done most copi­
ously in botany, as for example, Nicotiana, ,
Fuchsia, Jungerm
annia,Lonicera. And Linnaeus has
laid down rules for restricting this mode of perpetuating
the memory of men, in the names of plants. Those
generic names, he says*, which have been constructed to
preserve the memory of persons who have deserved well
of botany, are to be religiously retained. This, he adds,
is the sole and supreme reward of the botanist’s labours,
and must be carefully guarded and scrupulously bestow­
ed, as an encouragement and an honour. Still more
arbitrary are the terms borrowed from the names of the
gods and goddesses, heroes and heroines of antiquity, to
designate new genera in those departments of natural
history in which so many have been discovered in recent
times as to weary out all attempts at descriptive nomen­
clature. Cuvier has countenanced this method. “ I have
had to frame many new names of genera and sub­
genera,” he saysf, “ for the sub-genera which I have
established were so numerous and various, that the
memory is not satisfied with numerical indications.
These I have chosen either so as to indicate some charac-
• Phil. Bot., 241. t Reyne An., p. 16.
THE LANGUAGE OF SCIENCE. 5 3 3
ter, or among the usual denominations, which I have
latinized, or finally, after the example of Linnaeus,
among the names of mythology, which are in general
agreeable to the ear, and which are far from being ex­
hausted.”
This mode of framing names from the names of per­
sons to whom it was intended to do honour, has been
employed also in the mathematical and chemical sciences;
but such names have rarely obtained any permanence,
except when they recorded an inventor or discoverer.
Some of the constellations, indeed, have retained such
.appellations, as Berenices H air; and the new star
w'hich shone out in the time of Caesar, would probably
have retained the name given to it, of the Julian Star,
if it had not disappeared again soon after. In the map
of the Moon, almost all the parts have had such names
imposed upon them by those who have constructed such
maps, and these names have very properly been retained.
But the names of new planets and satellites thus suggest­
ed have not been generally accepted; as the Medicean
stars, the name employed by Galileo for the satellites of
Jupiter, the Georgium Sidus, the appellation proposed
by Herschel for Uranus when first discovered*; Ceres
Ferdinandea, the name which Piazzi wished to impose
* In this case, the name Uranus, selected with a view to symmetry
according to the mythological order of descent of the persons {Uranus,
Saturn, Jupiter, Mars) was adopted by astronomers in general, though
not proposed or sanctioned by the discoverer of the new planet. In the
cases of the smaller planets, Ceres, Pallas, Juno, and Vesta, the names
were given either by the discoverer, or with his sanction. Following
this rule, Bessel gave the name of Astrcea to a new planet discovered in
the same region by Mr. Hencke, as mentioned in Note (N) to Book vn.
of the History (2nd Ed.) Following the same rule, and adhering as
much as possible to mythological connexion, the astronomers of Europe
have, with the sanction of M. Lo Verrier, given the name of Neptune
to the planet revolving beyond Uranus, and discovered in consequence
of his announcement of its probable existence, which had been inferred
by
5 3 4 APHORISMS CONCERNING
on the small planet Ceres. The names given to astro­
nomical Tables by the astronomers who constructed them
have been most steadily adhered to, being indeed names
of books, and not of natural objects. Thus there were
th e Ilchajiic, the Alphonsine,the
linian Tables. Comets which have been ascertained to
be periodical, have very properly had assigned to them
the name of the person who established this point; and
of these we have thus, Halley s, Comet, and
Biela's or Gambart's Comet.
In the case of discoveries in science or inventions of
apparatus, the name of the inventor is very properly
employed as the designation. Thus we have the Torri­
cellian Vacuum, the Voltaic Pile, Fahrenheit's Ther­
mometer. And in the same manner with regard to laws
of nature, we have Keplers Laws, Boyle or law
of the elasticity of air, Huyghens's law of double refrac­
tion, Newton's scale of colours. Descartes' law of refrac­
tion is an unjust appellation; for the discovery of the law
of sines was made by Snell. In deductive mathematics,
where the invention of a theorem is generally a more
definite step than an induction, this mode of designation
is more common, as Demoivre's Theorem, Maclaurin's
Theorem, Lagrange's Theorem, Eulerian Integrals.
In the History of Science* I have remarked that in
the discovery of what is termed galvanism, Volta’s office
was of a higher and more philosophical kind than that
of Galvani; and I have, on this account, urged the pro­
priety of employing the term voltaic, rather than gal­
vanic electricity. I may add that the electricity of the
common machine is often placed in contrast with this,
by Mr. Adams and him (calculating in ignorance of each other’s pur­
pose) from the perturbations of Uranus; as I have stated in the Preface
to the Second Edition of the History.
• B. xm. c. 1.
THE LANGUAGE OF SCIENCE. 5 3 5
and appears to require an express name. Mr. Faraday
calls it common or machine electricity; but I think that
franklinic electricity would form a more natural corre­
spondence with voltaic, and would be well justified by
Franklin’s place in the history of that part of the sub­
ject.
A p h o r is m XIV.
In forming a Terminology, words may be invented
when necessary, but they cannot be conveniently bor­
rowedfrom casual or arbitrary *.
It will be recollected that Terminology is a language
employed for describing objects, Nomenclature, a body
of names of the objects themselves. The names, as was
stated in the last maxim, may be arbitrary; but the
descriptive terms must be borrowed from words of suit­
able meaning in the modern or the classical languages.
Thus the whole terminology which Linnaeus introduced
into botany, is founded upon the received use of Latin
words, although he defined their meaning so as to make
it precise when it was not so, according to Aphorism V.
But many of the terms were invented by him and other
botanists, as Perianth, Nectary, Pericarp; so many,
indeed, as to form, along with the others, a considerable
language. Many of the terms which are now become
familiar were originally invented by writers on botany.
Thus the word Petal, for one division of the corolla, was
introduced by Fabius Columna. The term Sepal was
devised by Neckar to express each of the divisions of
the calyx. And up to the most recent times, new deno­
* I may also refer to B. vm, c. ii. sect. 2, for some remarks on
Terminology. The following Aphorism contains one of the most
important maxims:—
A phorism XIV. (a).
The meaning of Technical Terras must be fixed by convention, not by
casual reference to the ordinary meaning of the words.
5 3 6 APHORISMS CONCERNING
ruinations of parts and conditions of parts have been
devised by botanists, when they found them necessary,
in order to mark important differences or resemblances.
Thus the general Receptacle of the flower, as it is termed
by Linnaeus, or Torus, by Salisbury, is continued into
organs which carry the stamina and pistil, or the pistil
alone, or the whole flower; this organ has hence been
termed* Gonophore, Carpophore, and Anthophore, in
these cases.
In like manner when Cuvier had ascertained that the
lower jaws of Saurians consisted always of six pieces
having definite relations of form and position, he gave
names to them, and termed them respectively the Dental,
the Angular, the Coronoid, the Articular, the Comple­
mentary, and the Opercular Bones.
In all these cases, the descriptive terms thus intro­
duced have been significant in their derivation. An
attempt to circulate a perfectly arbitrary word as a
means of description would probably be unsuccessful.
We have, indeed, some examples approaching to arbi­
trary designations, in the Wernerian names of colours,
which are a part of the terminology of Natural History.
Many of these names are borrowed from natural resem­
blances, as Auricula purple, Apple green, Straw yellow;
but the names of others are taken from casual occur­
rences, mostly, however, such as were already recognized
in common language, as Prusblue,
King's yellow.
The extension of arbitrary names in scientific termi­
nology is by no means to be encouraged. I may mention
a case in which it was very properly avoided. When M
r.
Faraday’s researches on Voltaic electricity had led him
to perceive the great impropriety of the term poles, as
applied to the apparatus, since the processes have not
* De Candolle’s Th. El., 405.
TILE LANGUAGE OF SCIENCE. 5 3 7
reference to any opposed points, but to two opposite
directions of a path, he very suitably wished to substi­
tute for the phrases positive pole and negative pole, two
words ending in ode, from ¿Sos, a way. A person who
did not see the value of our present maxim, that descrip­
tive terms should be descriptive in their origin, might
have proposed words perfectly arbitrary, as Alphode,
and Betode: or, if he wished to pay a tribute of respect
to the discoverers in this department ofscience,
ode and Voltaode. But such words would very justly
have been rejected by Mr. Faraday, and would hardly
have obtained any general currency among men of
science. Zincodeand Platinode, terms derived from
the metal which, in one modification of the apparatus,
forms what was previously termed the pole, are to be
avoided, because in their origin too much is casual; and
they are not a good basis for derivative terms. The pole
at which the zinc is, is the Anode or Cathode, according
as it is associated with different metals. Either the
Zincode must sometimes mean the pole at which the Zinc
is, and at other times that at which the Zinc is not, or
else we must have as many names for poles as there are
metals. Anode and Cathode, the terms which Mr. Fara­
day adopted, were free from these objections; for they
refer to a natural standard of the direction of the voltaic
current, in a manner which, though perhaps not obvious
at first sight, is easily understood and retained. «ode
and Cathode, the rising and the setting way, are the
directions which correspond to east and west in that
voltaic current to which we must ascribe terrestrial mag­
netism. And with these words it was easy to connect
Anion and Cathion, to designate the opposite elements
which are separated and liberated at the two Electrodes.
The following Aphorisms respect the Form of Tech­
nical Terms.
5 3 8 APHORISMS CONCERNING
By the Formof Terms, I mean their philol
conditions; as, for example, from what languages they
may be borrowed, by what modes of inflexion they must
be compounded, how their derivatives are to be formed,
and the like. In this, as in other parts of the subject,
I shall not lay down a system of rules, but shall propose
a few maxims.
A p h o r is m XV.
The two main conditions of the Form of technical terms
are, that they must he generally intelligible, and sus­
ceptible of such grammatical relations as their scien­
tific use requires.
T h e s e conditions may at first appear somewhat vague,
but it will be found that they are as definite as we could
make them, without injuriously restricting ourselves.
It will appear, moreover, that they have an important
bearing upon most of the questions respecting the form
of the words which come before us; and that if we can
succeed in any case in reconciling the two conditions, we
obtain terms which are practically good, whatever ob­
jections may be urged against them from other consider­
ations.
1. The former condition, for instance, bears upon
the question whether scientific terms are to be taken
from the learned languages, Greek and Latin, or from
our own. And the latter condition very materially
affects the same question, since in English we have
scarcely any power of inflecting our words; and there­
fore must have recourse to Greek or Latin in order to
obtain terms which admit of grammatical modification.
If we were content with the term Heat to express the
science of heat, still it would be a bad technical term,
for we cannot derive from it an adjective like thermoti-
cal. If bed or layer were an equally good term with
TIIE LANGUAGE OF SCIENCE. 5 3 9
stratum, we must still retain the latter, in order that we
may use the derivative Stratification, for which the Eng­
lish words cannot produce an equivalent substitute. We
may retain the words lime and flint, but their adjectives
for scientific purposes are not limy andflinty, but calca­
reous and siliceous; and hence we are able to form a
compound, as calcareo-siliceous,which we could not d
with indigenous words. We might fix the phrases bent
back and broken to mean (of optical rays) that they are
reflected and refracted; but then we should have no
means of speaking of the angles of Reflection and Re­
fraction, of the Refractive Indices, and the like.
In like manner, so long as anatomists described cer­
tain parts of a vertebra as vertebral lamina:, or vertebral
plates, they had no adjective whereby to signify the
properties of these parts; the term Neurapophysis,
given to them by Mr. Owen, supplies the corresponding
expression neurapophysial. So again, the term Basi-
sphenoid, employed by the same anatomist, is better
than basilar or basial process of the sphenoid, because it
gives us the adjective basisphenoidal. And the like
remark applies to other changes recently proposed in the
names of portions of the skeleton.
Thus one of the advantages of going to the Greek
and Latin languages for the origin of our scientific terms
is, that in this way we obtain words which admit of the
formation of adjectives and abstract terms, of compo­
sition, and of other inflexions. Another advantage of
such an origin is, that such terms, if well selected, are
readily understood over the whole lettered world. For
this reason, the descriptive language of science, of botany
for instance, has been, for the most part, taken from the
Latin; many of the terms of the mathematical and
chemical sciences have been derived from the Greek;
and when occasion occurs to construct a new term, it is
5 4 0 APHORISMS CONCERNING
generally to that language that recourse is had. The
advantage of such terms is, as has already been inti­
mated, that they constitute an universal language, by
means of which cultivated persons in every country m
ay
convey to each other their ideas without the need of
translation.
On the other hand, the advantage of indigenous terms
is, that so far as the language extends, they are intelligi­
ble much more clearly and vividly than those borrowed
from any other source, as well as more easily manageable
in the construction of sentences. In the descriptive
language of botany, for example, in an English work,
the terms drooping, nodding, one-sided, twining, strag­
gling, appear better than cernuous, secund, -
bile, divaricate. For though the latter terms may by
habit become as intelligible as the former, they cannot
become more so to any readers; and to most English
readers they will give a far less distinct impression.
2. Since the advantage of indigenous over learned
terms, or the contrary, depends upon the balance of the
capacity of inflexion and composition on the one hand,
against a ready and clear significance on the other, it is
evident that the employment of scientific terms of the
one class or of the other may very properly be extremely
different in different languages. The German possesses
in a very eminent degree that power of composition and
derivation, which in English can hardly be exercised at
all, in a formal manner. Hence German scientific writers
use native terms to a far greater extent than do our own
authors. The descriptive terminology of botany, and even
the systematic nomenclature of chemistry, are repre­
sented by the Germans by means of German roots and
inflexions. Thus the description of Potentilla anserina,
in English botanists, is that it has Leaves interruptedly
pinnate, serrate, silky, stem creeping, stalks axillar, -
THE LANGUAGE OF SCIENCE. 5 41
flowered. Here we have words of Saxon and Latin origin
mingled pretty equally. But the German description is
entirely Teutonic. Die Blume in Achsel; die Blätter
unterbrochen gefiedert, die Blättchen scharf gesagt, die
Stämme kriechend, die Bluthenstiele einblumig. We could
imitate this in our own language, by saying brokenly-fea­
thered, sharp-sawed; by using threed for ternate, as the
Germans employ gedreit; by saying fingered-feathered
for digitato-pinnate, and the like. But the habit which
we have, in common as well as scientific language, of
borrowing words from the Latin for new cases, would
make such usages seem very harsh and pedantic.
We may add that, in consequence of these different
practices in the two languages, it is a common habit of
the German reader to impose a scientific definiteness
upon a common word, such as our Fifth Aphorism re­
quires ; whereas the English reader expects rather that
a word which is to have a technical sense shall be derived
from the learned languages. Die Kelch and die Blume
(the cup and the flower) easily assume the technical
meaning of calyx and corolla; die Griffel (the pencil)
becomes the pistil ; and a name is easily found for the
pollen, the anthers, and the stamens, by calling them the
dust, the dust-cases, and the dust-threads (der Staub, die
Staub-beutal, or Staub-fächer, and die Staubfäden). This
was formerly done in English to a greater extent than
is now possible without confusion and pedantry. Thus,
in Grew’s book on the Anatomy of Plants, the calyx is
called the impalement, and the sepals the impalers; the
petals are called the leaves of the flower; the stamens
with their anthers are the seminiform attire. But the
English language, as to such matters, is now less flexible
than it was; partly in consequence of its having adopted
the Linnaean terminology almost entire, without any
eudeavour to naturalize it. Any attempt at idiomatic
5 4 2 APnORISMS CONCERNING
description would interfere with the scientific language
now generally received in this country. In Germany, on
the other hand, those who first wrote upon science in their
own language imitated the Latin words which they found
in foreign writers, instead of transferring new roots into
their own language. Thus the Numerator and Denomi­
nator of a fraction they call the Namer and the Counter
{Nenner and Z
ä
h
l
e
r) . This course they pursued ev
where the expression was erroneous. Thus that portion
of the intestines which ancient anatomists called Duode­
num, because they falsely estimated its length at twelve
inches, the Germans also term (twelve-
inch-gut), though this intestine in a whale is twenty feet
long, and in a frog not above twenty lines. As another
example of this process in German, we may take the
word Muttersackbauchhlatte, the uterine peritonaeum.
It is a remarkable evidence of this formative power
of the German language, that it should have been able
to produce an imitation of the systematic chemical
nomenclature of the French school, so complete, that it
is used in Germany as familiarly as the original system
is in France and England. Thus Oxygen and Hydrogen
are Sauerstoff and Wafferstoff; Azote is Stickstoff (suffo­
cating matter); Sulphuric and Sulphurous Acid are
Schwefelsäure and Schwefelichte-säThe S
and Sulphite of Baryta, and Sulphuret of Baryum, are
Schwefel-säure Baryterde, Schwefelichte-säure Bary­
terde, and Schwefel-baryum. Carbonate of Iron is Koh-
lensäures E i s e n o x y d u l ;and we may
such cases, the German name is much more agreeable to
analogy than the English one; for the Protoxide of Iron,
{Eisenoxydul,) and not the Iron itself, is the base of the
salt. And the German language has not only thus imi­
tated the established nomenclature of chemistry, but has
shown itself capable of supplying new forms to meet the
Digitized by Googk
THE LANGUAGE OF SCIENCE. 5 4 3
demands which the progress of theory occasions. Thus
the Hydracids are W
a
s
s
e
r
s
t
o
f
f
-
s
a
u
r
e
n;and of these, the
Hydriodic Acid is Iodmasserstoff-saand so of
rest. In like manner, the translator of Berzelius has
found German names for the sulpho-salts of that che­
mist ; thus he has Wasserstoff
lithium,which would be (if we were to adopt his theo­
retical view,) hydro-sulphuret of sulphuret of lithium:
and a like nomenclature for all other similar cases.
3. In English we have no power of imitating this
process, and must take our technical phrases from some
more flexible language, and generally from the Latin or
Greek. We are indeed so much accustomed to do this,
that except a word has its origin in one of these lan­
guages, it hardly seems to us a technical term; and thus
by employing indigenous terms, even descriptive ones,
we may, perhaps, lose in precision more than we gain
in the vividness of the impression. Perhaps it may be
better to say cuneate, lunate, hastate, sagittate,
form, than medge-shaped, crescent-shaped, halbert-headed,
arrow-headed, kidney-shaped. Ringent and personate
are better than any English words which we could sub­
stitute for them; labiate is more precise than lipped
would readily become. Urceolate, trochlear, are more
compact than pitcher-shaped, pulley-shaped; and infun-
dibuli/orm, hypocrateri/orm, though long words, are not
more inconvenient thanfunnel-shaped and
In the same way it is better to speak (with Dr. Prichard*,)
of repent and progressive animals, than of creeping and
progressive: the two Latin terms make a better pair of
correlatives.
4. But wherever we may draw the line between the
proper use of English and Latin terms in descriptive
phraseology, we shall find it advisable to borrow almost
all other technical terms from the learned languages.
* Researches, p. CD.
5 4 4 APnORISMS CONCERNING
We have seen this in considering the new terms intro­
duced into various sciences in virtue of our Ninth
Maxim. We may add, as further examples, the names
of the various animals of which a knowledge has been
acquired from the remains of them which exist in vari­
ous strata, and which have been reconstructed by Cuvier
and his successors. Such are the the
A noplotherium, the Megatherium, the , the
Chirotherium, the Megalichthys,the Masto
thyosaurus, the Plesiosaurus, the Pterodaclylus. To
these others are every year added; as, for instance, very
recently, the Toxodon, Z
e
u
g
l
o
d
o
, and Phaseol
of Mr. Owen, and the Thylacotherium of M. Valen­
ciennes. Still more recently the terms My-
lodon, Diq/nodon, Paloplotherium,Rhyncho
been added by Mr. Owen to designate fossil animals
newly determined by him.
The names of species, as well as of genera, are
thus formed from the Greek: as the Plesiosaurus doli-
chodeirus, (long-necked), Ichthyosaurusplatyodon (broad­
toothed), the Irish elk, termed Cervus megaceros (large­
horned). But the descriptive specific names are also
taken from the Latin, as Plesiosaurus brevirostris, Ion-
girostris, ci'assirostris; besides which there are arbi­
trary specific names, which we do not here con­
sider.
These names being all constructed at a period when
naturalists were familiar with an artificial system, the
standard language of which is Latin» have not been
taken from modern language. But the names of living
animals, and even of their classes, long ago formed
in the common language of men, have been in part
adopted in the systems of naturalists, agreeably to
Aphorism Third. Hence the language of systems in
natural history is mixed of ancient and modern languages.
Thus Cuvier’s divisions of the vertebrated animals are
THE LANGUAGE OF SCIENCE. 5 4 5
Mammifères (Latin), Oiseaux, Reptiles, Poissons; B i­
manes, Quadrumanes, Carnassières, Rongeurs, Pachy­
dermes (Greek), Ruminans (Latin), Cétacés (Latin). In
the subordinate divisions the distribution being more
novel, the names are less idiomatic : thus the kinds of
Reptiles are Cheloniens, Sauriens, Ophidiens, Batra­
ciens, all which are of Greek origin. In like manner,
Fish are divided into Chondropte
giens, A canthopteiyglens. The unvertebrated animals
are Mollusques, Animaux articulés, and Animaux ra­
yonnés ; and the Mollusques are divided into six classes,
chiefly according to the position or form of their foot ;
namely, Céphalopodes, Pteropodes, Gastéropodes, Acé­
phales, Brachiopodes, Cirrhopodes.
In transferring these terms into English, when the
term is new in French as well as English, we have little
difficulty ; for we may take nearly the same liberties in
English which are taken in French ; and hence we may
say mammi/ers (rather mammals), cetaceans or cetaces,
batradans (rather batrachians),using the words a
stantives. But in other cases we must go back to the
Latin : thus we say radiate animals, or radíala (rather
radiais), for rayonnées. These changes, however, rather
refer to another Aphorism.
[Mr. Kirby has proposed Radiary, Radiarles, for
Radiola.']
5. When new Mineral Species have been established
in recent times, they have generally had arbitrary names
a signed to them, derived from some person or places.
In some instances, however, descriptive names have been
selected; and then these have been generally taken from
the Greek, as Augite, StiMte, Diaspore, Dichroite, Diop­
tase. Several of these Greek names imposed by Hatty,
refer to some circumstances, often fancifully selected, in
his view of the crystallization of the substance, as
VOL. ii. w . p . N n
5 4 6 APHORISMS CONCERNING
dote, Peridote, Pleonast. Similar terms of Greek origin
have been introduced by others, as Anorthite,
Periklin. Greek names founded on casual circum­
stances are less to be commended. Berzelius has termed
a mineral Eschynite,from
he conceives, a shame for chemists not to have separated
its elements more distinctly than they did at first.
6. In Botany, the old names of genera of Greek ori­
gin are very numerous, and many of them are descriptive,
as Glyeyrhiza (yXvidk and piXa, sweet root) liquorice,
Rhododendron (rose-tree), Hcematoxylon (bloody wood),
Chrysocoma (golden hair), Alopecurus (fox-tail), and many
more. In like manner there are names which derive
a descriptive significance from the Latin, either adjec­
tives, as Impatiens, Gloriosa, or substantives
irregularly formed, as Tussilagtussis
Urtica (ab urendo tactu), Salsola (k salsedine). But
these, though good names when they are established by
tradition, are hardly to be imitated in naming new plants.
In most instances, when this is to be done, arbitrary or
local names have been selected, as Strelitzia.
7. In Chemistry, new substances have of late had
names assigned them from Greek roots, as Iodine, from
its violet colour, Chlorine from its green colour. In
like manner fluorine has by the French chemists been
called Phthw,from its destructive properties. So th
new metals, Chrome, Rhodium, Iridium, Osmium, had
names of Greek derivation descriptive of their proper­
ties. Some such terms, however, were borrowed from
localities, as Strontia, Yttria, the names of new earths.
Others have a mixed origin, as
and Pyroligneous Spirit. In some cases the deviation
has been extravagantly capricious. Thus in the process
for making Pyrogallic Acid, a certain substance is left
behind, from which M. Braconnot extracted an acid
which he called EUagic Acid, framing the root of the
name by reading the word Galle backwards.
The new laws which the study of Electro-chemistry
brought into view, required a new terminology to express
their conditions : and in this case, as we have observed
in speaking of the Twelfth Maxim, arbitrary words are
less suitable. Mr. Faraday very properly borrowed
from the Greek his terms E,
Anode,
C a t h o d e ,Anion, Cathîon, Dielectric. In the mechanico-
chemical and mechanical sciences, however, new terms
are less copiously required than in the sciences of classi­
fication, and when they are needed, they are generally
determined by analogy from existing terms. Thermo­
electricity and Electro-dynamics were terms which very
naturally offered themselves ; Nobili’s thermo-midtiplier,
Snow Harris’s unit-jar, were almost equally obvious
names. In such cases, it is generally possible to con­
struct terms both compendious and descriptive, without
introducing any new radical words.
8. The subject ofCrystallography has inevitably given
rise to many new terms, since it brings under our notice
a great number of new relations of a very definite but
very complex form. Haüy attempted to find names for
all the leading varieties of crystals, and for this purpose
introduced a great number of new terms, founded on
various analogies and allusions. Thus the forms of calc-
spar are termed by him primitive, equiaxe, inverse,
métastatique, contrastante, imitable, pris­
matique, apophane, unitemaire, bisunitaire, dodécaèdre,
contractée, dilatée, sexduodedmale, bisalteme, binoter-
naire, and many others. The want of uniformity in the
origin and scheme of these denominations would be no
valid objection to them, if any general truth could be
expressed by means of them : but the fact is, that there
is no definite distinction of these forms. They pass into
NN *
THE LANGUAGE OF SCIENCE. 5 4 7
548 APHORISMS CONCERNING
each other by insensible gradations, and the optical and
physical properties which they possess are common to
all of them. And as a mere enunciation of law's of form,
this terminology is insufficient. Thus it does not at all
convey the relation between the bisaUeme and the bino-
temaire, the former being a combination of the métasta­
tique with t h e p
r
i
s
m
a
t
i
q
u
e
,the latter, of the métastatique
with the contrastante : again, the contrastante, the mixte,
the cuboide, the contractée, the dilatée, all contain faces
generated by a common law, the index being respectively
altered so as to be in these cases, 3 ,1» f b £; and this,
which is the most important geometrical relation of
these forms, is not at all recorded or indicated by the
nomenclature. The fact is, that it is probably impossible,
the subject of crystallography having become so complex
as it now is, to devise a system of names which shall
express the relations of form. Numerical symbols, such
as those of Weiss or Naumann, or Professor Miller, are
the proper ways of expressing these relations, and are
the only good crystallographic terminology for cases in
detail.
The terms used in expressing crystallographic laws
have been for the most part taken from the Greek by
all writers except some of the Germans. These, we have
already stated, have constructed terms in their own lan­
guage, as zmei-und-ein gliedrig, and the like.
In Optics we have some new terms connected with
crystalline laws, as uniaxal and crystals, optical
axes, which offered themselves without any effort on the
part of the discoverers. In the whole history of the
undulatory theory, very few innovations in language
were found necessary, except to fix the sense of a few
phrases, as planeqpolarizedlight in opposition to
cularly-polarized, and the like.
This is still more the case in Mechanics, Astronomy,
THE LANGUAGE OF SCIENCE. 5 4 9
and pure mathematics. In these sciences, several of the
primary stages of generalization being already passed
over, when any new steps are made, we have before us
some analogy by which we may frame our new terms.
Thus when the plane of maximum areas was discovered,
it had not some new arbitrary denomination assigned it,
but the name which obviously described it was fixed as
a technical name.
The result of this survey of the scientific terms of
recent formation seems to be this;—that indigenous
terms may be employed in the descriptions of facts and
phenomena as they at first present themselves; and in
the first induction from these; but that when we come
to generalize and theorize, terms borrowed from the
learned languages are more readily fixed and made defi­
nite, and are also more easily connected with derivatives.
Our native terms are more impressive, and at first more
intelligible; but they may wander from their scientific
meaning, and are capable of little inflexion. Words of
classical origin are precise to the careful student, and
capable of expressing, by their inflexions, the relations
of general ideas; but they are unintelligible, even to the
learned man, without express definition, and convey
instruction only through an artificial and rare habit of
thought.
Since in the balance between words of domestic and
of foreign origin so much depends upon the possibility
of inflexion and derivation, I shall consider a little more
closely what are the limits and considerations which we
have to take into account in reference to that subject.
Aphorism XVI.
In the composition and inflexion of technical terms, phi­
lological analogies are to he presetted if possible, but
modified according to scientific convenience.
5 5 0 APHORISMS CONCERNING
In the language employed or proposed by writers
upon subjects of science, many combinations and forms
of derivation occur, which would be rejected and con­
demned by those who are careful of the purity and cor­
rectness of language. Such anomalies are to be avoided
as much as possible; but it is impossible to escape them
altogether, if we are to have a scientific language which
has any chance of being received into general use. It is
better to admit compounds which are not philologically
correct, than to invent many new words, all strange to
the readers for whom they are intended: and in writing
on science in our own language, it is not possible to
avoid making additions to the vocabulary of common
life; since science requires exact names for many things
which common language has not named. And although
these new names should, as much as possible, be con­
structed in conformity with the analogies of the lan­
guage, such extensions of analogy can hardly sound, to
the grammarian’s ear, otherwise than as solecisms. But,
as our maxim indicates, the analogy of science is of more
weight with us than the analogy of language: and al­
though anomalies in our phraseology should be avoided
as much as possible, innovations must be permitted
wherever a scientific language, easy to acquire, and con­
venient to use, is unattainable without them.
I shall proceed to mention some of the transgressions
of strict philological rules, and some of the extensions of
grammatical forms, which the above conditions appear to
render necessary.
1. The combination of different languages in the
derivation of words, though to be avoided in general, is
in some cases admissible.
Such words are condemned by Quintilian and other
grammarians, under the name of hybrids, or things of a
mixed race; as triclinium, from bis and «rX/w}; epitogium,
THE LANGUAGE OF SCIENCE. 5 5 1
from e
i
r
'
ia
nd toga. Nor are such terms to be unneces­
sarily introduced in science. Whenever a homogeneous
word can be formed and adopted with the same ease and
convenience as a hybrid, it is to be preferred. Hence
we must have ichthyology, not piscology, entomology, not
insectology, insectivorous, not i n s e c l o p h a In like
manner, it would be better to say unoculus than -
cuius, though the latter has the sanction of Linnaeus,
who was a purist in such matters. Dr. Turner, in his
Chemistry, speaks of protoxides and which
combination violates the rule for making the materials
of our terms as homogeneous as possible; protoxide and
deutoxide would be preferable, both on this and on other
accounts.
Yet this rule admits of exceptions. Mineralogy, with
its Greek termination, has for its root minera, a medieval
Latin word ofTeutonic origin, and is preferable to Oryoto­
logy. Terminology appears to be better than Glossology:
which according to its derivation would be rather the
science of language in general than of technical terms;
and Horology, from opo%
, a term, would not be immedi­
ately intelligible, even to Greek scholars; and is already
employed to indicate the science which treats of horo­
loges, or time-pieces.
Indeed, the English reader is become quite familiar
with the termination ology, the names of a large number
of branches of science and learning having that form.
This termination is at present rather apprehended as a
formative affix in our own language, indicating a science,
than as an element borrowed from a foreign language.
Hence, when it is difficult or impossible to find a Greek
term which clearly designates the subject of a science, it
is allowable to employ some other, as in Tidology, the
doctrine of the Tides.
The same remark applies to some other Greek ele-
5 5 2 APHORISMS CONCERNING
ments of scientific words: they are so familiar to us that
in composition they are almost used as part of our own
language. This naturalization has taken place very de­
cidedly in the element arch, a leader,) as we see
in archbishop, archduke. It is effected in a great degree
for the preposition anti: thus we speak of anti-slavery
societies, anti-reformers, anti-bilious, or anti-add medi­
cines, without being conscious of any anomaly. The
same is the case with the Latin preposition pros or pre,
as appears from such words as pre-engage, pre-arrange,
pre-judge, pre-paid; and in some measure with pro, for
in colloquial language we speak of pro-catholics and
anti-catholics. Also the preposition ante is similarly
used, as ante-nicene fathers. The preposition co, abbre­
viated from con, and implying things to be simultaneous
or connected, is firmly established as part of the lan­
guage, as we see in coexist, coheir, hence
I have called those lines cotidal lines which pass through
places where the high water of the tide occurs simul­
taneously.
2. As in the course of the mixture by which our lan­
guage has been formed, we have thus lost all habitual
consciousness of the difference of its ingredients, (Greek,
Latin, Norman-French, and Anglo-Saxon): we have also
ceased to confine to each ingredient the mode of gram­
matical inflexion which originally belonged to it. Thus
the termination ire belongs peculiarly to Latin adjectives,
yet we say sportive, talkative. In like manner, able is
added to words which are not Latin, as eatable, drink­
able, pitiable, enviable. Also the termination al and ical
are used with various roots, as loyal, royal, farcical,
whimsical; hence we may make the adjective tidal from
tide. This ending, al, is also added to abstract terms in
ion, as occasional, p
r
o
v
i
s
i
o
n
a
l
, intentional, ;
hence we may, if necessary, use such words as educa-
THE LANGUAGE OF SCIENCE. 5 5 3
tional, terminational.The ending ic appears to be suited
to proper names, as Pindaric, Socratic, Platonic ; hence
it may be used when scientific words are derived from
proper names, as Voltaic or Galvanic electricity: to
which I have proposed to add Franklinic.
In adopting scientific adjectives from the Latin, we
have not much room for hesitation ; for, in such cases,
the habits of derivation from that language into our
own are very constant ; ivus becomes ire, as decursive ;
inus becomes ine, as in ferine; atus becomes ale, as
hastate; and us often becomes ous, as rufous; aris
becomes ary, as axillary ; ens becomes exit, as ringent.
And in adopting into our language, as scientific terms,
words which in another language, the French for instance,
have a Latin origin familiar to us, we cannot do better
than form them as if they tvere derived directly from the
Latin. Hence the French adjectives cétacê, crustacé,
testacé, may become either Cetaceous, crustaceous, testa­
ceous, according to the analogy of farinaceous, preda­
ceous, or else cetacean, crustacean, testacean, imitating
the form of p
a
t
r
i
c
i
a
n
.Since, as I shall soon have to
notice, we require substantives as well as adjectives from
these words, we must, at least for that use, take the
forms last suggested.
In pursuance of the Same remark, rougeur becomes
rodent ; and edentê would become edentate, but that this
word is rejected on another accoimt: the adjectives
bimane and quadrumane are bimanous and quadru-
manous.
3. There is not much difficulty in thus forming ad­
jectives: but the purposes of Natural History require
that we should have substantives corresponding to
these adjectives; and these cannot be obtained without
some extension of the analogies of our language. We
•cannot in general use adjectives or participles as singu-
5 5 4 APHORISMS CONCERNING
lar substantives. Thehapj)y or the doom
cording to good English usage, signify those who are
happy and those who are doomed. Hence we could not
speak of a particular scaled animal as the and
still less could we call any such animal a or
speak of squamatesin the plural. Some of the form
our adjectives, however, do admit of this substantive use.
Thus we talk of Europeans, plebeians, republicans; of
divines and masculines ; of the ultramontanes ; of mor­
dants and brilliants;of abstergents and of
mercenaries and tributaries ; of animals, manuals, and
officials; of dissuasives and motives. We cannot gene­
rally use in this way adjectives in ous, nor in ate (though
repi'obates is an exception), nor English participles, nor
adjectives in which there is no termination imitating the
Latin, as happy, good. Hence, if we have, for purposes
of science, to convert adjectives into substantives, we
ought to follow the form of examples like these, in
which it has already appeared in fact, that such usage,
though an innovation at first, may ultimately become a
received part of the language.
By attention to this rule we may judge what ex­
pressions to select in cases where substantives are
needed. I will take as an example the division of the
mammalian animals into Orders. These Orders, accord­
ing to Cuvier, are Bimanes, Quadrumanes, Carnassiers,
Rongeurs,Edentés,Ruminons, Pachydermes, and
of these, Bimanes,
Quadrumanes, Rodents, Ruminant
Pachyderms are admissible as English substantives on the
grounds just stated. Cetaceous could not be used sub­
stantively; but Cetacean in such a usage is sufficiently
countenanced by such cases as we have mentioned, patri­
cian, &c. ; hence we adopt this form. We have no Eng­
lish word equivalent to the French Carnassiers: the
English translator of Cuvier has not provided English
TUE LANGUAGE OF SCIENCE. 5 5 5
words for his technical terms ; but has formed a Latin
word, Camaria, to represent the French terms. From
this we might readily form Carmines; but it appears
much better to take the Linnæan name Ferae as our
root, from which we may take , substantive as
well as adjective ; and hence we call this order Ferines.
The word for which it is most difficult to provide a
proper representation, is E
d
e
n
t
Edentata : for, a
have said, it would be very harsh to speak of the order
as the Edentates ; and if we were to abbreviate the word
into edent, we should suggest a false analogy with rodent,
for as rodent is quod rodit, that which gnaws, edent
would be quod edit, that which eats. And even if we
were to take edent as a substantive, we could hardly
use it as an adjective : we should still have to say, for
example, the edentate form of head. For these reasons
it appears best to alter the form of the word, and to
call the Order the Edentals, which is quite allowable,
both as adjective and substantive.
[An objection might be made to this term, both in
its Latin, French and English form : namely, that the
natural group to which it is applied includes many species,
both existing and extinct, well provided with teeth. Thus
the armadillo is remarkable for the number of its teeth ;
the megatherium, for their complex structure. But the
analogy of scientific language readily permits us to fix,
upon the word edentata, a special meaning, implying the
absence of one particular kind of teeth, namely, incisive
teeth. Linnaeus called the equivalent order Bruta.
We could not apply in this case the term for
common language has already attached to the word a
wider meaning, too fixedly for scientific use to trifle
with it.]
There are several other words in ate about which
there is the same difficulty in providing substantive
5 5 6 APHORISMS CONCERNING
forms. Are we to speak of Vertebrates ? or would it
not be better, in agreement with what has been said
above, to call these Vertebrals, and the opposite class
Invertebrals?
There are similar difficulties with regard to the
names of subordinate portions of zoological classifica­
tion; thus the Ferines are divided by Cuvier into
Chéiroptères, Insectivores, Carnivores ; and these latter
into Plantigrades, Digitigrades, Amphibies, Marsu­
piaux. There is not any great harshness in natural­
izing these substantives as Chiropters, Insectivores, Car­
nivores, Plantigrades, Digitigrades, Amphibians, and
Marsupials. These words Carnivores and Insectivores
are better, because of more familiar origin, than Greek
terms ; otherwise we might, if necessary, speak of Zoo-
phagans and Entomophagans.
It is only with certain familiar adjectival termina­
tions, as ous and ate, that there is a difficulty in using
the word as substantive. When this can be avoided, we
readily accept the new word, as Pachydei'ms, and in like
manner MoUusks.
If we examine the names of the Orders of Birds, we
find that they are in Latin, Predatores or Accipitres,
Passeres, Scansores, Rasores or GaUinee, GraUatores,
Palmipedes and Anseres: Cuvier’s Orders are, Oiseaux
de Proie, Passereaux, Grimpeurs, Gallinacés, Echas­
siers, Palmipedes. These may be englished conveni­
ently as Predators, Passerines, Scansors, GaUinaceans,
(rather than Rasors,) Grallators, Palmipedans, [or
rather Palmipeds,like B
i
p
e
d
s]
. Scansors, Gralla
Rasors, are better, as technical terms, than Climbers,
Waders, and Scratchers. We might venture to anglicize
the terminations of the names which Cuvier gives to
the divisions of these Orders : thus the Predators are
the Diumals and the N
o
c
t
u
r
n
at
he Passerines
THE LANGUAGE OF SCIENCE. 5 5 7
the Dentirostres, the Fissirostresthe Coniro
Tenuirostres, and the Syndactyls: the word lustre show­
ing that the former termination is allowable. The
Scansors are not sub-divided, nor are the Gallinaceans.
The Grallators are Pressirostres, Cultrirostres, Macro­
dactyls. The Palmipeds are the , the
pens, the Totipalmes and the Lamdlirostres.
The next class of Vertebráis is the , and
these are either Chelonians, Saurians, or
Batrachiam. Cuvier writes but we prefer
the spelling to which the Greek word directs us.
The last or lowest class is the in which pro­
vince Cuvier has himself been the great systematise and
has therefore had to devise many new terms. Many of
these are ofGreek or Latin origin, and can be anglicized by
the analogies already pointed out, as
Malacopterygians, Lophobranchs, Plectognaths, Gymno-
donts, Sderoderms. Discoboles and Apodes may be Eng­
lish as well as French. There are other cases in which
the author has formed the names of Families, either by
forming a word in ides from the name of a genus, as
Gadoides, Gobioides,or by gallicizing the Latin name of
the genus, as Salmones from Salmo, Clupes from Clu-
pea, Esoces from Esox, Cyprins from Cyprinus. In these
cases Agassiz’s favourite form of names for families of
fishes has led English writers to use the words Gadoids,
Gobioids, Salmotwids, Clupeoids, Lucioids (for Esocés)
Cyprinoids, &c.There it a taint of hybridism in this
termination, but it is attended with this advantage, that
it has begun to be characteristic of the nomenclature of
family groups in the class Pisces. One of the orders of
fishes, co-ordinate with the Chondropterygians and the
Lophobranchs, is termed Osseux by Cuvier. It appears
hardly worth while to invent a substantive word for this,
5 5 8 APHORISMS CONCERNING
when BonyFishes is so simple a phrase, and may
readily be understood as a technical name of a syste­
matic order.
The Mollusks are the next Class; and these are
divided into Cephalopods, and the like.
The Gasteropods are Nudibranchs, In/erobranchs, -
branchs, Pectinibranchs, Scutibranchs, and Cydobranchs.
In framing most of these terms Cuvier has made hybrids
by a combination of a Latin word with branchiae, which
is the Greek name for the gills of a fish ; and has thus
avoided loading the memory with words of an origin not
obvious to most naturalists, as terms derived from the
Greek would have been. Another division of the Gaste­
ropods is Pulmonés, which we must make
In like manner the subdivisions of the Pectinibranchs
are the Trochoidansand Buccinoidans,
Buccinoldes). The A
c
é
p
h
a
l
e
s, another order of
lusks, may be Acephals in English.
After these comes the third grand division, A rticu­
lated Animals, and these are Annelidans, Crustaceans,
Arachnidans, and Insects. I shall not dwell upon the
names of these, as the form of English words which is
to be selected must be sufficiently obvious from the pre­
ceding examples.
Finally, we have the fourth grand division of animals,
the Rayonnés, or Radiata ; which, for reasons already
given, we may call Radiais, or Radiaries. These are Echi-
noderms, Intestinale, (or rather Entozoans,) Acalephes,
and Polyps. The Polyps, which are composite animals in
which many gelatinous individuals are connected so as to
have a common life, have, in many cases, a more solid
framework belonging to the common part of the animal.
This framework, of which coral is a special example, is
termed in French Polypier ; the word has been angli-
cized by the word polypary, after the analogy of aviaiy
and apiary. Thus Polyps are either Polyps Polypa­
ries or Naked Polyps.
Any common kind of Polyps has usually in the Eng­
lish language been called Polypus, the Greek termina­
tion being retained. This termination in us, however,
whether Latin or Greek, is to be excluded from the Eng­
lish as much as possible, on account of the embarass-
ment which it occasions in the formation of the plural.
For if we say Polypi the word ceases to be English,
while Polypuses is harsh: and there is the additional
inconvenience, that both these forms would indicate the
plural of individuals rather than of classes. If we were
to say, “ The Corallines are a Family of the Polypuses
mth Polypanes',' it would not at once occur to the
reader that the three last words formed a technical
phrase.
This termination us, which must thus be excluded
from the names of families, may be admitted in the
designation of genera; of animals, as Nautilus, Echinus,
Hippopotamus; and of plants, as Crocus, ,
Narcissus, Acanthus, Ranunculus, Fungus. The same
form occurs in other technical words, as Fucus, Mucus,
(Esophagus, Hydrocephalus, Callus, Calculus,
Foetus, Rodim, Focm, Apparatm. It is, however, ad­
visable to retain this form only in cases where it is
already firmly established in the language; for a more
genuine English form is preferable. Hence we say, with
Mr. Lyell, Icthyosaur, Plesiosaur, Pterodactyl. In like
manner Mr. Owen anglicizes the termination erium, and
speaks of the Anoplothere and Paleothere.
Since the wants of science thus demand adjectives
which can be used also as substantive names of classes,
this consideration may sometimes serve to determine our
selection of new terms. Thus Mr. Lyell’s names for the
THE LANGUAGE OF SCIENCE. 5 5 9
5G0 APHORISMS CONCERNING
Subdivisions of the tertiary strata, Pliocene, can
be used as substantives; but if such words as
Plioneous, had suggested themselves, they must have
been rejected, though of equivalent signification, as not
fulfilling this condition.
4. (a.) Abstract substantives can easily be formed
from adjectives: from electric we have electricity; from
galvanic, galvanism; from organic, organization; velo­
city, levity, gravity, are borrowed from Latin adjectives.
Caloric is familiarly used for the matter of heat, though
the form of the word is not supported by any obvious
analogy.
(b.)It is quite intolerable to have words regu­
larly formed, in opposition to the analogy which their
meaning offers; as when bodies are said to have
condnctibility or conducibility with regard to heat.
The bodies are conductiw, and their property is con­
ductivity.
(c.) The terminations ize (rather than ), ism, and
ist, are applied to words of all origins: thus we have to
pulverize, to colonize, Witticism, Heathenism, Journal­
ist, Tobacconist. Hence we may make such words when
they are wanted. As we cannot use physician for a cul­
tivator of physics, I have called him a Physicist. We
need very much a name to describe a cultivator of
science in general. I should incline to call him a
Scientist. Thus we might say, that as an Artist is a
Musician, Painter, or Poet, a Scientist is a Mathe­
matician, Physicist, or Naturalist.
(d.) Connected with verbs in ize, we have abstract
nouns in ization, aspolarization, crystallization. These
it appears proper to spell in English with z rather than
s ; governing our practice by the Greek verbal termina­
tion iX
tu which we imitate. But we must observe that
verbs and substantives in yse, {analyse,) belong to a
THE LANGUAGE OF SCIENCE. 5 6 1
different analogy, giving an abstract noun in and an
adjective ytic or ytical; ( analysanalytical).
Hence electrolyse is more proper than electrolyze*.
(e.) The names of many sciences end in ics after
the analogy of Mathematics, as Optics,
Mechanics. But these in most other languages, as in
our own formerly, have the singular form Optice, Op­
tique, Optik, O p t i c k :and though we now write
we make such words of the singular number: “ New­
ton’s Opticks is an example.” As, however, this con­
nexion in new words is startling, as when we say “ Ther­
mo-electrics is now much cultivated,” it appears better
to employ the singular form, after the analogy of Logic
and Rhetoric, when we have words to construct. Hence
we may call the science of languages Linguistic, as it is
called by the best German writers, for instance, William
von Humboldt.
5. In the derivation of English from Latin or Greek
words, the changes of letters are to be governed by the
rules which have generally prevailed in such cases. The
Greek oi and at, the Latin oe and ae, are all converted
into a simple e, as in Economy, Geodesy, penal, Cesar.
Hence, according to common usage, we should write phe­
nomena, not phenomena, paleontology, not paleontology,
miocene not raiocene, peklite not peklite. But in order
to keep more clearly in view the origin of our terms, it
may be allowable to deviate from these rules of change,
especially so long as the words are still new and unfami­
liar. Dr. Buckland speaks of the poikililic, not pecilitic,
group of strata: palaeontology is the spelling commonly
adopted; and in imitation of this I have written paloeti-
ology. The diphthong « was by the Latins changed into
i, as in Aristides; and hence this has been the usual
* I fear I have, in some of the preceding pages, neglected this
distinction.
VOL. I I. W . P . Oo
5 6 2 APHORISMS CONCERNING
form in English. Some recent authors indeed (Mr. Mit­
ford for instance) write Aristeides; but the former
appears to be the more legitimate. Hence we 'write
miocene, pliocene, not moiocene, pliocene. The Greek
v becomes y,and ov becomes u, in English as in Lati
crystal, colwre. The consonants « and x become c and
ch according to common usage. Hence we write crystal,
not chrystal, batraeAian, not batracian, cryolite, not ry-
olite. As, however, the letter c before e and differs
from k, which is the sound we assign to the Greek *, it
may be allowable to use k in order to avoid this confu­
sion. Thus, as we have seen, poiAilite has been used,
as well as pecilite. Even in common language some
authors write sAeptic, which appears to be better than
sceptic with our pronunciation, and is preferred by Dr.
Johnson. For the same reason, namely to avoid confu­
sion in the pronunciation, and also, in order to keep in
view the connexion with cathode, the elements of an
electrolyte which go to the anode and cathode respect­
ively may be termed the anion and catAion; although
the Greek would suggest cation, (k o t Iov).
6. The example of chemistry has shown that we
have in the terminations of words a resource of which
great use may be made in indicating the relations of
certain classes of objects: as sulphurous and sulphuric
acids; sulphates, sulphites, and sulpharcis. Since the
introduction of the artifice by the Lavoisierian school, it
has been extended to some new cases. The Chlort/M,
Fluorine, Bromine, Iodine, had their names put into that
shape in consequence of their supposed analogy: and for
the same reason have been termed Chlore, Phtore,
Brome, lode, by French chemists. In like manner, the
names of metals in their Latin form have been made to
end in um, as Osmium, Palladium; and hence it is bet­
ter to say Platinum, Molybdenum, than Platina, Molyb-
THE LANGUAGE OF SCIENCE. 563
dena. It has been proposed to term the basis of Boracic
acid Boron; and those who conceive that the basis of
Silica lias an analogy with Boron have proposed to term
it Silicon, while those who look upon it as a metal would
name it Silicinm. Selenium was so named when it was
supposed to be a metal: as its analogies are now ac­
knowledged to be of another kind, it would be desirable,
if the change w'ere not too startling, to term it Selen, as
it is in German. Phosphorus in like manner might be
Phosphnr, which would indicate its analogy with Sul-
phur.
The resource which terminations offer has been ap­
plied in other cases. The names of many species of
minerals end in lite,or ite, a
s S
Adolphe Brongniart, in order to form a name for a genus
of fossil plants, has given this termination to the name
of the recent genus which they nearly resemble, as Zam-
itesfrom Zamia, Lycopodffes from Lycopodium.
Names of different genera which differ in termination
only are properly condemned by Linnams *; as Alsine,
Alsinoides, Alsinella, Alsinastrum; for there is no defi­
nite relation marked by those terminations. Linnaeus
gives to such genera distinct names, Alsine, Bufonia,
Sagina, Elatine.
Terminations are well adapted to express definite
systematic relations, such as those of chemistry, but they
must be employed with a due regard to all the bearings
of the system. Davy proposed to denote the combi­
nations of other substances with chlorine by peculiar
terminations; using a
n
ef
or the smallest proportio
Chlorine, and a
n
e
af
or the larger, as Cupr Cxx^ranea.
In this nomenclature, common salt would be and
Chloride of Nitrogen would be Azotane. This sugges­
tion never found favour. It was objected that it was
• Pint:
Dot., 231.
002
5 6 4 APHORISMS CONCERNING
contrary to the Linnsean precept, that a specific name
must not be united to a generic as a termination. But
this was not putting the matter exactly on its right
ground; for the rules of nomenclature of natural history
do not apply to chemistry; and the Linnsean rule might
with equal propriety have been adduced as a condem­
nation of such terms as Sulphurous, Sulphuric. But
Davy’s terms were bad; for it does not appear that
Chlorine enters, as Oxygen does, into so large a portion
of chemical compounds, that its relations afford a key
to their nature, and may properly be made an element
in their names.
This resource, of terminations, has been abused,
wherever it has been used wantonly, or without a defi­
nite significance in the variety. This is the case in
M. Beudant’s Mineralogy. Among the names which he
has given to new species, we find the following (besides
many in ite), Scolexerosc, Opsimosc, Exanthelosc, &c.;
Diacrasc, Panabasc, Neoplasc; Neoclcsc; Rhodoisc, Sti-
bico nise, &c.; Marcelzwc, Whilelminc, &c.; Exited, and
many others. In addition to other objections which
might be made to these names, their variety is a mate­
rial defect: for to make this variety depend on caprice
alone, as in those cases it does, is to throw away a
resource of which chemical nomenclature may teach us
the value.
Aphorism XVII.
When alterations in technical terms become necessary,
it is desirable that the new term should contain in
its form some memorial o f the old one.
W e have excellent examples of the advantageous use
of this maxim in Linnaeus’s reform of botanical nomen­
clature. His innovations were very extensive, but they
THE LANGUAGE OF SCIENCE. 565
were still moderated as much as possible, and connected
in many ways with the names of plants then in use. He
has himself given several rules of nomenclature, which
tend to establish this connexion of the old and new in
a reform. Thus he says, “ Generic names which are
current, and are not accompanied with harm to botany,
should be tolerated*.” “ A passable generic name is not
to be changed for another, though more aptf.” “New
generic names are not to be framed so long as passable
synonyms are at handj.” “ A generic name of one
genus, except it be superfluous, is not to be transferred
to another genus, though it suit the other better ÿ.” “ If
a received genus requires to be divided into several, the
name which before included the whole, shall be applied
to the most common and familiar kind ||.” And though
he rejects all generic names which have not a Greek
or Latin root^f, he is willing to make an exception in
favour of those which from their form might be sup­
posed to have such a root, though they are really bor­
rowed from other languages, as Thea, which is the Greek
for goddess ; C
o
f
f
e
a,which might seem to come from a
Greek word denoting silence (*w</xk) ; Cheiranthus, which
appears to mean hand-flower, but is really derived from
the Arabic K eiri : and many others.
As we have already said, the attempt at a reforma­
tion of the nomenclature of Mineralogy made by Pro­
fessor Mohs will probably not produce any permanent
effect, on this account amongst others, that it has not
been conducted in this temperate mode ; the innovations
bear too large a proportion to the whole of the names,
and contain too little to remind us of the known appella­
tions. Yet in some respects Professor Mohs has acted
upon this maxim. Thus he has called one of his classes
* Philosophia Botanica, Art. 242. t P. 246.
t Phil. Bot., p. 247. § P- 249. || P. 249. * P. 232.
5 6 6 APHORISMS CONCERNING
Spar, because Felspar belongs to it. I shall venture to
offer a few suggestions on this subject of Mineralogical
Nomenclature.
It has already been remarked that the confusion and
complexity which prevail in this subject render a reform
very desirable. But it will be seen, from the reasons
assigned under the Ninth Aphorism, that no permanent
system of names can be looked for, till a sound system
of classification be established. The best mineralogical
systems recently published, however, appear to converge
to a common point; and certain classes have been formed
which have both a natural-historical and a chemical sig­
nificance. These Classes, according to Naumann, whose
arrangement appears the best, are Hydrolytes, Haloids,
Silicides, Oxides of Metals, Metals, Sulphurides (Pyrites,
Glances, and Blendes), and Anthracides. Now we find;
—that the Hydrolytes are all compounds, such as are
commonly termed Sails;—that the Haloids are, many
of them, already called Spars, as Calc Spar, Heavy
Spar, Iron Spar, Zinc Spar;—that the Silicides, the
most numerous and difficult class, are denoted for the
most part, by single words, many of which end in ite;—
that the other classes, or sub-classes, Oxides, Pyrites,
Glances, and Blendes, have commonly been so termed;
as Red Iron Oxide, Iron Pyrites, Zinc Blende;— while
pure metals have usually had the adjective native pre­
fixed, as Native Gold, Native Copper. These obvious
features of the current names appear to afford us a basis
for a systematic nomenclature. The Salts and Spars
might all have the word salt or spar included in their
name, as Natron Salt, Glauber Salt, Rock Salt; Calc
Spar, Bitter Spar, (Carbonate of Lime and Magnesia),
Fluor Spar, Phosphor Spar, (Phosphate of Lime),
Heavy Spar, Celestine Spar (Sulphate of Strontian),
Chromic Lead Spar (Chromate of Lead); the Silicides
THE LANGUAGE OF SCIENCE. 5 6 7
might all have the name constructed so as to be a single
word ending in ite, as Chabasite (Chabasie),
(Mesotype), Sommite (Nepheline), (Epidote);
from this rule might be excepted the Gems, as Topaz,
Emerald,Corundum, which might retain their old names.
The Oxides, Pyrites, Glances, and Blendes, might be so
termed; thus we should have Tungstic Iron Oxide
(usually called Tungstate of Iron), Arsenical Iron P y­
rites (Mispickel), Tetrahedral Copper Glance (Fahlerz),
Quicksilver Blende (Cinnabar), and the Metals might be
termed native, as Native Copper, Native Silver.
Such a nomenclature would take in a very large pro­
portion of commonly received appellations, especially if
we were to select among the synonyms, as is proposed
above in the case of Glaubet'Salt, Bitter Spar,
Pistacite, Natrolite. Hence it might be adopted without
serious inconvenience. It would make the name convey
information respecting the place of the mineral in the
system; and by imposing this condition, would limit the
extreme caprice, both as to origin and form, which
has hitherto been indulged in imposing mineralogical
names.
The principle of a mineralogical nomenclature deter­
mined by the place of the species in the system, has
been recognized by Mr. Beudant as well as Mr. Mohs.
The former writer has proposed that we should say
Carbonate Calcaire, Carbonate Witherite, Sulphate
Couperose, Silicate Stilbite, Silicate Chabasie, and so on.
But these are names in which the part added for the
sake of the system, is not incorporated with the common
name, and would hardly make its way into common
use.
We have already noticed Mr. Mohs’s designations for
two of the Systems of Crystallization, the Pyramidal
5 6 8 APHORISMS CONCERNING
and the Prismatic, as not characteristic. If it were
thought advisable to reform such a defect, this might be
done by calling them the Square Pyramidal and the
Oblong Prismatic, which terms, while they expressed
the real distinction of the systems, would be intelli­
gible at once to those acquainted with the Mohsian
terminology.
I will mention another suggestion respecting the
introduction of an improvement in scientific language.
The term Depolarization was introduced, because it w
as
believed that the effect of certain crystals, when polarized
light was incident upon them in certain positions, w
as
to destroy the peculiarity which polarization had pro­
duced. But it is now well known that the effect of the
second crystal in general is to divide the polarized ray
of light into two rays, polarized in different planes.
Still this effect is often spoken of as Depolarization, no
better term having been yet devised. I have proposed
and used the term Dipolarization, which well expresses
what takes place, and so nearly resembles the older
word, that it must sound familiar to those already
acquainted with writings on this subject.
I may mention one term in another department of
literature which it appears desirable to reform in the
same manner. The theory of the Fine Arts, or the phi­
losophy which speculates concerning what is beautiful
in painting, sculpture or architecture, and other arts,
often requires to be spoken of in a single word. Baum­
garten and other German writers have termed this pro­
vince of speculation /Esthetics; to percáte,
being a word which appeared to them fit to designate
the perception of beauty in particular. Since, however.
cesthetics would naturally denote the Doctrine of Percep­
tion in general; since this Doctrine requires a name;
THE LANGUAGE OF SCIENCE. 5 6 9
since the term aesthetics has actually been applied to it
by other German writers (as Kant); and since the
essential point in the philosophy now spoken of is that it
attends to Beauty;—it appears desirable to change this
name. In pursuance of the maxim now before us, I
should propose the term C, or rather
agreement with what was said in page 561) Callcesthe-
tic, the science of the perception of beauty.
Digitized by Google
AP P ENDI X.
P H I L O S O P H I C A L E S S A Y S
PREVIOUSLY PUBLISHED.
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
ESSAY I.
ON THE NATURE OF THE TRUTH OF THE LAWS OF
MOTION (1834)*.
1. The long continuance of the disputes and oppositions
of opinion which have occurred among theoretical writers con­
cerning the elementary principles of Mechanics, may have made
such discussions appear to some persons wearisome and unprofit­
able. I might, however, not unreasonably plead this very cir­
cumstance as an apology for offering a new view of the subject ;
since the extent to which these discussions have already gone
shews that some men at least take a great interest in them ;
and it may be stated, I think, without fear of contradiction,
that these controversies have not terminated in the general and
undisputed establishment of any one of the antagonist opinions.
The question to which my remarks at present refer is this :
1
1What is the kind and degree of cogency of the best proofs of
the laws of motion, or of the fundamental principles of mecha­
nics, exprest in any other way f Are these laws, philosophically
considered, necessary, and capable of demonstration by means of
self-evident axioms, like the truths of geometry ; or are they
empirical, and only known to be true by trial and observation,
like such general rules as we obtain in natural history ?
It certainly appears, at first sight, very difficult to answer
the arguments for either side of this alternative. On the one
hand it is said, the laws of motion cannot be necessarily true,
for if they were so, the denial of them would involve a contra­
diction. But this it does not, for we can readily conceive them
to be other than they are. We can conceive that a body in
motion should have a natural tendency to move slower and
slower. And we know that, historically speaking, men did at
first suppose the laws of motion to be different from what they
are now proved to be. This would have been impossible if the
negation of these laws had involved a contradiction of self-evi­
dent principles, and consequently had been not only false but
* From the Transactions of the Cambridge Philosophical Society,
Vol. v. Part II.
5 7 4 ESSAY I.
inconceivable. These laws, therefore, cannot be necessary ; and
can be duly established in no other way than by a reference to
experience.
On the other hand, those who deduce their mechanical
principles without any express reference to experiment, may
urge, on their side, that, by the confession even of their ad­
versaries, the laws of motion are proved to be true beyond the
limits of experience;— that they are assumed to be true of any
new kind of motion when first detected, as well as of those
already examined ;— and that it is inexplicable how such truths
should be established empirically. They may add that the
consequences of these laws are allowed to hold with the most
complete and absolute universality; for instance, the proposition
that “ the quantity of motion in the world in a given direction
cannot be either increased or diminished/’ is conceived to be
rigorously exact; and to have a degree and kind of certainty
beyond and above all mere facts of experience; what other kind
of truth than necessary truth this can be, it is difficult to say.
And if the conclusions be necessarily true, the principles must
be so too.
This apparent contradiction therefore, that a law should be
necessarily true and yet the contrary of it conceivable, is what
I have now to endeavour to explain; and this I must do by
pointing out what appear to me the true grounds of the laws of
motion.
2. The science of Mechanics is concerned about motions as
determined by their causes, namely, forces; the nature and
extent of the truth of the first principles of this science must
therefore depend upon the way in which we can and do reason
concerning causes. In what manner we obtain the conception
of cause, is a question for the metaphysician, and has been the
subject of much discussion. But the general principle which
governs our mode of viewing occurrences with reference to this
conception, so far as our present subject is concerned, does not
appear to be disturbed by any of the arguments which have
been adduced in this controversy. This principle I shall state
in the form of an axiom, as follows.
A xiom I.— Every change is produced by a cause.
It will probably be allowed that this axiom expresses a
universal and constant conviction of the human mind ; and that
THE LAWS OF MOTION. 575
in looking at a series of occurrences, whether for theoretical
or practical purposes, we inevitably and unconsciously assume
the truth of this axiom. If a body at rest moves, or a body in
motion stops, or turns to the right or the left, we cannot con­
ceive otherwise than that there is some cause for this change.
And so far as we can found our mechanical principles on this
axiom, they will rest upon as broad and deep a basis as any
truths which can come within the circle of our knowledge.
I shall not attempt to analyse this axiom further. Different
persons may, according to their different views of such subjects,
call it a law of our nature that we should think thus, or a part
of the constitution of the human mind, or a result of our power
of seeing the true relations of things. Such variety of opinion
or expression would not affect the fundamental and universal
character of the conviction which the axiom expresses; and
would therefore not interfere with our future reasonings.
3. There is another axiom connected with this, which is
also a governing and universal principle in all our reasoning
concerning causes. It may be thus stated.
Axiom II.— Causes are measured by their effects.
Every effect, that is, every change in external objects,
implies a cause, as we have already said : and the existence of
the cause is known only by the effects it produces. Hence the
intensity or magnitude of the cause cannot be known in any
other manner than by these effects: and, therefore, when we
have to assign a measure of the cause, we must take it from the
effects produced.
In what manner the effects are to be taken into account, so
as to measure the cause for any particular purpose, will have to
be further considered; but the axiom, as now stated, is abso­
lutely and universally true, and is acted upon in all parts of our
knowledge in which causes are measured.
4. But something further is requisite. We not only con­
sider that all changes of motion in a body have a cause, but
that this cause may reside in other bodies. Bodies are con­
ceived to act upon one another, and thus to influence each
other s motions, as when one billiard ball strikes another. But
when this happens, it is also supposed that the body struck
influences the motion of the striking body. This is included in
our notion of body or matter. If one ball could strike and
576 ESSAY r.
affect the motions of any number of others without having its
own motion in any degree affected, the struck balls would be
considered, not as bodies, but as mere shapes or appearances.
Some reciprocal influence, some resistance, in short some re­
action, is necessarily involved in our conception of action among
bodies. All mechanical action upon matter implies a corre­
sponding reaction; and we might describe matter as that which
resists or reacts when acted on by force. Not only must there
be a reaction in such cases, but this reaction is defined and
determined by the action which produces it, and is of the same
kind as the action itself. The action which one body exerts
upon another is a blow, or a pressure; but it cannot press or
strike without receiving a pressure or a blow in return. And
the reciprocal pressure or blow depends upon the direct, and is
determined altogether and solely by that. But this action
being mutual, and of the same kind on each body, the effect on
each body will be determined by the effect on the other, ac­
cording to the same rule; each effect in turn being considered
as action and the other as reaction. But this cannot be other­
wise than by the equality and opposite direction of the action
and reaction. And since this reasoning applies in all cases in
which bodies influence each others motions, we have the follow­
ing axiom which is universally true, and is a fundamental
principle with regard to all mechanical relations.
A xiom I I I . — Action is always accompanied by an equal and
opposite Reaction.
5. I n o w proceed to shew in what manner the Laws of
Motion depend upon these three axioms.
Bodies move in lines straight or curved, they move more or
less rapidly, and their motions are variously affected by other
bodies. This succession of occurrences suggests the conceptions
of certain properties or attributes of the motions of bodies, as
their direction and velocity, by means of which the laws of such
occurrences may be exprest. And these properties or attributes
are conceived as belonging to the body at each point of its
motion, and as changing from one point to another. Thus the
body, at each point of its path, moves in a certain direction, and
with a certain velocity.
These properties, direction and velocity for instance, are
subject to the rule stated in the first axiom: they cannot
THE LAWS OF MOTION. 5 7 7
change without some cause; and when any changes In the
motions of a body are seen to depend on its position relative
to another body or to any part of space, such other body, or
such other part of space, is said to exert a force upon the
moving body. Also the force exerted upon the moving body is
considered to be of a certain value at each point of the body's
motion ; and though it may change from one point to another,
its changes must depend upon the position of the points only*
and not upon the velocity and direction of the moving body.
For the force which acts upon the body is conceived as a
property of the bodies, or points, or lines, or surfaces among
which the moving body is placed; the force at all points there­
fore depends upon the position with regard to the bodies and
spaces of which the force is a property ; but remains the same,
whatever be the circumstances of the body moved. The cir­
cumstances of the body moved cannot be a cause which shaft
change the force acting at any point of space, although they
may alter the effect which that force produces upon the body.
Thus, gravity is the same force at the same point of space,
whether it have to act upon a body at rest or in motion ;
although it still remains to be seen whether it will produce the
same effect in the two cases.
6. This being established, we can now see of what nature
the laws of motion must be, and can state in a few words the
proofs of them. We shall have a law of motion corresponding
to each of the above three axioms; the first law will assert that
when no force acts, the properties of the motion will be con­
stant ; the second law will assert that when a force acts, its
quantity is measured by the effect produced; the third law will
assert that, when one body acts upon another, there will be a
reaction, equal and opposite to the action. And so far as the
laws are announced in this form, they will be of absolute and
universal truth, and independent of any particular experiment
or observation whatever.
But though these laws of motion are necessarily and infal­
libly true, they are, in the form in which we have stated them,
entirely useless and inapplicable. It is impossible to deduce
from them any definite and positive conclusions, without some
additional knowledge or assumption. This will be clear by
stating, as we can now do in a very small compass, the proofs
VOL. II. W. P. P P
578 ESSAY I.
of the laws of motion in the form in which they are employed
in mechanical reasonings.
7. First, of the first Law;— that a body not acted npon
by any force will go on in a straight line with an invariable
velocity.
The body will go on in a straight line: for, at any point of
its motion, it has a certain direction, which direction will, by
Axiom I, continue unchanged, except some cause make it
deviate to one side or other of its former position. But any
cause which should make the direction deviate towards any
part of space would be a force, and the body is not acted
upon by any force. Therefore, the direction cannot change,
and the body will go on in the same straight line from the
first.
The body will move with an invariable velocity. For the
velocity at any point will, by Axiom I, continue unchanged,
except some cause make it increase or decrease. And since,
by supposition, the body is not acted upon by any force, there
can be no such cause depending upon position, that is, upon
relations of space; for any cause of change of motion which has
a reference to space is force.
Therefore there can be no cause of change of motion, exoept
there be one depending upon time, such, for instance, as would
exist if bodies had a natural tendency to move slower and
slower, according to a rate depending on the time elapsed.
But if such cause existed, its effects ought to be considered
separately; and it would still be requisite to assume the perma­
nence of the same velocity, as the first law of motion; and to
obtain, in addition to this, the laws of the retardation depend­
ing on the time.
Whether there is any such cause of retardation in the
actual motions of bodies, can be known only by a reference to
experience; and by such reference it appears that there is no
such cause of the diminution of velocity depending on time
alone; and therefore that the first law of motion may, in all
cases in which bodies are exempt from the action of external
forces, be applied without any addition or correction depending
upon the time elapsed.
It is not here necessary to explain at any length in what
manner we obtain from experience the knowledge of the truth
THE LAWS OF MOTION. 5 7 9
just stated, that there is not in the mere lapse of time any
cause of the retardation of moving bodies. The proposition is
established by shewing that in all the cases in which such a
cause appears to exist, the cause of retardation resides in
surrounding bodies and not in time alone, and is therefore an
external force. And as this can be shewn in every instance,
there remains only the negation of all ground for the assump­
tion of such a cause of retardation. We therefore reject it
altogether.
Thus it appears that in proving the first law of motion, we
obtain from our conception of cause the conviction that velocity
will be uniform except some cause produce a change in i t ; but
that we are compelled to have recourse to experience in order
to learn that time alone is not a cause of change of velocity.
8. I now proceed to the second Law:— that when a force
acts upon a body in motion, the effect is the same as that which
the same force produces upon a body at rest.
This law requires some explanation. How is the effect
produced upon a moving body to be measured, so that we may
compare it with the effect upon a body at rest ? The answer to
this is, that we here take for the measure of the effect of the
force, that motion which must be compounded with the motion
existing before the change, in order to produce the motion
which exists after the change: the rules for the composition of
motion being established on independent grounds by the aid of
definition alone. Thus if gravity act upon a body which is
falling vertically, the effect of gravity upon the body is measured
by the velocity added to that which the body already has: if
gravity act upon a body which is moving horizontally, its effect
is measured by the distance to which the body falls below the
horizontal line.
The effect of the force which we consider in the second
Law of motion, is its effect upon velocity only: and it is proper
to mark this restriction by an appropriate term: we shall call
this the accelerative effect of force; and the cause, as mea­
sured by this effect, may be termed the accelerative quantity of
the force *.
* The accelerativo quantity of a force (the quantitas acceleratrix
vis cujusvis of Newton) is often called the acceleratingforce; and we
may thus have to speak of the accelerating force of a certain force,
p p 2 which
580 ESSAY L
A law of motion which necessarily results from our second
Axiom is, that the accelerative quantity of a force is measured
by the accelerative effect. But whether the accelerative effect
depends upon the velocity and direction of the moving body,
cannot be known independently of experience. It is very con­
ceivable, for instance, that the force of gravity being every
where the same, shall yet produce, upon falling bodies, a smaller
accelerative effect in proportion to the velocity which they
already have in a downward direction. Indeed if gravity
resembled in its operation the effect of any other mode of
mechanical agency, the result would be so. If a body moved
downwards in consequence of the action of a hand pushing it
with a constant effort, or of a spring, or of a stream of fluid
rushing in the same direction, the accelerative effect of such
agents would be smaller and smaller as the velocity of the body
propelled was larger and larger. Wo can learn from expert
ence alone that the effects of the action of gravity do not follow
the same rule. #
We assert that the accelerative quantity of the same force
of gravity is the same whatever be the motion of the body
acted on. It may be asked how we know that the force of
gravity is the same in cases so compared ; for instance, when it
acts on a body at rest and in motion ? The answer to this
question we have given already. By the very process of con­
sidering gravity as a force, we consider it as an attribute of
something independent of the body acted on. The amount of
the force may depend upon place, and even time, for any thing
we know a priori ; but we do not find that the weight of
bodies depends on these circumstances, and therefore, having no
evidence of a difference in the force of gravity, we suppose it
the same at different times and places. And as to the rest,
since the force is a force which acts on the body, it is con­
sidered as the same force, whatever be the circumstances of the
passive body, although the effects may vary with these circum-
which is at any rate an awkward phraseology. It would perhaps have
been fortunate if Newton, or some other writer of authority, at the
time when the principles of mechanics were first clearly developed, had
invented an abstract term for this quantity: it might for instance have
been called accelerativity. And the second law of motion would then
have been, that the accelerativity of the same force is the same, what­
ever be the motion of the body acted on.
TIIE LAWS OF MOTION. 581
stances. If the effects are liable to such change, this change
must be considered separately, and its laws investigated; but
it cannot be allowed to unsettle our assumption of the perma­
nence of the force itself. It is precisely this assumption of
a constant cause, which gives us a fixed term, as a means of
estimating and expressing by what conditions the effects are
regulated.
It appears by observation and experiment, that the accele­
rative quantity of the same force is not affected by the velocity
or direction of the body acted on : for instance, a body falling
vertically receives, in any second of time, an accession of velo­
city as great as that which it received in the first second, not­
withstanding the velocity with which it is already moving. The
proof of this and similar assertions from experiment produced,
historically speaking, the establishment of the second law of
motion in the sense in which we now assert it. And here, as
in the case of the first law, we may observe that an important
portion of the process of proof consisted in shewing that in
those cases in which the a c c e le ra tiv e effect of a force appeared to
be changed by the circumstances of the motion of the body
acted on, the change was, in fact, due to other external forces;
so that all evidence of a cause of change residing in those cir­
cumstances was entirely negatived; and thus the law, that the
accelerative effect of the same force is the same, appeared to be
absolutely and rigorously true.
9. When the motions of bodies are not effected merely by
forces like gravity, which are only perceived by their effects, but
are acted upon by other bodies, the case requires other con­
siderations.
It is in such cases that we originally form the conception of
force; we ourselves pull and push, thrust and throw bodies,
with a view, it may be, either to put them in motion, or to
prevent their moving, or to alter their figure. Suoh operations,
and the terms by which they are described, are all included in
the term f o r c e , and in other terms of cognate import. And in
using this term, we necessarily assume and imply the co-exist­
ence of these various effects of force which we have observed
universally to accompany each other. Thus the same kind of
force which is the cause of motion, may also be the cause of
a body having a form different from its natural form ; when we
draw a bow, the same kind of pull is needed to move the string,
582 ESSAY I.
and to hold it steady, when the bow is bent. And a weight
might be hung to the string, so as to produce either the one
or the other of these effects. By an infinite multiplicity of
experiments of this kind, we become imbued with the convic­
tion that the same pressure may be the cause of tension and of
motion. Also as the cause can be known by its effects only,
each of these effects may be taken as its measure ; and there­
fore, so long as one of them is the same, since the cause is the
same, the other must be the same also. That is, so long as
the pressure or force which shews itself in tension is the same,
the motion which it would produce must, under the same cir­
cumstances, be the same also. This general fact is not a result
of any particular observations, but of the general observation or
suggestion arising unavoidably from universal experience, that
both tension and motion may be referred to force as their
cause, and have no other cause.
We come therefore to this principle with regard to the
actions of bodies upon each other, that so long as the tension
or pressure is the same, the force, as shewn by its effect in pro­
ducing motion, must also be the same.
10. This force or action of bodies upon one another, is
that which is meant in the Third Axiom, and we now proceed
to consider the application of this axiom in mechanics.
Pressures or forces such as I have spoken of, may be
employed in producing tension only, and not motion; in this
case, each force prevents the motion which would be produced
by the others, and the forces are said to balance each other, or
to be in equilibrium. The science which treats of such cases
is called Statics, and it depends entirely upon the above third
axiom, applied to pressures producing rest. It follows from
that axiom, that pressures, which acting in opposite directions
thus destroy each other’s effects, must be equal, each measur­
ing the other. Thus if a man supports a stone iu his hand, the
force or effort exerted by the man upwards is equal to the
weight or force of the stone downwards. And if a second
stone, just equal to the first, were supported at the same time
in the same hand, the force or effort must be twice as great;
for the two stones may be considered as one body of twice the
magnitude, and of twice the weight; and therefore the' effort
which supports it must also be twice as great. And thus we
see in what manner statical forces are to be measured in virtue
THE LAWS OF MOTION. 5 8 3
of this third axiom; and no further principle is requisite to
enable us to establish the whole doctrine of statics.
II. The third axiom, when applied to the actions of
bodies in motion, gives rise to the third law of motion, which
we must now consider. Here, as in the cases of the other
axioms, we must inquire how we are to measure the quanti­
ties to which the axiom applies. What is the measure of
the a c tio n which takes place when a body is put in motion
by pressure or foroe! In order to answer this question, we
must consider what circumstances make it requisite that the
force should be greater or less. If we have to lift a stone, the
force which we exert must be greater when the stone is greater:
again, we must exert a greater force to lift it quickly than
slowly. It is clear, therefore, that that property of a force
with which we are here concerned, and which we may call the
m otive q u a n tity of the force*, increases both when the velocity
communicated, and when the mass moved, increase, and depends
upon both these quantities, though we have not yet shewn what
is the law of this dependence.
The condition that a quantity P shall increase when each
of two others V and M does so, may be satisfied in many ways:
for instance, by supposing P proportional to the sum M + V ,
(all the quantities being expressed in numbers), or to the pro­
duct, M V y or to AfF \ or in many other ways.
When, however, the quantities V and M are altogether
heterogeneous, as when one is velocity, and the other weight,
the first of the above suppositions, that P varies as M + V , is
inadmissible. For the law of variation of the formula M + V
depends upon the relation of the units by which M and V
respectively are measured; and as these units are arbitrary in
each case, the result is, in like manner, arbitrary, and therefore
cannot express a law of nature.
12. The supposition that the motive quantity of a force
* The motive quantity of a force (c
m cujusvis quantitas motrix of
Newton) is sometimes called movingforce; we are thus led to speak of
the moving force of a force, as we have already observed concerning
accelerating force. Hence, as in that case, we might employ a single
term, as motxvity, to denote this property of force; and might thus
speak of it and of its measures without the awkwardness which arises
from the usual phrase.
584 ESSAY I.
varies as M + F, where M Is the mass moved and V the velo­
city, being thus inadmissible, we have to select upon due
grounds, among the other formulae M F, M V 2, M * V , 8tc.
And in the first place I observe that the formula must be
proportional to M simply (excluding A/2, &c.) for both the
forces which produce motion and the masses in which motion
is produced are capable of addition by juxtaposition, and it is
easily seen by observation that such addition does not modify
the motion of each mass. If a certain pressure upon one brick
(as its own weight) cause it to fall with a certain velocity, an
equal pressure on another equal brick will cause it also to fall
with the same velocity; and these two bricks being placed in
contact, may be considered as one mass, which a double force
will cause to fall with still the same velocity. And thus all
bodies, whatever be their magnitude, will fall with the same
velocity by the action of gravity. Those who deny this (as the
Aristotelians did) must maintain, that by establishing between
two bodies such a contact as makes them one body, we modify
the motion which a certain pressure will produce in them. And
when we find experimentally (as we do find) that large bodies
and small ones fall with the same velocity, excluding the effects
of extraneous forces, this result shews that there is not, in the
union of small bodies into a larger one, any cause which affects
the motion produced in the bodies.
It appears, therefore, that the motive quantity of force
which puts a body in motion is, c w te ris p a r ib u s , proportional to
the mass of the body ; so that for a double mass a double force
is requisite, in order that the velocity produced may be the
same. Mass considered with reference to this rule, is called
I n e r tia .
13. The measure of mass which is used in expressing a
law of motion, must be obtained in some way independent of
motion, otherwise the law will have no meaning. Therefore,
mass measured in order to be considered as I n e r tia must be
measured by the statical effects of bodies, for instance, by com­
parison of weights. Thus two masses are equal which each
balance the same weight in the same manner ; and a mass is
double of one of them which produces the same effect as the
two. And we find, by universal observations, that the weight
of a mass is not affected by the figure or the arrangement of
parts, so long as the matter continues the same. Hence it
THE LAWS OF MOTION. 5 8 5
appears that the mass of bodies must be compared by compar­
ing their weights, and Inertia is proportional to weight at the
same place.
Since all bodies, small or large, light or heavy, fall down­
wards with equal velocities, when we remove or abstract the
effect of extraneous circumstances, the motive quantity of the
force of gravity on equal bodies is as their masses ; or as their
weight, by what has just been said.
14?. For the measure of the motive quantity of force, or of
the action and reaction of bodies in motion, we have, therefore,
now to choose among such expressions as A/F, and MV*. And
our choice must be regulated by finding what is the measure
which will enable us to assert, in all cases of action between
bodies in motion, that action and reaction are equal and oppo­
site.
Now the fact is, that either of the above measures may be
taken, and each has been taken by a large body of mathema­
ticians. The former however (M V ) has obtained the designa­
tion which naturally falls to the lot of such a measure; and is
called momentum, or sometimes simply quantity of motion: the
latter quantity {M V2) is called vie viva or living force.
I have said that either of these measures may be taken:
the former must be the measure of action, if we are to mea­
sure it by the effect produced in a given time; the latter is the
measure if we take the whole effect produced. In either way
the third law of motion would be true.
Thus if a ball B , lying on a smooth table, be drawn along
by a weight A hanging by a thread over the edge of the table,
the motion of B is produced by the action of A , and on the
other hand the motion of A is diminished by the reaction of B ;
and the equality of action and reaction here consists in this,
that the momentum (M V) which B acquires in any time is
equal to that which A loses: that is, so much is taken from
the momentum which A would have had, if it had fallen freely
in the sa ty e tim e ; so that A falls more slowly by just so much.
But if the weight A fall through a given space from rest,
as 1 foot, and then cease to act, the equality of action and
reaction consists in this, that the vis viva which B acquires on
the whole, is equal to the vis viva which A loses ; that is, the
vis viva of A thus acting on B is smaller by so much than it
would have been, if A had fallen freely through the same space.
5 8 6 ESSAY I.
15. In fact, these two propositions are necessarily con­
nected, and one of them may be deduced from the other. The
former way of stating the third law of motion appears, however,
to be the simplest mode of treating the subject, and we may
put the third law of motion in this form.
In the d irect m utual action o f bodies, the m om entum gained
an d lost in an y tim e are equal.
This law depends upon experiment, and is perhaps best
proved by some of its consequences. It follows from the law
so stated, that the motive quantity of a force is proportional to
the momentum generated in a given tim e; since the motive
quantity of force is to be equivalent to that action and reaction
which is understood in the third law of motion. Now, if the
pressure arising from the weight of a body P produce motion in
a mass Q, since the momentum gained by Q and that lost by
P in any time are equal, the momentum of the wholo at any
time will be the same as if P ’s weight had been employed in
moving P alone. Therefore, the velocity of the mass Q will be
less, in the same proportion in which the mass or inertia is
greater: and thus the accelerating quantity of the force is
inversely proportioned to the mass moved. This rule enables
us to find the accelerative quantity of the force in various
cases, as for instance, when bodies oscillate, or when a smaller
weight moves a large mass ; and we can hence calculate the
circumstances of the motion, which are found to agree with the
consequences of the above law.
16. But the argument may be reduced to a simpler form.
Our object is to shew that, for an equal mass, the velocity pro­
duced by a force acting for a given time is as the pressure
which produces the motion; for instance, that a double pres­
sure will produce a double velocity. Now & double pressure
may be considered as the union of two equal pressures, a n d if
these two act successively, the first will communicate to the body
a certain velocity, and the second will communicate an addi­
tional velocity, equal to the first, by the second law of motion;
so that the whole velocity thus communicated will be the double
of the first. Therefore, if the velocity communicated be not
also the double of the first when the two pressures act together,
the difference must arise from this, that the effect of one force
is modified by the simultaneous action of the other. And when
we find by experience (as we do find) that there is no such
THE LAWS OF MOTION. 587
difference, but that the velocity communicated in a given timo
is as the pressure which communicates it, this result shews that
there is nothing in the circumstance of a body being already
acted on by one pressure, which modifies the effect of an addi­
tional pressure acting along with the first.
17. I have above asserted the law, of the direct action of
bodies only. But it is also true when the action is indirect, as
when by turning a winch we move a wheel, the main mass of
which is farther from the axis than the handle of the winch.
In this case the pressure we exert acts at a mechanical disad­
vantage on the main mass of the wheel, and we may ask whe­
ther this circumstance introduces any new law of motion. And
to this we may reply, that we can conceive pressure to produce
different effects in moving bodies, according as it is exerted
directly or by the intervention of machines; but that we fin d
no reason to believe that such a difference exists. The rela­
tions of the pressures in different parts of a machine are deter­
mined by considering the machine at rest. But if we suppose
it to be put in motion by such pressures, we see no reason to
expect that these pressures should have a different relation to
the motions produced from what they would have done if they
were direct pressures. And as we find in experiment a negation
of all evidence of such a difference, we reject the supposition
altogether. We assert, therefore, the third law of motion to
be true, whatever be the mechanism by the intervention of
which action and reaction are opposed to each other.
From this consideration it is easy to deduce the following
rule, which is known by the designation of D’Alembert's prin­
ciple, and may be considered as a fourth law of motion.
W hen an y forces produce m otion in an y connected system o f
m atter, the m otive qu an tities o ffo rce gain ed an d lost by the differ­
ent p a rts m ust balance each other according to the connexion o f
the system .
By the motive quantity of force gain ed by any body, is here
meant the quantity by which that motive force which the body’s
motion implies (according to the measures already established)
exceeds the quantity of motive force which acts immediately
upon the body. It is the excess of the effective above the im ­
pressed force, and of course arises from the force transmitted
from the other bodies of the system in consequence of the con­
nexion of the parts. The motive quantity of force lost is in like
5 8 8 ESSAY I.
manner the excess of the impressed above the effective force.
And these two excesses, in different parts of the system, must
balance each other according to the mechanical advantage or
disadvantage at which they act for each part.
This completes our system of mechanical principles, and
authorizes us to extend to bodies of any size and form the rules
which the second law of motion gives for the motion of bodies
considered as points. And by thus enabling us to trace what
the motions of bodies will be according to the rule asserted in the
third law of motion, (namely, that the motive quantity of forces
is as the momentum produced in a given time,) it leads us to
verify that supposition by experiments in which bodies oscillate
or revolve or move in any regular and measurable manner, as
has been done by Atwood, Smeaton, and many others.
18. We have thus a complete view of the nature and
extent of the fundamental principles of mechanics ; and we now
see the reason why the laws of motion are so many and no
more, in what way they are independent of experience, and in
what way they depend upon experiment. The form, and even
the language of these laws is of necessity what it is ; but the
interpretation and application of them is not possible without
reference to fact. Wo may imagine many rules according to
which bodies might move (for many sets of rules, different from
the existing ones, are, so far as we can see, possible) and we
should still have to assert— that velocity could not change with­
out a cause,— that change of action is proportional to the force
which produces it,— and that action and reaction are equal and
opposite. The truth of these assertions is involved in those
notions of causation and matter, which the very attempt to
know any thing concerning the relations of matter and motion
presupposes. But, according to the facts which we might find,
in such imaginary cases as I have spoken of, we should settle in
a different way— what is a cause of change of velocity,— what
is the measure of the force which changes motion,— and what is
the measure of action between bodies. The law is necessary, if
there is to be a law; the meaning of its terms is decided by
what we find, and is therefore regulated by our special experi­
ence.
19. It may further illustrate this matter to point out that
this view is confirmed by the history of mathematics. The laws
of motion were assented to as soon as propounded ; but were
THE LAWS OF MOTION. 5S9
yet each in its turn the subject of strenuous controversy. The
terms of the law, the form, which is necessarily true, were
recognized and undisputed ; but the meaning of the terms, the
substance of the law, was loudly contested; and though men
often tried to decide the disputed points by pure reasoning,
it was easily seen that this could not suffice; and that since it
was a case where experience could decide, experience must be the
proper test: since the matter came within her jurisdiction, her
authority was single and supreme.
Thus with regard to the first law of motion, Aristotle
allowed that natural motions continue unchanged, though he
asserted the motions of terrestrial bodies to be constrained
motions, and therefore, liable to diminution. Whether this
was the cause of their diminution was a question of fact, which
was, by examination of facts, decided against Aristotle. In
like manner, in the first case of the second law of motion
which came under consideration, both Galileo and his opponent
agree that falling bodies are uniformly accelerated; that is, that
the force of gravity accelerates a body uniformly whatever be
the velocity it has already ; but the question arises, what is
uniform acceleration ? It so happened in this case, that the
first conjecture of Galileo, afterwards defended by Casraeua,
(that the velocity was proportional to the space from the begin­
ning of the motion,) was not only contradictory to fact, but in­
volved a self-contradiction ; and was, therefore, easily disposed ofi
But this accident did not supersede the necessity of Galileo and
his pupils verifying their assertion by reference to experiment,
Bince there were many suppositions which were different from
theirs, and still possible, though that of Casraeus was not.
The mistake of Aristotle and his followers, in maintaining
that large bodies fall more quickly than small ones, in exact
proportion to their weight, arose from perceiving half of the
third law of motion, that the velocity increases with the force
which produces it ; and from overlooking the remaining half,
that a greater force is required for the same velocity, according
as the mass is larger. The ancients never attained to any con­
ception of the force which moves and the body which is moved,
as distinct elements to be considered when we enquire into the
subject of motion, and therefore could not even propose to
themselves in a clear manner the questions which the third law
t>f motion answered.
5 9 0 ESSAY I.
But, when, in more modem times, this distinction was
brought into view, the progress of opinion in this case was
nearly the same as with regard to the other laws.
It was allowed at once, and by all, that action and reaction
are equal; but the controversy concerning the sense in which
this law is to be interpreted, was.one of the longest and fiercest
in the history of mathematics, and the din of the war has
hardly yet died away. The disputes concerning the measure
of the force of bodies in motion, or the vis viva, were in fact a
dispute which of two measures of action that I have mentioned
above should be taken; the effect in a given time, or the whole
effect: in the one case the momentum (AfF), in the other the
vis viva (ilfF*), was the proper measure.
20. It may be observed that the word momentum, which
one party appropriated to their views, was employed to desig^
nate the motive quantity of force, or the action of bodies
in motion, before it was determined what the true measure o f
such action was. Thus Galileo, in his u Discorso intorno alio
cose che stanno in su TAcqua,” says, that momentum a is tho
force, efficacy, or virtue with which the motion moves and tho
body moved resists; depending not on weight only, but on tho
velocity, inclination, and any other cause of such virtue/1
The adoption of the phrase vis viva is another instance of
the extent to which men are tenacious of those terms which
carry along with their use a reference to the fundamental laws
of our thought on such matters. The party which used this
phrase maintained that the mass multiplied into the square of
the velocity was the proper measure of the force of bodies
in motion; but finding the term moving force appropriated
by their opponents, they still took the same term force, with
the peculiar distinction of its being living force, in opposition
to dead force or pressure, which they allowed to be rightly
measured by the momentum generated in a given time. The
same tendency to adopt, in a limited and technical sense, the
words of most general and fundamental use in the subject, has
led some writers (Newton for instance,) to employ the term
motion or quantity of motion as synonymous with momentum, or
the product of the numbers which express the mass and the
velocity. And this use being established, the quantities of
motion gained and lost are always equal and opposite; and,
therefore the quantity which exists in any given direction can-
THE LAWS OF MOTION. 5i)l
not be increased or diminished by any mutual action of bodies.
Thus we are led to the assertion which has already been noticed,
that the quantity of motion in the world is always the same.
And we now see how far the necessary truth of this proposition
can be asserted. The proposition is necessarily true according
to our notions of material causation; but the measure of
4
1quantity of motion,1
1 which is a condition of its truth, is inevi­
tably obtained from experience.
21. It is not surprizing that there should have been a good
deal of confusion and difference of opinion on these matters: for
it appears that there is, in the intellectual constitution and
faculties of man, a source of self-delusion in such reasonings.
The actual rules of the motion and mutual action of bodies are,
and must be, obtained from observation of the external world :
but there is a constant wish and propensity to express these
rules in such terms as shall make them appear self-evident,
because identical with the universal and necessary rules of
causation. And this propensity is essential to the progress of
our knowledge; and in the success of this effort consists, in a
great measure, the advance of the science to its highest point of
simplicity and generality.
22. The nature of the truth which belongs to the laws of
motion will perhaps appear still more clearly, if we state, in the
following tabular form, the analysis of each law into the part
which is necessary, and the part which is empirical.
First
Law.
Necessary.
Velocity does not
change without a cause.
' Empirical.
The time for which a body
has already been in motion is
not a cause of change of velo­
city.
Second
Law.
The accelerating quan­
tity of a force is mea­
sured by the acceleration
produced.
The velocity and direction
of the motion which a body
already possesses are not, either
of them, causes which change
the acceleration produced.
Third
Law.
Reaction is equal and The connexion of the parts
opposite to action. of a body, or of a system of
bodies, and the action to which #
the body or system is already
subject, are not, either of them,
causes which change the effects
of any additional action.
5 9 2 ESSAY I.
Of course, it will be understood that, when we assert that
the connexion of the parts of a system does not change the
effect of any action upon it, we mean that this connexion does
not introduce any new cause of change, but leaves the effect to
be determined by the previously established rules of equilibrium
and motion. The connexion will modify the application of such
rules ; but it introduces no additional rule : and the same obser­
vation applies to all the above stated empirical propositions.
This being understood, it will be observed that the part of
each law which is here stated as empirical, consists, in each
case, of a negation of the supposition that the condition of the
moving body with respect to motion and action, is a cause of
any change in the circumstances of its motion; and from this
it follows that these circumstances are determined entirely by
the forces extraneous to the body itself.
23. This mode of considering the question shows us in what
manner the laws of motion may be said to be proved by their
simplicity, which is sometimes urged as a proof. They un­
doubtedly have this distinction of the greatest possible simplicity,
for they consist in the negation of all causes of change, except
those which are essential to our conception of such causation.
We may conceive the motions of bodies, and the effect of forces
upon them, to be regulated by the lapse of time, by the motion
which the bodies have, by the forces previously acting; but
though we may imagine this as possible, we do not find that it
is so in reality. If it were, we should have to consider the
effect of these conditions of the body acted on, and to combine
this effect with that of the acting forces; and thus the motion
would be determined by more numerous conditions and more
complex rules than those which are found to be the laws of
nature. The laws which, in reality, govern motion are the
fewest and simplest possible, because all are excluded, except
those which the very nature of laws of motion necessarily
implies. The prerogative of simplicity is possessed by the actual
laws of the universe, in the highest perfection which is imagi­
nable or possible. Instead of having to take into account all
the circumstances of the moving bodies, we find that we have
only to reject all these circumstances. Instead of having to
combine empirical with necessary laws, we learn empirically that
the necessary laws are entirely sufficient.
24. Since all that we learn from experience is, that she
THE LAWS OF MOTION. 593
has nothing to teach us concerning the laws of motion, it
is very natural that some persons should imagine that experience
is not necessary to their proof. And accordingly many writers
have undertaken to establish all the fundamental principles of
mechanics by reasoning alone. This has been done in two
ways:— sometimes by attending only to the necessary part of
each law (as the parts are stated in the last paragraph but one)
and by overlooking the necessity of the empirical supplement
and limitation to it;— at other times by asserting the part
which I have stated as empirical to be self-evident, no less than
the other part. The former way of proceeding may be found in
many English writers on the subject; the latter appears to
direct the reasonings of many eminent French mathematicians.
Some (as Laplace) have allowed the empirical nature of two
out of the three laws; others, as M. Poisson, have considered
the first as alone empirical; and others, as D’Alembert, havo
assumed the self-evidence of all the three independently of any
reference whatever to observation.
25. The parts of the laws which I havo stated as empirical,
appear to me to be clearly of a different nature, as to the
cogency of their truth, from the parts which are necessary; and
this difference is, I think, established by the fact that these
propositions were denied, contested, and modified, before they
were finally established. If these truths could not bo denied
without a self-contradiction, it is difficult to understand how
they could be (as they were) long and obstinately controverted
by mathematicians and others fully sensible to the cogency of
necessary truth. .
I will not however go so far as to assert that there may not
be some point of view in which that which I have called the
empirical part of these laws, (which, as we have seen, contains
negatives only,) may be properly said to be self-evident. But
however this may be, I think it can hardly be denied that there
is a difference of a fundamental kind in the nature of these
truths,— which we can, in our imagination at least, contradict
and replace by others, and which, historically speaking, have
been established by experiment;— and those other truths,
which have been assented to from the first, and by all, and
which we cannot deny without a contradiction in terms, or
reject without putting an end to all use of our reason on this
subject. •
V O L . I I . W . P . Q Q
5 9 4 ESSAY I.
26. On the other hand, if any one should be disposed to
maintain that, inasmuch as the laws are interpreted by the aid
of experience only, they must be considered as entirely empirical
laws, I should not assert this to be placing the science of
mechanics on a wrong basis. But at the same time I would
observe, that the form of these laws is not empirical, and would
be the same if the results of experience should differ from the
actual results. The laws may be considered as a formula
derived from a priori reasonings, where experience assigns the
value of the terms which enter into the formula.
Finally, it may be observed, that if any one can convince
himself that matter is either necessarily and by its own nature
determined to move slower and slower, or necessarily and by its
own nature determined to move uniformly, he must adopt the
latter opinion, not only of tho truth, but of the necessity of the
truth of the first law of motion, since the former branch of the
alternative is certainly false: and similar assertions may be
made with regard to the other laws of motion.
27. This inquiry into the nature of the laws of motion, will,
I hope, possess some interest for those who attach any import­
ance to the logic and philosophy of science. The discussion may
be said to be rather metaphysical than mechanical; but the
views which I have endeavoured to present, appear to explain
the occurrence and result of the principal controversies which
the history of this science exhibits; and, if they are well
founded, ought to govern the way in which the principles of the
science are treated of, whether the treatise betintended for the
mathematical student or the philosopher.
Digitized by Google
ES S AY II.
REMARKS ON MATHEMATICAL REASONING AND ON
THE LOGIC OF INDUCTION*.
Sect. L — On the Grounds o f Mathematical Reasoning.
1. T he study of a science, treated according to a rigorous
system of mathematical reasoning, is useful, not only on account
of the positive knowledge which may be acquired on the subjects
which belong to the science, but also on account of the collateral
effects and general bearings of such a study, as a discipline of
the mind and an illustration of philosophical principles.
Considering the study of the mathematical sciences with
reference to these latter objects, we may note two ways in which
it may promote them ;— by habituating the mind to strict reason­
ing,— and by affording an occasion of contemplating some of the
most important mental processes and some of the most distinct
forms of truth. Thus mathematical studies may be useful in
teaching practical logic and theoretical metaphysics. We shall
make a few remarks on each of these topics.
2. The study of Mathematics teaches strict reasoning—
by bringing under the student’s notice prominent and clear
examples of trains of demonstration :— by exercising him in the
habits of attentive and connected thought which are requisite
in order to follow these trains;— and by familiarizing him with
the peculiar and distinctive conviction which demonstration
produces, and with the rigorous exclusion of all considerations
which do not enter into the demonstration.
3. Logic is a system of doctrine which lays down rules for
determining in what cases pretended reasonings are and arc
not demonstrative. And accordingly, the teaching of strict
reasoning by means of the study of logic is often recommended
and practised. But in order to show the superiority of the
study of mathematics for this purpose, we may consider,—that
reasoning, as a practical process, must be learnt by practice, in
the same manner as any other practical art, for example, riding,
* From the Mechanical Euclid, 1837«
QQ 2
59G ESSAY II.
or fencing ;— that we are not secured from committing fallacies
by such a classification of fallacies as logic supplies, as a rider
would not be secured from falls by a classification of them;—.
and that the habit of attending to our mental processes while
we are reasoning, rather Interferes with than assists our reason­
ing well, as the horseman would ride worse rather than better,
if he were to fix his attention upon his muscles when he is using
them.
4. To this it may be added, that the peculiar habits which
enable any one to follow a chain of reasoning are excellently
taught by mathematical study, and are hardly at all taught by
logic. These habits consist in not only apprehending distinctly
the demonstration of a proposition when it is proved, but in
retaining all the propositions thus proved, and using them in the
ulterior steps of the argument with the same clear conviction,
readiness, and familiarity, as if they were self-evident principles.
Writers on Logic seldom give examples of reasoning in which
several syllogisms follow each other; and they never give
examples in which this progressive reasoning is so exemplified
as to make the process familiar. Their chains generally consist
only of two or three links. In mathematics, on the contrary,
every theorem is an example of such a chain: every proof
consists of a series of assertions, of which each depends on the
preceding, but of which the last inferences are no less evi­
dent or less easily applied than the simplest first principles.
The language contains a constant succession of short and rapid
references to what has been proved already; and it is justly
assumed that each of these brief movements helps the rea-
soner forwards in a course of infallible certainty and security.
Each of these ha6ty glances must possess the clearness of intui­
tive evidence, and the certainty of mature reflection; and yet
must leave the reasoner's mind entirely free to turn instantly to
the next point of his. progress. The faculty of performing
such mental processes well and readily is of great value, and is
in no way fostered by the study of logic.
5. It is sometimes objected to the study of Mathematics
as a discipline of reasoning, that it tends to render men insen­
sible to all reasoning which is not mathematical, and leads them
to demand, in other subjects, proofs such as the subject does not
admit of, or such as are not appropriate to the matter. .
To this it may be replied, that these evil results, so far as
ON MATHEMATICAL REASONING. 5 9 7
they occur, arise either from the student pursuing too exclusively
one particular line of mathematical study, or from erroneous
notions of the nature of demonstration.
The present volume is intended to assist, iu some measure,
in remedying the too exclusive pursuit of one particular line of
Mathematics, by shewing that the same simplicity and evidence
which are seen in the Elements of Geometry may be introduced
into the treatment of another subject of a kind very different;
and it is hoped that we may thus bring the subject within the
reach of those who cultivate the study of Mathematics as a
discipline only. The remarks now offered to the reader are in­
tended to aid him in forming a just judgment of the analogy
between mathematical and other proof; which is to be done by
pointing out the true grounds of the evidence of Geometry, and
by exhibiting the views which are suggested by the extension of
mathematical reasoning to sciences concerned about physical
facts.
6. W e shall therefore now proceed to make some remarks
on the nature and principles of reasoning, especially as far as
they are illustrated by the mathematical sciences.
Some of the leading principles which bear upon this subject
are brought into view by the consideration of the question,
“ What is the foundation of the certainty arising from mathe­
matical demonstration?” and in this question it is implied that
mathematical demonstration is recognized as a kind of reason­
ing, possessing a peculiar character and evidence, which make
it a definite and instructive subject of consideration.
7- Perhaps the most obvious answer to the question respect­
ing the conclusiveness of mathematical demonstration is this ;—
that the certainty of such demonstration arises from its being
founded upon Axioms ; and conducted by steps, of which each
might, if required, be stated as a rigorous Syllogism.
This answer might give rise to the further questions, What
is the foundation of the conclusiveness of a Syllogism? and,
What is the foundation of the certainty of an Axiom? And if
we suppose the former inquiry to be left to Logie, as being the
subject of that science, the latter question still remains to be
considered. We may also remark upon this answer, that
mathematical demonstration appears to depend upon Definitions,
at least as much as upon Axioms. And thus we are led to
these questions:— Whether mathematical demonstration is
5 9 8 ESSAY II.
founded upon Definitions, or upon Axioms, or upon both! and,
What is the real nature of Definitions and of Axioms l
8. The question, What is the foundation of mathematical
demonstration l was discussed at considerable length by Dug&ld
Stewart”
'; and the opinion at which he arrived was, that the
certainty of mathematical reasoning arises from its depending
upon definitions. He expresses this further, by declaring that
mathematical truth is hypothetical, and must be understood as
asserting only, that i f the definitions are assumed, the conclusion
follows. The same opinion has, I think, prevailed widely
among other modern speculators on the same subject, especially
among mathematicians themselves.
9. In opposition to this opinion, I urge, in the first place
that no one has yet been able to construct a system of mathe­
matical truth by means of definitions alone, to the exclu­
sion of axioms; although attempts having this tendency have
been made constantly and earnestly. It is, for instance, well
known to most readers, that many mathematicians have endea­
voured to get rid of Euclid's “ Axioms ” respecting straight
lines and parallel lines; but that none of these essays has been
generally considered satisfactory. If these axioms could be
superseded, by definition or otherwise, it was conceived that the
whole structure of Elementary Geometry would rest merely upon
definitions; and it was held by those who made such essays,
that this would render the science more pure, simple, and homo­
geneous. If these attempts had succeeded, Stewart’s doctrine
might have required a further consideration; but it appears
Btrange to assert that Geometry is supported by definitions,
and not by axioms, when she cannot stir four steps without
resting her foot upon an axiom.
10. But let us consider further the nature of these
attempts to supersede the axioms above mentioned. They
have usually consisted in endeavours so to frame the definitions,
that these might hold the place which the axioms hold in
Euclid's reasoning. Thus the axiom, that “ two straight lines
cannot enclose a space," would be superfluous, if we were to
take the following definition:— “ A line is said to be straigh t,
when two such lines cannot coincide in two points without coin­
ciding altogether
But when such a method of treating the subject is proposed,
• Elements of the Philosophy of the Human Mind, Yol. rr.
ON MATHEMATICAL REASONING. 599
we are unavoidably led to ask,— whether it is allowable to lay
down such a definition. It cannot be maintained that we may
propound any form of words whatever as a definition, without
any consideration whether or not it suggests to the mind any
intelligible or possible conception. What would be said, for
instance, if we were to state the following as a definition, “ A
line is said to be straight (or any other term) when two such
lines cannot coincide in one point without coinciding altoge­
ther T It would inevitably be remarked, that no such lines
exist; or that such a property of lines cannot hold good with­
out other conditions than those which this definition expresses;
or, more generally, that the definition does not correspond to
any conception which we can call up in our minds, and therefore
can be of no use in our reasonings. And thus it would appear,
that a definition, to be admissible, must necessarily refer to and
agree with some conception which we can distinctly frame in
our thoughts.
11. This is obvious, also, by considering that the definition
of a straight line could not be of any use, except we were
entitled to apply it in the cases to which our geometrical propo­
sitions refer. No definitions of straight lines could be employed
in Geometry, unless it were in some way certain that the lines
so defined are those by which angles are contained, those by
which triangles are bounded, those of which parallelism may be
predicated, and the like.
12. The same necessity for some general conception of such
lines accompanying the definition, is implied in the terms of the
definition above suggested. For what is there meant by “ such
lines r Apparently, lines having some general character in
which the property is necessarily involved. But how does it
appear that lines may have such a character ? And if it be self­
evident that there may be such lines, this evidence is a neces­
sary condition of this (or any equivalent) definition. And since
this self-evident truth is the ground on which the course of
reasoning must proceed, the simple and obvious method is, to
state the property as a self-evident truth ; that is, as an axiom.
Similar remarks would apply to the other axiom above men­
tioned ; and to any others which could be proposed on any
subject of rigorous demonstration.
13. If it be conceded that such a conception accompanying
the definition is necessary to justify it, we shall have made a
6 0 0 e s s a y rr.
step in our investigation of the grounds of mathematical evi­
dence. But such an admission does not appear to be com­
monly contemplated by those who maintain that the conclusive­
ness of mathematical proof results from its depending on
definitions. They generally appear to understand their tenet
as if it implied arbitrary definitions. And something like this
seems to be held by Stewart, when he says that mathematical
truths are true hypothetically. For we understand by an
hypothesis a supposition, not only which we may make, but may
abstain from making, or may replace by a different supposition.
14. That the fundamental conceptions of Geometry are not
arbitrary definitions, or selected hypotheses, will, I think, be
clear to any one who reasons geometrically at all. It is impos­
sible to follow the steps of any single proposition of Geometry
without conceiving a straight line and its properties, whether or
not such a line be defined, and whether or not its properties be
stated. That a straight line should be distinguished from all
other lines, and that the axiom respecting it should be seen to
be true, are circumstances indispensable to any clear thought on
the subject of lines. Nor would it be possible to frame any
coherent scheme of Geometry in which straight lines should be
excluded, or their properties changed. Any one who should
make the attempt, would betray, in his first propositions, to all
men who can reason geometrically, a reference to straight
lines.
15. If, therefore, we say that Geometry depends on defi­
nitions, we must add, that they are necessary, not arbitrary
definitions,— such definitions as we must have in our minds, so
far as we have elements of reasoning at all. And the ele­
mentary hypotheses of Geometry, if they are to be so termed,
are not hypotheses which are requisite to enable us to reach this
or that conclusion; but hypotheses which are requisite for any
exercise of our thoughts on such subjects.
16. Before I notice the bearing of this remark on the ques­
tion of the necessity of axioms, I may observe that Stewart's
disposition to consider definitions, and not axioms, as the true
foundation of Geometry, appears to have resulted, in part, from
an arbitrary selection of certain axioms, as specimens of all. He
takes, as his examples, the axioms, u that if equals be added to
equals the wholes are equal," that wthe whole is greater than
its p a r t a n d the like. If ho had, instead of these, considered
ON MATHEMATICAL REASONING. 601
the more properly geometrical axioms,— such as those which I
have mentioned; “ that two straight lines cannot enclose a
s p a c e o r any of the axioms which have been made the basis
of the doctrine of parallels; for instance, Playfairs axiom,
4
1that two straight lines which intersect each other cannot both
of them be parallel to a third straight l i n e — it would have
been impossible for him to have considered axioms as holding a
different place from definitions in geometrical reasoning. For
the properties of triangles are proved from the axiom respecting
straight lines, as distinctly and directly, as the properties of
angles are proved from the definition of a right angle. Of the
many attempts made to prove the doctrine of parallels, almost
all professedly, all really, assume some axiom or axioms which
are the basis of the reasoning.
17. It is therefore very surprizing that Stewart should so
exclusively have fixed his attention upon the more general
axioms, as to assert, following Locke, “ that from [mathemati­
cal] axioms it is not possible for human ingenuity to draw a
single inference'*;'” and even to make this the ground of a con­
trast between geometrical axioms and definitions. The slight­
est examination of any treatise of Geometry might have shown
him that there is no sense in which this can be asserted of
axioms, in which it is not equally true of definitions; or rather,
that while Euclid’s definition of a straight line leads to no truth
whatever, his axiom respecting straight lines is the foundation
of the whole of Geometry ; and that, though we can draw some
inferences from the definition of parallel straight lines, we strive
in vain to complete the geometrical doctrine of such lines, with­
out assuming some axiom which enables us to prove the con­
verse of our first propositions. Thus, that which Stewart pro­
poses as the distinctive character of axioms, fails altogether; and
with it, as I conceive, the whole of his doctrine respecting
mathematical evidence.
] 8. That Geometry (and other sciences when treated in a
method equally rigorous) depends upon axioms as well as
definitions, is supposed by the form in which it is commonly
presented. And after what we have said, we shall assume this
form to be a just representation of the real foundations of such
sciences, till we can find a tenable distinction between axioms
and definitions, in their nature, and in their use ; and till we
* Elements of the Philosophy of thfHuman Mind, YoL n. p. 38.
G02 ESSAY II.
have before us a satisfactory system of Geometry without
axioms. And this system, we may remark, ought to include
the Higher as well as the Elementary Geometry, before it
can be held to prove that axioms are needless; for it will
hardly be maintained, that the properties of circles depend upon
definitions and hypotheses only, while those of ellipses require
some additional foundation ; or that the comparison of curve
lines requires axioms, while the relations of straight lines are
independent of such principles.
19. Having then, I trust, cleared away the assertion, that
mathematical reasoning rests ultimately upon definitions only,
and that this is the ground of its peculiar cogency, I have to
examine the real evidence of the truth of such axioms as are
employed in the exact Mathematical Sciences. And we are, I
think, already brought within view of the answer to this ques­
tion. For if the definitions of Mathematics are not arbitrary,
but necessary, and must, in order to be applicable in reasoning,
bo accompanied by a conception of the mind through which this
necessity is seen ; it is clear, that this apprehension of the
necessity of the properties which we contemplate, is really the
ground of our reasonings and the source of their irresistible
evidence. And where we clearly apprehend such necessary
relations, it can make no difference whatever in the nature of
our reasoning, whether we express them by means of definitions
or of axioms. We define a straight line vaguely;— that it is
that line which lies evenly between two points : but we forth­
with remedy this vagueness, by the axiom respecting straight
lines: and thus we express our conception of a straight line, so
far as is necessary for reasoning upon it. We might, in like
manner, begin by defining a right angle to be the angle made by
a line which stands evenly between the two portions of another
lino; and we might add an axiom, that all right angles are
equal. Instead of this, we define a right angle to be that which
a line makes with another when the two angles on the two sides
of it are equal. But in all these cases, we express our con­
ception of a necessary relation of lines ; and whether this be
done in the form of definitions or axioms, is a matter of no
importance.
20. But it may be asked, If it be thus unimportant
whether we state our fundamental principles as axioms or defi­
nitions, why not reduce them all to definitions, and thus give to
ON MATHEMATICAL REASONING. 6 0 3
our system that aspect of independence which many would ad­
mire, and with which none need be displeased l And to this
we answer, that if such a mode of treating the subject were
attempted, our definitions would be so complex, and so obviously
dependent on something not expressed, that they would be ad­
mired by none. We should have to put into each definition, as
conditions, all the axioms which refer to the things defined.
For instance, who would think it a gain to escape the difficulties
of the doctrine of parallels by such a definition as this : ‘‘Parallel
straight lines are those which being produced indefinitely both
ways do not m eet; and which are such that if a straight line
intersects one of them it must somewhere meet the other?”
And in other cases, the accumulation of necessary properties
would be still more cumbersome and more manifestly heteroge­
neous.
21. The reason of this difficulty is, that our fundamental
conception of lines and other relations of space, are capable of
being contemplated under several various aspects, and more than
one of these aspects are needed in our reasonings. We may
take one such aspect of the conception for a definition ; and
then we must introduce the others by means of axioms. We
may define parallels by their not meeting; but we must have
some positive property, besides this negative one, in order to
complete our reasonings respecting such lines. We have, in
fact, our choice of several such self-evident properties, any of
which we may employ for our purpose, as geometers well know;
but with our naked definition, as they also know, we cannot
proceed to the end. And in other cases, in like manner, our
fundamental conception gives rise to various elementary truths,
the connexion of which is the basis of our reasonings: but this
connexion resides in our thoughts, and cannot be made to follow,
as a logical result, from any assumed form of words, presented
as a definition.
22. If it be further demanded, What is the nature of this
bond in our thoughts by which various properties of lines are
connected ? perhaps the simplest answer is to say, that it resides
in (he idea of space. We cannot conceive things in space with­
out being led to consider them as determined and related in
some way or other to straight lines, right angles, and the like;
and we cannot contemplate these determinations and relations
distinctly, without assuming those properties of straight lines,
6 0 4 ESSAY ir.
of right angles, and of the rest, which are the basis of our Geo­
metry. We cannot conceive or perceive objects at all, except
as existing in space ; we cannot contemplate them geometrically,
without conceiving them in space which is subjected to geome­
trical conditions; and this mode of contemplation is, by language,
analysed into definitions, axioms, or both.
23. The truths thus seen and known, may be said to be
known by intuition. In English writers this term has, of late,
been vaguely used, to express all convictions which are arrived
at without conscious reasoning, whether referring to relations
among our perceptions, or to conceptions of the most derivative
and complex nature. But if we were allowed to restrict the use
of this term, we might conveniently confine it to those cases in
which we necessarily apprehend relations of things truly, as soon
as we conceive the objects distinctly. In this senso axioms may
be said to be known by intuition; but this phraseology is not
essential to our purpose.
24. It appears, then, that the evidence of the axioms of
Geometry depends upon a distinct possession of the idea of
space. These axioms are stated in the beginning of our Trea­
tises, not as something which the reader is to learn, but as
something which he already knows. No proof is offered of
them; for they are the beginning, not the end of demonstra­
tion. The student's clear apprehension of the truth of these, is
a condition of the possibility of his pursuing the reasonings on
which he is invited to enter*. Without this mental capacity,
* In this statement respecting the nature of Axioms, I find myself
agreeing with the acute author of “ Sematoloyy” Sec the “ Sequel to
Sematoloyy” p. 103. “ An Axiom does not account for an intellection;
it does but describe the requisite competency for it/’ It appears to me
that this view is not familiar among English metaphysicians. I may
here quote what I said at a former period, “ However we may define
force, it is necessary in order to understand the elementary reasonings of
this portion of science, that we should conceive it distinctly. Do we
wish for a test of the distinctness of our conceptions ? The test is, our
being able to see the necessary truth of the Axioms on which our rea­
sonings rest...These principles (the Axioms of Statics) are all perfectly
evident as soon as we have formed the general conception of pressure;
but without that act of thought, they can have no evidence whatever
given them by any form of words, or reference to other truths ;—by
definitions, or by illustrations from other kinds of quantity.”— Thought<
on the Study of Mathematics, p. 25.
ON MATHEMATICAL REASONING. 6 0 5
and the power of referring to it, in the reader, the writer's
assertions and arguments are empty and unmeaning words; but
then, this capacity and power are what all rational creatures
alike possess, though habit may have developed it in very various
degrees in different persons.
25. It has been common in the school of metaphysicians
of which I have spoken, to describe some of the elementary
convictions of our minds as fundamental laws of belief; and it
appears to have been considered that this might be taken as a
final and sufficient account of such convictions. I do not know
whether any persons would be tempted to apply this formula, as
a solution of our question respecting the nature of axioms. If
this were proposed, I should observe, that this form of expres­
sion seems to me, in such a case, highly unsatisfactory. For
laics require and enjoin a conjunction of things which can be
contemplated separately, and which would be disjoined if the
law did not exist. It is a law of nature that terrestrial bodies,
when free, fall downwards ; for we can easily conceive such
bodies divested of such a property. But we cannot say, in the
same sense, that the impossibility of two straight lines inclosing
a space arises from a law; for if they are straight lines, they
need no law to compel this result. Wo cannot conceive straight
lines exempt from such a law. To speak of this property as
imposed by a law, is to convey an inadequate and erroneous
notion of the close necessity, inviolable even in thought, by
which the truth clings to the conception of the lines.
26. This expression, of “ laws of belief,1
1 appears to have
found favour, on this account among others, that it recognized
a kind of analogy between the grounds of our reasoning on very
abstract subjects, and the principles to which we have recourse
in other cases when we manifestly derive our fundamental truths
from facts, and when it is supposed to be the ultimate and
satisfactory account of them to say, that they are laws of nature
learnt by observation. But such an analogy can hardly bo con­
sidered as a real recommendation by the metaphysician; since
it consists in taking a case in which our knowledge is obviously
imperfect and its grounds obscure, and in erecting this case into
an authority which shall direct the process and control the en­
quiry of a much more profound and penetrating kind of specula­
tion. It cannot be doubted that we are likely to see the true
grounds and evidence of our doctrines much more clearly in the
6 0 6 ESSAY II.
case of Geometry and other rigorous systems of reasoning, than
in collections of mere empirical knowledge, or of what is supposed
to be such. It is both an unphilosophical and an indolent pro­
ceeding, to take the latter cases as a standard for the former.
27. I shall therefore consider it as established, that in
Geometry our reasoning depends upon axioms as well as defi­
nitions,— that the evidence of the truth of the axioms and of
the propriety of the definitions resides in the idea of space,—
and that the distinct possession of this idea, and the consequent
apprehension of the truth of the axioms which are its various
aspects, is supposed in the student who is to pursue the path of
geometrical reasoning. This being understood, I have little
further to observe on the subject of Geometry. I will only
remark—that all the conclusions which occur in the science
follow purely from those first principles of which we have spoken;
— that each proposition is rigorously proved from those which
have been proved previously from such principles;— that this
process of successive proof is termed Deduction ;— and that the
rules which secure the rigorous conclusiveness of each step are
the rules of Logic, which I need not here dwell upon.
28. But I now proceed to consider some other questions
' to which our examination of the evidence of Geometry was in­
tended to be preparatory;— How far do the statements hitherto
made apply to other sciences l for instance, to such sciences as
are treated of in the present volume, Mechanics and Hydro­
statics ? To this I reply, that some such sciences at least, as
for example Statics, appear to me to rest on foundations exactly
similar to Geometry :— that is to say, that they depend upon
axioms,— self-evident principles, not derived in any immediate
manner from experiment, but involved in the very nature of the
conceptions which we must possess, in order to reason upon
such subjects at all. The proof of this doctrine must consist of
several steps, which I shall take in order.
29. In the first place, I say that the axioms of Statics
are self-evidently true. In the beginning of the Treatise I
have stated these barely as axioms, without addition or ex­
planation, as the axioms of Geometry are stated in treatises on
that subject. And such is the proper and orderly mode of
exhibiting axioms; for, as has been said, they are to be under­
stood as an expression of the condition of conception of the
student. They are not to be learnt from without, but from
ON MATHEMATICAL REASONING. G
O7
within. They necessarily and immediately flow from the distinct
possession of that idea, which if the student do not possess dis­
tinctly, all conclusive reasoning on the subject under notice is
impossible. It is not the business of the deductive reasoner to
communicate the apprehension of these truths, but to deduce
others from them.
SO. But though it may not be the authors business tor
elucidate the truth of the axioms as a deductive reasoner, it
may still be desirable that he should do so as a philosophical
teacher; and though it may not be possible to add anything to
their evidence in the mind of him who possesses distinctly the
idea from which they flow, it may be in our power to assist the
beginner in obtaining distinct possession of this idea and unfold­
ing it into its consequences. I shall therefore make a few
remarks, tending to illustrate the self-evident nature of the
“ Axioms1
’ of Statics, of Hydrostatics, and of the Doctrine of
Motion.
31. Omitting, for the present, the consideration of the First
Axiom of Statics (see paragraph 36); the Second is, “ If two
equal forces act perpendicularly at the extremities of equal arms
of a straight line to turn it opposite ways, they will keep each
other in equilibrium.” This is often, and properly, further con­
firmed, by observing that there is no reason why one of the
forces should preponderate rather than the other, and that, as
both cannot preponderate, neither will do so. All the circum­
stances on which the result (equilibrium or preponderance) can
depend, are equal on the two sides;— equal arms, equal angles,
equal forces. If the forces are not in equilibrium, which will
preponderate ? no answer can be given, because there is no cir­
cumstance left by which either can be distinguished.
32. The argument which we have just used, is often ap­
plicable, and may be expressed by the formula, 4
6there is no
reason why one of the two opposite cases should occur, which is
not equally valid for the other; and as both cannot occur (for
they are opposite cases) neither will occur.” This argument is
called “ the principle of sufficient reason;1
1 it puts in a general
form the considerations on which several of our axioms depend;
and to persons who are accustomed to such generality, it may
make their truth more clear.
The same principle might be applied to other cases, for
example, to Axiom 7, that the effect produced on a bent lever
6 0 8 ESSAY II.
does not depend on the direction of the arm. For if we sup­
pose two forces acting perpendicularly on two equal arms of a
bent lever to turn it opposite ways, these forces will balance,
whatever be the angle which they make, since there is no reason
why either should preponderate: but it would thus appear, that
the force which would be balanced by Q in the figure to Axiom
7, would also be balanced by B, and therefore these two forces
produce the same effect; which is what the axiom asserts.
S3. The same reasoning might be applied to Axiom 9;
for if two equal forces act at right angles at equal arms, in
planes perpendicular to the axis of a rigid body, and tend to
turn it opposite ways, they will balance each other, since all the
conditions are the same for both.
34. Nearly the same might be said of Axiom 10;—if a
string pass freely round a fixed body, equal forces acting at its
two ends will balance each other ; for if it pass with perfect
freedom, its passing round the point cannot give an advantage
to either force. Therefore the force which will be balanced by
the string at its second extremity is exactly equal to the force
which acts at its first extremity**.
35. The axioms which are perhaps least obvious are Axioms
4 and 5 ; for instance, the former ;— that “ the pressure upon
the fulcrum is equal to the sum of the weights.” Yet this
becomes evident when we consider it steadily. It will then be
seen that we consider pressure or weight as something which
must be supported, so that the whole support must be equal to
the whole pressure. The two weights which act upon the lever
must be somehow balanced rnd counteracted, and the length of
the lever cannot at all remove or alter this necessity. Their
pressure will be the same as if the two arms of the lever were
shortened till the weights coincided at the fulcrum; but in this
case, it is clear that the pressure on the fulcrum would be equal
to the sum of the weights: therefore it will be so in every other
ease.
36. This principle, that in statical equilibrium, a force is
necessarily supported by an equal force, is expressed in Axiom 1,
with regard to forces acting at any point; and the two forces
are then called action and re-action. The principle, as stated in
Axiom 1, may be considered as an expression of the conception
of equality as applied to forces, or, if any one chooses, as a
• The same principle may be applied to prove Ax. 6.
ON MATHEMATICAL REASONING. 6 0 9
definition of equal forces. This principle is implied in the con­
ception of any comparison of forces; for equilibrium and addi­
tion of forces are modes in which forces are compared, as super­
position and addition of spaces are modes in which geometrical
quantities are compared.
We may further observe, that this fundamental conception
of action and reaction is equivalent to the conception of force
and matter, which are ideas necessarily connected and correla­
tive. Matter is that which can resist the action of force. In
Mechanics at least, we know matter only as the subject on
which force acts.
37. But matter not only receives, it also transmits the
action of force; and it is impossible to reason respecting the
mechanical results of such transmission, without laying down the
fundamental principles by which it operates. And this accord­
ingly is the purpose of Axioms 7, 8, 9 , 10, 13 [of th% Mechanical
Euclid]. When the body is supposed to be perfectly rigid, it
transmits force without any change or yielding. This rigidity
of a body is contemplated under different aspects, in the
Axioms just referred to. In Axiom 8, it is the rigidity of a
rod pushed endways; in Axiom 7, the rigidity of a plane turned
about a fixed point; in Axiom 9, the rigidity of a solid twisted
about an axis. Axiom 10 defines the manner in which a
flexible string transmits pressure, and in like manner Axiom 1
of the Hydrostatics, defines the manner in which a fluid trans­
mits pressure. Any one who chooses may call Axioms 7, 8, 9
of the Statics, collectively, the Definition of a rigid body. The
place of these principles in our reasoning will not be thereby
altered; nor the necessity superseded, of their being accom­
panied by distinct mechanical conceptions.
38. Axioms 14, 15, 16, of the Statics, are all included in
the general consideration that material bodies may be supposed
to consist of material parts, and that the weight of the whole
is equal to the weight of all the parts; but they are stated
separately, because they are used separately, and because they
are at least as evident in these more particular cases as they
are in the more general form.
By considerations of this nature it appears, and I trust
quite satisfactorily, that the axioms, as above stated, are evi­
dent in their nature, in virtue of the conceptions which we
necessarily form, in order to reason upon mechanical subjects.
VOL. II. W. P. R R
610 ESSAY II.
39. Some persons may be surprized to find the Axioms
of Mechanics represented as so numerous; especially if they
look for analogy to Geometry, where the necessary axioms are
confessedly few, and according to some writers, none ; and they
may be led to think that many of the axioms here given must
be superfluous, by observing that in most mechanical works the
fundamental principles are stated as much fewer than these.
But I believe that very few of those which I have stated are
superfluous in effect. From the very circumstance that they are
axioms, they are assented to when they are adduced in the
reasoning, whether they have been before asserted or n ot; but
to make our reasoning formally correct (which was one of my
objects) every proposition which is assumed should be previously
stated. And when we examine them, we see that the various
modifications and combinations of the ideas of force, body, and
equilibrium, along with the ideas of space of one, two, or three
dimensions, readily branch out into as many heads as appear in
this part of the present work.
40. Some persons may be disposed at first to say, that our
knowledge of such elementary truths as are stated in the Axioms
of Statics and Hydrostatics, is collected from observation and
experience. But in refutation of this I remark, that we cannot
experimentally verify these elementary truths, without assuming
other principles which require proof as much as these do. If,
for instance, Archimedes had wished to ascertain by trial whether
two equal weights at the equal arms of a lever would balance
each other, how could he know that the weights w ere equal, by
any more simple criterion than that they did balance! But in
fact, it is perfectly certain that of the thousands of persons who
from the time of Archimedes to the present day have studied
Statics as a mathematical science, a very few have received or
required any confirmation of his axioms from experiment; and
those who have needed such help have undoubtedly been those
in whom the apprehension of the real nature and force of the
evidence of the subject was most obscure.
41. I by no means intend to assert that the axioms as
stated in this Treatise are given in the only exact form; or
that they may not be improved, simplified, and reduced in
number. But I do not think it likely that this can be done to
any great extent, consistently with the rigour of deductive proof.
The Fourth Axiom of Statics is one which attempts have been
ON MATHEMATICAL REASONING. 611
made to supersede: for example, Lagrange* has endeavoured
to deduce it from the preceding ones. But it will be found
that his proof, if distinctly stated, involves some such axiom as
this:— that “ If two forces, acting at the extremities of a
straight line, and a single force, acting at an intermediate point
of the straight line, produce the same effect to turn a body about
another line, the two forces produce at the intermediate point
an effect equal to the single force.” And though this axiom
may be self-evident, it will hardly be considered as more simple
than that which it replaces.
42. Thus, Statics, like Geometry, rests upon axioms which
are neither derived directly from experience, nor capable of
being superseded by definitions, nor by simpler principles. In
this science, as in that previously considered, the evidence of
these fundamental truths resides in those convictions, to which
an attentive and steady consideration of the subject necessarily
leads us. The axioms with regard to pressures, action and re­
action, equilibrium and preponderance, rigid and flexible bodies,
result necessarily from the conceptions which are involved in all
exact reasoning on such matters. The axioms do not flowfrom
the definitions, but they flow irresistibly along vrith the definitions,
from the distinctness of our ideas upon the subjects thus brought
into view. These axioms are not arbitrary assumptions, nor
selected hypotheses ; but truths which we must see to be neces­
sarily and universally true, before we can reason on to anything
else; and here, as in Geometry, the capacity of seeing that
they are thus true, is required in the student, in order that he
and the writer may be able to proceed together.
43. It was stated that the Axioms of Geometry, are de­
rived from the idea of space; in like manner the Axioms of
Statics are derived from the idea of statical force or pressure,
and the idea of body or matter, which, as we have said, is cor­
relative with the idea of force. We must possess distinctly this
idea of force acting upon body and body sustaining force;— of
body resisting, and while it resists, transmitting the action of
force ;— of body, with this mechanical property, in the various
forms of straight line, lever, plane, solid, flexible line, flexible
surface, and fluid; and if we possess distinctly the ideas thus
pointed out, the truth of the Axioms of Statics and Hydrostatics
will be seen as self-evident, and we shall be in a condition to
• Mdcanique Analytique. Introduction.
R R 2
0 1 2 ESSAY II.
go on with the reasonings [of the Mechanical Euclid], seeing
both the cogency of the proof, and its necessary and independ­
ent character.
44. As the Axioms which are the basis of the Statics of
Solids depend upon the idea of body, considered as transmitting
force, so the axioms of Hydrostatics depend on the idea of a
fluid, considered as a body which transmits pressure in all direc­
tions; or, as we may express it more briefly, upon the idea of
fluid pressure. It is not enough to conceive a fluid as a body,
the parts of which are perfectly moveable; for, as I have else­
where observed*, “ this definition cannot be a sufficient basis
for the doctrines of the pressure of fluids; for how can we
evolve, out of the mere notion of mobility, which includes no
conception of force, the independent conception of pressure.”
But the conception of fluid as transmitting pressure, supplies us
with the requisite axioms. The First Axiom of our Hydro­
statics— that if a fluid be contained in a tube of which the two
ends are similar and equal planes acted on by equal pressures,
it will be kept in equilibrium— follows from the principle of
sufficient reason, for there is no reason why either pressure should
preponderate. If, for example, the curvature of the tube, or
any such cause, affected the pressure at either end, this condition
would be a limitation of the property of transmitting pressure
in all directions, and would imply imperfect fluidity ; whereas
the fluidity is supposed to be perfect. And for the like reasons,
we might assume as an Axiom the Third Proposition of the
hydrostatics, that fluids transmit pressure equally in all direc­
tions, from one part of their boundary to the other; for if the
pressure transmitted were different according to the direction,
this difference might be referred to some cohesion or viscosity
of the fluid; and the fluidity might be made more perfect, by
Conceiving the difference removed. Therefore the proposition
would be necessarily and evidently true of a perfect fluid.
45. But instead of laying down this axiom, I have taken
the axiom that any part of a fluid which is in equilibrium, may
be supposed to become rigid. This axiom leads immediately to
the proposition, and it is, besides, of great use in all parts of
Hydrostatics. If we had to reason concerning flexible bodies,
we might conveniently and properly assume a corresponding
&xiom for them;— namely, that, of a flexible body which is in
* Thought8 on ike Study of Mathematic*.
ON MATHEMATICAL REASONING. 6 1 3
equilibrium, any part may be supposed to become rigid. And
we might give a reason for this, by saying that rigidity implies
forces which resist a tendency to change of form, when any such
tendency occurs; but in a body which is in equilibrium, there is
no tendency to change of form, and therefore the resisting forces
vanish. It is of no consequence what forces would act if there
tcere a stress to bend the body: since there is not any such
stress, the rigidity is not called into play, and therefore it
makes no difference whether we suppose it to exist or not.
46. The same kind of reasons may be given, in order to
shew the admissibility of introducing, in the case of equilibrium
of a fluid, rigidity, instead of that still greater susceptibility of
change of figure which fluidity implies. Since the mass is per­
fectly fluid, its particles exert no constraint on each other's
motions; but then, because they are in equilibrium, no con­
straint is needed to keep them in their places. They are as
steadily kept there (so long as the same forces continue to act)
as if they were held by the insurmountable forces which connect
the parts of a perfectly rigid body. We may therefore suppose
the inoperative forces of rigidity to be present or absent among
the particles, without altering the other forces or their rela­
tions. And hence we see the truth of Axiom 2 of the Hydro­
statics.
47. The above considerations (Art. 44) arising from the
properties which we assume being perfect, may be applied in
other cases; for instance, to shew that the force exerted by a
perfectly smooth surface is perpendicular to the surface. {Meek.
Buc. B. i. Ax. 13.) For if it were not, the force might be re­
solved into a force perpendicular to the surface, and a force
acting along the surface; and the latter force might be referred
to some friction or cohesion of the surface. Therefore we should
not have supposed the surface perfectly smooth, without ima­
gining this force to vanish: and thus the only force exerted by
such a perfectly smooth surface would necessarily be a normal
force.
48. The last axiom of Hydrostatics (Ax. 7) is in fact a
substitute for an idea which we must exclude in Elementary
Mathematics;— the idea of a Limit. The attempt to proceed
far in Geometry without the use of this idea, gave rise to a
series of well-known embarrassments among the ancients. The
mode of evading the difficulty which I have adopted, by means
6 1 4 ESSAY II.
of the axiom just referred to, appeared to me the beet. The
axiom is readily assented to, if it be considered that, since we
may make the particles as small as we please, we may make as
small as we please the errour arising from the neglect of one
particle. We may make it microscopic, and then throw away
the microscope; and thus the errour vanishes.
49. Some of the Axioms which are stated in Book ui., on
the Laws of Motion, give occasion to remarks similar to those
already made. Thus Axiom 4, which asserts that if particles
move in such a manner as always to preserve the same relative
distances and positions, their motions will not be altered by
supposing them rigidly connected, is evident by the same con­
siderations as the Axioms concerning flexible and fluid bodies,
already noticed in Articles 45 and 46. For the forces of
rigidity are forces which would prevent a change of the dis­
tances and relative positions of the particles if there were a
tendency to any such change; and if there be no such tendency,
it makes no difference whether the potential resistance to it be
present or absent.
50. The 5th Axiom of Book nr., which asserts that forces
producing parallel and equal velocities at the same time, may
be conceived to be added; and the 6th Axiom, which asserts
that in systems in motion the action and reaction are equal
and opposite, are applications of what is stated in the second
sentence of this third Book ;— that the Definitions and Axioms
of Statics are adopted and assumed in the case of bodies in
motion. In the third Book, as in the first, forces are con­
ceived as capable of addition, and matter is conceived as that
which can resist force, and transmit it unaltered.
The Sd, 8th, and 9th Axioms of Book m., like the 7th
of Book ii., are introduced to avoid the reasoning which depends
on Limits.
51. In the case of Mechanics, as in the case of Geometry,
the distinctness of the idea is necessary to a full apprehension
of the truth of the axioms; and in the case of mechanical
notions it is far more common than in Geometry, that the
axioms are imperfectly comprehended, in consequence of the
want of distinctness and exactness in men’s ideas. Indeed this
indistinctness of mechanical notions has not only prevailed in
many individuals at all periods, but we can point out whole
centuries, in which it has been, so far as we can trace, universal.
ON MATHEMATICAL REASONING. 6 1 5
And the consequence of this was, that the science of Statics,
after being once established upon clear and sound principles,
again fell into confusion, and was not understood as an exact
science for two thousand years, from the time of Archimedes to
that of Galileo and Stevinus.
52. In order to illustrate this indistinctness of mechanical
ideas, I shall take from an ancient Greek writer an attempt to
solve a mechanical problem; namely, the Problem of the In­
clined Plane. The following is the mode in which Pappus
professes* to answer this question :— “ To find the force which
will support a given weight A upon an inclined plane/’
Let H K be the plane; let the weight A be formed into a
sphere: let this sphere be placed in
contact with the plane H K y touching
it in the point L, and let E be its
center. Let EG be a horizontal radius,
and L F a vertical line which meets it.
Take a weight B which is to A as E F
to FG. Then if A and B be suspended
at E and G to the lever EFG of which
the center of motion is F, they will
balance; being supported, as it were,
by the fulcrum" L F . And the sphere, which is equal to the
weight A, may be supposed to be collected at its center. If
therefore B act at G, the weight A will be supported.
It may be observed that in this attempt, the confusion of
ideas is such, that the author assumes a weight which acts at
G, on the lever EFG, and which is therefore a vertical force, as
identical with a force which acts at G, to support the body in
the inclined plane, and which is parallel to the plane.
53. When this kind of confusion was remedied, and when
men again acquired distinct notions of pressure, and of the
transmission of pressure from one point to another, the science of
Statics was formed by Stevinus, Galileo, and their successors“
!“.
Tho fundamental ideas of Mechanics being thus acquired,
and the requisite consequences of them stated in axioms, our
• Pappus, B. vin. Prop. ix. I purposely omit the confusion pro­
duced by this authors mode of treating the question, in which he
inquires the force which will draw a body up the inclined plane.
+ See History of the Inductive Sciences, B. vi. chap. i. sect. 2, On
the Revival of the Scientific Idea of Pressure.
6 1 6 ESSAY II.
reasonings proceed by the same rigorous line of demonstration,
and under the same logical rules as the reasonings of Geometry;
and we have a science of Statics which is, like Geometry, an
exact deductive science.
Sect. II.— On the Logic of Induction.
54. T here are other portions of Mechanics which require to
be considered in another manner; for in these there occur prin­
ciples which are derived directly and professedly from experi­
ment and observation. The derivation of principles by reasoning
from facts is performed by a process which is termed Induction,
which is very different from the process of Deduction already
noticed, and of which we shall attempt to point out the cha­
racter and method.
It has been usual to say of any general truths, established
by the consideration and comparison of several facts, that they
are obtained by Induction; but the distinctive character of this
process has not been well pointed out, nor have any rules been
laid down which may prescribe the form and ensure the validity
of the process, as has been done for Deductive reasoning by
common Logic. The Logic of Induction has not yet been con­
structed ; a few remarks on this subject are all that can be
offered here.
55. The Inductive Propositions, to which we shall here
principally refer as examples of their class, are those elementary
principles which occur in considering the motion of bodies, and
of which some are called the Laws of Motion *. They are such
as these;— a body not acted on by any force will move on for
ever uniformly in a straight line;— gravity is a uniform force;—
if a body in motion be acted upon by any force, the effect of
the force will be compounded with the previous motion ;— when
a body communicates motion to another directly, the momentum
lost by the first body is equal to the momentum gained by the
second. And I remark, in the first place, that in colleciing
such propositions from facts, there occurs a step corresponding
to the term 4
4Induction," (*Traywyrj, inductio). Some notion
is superinduced upon the observed facts. In each inductive
process, there is some general idea introduced, which is given,
* Inductive Propositions [in the Mechanical Euclid] are, Bookn.
Propositions 25, 20, 32, 36, 37: Book m. Prop. 2, 3, 8, 13.
ON MATHEMATICAL REASONING. 6 1 7
not by the phenomena, but by the mind. The conclusion is
not contained in the premises, but includes them by the intro­
duction of a new generality. In order to obtain our inference,
we travel beyond the cases we have before us; we consider them
as exemplifications of, or deviations from, some ideal case in
which the relations are complete and intelligible. We take a
standard, and measure the facts by i t ; and this standard is
created by us, not offered by Nature. Thus we assert, that a
body left to itself will move on with unaltered velocity, not
because our senses ever disclosed to us a body doing this, but
because (taking this as our ideal case) we find that all actual
cases are intelligible and explicable by means of the notion of
forces which cause change of motion, and which are exerted by
surrounding bodies. In like manner, we see bodies striking
each other, and thus moving, accelerating, retarding, and stop­
ping each other; but in all this, we do not, by our senses,
perceive that abstract quantity, momentum, which is always lost
by one as it is gained by another. This momentum is a crea­
tion of the mind, brought in among the facts, in order to
convert their apparent confusion into order, their seeming
chance into certainty, their perplexing variety into simplicity.
This the idea of momentum gained and lost does; and, in like
manner, in any other case in which inductive truths are estab­
lished, some idea is introduced, as the means of passing from
the facts to the truth.
56. The process of mind of which we here speak can only
be described by suggestion and comparison. One of the most
common of such comparisons, especially since the time of Bacon,
is that which speaks of induction as the interpretation of facts.
Such an expression is appropriate; and it may easily bo seen
that it includes the circumstance which we are now noticing;— .
the superinduction of an idea upon the facts by the interpreting
mind. For when we read a page, we have before our eyes only
black and white, form and colour; but by an act of the mind,
we transform these perceptions into thought and emotion. The
letters are nothing of themselves; they contain no truth, if the
mind does not contribute its share: for instance, if we do not
know the language in which the words are written. And if we
are imperfectly acquainted with the language, we become very
clearly aware how much a certain activity of the mind is requisite
in order to convert the words into propositions, by the extreme
6 1 8 ESSAY II.
effort which the business of interpretation requires. Induction,
then, may be conveniently described as the interpretation of
phenomena.
57. But I observe further, that in thus inferring truths
from facts, it is not only necessary that the mind should con­
tribute to the task its own idea, but, in order that the proposi­
tions thus obtained may have any exact import and scientific
value, it is requisite that the idea be perfectly distinct and pre­
cise. If it be possible to obtain some vague apprehension of
truths, while the ideas in which they are expressed remain indis­
tinct and ill-defined, such knowledge cannot be available for the
purposes we here contemplate. In order to construct a science,
all our fundamental ideas must be distinct; and among them,
those which Induction introduces.
58. This necessity for distinctness in the ideas which we
employ in Induction, makes it proper to define, in a precise and
exact manner, each idea when it is thus brought forwards. Thus,
in establishing the propositions which we have stated as our
examples in these cases, we have to define force in general;
uniform force ; compounding of motions; momentum. The con­
struction of these definitions is an essential part of the process
of Induction, no less than the assertion of the inductive truth
itself.
59. But in order to justify and establish the inference
which we make, the ideas which we introduce must not only be
distinct, but also appropriate. They must be exactly and closely
applicable to the facts; so that when the idea is in our posses­
sion, and the facts under our notice, we perceive that the former
includes and takes up the latter. The idea is only a more pre­
cise mode of apprehending the facts, and it is empty and un­
meaning if it be anything else ; but if it be thus applicable, the
proposition which is asserted by means of it is true, precisely
because the facts are facts. When we have defined force to be
the cause of change of motion, we see that, as we remove exter­
nal forces, we do, in actual experiments, remove all the change
of motion; and therefore the proposition that there is in bodies
no internal cause of change of motion, is true. When we have
defined momentum to be the product of the velocity and quantity
of matter, we see that in the actions of bodies, the effect in­
creases as the momentum increases; and by measurement, we
find that the effect may consistently be measured by the momen-
ON MATHEMATICAL REASONING. 6 1 9
turn. The ideas here employed are not only distinct in the
mind, but applicable in the world; they are the elements, not
only of relations of thought, but of laws of nature.
60. Thus an inductive inference requires an idea from within,
facts from without, and a coincidence of the two. The idea
must be distinct, otherwise we obtain no scientific truth ; it
must be appropriate, otherwise the facts cannot be steadily con­
templated by means of i t ; and when they are so contemplated,
the Inductive Proposition must be seen to be verified by the
evidence of sense.
It appears from what has been said, that in establishing a
proposition by Induction, the definition of the idea and the
assertion of the truth, are not only both requisite, but they are
correlative. Each of the two steps contains the verification and
justification of the other. The proposition derives its meaning
from the definition; the definition derives its reality from the
proposition. If they are separated, the definition is arbitrary
or empty, the proposition is vague or verbal.
61. Hence we gather, that in the Inductive Sciences, our
Definitions and our Elementary Inductive Truths ought to be
introduced together. There is no value or meaning in definitions,
except with reference to the truths which they are to express.
Discussions about the definitions of any science, taken separately,
cannot therefore be profitable, if the discussion do not refer,
tacitly or expressly, to the fundamental truths of the science;
and in alb such discussions it should be stated what are taken as
the fundamental truths. With such a reference to Elementary
Inductive Truths clearly understood, the discussion of Definitions
may be the best method of arriving at that clearness of thought,
and that arrangement of facts, which Induction requires.
I will now note some of the differences which exist between
Inductive and Deductive Reasoning, in the modes in which they
are presented.
62. One leading difference in these two kinds of reasoning
is, that in Deduction we infer particular from general truths; in
Induction, on the contrary, we infer general from particular.
Deductive proofs consist of many steps, in each of which we
apply known general propositions in particular cases;— “ all
triangles have their angles equal to two right angles, therefore
this triangle has; therefore, &c.” In Induction, on the other
hand, we have a single step in which we pass from many par-
6 2 0 ESSAY II.
ticular Propositions to one general proposition ; 4
4This stone
falls downwards ; so do those others ;— all stones fall down­
wards.” And the former inference flows necessarily from the
relation of general and particular ; but the latter, as we have
seen, derives its power of convincing from the introduction of a
new idea, which is distinct and appropriate, and which supplies
that generality which the particulars cannot themselves offer.
63. I observe also that this difference of process in induc­
tive and deductive proofs, may be most properly marked by a
difference in the form in which they are stated. In Deduction,
the Definition stands at the beginning of the proposition ; in
Induction, it may most suitably stand at or near the end. Thus
the definition of a uniform force is introduced in the course of
the proposition that gravity is a uniform force. And this
arrangement represents truly the real order of proof ; for, his­
torically speaking, it was taken for granted that gravity was a
uniform force ; but the question remained, what was the right
definition of a uniform force. And in the establishment of other
inductive principles, in like manner, definitions cannot be laid
down for any useful purpose, till we know the propositions in
which they are to be used. They may therefore properly come
each at the conclusion of its corresponding proposition.
64. The ideas and definitions which are thus led to by our
inductive process, may bring with them Axioms. Such Axioms
may be self-evident as soon as the inductive idea has been dis­
tinctly apprehended, in the same manner as was explained re­
specting the fundamental ideas of Geometry and Statics. And
thus Axioms, as well as Definitions, may come at the end of
our Inductive Propositions ; and they thus assume their proper
place at the beginning of the deductive propositions which follow
them, and are proved from them. Thus, in Book m., Axioms
8 and 9, come after the definition of Accelerating Force, and
stand between Props. 14 and 15.
65. Another peculiarity in inductive reasoning may be
noticed. In a deductive demonstration, the reference is always
to what has been already proved ; in establishing an Inductive
Principle, it is most convenient that the reference should be to
subsequent propositions. For the proof of the Inductive Prin­
ciple consists in this ;— that the principle being adopted, con­
sequences follow which agree with fact ; but the demonstration of
these consequences may require many steps, and several special
ON MATHEMATICAL REASONING. 621
propositions. Thus the Inductive Principle, that gravity is a uni­
form force, is established by shewing that the law of descent,
which falling bodies follow in fact, is explained by means of this
principle; namely, the law that the space is as the square of the
time from the beginning of the motion. But the proof of such
a property, from the definition of a uniform force, requires many
steps, as may be seen [in the Mechanical Euclid], B. ni. Pr. 5 :
and this proof must be referred to, along with several others, in
order to establish the truth, that gravity is a uniform force.
66. It may be suggested, that, this being the case, the
propositions might be transposed, so that the inductive proof
might come after those propositions to which it refers. But if
this were done, all the propositions which depend upon the laws
of motion must be proved hypothetically only. For instance, we
must say, 4
4If, in the communication of motion, the momentum
lost and gained be equal, the velocity acquired by a body falling
down an inclined plane, will be equal to that acquired by falling
down the height.” This would be inconvenient, and even if it
were done, that completeness in the line of demonstration which
is the object of the change, could not be obtained; for the
transition from the particular cases to the general truth, which
must occur in the Inductive Proposition, could not be in any
way justified according to rules of Deductive Logic. _
I have, therefore, in the preceding pages, placed the Induc­
tive Principle first in each line of reasoning; and have ranged
after it the Deductions from it, which justify and establish it as
their first office, but which are more important as its conse­
quences and applications, after it is supposed to be established.
67. I have used one common formula in presenting the
proof of each of the Inductive Principles which I have intro­
duced ;— namely, after stating or exemplifying the facts which
the induction includes, I have added 4
4These results can be
clearly explained and rigorously deduced by introducing the Idea
or the Definition” which belongs to each case, 4
4and the Prin­
ciple” which expresses the inductive truth. 1 do not mean to
assert that this formula is the only right one, or even the best;
but it appears to me to bring under notice the main circum­
stances which render an induction systematic and valid.
68. It may be observed, however, that this formula does
not express the full cogency of the proof. It declares only that
the results can be clearly explained and rigorously deduced by
6 2 2 ESSAY II.
the employment of a certain definition and a certain proposition.
But in order to make the conclusion demonstrative, we ought to
be able to declare that the results can be clearly explained and
rigorously deduced only by the definition and proposition which
we adopt. And, in reality, the mathematician’s conviction of
the truth of the Laws of Motion does depend upon his seeing
that they (or laws equivalent to them) afford the only means of
clearly expressing and deducing the actual facts. But this con­
viction, that no other law than those proposed can account for
the known facts, finds its place in the mind gradually, as the
contemplation of the consequences of the law and the various
relations of the facts becomes steady and familiar. I have
therefore not thought it proper to require such a conviction
along with the first assent to the inductive truths which 1 have
here stated.
69. The propositions established by Induction are termed
Principles, because they are the starting points of trains of
deductive reasoning. In the system of deduction, they occupy
the same place as axioms ; and accordingly they are termed so
by Newton— “ Axiomata sive leges motus.” Stewart objects
strongly to this expression* : and it would be difficult to justify
it; although to draw the line between axioms and inductive
principles may be a harder task than at first appears.
70. But from the consideration that our Inductive Pro­
positions are the principles or beginnings of our deductive rea­
soning, and so far at least stand in the place of axioms, we may
gather this lesson,— that they are not to be multiplied without
necessity. For instance, if in a treatise on Hydrostatics, we
should state as two separate propositions, that “ air has weight;4
"
and that “ the mercury in the barometer is sustained by the
weight of the air;” and should prove both the one and the
other by reference to experiment; we should offend against the
maxims of Logic. These propositions are connected; the latter
may be demonstrated deductively from the former; the former
may be inferred inductively from the facts which prove the latter.
One of these two courses ought to be adopted; we ought not
to have two ends of our reasoning upwards, or two beginnings
of our reasoning downwards.
71. I shall not now extend these Remarks further. They
may appear to many barren and unprofitable speculations; but
• Elem. P hil Human Mind, Yol. ii. p. 44.
ON MATHEMATICAL REASONING. 6 2 3
those who are familiar with such subjects, will perhaps find in
them something which, if well founded, is not without some
novelty for the English reader. Such will, I think, be the case,
if I have satisfied him,— that mathematical truth depends on
axioms as well as definitions,— that the evidence of geometrical
axioms is to be found only in the distinct possession of the idea
o f space,— that other branches of mathematics also depend on
axioms,— and that the evidence of these axioms is to be sought
in some appropriate idea ;— that the evidence of the axioms of
statics, for instance, resides in the ideas of force and matter;—
that in the process of induction the mind must supply an idea in
addition to the facts apprehended by the senses;— that in each
such process we must introduce one or more definitions, as well
as a proposition ;— that the definition and the proposition are
correlative, neither being useful or valid without the other;—
and that the formula of inductive reasoning must be in many
respects the reverse of the common logical formuke of deduc­
tion.
ESSAY III.
DEMONSTRATION THAT ALL MATTER IS HEAVY*.
The discussion of the nature of the grounds and proofs of
the most general propositions which the physical sciences in­
clude, belongs rather to Metaphysics than to that course of
experimental and mathematical investigation by which the
sciences are formed. But such discussions seem by no means
unfitted to occupy the attention of the cultivators of physical
science. The ideal, as well as the experimental side of our
knowledge must be carefully studied and scrutinized, in order
that its true import may be seen ; and this province of human
speculation has been perhaps of late unjustly depreciated and
neglected by men of science. Yet it can be prosecuted in the
most advantageous manner by them only : for no one can
speculate securely and rightly respecting the nature and proofs
of the truths of science without a steady possession of some
large and solid portions of such truths. A man must be a
mathematician, a mechanical philosopher, a natural historian, in
order that he may philosophize well concerning mathematics,
and mechanics, and natural history ; and the mere metaphy­
sician who without such preparation and fitness sets himself to
determine the grounds of mathematical or mechanical truths, or
the principles of classification, will be liable to be led into error
at every step. He must speculate by means of general terms,
which he will not be able to use as instruments of discovering
and conveying philosophical truth, because he cannot, in his
own mind, habitually and familiarly, embody their import in
special examples.
Acting upon such views, I have already laid before the Phi­
losophical Society of Cambridge essays on such subjects as I
here refer to ; especially a memoir “ On the Nature of the
Truth of the Laws of Motion,” which was printed by the
Society in its Transactions. This memoir appears to have
* From the Transactions of the Cambridge Philosophical Society,
Yol. vtt. Part it. N o. 12. [1841.]
DEMONSTRATION THAT ALL MATTER IS HEAVY. 6 2 5
excited in other places, notice of such a kind as to shew that
the minds of many speculative persons are ready for and inclined
towards the discussion of such questions. I am therefore the
more willing to bring under consideration another subject of a
kind closely related to the one just mentioned.
The general questions which all such discussions suggest, are
(in the existing phase of English philosophy) whether certain
proposed scientific truths, (as the laws of motion,) be necessary
truths; and if they are necessary, (which I have attempted to
shew that in a certain sense they are,) on what ground their
necessity rests. These questions may be discussed in a general
form, as I have elsewhere attempted to shew. But it may be
instructive also to follow the general arguments into the form
which they assume in special cases; and to exhibit, in a dis­
tinct shape, the incongruities into which the opposite false doc­
trine leads us, when applied to particular examples. This
accordingly is what I propose to do in the present memoir, with
regard to the proposition stated at the head of this Essay,
namely, that all matter is heavy.
A t first sight it may appear a doctrine altogether untenable
to assert that this proposition is a necessary truth: for, it may
be urged, we have no difficulty in conceiving matter which is
not heavy ; so that matter without weight is a conception not
inconsistent with itself; which it must be if the reverse were a
necessary truth. It may be added, that the possibility of con­
ceiving matter without weight was shewn in the controversy
which ended in the downfall of the phlogiston theory of chemical
composition; for some of the reasoners on this subject asserted
phlogiston to be a body with positive levity instead of gravity,
which hypothesis, however false, shews that such a supposition is
possible. Again, it may be said that weight and inertia are two
separate properties of matter: that mathematicians measure
the quantity of matter by the inertia, and that we learn by
experiment only that the weight is proportional to the inertia ;
Newton's experiments with pendulums of different materials
having been made with this very object.
1 proceed to reply to these arguments. And first, as to
the possibility of conceiving matter without weight, and the
argument thence deduced, that the universal gravity of matter
is not a necessary truth, I remark, that it is indeed just, to
say that we cannot even distinctly conceive the contrary of a
VOL. II. W. P. S s
62G ESSAY III.
necessary truth to be true ; but that this impossibility can be
asserted only of those perfectly distinct conceptions which result
from a complete development of the fundamental idea and its
consequences. Till we reach this stage of development, the
obscurity and indistinctness may prevent our perceiving absolute
contradictions, though they exist. We have abundant store of
examples of this, even in geometry and arithmetic ; where the
truths are universally allowed to be necessary, and where the
relations which are impossible, are also inconceivable, that is,
not conceivable distinctly. Such relations, though not distinctly
conceivable, still often appear conceivable and possible, owing to
the indistinctness of our ideas. Who, at the first outset of his
geometrical studies, sees any impossibility in supposing the side
and the diagonal of a square to have a common measure l Yet
they can be rigorously proved to be incommensurable, and
therefore the attempt distinctly to conceive a common measure
of them must fail. The attempts at the geometrical duplication
of the cube, and the supposed solutions, (as that of Hobbes)
have involved absolute contradictions ; yet this has not pre­
vented their being long and obstinately entertained by men,
even of minds acute and clear in other respects. And the
same might be shewn to be the case in arithmetic. It is plain,
therefore, that we cannot, from the supposed possibility of con­
ceiving matter without weight, infer that the contrary may not
be a necessary truth.
Our power of judging, from the compatibility or incom­
patibility of our conceptions, whether certain propositions re­
specting the relations of ideas are true or not, must depend
entirely, as I have said, upon the degree of development which
such ideas have undergone in our minds. Some of the relations
of our conceptions on any subject are evident upon the first
steady contemplation of the fundamental idea by a sound mind:
these are the axioms of the subject. Other propositions may
be deduced from the axioms by strict logical reasoning. These
propositions are no less necessary than the axioms, though to
common minds their evidence is very different. Yet as we
become familiar with the steps by which these ulterior truths
are deduced from the axioms, their truth also becomes evident,
and the contrary becomes inconceivable. When a person has
familiarized himself with the first twenty-six propositions of
Euclid, and not till then, it becomes evident to him, that parai-
DEMONSTRATION THAT ALL MATTER IS HEAVY. G27
lelograms on the same base and between the same parallels are
equal ; and he cannot even conceive the contrary. When he
has a little further cultivated his geometrical powers, the
equality of the square on the hypothenuse of a right-angled
triangle to the squares on the sides, becomes also evident; the
steps by which it is demonstrated being so familiar to the mind
as to be apprehended without a conscious act. And thus, the
contrary of a necessary truth cannot be distinctly conceived;
but the incapacity of forming such a conception is a condition
which depends upon cultivation, being intimately connected with
the power of rapidly and clearly perceiving the connection of
the necessary truth under consideration with the elementary
principles on which it depends. And thus, again, it may be
that there is an absolute impossibility of conceiving matter
without weight; but then, this impossibility may not be appa­
rent, till we have traced our fundamental conceptions of matter
into some of their consequences.
The question then occurs, whether we can, by any steps of
reasoning, point out an inconsistency in the conception of
matter without weight. This I conceive we may do, and this I
shall attempt to shew.
The general mode of stating the argument is this:— the
quantity of matter is measured by those sensible properties of
matter which undergo quantitative addition, subtraction and
division, as the matter is added, subtracted and divided. The
quantity of matter cannot be known in any other way. But
this mode of measuring the quantity of matter, in order to be
true at all, must be universally true. If it were only partially
true, the limits within which it is to be applied would be arbi­
trary; and therefore the whole procedure would be arbitrary, and,
as a method of obtaining philosophical truth, altogether futile.
We may unfold this argument further. Let the contrary
be supposed, of that which we assert to be true : namely, let it
be supposed that while all other kinds of matter are heavy, (and
of course heavy in proportion to the quantity of matter) there
is one kind of matter which is absolutely destitute of weight;
as, for instance, phlogiston, or any other element. Then where
this weightiest element (as we may term it) is mixed with weighty
elements, we shall have a compound, in which the weight is no
longer proportional to the quantity of matter. If, for example,
2 measures of heavy matter unite with 1 measure of phlogiston,
S S 2
6 2 8 ESSAY III.
the weight is as 2, and the quantity of matter as 3. In all
such cases, therefore, the weight ceases to be the measure of
the quantity of matter. And as the proportion of the weighty
and the weightless matter may vary in innumerable degrees in
such compounds, the weight affords no criterion at all of the
quantity of matter in them. And the smallest admixture of
the weightless element is sufficient to prevent the weight from
being taken as the measure of the quantity of matter.
But on this hypothesis, how are wo to distinguish such
compounds from bodies consisting purely of heavy matter! How
are we to satisfy ourselves that there is not, in every body,
some admixture, small or great, of the weightless element ? If
we call this element phlogiston, how shall we know that the bodies
with which we have to do are, any of them, absolutely free from
phlogiston l
We cannot refer to the weight for any such assurance;
for by supposition the presence and absence of phlogiston makes
no difference in the weight. Nor can any other properties
secure us at least from a very small admixture; for to assert
that a mixture of 1 in 100 or 1 in 10 of phlogiston would
always manifest itself in the properties of the body, must be
an arbitrary procedure, till we have proved this assertion by
experiment: and we cannot do this till we have learnt some
mode of measuring the quantities of matter in bodies and parts
of bodies ; which is exactly what we question the possibility of,
in the present hypothesis.
Thus, if we assume the existence of an element, phlogiston,
devoid of weight, we cannot bo sure that every body does not
contain some portion of this element; while we see that if there
be an admixture of such an element, the weight is no longer
any criterion of the quantity of matter. And thus we have
proved, that if there be any kind of matter which is not heavy,
the weight can no longer avail us, in any case or to any extent,
as a measure of the quantity of matter.
I may remark, that the same conclusion is easily extended
to the case in which phlogiston is supposed to have absolute
levity; for in that case, a certain mixture of phlogiston and of
heavy matter would have no weight, and might be substituted
for phlogiston in the preceding reasoning.
I may remark, also, that the same conclusion would follow
by the same reasoning, if any kind of matter, instead of being
DEMONSTRATION THAT ALL MATTER IS HEAVY. G29
void of weight, were heavy, indeed, but not so heavy, in propor­
tion to its quantity of matter, as other kinds.
On all these hypotheses there would be no possibility of
measuring quantity of matter by weight at all, in any case, or
to any extent.
But it may be urged, that we have not yet reduced the
hypothesis of matter without weight to a contradiction; for
that mathematicians measure quantity of matter, not by weight,
but by the other property, of which we have spoken, inertia.
To this I reply, that, practically speaking, quantity of
matter is always measured by weight, both by mechanicians and
chemists : and as we have proved that this procedure is utterly
insecure in all cases, on the hypothesis of weightless matter, the
practice rests upon a conviction that the hypothesis is false.
And yet the practice is universal. Every experimenter mea­
sures quantity of matter by the balance. No one has ever
thought of measuring quantity of matter by its inertia practi­
cally : no one has constructed a measure of quantity of matter
in which the matter produces its indications of quantity by its
motion. When we have to take into account the inertia of a
body, we inquire what its weight is, and assume this as the mea­
sure of the inertia; but we never take the contrary course, and
ascertain the inertia first in order to determine by that means
the weight.
But it may be asked, Is it not then true, and an important
scientific truth, that the quantity of matter is measured by the
inertia ? Is it not true, and proved by experiment, that the
weight is proportional to the inertia f If this be not the result
of Newton's experiments mentioned above, what, it may be
demanded, do they prove ?
To these questions I reply : It is true that quantity of
matter is measured by the inertia, for it is true that inertia is
as the quantity of matter. This truth is indeed one of the laws
of motion. That weight is proportional to inertia is proved by
experiment, as far as the laws of motion are so proved: and
Newton’s experiments prove one of the laws of motion, so far as
any experiments can prove them, or are needed to prove them.
That inertia is proportional to weight, is a law equivalent to
that law which asserts, that when pressure produces motion in
a given body, the velocity produced in a given time is as the
pressure. For if the velocity be as the pressure, when the body
630 ESSAY III.
is given, the velocity will be constant if the inertia also be as
the pressure. For the inertia is understood to be that pro­
perty of bodies to which, ceteris paribus, the velocity impressed
is inversely proportional. One body has twice as much inertia
as another, if, when the same force acts upon it for the same
time, it acquires but half the velocity. This is the fundamen­
tal conception of inertia.
In Newton's pendulum experiments, the pressure producing
motion was a certain resolved part of the weight, and was pro­
portional to the weight. It appeared by the experiments, that
whatever were the material of which the pendulum was formed,
the rate of oscillation was the same; that is, the velocity ac­
quired was the same. Hence the inertia of the different bodies
must have been in each case as the weight: and thus this asser­
tion is true of all different kinds of bodies.
Thus it appears that the assertion, that inertia is universally
proportional to weight, is equivalent to the law of motion, that
the velocity is as the pressure. The conception of inertia (of
which, as we have said, the fundamental conception is, that the
velocity impressed is inversely proportional to the inertia,) con­
nects the two propositions so as to make them identical.
Hence our argument with regard to the universal gravity of
matter brings us to the above law of motion, and is proved by
Newton's experiments in the same sense in which that law
of motion is so proved.
Perhaps some persons might conceive that the identity of
weight and inertia is obvious at once; for both are merely
resistance to motion;— inertia, resistance to all motion (or
change of motion)— weight, resistance to motion upwards.
But there is a difference in these two kinds of resistance to
motion. Inertia is instantaneous, weight is continuous resist­
ance. Any momentary impulse which acts upon a free body
overcomes its inertia, for it changes its motion ; and this change
once effected, the inertia opposes any return to the former con­
dition, as well as any additional change. The inertia is tbu9
overcome by a momentary force. But the weight can only be
overcome by a continuous force like itself. If an impulse act in
opposition to the weight, it may for a moment neutralize or
overcome the weight; but if it be not continued, the weight
resumes its effect, and restores the condition which existed
before the impulse acted.
But weight not only produces rest, when it is resisted, but
motion, when it is not resisted. Weight is measured by the
reaction which would balance i t ; but when unbalanced, it pro­
duces motion, and the velocity of this motion increases con­
stantly. Now what determines the velocity thus produced in a
given time, or its rate of increase l What determines it to have
one magnitude rather than another! To this we must evidently
reply, the inertia. When weight produces motion, the inertia
is the reaction which makes the motion determinate. The
accumulated motion produced by the action of unbalanced weight
is as determinate a condition as the equilibrium produced by
balanced weight. In both cases the condition of the body acted
on is determined by the opposition of the action and reaction.
Hence inertia is the reaction which opposes the weight,
when unbalanced. But by the conception of action and reaction,
(as mutually determining and determined,) they are measured
by each other: and hence the inertia is necessarily propor­
tional to the weight.
But when we have reached this conclusion, the original
objection may be again urged against it. It may be said, that
there must be some fallacy in this reasoning, for it proves a state
of things to be necessary when we can so easily conceive a con­
trary state of things. Is it denied, the opponent may ask, that
we can readily imagine a state of things in which bodies have no
weight \ Is not the uniform tendency of all bodies in the same
direction not only not necessary, but not even true l For they
do in reality tend, not with equal forces in parallel lines, but to
a center with unequal forces, according to their position: and
we can conceive these differences of intensity and direction
in the force to be greater than they really a r e a n d can with
equal ease suppose the force to disappear altogether.
To this I reply, that certainly we may conceive the weight
of bodies to vary in intensity and direction, and by an additional
effort of imagination, may conceive the weight to vanish : but
that in all these suppositions, even in the extreme one, we must
suppose the rule to be universal. If any bodies have weight, all
bodies must have weight. If the direction of weight be differ­
ent in different points, this direction must still vary according to
the late of continuity; and the same is true of the intensity
of the weight. For if this were not so, the rest and motion,
the velocity and direction, the permanence and change of bodies,
DEMONSTRATION THAT ALL MATTER IS HEAVY. 6 31
6 3 2 ESSAY III.
as to their mechanical condition, would be arbitrary and inco­
herent : they would not be subject to mechanical ideas; that is,
not to ideas at all: and hence these conditions of objects would
in fact be inconceivable. In order that the universe may be
possible, that is, may fall under the conditions of intelligible
conceptions, we must be able to conceive a body at rest. But
the rest of bodies (except in the absolute negation of all force)
implies the equilibrium of opposite forces. And one of these
opposite forces must be a general force, as weight, in order that
the universe may be governed by general conditions. And this
general force, by the conception of force, may produce motion,
as well as equilibrium; and this motion again must be deter­
mined, and determined by general conditions; which cannot be,
except the communication of motion be regulated by an inertia
proportional to the weight.
But it will be asked, Is it then pretended that Newton's
experiment, by which it was intended to prove inertia propor­
tional to weight, does really prove nothing but what may be
demonstrated a priori ? Could we know, without experiment,
that all bodies,— gold, iron, wood, cork,— have inertia propor­
tional to their weight! And to this we reply, that experiment
holds the same place in the establishment of this, as of the other
fundamental doctrines of mechanics. Intercourse with the
external world is requisite for developing our ideas; measure­
ment of phenomena is needed to fix our conceptions and to
render them precise: but the result of our experimental studies
is, that we reach a position in which our convictions do not rest
upon experiment. We learn by observation truths of which we
afterwards see the necessity. This is the case with the laws of
motion, as I have repeatedly endeavoured to shew. The same
will appear to be the case with the proposition, that bodiea of
different kinds have their inertia proportional to their weight.
For bodies of the same kind have their inertia proportional
to their weight, both quantities being proportional to the quan­
tity of matter. And if we compress the same quantity of matter
into half the space, neither the weight nor the inertia is altered,
because these depend on the quantity of matter alone. But in
this way we obtain a body of twice the density; and in the same
manner we obtain a body of any other density. Therefore
whatever be the density, the inertia is proportional to the quan­
tity of matter. But the mechanical relations of bodies cannot
DEMONSTRATION THAT ALL MATTER IS HEAVY. 6 3 3
depend upon any difference of kind, except a difference of den­
sity. For if we suppose any fundamental difference of mecha­
nical nature in the particles or component elements of bodies,
we are led to the same conclusion, of arbitrary, and therefore
impossible, results, which we deduced from this supposition with
regard to weight. Therefore all bodies of different density, and
hence, all bodies whatever, must have their inertia proportional
to their weight.
Hence we see, that the propositions, that all bodies are
heavy, and that inertia is proportional to weight, necessarily
follow from those fundamental ideas which we unavoidably
employ in all attempts to reason concerning the mechanical rela­
tions of bodies. This conclusion may perhaps appear the more
startling to many, because they have been accustomed to expect
that fundamental ideas and their relations should be self-evident
at our first contemplation of them. This, however, is far from
being the case, as I have already shewn. It is not the first,
but the most complete and developed condition of our concep­
tions, which enables us to see what are axiomatic truths in each
province of human speculation. Our fundamental ideas are
necessary conditions of knowledge, universal forms of intuition,
inherent types of mental development; they may even be termed,
if any one chooses, results of connate intellectual tendencies;
but we cannot term them innate ideas, without calling up a
large array of false opinions. For innate ideas were considered
as capable of composition, but by no means of simplification : as
most perfect in their original condition; as to be found, if any
where, in the most uneducated and most uncultivated minds ; as
the same in all ages, nations, and stages of intellectual culture;
as capable of being referred to at once, and made the basis of
our reasonings, without any special acuteness or effort : in all
which circumstances the Fundamental Ideas of which we have
spoken, are opposed to Innate Ideas so understood.
I shall not, however, here prosecute this subject. I will
only remark, that Fundamental Ideas, as we view them, are not
only not innate, in any usual or useful sense, but they are not
necessarily ultimate elements of our knowledge. They are the
results of our analysis so far as we have yet prosecuted i t ; but
they may themselves subsequently be analysed. It may here­
after appear, that what we have treated as different Funda­
mental Ideas have, in fact, a connexion, at some point below the
6 3 4 ESSAY III.
structure which we erect upon them. For instance, we treat
of the mechanical ideas of force, matter, and the like, as distinct
from the idea of substance. Yet the principle of measuring the
quantity of matter by its weight, which we have deduced from
mechanical ideas, is applied determine the substances which
enter into the composition of bodies. The idea of substance
supplies the axiom, that the whole quantity of matter of a com­
pound body is equal to the sum of the quantities of matter of
its elements. The mechanical ideas of force and matter lead
us to infer that the quantity both of the whole and its parts
must be measured by their weights. Substance may, for some
purposes, be described as that to which properties belong;
matter in like manner may be described as that which resists
force. The former involves the Idea of permanent Being; the
latter, the Idea of Causation. There may be some elevated
point of view from which these ideas may be seen to run toge­
ther. But even if this be so, it will by no means affect the
validity of reasonings founded upon these notions, when duly
determined and developed. If we once adopt a view of the
nature of knowledge which makes necessary truth possible at
all, we need be little embarrassed by finding how closely con­
nected different necessary truths are; and how often, in ex­
ploring towards their roots, different branches appear to spring
from the same stem.
ESSAY IV.
DISCUSSION OF THE QUESTIONARE CAUSE AND EFFECT-
SUCCESSIVE OR SIMULTANEOUS*?
I have at various times laid before this Society disserta­
tions on the metaphysical grounds and elements of our know­
ledge, and especially on the foundations of the science of
Mechanics. As these speculations have not failed to excite
Borne attention, both here and elsewhere, I am tempted to
bring forward in the same manner some additional disquisitions
of the same kind. Indeed, the immediate occasion of the
present memoir is of itself an evidence that such subjects are
not supposed to be without their interest for the general reader ;
for I am led to the views and reasonings which I am now about
to lay before the Society, by some remarks in one of our most
popular Reviews, ( The Quarterly Review, Article on the History
and Philosophy of the Inductive Sciences. June 1841.) A
writer of singular acuteness and comprehensiveness of view has
there made remarks upon the doctrines which I had delivered
in the “ Philosophy of the Inductive Sciences,1
1 which remarks
appear to me in the highest degree instructive and philosophical.
I am not, however, going here to discuss fully the doctrines
contained in this critique. With respect to its general ten-
tency, I will only observe, that the author does not accept, in
the form in which I had given it, the account of the origin and
ground of necessary and universal truths. I had stated that
our knowledge is derived from Sensations and Ideas ; and that
Ideas, which are the conditions of perception, such as space,
time, likeness, cause, make universal and necessary knowledge
possible; whereas, if knowledge were derived from Sensation
alone, it could not have those characters. I have moreover
enumerated a long series of Fundamental Ideas as the bases of
a corresponding series of sciences, of which sciences I have
shown also, by an historical survey, that they claim to possess
universal truths, and have their claims allowed. I have gone
* From the Transactions of the Cambridge Philosophical Society,
V ol. vir. Part nr. No. 18. [1842.]
6 3 6 ESSAY IV.
further: for I have stated the Axioms which flow from these
Fundamental Ideas, and which are the logical grounds of neces­
sity and universality in the truths of each science, when the
science is presented in the form of a demonstrated system.
The Reviewer does not assent to this doctrine, nor to the
argument by which it is supported ; namely, that Experience
cannot lead to universal truths, except by means of a universal
Idea supplied by the mind, and infused into the particular facts
which observation ministers. He considers that the existence
of universal truths in our knowledge may be explained other­
wise. He holds that it is a sufficient account of the matter to
say that we pass from special experience to universal truth in
virtue of “ the inductive propensity— the irresistible impulse of
the mind to generalize ad i n f i n i t u m I shall not here dwell
upon very strong reasons which may be assigned, as I conceive,
for not accepting this as a full and satisfactory explanation of
the difficulty. Instead of doing so, I shall here content myself
with remarking, that even if we adopt the Reviewer’s expres­
sions, we must still contend that there are different forms of the
impulse of the mind to generalize, corresponding to each of the
Fundamental Ideas of our system. These Fundamental Ideas,
if they be nothing else, must at least be accepted as a classifica­
tion of the modes of action of the Inductive Propensity,— as so
many different paths and tendencies of the Generalizing Impulse:
and the Axioms which I have stated as the express results of
the Fundamental Ideas, and as the steps by which those Ideas
make universal truths possible, are still no less worthy of notice,
if they are stated as the results of our Generalizing Impulse;
and as the steps by which that Impulse, in its many various
forms, makes universal truths possible. The Generalizing Im­
pulse in that operation by which it leads us to the Axioms of
geometry, and to those of mechanics, takes very different courses;
and these courses may well deserve to be separately studied.
And perhaps, even if we accept this view of the philosophy of
our knowledge, no simpler or clearer way can be found of
describing and distinguishing these fundamentally different ope­
rations of the Inductive Propensity, than by saying, that in the
one case it proceeds according to the Idea of Space, in another
according to the Idea of Mechanical Cause; and the like phrase­
ology may be employed for all the other cases.
This then being understood, my present object is to consider
ON CAUSE AND EFFECT. 6 3 7
some very remarkable, and, as appears to me, novel views of the
Idea of Cause which the Reviewer propounds. And these may
be best brought under our discussion by considering them as an
attempt to solve the question, Whether, according to our
fundamental apprehensions of the relation of Cause and Effect,
effect follows cause in the order of time, or is simultaneous
with it.
At first sight, this question may seem to be completely
decided by our fundamental convictions respecting cause and
effect, and by the axioms which have been propounded by
almost all writers, and have obtained universal currency among
reasoners on this subject. That the cause must precede the
effect,— that the effect must follow the cause,— are, it might
seem, self-evident truths, assumed and assented to by all persons
in all reasonings in which those notions occur. Such a doctrine
is commonly asserted in general terms, and seems to be verified
in all the applications of the idea of cause. A heavy body pro­
duces motion by its weight; the motion produced is subsequent
in time to the pressure which the weight exerts. In a machine,
bodies push or strike each other, and so produce a series of
motions; each motion, in this case, is the result of the motions
and configurations which have preceded it. The whole series of
such motions employs tim e; and this time is filled up and mea­
sured by the series of causes and effects, the effects being, in
their turn, causes of other effects. This is the common mode
of apprehending the universal course of events, in which the
chain of causation, and the progress of time, are contemplated
as each the necessary condition and accompaniment of the
other.
But this, the Critic remarks, is not true in direct causation.
“ If the antecedence and consequence in question be understood
as the interposition of an interval of time, however small, be­
tween the action of the cause and the production of the effect,
we regard it as inadmissible. In the production of motion by
force, for instance, though the effect be cumulative with conti­
nued exertion of the cause, yet each elementary or individual
action is, to our apprehension, instanter accompanied with its
corresponding increment of momentum in the body moved. In
all dynamical reasonings no one has ever thought of interposing
an instant of time between the action and its resulting momen­
tum ; nor does it appear necessary.'” This is so evident, that it
0 3 8 ESSAY IV.
appears strange it should have the air of novelty; yet, so far as
I am aware, the matter has never before been put in the same
point of view. But this being the case, the question occurs,
how it is that time seems to be employed in the progress from
cause to effect! How is it that the opinion of the effect being
subsequent to the cause has generally obtained! And to this
the Critic’s answer is obvious:— it is so in cases of indirect or
of cumulative effect. If a ball A strikes another, B , and puts
it in motion, and B strikes C, and puts it in motion, J 'b impact
may be considered as the cause, though not the direct cause, of
(Tb motion. Now time, namely the time of 2?’s motion after it
is struck by A , and before it strikes C, intervenes between A'a
impact and the beginning of C
Tb motion: that is, between the
cause and its effect. In this sense, the effect is subsequent to
the cause. Again, if a body be put in motion by a series of
impulses acting at finite intervals of time, all in the same direc­
tion, the motion at the end of all these intervals is the effect of
all the impulses, and exists after they have all aoted. It is the
accumulated effect, and subsequent to each separate action of
the cause. But in this case, each impulse produces its effect
instantaneously, and the time is employed, not in the transition
from any cause to its effect, but in the intervals between the
action of the several causes, during which intervals the body
goes on with the velocity already communicated to it. In each
' impulse, force produces motion: and the motion goes on till a
new change takes place, by the same kind of action. The force
may be said, in the language employed by the Critic, to be
transformed into momentum; and in the successive impulses,
successive portions of force are thus transformed ; while in the
intervening intervals, the force thus transformed into momentum
is carried by the body from one place to another, where a new
change awaits it. u The cause is absorbed and transformed
into effect, and therein treasured up.” Hence, as the Writer
says, “ The time lost in cases of indirect physical causation is
that consumed in the movements which take place among the
parts of the mechanism set in action, by which the active forces
so transformed Into mechanism are transported over intervals
of space to new points of action, the motion of matter in such
cases being regarded as a mere carrier of force” :— and when
force is directly counteracted by force, their mutual destruction
must be conceived, as the Reviewer says, to be instantaneous.
ON CAUSK AND EFFECT. 6 3 9
W e can therefore hardly resist his conclusion, that men have
been misled in assuming sequence as a feature in the relation of
cause and effect; and we may readily assent to his suggestion,
that sequence, when observed, is to be held as a sure indication
of indirect action, accompanied with a movement of parts.
But yet if we turn for a moment to other kinds of causa­
tion, we seem to be compelled at every step to recognize the
truth of the usual maxim upon this subject, that effects are
subsequent to causes. Is not poison, taken at a certain moment,
the cause of disorder and death which follow at a subsequent
period? Is not a man's early prudence often the cause of his
prosperity in later life, and his folly, though for a moment it
may produce gratification, finally the cause of his ruin? And
even in the case of mechanism, if, in a clock which goes rightly,
we alter the length of the pendulum, is not this alteration the
cause of an alteration which afterwards takes place in the rate
of the clock’s going ? Are not all these, and innumerable other
cases, instances in which the usual notion of the effect following
the cause is verified l and are they not irreconcileable with the
new doctrine of cause and effect being simultaneous ?
In order to disentangle this apparent confusion, let us first
consider the case last mentioned, of a clock, in which Borne
alteration is made which affects the rate of going.
So long as the parts of the clock remain unaltered, its rate
will remain unaltered ; and any part which is considered as
capable of alteration, may be considered as, if we please, the
cause of the unaltered rate, by being itself unaltered. But wo
do not usually introduce the positive idea of cause, to correspond
with this negation of change. If we Bpeak of the rate as un­
* altered, we may also say that it is so because there is no cause
of alteration. The steady rate is the indication of the absence
of any cause of alteration; and the rate of going measures the
progress of time, in a state of things in which causes of change
are thus excluded. If an alteration takes place in any part of
the clock, once for all, the rate is altered; but the new rate is
steady as the old rate was, and, like it, measures the uniform
progress of time. But the difference between the new rate and
the old is occasioned by the difference of the parts of the clock ;
and the new rate may very properly be said to be caused by
the change of the parts, and to be subsequent to i t : for it does
prevail after the change, and does not prevail before.
640 ESSAY IV.
But how is this view to be reconciled with the one just
quoted from the Reviewer, and, as it appeared, satisfactorily
proved by him; according to which all mechanical effects axe
simultaneous with their causes, and not subsequent to them?
We have here the two views in close contact, and in seeming
opposition.
In the going of a clock, the parts are in motion ; and these
motions are determined by forces arising from the form and
connexion of the parts of the mechanism. Each of the forces
thus exerted at any instant produces its effect at the same
instant; and thus, so far as the term cause refers to such instan­
taneous forces, the cause and the effect are simultaneous. But
if such instantaneous forces act at successive intervals of time,
the motion during each interval is unaltered, and by its uniform
progress measures the progress of time. And thus the motion
of the machine consists of a series of intervals, during each of
which the motion is uniform, and measures the tim e; separated
from each other by a series of changes, at each of which the
change measures the instantaneous force, and is simultaneous
with it. And if, in this case, we suppose, at any point of time,
the instantaneous forces to cease, the succession of them being
terminated, from that point of time the motion would be uni­
form. And since the rate of the motion in each interval of
time is determined by the instantaneous force which last acted
and by the preceding motion, the rate of the motion in each
interval of time is determined by all the preceding instantaneous
forces. Hence, when the series of instantaneous forces stops,
the rate at which the motion goes on permanently, from that
point of time, is determined by the antecedent series of such
forces, which series may be considered as an aggregate cause;
and hence it appears, that the permanent effect is determined by
the aggregate cause; and in this sense the effect is subsequent to
the cause.
Thus we obtain, in this case, a solution of the difficulty
which is placed before us. The instantaneous effect or change
is simultaneous with the instantaneous force or cause by which
it is produced. But if we consider a series of such instanta­
neous forces as a single aggregate cause, and the final condition
as a permanent effect of this cause, the effect is subsequent to
the cause. In this case, the cause is immediately succeeded by
the effect. The cause acts in time : the effect goes on in time.
ON CAUSE AND EFFECT. 6 41
The times occupied by the cause and by the effect succeed each
other, the one ending at the point of time at which the other
begins. But the time which the cause occupies is really com­
posed of a series of instants of uniform motion interposed be­
tween instantaneous forces; and during the time that this series
of causes is going on, to make up the aggregate cause, a series
of effects is going on to make up the final effect. There is a
progressive cause and a progressive effect which go on together,
and occupy the same finite tim e; and this simultaneous pro­
gression is composed of all the simultaneous instantaneous steps
of cause and effect. The aggregate cause is the sum of the
progression of causes; the final effect is the last term of the
progression of effects. At each step, as the Reviewer says,
cause is transformed into effect; and it is treasured up in the
results during the intermediate intervals; and the time occupied
is not the time which intervenes between cause and effect at each
step, but the time which intervenes beween these transformations.
I have supposed forces to act at distinct instants, and to
cease to act in the intervals between ; and then, the aggregate
of such intervals to make up a finite time, during which an
aggregate force acts. But if the action of the force be rigor­
ously continuous, it will easily be seen that all the consequences
as to cause and effect will be the same; the discontinuous
action being merely the usual artifice by which, in mathematical
reasonings, we obtain results respecting continuous changes. It
will still be true, that the uniform motion which takes place
after a continuous force has acted, is the effect subsequent to
the cause; while the change which takes place at any instant
by the action of the force, is the instantaneous effect simulta­
neous with the cause.
It may be objected, that this solution does not appear
immediately to apply: for the motion of a clock is not uni­
form during any portion of the time. The parts move by
intervals of varied motion and of rest; or by oscillations back­
wards and forwards; and the succession of forces which acts
during any oscillation, or any cycle of motion, is repeated during
the succeeding oscillation or cycle, and so on indefinitely; and
if an alteration be made in the parts, it is not a change once
for all, but recurs in its operation in every cycle of the motion.
But it will be found that this circumstance does not prevent
the same explanation from being still applicable with a slight
W. P. VOL. II. T T
6 4 2 ESSAY IV.
modification. Instead of uniform motion in the intervals of
causation, we shall have to speak of steady going: and instead
of considering all the forces which affect the motion as causes of
change of uniform motion, we shall have to speak of changes in
the parts of the mechanism as causes of change of rate of going.
With this modification, it will still be true, that any instanta­
neous cause produces its instantaneous effect simultaneously,
while the permanent effect is subsequent to the change which is
its cause. The steady going of the clock is assumed as a nor­
mal condition, in which it measures the progress of tim e; and
in this assumption, the notion of cause and effect is not brought
into view. But a steady rate thus denoting the mean passage
of time, a change in the rate indicates a cause of change. The
change of rate, as an instantaneous transition from one rate to
another, is simultaneous with the change in the parts. But then
the changed rate as a continued condition in which, no new
change supervening, the rate again measures the progress of
time, is subsequent to the change of parts, for it begins when
that ends, and continues when the progress of that has ceased.
If, however, this be a satisfactory solution of the difficulty
in the case of mechanism, how shall we apply the same views to
the other cases ? Growth, the effect of food, is subsequent to the
act of taking food; disorder, the effect of poison, is subsequent
to the introduction of poison into the system. Can we say that
the animal would continue unchanged if it were not to take
food ; and that food is the cause of a change, namely, of growth!
This is manifestly false ; for if the animal were not to take food,
it would soon perish. But the analogy of the former case, of
the clock, will enable us to avoid this perplexity. As we
assumed a steady rate of going in the clock to be the measure
of time when we considered the effect of mechanism, so we
assume a steady rate of action in the animal functions to be the
measure of the progress of time when we consider the causes
which act upon the development and health of animals. Digestion,
and of course nutrition, are a part of this normal condition ; they
are involved in the steady going of the animal mechanism, and we
must suppose these functions to go regularly on, in order that the
animal may preserve its character of animal. Food and digestion
may be considered as causes of the continued existence of the
animal, in the same way in which the form of the parts of a
clock is the cause of the steady going of a clock. And when we
ON CAUSE AND EFFECT. 6 4 3
come to consider causes of change, this kind of causation, which
produces a normal condition of things, merely measuring the flow
of time, is left out of our account. We can conceive an uniform
condition of animal existence, the animal neither growing nor
wasting. This being taken as the normal condition, any devia­
tion from this condition indicates a cause, and is taken sjb the
evidence and measure of the cause of change. And thus, in a
growing animal, the food partly keeps the animal in continued
animal existence, and partly, and in addition to this, causes its
growth. Food, in the former view, is always circulating in the
system, and is supposed to be uniformly administered; the cycles
of nutrition being merged in the notion of uniform existence, as
the oscillations of the pendulum in a clock are merged in tho
notion of uniform going ; and the elementary steps of nutrition
which are, in this view, supposed to take place at each instant,
produce their instantaneous effect, for they are requisite in the
cycle of animal processes which goes on from instant to instant.
But on the other hand, in considering growth, we compare the
state of an animal with a preceding state, and consider the
nutriment taken in the intervening time as the cause of the
change: hence this nutriment, as an aggregate, is considered as
the cause of growth of the animal; and in this view the effect
is subsequent to the cause. But yet here, sjb in the case of
mechanism, the progressive effect is simultaneous, step by step,
with the progressive cause. There is a series of operations; as
for instance, intussusception, digestion, assimilation, growth:
each of these is a progressive operation ; and in the progress of
each operation, the steps of the effect and the instantaneous
forces are simultaneous. But the end of one operation is the
beginning of the next, or at least in part, and hence we have
time occupied by the succession. The end of intussusception is
the beginning of digestion, the end of digestion the beginning of
assimilation, and so on. These aggregate effects suceeed each
other; and hence growth is subsequent to the taking of food ;
though each instantaneous force of animal life, no less than of
mechanism, produces an effect simultaneous with its action.
Each of these separate operations is an aggregate operation, and
occupies time; and each aggregate effect is a condition of the
action of the cause in the next operation.
Again; if an animal in a permanent condition, neither wax­
ing nor wasting, may be taken as the normal state in which the
T T 2
6 4 4 ESSAY IV.
functions of life measure time, in order that we may consider
growth as an effect, to be referred to food as cause ; we may,
for other purposes, consider, as the normal condition, an animal
waxing and then wasting, according to the usual law of animal
life : and we must take this, the healthy progress of an animal,
as our normal condition, if we have to consider causes which
produce disease. If we have to refer the morbid condition of
an animal to the influence of poison, for example, we must con­
sider how far the condition deviates from what it would have
been if the poison had not been taken into the frame. Thé
usual progress of the animal functions including its growth, is
the measure of time ; the deviation from this usual progress is
the indication of cause ; and the effect of the poison is subse­
quent to the cause, because the poison acts through the cycle of
the animal functions just mentioned, which occupies time ; and
because the taking the poison into the system, not any subse­
quent action of the animal forces in the system, is considered as
the event which wo must contemplate as a cause. To resume
the analogy of the clock : the rate of the clock is altered by
altering the parts ; but this alteration itself may occupy time ;
as if we alter the rate of a clock by applying a drop of acid,
which gradually eats off a part of the pendulum, the corrosion,
as an aggregate effect, occupies time ; and the rates before and
after the change are separated by this time. But the applica­
tion of the drop is the cause; and thus, in this case the final
effect is subsequent to the cause, though here, as in the case of
mechanism, the instantaneous forces always produce a simulta­
neous effect.
Thus we have in every case a uniform state, or a state which
is considered as uniform, or at least normal; and which is taken
as the indication and measure of time ; and we have also change,
which is contemplated as a deviation from uniformity, and is
taken as the indication and measure of cause. The uniform state
may be one which never exists, being purely imaginary ; as the
case in which no forces act ; and the case in which animal
functions go on permanently, the animal neither growing nor
wasting. The normal state may also be a state in which change
is constantly taking place, as, in fact, even a state of motion is
a state of change ; such states also are, in a further sense, that
of a clock going by starts, and that of an animal constantly
growing : in these cases the changes are all merged in a wider
ON CAUSE AND EFFECT. 6 4 5
view of uniformity, so that these are taken as the normal states.
And in all these cases, successive changes which take place are
separated by intervals of time, measured by the normal pro­
gress ; and each change is produced by some simultaneous in­
stantaneous cause. But taking the cause in a larger sense, we
group these instantaneous causes, and perhaps omit in our con­
templation some of the intervening intervals; and thus assign
the cause to a preceding, and the effect to a succeeding time.
I may observe further, as a corollary from what has been
said, that the measure of time is different, when we consider
different kinds of causation; and in each case, is homogeneous
with the changes which causation effects. In the consideration
of mechanical causes, we measure time by mechanical changes;—
by uniform motion, or uniform succession of cycles of motion;
by the rotation of a wheel, or the oscillation of a pendulum.
But if we have to consider physiological changes, the progress
of time is physiologically measured;— by the normal progress
of vital operations ; by the circulation, digestion or development
of the organized body ; by the pulse, or by the growth. These
different measures of time give to time, so far as it is exhibited
by facts and events, a different character in the different cases.
Phenomenal time has a different nature and essence according
to the kind of the changes which we consider, and which gives
us our sole phenomenal indication of cause.
I fear that I am travelling into matters too abstruse and
metaphysical for the occasion: but before I conclude, I will
present one other aspect of the subject.
In stating the difficulty, I referred to cases of moral as well
as physical causation; as when prudence produces prosperity,
or when folly produces ruin. It may be asked, whether we
are here to apply the same explanation;— whether we are to
assume a normal condition of human existence, in which neither
prudence nor folly are displayed, neither prosperity nor adversity
produced;— whether we are to conceive the progress of such a
state to measure the progress of time, and deviations from it to
denote causes of the kind mentioned. It may be asked further,
whether, if we do make this supposition, we can resolve the in­
fluence of such causes as prudence or imprudence into instanta­
neous acts, which produce their effects immediately: and which
occupy time only by being separated by intervals of the*inactive
normal moral condition. To this I must here reply, that the
646 ESSAY IV .
discussion of such questions would carry me too far, and would
involve speculations not included within the acknowledged domain
of this Society, from which I therefore abstain. But I may say,
before quitting the subject, that I do not think the suppositions
above suggested are untenable; and that in order to include
moral causation under the maxims of causation in general, we
must necessarily make some such hypothesis. The peculiarity
of that kind of causation which the will and the character exert,
and which is exerted upon the will and the character, would
make this case far more complex and difficult than those already
considered; but, at the same time, would offer us the means of
explaining what may seem harsh, in the above analogy. For
instance, we should have to assume such a maxim as this: that
in moral causation, time is not to be measured by the flow of
mechanical or physiological events;— not by the clock, or by
the pulse. Moral causation has its own clock, its own pulse, in
the progress of man's moral being; and by this measure of time
is the relation of moral cause and effect to be defined. •
That in estimating moral causation, the progress of time is
necessarily estimated by moral changes, and not by machinery,—
by the progress of events, and not by the going of the clock,—
is a truth familiar as a practical maxim to all who give their
thoughts to dramatic or narrative fictions. Who feels any thing
incongruous or extravagantly hurried in the progress of events
in that great exhibition of moral causation, the tragedy of
Othello ? If we were asked what time those vast and terrible
and complex changes of the being and feelings of the characters
occupy, we should say, that, measured on its own scale, the event
is of great extent;— that the transaction is of considerable
magnitude in all ways. But if, with previous critics, we look
into the progress of time by the day and the hour— what is the
measure of this history? Forty-eight hours.
But I am going beyond the boundaries of the speculations
which we usually follow in this room, and will conclude.
ESSAY V.
O N THE FUNDAMENTAL ANTITHESIS OF PHILOSOPHY*.
I have upon former occasions laid before the Society disser­
tations on certain questions which may be termed metaphysical :
— on the nature of the truth of the laws of motion :— on the
question whether all matter is heavy :— and on the question
whether cause and effect are successive or simultaneous. As
these dissertations have not failed to excite some interest, I hope
that I shall have the indulgence of the Society in making a few
remarks on another question of the same kind. In doing this,
as my object is to throw some light if possible on a matter
of considerable obscurity and difficulty, I shall not attempt to
avoid the occasional repetition of a sentence or two which I may
have, in substance, delivered elsewhere.
1. All persons who have attended in any degree to the
views generally current of the nature of reasoning are familiar
with the distinction of necessary truths and truths of experience;
and few such persons, or at least few students of mathematics,
require to have this distinction explained or enforced. All
geometricians are satisfied that the geometrical truths with
which they are conversant are necessarily true : they not only
are true, but they must le true. The meaning of the terms
being understood, and the proof being gone through, the truth
of the proposition must be assented to. That parallelograms
upon the same base and between the same parallels are equal;—
that angles in the same segment are equal ;— these are propo­
sitions which we learn to be true by demonstrations deduced
from definitions and axioms ; and which, when we have thus
learnt them, we see could not be otherwise. On the other
hand, there are other truths which we learn from experience ;
as for instance, that the stars revolve round the pole in one
day ; and that the moon goes through her phases from full to
full again in thirty days. These truths we see to be true; but
we know them only by experience. Men never could have dis­
* From the Transactions of the Cambridge Philosophical Society,
Vol. vni. Part n. No. 14. [1844].
6 4 8 ESSAY V.
covered them without looking at the stars and the moon; and
having so learnt them, still no one will pretend to say that they
are necessarily true. For aught we can see, things might have
been otherwise; and if we had been placed in another part of
the solar system, then, according to the opinions of astronomers,
experience would have presented them otherwise.
2. I take the astronomical truths of experience to oontrast
with the geometrical necessary truths, as being both of a fami­
liar definite sort; we may easily find other examples of both
kinds of truth. The truths which regard numbers are necessary
truths. It is a necessary truth, that 27 and 38 are equal to
65; that half the sum of two numbers added to half their dif­
ference is equal to the greater number. On the other hand,
that sugar will dissolve in water; that plants cannot live with­
out light; and in short, the whole body of our knowledge in
chemistry, physiology, and the other inductive sciences, consists
of truths of experience. If there be any science which offer to
us truths of an ambiguous kind, with regard to which we may
for a moment doubt whether they are necessary or experiential,
we will defer the consideration of them till we have marked the
distinction of the two kinds more clearly.
3. One mode in which we may express the difference of
necessary truths and truths of experience, is, that neceasary
truths are those of which we cannot distinctly conceive the
contrary. Wo can very readily conceive the contrary of ex­
periential truths. We can conceive the stars moving about
the pole or across the sky in any kind of curves with any
velocities; we can conceive the moon always appearing during
the whole month as a luminous disk, as she might do if her
light were inherent and not borrowed. But we cannot con­
ceive one of the parallelograms on the Bame base and between
the same parallels larger than the other; for we find that, if
we attempt to do this, when we separate the parallelograms
into parts, we have to conceive one triangle larger than another,
both having all their parts equal; which we cannot conceive at
all, if we conceive the triangles distinctly. We make this im­
possibility more clear by conceiving the triangles to be placed
so that two sides of the one coincide with two sides of the
other; and it is then seen, that in order to conceive the tri­
angles unequal, we must conceive the two bases which have the
same extremities both ways, to.be different lines, though both
THE FUNDAMENTAL ANTITHESIS OF PHILOSOPHY. 6 4 9
Straight lines. This it is impossible to conceive: we assent to
the impossibility as an axiom, when it is expressed by saying,
that two straight lines cannot inclose a space; and thus we
cannot distinctly conceive the contrary of the proposition just
mentioned respecting parallelograms.
4. But it is necessary, in applying this distinction, to bear
in mind the terms of i t ;— that we cannot distinctly conceive
the contrary of a necessary truth. For in a certain loose,
indistinct way, persons conceive the contrary of necessary geo­
metrical truths, when they erroneously conceive false proposi­
tions to be true. Thus, Hobbes erroneously held that he had
discovered a means of geometrically doubling the cube, as it is
called, that is, finding two mean proportionals between two
given lines; a problem which cannot be solved by plane geo­
metry. Hobbes not only proposed a construction for this pur­
pose, but obstinately maintained that it was right, when it had
been proved to be wrong. But then, the discussion showed
how indistinct the geometrical conceptions of Hobbes were;
for when his critics had proved that one of the lines in his
diagram would not meet the other in the point which his
reasoning supposed, but in another point near to it ; he main­
tained, in reply, that one of these points was large enough to
include the other, so that they might be considered as the
same point. Such a mode of conceiving the opposite of a geo­
metrical truth, forms no exception to the assertion, that this
opposite cannot be distinctly conceived.
5. In like manner, the indistinct conceptions of children
and of rude savages do not invalidate the distinction of neces­
sary and experiential truths. Children and savages make mis­
takes even with regard to numbers; and might easily happen
to assert that 27 and 38 are equal to 6s or 64. But such
mistakes cannot make such arithmetical truths cease to be
necessary truths. When any person conceives these numbers
and their addition distinctly, by resolving them into parts, or in
any other way, he sees that their sum is necessarily 65. If, on
the ground of the possibility of children and savages conceiving
something different, it be held that this is not a necessary truth,
it must be held on the same ground, that it is not a necessary
truth that 7 and 4 are equal to 11 ; for children and savages
might be found so unfamiliar with numbers as not to reject the
assertion that 7 and 4 are 10, or even that 4 and S are 6, or 8,
6 5 0 ESSAY V.
But I suppose that no persons would on such grounds hold that
these arithmetical truths are truths known only by experience.
6. Necessary truths are established, as has already been
said, by demonstration, proceeding from definitions and axioms,
according to exact and rigorous inferences of reason. Truths
of experience are collected from what we see, also according to
inferences of reason, but proceeding in a less exact and rigorous
mode of proof. The former depend upon the relations of the
ideas which we have in our minds: the latter depend upon the
appearances or phenomena, which present themselves to our
senses. Necessary truths are formed from our thoughts, the
elements of the world within u s; experiential truths axe col­
lected from things, the elements of the world without us. The
truths of experience, as they appear to us in the external world,
we call Facts; and when we are able to find among our ideas a
train which will conform themselves to the apparent facts, we
call this a Theory.
7. This distinction and opposition, thus expressed in various
forms; as Necessary and Experiential Truth, Ideas and Senses,
Thoughts and Things, Theory and Fact, may be termed the
Fundamental Antithesis of Philosophy ; for almost all the discus­
sions of philosophers have been employed in asserting or denying,
explaining or obscuring this antithesis. It may be expressed in
many other ways; but is not difficult, under all these different
forms, to recognize the same opposition : and the same remarks
apply to it under its various forms, with corresponding modifi­
cations. Thus, as we have already seen, the antithesis agrees
with that of Reasoning and Observation: again, it is identical
with the opposition of Reflection and Sensation : again, sensa­
tion deals with Objects; facts involve Objects, and generally all
things without us are Objects:— Objects of sensation, of ob­
servation. On the other hand, we ourselves who thus observe
objects, and in whom sensation is, may be called the Subjects
of sensation and observation. And this distinction of Subject
and Object is one of the most general ways of expressing the
fundamental antithesis, although not yet perhaps quite familiar
in English. I shall not scruple however to speak of the Sub­
jective and Objective element of this antithesis, where the ex­
pressions are convenient.
8. All these forms of antithesis, and the familiar references
to them which men make in all discussions, shew the fundamental
THE FUNDAMENTAL ANTITHESIS OF PHILOSOPHY. 651
and necessary character of the antithesis. We can have no
knowledge without the union, no philosophy without the sepa­
ration, of the two elements. We can have no knowledge,
except we have both impressions on our senses from the world
without, and thoughts from our minds within:— except we
attend to things, and to our ideas ;— except we are passive to
receive impressions, and active to compare, combine, and mould
them. But on the other hand, philosophy seeks to distinguish
the impressions of our senses from the thoughts of our minds;—
to point out the difference of ideas and things;— to separate
the active from the passive faculties of our being. The two
elements, sensations and ideas, are both requisite to the ex­
istence of our knowledge, as both matter and form are requisite
to the existence of a body. But philosophy considers the
matter and the form separately. The properties of the form
are the subject of geometry, the properties of the matter are
the subject of chemistry or mechanics.
9. But though philosophy considers these elements of know­
ledge separately, they cannot really be separated, any more
than can matter and form. We cannot exhibit matter without
form, or form without matter; and just as little can we exhibit
sensations without ideas, or ideas without sensations ;— the pas­
sive or the active faculties of the mind detached from each
other.
In every aot of my knowledge, there must be concerned
the things whereof I know, and thoughts of me who know:
I must both passively receive or have received impressions, and
I must actively combine them and reason on them. No appre­
hension of things is purely ideal: no experience of external
things is purely sensational. If they be conceived as things,
the mind must have been awoke to the conviction of things by
sensation: if they be conceived as things, the expressions of the
senses must have been bound together by conceptions. If we
think of any thing, we must recognize the existence both of
thoughts and of things. The fundamental antithesis of philo*
sophy is an antithesis of inseparable elements.
10. Not only cannot these elements be separately exhibited,
but they cannot be separately conceived and described. The
description of them must always imply their relation; and the
names by which they are denoted will consequently always bear
a relative significance. And thus the term which denote the
6 5 2 ESSAY Y.
fundamental antithesis of philosophy cannot he applied absolutely
and exclusively in any case. We may illustrate this by a con­
sideration of some of the common modes of expressing the
antithesis of which we speak. The terms Theory and Fact are
often emphatically used as opposed to each other: and they are
rightly so used. But yet it is impossible to say absolutely in
any case, This is a Fact and not a Theory; this is a Theory
and not a Fact, meaning by Theory, true Theory. Is it a fact
or a theory that the stars appear to revolve round the pole ? Is
it a fact or a theory that the earth is a globe revolving round
its axis? Is it a fact or a theory that the earth revolves round
the sun? Is it a fact or a theory that the sun attracts the
earth ? Is it a fact or a theory that a loadstone attracts a
needle ? In all these cases, some persons would answer one way
and some persons another. A person who has never watched
the stars, and has only seen them from time to time, considers
their circular motion round the pole as a theory, just as he
considers the motion of the sun in the ecliptic as a theory, or
the apparent motion of the inferior planets round the sun in the
zodiac. A person who has compared the measures of different
parts of the earth, and who knows that these measures cannot
be conceived distinctly without supposing the earth a globe,
considers its globular form a fact, just as much as the square
form of his chamber. A person to whom the grounds of believ­
ing the earth to revolve round its axis and round the sun, are
as familiar as the grounds for believing the movements of the
mail-coaches in this country, conceives the former events to be
facts, just as steadily as the latter. And a person who, believ­
ing the fact of the earth's annual motion, refers it distinctly to
its mechanical course, conceives the sun's attraction as a fact,
just as he conceives as a fact the action of the wind which turns
the sails of a mill. We see then, that in these cases we cannot
apply absolutely and exclusively either of the terms, Fact or
Theory. Theory and Fact are the elements which correspond
to our Ideas and our Senses. The Facts are Facts so far as
the Ideas have been combined with the sensations and absorbed
in them: the Theories are Theories so far as the Ideas are kept
distinct from the sensations, and so far as it is considered as
still a question whether they can be made to agree with them.
A true Theory is a fact, a Fact is a familiar theory.
In like manner, if we take the terms Reasoning and Ob-
THE FUNDAMENTAL ANTITHESIS OF PHILOSOPHY. 6 5 3
serration; at first sight they appear to be very distinct. Our
observation of the world without us, our reasonings in our own
minds, appear to be clearly separated and opposed. But yet
we shall find that we cannot apply these terms absolutely and
exclusively. I see a book lying a few feet from m e: is this a
matter of observation! At first, perhaps, we might be inclined
to say that it clearly is so. But yet, all of us, who have paid
any attention to the process of vision, and to the mode in which
we are enabled to judge of the distance of objects, and to judge
them to be distant objects at all, know that this judgment
involves inferences drawn from various sensations;— from the
impressions on our two eyes ;— from our muscular sensations ;
and the like. These inferences are of the nature of reasoning,
as much as when we judge of the distance of an object on tho
other side of a river by looking at it from different points, and
stepping the distance between them. Or again: we observe the
setting sun illuminate a gilded weathercock; but this is as much
a matter of reasoning as when we observe the phases of the
moon, and infer that she is illuminated by the sun. All ob­
servation involves inferences, and inference is reasoning.
11. Even the simplest terms by which the antithesis is
expressed cannot be separated: ideas and sensations, thoughts
and things, subject and object, cannot in any case be applied
absolutely and exclusively. Our sensations require ideas to
bind them together, namely, ideas of space, time, number, and
the like. If not so bound together, sensations do not give us
any apprehension of things or objects. All things, all objects,
must exist in space and in time— must be one or many. Now
space, time, number, are not sensations or things. They are
something different from, and opposed to sensations and things.
W e have termed them ideas. It may be said they are rela­
tions of things, or of sensations. But granting this form of
expression, still a relation is not a thing or a sensation; and
therefore we must still have another and opposite element, along
with our sensations. And yet, though we have thus these two
elements in every act of perception, we cannot designate any
portion of the act as absolutely and exclusively belonging to one
of the elements. Perception involves sensation, along with ideas
of time, space, and the like; or, if any one prefers the expres­
sion, we may say, Perception involves sensations along with the
apprehension of relations. Perception is sensation, along with
6 5 4 ESSAY V.
such ideas as make sensation into an apprehension of things or
objects.
12. And as perception of objects implies ideas,— as observa­
tion implies reasoning;— so, on the other hand, ideas cannot
exist where sensation has not been: reasoning cannot go on
when there has not been previous observation. This is evident
from the necessary order of development of the human faculties.
Sensation necessarily exists from the first moments of our ex­
istence, and is constantly at work. Observation begins before
we can suppose the existence of any reasoning which is not
involved in observation. Hence, at whatever period we consider
our ideas, we must consider them as having been already en­
gaged in connecting our sensations, and as having been modified
by this employment. By being so employed, our ideas are
unfolded and defined; and such development and definition
cannot be separated from the ideas themselves. W e cannot
conceive space without boundaries or forms; now forms involve
sensations. We cannot conceive time without events which
mark the course of time; but events involve sensations. We
cannot conceive number without conceiving things which are
numbered; and things imply sensations. And the forms,
things, events, which are thus implied in our ideas, having been
the objects of sensation constantly in every part of our life, have
modified, unfolded and fixed our ideas, t-o an extent which we
cannot estimate, but which we must suppose to be essential to
the processes which at present go on in our minds. W e cannot
say that objects create ideas; for to perceive objects we must
already have ideas. But we may say, that objects and the con­
stant perception of objects have so far modified our ideas, that
we cannot, even in thought, separate our ideas from the percep­
tion of objects.
We cannot say of any ideas, as of the idea of space, or time,
or number, that they are absolutely and exclusively ideas. We
cannot conceive what space, or time, or number would be in
our minds, if we had never perceived any thing or things in
space or time. We cannot conceive ourselves in such a con­
dition as never to have perceived any thing or things in space
or time. But, on the other hand, just as little can we conceive
ourselves becoming acquainted with space and time or numbers
as objects of sensation. We cannot reason without having the
operations of our minds affected by previous sensations but we
THE FUNDAMENTAL ANTITHESIS OF PHILOSOPHY. G55
cannot conceive reasoning to be merely a series of sensations.
In order to be used in reasoning, sensation must become obser­
vation ; and, as we have seen, observation already involves
Reasoning. In order to be connected by our ideas, sensations
must be Things or objects, and things or objects already include
ideas. And thus none of the terms by which the fundamental
antithesis is expressed can be absolutely and exclusively applied.
13. I will make a remark suggested by the views which have
thus been presented. Since, as we have just seen, none of the
terms which express the fundamental antithesis can be applied
absolutely and exclusively, the absolute application of the anti­
thesis in any particular case can never be a conclusive or im­
moveable principle. This remark is the more necessary to bo
borne in mind, as the terms of this antithesis are often used in
a vehement and peremptory manner. Thus we are often told
that such a thing is a Fact and not a Theory, with all the
emphasis which, in speaking or writing, tone or italics or capi­
tals can give. We see from what has been said, that when this
is urged, before we can estimate the truth, or the value of the
assertion, we must ask to whom is it a fact! what habits of
thought, what previous information, what Ideas does it imply,
to conceive the fact as a fact ? Does not the apprehension of
the fact imply assumptions which may with equal justice be
called theory, and which are perhaps false theory! in which
case, the fact is no fact. Did not the ancients assert it as a
Fact, that the earth stood still, and the stars moved ? and can
any Fact have stronger apparent evidence to justify persons in
asserting it emphatically than this had! These remarks are by
no means urged in order to shew that no Fact can be certainly
known to be true; but only to shew that no Fact can be cer­
tainly shown to be a Fact merely by calling it a Fact, however
emphatically. There is by no means any ground of general
skepticism with regard to truth involved in the doctrine of the
necessary combination of two elements in all our knowledge.
On the contrary, Ideas are requisite to the essence, and Things
to the reality of our knowledge in every case. The proportions
of Geometry and Arithmetic are examples of knowledge respect­
ing our Ideas of space and number, with regard to which there
is no room for doubt. The doctrines of Astronomy are examples
of truths not less certain respecting the Facts of the external
world.
6 5 6 ESSAY V.
14. I remark further, that since in every act of knowledge,
observation or perception, both the elements of the fundamental
antithesis are involved, and involved in a manner inseparable
even in our conceptions, it must always be possible to derive
one of these elements from the other, if we are satisfied to accept,
as proof of such derivation, that one always co-exists with and
implies the other. Thus an opponent may say, that our ideas
of space, time, and number, are derived from our sensations or
perceptions, because we never were in a condition in which we
had the ideas of space and time, and had not sensations or per­
ceptions. But then, we may reply to this, that we no sooner
perceive objects than wo perceive them as existing in space and
time, and therefore the ideas of space and time are not derived
from the perceptions. In the same manner, an opponent may
say, that all knowledge which is involved in our reasonings ia
the result of experience; for instance, our knowledge of geometry.
For every geometrical principle is presented to us by experience
as true; beginning with the simplest, from which all others are
derived by processes of exact reasoning. But to this we reply,
that experience cannot be the origin of such knowledge; for
though experience shows that such principles are true, it cannot
show that they must le true, which we also know. W e never
have seen, as a matter of observation, two straight lines inclosing
a space; but we venture to say further, without the smallest
hesitation, that we never shall see i t ; and if any one were to
tell us that, according to his experience, such a form was often
seen, we should only suppose that he did not know what he was
talking of. No number of acts of experience can add to the
certainty of our knowledge in this respect; which shows that
our knowledge is not made up of acts of experience. W e can­
not test such knowledge by experience; for if we were to try
to do so, we must first know that the lines with which we make
the trial are straight; and we have no test of straightness better
than this, that two such lines cannot inclose a space. Since
then, experience can neither destroy, add to, nor test our axiom­
atic knowledge, such knowledge cannot be derived from experi­
ence. Since no one act of experience can affect our knowledge,
no numbers of acts of experience can make it.
15. To this a reply has been offered, that it is a charac­
teristic property of geometric forms that the ideas of them
exactly resemble the sensations; so that these ideas are as fit
THE FUNDAMENTAL ANTITHESIS OF PHILOSOPHY. 657
subjects of expérimentation as the realities themselves ; and
that by such experimentation we learn the truth of the axioms
of geometry. I might very reasonably ask those who use this
language to explain how a particular class of ideas can bo said
to resemble sensations ; how, if they do, we can know it to be
so ; how we can prove this resemblance to belong to geometrical
ideas and sensations ; and how it comes to be an especial cha­
racteristic of those. But I will put the argument in another
way. Experiment can only show what is, not what must be.
If experimentation on ideas shows what must be, it is different
from what is commonly called experience.
I may add, that not only the mere use of our senses cannot
show that the axioms of geometry must be true, but that, with­
out the light of our ideas, it cannot even show that they are
true. If we had a segment of a circle a mile long and an inch
wide, we should have two lines inclosing a space ; but we could
not, by seeing or touching any part of either of them, discover
that it was a bent line.
] 6. That mathematical truths are not derived from experi­
ence is perhaps still more evident, if greater evidence be possible,
in the case of numbers. We assert that 7 and 8 are 15. We
find it so, if we try with counters, or in any other way. But
we do not, on that account, say that the knowledge is derived
from experience. We refer to our conceptions of seven, of
eight, and of addition, and as soon as we possess these concep­
tions distinctly, we see that the sum must be fifteen. We can­
not be said to make a trial, for we should not believe the apparent
result of the trial if it were different. If any one were to say
that the multiplication table is a table of the results of experi­
ence, we should know that he could not bo able to go along
with us in our researches into the foundations of human know­
ledge ; nor, indeed, to pursue with success any speculations on
the subject.
17. Attempts have also been made to explain the origin of
axiomatic truths by referring them to the “ association of ideas.'”
But this is one of the cases in which the word association has
been applied so widely and loosely, that no sense can be attached
to it. Those who have written with any degree of distinctness
on the subject, have truly taught, that the habitual association
of the Ideas leads us to believe a connexion of the Things : but
they have never told us that this association gave us the power
V O L . I I . W . P . U U
658 ESSAY V.
of forming the ideas. Association may determine belief, but it
cannot determine the possibility of our conceptions. The African
king did not believe that water could become solid, because he
had never seen it in that state. But that accident did not
make it impossible to conceive it so, any more than it is im­
possible for us to conceive frozen quicksilver, or melted diamond,
or liquefied air; which we may never have seen, but have no
difficulty in conceiving. If there were a tropical philosopher
really incapable of conceiving water solidified, he must have been
brought into that mental condition by abstruse speculations on
the necessary relations of solidity and fluidity, not by the asso­
ciation of ideas.
18. To return to the results of the nature of the Funda­
mental Antithesis. As by assuming universal and indissoluble
connexion of ideas with perceptions, of knowledge with experi­
ence, as an evidence of derivation, we may assert the former to
be derived from the latter, so might we, on the same ground,
assert the latter to be derived from the former. W e see all
forms in space ; and we might hence assert all forms to be mere
modifications of our idea of space. We see all events happen in
tim e; and we might hence assert all events to be merely limita­
tions and boundary-marks of our idea of time. We conceive all
collections of things as two or three, or some other number: it
might hence be asserted that we have an original idea of num­
ber, which is reflected in external things. In this case, as in
the other, we are met at once by the impossibility of this being
a complete account of our knowledge. Our ideas of space, of
time, of number, however distinctly reflected to us with limita­
tions and modifications, must be reflected, limited and modified
by something different from themselves. We must have visible
or tangible forms to limit space, perceived events to mark time,
distinguishable objects to exemplify number. But still, in forms,
and events, and objects, we have a knowledge which they them­
selves cannot give us. For we know, without attending to them,
that whatever they are, they will conform and must conform to
the truths of geometry and arithmetic. There is an ideal portion
in all our knowledge of the external world; and if we were
resolved to reduce all our knowledge to one of its two antithetical
elements, we might say that all our knowledge consists in the
relation of our ideas. Wherever there is necessary truth, there
must be something more than sensation can supply: and the
THE FUNDAMENTAL ANTITHESIS OF PHILOSOPHY. 6 5 9
necessary truths of geometry and arithmetic show us that our
knowledge of objects in space and time depends upon necessary
relations of ideas, whatever other element it may involve.
19. This remark may be carried much further than the
domain of geometry and arithmetic. Our knowledge of matter
may at first sight appear to be altogether derived from the
senses. Yet we cannot derive from the senses our knowledge of
a truth which we accept as universally certain;— namely, that
we cannot by any process add to or diminish the quantity of
matter in the world. This truth neither is nor can be derived
from experience; for the experiments which we make to verify
it pre-suppose its truth. When the philosopher was asked what
was the weight of smoke, he bade the inquirer subtract the
weight of the ashes from the weight of the fuel. Every one
who thinks clearly of the changes which take place in matter,
assents to the justice of this reply : and this, not because any
one had found by trial that such was the weight of the smoke
produced in combustion, but because the weight lost was assumed
to have gone into some other form of matter, not to have been
destroyed. When men began to use the balance in chemical
analysis, they did not prove by trial, but took for granted, as
self-evident, that the weight of the whole must be found in the
aggregate weight of the elements. Thus it is involved in the
idea of matter that its amount continues unchanged in all
changes which takes places in its consistence. This is a necessary
truth: and thus our knowledge of matter, as collected from
chemical experiments, is also a modification of our idea of matter
as the material of the world incapable of addition or diminution.
20. A similar remark may be made with regard to the
mechanical properties of matter. Our knowledge of these is
reduced, in our reasonings, to principles which we call the laws
of motion. These laws of motion, as I have endeavoured to shew
in a paper already printed by the Society, depend upon the idea
of Cause, and involve necessary truths, which are necessarily
implied in the idea of cause;— namely, that every change of
motion must have a cause— that the effect is measured by the
cause;— that re-action is equal and opposite to action. These
principles are not derived from experience. No one, I suppose,
would derive from experience the principle, that every event
must have a cause. Every attempt to see the traces of cause
in the world assumes this principle. I do not say that these
U U 2
6 6 0 ESSAY Y.
pianciples are anterior to experience; for I have already, I
hope, shewn, that neither of the two elements of our knowledge
is, or can be, anterior to the other. But the two elements are
co-ordinate in the development of the human mind; and the
ideal element may be said to be the origin of our knowledge
with the more propriety of the two, inasmuch as our knowledge
is the relation of ideas. The other element of knowledge, in
which sensation is concerned, and which embodies, limits, and
defines the necessary truths which express the relations of our
ideas, may be properly termed Experience; and I have, in the
Memoir just quoted, endeavoured to Bhew how the Principles
concerning mechanical causation, which I have just stated, are,
by observation and experiment, limited and defined, so that
they become the Laws of Motion. And thus we see that such
knowledge is derived from ideas, in a sense quite as general and
rigorous, to say the least, as that in which it is derived from
experience.
21. I will take another example of this; although it is one
less familiar, and the consideration of it perhaps a little more
difficult and obscure. The objects which we find in the world,
for instance, minerals and plants, are of different kinds ; and
according to their kinds, they are called by various names, by
means of which we know what we mean when we speak of them.
The discrimination of these kinds of objects, according to their
different forms and other properties, is the business of chemistry
and botany. And this business of discrimination, and of conse­
quent classification, has been carried on from the first periods
of the development of the human mind, by an industrious and
comprehensive series of observations and experiments; the only
way in which any portion of the task could have been effected.
But as the foundation of all this labour, and as a necessary
assumption during every part of its progress, there has been in
men's minds the principle, that objects are so distinguishable by
resemblances and differences, that they may be named, and
known by their names. This principle is involved in the idea
of a Name; and without it no progress could have been made.
The principle may be briefly stated thus:— Intelligible Names
of Kinds are possible. If we suppose this not to be so, language
can no longer exist, nor could the business of human life go on.
If instead of having certain definitekinds of minerals, gold, iron,
copper, and the like, of which the external forms and characters
THE FUNDAMENTAL ANTITHESIS OF PHILOSOPHY. GG1
are constantly connected with the same properties and qualities,
there were no connexion between the appearance and the pro­
perties of the object;— if what seemed externally iron might
turn out to resemble lead in its hardness; and what seemed to
be gold during many trials, might at the next trial bo found to
be like copper; not only all the uses of these minerals would
fail, but they would not be distinguishable kinds of things, and
the names would be unmeaning. And if this entire uncertainty
as to kind and properties prevailed for all objects, the world
would no longer be a world to which language was applicable.
To man, thus unable to distinguish objects into kinds, and call
them by names, all knowledge would be impossible, and all definite
apprehension of external objects would fade away into an incon­
ceivable confusion. In the very apprehension of objects as in­
telligibly sorted, there is involved a principle which springs
within us, contemporaneous, in its efficacy, with our first intelli­
gent perception of the kinds of things of which the world con­
sists. We assume, as a necessary basis of our knowledge, that
things are of definite kinds ; and the aim of chemistry, botany,
and other sciences is, to find marks of these kinds; and along
with these, to learn their definitely-distinguished properties.
Even here, therefore, where so large a portion of our knowledge
comes from experience and observation, wo cannot proceed with­
out a necessary truth derived from our ideas, as our fundamental
principle of knowledge.
22. What the Marks aro, which distinguish the constant
differences of Kinds of things (definite marks, selected from
among many unessential appearances), and what their definite
properties are, when they are so distinguished, are parts of our
knowledge to be learnt from observation, by various processes;
for instance, among others, by chemical analysis. We find the
differences of bodies, as shown by such analysis, to bo of this
nature:— that there are various elementary bodies, which, com­
bining in different definite proportions, form kinds of bodies
definitely different. But, in arriving at this conclusion, we in­
troduce a new idea, that of Elementary Composition, which is
not extracted from the phenomena, but supplied by the mind,
and introduced in order to make the phenomena intelligible.
That this notion of elementary composition is not supplied by
the chemical phenomena of combustion, mixture, &o. as merely
an observed fact, wo see from this; that men had in ancient
662 ESSAY V.
times performed many experiments in which elementary com­
position was concerned, and had not seen the fact. It never
was truly seen till modern times ; and when seen, it gave a new
aspect to the whole body of known facts. This Idea of Elemen­
tary Composition, then, is supplied by the mind, in order to
make the facts of chemical analysis and synthesis intelligible as
analysis and synthesis. And this idea being so supplied, there
enters into our knowledge along with it a corresponding neces­
sary principle;— That the elementary composition of a body
determines its kind and properties. This is, I say, a principle
assumed, as a consequence of the idea of composition, not a
result of experience; for when bodies have been divided into
their kinds, we take for granted that the analysis of a single
specimen may serve to determine the analysis of all bodies of the
same kind: and without this assumption, chemical knowledge
with regard to the kinds of bodies would not be possible. It
has been said that we take only one experiment to determine
the composition of any particular kind of body, because we have
a thousand experiments to determine that bodies of the same
kind have the same composition. But this is not so. Our
belief in the principle that bodies of the same kind have the
same composition is not established by experiments, but is
assumed as a necessary consequence of the ideas of Kind and
of Composition. If, in our experiments, we found that bodies
supposed to be of the same kind had not the same composition,
we should not at all doubt of the principle just stated, but con­
clude at once that the bodies were not of the same kind;— that
the marks by which the kinds are distinguished had been wrongly
stated. This is what has very frequently happened in the course
of the investigations of chemists and mineralogists. And thus
we have it, not as an experiential fact, but as a necessary prin­
ciple of chemical philosophy, that the Elementary Composition
of a body determines its Kind and Properties.
23. How bodies differ in their elementary composition, ex­
periment must teach us, as we have already said that experiment
has taught us. But as we have also said, whatever be the
nature of this difference, Kinds must be definite, in order that
Language may be possible : and hence, whatever be the terms in
which we are taught by experiment to express the elementary
composition of bodies, the result must be conformable to this
principle, That the Differences of elementary composition are
THE FUNDAMENTAL ANTITHESIS OF PHILOSOPHY. 6 6 3
definite. The law to which we are led by experiment is, that
the elements of bodies continue in definite proportions according
to weight. Experiments add other laws; as for instance, that
of multiple proportions in different kinds of bodies composed of
the same elements; but of these we do not here speak.
24. We are thus led to see that in our knowledge of
mechanics, chemistry, and the like, there are involved certain
necessary principles, derived from our ideas, and not from ex­
perience. But to this it may be objected, that the parts of our
knowledge in which these principles are involved has, in historical
fact, all been acquired by experience. The Laws of Motion, the
Doctrine of Definite Proportions, and the like, have all become
known by experiment and observation; and so far from being
seen as necessary truths, have been discovered by long-continued
labours and trials, and through innumerable vicissitudes of con­
fusion, error, and imperfect truth. This is perfectly true : but
does not at all disprove what has been said. Perception of ex­
ternal objects and experience, experiment and observation, are
needed, not only, as we have said, to supply the objective element
of all knowledge— to embody, limit, define, and modify our
ideas; but this intercourse with objects is also requisite to un­
fold and fix our ideas themselves. As we have already said,
ideas and facts can never be separated. Our ideas cannot be
exercised and developed in any other form than in their combi­
nation with facts; and therefore the trials, corrections, contro­
versies, by which the Matter of our knowledge is collected, is
also the only way in which the Form of it can be rightly fashioned.
Experience is requisite to the clearness and distinctness of our
ideas, not because they are derived from experience, but because
they can only be exercised upon experience. And this considera­
tion sufficiently explains how it is that experiment and observa­
tion have been the means, and the only means, by which men
have been led to a knowledge of the laws of nature. In reality,
however, the necessary principles which flow from our ideas, and
which are the basis of such knowledge, have not only been
inevitably assumed in the course of such investigations, but have
been often expressly promulgated in words by clear-minded
philosophers, long before their true interpretation was assigned
by experiment. This has happened with regard to such prin­
ciples as those above mentioned; That every event must have
a cause; That reaction is equal and opposite to action; That
6 6 4 ESSAY V.
the quantity of matter in the world cannot be increased or
diminished: and there would be no difficulty in finding similar
enunciations of the other principles above mentioned ;— That
the kinds of things have definite differences, and that these dif­
ferences depend upon their elementary composition/ In general*
however, it may be allowed, that the necessary principles which
are involved in those laws of nature of which we have a know­
ledge become then only clearly known, when the laws of nature
are discovered which thus involve the necessary ideal element.
25. But since this is allowed, it may be further asked, how
we are to distinguish between the necessary principle which is
derived from our ideas, and the law of nature which is learnt
by experience. And to this we reply, that the necessary prin­
ciple may be known by the condition which we have already
mentioned as belonging to such principles:— that it is impos­
sible distinctly to conceive the contrary. We cannot conceive
an event without a cause, except we abandon all distinct idea of
cause; we cannot distinctly conceive two straight lines inclosing
space ; and if we seem to conceive this, it is only because we
conceive indistinctly. We cannot conceive 5 and 3 making 7 or
9 ; if a person were to say that he could conceive this, we should
know that he was a person of immature or rude or bewildered
ideas, whose conceptions had no distinctness. And thus we may
take it as the mark of a necessary truth, that we cannot con­
ceive the contrary distinctly.
26. If it be asked what is the test of distinct conception
(since it is upon the distinctness of conception that the matter
depends), we may consider what answer we should give to this
question if it were asked with regard to the truths of geometry.
If we doubted whether any one had these distinct conceptions
which enable him to see the necessary nature of geometrical
truth, we should inquire if he could understand the axioms as
axioms, and could follow, as demonstrative, the reasonings which
are founded upon them. If this were so, we should be ready to
pronounce that he had distinct ideas of space, in the sense now
supposed. And the same answer may be given in any other
case. That reasoner has distinct conceptions of mechanical
causes who can see the axioms of mechanics as axioms, and can
follow the demonstrations derived from them as demonstrations.
If it be said that the science, as presented to him, may be
erroneously constructed; that the axioms may not be axioms*
THE FUNDAMENTAL ANTITHESIS OF PHILOSOPHY. 6 6 5
and therefore the demonstrations may be futile, we still reply,
that the same might be said with regard to geometry: and yet
that the possibility of this does not lead us to doubt either of
the truth or of the necessary nature of the propositions contained
in Euclid’s Elements. We may add further, that although, no
doubt, the authors of elementary books may be persons of con­
fused minds, who present as axioms what are not axiomatic
truths; yet that in general, what is presented as an axiom by
a thoughtful man, though it may include some false interpreta­
tion or application of our ideas, will also generally include some
principle which really is necessarily true, and which would still
be involved in the axiom, if it were corrected so as to be true
instead of false. And thus we still say, that if in any depart­
ment of science a man can conceive distinctly at all, there are
principles the contrary of which he cannot distinctly conceive,
and which are therefore necessary truths.
27. But on this it may be asked, whether truth can thus
depend upon the particular state of mind of the person who con­
templates it ; and whether that can be a necessary truth which
is not so to all men. And to this we again reply, by referring
to geometry and arithmetic. It is plain that truths may bo
necessary truths which are not so to all men, when we include
men of confused and perplexed intellects; for to such men it is
not a necessary truth that two straight lines cannot inclose a
space, or that 14 and 17 are S I . It need not be wondered at,
therefore, if to such men it does not appear a necessary truth
that reaction is equal and opposite to action, or that the quantity
of matter in the world cannot be increased or diminished. And
this view of knowledge and truth does not make it depend upon
the state of mind of the student, any more than geometrical
knowledge and geometrical truth, by the confession of all, depend
upon that state. We know that a man cannot have any know­
ledge of geometry without so much of attention to the matter of
the science, and so much of care in the management of his own
thoughts, as is requisite to keep his ideas distinct and clear.
But we do not, on that account, think of maintaining that geome­
trical truth depends merely upon the state of the student's mind.
We conceive that he knows it because it is true, not that it is
true because he knows it. We are not surprized that attention
and care and repeated thought should be requisite to the clear
apprehension of truth. For such care and such repetition are
666 ESSAY V.
requisite to the distinctness and clearness of our ideas: and yet
the relations of these ideas, and their consequences, are not pro­
duced by the efforts of attention or repetition which we exert.
They are in themselves something which we may discover, but
cannot make or change. The idea of space, for instance, which
is the basis of geometry, cannot give rise to any doubtful pro­
positions. -What is inconsistent with the idea of space cannot
be truly obtained from our ideas by any efforts of thought or
curiosity; if we blunder into any conclusion inconsistent with
the idea of space, our knowledge, so far as this goes, is no know­
ledge ; any more than our observation of the external world
would be knowledge, if, from haste or inattention, or imper­
fection of sense, we were to mistake the object which we eee
before us.
28. But further: not only has truth this reality, (which
makes it independent of our mistakes,) that it must be what is
really consistent with our ideas; but also, a further reality, to
which the term is more obviously applicable, arising from the
principle already explained, that ideas and perceptions are in­
separable. For since, when we contemplate our ideas, they
have been frequently embodied and exemplified in objects, and
thus have been fixed and modified; and since this compound
aspect is that under which we constantly have them before us,
and free from which they cannot be exhibited ; our attempts to
make our ideas clear and distinct will constantly lead us to con­
template them as they are manifested in those external forms in
which they are involved. Thus in studying geometrical truth,
we shall bo led to contemplate it as exhibited in visible and
tangible figures ;— not as if these could be sources of truth, but
as enabling us more readily to compare the aspects which our
ideas, applied to the world of objects, may assume. And thus
we have an additional indication of the reality of geometrical
truth, in the necessary possibility of its being capable of being
exhibited in a visible or tangible form. And yet even this test
by no means supersedes the necessity of distinct ideas, in order
to a knowledge of geometrical truth. For in the case of the
duplication of the cube by Hobbes, mentioned above, the diagram
which he drew made two points appear to coincide, which did
not really, and by the nature of our idea of space, coincide; and
thus confirmed him in his errour.
. Thus the inseparable nature o f the Fundamental Antithesis of
THE FUNDAMENTAL ANTITHESIS OF PHILOSOPHY. 667
Ideas and Things gives reality to our knowledge, and makes objec­
tive reality a corrective of our subjective imperfections in the pur­
suit of knowledge. But this objective exhibition of knowledge can
by no means supersede a complete development of the subjective con­
dition, namely, distinctness of ideas. And that there is a subjective
condition, by no means makes knowledge altogether subjective, and
thus deprives it of reality ; because, as we have said, the subjective
and the objective elements are inseparably bound together in the
fundamental antithesis.
29. It would be easy to apply these remarks to other cases,
for instance, to the case of the principle we have just mentioned,
that the difference« of elementary composition of different kinds
of bodies must be definite. We have stated that this principle
is necessarily true;— that the contrary proposition cannot be
distinctly conceived. But by whom ? Evidently, according to
the preceding reasoning, by a person who distinctly conceives
Kinds, as marked by intelligible names, and Composition, as
determining the kinds of bodies. Persons new to chemical and
classificatory science may not possess these ideas distinctly ; or
rather, cannot possess them distinctly ; and therefore cannot
apprehend the impossibility of conceiving the opposite of the
above principle ; just as the schoolboy cannot apprehend the
impossibility of the numbers in his multiplication table being
other than they are. But this inaptitude to conceive, in either
case, does not alter the necessary character of the truth : although,
in one case, the truth is obvious to all except schoolboys and
the like, and the other is probably not clear to any except those
who have attentively studied the philosophy of elementary com­
positions. At the same time, this difference of apprehension of
the truth in different persons does not make the truth doubtful
or dependent upon personal qualifications ; for in proportion as
persons attain to distinct ideas, they will see the truth ; and
cannot, with such ideas, see anything as truth which is not
truth. When the relations of elements in a compound become
as familiar to a person as the relations of factors in a multipli­
cation table, he will then see what are the necessary axioms of
chemistry, as he now sees the necessary axioms of arithmetic.
30. There is also one other remark which I will here make.
In the progress of science, both the elements of our knowledge
are constantly expanded and augmented. By the exercise of
observation and experiment, we have a perpetual accumulation
668 ESSAY V.
of facts, the materials of knowledge, the objective element. By
thought and discussion, we have a perpetual development of
man's ideas going on : theories are framed, the materials of
knowledge are shaped into form ; the subjective element is
evolved; and by the necessary coincidence of the objective and
subjective elements, the matter and the form, the theory and
the facts, each of these processes furthers and corrects the other:
each element moulds and unfolds the other. Now it follows,
from this constant development of the ideal portion of our know­
ledge, that we shall constantly be brought in view of new Neces­
sary Principles, the expression of the conditions belonging to
the Ideas which enter into our expanding knowledge. These
principles, at first dimly seen and hesitatingly asserted, at last
become clearly and plainly self-evident. Such is the case with
the principles which are the basis of the laws of motion. Such
may soon be the case with the principles which are the basis of
the philosophy of chemistry. Such may hereafter be the case
with the principles which are to be the basis of the philosophy
of the connected and related polarities of chemistry, electricity,
galvanism, magnetism. That knowledge is possible in these
cases, we know ; that our knowledge may be reduced to prin­
ciples gradually more simple, we also know ; that we have
reached the last stage of simplicity of our principles, few culti­
vators of tho subject will be disposed to maintain ; and that the
additional steps which lead toward very simple and general
principles will also lead to principles which recommend them­
selves by a kind of axiomatic character, those who judge from
the analogy of the past history of science will hardly doubt.
That the principles thus axiomatic in their form, do also express
some relation of our ideas, of which experiment and observation
have given the true and real interpretation, is the doctrine
which I have here attempted to establish and illustrato in the
most clear and undoubted of the existing sciences ; and the
evidence of this doctrine in those cases seems to be unexception­
able, and to leave no room to doubt that such is the universal
type of the progress of science. Such a doctrine, as we have
now seen, is closely connected with the views here presented of
the nature of the Fundamental Antithesis of Philosophy, which
I have endeavoured to illustrate.
ESSAY VI.
REMARKS ON A REVIEW OF THE PHILOSOPHY OF THE
INDUCTIVE SCIENCES*.
Trinity Lodge, April 11th, 1844.
My Dear Hersctiel,
Being about to send you a copy of a paper on a philo­
sophical question just printed in the Transactions of our Cam­
bridge Society, I am tempted to add, as a private communication,
a few Remarks on another aspect of the same question. These
Remarks I think I may properly address to you. They will
refer to an Article in the “ Quarterly Review'' for June 1841,
respecting my 4
4History” and 4
4Philosophy" of the Inductive
Sciences; and without assigning any other reason, I may say
that the interest I know you to take in speculations on such
subjects makes me confident that you will give- a reasonable
attention to what I may have to say on the subject of that
Article. With the Reviewal itself, I am so far from having
any quarrel, that when it appeared I received it as affording all
that I hoped from Public Criticism. The degree and the kind
of admiration bestowed upon my works by a writer so familiar
with science, so comprehensive in his views, and so equitable in
his decisions, as the Reviewer manifestly w*as, I accepted as giving
my work a stamp of acknowledged value which few other hands
could have bestowed.
You may perhaps recollect, however, that the Reviewer dis­
sented altogether from some of the general views which I had
maintained, and especially from a general view which is also, in
the main, that presented in the preceding Essay, namely,
that, besides Facts, Ideas are an indispensable source of our
knowledge ; that Ideas are the ground of necessary truth ; that
the Idea of Space, in particular, is the ground of the necessary
truths of geometry. This question, and especially as limited to
the last form, will be the subject of my Remarks in the first
place ; and I wish to consider the Reviewers objections with the
respect which their subtlety and depth of thought well deserve.
The Reviewer makes objections to the account which I have
* A Letter to Sir John F. W. Herschel, Bart.
6 7 0 ESSAY VI.
given of the source whence geometrical truth derives its charac­
ters of being necessary and universal ; but he is not one of those
metaphysicians who deny those characters to the truths of geo­
metry. He allows in the most ample manner that the truths
of geometry are necessary. The question between us therefore
is, From what this character is derived? The Reviewer prefers,
indeed, to have it considered that the question is not concerning
the necessity, but, as he says, the universality of these truths ;
or rather, the nature and grounds of our conviction of their
universality. He might have said, with equal justice, the nature
and grounds of our conviction of their necessity. For his objec­
tion to the term necessity in this case— Mthat all the propositions
about realities are necessarily true, since every reality must be
consistent with itself," (p. 206)— does not apply to our convic­
tion of necessity, since we may not be able to see what are the
properties of real things ; and therefore may have no conviction
of their necessity. It may be a necessary property of salt to be
soluble, but we see no such necessity ; and therefore the asser­
tion of such a property is not one of the necessary truths with
which we are here concerned. But to turn back to the necessary
or universal truths of geometry, and the ground of those attri­
butes :— The main difference between the Author and the Re­
viewer is brought into view, when the Reviewer discusses the
general argument which I had used, in order to show that truths
which we see to be necessary and universal cannot be derived
from experience. The argument is this,—
“ Experience must always consist of a limited number of
observations ; and however numerous these may be, they can
show nothing with regard to the infinite number of cases in
which the experiment has not been made........ Truths can only
be known to be general, not universal, if they depend upon
experience alone. Experience cannot bestow that universality
which she herself cannot have ; nor that necessity of which she
has no comprehension/” (Phil. i. pp. 63, 64.)
Here is that which must be considered as the cardinal argu­
ment on this subject. It is therefore important to attend to the
answer which the Reviewer makes to it. He says,—
“ We conceive that a full answer to this argument is afforded
by the nature of the inductive propensity,— by the irresistible
impulse of the mind to generalize ad infinitum, when nothing in
the nature of limitation or opposition offers itself to the imagi-
REMARKS, ETC. 6 71
nation; and by our involuntary application of the law of con­
tinuity to fill up, by the same ideal substance of truth, every
interval which uncontradicted experience may have left blank in
our inductive conclusion.''1 (p. 207.)
Now here we have two rival explanations of the same thing,—
the conviction of the universality of geometrical truths. The
one explanation is, that this universality is imposed upon such
truths by their involving a certain element, derived from the
universal mode of activity of the mind when apprehending such
truths, which element I have termed an Idea. The other ex­
planation is, that this universality arises from the i'ridudive pro­
pensity— from the irresistible impulse to generalize ad infinitum—
from the involuntary application of the law of continuity— from
the filling up all intervals with the same ideal substance of truth.
With regard to these two explanations, I may observe, that
so far as they are thus stated they do not necessarily differ.
They both agree in expressing this; that the ground of the
universality of geometrical truths is a certain law of the mind's
activity, which determines its procedure when it is concerned in
apprehending the external world. One explanation says, that
we impress upon the external world the relations of our ideas,
and thus believe more than we see,— the other says, that we -
have an irresistible impulse to introduce into our conviction a
relation between what we do observe and what we do not,
namely, to generalize ad infinitum from what we do see. One
explanation says, that we perceive all external objects as in­
cluded in absolute ideal space,— the other, that we fill up the
intervals of the objects which we perceive with the same ideal
substance of truth. Both sets of expressions may perhaps be
admissible ; and if admitted, may be understood as expressing
the same opinions, or opinions which have much in common. The
Author's expressions have the advantage, which ought to belong
to them, as the expressions employed in a systematic work, of
being fixed expressions, technical phrases, intentionally selected,
uniformly and steadily employed whenever the occasion recurs.
The Reviewer’s expressions are more lively and figurative, and
such as well become an occasional composition ; but hardly such
as could be systematically applied to the subject in a regular
treatise. We could not, as a standard and technical phrase,
talk of “ filling up the intervals of observation with the same ideal
substance of t r u t h a n d the “ inevitable impulse to generalize”
would hardly sufficiently express that we generalize according to
6 7 2 ESSAY VI.
a certain idea, namely, the idea of space. Perhaps that which
is suggested to us as the common import of the two sets of ex­
pressions may be conveyed by some other phrase, in a manner
free from the objections which lie against both the Author s and
the Critic’s terms. Perhaps the mental Idea governing our
experience, and the irresistible Impulse to generalize our obser­
vation, may both be superseded by our speaking of a Law of the
mind’s Activity, which is really implied in both. There operates,
in observing the external world, a law of the mind’s activity, by
which it connects its observations; and this law of the mind’s
activity may be spoken of either as the Idea of space, or as the
irresistible Impulse to generalize the relations of space which it
observes. And this expression— the lance of the mind's activity—
thus opposed to that merely passive function by which the mind
receives the impressions of sense, may be applied to other ideas
as well as to the idea of space, and to the impulse to generalize
in other truths as well as those of geometry.
So far, it would seem, that the Author and the Critic may
be brought into much nearer agreement than at first seemed
likely, with regard to the grounds of the necessity and univer­
sality in our knowledge. But even if we adopt this conciliatory
suggestion, and speak of the necessity and universality of certain
truths as arising from the Laws of the mind's Activity, we can­
not, without producing great confusion, allow ourselves to say,
as the Critic says, that these truths are thus derived from
experience, or from observation. It will, I say, be found fatal
to all philosophical precision of thought and language, to say
that the fundamental truths of geometry, the axioms, with
the conviction of their necessary truth, are derived from expe­
rience. Let us take any axiomatic truth of geometry, and ask
ourselves if this is not so.
It is, for example, an axiom in geometry that if a straight
line cut one of two parallel straight lines, it must cut the other
also. Is this truth derived or derivable from observation of
actual parallel lines, and a line cutting them, exhibited to our
senses! Let those who say that we do acquire this truth by
observation, imagine to themselves the mode in which the
observation must be made. We have before us two parallel
straight lines, and we see that a straight line which cuts the
one cuts the other also. We see this again in another case, it
may be, the angles and the distances being different, and in a
third, and in a fourth; and so on; and generalizing, we are
REMARKS, ETC. 6 7 3
irresistibly led to believe the assertion to be universally true.
But can any one really imagine this to be the mode in which
we arrive at this truth! “ We see,” says this explanation,
“ two parallel straight lines, cut by a third.” But how do we
know that the observed lines are parallel ? If we apply any test
of parallelism, we must assume some property of parallels, and
thus involve some axiom on the subject, which we have no more
right to assume than the one now under consideration. We
should thus destroy our explanation as an account of the mode
of arriving at independent geometrical axioms. But probably
those who would give such an explanation would not do this.
They would not suppose that in observing this property of
parallels we try by measurement whether the lines are parallel.
They would say, I conceive, that we suppose lines to be parallel,
and that then we see that the straight line which cuts the one
must cut the other. That when we make this supposition, we
are persuaded of the truth of the conclusion, is certain. But
what I have to remark is, that this being so, the conclusion is
the result, not of observation, but of the hypothesis. The geo­
metrical truth here spoken of, after this admission, no longer
flows from experience, but from supposition. It is not that we
ascertain the lines to be parallel, and then find that they have
this property: but we suppose the lines to be parallel, and
therefore they have this property. This is not a truth of
experience.
This, it may be said, is so evident that it cannot have been
overlooked by a very acute reasoner, such as you describe your
Critic to be. What, it may be asked, is the answer which he
gives to so palpable an objection as this! How does he under­
stand his assertion that we learn the truth of geometrical axioms
from experience (p. 208), so as to make it tenable on his own
principles ? What account does he give of the origin of such
axioms which makes them in any sense to be derived from
experience!
In justioe to the Reviewer’s fairness (which is unimpeach­
able throughout his argumentation) it must be stated that he
does give an account in which he professes to show how this is
done. And the main step of his explanation consists in intro­
ducing the conception of direction, and unity of direction. He
says (p. 208), " The unity of direction, or that we cannot march
V O L . I I . W . P . X X
Digitized by Googk
6 7 4 ESSAY VI.
from a given point by more than one path direct to the tame
object, is a matter of practical experience, long before it can by
possibility become matter of abstract thought.“
" We might ask
here, as in the former case, how this can be a matter of experi­
ence, except we have some independent test of directness l and
we might demand to know what, this test is. Or do we not
rather, here as in the other case, suppose the directness of the
path ; and is not the singleness of the direct path a consequence,
not of its observed form, but of its hypothetical directness ; and
thus by no means a result of experience? But we may put our
remark upon this deduction of the geometrical axiom in another
form. We generalize, it is said, the observations which we
have made ever since we were born. But this term wgeneral­
ize is far too vague to pass for an explanation, without being
itself explained. We are impelled to believe that to be true in
general which we see to be true in particular. But how do we
see any truth ? How do we pick out any proposition with respect
to a diagram which we see before us? We see in particular,
and state in general, some truth respecting straight lines or
parallel lines, or concerning direction. But where do we find
the conception of straightness, or parallelism, or direction!
These conceptions are not upon the surface of things. The
child does not, from his birth, see straightness and parallelism
so as to know that he sees them. How then does his experience
bear upon a proposition in which these conceptions are involved?
It is said that it is a matter of experience long before it is a
matter of abstract thought. But how can there be any expe­
rience by which we learn these properties of a straight line, till
our thoughts are at least so abstract as to conceive what
straightness is ? If it be said that this conception grows with
our experience, and is gradually unfolded with our unfolding
materials of knowledge, so as to give import and significance to
them: I need make no objection to such a statement, except
this— that this power of unfolding out of the mind conceptions
which give meaning to our experience, is something in addition
to the mere employment of our senses upon the external world.
It is what I have called the ideal part of our knowledge. It
implies, not only an impulse to generalize from experience, but
also an impulse to form conceptions by which generalization is
possible. It requires, not only that nothing should oppose the
REMARKS, ETC. 6 7 5
tendency, but that the direction in which the tendency is to
operate should be determined by the laws of the mind’s activity;
by an internal, not by any external agency.
One main ground on which the Reviewer is disposed to
quarrel with and reject several of the expressions used in the
Philosophy ;— such as that space is an Idea, a Form of our per­
ception, and the like,— is this ; that such expressions appear to
deprive the external world of its reality ; to make it, or at least
most of its properties, a creation of the observing mind. He
quotes the following argument which is urged in the u Philo­
sophy/’ in order to prove that space is not a notion obtained
from experience : “ Experience gives us information concerning
things without us, but our apprehending them as without us
takes for granted their existence in space. Experience ac­
quaints us with the form, position, magnitude, &c. of particular
objects, but that they have form, position, magnitude, pre-sup-
poses that they are in space.” From this statement he alto­
gether dissents. “ No,” says he, “ the reason why we apprehend
things as without us is that they are without us. We take for
granted that they exist in space, because they do so exist, and
because such their existence is a matter of direct perception,
which can neither be explained in words nor contravened in
imagination: because, in short, space is a reality, and not a
mere matter of convention or imagination.”
Now, if by calling space an idea, we suggest any doubt
of its reality and of the reality of the external world, we
certainly run the risk of misleading our readers; for the ex­
ternal world is real if anything be real: the bodies which exist
in space are things, if things are anywhere to be found. That
bodies do exist in space, and that that is the reason why we
apprehend them as existing in space, I readily grant. But I
conceive that the term Idea ought not to suggest any such
doubt of the reality of the knowledge in which it is involved.
Ideas are always, in our knowledge, conjoined with facts. Our
real knowledge is knowledge, because it involves Ideas, real,
because it involves Facts. We apprehend things as existing in
space because they do so exist: and our idea of space enables
us so to observe them, and so to conceive them.
But we want, further, a reason why, apprehending them as
they are, we also apprehend, that in certain relations they
could not be otherwise (that two straight linear objects could
6 7 6 ESSAY VI.
not inclose a space, for instance). This circumstance is no
way accounted for by saying that we apprehend them as they
are; and is, I presume to say, inexplicable, except by supposing
that it arises from some property of the observing mind:— an
Idea, as I have termed it,— an irresistible Impulse to general­
ize, as the Reviewer expresses it. Or, as I have suggested, we
may adopt a third phrase, a Law of the Mind’s Activity: and in
order that no question may remain, whether we ascribe reality
to the objects and relations which we observe, we may describe
it as “ a Law of the mind's activity in apprehending what is.”
And thus the real existence of the object, and the ideal element
which our apprehension of it introduces, would both be clearly
asserted.
I am ready to use expressions which recognize the reality
of space and other external things more emphatically than
those expressions which I have employed in the “ Philosophy,”
if expressions can be found which, while they do this, enable
us to explain the possibility of knowledge, and to analyse the
structure of truth. It is, indeed, extremely difficult to find, in
speaking of this subject, expressions which are satisfactory.
The reality of the objects which we perceive is a profound,
apparently an insoluble problem*. We cannot but suppose
that existence is something different from our knowledge of
existence :— that which exists, does not exist merely in our
knowing that it does:— truth is truth whether we know it or
not. Yet how can we conceive truth, otherwise than as some­
thing known ! How can we conceive things as existing, without
conceiving them as objects of perception! Ideas and Things
are constantly opposed, yet necessarily co-existent. How they
are thus opposite and yet identical, is the ultimate problem of
all philosophy. The successive phases of philosophy have con­
sisted in separating and again uniting these two opposite ele­
ments; in dwelling sometimes upon the one and sometimes upon
the other, as the principal or original or only element; and
then in discovering that such an account of the state of the
case was insufficient. Knowledge requires Ideas. Reality re­
quires Things. Ideas and Things co-exist. Truth is, and is
known. But the complete explanation of these points appears
to be beyond our reach. At least it is not necessary for the
• These remarks were written in 1841. The preceding Essay con­
tains a further discussion of this problem.
REMARKS, ETC. 677
purposes of our philosophy. The reparation of Ideas and Sensar
tions in order to discover the conditions of Knowledge is our
main task. How Ideas and Sensations are united so as to form
Things, does not so immediately concern us.
I have stated that we may, without giving up any material
portion of the Philosophy of Science to which I have been led,
express the conclusions in other phraseology; and that instead
of saying that all our knowledge involves certain Fundamental
Ideas, the sources from which all universal truth is derived, we
may say that there are certain Laws of Mental Activity accord­
ing to which alone all the real relations of things are appre­
hended. If this alteration in the phraseology will make the
doctrines more generally intelligible or acceptable, there is no
reason why it should not be adopted. But I may remark, that
a main purpose of the 4
4Philosophy” was not merely to prove
that there are such Fundamental Ideas or Laws of mental
activity, but to enumerate those of them which are involved in
the existing sciences; and to state the fundamental truths to
which the fundamental ideas lead. This was the task which
was attempted; and if this have been executed with any toler­
able success, it may perhaps be received as a contribution to
the philosophy of science, of which the value is not small, in
whatever terms it be expressed. And this enumeration of funda­
mental ideas, and of truths derived from them, must have some­
thing to correspond to it, in any other mode of expressing that
view of the nature of knowledge which we are led to adopt. If
instead of Fundamental Ideas, we speak of Impulses of general­
ization, or of Laws of mental activity, we must still distinguish
such Impulses, or such Laws, according to the distinctions of
ideas to which the survey of science led us. We shall thus
have a series of groups of Laws, or of classes of generalizing
Impulses, corresponding to the series of Fundamental Ideas
already given. If we employ the language of the Reviewer,
we shall have one generalizing Impulse which suggests relations
of Space; another which directs us to properties of Numbers;
another which deals with Time; another with Cause: another
which groups objects according to Likeness; another which
suggests a Purpose as a necessary relation among them; to
which may be added, even while we confine ourselves to the
physical sciences, several others, as may be seen in the 4
4Philo­
sophy.'1 Now when the fundamental conditions and elements
6 7 8 ESSAY VI.
of truth are thus arranged into groups, it is not a matter of so
much consequence to decide whether each group shall be said
to be bound together by an Idea or by an Impulse of general­
ization ; as it is to see that, if this happen in virtue of Ideas,
here are so many distinct Ideas which enter into the structure
of science, and give universality to its matter; and again, if
this happen in virtue of an irresistible Impulse of generalization
in each case, we have so many different kinds of Impulses of
generalization. The main purpose in the u Philosophy” was to
analyse scientific truth into its conditions and elements ; and 1
did not content myself with saying that those elements are
Sensations and Ideas; the Ideas being that element which
makes universal knowledge conceivable and possible. I went
further: I enumerated the Ideas which thus enter into science.
I showed that in the sciences which I passed in review, the
most acute and profound inquirers had taken for granted that
certain truths in each science are of universal and necessary
validity, and I endeavoured to select the idea in which this uni­
versality and necessity resided, and to separate it from all other
ideas involved in other sciences. If therefore it be thought
better to say that those Principles in each science upon which,
as upon the axioms in geometry, the universality and necessity
of scientific truth depends, are arrived at, not by Ideas, but by
an irresistible Impulse of generalization, those who employ such
phraseology, if they make a classification of such Impulses cor­
responding to my classification of Ideas, will still adopt the
greater part of my philosophy, altering only the phraseology.
Or if, as I suggested, instead of 4
4Fundamental Ideas,” we use
the phrase 4
4Laws of Mental Activity,” then our primary intel­
lectual Code— the Constitution of our minds, as it may be
termed—will consist of a Body of Laws of which the Titles
correspond with the Fundamental Ideas of the 4
4Philosophy.”
My object was, from the writings of the most sagacious
and profound philosophers who have laboured on each science,
to extract such a code, such a constitution. If I have in any
degree succeeded in this, the result must have a reality and a
value independently of all forms of expression. Still, I do not
think that any language can ever serve for such legislation, in
which the two elements of truth are not distinguished. Even
if we adopt the phraseology which I have just employed, we
shall have to recollect that Law and Fact must bo kept die-
REMARKS, ETC. 6 7 9
tinct, and that the Constitution has its Principles as well as its
History.
But I will not longer detain you by seeking other modes
of expressing the Fundamental Antithesis to which the pre­
ceding Essay refers. The Remarks which I here send you
were written three years ago, on the appearance of the Review
which I have quoted. If I succeed in obtaining for them a few
minutes' attention from you and a few other friends, I shall be
glad that they have been preserved.
I am, my dear Herschel,
always truly yours,
W. WHEWELL.
P.S. I have spared you a large portion of my Remarks as
originally written. I had gone on to show that, in my MPhilo­
sophy,” I had not only enumerated and analysed a great number
of different Fundamental Ideas which belong to the different
existing sciences, but that I had also shown in what manner
these ideas enter into their respective sciences; namely, by the
statement or use of Axioms, which involve the ideas, and which
form the basis of each science when systematically exhibited. A
number of these Axioms, belonging to most of the physical
sciences, are stated in the “ Philosophy.” I might have added
also, that I have attempted to classify the historical steps by
which such Axioms are brought into view and applied. But it
is not necessary to dwell upon these points, in order to illus­
trate the difference and the agreement between the Reviewer
and me.
Sir John F. W. Herschel, Bari. fyc.
THE END.
