{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1848__anonymous___the_seventh_vial.pdf","mytitle":"The Seventh Vial","mylang":"de"}
~~Gf-Fff~YCtr.
v .___..._i • ..i-_.
JAN 14 1911
l'HF.
SE VENTH YIAJ,
AN EXPOSITION OF THE APOCALYPSE,
AND JS PARTICULAR Oto' T llK
POURING OUT OF THE SEVENTH VlAJ,,
WITH SPECIAL REFJ.~REKCE TO TH J.:
PRESENT REVOLUTIONS IN EUROPE.
by /
Jv.Y'r"le..:::. .Ai-t:.ke·n Wyli'e-
•c And the seventh angel poured out bis vial into the air ; and there came
a great r-oice out of the temple of heaven, from the throne, saying, It is
done. And there were Toices, and thunders, and lightnings ; and there
was a great earthquake, such as was not since men were upon the earth,
so mighty an earth11.uake, and so great.-REv. xyL 17, 18.
LONDON:
JOIIX JOIINSTONE, 26, PATERNOS'l'ER ROW; A~LI
15, PRINCES STREET, EDINDURGII.
)!DCCCXLYIH.
)JILi.KR \ ~:, l'_
\lf:LY, f•J: sn:P.:-- Lf,[,"li!!:l IH;JL
UO~TEXT~.
Pagl!
Introductory Remarks 1
Apocalyptic Symbols . 5
Structure of the Apocalypse 16
Yision of the l\Iighty Angel 46
The Little Book . liS
The O::tth of the Angel 70
The .Measuring of the Temple &O
The Two \Vitnesses lOfi
Avenging Power of the \Vitnesses 124
\Var with the \Vitnesses 137
Death of the \Vitnesses 15S
Resurrection of the \Yitnesses 176
The Ten-Homed and Seven-Headed Beast of the
Sea . 197
The Two-Horned Beast of the Earth . 221
The Commencement and Termination of the 1260
Days 231
The llarpers on l\Iount Zion 250
The Seventh Trumpet 265
The First Five Vials . 275
The Sixth Vial and the Three Frogs 289
The Seventh Vial 299
Yoices, Thunders, and Lightnings 32:3
Great Earthciuake 332
The Tripartition of the Great City 352
.An Angel in the Sun 360
The Vintage 365
The Battle of Armageddon 374
The Harpers by the Sea of Glass 385
THE SEVENTH VIAL.
IN magnificence and terror the judgment of
the Seventh VIAL stands alone. It possesses a
marked pre-eminence over every other judg-
ment in the Volume of Prophecy. Its ven-
gea.nce will be on a. sea.le that shall surpass all
that went before it since the world was destroy-
ed by water, and all that shall come after it till
the world shall again be destroyed by fire. It
ranks as one of the three mighty dispensa-
tions, standing midway, as it were, between
the waters that overwhelmed the antediluvian
world, and the fires that shall consume the post-
diluvian. Viewed in all its comprehensiveness
as the closing act of a great' drama, which be-
2 TIIE SF:YE~Tll \'L\L.
gan so early as the days of Daniel, and ever
since has been admncing step by step to its
consummation, it '"ill form the most finished
demonstration of God's power and justice of
which earth has been the scene, or guilty man
the object. The glory of this event will pene-
trate far into the ·Past, and dart its rays for-
ward into the Future. In the light of thf'
ScYenth Vial the scheme of prophecy will stand
revealed; the admirable wisdom and beautiful
order of past dispensations will be clearly seen ;
a new light will be shed upon the character of
God ; and the great principles of truth and
righteousness will be settled on a stable foun-
dation for all time to come. It is the finishing
of the mystery of God, as He hath declared to
his servants the prophets. How great shall
that ernnt be ! The great empires which the
doom of hcayen overwhelmed righteously of
old,-BaLylon, Egypt, Jerusalem,-were but
types of that CITY on whom this Vial is to be
poured out; and in her consummated ruin shall
all these types find their complete fulfilment.
.\\'ho can conceiYe the terrors of a judgment
THE SEVENTH VIAL.
..,
"
comprehending in itselfthe combined vengeance
and accumulated horrors under which tho great
empires we have named were overthrown ancl
utterly broken? And is it not meet that this
judgment should be one of unexampled terror?
Let us only think of the consolidated strength
of that kingdom which this judgment is to
break in pieces, and of the enormous guilt it is
to avenge. By this stroke, an enemy greater
than Babylon, greater than Edom, greater even
than Imperial Rome, is to be brought down,-
an enemy whose rage and craft, whose malig-
nity and strength, have never been surpass-
ed, nevel" equalled,-an enemy which has com-
mitted more crimes,.and violated more oaths,-
which has shed more blood, and crushed more
victims,-which has brought more woes upon
the earth;-seduced and destroyed more souls,
-offered a more determined opposition to the
cause of God,-and defied God himself with
more effrontery, and that for a longer tirne,-
than any other enemy that ever arose. It is
this enemy whom the Seventh Vial is to sweep
away. The prayers and hopes of the Church
4 THE SEYENTII VIAL.
have looked forward to this event during past
ages ; and when it shall have been accomplish-
ed, her songs and thanksgivings will look back
upon it throughout all succeeding eras. That
was a majestic hymn sung of old on the shore
of the Red Sea. A nobler song is yet to burst
upon the world. \Vhen a greater enemy shall
fall than he whose destruction the timbrel of
Miriam celebrated, a shout of joy shall publish
it to the ends of the earth; and the melody of
that shout, rolling in triumphant numbers over
the world, shall meet its re-echo from the
heavens, in the halleluias of angels, and the
songs of prophets, and apostles, and martyrs.
"Rejoice over her, thou heaven, and ye holy
apostles and prophets ; for God hath avenged
you on her. And again they said, Alleluia.
And he1· smoke rose up for ever and·ever."
APOCALYPTIC SYMBOLS. 5
APOCALYPTIC SYMBOLS.
THE key of the Apocalypse is to be sought in
the Old Testament Scriptures. This is the
briefest, and perhaps the best, rule that can
be laid down for the interpretation of this book.
"\Ye do not know that there is a really new
symbol made use of in it from beginning to end.
There is not a single figure or character ad-
mitted whose use had not been already sanc-
tioned, and its meaning determined, in the law,
the Psalms, or the prophets. The Apocalypse
differs froin them only in that it is symbolical
throughout. It resembles those monuments
and temples of Egypt, which, being wholly
written over with hieroglyphics, were illegible
till the accidental discovery of the Rosetta
stone. This furnished the key; and instantly
the graven monuments of that ancient land
TUE SE,.EXTH YI AL.
stood forth, fraught with the secrets of past
a;;es. Jn some chapter of Isaiah, or in some
Psalm, we find the Rosetta stone of the Apoca-
lypse: \YC mean that we there find this und the
other symbol used in such a way that it is im-
possible to miss its meaning. Thus we make
out an alphabet, by the aid of which we come
to read the whole of this symbolic writing. In
the prophets the heavenly bodies uniformly
l'ymbolize the rulers of kingdoms. \Ve find
this symbol employed, particularly in the de-
nunciations against Egypt and Babylon. Of
Bgypt Ezekiel says,-" I will cover the sun
with a cloud, and the moon slrnll not give her
light. All the bright lights of heaven will J
make <lark over thee." From the Psalms we
learn that a vine is the symbol of the true
Church:-" Thou hast brought a vine out of
Egypt." In Ezekiel and other books of Scrip-
ture we find the false Church exhibited under
the symbol of an harlot. In Daniel we are
tolcl that a wild beast is the symbol of a con-
(1uering and despotic power; and that a horn
denotes a kingdom. Thus, by diligent search
APOCALYPTIC SY)lBOLS. i
in the Scriptures, we discover the symbols here
employed in such connection, that their mean-
ing is obvious ; and when we meet the same
symbol in the Apocalypse, we have only to
transfer its ascertained meaning to the predic-
tion under review, and, without more ado, we
translate it into plain language. Thus we come
to read off the Apocalyptic prophecies much as
we would any ordinary writing. As an ex-
ample of the way in which an alphabet of the
Apocalypse might be made out, we may in-
stance a few of its more important symbols.
Earth symbolizes society in a settled state. Sea,
society in a state of convulsion. Rivers, na-
tions. Mountains and islands, great and small
kingdoms. Air, the political atmosphere.
Heaven, the civil or ecclesiastical firmament.
Sun, the monarch. Stars, inferior rulers. Hail
and thunder, wars. Earthquake, revolution.
Head, form ofgovernment. Horn, king or king-
dom. Bow, war. Crown, ,·ictory. Altar, mar-
tyrdom. Coals, severe judgments. Yine, a
church. Rainbow, a covenant. Key, ecclesias-
tical authority. Angel, ~t minister of Gocl's pur-
8 THE SEVENTH \'IAL.
poses. Having determined the import of the
individual symbols, it becomes easy to interpret
them when found in combination. Thus, when
we are shown in the Apocalyptic drama, coals
of fire taken from the altai· and cast upon the
eart!t, \Ye understand that the action indicated
is the infliction of terrible Judgments, on ac·
count of the i;iai·ty1'dom ofthe saints, on the in-
habitants of the Roman woi-ld. Again, when
we read, "And I stood upon the sand of the
sea, and suw a beast rise up out of the sea,
having seven heads and ten horns, and upon
his horns ten crowns, and upon his heads the
name of blasphemy," all that is necessary to
the right interpretation of the prophecy is to
give to each of its component symbols its ap-
propriute meaning. Dealt with on this prin-
ciple, the passage reads as follows :-I was
shown (sea) society in a state of convulsion,
and out of these connilsions emerged a (beast)
powerful despotic monarchy, having, ?'.. e. hav-
ing had, seven (lieads) distinct forms of govern-
ment, but broken up at the time of its emer-
gence into ten (hoi·ns) separate kingdoms, with
APOCALYPTIC SYYBOLS.
their (crowns upon the lt0rns) kings ; each of its
seven forms of government possessing an im-
pious and idolatrous character, as intimated by
the name of blasphemy upon its seven heads.
Amid the closing scenes of the Apocalypse
there occurs the following:-" And another
angel came out of the temple which is in
heaven, he also having a sharp sickle. And
another angel came out from the altar, which
had power over fire ; and cried with a lou<l cry
to him that had the sharp sickle, saying, Thrust
in thy sharp sickle, and gather the clusters of
the vine of the earth; for her grapes are fully
ripe." "'hat a picture of the final doom of the
Papacy ! No description could convey, in ten
times the space, one half of what these few sym-
bols disclose respecting the manner and severity
of Babylon's destruction. A vine is before us,
-the symbol of a Church; but it is the vine
of the earth,-a false Church. The Yine is ripe,
and is to be cut down. The idolatrous faith of
Romo has landed her adherents in downright
infidelity and atheism,-the natural fruit of su-
perstition. Men who believe in no God can be
JO TIJE SEYEl\TJT VIAL.
gm·crne1l by no law; and now an end is come.
Accordingly, an angel,-a minister of God's
rnngeance,-appcars upon the scene, having the
instrnment of destruction,-a sharp sickle :
how sharp, will be seen when the time comes.
The command to thrust in the sickle and begin
the work of destruction comes from the altar,
and is given by the angel who has power over
fire. To Rome, at such an hour, the altar was
a symbol of terrific import; it reminded her of
the blood she had shed. From the altar as-
cended the cry, " How long, 0 Lordr' And
now from the altar comes the command,
·' Thrust in thy sharp sickle ;" and from the
altar, too, is taken the fire in which Rome is
consumed.
There are two rules '"hich must be rigidly
adhered to, otherwise our interpretations of
the Apocalypse c::in possess neither certainty
nor consistency. First, we must always treat
its symbols as such. 'Ve must not regard
them as figures in one place, and literal de-
scriptions in another. The earth can never
mean liternlly the earth, but some other thing,
APOCALYPTIC SY:llllOLS. II
-society in a particular state. 'Vhen we
read, " In the earthquake were slain of men
seven thousand," we must understand the state-
ment as having reference, not to a literal, but
a symbolic slaughter,-the defection from a.
certain interest, of a large body of adherents.
And so with regard to all the symbols in tho
Apocalypse. There are interpreters of no
mean name who disregard this rule. Second,
we must always give the same interpretation
to the same symbol. Just as we attribute the
same power to tho same alphabetic character,
and just as we attach one meaning to the
same hieroglyphic, wherever we find it on the
Egyptian monuments, so we must preserve
uniformity in our interpretations of the Apo-
calyptic symbols. A slight variety of inter-
pretation may be admitted ; but that variety
must never be inconsistent with, but always
embody, the radical meaning of the symbol.
If we find that the meaning which we have
given to a certain symbol does not caITy us
from beginning to end of the Apocalypse, and
that it is not in all places perfectly natural
12 THE SE\'El\TH YIAI,.
and easy, and that its interpretation does not
piece in with that of the other symbols with
which it stands in combination, we may be
sure that we have not yet discovered its true
import. There will always, till the Apocalypse
has been all fulfilled, be some doubt about the
commencement and termination of its grand
epochs ; but if regard be had to what we have
now said respecting the interpretation of its
symbols, there can be no difficulty in determin-
ing the character ofthe great eyents which the
Apocalypse predicts.
There are some '"ho regard tho Apocalypse
as wanting in arrangement and meaning,-who
decry the study of it, and deny its claims to in-
spiration. And why ? Because it is symboli-
cal. Do such persons depreciate the value and
reject the authenticity of other symbolical writ-
ings? \Vould they not account the labours of
a lifetime well spent in successfully decipher-
ing the Egyptian tablets, and in bringing to
light the secrets which lie hid under the mys-
terious characters which cover the Sinaitic
Mountains ? \Vhy, then, should such take
APOCALYPTIC SY:>IBOLS. J3
offence at this book, because it is written in
symbolic characters ? And why should that
which stimulates ingenuity and excites to la-
bour in other cases, be held as a sufficient
reason for declining all inquiry and investiga-
tion in this? If the graven pillar that rises
amid the sands of the Nile awakens within us
so engrossing an interest, and is regarded with
awe, because it still holds forth, to those who
can .read its record, those great transactions
of the past which gave to Egypt her glory and
renown, would it not be strange if we should
regard without either awe or interest this ve-
nerable monument, which God himself has set
np in the field of revelation? vVe wish to
know the future : here it is already come.
\Ve wish·to know how the world's drama shall
end : here it is already wound up. The past,
the present, and the future, here meet. Let
us turn aside, then, and see this great sight.
By the help of these heaven-engr:wen hiero-
glyphics, we can survey the whole history of
the Christian Church at a single glance. \Ve
H THE SE\'ENTH YIAL.
can trace her path from the Mount of Olives
to the gates of that holy city, New Jerusalem,
which John saw coming down from God out of
heaven. 'Ve see her in all the variety of her
earthly condition ;-in the wilderness, where
for twelve hundred and sixty years she was
clothed in sackcloth ; engaged in war with
the beast, and her blood flowing like water ;
on Mount Zion, \\·ith the Lamb in white,
ascribing salvation, and glory, aml honour, and
power, unto God, when she sees the smoke of
Babylon's torment; living and reigning with
Christ a thousand years ; delivered from a
dreadful combination of foes to be formed
against her at the close of time; redeemed at
last from the grave itself; and, after all her
toils, entering in, and made to dwell through
ages that have no end, amid the living waters
of the paradise of God. Brought thus into
one view, we are the better able to trace the
admirable order and progression that reign
among these events, and especially among
those more immediately under our review, and
APOCALYPTIC SY111l30LS.
which fill up the long and momentous period
extending from the white horse of the First
Seal, to the lightnings, and thunders, and earth·
quake of the Seventh Vial.
JG TIIE SE\'E~TII VIAL.
STRGCTURE OF THE APOCALYPSE.
IN order that our readers may be the more
able to perceive the force and truth of our
statements and conclusions respecting the Se-
venth Vial, we propose introducing ourselves
to it by a rapid survey of the whole of that
grand drama, of which this Vial is the closing
act. \Vc shall m:tke the tenth chapter of the
Apocalypse our starting point,-a position bet-
ter adapted than any other, perh:tps, for look-
ing around and taking a survey of the plan
and structure of this wonderful book. The
Apocalypse is, in brief, a history of the Church,
written in grand symbolical characters, from
the ascension of Christ to his second and glo-
rious coming. On the little stage of Patmos,
a reltearsal of Providence, so to speak, took
place. '!'hose mighty acts which were to fill
STRC"CTURE OF THE APOCALYPSE. l 7
up the history of ages, and of which the ample
territory of the Roman earth was to be the
scene, were made to pass in figure before the
apostle John, who was permitted to behold
them in the character of the representative of
the Church. By the same apostle, under the
inspiration of the Spirit, were these things
committed to writing, and communicated to
the Church, as a help to her faith and pa-
tience during the protracted period when both
should be severely tried. The Apocalypse
opens with a representation of the exaltation
of Christ, and his installation on the right
hand of Goel. This is the grand subject of the
vision of the fourth and fifth chapters. Having
rested a while after the first vision which he
saw (that of the first chapter), John again lift-
ed up his eyes, " and behold a door was open-
ed in heaven,"-denoting the free access now
given to John, and tu the Church through
John, to know t-
he secrets of futurity,-the
grand events of the new dispensation. A great
voice, which in strength and melody the apostle
could compare only to a trumpet, now spake to
B
/ 18 THE SE\'ENTH VIAL.
him, and sa,id, " Come up hither, and I will
show thee things which must be hereafter."
No sooner had the voice spoken to him, than
John seemed to have ascended ; and he pro-
ceeds to describe the august vision which he
saw: "Behold a throne was set in heaven, and
One sa,t on the throne." The heaven of the
vision, where the throne stood, is not that
heaven which is the abode of the blessed. By
the heaven now thrown open to John, we are
to understand the Church ; and the scene is
intended to represent the majesty and grace
with which God there reigns. " And there
was a rainbow round about the throne,"-the
symbol ofthe covenant of perpetuity which God
has established 'vith the Church. Seven lamps
of fire burned before the throne, 'rhich were
the symbol of tht Spirit which is the blessed
source of the Church's light, and ofthe efficacy of
all her ordinances. " And out of the throne pro-
ceeded lightnings, and thunderings, and voices,"
-the Apocalyptic symbols of the dispensations
of Providence, chosen so as strikingly to repre-
sent the terror and sublimity which sometimes
STRUCTURE OF THE APOCALYPSE. 19
accompany these acts, and intimating that
they all proceed from the throne of God. The
gospel ministry is symbolized in the vision by
the four living creatures; and the gifts with
which they are clothed, by their being full of
eyes before and behind ; and the tendency of
all their labours, which is to advance the
Church's profit, and the glory of her Head, by
the song of praise which they are represented
as offering day and night. The members of
the Church generally are represented by the
twenty-four elders, clothed in white, and hav-
ing crowns of gold upon their head ; and the
worship of the Church, by that ascription of
"glory, honour, and power," which is begun
by the four living creatures, and, being taken
up by those that occupied the twenty-four
thrones, is pealed forth by the whole assembly,
and rises in one loud and united anthem around
the great throne in the midst, on which sat One
who was to look upon as a jasper and as a sar-
dine stone, and out of which proceeded the
lightnings, and thunderings, and voices.
The same vision is continued in the fifth
20 THE SEVENTH YL\L.
chapter, only a new object is produced upon
the scene. " Lo, in the midst of the throne,
and of the four beasts, :md in the midst of the
nlders, stood a Lamb as it had been slain,"-
the symbol of Christ as mediator; his priestly
office being prefigured in his appearing as if
He lrnd been shin, and his kingly, in that He
stood in the midst of the throne. John was
next shown, in the right hand of Him that
sat on the throne, a BOOK or roll, sealed with
seven seals ; and whilst he contemplated this
:i.wful book, a mighty angel came forward, and
proclaimed in the -hearing of all creatures, that
it was the will of Him who sat upon the throne
that this book should be opened, and the writ-
ing it contained known, and s::i,ying with a loud
Yoice, ""\Yho is worthy to open the book, and
to loose the seals thereof ?" A profound si-
lence followed the angel's challenge, for " no
m::tn in he::tven, nor in earth, neither under the
earth, was able to open the book, neither to
look thereon." And John wept much, " be-
cause no nmn was found worthy to open the
book." Its seals were likely to remain for
STlffCTt:UE OF Tl!E APOCALYPSE. ~1
ever unbroken, and all within buried 111 1111-
penetrable mystery, till the event should de-
clare it. At this crisis, when heaven and
earth were mute with expectation and fear,
the Lamb came forward, and taking the book
out of the right hand of Him that sat upon
the throne, proceeded to open the seals, and
unroll the volume. 'Vhat is the truth that
lies hid under the veil of this symbolical trans-
action~ Plainly this, even the delegation of
authority to Christ to carry on the work of
Providence, and his assumption of that great
task, signified by the act of taking the sealed
book from the hand of Him that sat on the
throne. "He raised Him from the dead, and
set Him at his own right hand in the heavenly
places, for above all principality, and pO\rcr,
and might, and dominion, and every name that
is named, not only in this world, but also
in that which is to come ; and hath put all
things under his feet, and gave Him to be
head over all things to the Church, which is
his body." Similar were his own 'rnrds to
his disciples just before he ascended : " Jesus
22 THE SEVENTH Vl.\L.
came and spake unto them, saying, All power
is given unto me in heaven and in earth."
This supreme dominion and universal empire,-
for every "principality" in heaven, and every
throne on earth, were put under Him,-were
conferred on the Son as mediator, and for
the purpose of enabling Him to accomplish
the great ends of his mediation. It was ne-
cessary that He should be able to wield every
instrument, and have authority to summon to
his help, and engage in his service, every agent,
in order that He might break in pieces the
kingdom of his great rival, and set up his own
in its room. '\Vhen the tusk of governing a
universe was committed to Him, the resources
of a universe were placed at his disposal. It
would neither have been just on the part of
the Father to have exacted the duty without
conferring the means of fulfilling it, nor wise
on the part of the Son to have entered on the
work wanting the powers which its successful
execution demanded. .As mediator, we say,
was this great commission,-the administration
of Providence,-given to the Son; for it was
STRUCTURE OF THE APOCALYPSE. 23
the Lamb that had been slain that received the
sealed book. And the special and paramount
object for which He undertook this commis-
sion, and which he continues to keep in eye in
its execution, is the preservation of the Church
meanwhile, and her complete triumph at last.
He that presides over all events, arranging,
directing, overruling all, stands not only in the
midst of the throne, but in the midst of the
living creatures, and in the midst of the elders;
that is, in the midst of the Church. This
act gave unbounded joy to the Church, which
hailed with a shout of praise her Saviour's en-
trance on his difficult but glorious work. She
knew that his power and wisdom were ade-
quate to its triumphant execution. Though
yet afar off, and though many a gloomy dispen-
sation was to intervene, and though many a
hard struggle had to be endured, and many a
powerful enemy had to be struck down, yet the
Church confidently anticipated, now that she
saw the sealed roll in the hand of the Lamb,
the advent of victory, because, though distant,
it was certain. She knew that the administra-
2± THE SEYE~TII YIAL.
tion of her Head could have only one issue,
and that issue unspeakably glorious and bless-
ed. Accordingly she shouted for joy. And
that shout was a prelude of that yet more ec-
static song which shall be heard on that day
when Christ's administration shall have termi-
nated in the total discomfiture and final m·er-
throw of the Church's foes, and in her complete
triumph and everlasting reign with her Lord.
"I heard the Yoice of many angels round abo11t
the throne, and the beasts, and the elders ;
and the number of them was ten thousand
times ten thousand, and thousands of thou-·
sands ; saying with a loud yoice, \Vorthy i~
the Lamb that was slain to receive power, and
riches, and wisdom, and strength, and honour,
and blessing. A.ntl every creature which is in
heaYcn, and in the earth, and under the earth,
and such as are in the sea, and all that are
in them, heard I saying, lllessing, and honour,
and glory, and power, be unto Him that sittC'th
upon the throne, and unto the Lamb for ernr
and ever."
Having exhibited in symbol Christ's instal-
STRUCTURF. OF THE APOCALYPSE.
lation on the right hand of God, and his cu-
t.ranee on his great work, the Apocalypse next
presents in figure the various acts of his ad-
ministration. It is here necessary to call to
mind the grand end contemplated in the whole
of that administration, namely, the universal
establishment of his kingdom, the Church, in
the unity, purity, and splendour of the :Millen-
nium, in order to see how each successive act
paved the way for the full attainment, in due
time, of that glorious object. First of all, the
ground had to be cleared. "\Vhen Christ as-
cended and sat down at the right hand of God,
the ground where he had purposed to plant his
Church was occupied by the old pagan em-
pire of Rome. A most degra.ding Polytheism,
deeply founded in the passions and lusts of
men, attired in the garb of a most fascinating
poetry, enjoying the venerable prestige of a
high antiquity, sanctioned by the laws, and pro-
tected and upheld by the military power, of the
Sta,te, was so interwoven with the fabric of
the empire, that it had become necessary, iu
order to eradicate .the one, and strip it of its
26 THE SEYEXTH YIAL.
props an<l defences, that the framework of the
other should be shaken and rent. This was
accomplished in the opening of the seals. Each
seal (see chap. vi.) ushered in a new dispen-
sation to the Roman empire; and by these
successive acts of judgment,-by the passage
across its stage of the red, the black, and the
pale horses,-war, famine, pestilcnce,-that
powerful State was so exhausted and broken,
that at last, in the opening of the sixth seal,
that great revolution was accomplished which
issued in the elevation of Christianity, in the per-
son of Constantine, to the throne of the empire.
There is here a stop in the Apocalyptic
history. 'fhe progression of the symbolical
<lranm now passing before John is arrested.
"\Vith a professedly Christian emperor on the
throne, and with all the helps and facilities
naturally springing therefrom for the diffusion
of Christianity, we expect to be instantly told
of its universal reign. "\Vith the winds of per-
secution and political contention all hushed,
with serene skies over the Church, and nothing
to impede the labours of the spiritual husband-
STRt:CTURE OF THE APOCALYPSE. '27
man, we expect to see him scattering the seed
far and wide, and with zeal worthy of his cause
adding field to field, till at last he had includ-
ed the whole earth within the vineyard of his
Lord. Alas! our anticipations are imddenly
overcast. A ranker idolatry springs up than
that which had been well nigh extirpated. A
murkier night settles down on the world than
any that had ever heretofore darkened its fir-
mament. Fiercer persecutors are seen mov-
ing on the scene than any that had defended
the cause of Paganism with fire and knife.
\Ve are now but a little way off from the com-
mencement of that noted period,-obscurely
hinted atto Daniel,plainlyannounced toJohn,-
the twelve hundred and sixty prophetic days or
years, for which preparations of a very unusual
kind, but requisite, doubtless, are made. This
period was to form the gloomiest, without ex-
ception, in the annals of the world,-the period
of Satan's highest success, and of the Church's
deepest depression; and lest she should become
1luring it utterly extinct, her members, never
so few as then, were all specially sealed. Thus
28 TIIE SEYK\'TH VIAL.
securedby a Divine precautionagainst perishing,
whether by craft or by violence, they ente1· the
doud. The long night passes on, darkening as
it aurnnces ; but the sealed company are not
visible: they disappear from the Apocalyptic
stage, just as they then disappeared from the
observation of the world ; for they fled a"ay,
to escape the dungeons and the fit.es of their
persecutors, to hide in the hoary caves of
earth, or to inhabit the untrodden regions of
the wilderness, or to dwell beneath the shadow
of the Alps,. or to enjoy fellowship with Goel,
unsuspected and unknown, in tho deep seclu-
sion and gloom of some com'ent. But at la.
<>t
the clouds break ::nrny, and the sealed com-
pany, having trod this mllcy of the shadow of
death unhurt, one and all of them come forth,
the hundred forty and four thousand sealed
ones, in white raiment, and carrying palms;
not to hunger and to thirst, as aforetirne, when
the bread and water of life were scantily sup-
plied, nor to be scorched by the hot sun of per-
secution, but to be fed by the Lamb, and to be
led to fountains of living waters. and to ham
STRUCTURE OF THE APOCALYPSE. 29
n.11 tears wiped away from their eyes ; denoting
the happy and prosperous state of the Church
which shall succeed the twelve hundred and
sixty years, and the exemption she shall then
enjoy from all the perils, enemies, and sufferings,
that have hitherto attended her path. This is
the vision of the seventh chapter. The vision
affords us a glimpse of the Church, protected
against no ordinary danger by the seal of the
angel, just before she entered on the fated
twelve hundred and sixty days; and another
glimpse of her as she appeared after she had
come through the "great tribulation" of those
days; but it leaves the events of that disastrous
pcriod,-the fury with which Antichrist had
warred against her, and the noble constancy
with which she had withstood the assault,-un-
told, because these were to form the subject of
future Apocalyptic narration.
After this vision the symbolic scene again
progresses. The eighth chapter takes up the
history exactly at the point where the sixth
had dropped it. The seventh and last seal is
opened, and the seven trumpets begin to be
:::o TUE SEVENTH YIAL.
sounded. The first four trumpets include
those irruptions of the barbarous nations of
the north by which the western Roman em-
pire was completely destroyed, and the let or
hindrance to the appearance of the Man of
Sin, of which the a.postle Paul had spoken,
taken out of the way, and the stage left empty
for the rise of Antichrist. Rome had ceased
to be pagan, and had become Christian ; but
its Christianity was not worth much; and its
imperial gon~rnment still subsisting, it formed
an obstacle to the rise of the Papacy; for how
could the Pope become lord of the world, while
Cresar continued to be so ~ It behoved this em-
pire, therefore, though professedly Christian,
to give place, that the predestined enemy of
Christ might appear. Accordingly each trum-
pet announced the descent of a new calamity
upon the unhappy empire : first 11 tempest of
hail and fire, mingled with blood, swept. across
it,-the symbol of the frightful ravages, extend-
ing from A. D. 396 to !... D. 410,-which tho
Goths under Alaric inflicted on Greece and
· Italy; and of the descent of Rhadagasius, with
STRUCTURE OF THE APOCALYPSE. 31
his host of Vandals, Suevi, and Burgundians,
who, as Gibbon says, " burst like a dark thun-
der-cloud on the Rhmtian and Italian valleys."
Next a burning mountain was cast into its sea,
-the symbol of the Vandals under Genseric,
who began in 429 to desolate Africa with burn-
ing and slaughter, and, by means of his fleet,
ravaged the coast of Italy, Sicily, n.nd Sardinin,.
Next, from its firmament a star shot down,
burning n,s a lamp, and, falling upon its rivers
and fountains, turned them into wormwood.
In this star we behold the scourge of God,
Attila, the king of the Huns, who, returning
from his eastern wars in A.D. 450, crossed tho
Rhine as high as Basie, and descending its
course, mn,de the entire vn.lley through which
it rolls a scene of slaughter, burning its towns
and massacring the inh::i,b!tants. Turning then
to the south, he inflicted on the towns of
!lfantua, Milan, and Venice, the same miseries
as in the cities of the Rhine. But at the
sounding of the fourth trumpet, the empire
which these successive and terrible shocks lmd
brought to the verge of ruin, was utterly dis-
TIIE SE\'El\TII YIAL.
solved. Its dissolution, under this trumpet, is
11ymbolicn.lly exhibited, after the manner of
Scripture "·hen the fall of empires is the
theme, by the darkening of the sun and stars,
-imagery highly appropriate, and imparting
a gloomy grandeur to the subject. About the
year 566, the Senate, and, in short, the entire
framework ofthe Roman Government, were re-
moved; and that proud city, which for so many
ages had held the rank of mistress of the
world, was reduced to the miserable condition
of a tributary dukedom. Thus the stage on
which Antichrist was to appear was now clem·-
ed. The colossal empire which had occupied
it so long had been shivered, and its very frag-
ments swept away. Jolm, however, defers en-
tering on the history of tho Papacy. He with-
dra\YS our attention to the eastern world, and
exhibits, under the fifth and sixth trumpets,
the infliction of the woes by which the eastern
empire was destroyed.
The lights of the imperial firmament had
been obscured ; and amid the gloom that pre-
vailed,-symbolizing the confusion into which
STRL-CTC'RE OF THE APOCALYPSE. 33
all things had been brought by the destruction
of cstablisherl order and government,-John
heard the voice of an angel flying in mid-
heaven. Three times did that awful voice de-
nounce \\'Oe against the inhabiters of the earth.
After what had already taken place, this is
an unexpectecl as well as awful announcement.
One would ham thought that the angel of
\YOe had already emptied his worst vial,-that
nothing more fearful could he inflict than
that which he had already inflicted. But no.
The calamities that were yet to fall on the
world would obliterate the recollection of
those that bad already overtaken it. Three
awful judgments were approaching. ' The his-
tory of the world from the beginning is made
up of but a succession of woes; but in the
<lark retrospect of the past eighteen centuries
we can discern three calamities of surpassing
magnitude, so fearfully dismal, that otl~ers lose
their blackness when placed by their side,-
three woes towering above all others which
during that period have overtaken the miser-
able race of man. These were tho burden of
c
THE SEVEXTH n.u..
the angel which John now saw flying through
the midst of heaven, saying with a loud voice\
\Voe, woe, woe ! The first woe was to happen
under the fifth trumpet; the second under the
sixth trumpet ; and the third and last under
the seventh trumpet, which comprehends the
judgments of the seven vials.
Leaving, then, the western world, which Pro-
vidence, by a series of tremendous dispensa-
tions, had made empty and void, in order that
a more terrible enemy than that which had
just been struck down might be suffered to lift
up himself, to be destroyed in his turn, the
scene changes to the East. Immediately the
scenery becomes eastern. So long as the \Vest
was the stage of the Apocalyptic drama, the
scenery was of an occidental character,-
storms of hail, and burning mountains. Now
the symbols become oriental. The fifth angel
sounds. The bottomless pit is opened ; and
forthwith there issues from it a smoke so dense
that, as it rolls its murky folds onward, it dark-
ens the air, and inflicts blight upon the earth,-
the symbol of that system of imposture which,
STRUCTURE OF THE APOCALYPSE. ... -
t.hJ
arising in Arabia, overspread so large a por-
tion of the world. In the Bible, error is dark~
ness, truth is light. Along with the smoke
there came locusts from the pit, which, for tho
space of five months, tormented men with their
stings,-the Saracens, by whose arms the reli-
gion of Mahomet was propagated, and their
dominion extended from the banks of the Indus
to the base of the Pyrenees, and whose career
of conquest lasted for five symbolical months,-
an hundred and fifty years.
The scene of the sixth trumpet, or second
woe trumpet, is the banks of the Euphrates.
On its sounding, the four angels which were
bound in that river were loosed. The term for
which they had been prepared was an hour,
and a day, and a month, and a year. Their num-
bers were almost incredible,-two hundred
thousand thousand. Their equipments and
appearance were of a truly martial order. " I
saw the horses in the vision, and them that sat
on them, having breastplates of fire, and of ja-
cinth, and brimstone ; and the heads of tho
horses were as the heads of lions, and out of
36 TIIE SEYE:\"TII YL-\L.
their mouths issued fire, and smoke, and brim-
stone. Their tails were like unto serpents,
and had heads, and with them they do hurt."
Their commission was to slay the third part of
men. Of the correctness of the interpretation
which applies this symbol to the Turks, it is
scarce possible to entertain a doubt. Did our
time allow, we could show that the event ful-
filled the prediction in all its particulars. At
the time referred to in the prophecy, this
people, who had come originally from Scythia,
were divided into four clans or sultanies, all of
whom were located in the neighbourhood of
the Euphrates. They were at length let loose,
to desolate Asia with their arms, and that part
of it particularly which was the seat of the
eastern empire. Their troops consisted main-
ly of cavalry, and their mode of warfare was
new, artillery being now for the first time em-
ployed ; both of which particulars are not ob-
scurely hinted at in the prophecy. They con-
tinued a conquering power for three hundred
and ninety-one years, which, putting a day for
a year, gives the predicted term of " an hour,
'
STRCCTVRE OF THE APOC~~LYPSE. 37
and a day, and a month, and a year." Their
peculiar vocation or mission was, " to slay the
third part of men." It was against the cor-
rupt and idolatrous Christians of the eastern
empire that the Turks were sent ; and they
were charged to inflict a fuller measure of ven-
geance than their predecessors the Saracens
had done. The latter were sent to inflict chas-
tisement, if so be those on whom it fell would
repent ; but not repenting, the Turks were
commissioned to destroy them. To the one
it was commanded that they should not hurt
the grass of the earth, neither any green thing,
neither any tree ; and accordingly the con-
quests of' the Saracens "·ere comparati,·ely
bloodless. The fields were as green, the palm
trees as flourishing, behind their army, as in
adYance of it. But the longer the judgments
of God are continued, if they prove ineffectual,
they grow the more severe. Accordingly, the
commission given to the Euphratean horsemen
was, to slay those whom the locusts had power
only to sting ; and the work assigned them
they executed. During their career of conquest,
:38. TJIE SEYE::\TII VIAL.
they committed an incredible number ofslaugh-
ters, and inflicted hitherto unheard-of miseries.
All the provinces of the eastern empire they
subjugated and occupied,-Egypt, Greece, Pa-
lestine, Syria, Asia Minor. At last they crossed
the Hellespont, drew their armies around Con-
stantinople, besieged and took it; and thus the
empire of the Cresars came to an utter end.
\Ve hase now come to that point in the
Apocalyptic history where we design to begin
our fuller, yet very imperfect, exposition. But
in order that we may include in one view the
whole order and }Jlan of the Apocalypse, we
8hall continue to its close our brief narrative
of its eYcnts. A few moments will suffice. So far
the administration ofChristhad been successful.
Not in vain ha<l He sat down on the right hand
of God. In the exercise of his power, one
enemy had been overthrown after another,-
Rome pagan in the opening of the seals, and
Rome Christian in the sounding of the trum-
rcts. \Vas the stage then clear? and had
the hour now come when the kingdom of Christ,
in all its uniYersality and glory, was to be set
STRt.:CTl'RE OF TUE ,\POCALYPSE. 39
up 1 The time was not yet. Another chance,
so to speak, was to be given to Satan. All his
attempts hitherto had been abortive. He had
seen the labours of long ages swept. away by
the seals and the trumpets : another cycle of
centuries was to be given him, that he might
1lo his very utmost to render frustrate the
grand design of Christ's mediation. The west-
ern world was to be allotted to him as a field
of operation, and twelrn hundred years were
to be allowed him to mature his plans,-time
enough, and room enough, surely. According-
ly, putting his ingenuity and malignity to the
stretch, he now brings forth his masterpiece,
-even Popery, the most finished system of im-
posture, the most complete embodiment of Sa-
tanic malice and cunning, and the most skil-
fully organized plan of opposition to the cause
of God, which the world ever saw. This is the
grand subject which is now introduced on the
Apocalyptic scene.
The progress of the grand symbolic drama
is r..rrested, till, in a subsidiary vision, John has
a history given him of the rise, the character,
40 THE SEYEl\TH \'lAL.
and the reign of Antichrist, and the sufferings
endured by the Church during the period of hi.;;
dqmination. The lesser is marked off from the
greater vision by its symbols, whieh arc of a
completely different sort,-by its subject, which
is not the administrative acts of Christ, but the
crimes and successes of his encmy,-and by its
retrogression in point of time. The great Apo-
calyptic vision had advanced to the end of the
fifteenth century, when, at the sounding of the
sixth trumpet, the Greek empire was destroyed;
but the vision now exhibited to John recedes
to the middle of the fifth century, when the
Roman empire in the "'est was overthrown
by t.he judgment of the fourth trumpet. The
events which occurred in the 'Vest during thi.~
interval,-that is, from the middle of the fifth
to the close of the fifteenth century,-form the
subject of this vision. The fourth trumpet had
taken out of the way the "let" which for :;:o
long a time had prevented the rise of "THE
1\IA~ OF Sr:s-." The obstruction being remov-
.ed, he arose ; and now, at the beginning of
the ;;;ixtccnth century. he stood fully revealed,-
STRUCTURE OF THE APOCALYPSE. 4 l
reaching the zenith of his pO\rnr about the time
that the sixth trumpet consummated the ruin
of the eastern empire. This was the la~t
enemy who was to arise to oppose the erection
of Christ's kingdom, und whom Christ, in the
exercise of his great power, was to destroy, ns
he had done others. Accordingly, at this mo-
ment the seventh trumpet is sounded, and
seven angels, having the seven last plagues, ap-
pear upon the scene. Yial after vial is poured
out upon the Papacy, and each successive shock
helps ·onward the consummation of its awful
doom. The seventh and last is poured out ;
and "a great voice out of the temple of heaven,
from the throne," announces, "It is done:" the
grand object of Christ's administration has bc<:>:t
accomplished. And while the utter and irre-
trievable ruin of mystic Babylon is brought vi-
vidly before us by the symbol of the company
who stand afar off weeping and wailing, "And
saying, Alas ! alas! that great city, that was
clothed in fine linen, and purple, and scarlet,
and decked with gold, and pi-ecious stones, and
pearls! For in enc hom so grout riches is come
-!-~ THE SEYE~TH YIAL.
to nought. And every shipmaster, and all tho
company in ships, and sailors, and as many as
tm<lc hy sea, stood afar off. And cried, when
they saw the smoke of her burning, saying,
\Vlrnt city is like unto this great city ! And
they cast dust on their heads, and cried, weep-
ing and wailing, saying, Alas ! alas ! that
great city, wherein were made rich all that
had ships in the sea, by reason of her costli-
ness! for in one hour is she made desolate:"
the immediate erection of Christ's kingdom is
no less vividly presented to us by the symbol of
that other company, who hail with shouts of
joy and praise the near advent of some long
expected and thrice blessed event. "And I
heard as it were the voice of a great multitude,
and as the voice of many waters, and as the
Yoice of mighty thunderings, saying, Alleluia !
for the Lord God Omnipotent reigneth. Let
us be glad and rejoice, and give honour to Him:
for the marriage of the Lamb is come, and his
'vife hath made herself ready."
Let us here pause. Read in the light of the
' Apocalypse what a sublime scheme is Provi-
STRt:CTL"RE OF THE APOCALYPSE. 43
llence ! How vast, yet simple, its plan! How
complicated, yet harmonious, its movements !
\Vhat an infinite variety of parts, yet what
unity of action ! How great the apparent risk
of missing the end, yet with what completeness
and certainty is the end attained ! How amaz-
ing the regularity and exactness with which its
great cycles are performed, so that no enemy is
ever permitted to rise higher, or exist a mo-
ment longer, than infinite wisdom has ordain-
ed. And then, how surpassingly grand are its
results ! Let us lift up our eyes, and contem-
plate a scheme on which the power, wisdom,
and goodness of God are so gloriously inscribed ;
and let us, with the Church, ascribe blessing,
and honour, and glory, and power, unto the
Lamb, by whom it is administered. It is but a
troubled and gloomy light at the best, which
history sheds upon the course of this world's
affairs. If we look back upon the time which
has elapsed since the ascension of Christ with
this help only, we are altogether unable to dis-
cover anything like order or progression among
the events which fill up the period. Ono war
44 THE SEVENTH n.\L.
has been ended only that another might be com-
menced. One empire has been overthrown, for
no end, apparently, but that another, not Jes;;
hostile to the liberties and the religion of the
world, might take the place of its predecessor.
In vain we question history, what advantage or
profit has the world reaped from the calamities
it has endured, and the revolutions and changes
it has undergone ~ It can tell us of nothing
worthy of being set off against so great an
amount of suffering. It exhibits the world
moving on through ages of barbarism and
bloodshed, yet never approximating an era of
repose; and, for anything it can confidently
affirm to the contrary, the world may have an-
other eighteen hundred years of wars and con-
vulsions, of secular and spiritual thraldom, be-
fore it, and even then be no better than it is at
this hour. 'Ve begin to _lose hope, and allow
our despair to drive us to the conclusion, that
its present most miserable state can be ended
no otherwise than by its annihilation. But
when we avail ourselws of the aid of the Apo-
.calypse, instantly a great light is shed upon the
STRUCTL'RE OF THE APOCALYPSE. 45
scene. \Ve can discover the beautiful order
and rapid progression of events. \Ve can as-
sign to every act in the long series its place ;
and can tell the special end it was designed to
accomplish ; and can measure the degree in
which it contributed to the success of the
whole. \Ve can plainly see that, vast and com-
plicated as is the scheme, there is not an act,
from beginning to end, which has been in vain,
or which could have been left out ; and that,
long as the time is since the first seal was
opened,-and to the Church, which has been a
sufferer throughout the entire period almost,
it has seemed long indeed,-yet not a day, nay,
not an hour, has been lost. Constant, rapid,
irresistible, has been the march of events,-
onward, and ever onward. There has been no
delay,-no retrogression. There have been no
mistakes to rectify,-no unforeseen occurrences
to provide against,-no useless expenditure of
power,-no useless expenditure even of suffer-
ing. The heavens themselves present not a
spectacle of more perfect order, or of more har-
monious movements.
46 THE SEVENTH VIAL.
v1SlOX OF THE nllGHTY AXGEL.
VlSIONS of terror, symbolizing events yet more·
terrible, which were to desolate a wretched
world, had passed before the eye of John,-
tempests of hail mingled with blood, burning
mountains forcibly projected into the sea, thC'
obscuration and the fall of part of the heavenly
luminaries, the smoke from the pit by which
the sun and the air were darkened, and the
terrible ranks of the Euphratean horsemo11,
which overran the eastern world, and slew the
third part of men. But now, like the dawn
breaking upon a night of thick darkness, after
these symbols of woe comes a vision of trans-
cendent glory. " And I saw another mighty
angel come down from heaven, clothed with a
cloud ; and a rainbow was upon his head, and
VISION OF TUE MIGHTY ANGEL. 4i
his face was as it were the sun, and his feet as
pillars of fire."
" I saw another mighty angel." He is con-
trasted with others whom John had seen, but
whom he far excelled,-even the angels of the
trumpets. The point in which the contrast is
here made to lie is his power,-a "mighty
angel." The angels of the trumpets had had
great power over the earth : they had broken
in pieces the iron kingdom of Rome, both in
the "\Vest and in the East ; but that power was
not their own; it was derived from the "mighty
angel" who now stood before J olm. Yvho this
mighty angel was does not admit of doubt.
He was plainly the Church's King and the
world's King, our Lord Jesus Christ. Mr
Elliot, who has brought to the exposition of
the Apocalypse a rare erudition, both classic
and historic, great candour of mind, the most
exemplary patience of inquiry, and an admir-
able sobriety and sagacity of judgment, and
who, aided by these great qualities, has excel-
led all his predecessors in this field, girns it
as his opinion, that Christ here appears in a
48 Tirn SEYE::\Tll n.\L.
symbolic charc.cter, as the Angel of the RE-
FOIDL\ T!OX. To this opinion we demur. It
appears to us th:it it is liable to the objection
tlmt it confounds the Administrator with his
acts of a,dministration. In no other p:irt of
the Apocalypse is a person singly and by him-
self employed as a symbol to denote an event.
The opinion, moreover, appears untena,ble on
the ground of time. The vision is seen by
J olm, it is true, a,fter the sounding of the sixth
trumpet; but there is here an undoubted retro-
gression, inasmuch as the events included under
this Yision date their commencement from the
l"Oumling of the fourth trumpet, and, starting
with the rise of Antichrist, run on in symbolic
narrative till the sounding of the seventh trum-
pet, when Antichrist, having reached the sum-
mit of his power, begins to be brought down.
Now, seeing the vision of the "mighty angel"
occupies the foreground in that symbolic repre-
sentation which was made to Jolm of the trou-
bles of the twelYe hundred and sixty days, what
more natural than to conceive that this vision
was meant to prefigure the manifestation which
YISION OF THE )!IGHTY A~GEL. 49
Christ would make to the Church, of his power
and faithfulness as her King, both before the
commencement of these sad events, and dur-
ing their continuance ? Antichrist was to lay
claim to the sovereignty of the world, exa,ct
the honrnge of all who dwelt upon it, and deny,
to such as should withhold their worship, a,
spot where to rest while living, or sleep when
clead. How consolatory to the Church, in these·
circumstances, to reflect, that her Saviour lrnd
set his right foot on the sea, and his left on
the earth, in token of his being Lord of all,
and that he should yet assuredly wrest what
was his own out of the hand of the usurper !
She knew that while Antichrist was laying both
sea and land under tribute, and while both
were groaning under his oppressions and his
crimes, the " mighty angel" was standing over
him, ready to deal the blow, at the proper
time, by which he was to be destroyed. All
the appearances of Christ are suitable to the
dispensations He comes to usher in; and how
suitable his present appearance to the dispen-
sation about to commence,. we shall see when
D
30 nrn SEYE:-ITH YIAL.
we explain, which we now proceed to do brief-
ly, the particulars of the vision.
Power is tho attribute by which this angel i,;
mainly characterized. He is the Mighty One.
As God, He laid the foundations of the earth;
and the hea\·ens are the workmanship of his
hands. As Mediator, He sits on the right hand
of power in the heavens, and has all power in
earth and hea,·en committed to Him. There i;;
not a being in tho world of mind, nor an ele-
ment in the world of matter, OYer which He
does not exercise control. The angels that ex-
cel in strength do his commandments through-
out every po,rt of his rnst dominions. Equally
supreme is his sovereignty over our lower worlfl.
The lights ofthe sky shine at his command; the
tempests of the air gather and burst at his bid-
1ling; the warns of the sea rise or are stilled at
his voice; the armies of earth are his; and, even
when acting against Him, are in reality acting
for Him. It is His to give stability and glory to
thrones, or to overturn them; to crown hosts
with victory. or to break them in pieces ; anfl
He wills their success or defeat, according as
VISION OF THE )IIGHT\' ANGEL. 51
they subserve the great ends of his reign and
government. Greater still is his power, and
wider still is his dominion. E\•en the spirits of
the pit are not exempt from that tribute of
;;ervice under which He lays the whole of crea-
tion. He displays his power over them, by re-
straining, directing, and overruling them ; so
that, with intentions the most opposite to his,
they assist in the accomplishment of his ever-
lasting and holy purposes. How many displays
has He given of his great power in " the an-
cientdays,"-in" the generations of old." These
the Church has commemorated in he1· songs.
He it was, when she ~lwelt in the house of
bondage, who "cut Rahab, and wounded the
dragon." He it was, when she was in captivity,
who "sent to Babylon," and "brought down all
their nobles." But among all the great acts
which have marked the course of his adminis-
tration, there is not one equal to that which He
rnservcd for the last. This shall eclipse all
that went before it. Egypt and Dabylon were
great oppressors;) .Rome pagan, in her latter
days, was a greater oppressor than either; and
5')
.~ THE SEVENTH VIAL•
the deliverance of the Church from their yoke
was a signal mercy ; but when di<l there arise
an enemy like Antichrist ? 'Vhen before had
the universe beheld such a fearful combination
of policy and power, of hypocrisy and craft, of
impiety and blasphemy ?-an enemy who spake
great words against the :Most ·High, and did
wear out the saints of the Most High, and
thought to change times and laws ; who waxed
great, even to the host of heaven ; nnd did
cast down some of the host and of the stars to
the ground, and stamped upon them. And as
the world never before beheld so formidable an
enemy, so never before did it witness so tre-
mendous an overthrow,-nn overthrow so sig-
nal, unexpected, and terrible, that the whole
earth shall he::ir of it, and glorify the power
nnd the holiness of Him who has inflicted it.
" Clothed with a cloud." This forms a beau-
tiful connection between his appe.'.lrances to the
Church of the Old Testa.nwnt, and the appear-
ance he now made to tlie Church of the new
dispensation, represented by John. Veiled in a
~loud, He marched before his people through the
VISION OF THE MIGHTY ANGEL. ;)3
wilderness. 'Vhen He descended on Sinai to
receive the homage of that nation whose Sove-
reign he condescended to become, he said, " Lo !
I come unto thee in a thick cloud." When
intimating that He would be present in his
Church, ho said that he would dwell in the
" thick darkness." 'Vas that " darkness'' sym-
bolic ? There can be little question that it
was. It shadowed forth the nature of this dis-
pensation, which was one of type and shadow ;
revealing, yet obscurely, the work of Christ
and the way of salvation. So the clouds that
veiled the form of the " mighty angel" may be
held as symbolizing the character of the dis-
pensation now to commence,-a period of judg-
ment to the world, and of trial to the Church.
As at a former period of judgment, so now,
"He made darkness his secret place; his-paYi-
lion round about Him were dark waters and
thick 1clouds of the skies." How often should
the Church, during this part of Christ's admi-
nistration,-of all others the most mysterious,
-have occasion to say, "Thy way is in the
sea, and thy path in the great waters, and thy
•
54 TIIE SE\"EXTIJ \"J.\L.
footsteps are not known." "Clouds and dark-
ness are round about Thee."
" And a rainbow was upon his head." "\Vith
regard to this symbol, since the era of the Flood
it has been used as the sign of a covenant.
This is its consecrated use. After the waters
had assuaged, and the mountains and valleys
had again looked forth, God said, "I do set my
bow in the cloud, ancl it shall be for a token
of a covenant between me and the earth," that
" the waters shaJl no more become a flood to
clestroy the earth." In the dark cloud now
gathering above the Church, Goel had set his
bow,-the token of the covenant between Him
and tho Church, that the waters of wrath which
were now to rol'l over the world shoulcl not be-
come a flood to destroy the Church. Under
the shadow of that cloud, and in sight of those
desolating torrents that were to fall from it,
and to grow into a deluge that should sweep
away empires and dynasties, the Church, undis-
mayed, fixing her eye upon the sign of tho
covenant, might sing, " God is our refuge and
1:;trength,-a very present help in trouble: there·
YISIO.'.'\ OF THE )l!GIITY A.'.'\CEL. [)[)
fore will we not fear, though the earth be re-
mornd, and though the mountains be carried
into the midst of the sea." This sign, display-
ed on the bosom of the cloud, was as if God
had said to her, Fear 12ot, little flock. In
awful judgment am I come forth against the
world; but the arm now stretched forth against
it to destroy it is around thee, to protect thee.
T!10ugh I should make a full end of all nations,
J will not make a full end of thee.
"His face was as it were the sun." Through-
out the whole of that dark night, whose twilight
shadows were already falling, his face was to be
hidden to the world, but his own should see it,
and be refreshed and cheered thereby. The
Church was to dwell in light, while the world
should be shrouded in darkness. 'Vhen the
Church passed through the Red Sea, the pillar
of cloud that followed her was a pillar of light
to her, but of darkness to the Egyptians. That
pillar was to take its st:md once more between
the sealed Church and the antichristian world,
and to perform its functions, as of old, in shed-
ding light upon the one and darkness upon the
56 THE SE\'ENTH YIAL.
other. The glory of Christ was seen, and his
love enjoyed, even during the night of the
Papacy, by his chosen witnesses. Though hid-
den from the world, yet not from Christ, some
dwelt in the inaccessible cliffs, or in the deep
valleys of Piedmont, covered by the friendly
shadows of the overhanging mountains ; others
retired to the remote and uninhabitable wilds
of the Hebrides; others found shelter in tho
convents of England and Germany; others lay
hid in the caverns of Bohemia. But wherever
their retreat, the "\Vord of God lay open be-
fore them; and through its instrnmentality they
held communion with Christ. Thus the pro-
mise was fulfilled, as it has often been in days
of darkness to the world,-" But unto you tlwt
fear my name shall the Sun of Righteousness
arise, with healing in his wings."
"And his feet as pillars of fire." The "steps"
of God are uniformly employed in the Old Tes-
tament to denote his dispensations of provi-
dence. Such is the undoubted meaning of the
symbol here. It implies that the providential
p1:ocedure of Christ, during the period now
VISIOX OF THE l\IIGHTY ANGEL. 5 i
commencing, should combine, in no ordinary
degree, power, glory, and terror. His feet
were as pillars of firc,-strong to carry fonrnrd
his work, ruaugre all opposition, and to fulfil
his own purposes amid the ruin of the plans
and purposes of all others. In the government
of the world, as in its creation, He fainteth
not, neither is weary. On He goes, conquer-
ing and treading into the dust all his enemies.
His feet were as pillars of jfre. Fire scorches
and burns up: so were the judgments now to
be introduced. They were in due time to
scorch and burn up the Papacy, and to refine
and purify his Church. She should be safe
while the e:trth 'rns trembling and its pillars
giving way beneath tho feet of this mighty
angel. She should be built up by the same
events which should break in pieces the world
and its inh:tbitants.
TIIE SEYE:\Tll YIAL.
THE LITTLE BOO!\.
IK the hand of this mighty and glo~·ious angel
was a little book open. 'Ve cannot think that
the interpretation of the symbol which l\Ir
Elliot, Dr Keith, and others have given, is the
true one, viz. that it represents an open Bible,
first given to the world at the Reformation.
It is contrary to every canon of interpretation
of the Apocalyptic symbols, to say that a book
is the symbol of a boo!.:. Nor will this idea
consist with the sequel. John was command-
ed to take tho book out of the angel's hand,
and eat it. "'hen he had done so, he found
it sweet in the mouth, but bitter in the belly.
vVe cannot sec the propriety of applying this
to the publication of the Scriptures at the Re-
fqrmation. No sooner had John digested the
THE LITTLE BOOK. 59
book, than he received a commission to pro-
phesy again. This seems to connect the little
book with the _
predictions that follow, and to
lay a ground for the supposition that these
predictions formed the little book. It was
pleasant to know the eyents contained in this
book, but painful to announce them to the
Church, relating as they did to her long pro-
phesying in sackcloth, and to the arduous con-
flict she should be called to wage with the dra-
gon. 'Ve are persuaded that the opinion held
concerning the little book by Mede, in which he
was followed by Vitringa, and Sir Isaac Newton,
and others, is the sound one. That opinion is
l'mbstantially what we have stated. The little
book naturally suggests a larger book, with
which it is contrasted. Had it symbolized the
Bible, it would have been described simply as
a boo!.:. But the little book (f31{31'.a~•o1ov) in
the angel's hand is obviously contrasted with
the Lamb's book (f31,8r.1ov). It is representeci
with great propriety as a little book, because
the space of time comprehended in it is much
shorter than that included in the other. The
60 THE SEl'E:S-TH VIAL.
Lamb's book comprehends the whole perio<l
from tho opening of the first seal till the re-
turn of Christ to judgment. The little book
comprehends only twelve hundred and sixty
years ; or, to come nearer the truth, it com-
prehends only that part of these years which
includes the rise and reign of Antichrist; for
it leaves off his history when his overthrow
commences,-the point where the sealed roll
takes it up, to carl'y it on under the symbol of
the vials. The prophecy of the little book is
contained, we apprehend, in the eleventh,
twelfth, and thirteenth chapters. 'Yithout
this little book the sequel of the Apocalypse
would scarce have been intelligible; for then
we should have seen the third woe inflicted,
without having had the object on whom that
woe fell described. " re have already said,
that when the western empire was destroyed
n.t the sounding ofthe fourth trumpet, the scene
of judgment was transferred to the eastern
world. The fifth trumpet, or first woe trum-
pet, was sounded, introducing the plague of the
loc;usts, or Saracens. The sixth trumpet, or
THE LITTLE BOOK. 61
second woe trumpet, was next sounded, intro-
ducing the plague of the horsemen, or Turks, by
whom the eastern empire was destroyed. But
during the infliction of these woes in the East,
Popery was gradually rising in the vVe:;;t. On
IT the third woe was now to be inflicted ; there-
fore is was necessary to retrograde in the sym-
bolic narrative, in order to bring up the history
of affairs in the West from the time the west-
ern empire had been overthrown. This the
little book does. It exhibits the rise of Anti-
christ, and his gradual ascent to universal do-
nmuon. Once, again, and a third time, are we
told the story of that eventful period: first, in
the witnesses who prophesy in sackcloth, are
slain, and rise again ; next, in the woman
clothed with the sun, persecuted by a dragon,
and obliged to flee into the wilderness ; and
yet again, in the history of the beast of the
sea and the beast of the earth ; which last
grew to such a height of power, and waxed so
self-willed and imperious, that he would per-
mit no one to buy or sell who did not wear his
mark in his forehead or in his right hand.
6.2 THE SEYE~TH VIAL.
Thus the prophecy is thrice given, and each
time under different imagery; because God
had established the thing, and would surely
1)1-ing it to pass; and also, that opportunity
might be given minutely to paint Antichrist
in his character and actings, in order that the
Church might know him when he appeared.
Such, then, is the subject of the little book.
It supplies the history of some most important
events which took place during the sounding
of the fifth and sixth trumpets,-that is, from
the close of the fifth to the beginning of tho
sixteenth century,-and the knowledge of
which is essential to the right understanding
of the closing acts in the great Apocalyptic
drama. The m::tin objection of Mr Elliot to
this interpretation is, tha,t lmd the little book
been prophetical, it would lrnve been represent-
ed as closed, like the Lamb's book, a,nd open-
ed gradua,lly a,s the other was. '\Ve do not
think that there is much force in this. The
true answer to it we apprehend to be, that the
main idea set forth in the unrolling of the
se::tled book was, not that its contents related
THE LITTLE BOOK. 63
to the future, but that the whole administra-
tion of Providence was in the hands of Christ.
The act of opening the seals exhibits Christ,
not as a prophet, but as He to whom it be-
longs to execute the purposes of God. It was
unnecessary to exhibit symbolically this truth
over again; and therefore the little book is
represented as open, just as the roll given to
Ezekiel by the river Chebar, from which this
part of the imagery of the Apocalypse is un-
doubtedly taken, was spread before him, al-
though it contained the predictions he was to
deliver to the house of Israel, and thus related
to the future. 'Vhether scaled or open, the
disclosure of its contents could proceed only
from Him who reveals secret things to his ser-
vants.
"He set his right foot upon the sea, and his
left foot on the earth." A striking representa-
tion this of his universal dominion as Mediator.
Mr Elliot, and others, who make this angel
the symbol of the Reformation,-a most ano-
mulous interpretation, we cannot help think-
ing,-intcrprct this sea. on which the right foot
THE SEVENTH YI.\L.
of the angel rested, as meaning ]3ritain, and
those maritime parts of the Continent-Hol-
land, Denmark, Sweden-where the influence
of the Reformation was most felt ; and the
eartli, on which the angel placed his left foot, as
denoting the more inland parts of the Conti·
ncnt, where the effects of the Reformation
were less permanent. But this is to violate a
most imperative bw in symbolic interpretation,
according to which the sea cannot mean the
sea, but something else ; nor the earth the
earth, but some other thing. Having framed
a symbolic alphabet, we must adhere to it
throughout, and not give to the same charac-
ter one meaning in one passage, and another
meaning in another passage. In this way we
might make anything of the Apocalypse, or
rather, we should make nothing of it. The sea
is the symbol of nations, particularly in a state
of excitement, and th,~r0fore may be here taken
to denote secubr s·•ciety. The earth is so-
ciety in its morJ i:-e'.;tle.l state; but being tlrn.t
out of which the Papacy arose, it is sometimes
p1~t elliptically to denote the Papacy, an(l
THE LITTLE BOOK. 6.J
may be here taken to mean ecclesiastical so-
ciety. As the world is composed of sea and
dry land, so society is made up of secular and
ecclesiastical. Christ is here seen standing on
both,-on the sea and the earth of the anti-
christian system,-denoting his power over
both ciYil and ecclesiastical society. He had
his foot on the natiom1, and he had it planted,
too, on Antichrist; and notwithstanding that
for a long period he appeared to practise and
prosper against God, Christ was all the while
subserving his own purposes by him; and when
these were accomplished, he trod him into the
dust.
" And cried with a loud voice, as when a lion
roareth." By the voice of Christ is meant the
dispensations of his providence. By these He
speaks to the world. His voice was loud, ma-
jestic, terrible, as when a lion roareth. The
world resounded and shook, as does the wil-
derness when the lion roars; and its tribes be-
came mute with terror. This denotes the aw-
ful character of those events He was now to
introduce, and by which He was to rclmke the
Ii:
GG THE 81.:\'EXTI,I YIAL.
nations for their sin, and proclaim his power
and justice. "And when he had cried, seven
thunders uttered their voices,"-(A1 &'lrrn {3govrai),
the seven thunders, not simply seven thunders.
Various, and in some cases very extraordinary,
interpretations have been given of this symbol.
The "seven thunders," says Vitringa, mean the
"seven crusades;" and John was commanded,
he tells us, to pass over in silence what they
uttered, because "Nee <ligmc erant qure pro-
lixius exponerentur." The explanation of Mr
Elliot is scarcely more satisfactory to our mind.
These seven thunders symbolize, according to
him, the excommunications which the Pope
launched against the reformers ; and he rests
not a little stress upon the fact, as a vindica-
tion of his theory, that the papal bulls, in com-
mon phrase, are denominated tlmnders, and
emanate from the seven hills. The fault of this
exposition appears to us to lie in its being too
mgemous. Mr Elliot builds also a good deal
upon the circumstance of the definite article
being employed,-" tl1e seven thunders." "-e
submit that this bears with much greater force
THE LITTLE BOOK. 67
against than for his theory. Had the papal
thunders been here symbolized, it is probable
that the definite article would have been omit-
ted, seeing they are never introduced before or
after in the Apocalypse. Besides, the rise of the
beast had not yet been shown ; and it is con-
trary to all propriety to introduce his thunders
or roarings before he himself had received ex-
istence. \Vhat, then, are we to understand by
the seven thunders, and the command given to
John to seal up what they uttered ? Let us
follow the leadings of the figure. The angel
speaks with a loud voice, as when a lion roareth ;
and the seven thunders are the re-echo of the
angel's voice. Similar in character to the ori-
ginal sound must he the reverberations. The
YOice denoted the awful events of the coming
dispensation, especially those that were to bring
about "the consummation;" and so must the
seven thunders which were awakened by that
voice. They relate, we are strongly persuaded,
to the plagues that were to constitute the third
woe,-the judgments by which the ruin of the
Papacy was to be accomplished. If so, they
GS THE SEVENTH VIAL.
are the same as the plagues of the seven vials,
with which they correspond in point of num-
ber ; and the words of the angel that follow
give ground to conclude that they correspond
with the vials in point of time also ; that, in
fact, both relate to the same events. 'Vhy,
then, was it said to John, " Seal up those
things which the seven thunders uttered, and
write them not ?" Obviously because the events
they announced were to be afterwards revealed
to him in symbol under the seventh trumpet.
They were sealed up now, because John had
first to be shown the rise and reign of that ter-
rible power on which the plagues which the
thunders announced were to be inflicted. It
would have violated the proprieties of the Apo-
calyptic drama to write the DOO::'ll before the
OBJECT of that doom had arisen. These dis-
closures were to be introduced at their proper
place in the Apocalypse, with this difference,
that whereas the thunders described,-most
probably without any figure or metaphor,-the
judgments by which Antichrist was to be over-
thrown, tho revelation afterwards made of
THE LlTTLE BOOK. 69
these things was given in symbolical language. If
this be the right interpretation,-which we are
persuaded it is,-then, although the things that
were uttered by the seven thunders were sealed
up at that time, they are now in course of be-
ing revealed. The days in which we live are
the days of the voice of the seventh angel; and
tho events of Providence are now publishing to
all men what it was unlawful then for the pen
of the apostle to write ; and when the hour of
Antichrist's overthrow shall have arrived, we
shall know more fully still what these seven
thunders uttered.
'iO 'fJIE SE\'EXTII VIAL.
THE OATH OF THE ANGEL.
THE grandeur of the vision is heightened by the
awfully solemn act which the august being, who
stood with one foot planted on the sea and the
other on the earth, now proceeded with great
impressiveness to perform. " And the angel
which I saw stand upon the earth and upon the
sea lifted up his hand to heaven, and sware by
Him that liveth for ever and ever, who created
heaven and the things that therein are, and the
earth and the things that therein arc, and the
sea and the things which are therein, that there
should be time no longer." Every one qualified
to consult the original will at once admit that
our translation does not give the precise im-
port of the angel's oath,-xeovo; oim':"r 'i6rc
11,-
literally, " The time shall not be yet." The
angel refers pbinly to the time when some
TUE 0.\TH OF THE ANGEL. 71
event, important in itself, and anxiously desired
and expected by John, as representative of the
Church, should happen, and of which the angel
had just spoken, and been answered by the
thunders which had disclosed the particulars
of that great event. \Vhen, then, shall it be ?
"llut," continues the angel, "in the days of the
mice of the seventh angel, when he shall begin
to sound, the mystery of God should be :finish-
ed, as He hath declared to his servants the
prophets." That it was some joyful event,
to the Church at least, whatever its aspect to
the world, is undoubted, from the term which
the angel employs when speaking about it,
-(WllJl'fAt<ti),-the same word which is em-
ployed to denote the preaching of the gospel.
It hacl been declared as good news. \Ve learn
farther from the angel's oath, that the event
had ere now been foretold. It had been de-
clared,-preached as good news,-to the pro-
phets. To which of the prophets ? Is there
any of them to whom we find a revelation made,
-a revelation on oath,-of the consummation,
or the finishing of some grand epoch in God's
72 THE SEVENTH VIAL.
government of the world? V{e find such a re-
velation made to Daniel, conveyed in terms
and accompanied with imagery so very nearly
identical with those of the vision before us, that
we can have no doubt the allusion is to that
prophet. In the last chapter of Daniel's pro-
phec~ we find a time oftrouble spoken of, "such
as never was since there was a nation, e'·en to
that same time." But Michael should stand np,
andDaniel's people should be delivered,-"every
one that should be found written in the book."
In the hearing of Daniel, one made enquiry at
"the man clothed in linen, which was upon the
waters of the river, How long shall it bo to the
end of these wonders? And I heard the man
clothed in linen, which was upon the waters of
the river, when he held up his right hand and
his left hand unto heaven, and sware by Him
that liveth for ever, that it shall be for a time,
times, an<l an half; and when He shall have
accomplished to scatter the power of the holy
people, all these things shall be finished." The
epoch, which was to bear a complex character,
in as much as it was to be a period of unex-
TiiE O.\TH OF THE Ai\GEL. 7~1
ampled trouble, and of deliverance equally un-
exampled, was then far distant : accordingly
Daniel was told, "the words are closed up and
sealed till the time of the end."
The vision of Daniel helps us to interpret
that of John. In the words we have quoted,
there is a reference made to a noted period in
the Apocalypse,-" a time, times, andan half,"
i.e. a year, two years, and half a year ; i. e.
twelve hundred and sixty prophetic days, or
years. The period, we say, is a strongly mark-
ed one in the Apocalypse, seeing it embraces
the reign of Antichrist. At the end of that
period all these wonders of judgment and de-
liverance are to happen. This enables us to ·
determine what is here meant by the mystery
of God, which shall be finished in the days of
the voice of the seventh angel. It also goes u.
great way to determine with certainty what the
things were which the seven thunders uttered,
but which John was forbidden to write. See-
ing we arc informed in Daniel that they were
to take place at the close of the twelve hundred
and sixty days, we infer that they were the
TUE SE\"ENTH VIAL.
se\•en last plagues, by which Antichrist was to
be slowly consumed, and at length suddenly and
fearfully destroyed. The history of the "little
book" begins after the sounding of the fourth
trumpet; from which period, speaking generally,
we date the rise of Antichrist. The oath of
the angel, touching the finishing of the mystery
of God in his destruction, bore that it should
not be yet. A full millennimn had to intervene,
-from the fifth to the sixteenth century : not
sooner should Antichrist reach his meridian.
But having attained the height of his power,
• the seventh angel should sound; and then, as
sure as God possessed almighty power and
eternrtl beiug, Antichrist should be destroyed.
There was a high propriety in the angel's ap-
peal to these two attributes of the Divine cha-
racter. No power less than that which made
the heavens and the earth could destroy so con-
solidated a system as the Papacy; and He only
that liveth for e,·er could carry on through suc-
cessive ages, that series of events by which Anti-
christ should eventually be brought down. Nor
":as the propriety less of terming this great
TUE OAT!l OF THE ANGEL.
,..._
I iJ
event the finishing of the mystery of God. vVe
know not how long God's providence over the
world, in its present state, shall last; but we
know this,-that the mystery of providence,-
that part of providence which, from the intrica-
cies and perplexities with which it has abound-
ed, has been a mystery to the wisest,-shall come
to a close when Antichrist falls. It is long since
it was revealed to Daniel that there should be
four grand epochs in the history of the world,
marked off by the rise and fall of four great
monarchies ; that these should be preparatory
to the kingdom of Christ ; and that as soon as
the fourth and last of these monarchies had
fallen, that kingdom should be set up. The fall
of the last monarchy was to form the comple-
tion of the scheme,-the winding up of the dra-
ma; and when finished, the admirable wisdom
with which its plan had been arranged sl10uld
be seen, and all the mystery in which, to lm-
man penetration, it had been shrouded during
its progress, should be removed. This long-
predicted and much-desired event should hap-
76 THE SE\'EXTH YIAL.
pen, John was assured by the angel on oath,
during the days of the rnice of the seventh
angel. Not longer was the patience of the
Church to be tried; and not longer should Sa-
tan be permitted, by the instrumentality of hifl
agents, to deceive and destroy the nations. The
seventh trumpet should sound the world's ju-
bilee,-the day of vengeance and the year of
the redeemed. The idea that it is the day of
judgment that is here announced is inadmis-
sible; but in respect that the scenes by which
the close of this part of God's providence shall
be signalized will be secon<l. in importance and
terror only to those scenes amid which time it-
self shall close, they are depicted by imager~·
taken from the last judgment. This period
will be a harbinger of the day of judgment,-in
reality a judgment-day to the world. Accord-
ingly, it is predicted, both in Daniel, and elsr-
where in the Apocalypse, that then the dead
shall be raised ; that is, those whom Anti-
christ has slain shall stand up,-not in their
persons, but in their cause,-that t!teir inno-
THE OATH OF THE ANGEL. 77
cenco may be published, and his iniquity pro-
claimed, before ho is cast into the lake that
burns with fire and brimestone.
The vision ends with an intimation to John
to receive the book from the angel, and eat it.
He did so; "and it was in my mouth sweet as
honey; and as soon as I lmd eaten it, my belly
was bitter." To eat the book denoted the ex-
ercise of his mind respecting it. To understand
a matter at once important and profound is
pleasant,-sweet as honey ; but, alas ! the
book contained heavy tidings to the Church :
it announced a period of twelve hundred and
sixty years of sorrow to her, and of triumph to
her foes: "and as soon as I had eaten (under-
stood) it, my belly was bitter." Once more was
tho voice of prophecy to be heard in the world
before it should become silent for ever. "Thou
must prophecy again before many peoples, and
nations, and tongues, and kings." John was
tho last of the prophets, and this was the last
prophecy. It respected the Church's last ene-
my ; and as soon as this prediction should
be published, the volume of prophecy would be
78 TIIE SEYE.'\Tll YIAL.
closed. J 01111 was not in person to publish these
.':!ayings to the world. He was a prisoner in
Patmos, kept there by the tyrant who now go-
ycrned the world. But though he had been
permitted tlrnt very day to leave the shores of
the lonely isle, he was too full of years and suf-
ferings to journey through the countries, and
proclaim what was now made known to him.
Ile was soon by death to rejoin in glory that
Lord whose chosen and best beloved companion
he had been during his humiliation on earth.
But being inspired to write the visions of Pat-
mos, he is prophesying to this hour before
peoples and nations. And by the Church he
has ever been held to be one of the greatest of
those prophets which, though dead, yet speak
unto her.
How infallibly certain is it that Popery shall
Le brought down ! God has not only promised,
not only prophesied, but sworn, to overthrow it.
flt the commencement of that grand scheme of
Providence which embraces the four monar-
ehies, the angel who stands upon the sea and
t11e earth lifted up his hand to heaven, ancl
TUE O.\.TH OF THE ANGEL. 7!1
sware by Him that liveth for ever and eyer,
that after a. time, times, and an half, it should
come to an encl. At the commencement of the
fourth and last monarchy, the same oath was re-
peated in the same solemn manner. The oath of
the angel must be fulfilled, oppose it whoso list.
Nor is God slack concerning his oath. Our im-
patience often provokes us to think that tho vi-
sion tarries,-that events pass slowly over the
stage of time. "\Ve measure the duration they
occupy by our own little span. vVe are like one
viewing the motions of the great bodies of the
firm:iment at the distance of the earth, to whom
they seem to creep slowly across the sky, whiist,
wore he nearer, he would be dazzled by the ra-
pidity and irresistible force with which the.''
move onward. So would we judge of the events
of Providence, were we to measure their pro-
gress by the standard here set up by the angel,
-God's eternity. Twelve hundred and sixty
prophetic days have.been allotted to Antichrist.
To that term not a <lay, not an hour, shall be
added. \Vhen it expires his knell will be rung,
and a uniyerse shall shout over his fall.
80 THE SE\"EJ\Tll VIAL.
THE :MEASlJillNG OF THI~ TE:UPLE.
JoH~ having digested' the contents of the book,
n.ntl received the commail(l again to prophesy,
now addresses himself to his task. Like Eze-
kiel, who, after he had eaten the open roll, and
had been comnunded to prophesy to the house
of Israel, began to do so by signs, John enters
1111 his prophetic mission by the exhibition of
1>igns. He measures the temple and its wor-
shippers,-an act which bears on the face of it
that a great apostacy among the members of
the visible Church was now to take place, of'
which the measuring of the temple was at once
the preparation and the prefliction. Chap. xi.
1, "And there was given me a recd like unto a
rod: and the angel stood, saying, Rise, and
1!1easure the temple of God, and the altar, and
THE )1EASURING OF THE TE~lPLE. 81
them that worship therein." "Thr.re was given
me a reed" (xaA.ar.1.0>)· The xaA.aµo, or reed
was used in three ways among the J ews,-as a
walking-staff, as a measuring rod, and as a pen.
Its size varied according to its_ use. To show
in which of these senses the xaA.a,1.t.o' or reed is
here to be taken, it is added, that it was "like
unto a rod." It was a measuring reed, then,
that was now given to John. "And the angel
stood, saying, Rise and measure the temple of
God, and the altar, and them that worship
therein. But the court which is without the
temple leave out, and measure it not." Not to
the literal temple on Zion, obviously, was John
to apply his measuring rod, for that "holy and
beautiful house" where his fathers worshipped,
long before the period referred to in this vision,
was to be levelled with the ground, and the Ro-
man ploughshare drawn over it, if, indeed, it
had not been so already. It is the Christian
Church that is here meant, described by ima-
gery borrowed from the hill of Zion. As there
is so obvious a reference here to the plan and
arrangements of the ancient ' Jewish temple, it
p
82 TUE SE\.ENTII VIAL.
becomes necessary, in order to the clear appre-
hension of what John now did, and the precise
significancy of the act, to describe briefly the
arrangements of the ancient temple. The sa-
cred buildings occupied the summit of the hill.
In the centre was a noble and spacious edifice,
divided into two chambers. This formed strict-
ly the temple. The innermost chamber was
the holy of holies: it contained the ark of th0
covenant, overslrndowed by the cherubim, be-
tween whom dwelt the cloud of glory,-the
symbol of Jehovah's presence. Into this awful
chamber there entered no one save the high
priest, and even he only once in the year. The
second or outer chamber was named the sanc-
tuary, and contained the altar of burnt-offer-
ing and the altar of incense. The priests only,
and such of the people as had sacrifices to offer,
were permitted to enter here. Then running
round the temple, and immediately adjoining it,
was the inner court, the appointed place of as-
sembling for the Israelites. Beyond the court
of the Israelites was another,-the ·outer court;
a spacious area, which covered the entire sum-
THE MEASliRlNG OF THE TEMPLE. 83
mit of the mount, and was designed for the ac-
commodation of proselytes to the Jewish reli-
gion, and hence was termed sometimes the
court of the proselytes.
Such were the arrangements of the Jewish
temple, which evidently formed the model of
that which stood before John in the Apocalyp-
tic visions. There was first the sacred edifice,
consisting of two chambers ; then, running
round it, in an oblong form, was the court of
the Israelites ; and running round that again,
was the court of the Gentiles. John was com-
manded to measure the temple of God, and the
altar, and them that worship therein. It is
not said whether the court of the Israelites was
to be included or left out in the measurements
of John. Mr Elliot thinks it was included;
for this reason, that John was commanded to
measure the "altar, and them that worship
therein ;,, and he believes this implies the altar
court, by which we understand him to mean
what is commonly termed the inner court. It
does not necessarily mean this; and we think
a more natural interpretation of this clause is,
THE SEVENTH VIAI,.
that it refers to the chamber in which the
altar stood, and to those who worshipped in
that chamber, consisting of the priests, and of
those of the people who had sacrifices and offer-
ings to present. \Ve are of opinion, therefore,
that the whole area outside the temple-build-
ing was left out ; the court where the ordinary
worshippers assembled, as well as the more
spacious court of the Gentiles. This last, it is
certain, was left out; for it is particularly com-
manded to be so, and a reason assigned : " But
the court which i:s without the temple leave
out, and measure it not; for it is given unto
the Gentiles; and the holy city shall they tread
under foot forty and two months." Nothing, in
our view, was included but the temple, and those
who worshipped beside the altar within the first
vail. But it is of importance to inquire what
the action symbolized. Sometimes the measur-
ing rod is employed to denote construction, as
in the case of Ezekiel (clrnp. xi. 3 et seq.), where
the angel uses his measuring reed to mete out
the proportions of a new temple to be erected.
~ometimes it is the symbol of destruction. In
THE ;\IEASURING OF THE TEi\IPJ.E. 8,i
2 Kings, xxi. 13, and elsmYliere, it is so used;
a part was to be preserrnd, and a part was to
be destroyed. It is plain that here the mea-
suring reed is used in a sense somewhat analo-
gous to its last-mentioned meaning. That it
was not used for the purpose of construction,
as Mr Elliot supposes, is very evident ; for the
temple measured was already built, and stand-
ing before John : but it was used for the pur-
pose of dividing between what of that temple
was to be kept holy, and what was to be account-
ed profane. That this was the design of the
measuring is certain, from the reason assigned
for leaving the outer court unmeasured : " for
it is given unto the Gentiles ; and the holy city
shall they tread under foot forty and two
months." The action gave narning that a
great apostacy was to take place, and that
the limits of the true Church were now to
be greatly curtailed. Unless we mistake,
John now predicts in symbol what Paul had
already foretold in pla.in language. We find
him saying, in 2 Thessalonians, ii. 3 et seq.
'' Let no man deceive you by any means : for
86 TIIE SEVENTH YIAL.
that day [the day of Christ] shall not come,
except there come a falling away first, and that
J\fan of Sin be revealed, the Son of Perdition,
who opposeth and exalteth himself above all
that is called God, or that is worshipped ; so
that he, as God, sitteth in the temple of God,
showing himself as God." This passage, we are
persuaded, is the key to the right interpretation
of the measuring of the temple. The vision i.i:;
evidently placed at the commencement of the
forty-two months ; for why was the temple
~
measured, but that its inviolability might be se-
cured during the time,-the forty-two months,
-that the outer court should be trodden under
foot of the Gentiles? And if we consult tho
history of the period referred to, we find that
there was indeed a great "falling away." Dur-
ing the fifth century the Church underwent a
great change for the worse in her doctrine and
worship, and, of course, also in her practice.
The great body of her members ''"ere grossly
ignorant, and her clergy wallowed in wealth
and luxury. Magnificent churches were erect-
e~, in which ministers officiated attired in rich-
THE l\IEASURING OF THE TE:\IPLE. 87
ly decorated vestments. True piety lay buried
under a load of pompous rituals, and burden-
some and superstitious ceremonies. Pilgri-
mages began to be 'made to the tombs of mar-
tyrs, where tapers were kept burning at mid-
day. Miracles were wrought by the efficacy of
relics; the saints and theVirgin were invocated;
and, amongst other pernicious inventions, fatal
to morality as well as to religion, the confes-
f'ional was intrnduced ; and the pagan doctrine
of the purification of departed souls by-fire was
more amply 'explained and confirmed in this
century than it had previously been. The
grand doctrines of Christianity were lost, es-
pecially those pertaining to the great atone-
ment ancl the one Mediator. The true temple,
which God had pitched, and not man, was
abandoned : the true altar was forsaken,-not,
indeed, entirely,-a few there were whom the
growing corruptions and superstitions had not
carried away. These now formed the true
church,-they were the altar worshippers; but
they formed no greater a proportion to the mul-
I
THE SEYE.\"TH YIAL.
titudes which filled the courts without,-Chris-
tians in name, heathens in reality,-than did
the priests at the altar of old to the assembled
congregation of Israel that thronged the courts
without. Thus the great apostacy rose, whose
swelling tide lifted the "Son of Perdition" to
his lofty seat in the temple of God, w.l1ere
through successive ages he showed himself as
God, by arrogating the powers and assuming
the names and attributes of God. In Vi-
tringa's exposition of the passage we, on the
whole, thoroughly concur. " The interior
temple," says he, " means true Christians ;
the exterior, false Christians, heretics, &c. ;
the altar means Christ; measuring the temple
and worshippers is scrutinizing the charac-
ter of Christians, ren.l or professed ; the cast-
ing out of the outer court is excommunicating
false professors ; the heathen who a.re to tread
down the temple and city arc Christians in
name only (n.nd therefore called heathen), who
are to form an external Church, and have do-
mm10n over it, suppressing at the same time
THE i\IEASLRI.l\G OF THE TEMPLE. 89
the true worshippers of God, until at last Goel
shall exclude them from even the external pale
of his Church."
The Gentiles were not merely to possess the
court which was without the temple: they were
to tread under foot the holy city. Jerusalem
is here used as the symbol of the Christian
Church. The term " treading under foot''
denotes the subjection in which the Church
would be held, and the indignities with which
she should be treated. Like Jerusalem when
taken by the Chaldeans, or rather like the same
city when its site was ploughed by the Romans,
its walls broken down, its stately palaces de-
molished, and the foe walking in triumph over
the ruins, so the Church of God was to exhibit,
during this long and calamitous period, a spec-
tacle of desolation. Her rights and privileges
were to be taken from her; her ordinances were
to be profaned ; her Head was to be insulted ;
and her members persecuted and slain. These
oppressions she should suffer for forty-two
months, which is the precise length of time
that the witnesses were to prophesy in sack-
90 THE SEVEKTH YlAL.
cloth; the only difference being, that the period
of the witnesses is given in days ; that of the
treading under foot of the outer court by the
Gentiles, in months. This to our mind is com-
pletely satisfactory that the profanation of the
outer court and the prophesying of the wit-
nesses were to be contemporaneous ; and that
it is the same event that is prefigured by both
~ymbols,-the apostacy of the heathenish and
persecuting Church of Rome, and the indigni-
ties and oppressions to be endured by the true
Church during the continuance of that apos-
tacy.
'Ve cannot but admire the appropriateness
of the symbols, and the exact and lively picture
which they exhibit of the leading events of the
grand apostacy. John receives a measuring
reed ; the angel commands him to rise and
measure the temple. He does so. On the au-
thority of his Divine commission, and in the
application of a Divine rule, he draws a line of
separation between the pure and holy worship-
pers at the altar, and the unclean and idola-
trous multitude in the outer court. "'e be-
THE J.fEASURING OF THE TEMPLE. !)}
hold Christendom divided into two ecclesiasti-
cal confederacies, vastly dissimilar in point of
numbers, as well as in point of character.
During one period of the forty-two prophetic
months we behold the one company grown so
small, that the inaccessible cliffs and caves of
the Piedmontese Alps sufficedfor their dwelling;
and, though driven by the rage of man to dwell
here, beloved of God, and enjoying access to
Him through the one lntercessor,-kings and
priests unto God; while the other company was
so numerous, that the wide plains and popu-
lous cities of the rest of Europe could scarce
contain them. John, in measuring the temple,
acted, we have said, on a Divine commission,
and by the application of a Divine rule; plain-
ly though symbolically teaching us, that every
thing about the Church,-her government, her
worship, the admission of her members,-is to
be regulated by the 'Vord of God. Civil rulers
have sometimes arrogated the power of mak-
ing l~ws for her, and of saying who were to be
admitted and who excluded from her offices
and privileges. The self-righteous pride and
92 THE Sl::\"EXTH VIAL.
the superstition of men have led them to in-
vent pompous rites and burdensome ceremonies ;
but when brought to the test of Scripture,-
the rule which Christ has put into the hands of
his servants, for the purpose of regulating the
affairs of his house on earth,-they are discover-
ed to be unwarranted and superstitious; they
must be discarded ; and such as persist in the
-0bscrvance of them must be cast out of the
Church as profane.
It is at this part of Mr Elliot's great work
that its main blemish occurs. Nothing could
be more anomalous, inconsistent, and fanciful,
than his interpretation of this whole vision, and
especially of that part of it which relates to
the measuring of the temple. 'rhe time when
the temple is measured', according to Mr Elliot,
is the era of the Reformation. The rneasnrin.rr
signifies, he tells us, the regular constitution
of the Reformed Church by Luther and his
brother reforming ministers, who recognised as
belonging to it those only who held the car-
dinal doctrine of the Christian faith,-" justi-
fication by the alone efficacy of Christ's pro-
THE 111.EASURING OF THE TEMPLE. 93
pitiatory sacrifice, and through Christ's alone
mediatorship." The rod (gaCoo>) given to John
wherewith to measure the temple, intimates,
says Mr Elliot, " that in order to these impor-
tant acts, a certain ecclesiastical authority would
be officially given them ; it being said, ' There
was given me a reed like unto a rod,' with which
to measure; and both the more usual Scripture
use of the word rod, and the fact of this use
being here absolutely necessary, in order to the
words having any force at all (for what could
be the use of resembling the measuring reed
to a simple stick or staff!) indicating that that
same official rod was intended by the word
which was the badge of ecclesiastical or civil
authority." Our readers will scarce gather
from this passage the precise meaning which
)Ir Elliot attaches to the symbol of the (gaC~o>)
rod. He speaks vaguely about it throughout.
He nowhere distinctly tells us whether ·we
ought to understand the rod as symbolizing
civil power, or ecclesiastical power, or a mixed
exercise of the two; or whether this power is
exercised directly by civil rulers, or mediately
94 THE SE\.E:\TH YIAL.
by ecclesiastical rulers, that is, in the way of
borrowing their authority for re-constituting
the Church from the civil powers. Mr Elliot's
meaning must be gleaned, obscurely at the
best, from a collation of passages scattered
throughout this part of his work. It will be
admitted, we think, that we state his meaning
fairly when we say, that he makes the symbol
of the rod to carry the royal supremacy in mat-
ters ecclesiastical; and on the symbol so inter-
preted he founds the grave inference that the
royal supremacy is lawful, and tenders an ad-
monition to those who impugn it, and object
to the constitution of the Church of England
as Erastian. " The Apocalyptic prophecy,"
he says, " seems to have pronounced distinctly
against them, representing, as it does, the ori-
ginal constitution of the Lutheran and Angli-
can Reformed Churches on that very principle,
not as any act of sinful Erastianism, but as
Christ's own doing, and so with the stamp of
his approbation on it."
The fallacy of this interpretation, in which
an_attempt is made to graft Erastiauism on
THE l\IEASURING OF THE TEMPLE. 95
the Apocalypse, has been ably exposed by Dr
Candlish. \Ve refer those who may wish to
see his argument at length, to his " Four Let-
ters." Dr Candlish accepts Mr Elliot's inter-
pretation of the vision ; he grants that he is
right as regards the time and the leading
event symbolized, namely, the re-constitution of
the Reformed Church. He joins issue with him
only on his interpretation of the 1·od, denying
both the meaning assigned to the symbol, and
the historical application of it. He asks just·
ly, " ·whether does eaCao; (' the rod') signify
ecclesiastical or civil authority ? or does it
stand for both together, or for either indiffer-
ently? If it be ecclesiastical authority that is
meant, then from whom is it derived, and by
whom is it exercised ? J olm says, ' There was
given to me a reed like unto a rod, and the
angel stood, saying, Arise and measure.' I
presume you will not deny that tho ' reed like
unto a rod' is given into John's own hands, im-
mediately by the angel himself, 'standing upon
the sea and upon the earth,'-the angel of the
covenant,-just as the little open book was, in
THE S.EVEl\Tll YIAL.
the preceding part of the vision. There is not
a hint here of any third party coming in be-
tween John and the angel, who is Christ him-
self. On the other hand, does the ' reed Jike
unto a rod' signify civil authority, as applied
to the regulation of ecclesiastical affairs? Then,
again I ask, 'Vho is the person wielding it?
John, and John alone. And from whom does
be receive it? Is it not directly from the
angel r
Thus there is nothing in the symbol to coun-
tenance Mr Elliot's interpretation, but every-
thing to countenance a very opposite interpre-
tation. The authority proceeded from the
Head of the Church ; it was exercised by a
minister of Christ ; and there is literally no-
thing to connect it, either in its nature or in
its exercise, with the civil powers; and there-
fore the interpretation that so connects it, be-
ing inconsistent with the constitution of the
Church ancl the nature of spiritual authority,
as revealed in the New Testament, is to be re-
jected.
But a more searching examination of the
THE MEASURING OF THE TEMPLE. 97
context than Dr Candlish's space permitted,
or the necessity of proving his point required,
would have led him, we think, to adopt a still
broader ground of objection to the interpreta-
tion of the (eaC:ao>) rod, presented in the "Horre
Apocalypticre." There are valid grounds for
setting aside Mr Elliot's whole interpretation
of the vision of the fifteenth chapter and the
first two verses of the sixteenth. It can be
shown almost to demonstration, that the mea-
suring of the temple must refer to a period
greatly prior to the Reformation, when the mi-
nisters of Christ had no connection with the
civil authority, and derived no aid from it.
\Vhy was the temple measured, and the outer
court cast out? Plainly'that it might be trod-
den under foot of the Gentiles. Does not this
warrant the inference that the profanation of
the outer court dates from the measuring ?
And how long was it to continue? Forty and
two prophetic months. How, then, can Mr
Elliot avoid the conclusion, that if his inter-
pretation, according to which the symbol of
the measnrtng was fulfilled in the re-constitu-
G
98 THE SEV'ENTH YIAL.
tion of the Church by Luther, be correct, there
must from that period be forty-two prophetic
months,-twelve hundred and sixty years,-
during which the profanations of Antichrist
are to be continued. Is it not much more na-
tural to suppose, that as the period of the pro-
fanation of the outer court, and that of the
prophesying of the witnesses, are precisely of
the sa,me length, the two a.re contemporaneous ;
the more especially that the two events seem
the counterparts of one another,-the triumph
of Antichrist and the humiliation of the true
Church? It might also be asked, ""\Vas there
no separation between the true and the false
Church till Luther's days ? Yes. The dis-
tinction between Rome and the true worship-
pers of the Lamb was in many respects much
greater before than after the Reformation.
But it is said that the Church of Rome was
publicly pronounced to be idolatrous, to be
Antichrist, by the Reformers,-that it was
" cast out." But was she not Antichrist till
seen to be so? Did the Gentiles not tread
under foot the outer court till Luther pro-
THE :IIEASl'RIXG OF THE TmlPLE. 99
claimed the fact ? Or rather, did not the
faithful remnant preserved all along, by their
separation from her and withdrawal from her
communion, and by the testimony that they
bore against her, which Mr Elliot tells us was
pointed against all her errors, " cast her out,"
as really as Luther did~ In fine, it may be
asked why, seeing the vision has obvious re-
ference to a great apostacy, it should be view-
ed as referring, not to the time when the g1·eat
antichristian apostacy arose, but to the time
when that apostacy began to be healed, and
the limits of the Church to be again enlarged.
.Mr Elliot's theory is open to all these objec-
tions, to which no satisfactory answers that "·e
know of either have been or can be given.
As regards the vision of the tenth chapter,-
that of the mighty angel, who appeared veiled
in a cloud, with a rainbow on his head, a little
book in his hand, and who stood with his right
foot on the sea and his left on the earth, and
who, lifting up his hand, swore by Him that
liveth for ever and ever, that in the days of the
voice of the seventh angel the mystery of God
100 THE SEVENTH YIAL.
should be finished, as had been declared hy
the prophets,-we dissent altogether from tho
interpretation that makes the vision the prefi-
guration of the Reformation : first, because
the Apocalyptic history had not yet come up
to the great subject of Popery; and it is ex-
ceedingly improbable that the symmetry of
the Apocalyptic plan would be so far violated,
and the laws of dramatic arrangement so far
infringed, as that the Reformation from Popery
should be exhibited before Popery itself had
been exhibited : second, because the interpre-
tation given to the subordinate symbols in the
vision, in order to suit the theory, is fanciful,
in some instances incongruous, and generally
such as violates the first principles of symbolic
interpretation. A person,-Ohrist,-is made to
symbolize an event,-the Reformation. This
is incongruous. The little book is held to be
the symbol of the Bible, the sea the symbol of
the sea, and the earth the symbol of the earth.
This is inadmissible; for it is plain that if they
are symbols, as is admitted, they cannot be sym-
bols of themselve~. The main interpretation is
THE !llEASURING OF THE TElllPLE. 101
inconsistent with the order of the Apocalypse,
and the subordinate interpretations are incon-
sistent with the laws of Apocalyptic exposi-
tion.
'Ve think the interpretation we have given
agrees better with regularity of plan in the
Apocalyptic drama, and with the uniformity of
its symbols. The series of events in the vVest
had been brought down till the fall of the
Roman kingdom. In the East they ha<l been
brought still farther down,-even to the subver-
sion of the eastern empire by the Turks in the
end of the fifteenth century. The Apocalyptic
history now returns to the 'Vest, and resumes
the narrative of events at the point where it
had been interrupted. This point forms a
grand epoch in the Apocalypse, as it did in
the history of the world ; for now the Man of
Sin was to be reyealed. A dark night there-
fore was at hand,-darker than any that had
overtaken the world hitherto, and bringing
with it to the Church sorer trials and more
protracted sufferings than any she had ever
102 nm SEYE:\"TII YL\L.
passed through. At this crisis of the drama
the great Administrator of it appears before
John. He is seen encompassed with all the
glorious symbols of universal dominion, al-
mighty power, absolute unchangeableness, and
covenant faithfulness. He comes to comfort
his Church, by giving her something to think
of during the trials of her protracted night.
He comes to bid her be of good cheer; that,
this last trial over, all would be over; and, to
show that the mystery of Providence was now
drawing to a close, and that it should assured-
ly be finished in the destruction of that enemy
who was now on the eve of being revealed, he
renews the oath which had been sworn in the
hearing of Daniel, at the beginning of that
course of mystery, so long before. He comes
to deliver his last prophecy to the Church, and
to commission his last prophet to the nations.
'Vhat a seasonable appearance ! How like
to his last interview with his disciples before
his first departure ! The language of this ma-
nifestation was in effect the same as that which
THE ll1EASURIXG OF THE TE~IPLE. 103
fell from his blessed lips on that memorable
occasion : " A little while ancl ye shall not see
me. Verily, verily, I say unto you, that ye
shall weep and lament, but the world shall re-
joice ; and ye shall be sorrowful, but your sor-
row shall be turned into joy. I will see you
again, and your heart shall rejoice, and your
joy no man taketh from you." The cloud was
again to receive Him out of their sight. It
was expedient that He should go away. He
had not yet brought to a close that wonderful
series of glorious dispensations which should
introduce the final triumph and universal es-
tablishment of his Church. But the end was
nigh. One other dispensation, more full of
terror to his enemies, of mercy to his friends,
and of mystery to both, than any that had
preceded it; and then, 0 what a blessed reali-
zation of what Daniel had seen in the night-
visions !-" One like the Son of l\fan came with
the clouds of heaven, and came to the Ancient
of days, and they brought Him near before
Him. And there was given Him dominion,
104 THE SEVENTH VIAL.
and glory, and a kingdom, that all people, na-
tions, and languages should serve him : his do-
minion is an everlasting dominion, which shall
not pass away, and his kingdom that which
..shall not be destroyed."
THE TWO WITNESSES. 105
THE TWO WITKESSES.
PLANTED by apostles, and watered by the la-
bours of evangelists and pastors, Christianity
grew and spread widely in the Gentile world.
The legions from the banks of the Tiber gained
victories less illustrious than those of the fisher-
men from the shores of Gennesareth, and the
dominion of Cresar was less extensive than that
of Christ. The nations inhabiting from India
on the east to Britain on the west received the
gospel. There were few places throughout this
extensive tract where Christian congregations
were not formed. The name of Jesus was
known even on the frontier of China. Scatter-
ed throughout the Continent of India, as well
as in the islands of its Archipelago, were nu-
merous companies of disciples. The gospel had
been planted, too, in those lands which were
106 THE SEVEXTH YIAL.
the birthplace of the human family; and it
flourished upon the ruins of the Babylonian and
::\Iedo-Persian monarchies. 'J'he deserts of the
sons of Ishmael, from the boundary of which
the arms of Greece and Rome had recoiled,
were subjugated by the cross. Amid the moul-
dering temples of Egyptian mythology arose
places for Christian worship. The gospel spread
throughout Asia Minor, and its superstition
and licentiousness were restrained ; it entered
Greece, and its philosophy grew into disrepute ;
it was carried to Rome, and its idols were de-
throned. From Rome it spread northward,
taming the fierceness and enlightening the dark-
ness of barbarous nations: so goodly were the
limits of the Ohurch,-so vast the territory she
occupied. During these ages innumerable souls
\vere converted, and passed to glory. The
righteousness of Zion had gone forth as bright-
ness, and the salvation thereof as a lamp that
burneth. And the Gentiles had seen her righte-
ousness, and all kings her glory, and she was
called by a new name, which the mouth of the
Lord had named. But the faith which had been
THE TWO WITNESSES. 107
spread over so many lands, and received the
homage of so numerous nations, was now to re-
cede from its ancient limits, leaving the space
it had filled covered once more with heathenism,
under the name of Christianity. vVhat a fear-
ful fulfilment of the Apocalyptic prophecy given
in the measuring of the temple, and the altar-
worshippers, and the casting out of the outer
court, that it might be trodden under foot of
the Gentiles ! The enquiry which must have
immediately suggested itself to the mind of
John, when the fate of the outer court was dis-
closed to him, could only be this : ·will the
apostacy be universal? Shall none be spared,
to offer true worship and bear faithful witness
for God in these evil times? Already John's
anxiety on this point had been set at rest ; for
in virtue of the same commission by which he
had cast out the outer court, he had included
the temple, with the select company that mi-
nistered at the altar. But the angel now pro-
ceeds to communicate fuller particulars. Under
the history of the witnesses,-for, while taken
in connection with the temple they are priests,
108 THE SEVENTH VIAL.
taken m connection with an apostate world
they are witnesses,-a succinct and clear ac-
count is given of the struggle which the follow-
ers of the Lamb should be called to maintain,
during the forty-two months, with an ungodly
and antichristian world ; the persecutions that
should befall them in the maintenance of their
testimony; their almost total suppression, to-
gether with the truth to which they had testi-
fied; their sudden and miraculous revival at
the very moment that their enemies were re-
joicing on account of their death ; and their
public assumption to a state of dignity and
power. Thus we have the leading events of
the twelve hundred and sixty clays epitomised
in the history of the witnesses, presented in fi-
gures comparatively plain, that the more highly-
wrought symbolicaJ prefigurations that were to
come after might be the more easy of interpre-
tation.
"And I will gi,·e power unto my two wit-
nesses, and they shall prophesy a thousand
two hundred and three-score days, clothed in
sackcloth." God left not the old pagan apos-
THE TWO WITNESSES. 109
tacy without a witness, neither should He leave
the antichristian aposta.cy without a witness.
"I will give unto my two witnesses," for so runs
the original. The question is, what shall be
given? The implied answer of our tmnslation
is, we think, the right one,-" Power." The
power is spiritual ; power to perceive the truth,
and reject the errors by which so many were to
be misled ; power to cleave to the truth, and
resist the temptations before which the ma-
jority were to fall ; power to proclaim the truth,
and, by doing so, to convert others who might
stand in their room and maintain their testi-
mony when they should be called away, so that
the line of witnesses should not be cut off, but
run continuously on till better times should
come. Individually they would be removed by
death or persecution, but as a body the wit-
nesses should be inviolable.
Their work is next defined: "They shall pro-
phesy." Prophesying means here, as in many
other passages of the New Testament, every
kind of preaching by Divine aid. The pro-
phesying of the witnesses was not to consist in
110 THE SEVENTH VIAL.
the revelation of new truths, but in condemn-
ing the world for its defection from old ones.
They were to receive and profess the whole body
of doctrine revealed by Christ and his apostles,
and in doing so they should testify against the
Romish apostacy. Hence the name given to
them,-" 'Vitnesses." The name is borrowed
from the Old Testament : " Ye are my wit-
nesses," saicl God to the :i.ncient Israel. Th<-'
honourable office of Israel,-as a nation to
whom had been committed the sacred oracles.
-was to stand before the other nations of tlw
earth, and testify to the fact that Jchovah was
the one true God, and that they were no god;,
that were made by men's hands. The same
honourable office was to be assigned to the little
company before us. They were to stand before
the antichristian nations, and testify to the fact
that Christ was the one only Intercessor. As
God termed the ancient Israelites "my wit-
nesses" because they witnessed for the supre-
macy of God the Father, in opposition to the
heathen deities, so here the angel, that is,
Christ, calls these men " my witnesses,'' because
THE TWO WITNESSES. ] 11
they were to witness in behalf of the supre-
macy of God the Son, in opposition to the anti-
christian deities ; and especially were they to
witness for Him as the one Intercessor, in op·
position to the numerous intercessors of the
Romish Church.
The guise in which they were to discharge
their office is specially marked. " They shall
proph~sy clothed in sackcloth." This is no
stroke of colouring, introduced for tho mere
purpose of deepening the dark picture. It is a
most significant symbol. It denotes the deep
distress and mourning of the true Church dur-
ing the whole of that period. It was a thank-
less office they were to discharge ; and often
should they receive rough and cruel treatment
at the hands of men. At the thought of tho
Church of God lying waste, and their brethren
slain, a continual sorrow should oppress their
hearts. Denied all participation in honours
and offices,-deprived sometimes of their na-
tural rights,- hated of all men for his name-
sake, whose witnesses they were,-and banished
from society,-they should exhibit the same pie-
THE SEVENTH VIAL.
ture ofmourningas theancientprophets,ofwhom
it had been recorded, "They wandered about in
l'heep-skins and goat-skins; being destitute, af-
tiicted, tormented (of whom the world was not
worthy); they wandered in deserts, and in
mountains, and in dens and caves of the earth."
They were to prophesy clothed in sackcloth
ma.ny days. The exact number is determined,
-twelve hundred and sixty. These are not
literal, but symbolical days, and denote' years.
The question touching the commencement of
these days, which determines, of course, their
expiration, is one of the most famous in the
whole field of Apocalyptic inquiry. Of that we
shall speak afterwards. At present we shall
merely indicate the principle on which our in-
terpretation of prophetic time proceeds. Scarce
any principle is more clearly taught in the
'Vord of God. A day for a year is a mode of
symbolic speech which appears to have been in
use in very early times. The institution of the
Sabbatical year was given in these terms. In
J,cviticus, xxv. that year is spoken of as if it
were one day, and termed the Sabbath of the
THE TWO WITNESSES. 113
land. \Vhen a mystic character was given to
the prophet Ezekiel, and he was called, as the
substitute of the house of Israel, to bear their
iniquity, the length of the infliction was deter-
mined on this principle,-a day for a year.
Chap. v. 5, 6, " I have laid upon thee the years
oftheir iniquity, according to the number of the
days, three hundred and ninty clays : so shalt.
thou bear the iniquity of the house of Israel.
And when thou hast accomplished them, lie on
thy right side, and thou shalt bear the iniquity
of the house of Judah forty clays." Goel him-
self announces the principle on which that ar-
rangement proceeded. " I have appointed thee
each day for a year." Like the prophet Eze-
kiel, these mystic witnesses were substituted
for the Church, and called to prophesy, clothed
in sackcloth, during as many days as she was
afterwards to do for years. \Ve have had
experience, moreover, of the truth of this prin-
ciple. Daniel's prophecy of seventy weeks com-
pletely establishes it. Between the decree to
restore and rebuild J crusalem, and the death
of the Messiah, seventy weeks were to inter-
H
114 THE SEVENTH VIAL.
vene. In seventy weeks there are four hundred
and ninety days. And between the edict of
Artaxerxes Longimanus and the death of
Christ were four hundred and ninety years. In
the prophecy before us, then, we are to substi-
tute years for days. Our authority for doing
so is clear. During the long period of twelve
hundred and sixty years was the Church to
prophesy, that is, she was to testify against the
apostacy of Rome doctrinally by professing the
opposite truths, and practically by separating
from her communion ; and she was to prophesy
in sackcloth, that is, in the endurance of all
the sacrifices and sufferings to which her faith-
fulness might expose her. During these years
no inconsiderable portion ofher members should
be required to seal their testimony with their
blood.
The next question of importance is, 'Vho
are the witnesses? This part of the Apoca-
lypse has been the subject of boundless conjec-
ture. These interpretations, incongruous and
irrelevant in many instances, we do not stay
to ·enumerate; for it is unnecessary to state
THE T"\\'O WITNESSES. 115
what it would be useless to refute. The cha-
racter ofthe witnesses may be determined with
certainty from the nature of their work. The
matter of their witness-bearing was the TRUTH.
The party for whom this testimony was borne
wasChrist,-" my witnesses." The party against
whom it was borne was Antichrist. 'Yhom,
in that case, can the witnesses be, but those, in
whateYer land, who, during the period of Anti-
christ, professed the truth of Jesus, and testi-
fied against the idolatries of Rome? But why
only two? "I will give power unto my two
witnesses." vYe prefer the more common,
because the more natural explanation. Two
witnesses were enough in law to substantiate
any fact. " At the mouth of two witnesses
shall every word be established." But they
were the smallest number that could do so.
Ancl therefore, when we are told that TWO
witnesses should prophesy, we are given to
understand that such a number should be pre-
serrnd from apostacy as should be competent
to condemn the Romish idolators, and leaye
them without excuse. And when we are tol<l
116 TIIE SEVEJ\TJI YIAL.
that only two witnesses should prophesy, we
are to infer that the number should not be
greater than was absolutely requisite to give
crndibility to their testimony, and to take away
all reasonable ground of excuse from the apos-
tate nations. Few will maintain that indivi-
duals are intended: two literal men would
have been far too few to bear testimony with
effect against the apostacy of a world. Orga-
nized societies must be meant. It is not persons,
but Churches, that constitute the two witnesses.
And if we look to the history of the period, we
find a small but competent number, both in the
East and in the 'Vest, who continued all along
to testify against the prevailing corruptions.
'Ve are disposed to concur in the opinion of
Mr Elliot, Mr Faber, and others, that the
reference hero is to the Eastern and 'Vestern
Churches. The former has, with great histori-
cal research, and with complete success, traced
a succession of witnesses in both Churches, from
the close of the sixth century till the Reforma-
tion. Such of our readers as nuty 'vish to have
fuller information respecting the two witnesses,
THE TWO WITXESSES. 117
their reduced numbers, and their sore trials
during the long period of their prophesying in
sackcloth, may consult the "Horre Apocalyp-
ticre." Speaking of the eastern Christians, and
showing their claim to be regarded as one of
the hrn Apocalyptic witnesses, Mr Elliot re-
marks,-" First,then, in regard both ofministers
and congregations, the teachers and the taught,
it is notorious that they bore a continuous and
unrnrying protest against those grosser super-
stitions of saint-mediatorship, image-worship,
and other kinds of idolatry, through which
the so-called Christians of the Roman world
had degenerated into Gentiles of the outer
court; and again~t which, consequently, wit-
nesses answering to those of the Apocalypse
must needs have testified." " Second, though
before the eyes of men the self-styled Catholics
of the eastern and western Roman world seem-
ed to constitute Christendom,-though they
filled, as it were, the whole visible temple,-yet
did these Paulikians" (the name given to the
eastern Christians) "regard and speak of them
throughout as those who belonged not to the
118 THE SEVENTH YIAL.
Church of Christ, but, being apostates, belonged
rather to the GentUe or outer court. Small as
their numbers were, yet they called their as-
semblies the Catlwl,ic Clmrclt, and said, ' We
are Christians, you are Romans.'" "Thirdly,
as the Apocalyptic witnesses are said to have
observed the commandments and Word of God,
so the adherence of the Paulikian dissentients
to the gospel word, as the alone ground of their
faith, subject of their preachings and teach-
ings, and rule of life, is all along marked most
strongly.'' "Fifthly, it is obvious that the pri-
vutions and sufferings entailed on them by their
]lrofession of faith were such as to make the
mourning garb of s::LCkcloth their fit clothing;
as also that under them they exhibited a self-
denial, ttn1cearied ~eal, constancy, and fortitude,
through life, and unto death, just as if there
was some superhuman power sustaining them ;
even a power such as St John was told of in
those words of the Apocalypse, 'I will givo
power to my two witnesses.' "
As regards the witnesses of western origin,
who has not heard of the 'Valdenses ~ In-
THE TWO WITNESSES. 119
habiting the Cottian Alps, and those deep val-
leys through which the Rhone rolls, they main-
tained through successive ages their testimony
against the corrupt Churches of Roman Chris-
tendom. Mr Elliot has likewise traced their
history from the close of the sixth century
till the era of the Reformation, not, indeed,
without some breaks in the chain, which are
not surprising when we take into account the
remoteness of their times and the obscurity in
which they lived, but still with wonderful con-
tinuity. Here, amid these alpine regions, they
kept alive the lamp of truth, while darkness
covered the rest of Europe. They were re-
nowned for the purity of their faith, the simpli-
city of their life, and the constancy with which
they testified against the Romish doctrines, re-
sisting even unto blood. Europe was then one
wide scene of profanation,-covered with idola-
trous temples, and polluted with idolatrous
practices ; but its central mountains, white
with eternal snows, which descend upon them
from above, and are unsoiled by the foot of
man, had been reserved, like the inner temple
120 THE SEVENTH VIAL.
when the outer court was cast out, for the wor-
ship of the Lamb. ·with regard to their claim
to rank as one of the two Apocalyptic wit-
nesses, we may quote the following passages
from 1\Ir Elliot's work:-" "\Vith regard to the
doctrine of the "raldenses, their own writings
offer us, of course, the best evidence. In the
former" (the Noble Lesson) "written, as it has
appeared, within some twenty years of 11iO,
the following doctrines are drawn out with
much simplicity and beauty. The origin of sin
in the fall of Adam, its transmission to all men,
and the offered redemption from it through the
death of Jesus Christ ; the union and co-ope-
ration of the three Persons of the blessed
Trinity in man's salvation; the obligation and
spirituality of the moral law under the gospel ;
the duties of prayer, watchfulness, self-denial,
unworldliness, humility, love, as ' the way of
Jesus Christ ;' their enforcement by the pro-
spect of death, and judgment, and the world's
near ending, by the narrowness, too, of the way
of life, and the fewness of those that find it, as
also-by the hope of coming glory at the judg-
THE TWO WITNESSES. 121
ment and revelation of Jesus Christ ;-all these
points, I say, of Christian doctrine are drawn
out in the Noble Lesson very simply and. beau-
tifully. Besides which, we find in it a protest
against the Romish system generally, as one of
soul-destroying idolatry, against masses for the
dead, and therein against the whole doctrine of
purgatory, against the system of the confes-
sional, and asserted power of the priesthood to
absolve from sin ; this last point being insisted
on as the most deadly point of heresy ; its ori-
gin referred to the mercinariness of the priest-
hood, and their love of money ; the iniquity
further noticed of the Romish persecutions of
good men, and teachers that wished to teach
the way of Jesus Christ; and the suspicion
half hinted, and apparently formed, that
though a personal Antichrist might be expect-
ed, yet Popery itself might very possibly be
one form of Antichrist. Such is the doctrine
of the Noble Lesson. In the Treatise of Anti-
christ we advance to an admirable and direct
identification of the antichristian system of the
Papacy, which, though written after the period
122 THE SEYEXTH YlAL.
we are passing under review,-pcrhaps in the
last qu.'.trter of the fourteenth csntury,-may
yet be fairly presumed to exhibit the opinions
of the Yaudois of the thirteenth century on the
subject ; they having embraced, as we know,
at the least as early as that period, the view
of the Papacy and Roman Church being the
very Babylon and harlot of the Apocalypse."
The following is an outline of the views held
on this subject by the 'Valdensian Church :-
"That the Papal or Romisli system was that
of Antichrist, which, from infancy in apostolic
times, had grown gradually, by the increase of
its constituent parts, to the stature of a full
grown man ; that its prominent characteristics
were, to defraud Goel of the worship due to
Him, rendering it to creatures, whether de-
parted saints, relics, images, or Antichrist,
i.e. the antichristian body itself; to defraud
Christ, by attributing justification and forgive-
ness to Antichrist's authority and words, to
imints' intercessions, to the merit of men's own
performances, and to the fire of purgatory ; to
defraud the Holy Spirit, by attributing regene-
THE TWO WITNESSES. 123
ration and sanctification to the opus operatum
(I borrow the Fridentine term used afterwards)
of the two sacraments ; that the origin of this
antichristian religion was the covetousness of
the priesthood ; its tendency to lead men away
from Christ ; its essence a vain ceremonial ;
its foundation the false notions of grace and
forgiveness."
Such was the noble testimony of the ·wal-
denses ; and how nobly they maintained it,
history testifies. How marvellous the ways of
God ! How astonishing his power and faith-
fulness in preserving his truth in the worst
of times! \Vhen all the dwellers on the plains
and in the cities of the Roman world were bow-
ing the knee, and saying, ': \Vho is like unto
the Beast," in the midst of the earth,-in the
very centre of Europe,- rose a temple not
made with hands, in which the true God was
worshipped. In the very midst of their ene-
mies was an asylum found for the witnesses,
where they prophesied a thousand two hundred
and three-score days, clothed in sackcloth.
]~4 THE SEYE.'.\TH YL\L.
A
YE?.\GEG PO\YEH OF THE "1TXESSES.
THE office of the two witnesses is still farther
symbolically described. It will not be unin-
structive to attend briefly to the more notice-
able points in it. Chapter xi. 4,-" These are
the two oli,·e-trees, and the two candlesticks
standing before the God of the earth." The
station of the witnesses was a very dignified
one : they stood before the God of the earth.
Their office was not less dignified and excel-
lent: they were " the two olive-trees,"-thc
only repositories of, the true oil ; they were
" the two candlesticks,"-the only dispensers
of the true light. Let us consider them first
as the two olive-trees. Of all the mluable
trees with which Palestine abounded, the most
precious was the olive. Not to speak of its
AVENGING POWER OF THE WITNESSES. 125
numerous commercial and domestic uses, its
oil alone was permitted to be burned in the
temple lamps. Seeing this tree was devoted
to a sacred use, it may well be used as a sym-
Lol of persons in sacred office. It is the pas-
tors of the Church that are intended. There
is an evident allusion here to the vision exhi-
bited to Zechariah, at a period of great depres-
sion in the history ofthe Old Testament Church.
The prophet was shown a candlestick, all of
gold, with seven lamps burning on its branches.
Beside the candlestick stood two olive-trees,
whose oil flowed into the seven lamps, and kept
them alive. The prophet had the vision inter-
preted to him, and was given to understand
that the candlestick was the symbol of the Old
Testament Clmrch,-the lamp of Divine truth
preserved by God in the midst of heathenism;
and that the two olive-trees which supplied that
candlestick with oil were " the two anointed
ones (sons of oil) that stand by the Lord of
the whole earth,"-meaning the prophets and
priests who communicated the truth to the
Church of old. The same symbols are employ-
126 THE SEVENTH VIAL.
ed in the vision of the Apocalyptic witnesses,
and, of course, are to receive the same interpre-
tation as in Zechariah's vision. The two candle-
sticks are plainly the Churches,-the Eastern
and \Vestern, we have supposed,-preserved
by God's power and mercy during the period
of Antichrist. Zechariah saw seven lamps:
John, at a former stage of the Apocalypse, had
seen seven candlesticks,-the seven Churches
of Asia ; but now he beheld only two candle-
sticks. This showed what a dark time it would
be: no light in the world but the two candle-
sticks, struggling to dispel the thick gloom that
was to shroud the earth. Yet there they
burned throughout the long night, maugre all
the efforts of the Man of Sin to extinguish
them, till the light of a glorious day returned
once more to bless the earth. By the two
olive-trees are meant plainly the pastors of
these Churches. They conveyed the oil which
maintained the brightness ofthe mystic candle-
sticks. They i)erformecl the same office to
these Churches which the prophets and priests
performed to the Old Testament Church: they
AVENGING POWER OF THE WITNESSES. 127
preached the Word ; and they were employed,
moreover, in multiplying manuscript copies of
the Holy Scriptures; so that they supplied the
Church with both the preached and the written
word; answering, according to the ingenious
and natural supposition of Vitringa, to the two
golden pipes by which the two olive-trees in
Zechariah's vision emptied the golden oil out
of themselves. Besides its great fruitfulness,
the ~live possesses this property, that it re-
mains green all winter. So did these mystic
trees : they were green during the long winter
of the Christian Church. ·when the storm of
temptation arose, and others were overturned,
they remained firmly rooted and grounded ;
when the poisonous wind of error blew, and its
deadly influence became visible in the seared
leaves and mouldering trunks of the spiritual
vineyard, they remained unscathed by the
blight,-like the fleece of Gideon, wet when
all around was dry. And why did their lamps
burn amid the darkness that had extinguished
those of others ? Why was their leaf green
during the winter Lthat brought so deadly a
128 THE SEYE'.'ITH VIAL.
blight with it to others? They were full of
oil,-oil drawn from no earthly fountain, but
flowing down upon them from tho heavens.
Placed in the midst of powerful enemies ;
called to discharge a duty peculiarly irritating
and tormenting to these enemies; provided
with no outward means of defence; how should
they be able to repel the assaults to which
they would be exposed? how, indeed, should
they continue to exist? The Apocalyptic sym-
bols represent them as armed with the most
ample avenging powers. " And if any man
will hurt them, fire proceedeth out of their
mouth and devoureth their enemies; and if
any man will hurt them, he must in this man-
ner be killed. These haYe power to shut
heaYen, that it rain not in the days of their
prophecy ; and have power over waters to turn
them into blood, and to smite the earth with
all plagues as often as they will."
" These haYe power to shut heaven, that it
rain not in the days of their prophecy." The
allusion here is to an incident in the life of
Elij,ah; and we are taught by association tho
AVEXGIXG POWER OF THE WITNE8SES. 129
horrors of the famine that was to prevail dur-
ing the prophesying of the witnesses. Elijah's
first appea,rance before us is with the words,
" As the Lord Goel liveth, before whom I
stand, there shall not be dew nor rain
three years, but a,ccording to my word."
the word of the prophet was fulfilled.
these
And
That
moment the heavens became brass over the
land of Israel. The spring came, and summer
and autumn followed ; and these were suc-
ceeded by winter; but there was neither cloud
in the heavens nor rn,in or dew on the earth.
\Vhat a, doleful picture did the land of Israel
then exhibit ! Every mountain and pleasant
field was burnt up, the channels of the brooks
were dry, the figs dropped from the fig-tree,
the cluster hung rotting on the vine, the herd
perished from the stall, and the faces of men
began to gather the blackness of famine. As
it was with the land of Israel during these
three years and a half, so was it to be with
Roman Christendom during the three and a
half prophetic years of the prophesying of the
witnesses. It was not a literal famine with
I
130 THE SE\"EiSTII YIAL.
which the world was to be scourged,-a blight
upon the earth, which should consume its foun-
tains and its fruits, and cut off from man the
bread on which the body lives. The drought
here foretold was to ::dRict the spiritual heavens
and earth, and dry up the fountains of salva-
tion. It was a famine of the vVord of God.
It is a historical fact, that during the ages of
their ministry there was neither dew nor rain
of a spiritual kind on the earth, but at the
word of the witnesses. There was no know-
ledge of salrntion but by their preaching,-no
descent of the Spirit but in answer to their
prayers; and as the witnesses were shut out
from Christendom generally, a universal famine
ensue<l. The 'Vorel of God was locked up in
a dead language, or forbidden to be read. The
priests of Rome, instead of preaching the gos-
pel, descanted on the merits of indulgences, the
efficacy of relics, or entertained their hearers
with monkish traditions or ridiculous and men-
du.cious legends,-things that could not feed the
soul. The heavens were shut, and there was no
min.
AYEKGING POWER OF THE WITNESSES. 131
" And have power over waters, to turn them
to blood, and to smite the earth with all plagues
as often as they will." There is, we appre-
hend, an allusion here to the plagues by which
Egypt was destroyed, which began by the turn-
ing of their river into blood. The former was
a spiritual infliction; this is a temporal judg-
ment. "\Ve are told, at a subsequent part of
the Apocalypse, that watc1·s are the symbol of
peoples ; and when we are told that these
symbolical waters are to be turned into blood,
we are to understand that direful carnage and
bloody wars are meant. The Egyptians had
attempted to destroy the Hebrews by drown-
ing their children in the Nile ; and righteously
the Nile was turned into blood. The anti-
christian nations should employ the sword to
exterminate the witnesses, and by the sword
should God exterminate them. Hence the
song of the angel of the waters, when the third
vial was poured out "upon the rivers and foun-
tains of waters,"-" Thou art righteous, 0
Lord, which art, and wast, and shalt be, be-
cause thou hast judged thus; for they have
132 THE SEYE~TH VIAL.
shed the blood of saints and prophets ; and
thou hast given them blood to drink, for they
are worthy." This angel was answered by an-
other from the altar,-" Even so, Lord God
Almighty ; true and righteous are thy judg-
ments ;" intimating that the Church should
take special notice of the equity of God, in
laying upon the supporters of the Papacy
judgments so similar to the injuries they had
inflicted on his witnesses. \Vhen power is
ascribed to them to smite the earth with all
plagues as often as they will, the allusion to
Egypt is plainly continued. Moses had po\Yer
to smite that kingdom with all the plagues ne-
cessary to accomplish its oYerthrow, and set
free the Israelites. A similar power were
these men in sackcloth to possess over the
Papacy,-a power to bring destruction upon
destruction, till the kingdom of the Man of Sin
should be annihilated, and its captives liberated.
Not that these plagues should come at their
wish, as if thl!Ycherished a vindictive spirit, or
had pleasure in the destruction of their ene·
mies ; but, foreseeing the doom with which
A\'Ei'Wl.NG POWER OF THE WIT.'\ESSES. 133
prophecy menaced them, they should predict
its approach. On ~heir account, moreover,
should all these plagues be inflicted : Christ,
their head, should take care that not one wrong
done them should ever pass unavenged in his
administration of providence.
" And if any man will hurt them, fire pro-
ceedcth out of their mouth, and devoureth their
enen1ies..,., ,ye have placed this last, because
it is a final judgment. The symbol becomes
of easy interpretation when we refer to that
part of Old Testament history from which it
is taken. " Behold," said God to Jeremiah,
" I will make my words in thy mouth fire, and
this people wood, and it shall devour them."
This plainly refers to the consuming judgments
Jeremiah was commission~d to denounce. Of
the same sort was the fire that was to proceed
from the mouth of the witnesses. 'Vhen Rome
was wasting the witnesses with fire and sword,
and shedding their blood like water, they fore-
told that a time should come when sho should
Le visited in like manner,-have blood to drink
for all the blood she had shed, and Le consum-
134 THE SEVENTH VIAL.
eel in the fires she had kindled for them. And
not one of their words ever fell to the ground.
The warning is repeated, to intimate its ter-
rible certainty :-" If any man will hurt them,
he must in this manner be killed ;" a caution
not unnecessary, seeing they were apparently
so defenceless ; for never did any class of men
appear more completely in the power. of their
enemies. But,-as if the caution had run,-
let no man venture to engage in any plot
against them, or have any hand in doing them
injury, promising himself impunity in oppress-
ing men so devoid of the power to retaliate.
In seeking to hurt them he will most infalli-
bly destroy himself. They have invisible guards
to protect them; they have invisible powers at
their command; they need only utter the
word, and the bolt of heaven is not moro
speedy or deadly in its work of vengeance.
And have not their words been as fire to the
nations ? \Vhat mean the bloody wars, the
calamities of divers kinds, which have rayaged
the Popish countries of Europe these threo
hundred years ? These are the words uttered
AVENGING POWER OF THE WITNESSES. 135
long ago by the men who dwelt amid the Alps;
these are the answer to their prayers ; these
are the fire from the mouth of the witnesses,
kindled, burning, and to burn yet more fiercely.
This power the witnesses were to exercise,
not when the time came that they should pos-
sess the kingdom, but during their prophesy-
ing, and while they wore sackcloth. It was
especially during the latter half of their pro-
phesying that these judgments were to be
inflicted, and particularly after the seventh
angel had sounded, and her last plagues had
begun to fall on Rome. All these plagues
came in answer to the prayers, in fulfilment of
the predictions, and to recompense the wrongs
done the witnesses. The words we have been
considering look back on three theatres of
juclgment,-Jerusalem, Egypt, Sodom ; and
they exhibit the three leading plagues by which
Rome's destruction shall be accomplished,-
Famine, Blood, Fire. By famine was Jerusalem
scourged, by blood was Egypt destroyed, and
by fire was Sodom consumed. These are the
136 THE SEYEi'iTII VIAL.
three awful types of Rome's end. All the ca-
lamities peculiar to each shall meet in her Je-
struction ; for strong is the Lord God who
ju<lgeth her.
WAR WITH THE WITNESSES. 13';
WAR WITH THE \YITXESSES.
"AND when they shall have finished their tes-
timony, the beast that ascen<leth out of the
bottomless pit shall make war against them,
and shall overcome them, and kill them." This
introduces us to the solemn subject of the
death of the witnesseE.
"\Vhether are we to place the slaying of tho
witnesses among the fuijilled or the itnfuljilled
predictions of the Apocalypse ? There are able
expositors who regard this as not a past event,
but one still to come. Of late, not a few in
our country, whose attention has been turned
to the Apocalyptic predictions, have avowed it
as their belief that the days of slaughter and
extermination prefigured in the symbol before
ns are yet awaiting the Church. lf such are
THE SEVENTH VIAL.
correct m their interpretations, all organiz-
ed societies professing the truth, all visible
Churches throughout the earth, must yet be
extinguished. Europe must be covered with
the bodies of slain Protestants. Rome has not
yet reached the summit of her power, nor com-
mitted the greatest of her crimes ; she must
yet lift her head higher towards heaven, and
smite the prostrate earth with more dread-
ful bolts than she ever hurled against it; she
must yet efface the memory of all her past
wickedness, by deeds of more awful cruelty,-
by slaughters and massacres more inhuman
and exterminating than any with which her
past mrnals are stained. All this must yet come
to pass, if the event we are considering falls to
be classed among the unfulfilled prophecies of
this book. If such indeed be the times we are
approaching, it behoves the Church to have
warning, on good authority, that she may pre-
pare herself; but if already the witnesses have
been slain, the fear such a prospect is fitted to
inspire, being unfounded, cannot be salutary,
and ought to be dismissed.
WAR WITH THE WITXESSES. 139
The witnesses were to be sbin by the beast
that asccndcth out of the bottomless pit. This
is the first appearance in the Apocalypse of
this great enemy of God, and ruthless murderer
of his saints. 'Ve here simply assume that
this beast is the ten confederate kingdoms of
Europe,-the same that grew out of the old
Roman empire,-the Papacy prompting their
policy, and guiding their arms. This beast was
afterwards seen by John, with seven heads and
ten horns, rising out of the abyss or sea. It
was on this ten-horned beast that the harlot
rode; and we find the interpretation of the sym-
bol in the historical fact, that the wealth and
power of the ten kingdoms were lent to agg~an­
dise the Papacy, and that their swords were
ever at her service when she needed them to
slay the saints.
The time when the witnesses should be slain
is marked by these words: " vVhen they shall
have finished their testimony," O'Z'C.lV <r{)MW61 'T?)V
µ.agrug1av auTwv. The verb " to finish," rsi\.sw, is
used in numerous passages in the Ncw Tes-
tament in two distinct and different senses:
HO THE S.lffE.:'.\Tll \'!AL.
First, to finish in po-int of time, so tliat the
person ceases to act. Second, to fini8h in the
icay of peifecting the \rork on which he is
employed: he has perfected, matured it; and,
though he still repeats it, he ceases to perform
it more completely or perfectly. \Ve may
make our meaning clear by a few instances.
vVe have an example of the first sense in
Paul's words to Timothy,-" I have finished
(,..m/..11trx) my course," 2 Tim. iv. 7. Here the
word clearly refers to time. \Ve have an ex-
ample of the second sense in James, i. L),
"\Vhen lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth
sin; and sin, when it is finished (cxor.or</..id~wra),
bringeth forth death." The meaning here,
"sin, when it is finished," is plainly not that so
soon as the sinner has ended his course of sin-
ning, but so soon as his sin is perfected, com-
pleted, ripened, it bringeth forth death. These
are examples of two different sets of passages
in which this word occurs. In the one set tlw
verb "to finish" has reference to the expiration
of a certain period ; in the other it denotes the
perfecting or completing of a certain act. Mr
WAR WITH THE WITNESSES. 141
Elliot has selected an instance of the use of the
word in the latter sense, from what is said of
the Jewish priests, in Hebrews, ix. 6, and which
is much in point: " 'They enter the Taber-
nacle continually('l"a, t.a'l"gE1a> E91't'l"<A3~r•,),fulfilling
their services, or priestly functions.' The which,
day by day, included several acts,-the receiv-
ing incense, carrying it with altar-fire into the
holy place and burning it, kindling or snuffing
the lamps, &c. ; after the whole of which was
accomplished, on any one defined occasion, then
it might be said that the priest had fulfilled his
service, f'l'1:A.:<l'< >~v l.a'l"euav avr~; yet not so as
then to have final}y ceased, l.a>g1wv, or to have
resignecl thereon his priestly office. Just in
the same way," continues Mr Elliot, "suppos-
ing a repetition, more or less frequent, of their
1.1":1.e:-vg1a, or testimony, required of the two wit-
nesses of the Apocalypse,-so soon as they
might once have gone through the several com-
ponent parts or acts of that testimony, so soon
it might be said of them that they had fulfilled
or completed their testimony; yet not so as to
imply that their whole period of testifying was
THE SEYENTII VIAL.
at an end, or that they thereupon ceased to be
any longer Christ's witnesses." Seeing tho
word is used in these two senses,-that of
finishing a course of acting, and that of com-
pleting an act by performing all its parts,-
the question remains, in which of these senses
is it here used? Whether does it relate to
the time of prophesying,-the twelve hundrerl
and sixty days,-or to the witness-bearing,
µ,:ie;ve1x, abstractly viewed ? The more natural
reference, we admit, is to the time of prophesy-
ing ; and were there no elements of judgment
but such as are found in the verse before us,
we would at once grant that this is the true
reference. But other considerations, springing
from other parts of the Apocalypse, render
this supposition impossible, and constrain us
to apply the words to the µ,ae;vg1a-, testimony,-
that is, to regard the slaying of the witnesses
as foretold to happen, not at the end of the
twelve hundred and sixty days, but as soon as
they should have completed their testimony ;
which might be expected to happen whenever
Pope!y should be fully developed, and the tes-
"
WAR WITH THE WITNESSES. 143
timony of the Church have come to be pointed
against all the leading errors in the Papal sys-
tem, which should then be seen and proclaimed
to be the Antichrist. Let us mention these
considerations.
First, the place the prophecy of the slaying
of the witnesses occupies in the Apocalypse.
It comes in between the sounding of the sixth
and the sounding of the seventh trumvet. This
leads naturally to the conclusion that the
slaughter of the witnesses wQuld occur during
this interval. The sixth trumpet was sound-
ed at the beginning of the fourteenth century,
and the seventh a very considerable while after
the Reformation; and it is an historical fact,
that during this interval almost all the slaugh-
ters that have been committed on the adherents
of the truth occurred, and that the Church was
brought lower than it has ever been before or
since. Second, immediately after the prophecy
of the slaying of the witnesses, the approach of
the third woe is announced. Now, on whom
does the third woe fall ~ On Antichrist : it
consists of the seven plagues by which he is to
IH THE SEVE.t\TH VIAL.
be brought to his gram. It is natural to con-
clude that the slaughter of the witnesses should
take place when Antichrist was at his height;
which he attained before tho infliction of the
second woe,-and not when he \Vas reeling
and staggering under the weight of his last
plagues. It is natural to suppose that affairs
would be at their lowest in the Church when
they were at their highest in the kingdom of
Antichrist ; that the midnight of the one would
correspond with the noon-day of the other;
and that the greatest effort of the beast would
be made when his affairs were flourishing, and
not when his power was broken, and his king-
dom had begun to pass from him. Third,
while it is stated, at this part of the Apoca-
lypse, that the issue of the war between the
beast and the followers of the Lamb should be,
that the beast should overcome them and kill
them, it is stated at a subsequent part of the
Apocalypse, that the issue of this same war
should be, that the Lamb should overcome the
armies of the beast. The only way of reconcil-
ing these apparently conflicting statements is
WAR WITH THE WITNESSES. 145
by the natural supposition that the war was to
have these different issues at different times ;
that the beast should for a time preYail, and
seem to be carrying all before him ; but the ad-
nintage should turn out to be only temporary,
r.nd, the war going on, final victory should re-
ma,in with the Lamb. These two issues could
not be contemporaneous ; and there can be no
doubt as to which of the two should bo the
final one. It is plain, therefore, that the
slaughter of tho witnesses could not be defer-
red till tho conclusion of the war, but must
have taken place at a former period,-suffi-
ciently early to allow of the first battle being
lost, of the second being gained. vVe presume it
will not be maintained that the termination of
the prophesying of the witnesses in sackcloth
is earlier than the termination of the \Yar ; for
wha,t is meant by their warring with the bea,st,
but just their testifying, in adverse circum-
stances, aga,inst the abominations of Popery?
Fourth, in the sa,me hour in which the wi\-
ncsses reviver! there was a great earthqua,ke,
and the tenth part of the city fcll,-Britain,
K
146 THE SE\"EXTH VIAL.
one of the ten kingdoms. This renders the
conclusion inevitable that the resurrection of
the witnesses is considerably prior to the end of
the Papacy ; for obsene what happens when
the seventh vial is poured out : the great city
is divided into three parts, and the cities of
the nations fall, which is a much more striking
result than the overthrow of merely the tenth
part of the city.
Fifth, The course of eY
ents these three lnm-
dred years past, aucl the state and prospects of
the world at this hour. This is the last con-
sideration we mention which strongly induces
the belief that the slaying of the witnesses is
past. From about the year 600 onward till
the R eformation, the course of events ran
steadily in favour of the Papacy; all the great
social revolutions and political changes of the
world helped it onward ; even the most insigni-
ficant and trifling occunences turned to its ad-
vantage,-brought it new accessions of 'vcalth
and power. In ernry contest in which Rome
engaged, whether with bishops or kings, she
was victor ; a.nd by a course of almost un-
\L\R \\"ITH THE WITNESSES. H7
broken prosperity of more tlrnn eight hundred
years' duration did Antichrist reach the sum-
mit of his grandeur. But at the Reforma.tion
how plainly did the tide in his affairs turn !
Almost every event tlmt ha.s lrnppened since
has gone against him. ""\Ve can trace the same
uniformity in the operation of events now, as
before, so far as they regard Antichrist; only
then they wrought for his advancement,-now
they are working his downfall. Partial re-
vivals and successes Popery may yet have; but
we are strongly persuaded that affairs will con-
tinue to run steadily in the same course, till
they encl in its total downfall. Let us think,
moreover, of the state and prospects of the
world. Its state is now such as to render the
supposition incredible, that Popery, especially
after it has been so grea.tly weakened by the
judgments of God, should raise itself to such
universal power as to be able to suppress the
truth in the same degree as before the Refor-
mation. Though the gospel should be suppress-
ed in Europe, there are wide realms around
where it has been planted, and would continue·
148 THE SEVE'.'<TII VIAL.
to flourish,-America, India, Australia, and
the islands of the Pacific. If a period of dark-
ness yet awaits the Church, such as that fore-
told in the symbol of the witnesses, the gospel
must be suppressed in all these places, and all
the labours of the past three hundred years,
and all the efforts of missionaries, must come to
nought. But happily the world seems to be
secured against such a catastrophe, not only
by its own inherent improbability, hut also by
the terms of the Apocalyptic prophecy. Both
the scene of slaughter and the agent.of slaugh-
ter appear to be limited to Europe. It is the
ten-horned beast by whom the witnesses are
slain, which every commentator admits to be
the symbol of the ten Roman kingdoms of
Europe. And it is on the streets of the great
city that their dead bodies are exposed, which
plainly identifies the scene of the tragedy with
the European dominions of the Papacy. On
all these grounds we unhesitatingly conclude
that the slaughter of the witnesses is past.
But how stand the facts of history with our
interpretation~ They are in perfect accordance
WAR WITH THE WITNESSES. 149
therewith. The "\Valdenses, the Vaudois, and
other bodies of Christians, Imel borne an open
testimony from the beginning against the vari-
ous corruptions of Rome,-her errors in doc-
trine, her idolatries in worship, and her im-
moralities of life ;-but at last, in the end of
the twelfth century,--the same century in
which, according to Gibbon, the meridian of
Papal greatness was attained,-they proclaim-
ed her to be the Antichrist of Scripture,-the
harlot of the Apocalypse. Thus and then did
the witnesses fulfil their testimony. It was
foretold that this should be the signal for the
beast to make war with them; a11<l so it was.
Rome as a body now moved against them, which
she had not. done before. The war was com-
menced in the edicts of councils, which stigma-
tized the pure doctrines dmwn from the Dible
as heresy, and branded those who held them as
heretics. The .next step was to pronounce the
most dreadful anathemas on those whom Rome
termed heretics, which were executed in the
same remorseless and exterminating spirit in
which they were conceived. The confessors of
150 TUE SF.VENTH YlAL.
the truth were denied both their civil and their
natural rights. They were forbidden all par-
ticipation in dignities and offices; they could
not buy or sell ; their goods were confiscated ;
their houses were to be razed, and never more
to be rebuilt; and their lands were given to
those who Wflre able to seize them. They were
shut out from the solace of human converse :
no one might giYe them shelter while living, or
Christian burial when dead. Thus were the
witnesses called to prophesy in sackcloth. At
last a crusade was commenced against them.
Preachers were sent abroad through Europe, to
sound the trumpet of vengeance, and assemble
the nations. To stimulate their ardour in these
holy wars, a full remission of all sins committed
from the cradle to the grave was promised to
such as might fall in battle. Nay, a service of
forty days was so meritorious' a work as to en-
title the person to no less a reward than para-
dise. The Pope wrote to all Christian princes,
exhorting them to earn their pardon and win
heaven, rather by bearing the cross against
these heretics than by marching against the
WAR WITH THE WITNESSES. 151
Saracens. Army after army was assembled
under such men as Simon of Montford and
Saint Louis. 'Ve do not intend to darken our
page with a recital of the horrors of this war.
'Ve search in vain for anything equal to them
even in the worst atrocities of savage tribes,
when engaged in their most sanguinary con-
flicts. \Vere a faithful account of all these en-
ormities to be given, the recital would fill many
volumes, and would shock and outrage every
feeling of our nature. Though legions of fiends
had become incarnate, and been let loose to ra-
vage the earth, they could not have devised
more exquisite torments,-they could not have
inflicted more ruthless slaughters and massa-
cres,-nor could they have stood by and witness-
ed the agonies of their victims with a more hel-
lish delight. The peaceful and fertile valleys of
the Vaudois and the 'Valdenses were invaded,
and speedily devastated with fire and sword ;
their towns and villages were burnt ; while not
one individual, in many cases, escaped to carry
tidings to the next valley. The young and the
gray-haired, the most helpless and the most un-
152 THE SEVE::\TH YIAL.
offending, were involved in the same indiscrimi-
nate slaughter: mothers, with their infants, were
thrown from the rocks ; bonfires were kindled,
and human beings by hundreds were piled upon
them; pits were dug, and vast numbers were
buried aliYe. In short, every cruelty, barbarity,
and indecency, which rage,· lust, and bigotry
could invent and perpetrate, were inflicted on
these confessors of Christ. To accomplish what
the crusades, though carried on with indescrib-
able fury, failed to effect, it "·as at last resolved
that the Holy Office of the Inquisition should
be erected. The horrors of this terrible court
far exceeded those even of the crusades. The
cru~ades did their work quickly : they swept
across the scene of their Yisitation like a tem-
pest, converting in a few days, sometimes in a
few hours, busy and populous seats into pro-
found solitudes. Such a proceeding was merci-
ful compared with the lingering and excruciat-
ing torments to which the victim was doomed
in the dungeons of the Holy Office. The ra-
vages of the crusades were acted in the face of
day ; the smoke of burning cities and human
WAR WlTH THE WITNESSES. J.53
hecatombs rose into the air, polluting the firma-
ment with a dismal cloud ; the shrieks of the
mother, as in her agony she clasped her babe,
when both were about to be precipitated head-
long from the top of some precipice, were re-
peated again and again from the rocks adown
which they were thrown.
" Their moans
The vales redoubled to the hills, and they
To heaven."
Accordingly, history has recorded part at least
of these horrible tragedies, that we may admire
the grace of God, as shown in the constancy
and courage of the noble confessors that endur-
ed them, and know at what an expense of suf-
fering and blood the truth has been handed
down to us. But it is not so as regards the In-
quisition. History has been forbidden to de-
scend with her torch into the dungeons of the
Holy Office. The crimes that have been there
enacted, and the sufferings that have been there
endured, remain untold. The familiars and the
racks of the Inquisition plied their dreadful
work in darkness. No eye saw the writhings of
their victim ; no ear heard his groans ; and the
154 THE SEYE:>TII VIAL.
much that these dungeons conceal shall remain
concealed for ever, till the dread judgment-
<lay. This terrible court r::tmified into every
country whero there were professors of the
truth,-into Piedmont, France, Spain, Bohe-
mia, Germany, Poland, Flanders, England ;
and endea,voured, by the most horrible means,
to extermin::tte what it termed heresy and here-
tics,-to wear out the saints of the Most High.
Thus were the words fulfilled, " \Vhen they
shall have completed their testimony, the beast
that ascendeth out of the bottomless pit shall
make war with them." The history of the
world is little else than a series of wars : many
of those n,re sufficiently melancholy and revolt-
ing; but in no age of time, and in no country
of the globe, has there been seen a war of so
cruel, ferocious, and blood-thirsty a character
as that which the beast carried on against
the witnesses. Having partaken of her wine,
and being phrenzied and maddened therewith,
princes, at the instigation·of Rome, have wast-
ed the blood and the treasure of their sub-
jects, and literally beggared themselves to calTy
WAR WITH THE WITNESSES. 155
on this war. Philip the Second of Spain, when
on his death-bed, acknowledged to the prince,
his son, that he had spent on the civil wars of •
France, those of the Low Countries, and in
other enterprises of the same nature, more
than five hundred and ninety-four millions of
ducats,-a sum altogether inconceivable. How
many millions of lives, as well as of treasure,
have the efforts to extirpate the Hugonots in
France cost that kingdom ! How often has it
been. brought thereby to the brink of ruin!
As an instance of how careful Rome was to
bind all secular princes to prosecute this war in
the most unrelenting spirit, we may mention
the decree of the Council of Toledo, which was
to the following effect:-" We, the holy Coun-
cil, promulgate this sentence, pleasing to God,
that whosoever hereafter shall succeed to the
kingdom, shall not mount the throne till he
hath sworn to permit no man to live in his
kingdom who is not a Catholic. And if, after
he hath taken the reins of government, he shall
violate his promise,let him be anathema marana-
tlta in the sight of the eternal God, and fuel for
156 THE SE\"ENTH YIAL.
eternal fire." Numerous bulls of the Popes,
conceived in the same terms, and enjoining the
same duty, might be adduced. \Vho can tell
what vast numbers of Christians have fallen a
sacrifice in this way? "\Vhen, at the last trum-
pet, the mounds of this great battle-field,-
which is wide Europe,-shall be opened, what
numbers of slain shall rise up to condemn their
common murderer! Calculations have been
formed of the numbers whom Popery has slain.
From the year 1540 to the year 1570, compre-
hending only the space of thirty years, no fewer
than nine hundred thousand Protestants were
put to death by Papists in the different coun-
tries of Europe. During the short pontificate
of Paul the Fourth, which lasted only four
years, the Inquisition alone, on the testimony
of Vergerius, destroyed an hundred and fifty
thousand. Those that perished in Germany
during the wars of Charles the Fifth, and in
Flanders under the infamous Alva, are counted
by hundreds of thousands. For a number of
years, especially after the Refoi·mation, these
countries swarmed with executioners, and were
WAR WITH T!IE WITNESSES. 157
covered with scaffolds and fires. In France
several millions were destroyed in the innu-
merable massacres that took place in that king-
dom. It has been calculated that, since the
rise of the Papacy, not fewer than fifty millions
of persons have been put to death on account
of religion. Of this inconceivable number the
greater part have been cut off during the last
six hundred years,-for the Papacy persecuted
very little during the first half of its existence:
it was not till the witnesses completed their
testimony that it made war against them. Fifty
millions in the space of six hundred years gives
a rate of upwards of eighty thousand every year.
Let us think of eighty thousand human beings
destroyed year after year for the long period of
six hundred years, till at last the numbers are
swelled to the overwhelming amount of FIFTY
ll!ILLIONS ! 'Vhat a fearful meaning does this
give to the words of John, "I saw the woman
drunken with the blood of the saints, and with
the blood of the martyrs of Jesus. And in her
was found the blood of prophets, and of saints,
and of all that were slain upon the earth !"
i.::;s THE SE\'EXTII YUL.
DEATH OF THE WITXESSES.
" 'rHY way is in the sea, and thy path in the
great waters, and thy footsteps are not known."
Such was the exclamation of the Psalmist, as
he recalled the past eYents which had befallen
the Church, and thought how much of mystery
her history had wrapped up in it. A retro-
spect of Divine Providence at this day would
furnish abundant cause to repeat the exclama-
tion. One would have thought, that after
Christ had come, and by his death put an end to
the comparatively dark dispensation of l\Ioses,
and introduced the more glorious and spiritual
economy of the gospel,-that after Christianity
had been published to many of the nations,
and established in many of tho countries of the
Gentile world,-it would never be in any dt).n-
DEATH OF THE WlTNF.SSES. 159
ger of being suppressed. It might have been
expected that a final end would be put to all
the trials and calamities of the Church,-that
her path henceforward would be one of un-
broken prosperity and ever-enlarging triumph,
-that her light would wax brighter and bright-
er, till at last it shone in tho full splendour
of the Millennium, ushering in that day, long
foretold and long ardently expected, which
shall see all nations worshipping God and serv-
ing the Lamb. This is what the Old Testa-
ment saints doubtless expected : they looked
forward to the coming of the Messiah as the
end of the Church's troubles, and the intro-
duction of an era in which the truth should
have no opposition to encounter, and its friends
no suffering to endure, in the way of its main-
tenance. This was what the primitive Chris-
tians also expected. ..When the \Vord of
God grew mightily and prevailed,-when the
Church, which had been confined hitherto to
the land of Judea, went forth among the Gen-
tiles, and the desolate parts of the earth were
inhabited,--
little dicl they anticipate that her
160 THE SEVENTH VIAL.
period of greatest darkness was yet to come,
and that her severest trials were yet awaiting
her,-that all she had suffered in Egypt, all
she had suffered in Babylon, was as nothing,
compared with those more dreadful sufferings
which she had yet to endure at the hands of an
enemy to arise within herself. And even we,
when we look back, and think of the little pro-
gress the gospel has made, and of the countries
once enlightened, some plunged again into dark-
ness, while others are Christian only in name,-
even we, we say, wonder why God has allowed
so great obstacles to impede the progress of
the .gospel, and not to impede it merely, but
actually to roll it back, and to leave those
countries once covered with its fertilizing·
waters a.gain bare, to be scorched by the fiery
rays of idolatry. 'Ve feel persuaded that God
has some special and great end in view in this
arrangement,-that the early triumph of the
gospel would, in some way that we know not,
haYc marred its ultimate and final triumph,-
ancl that the long delay of its success was
some way or other connected with the happi-
DEATH OF THE WITNESSES. 161
ness of future ages. 'Ve feel assured that
God has some end of this kind in view in this.
arrangement, which shall be clearly understood
by the men of future ages, and which we our-
selves, in other stages of our being, shall know
and admire; but meanwhile it is a mystery un-
fathomable to us. It yields, however, no small
:>atisfaction to know that all has happened ac-
cording to the Divine arrangement. If we
compare the events of the past eighteen cen-
turies with the prophecy before us, we find
that there is an exact accordance between the-
two. In the Apocalypse John was warned,
and we through him, that even after the truth
should have been widely spread, and the Church
planted in all the more important countries of
the world, she should be brought into a more
depressed condition than she had ever former-
ly been in,-that truth should be all but
totally suppressed,-that for twelve hundred
and sixty years the whole world should apos-
tati:r.e,-that two witnesses only should appear
in behalf of Christ,-and that these should
have to maintain a terrible warfare, waged
L
162 THE SEYENTH YIAL.
against them by the beast, the issue of which
should be truly disastrous.
"\Ve have already sketched the outline of
the war with the witnesses; we have traced its
beginning to the edicts of councils, and have
shown that the form in which it first disr~layed
itself was that of the anathemas of Popes,-
those thunders from the seven hills which have
-ever betokened woe to the world,-that scarce-
ly had these anathemas been launched, till hosts
beg:111 to muster, and immense armies to roll
towards the Alps, amid the deep valleys and
inaccessible cliffs of which the witnesses dwelt.
\Vhen it was seen that the sword was inef-
ficient to exterminate them, the Inquisition
was called into existence. To the fire and
sword of war, the racks and wheels of the
Holy Office were now added. Undismayed
by the hosts that gathered round their hills,
and bidding defiance to the terrors with which
they were menaced, the witnesses still main-
tained their testimony. The world was in
arms against them ; but greater was He who
:was in them than he who was in the world.
DEATH OF THE WITNESSES. 163
Their numbers were thinned,-their dwellings
were laid in ashes,-their valleys were stained
with the blood of their dear brethren or their
beloved relatives,-they were compelled to
abandon the low plains, and betake themselves
to the high valleys ; and there, amid rocks
and eternal ice, though not altogether free of
assaults from their enemies, and sometimes suf-
fering dreadfully from their fury, yet, defended
in good degree by the difficult nature of their
position,-" the place prepared of God,"-
they maintained with noble constancy,. from
age to age, their testimony against the cor-
ruptions and idolatries of Rome. Throughout
the whole of the thirteenth, and fourteenth,
and fifteenth centuries, was the war carried
on. At last it became apparent that the end
approached ; not because the fury and rage of
the Church's enemies had abated, but because
her members had been well nigh all cut off.
This happened towards the end of the fifteenth
century. There is something so truly pathe-
tic and mournful,-something so much in the
spirit of the Apocalyptic prediction itself,-in
164 THE SEVENTH VIAL.
Fleming's account of this transaction, that we
shall here give it at length, though doubtless
already familiar to many of our readers.
" Now the slaying of these witnes~es began
in the year 1416, when John Huss, and after-
ward J erom of Prague, were burnt, but came
not to its height until the Bohemian Calixtines
complied with the Council of Basil, mm. 1434;
after which the faithful Taborites were totally
ruined, as well as their brethren in Piedmont.
France, &c., which hapned about the year
1492. For they being destroyed, the Calix-
tines were no better than the dead carcases
(as they arc called, v. 8), or corps of the for-
mer living witnesses, over which the Popish
party did triumph; for they looked upon them
tls standing trophies of their victory, and there-
fore did not think fit to kill them further, or
bury them out of their sight. For it is said,
verses 7, 8, that after they had finished their
testimony, the beast did make war upon them,
xw a'U'ox.rmi au':':.i, xa1 r-a 'U''f'WfJ,a'f'a aurwv, &c., he
killed them, and their corps also (for the addi-
ti~nul words in our yersion, shall ly, are not in
DEATH OF THE WITNESSES. 165
the original, and do but mar the sense), or
their bodies (for some readings have it t11Nµ.~•a),
in the street of the great city, i.e. in Bohemia,
one street of the Papal dominions, or the great
city Rome, in a large sense. For I find that
towards the end of the fifteenth century the
witnesses were in a manner wholly extinct.
For Comenius tells us, that about the year
1467 the "\Valdenses in Austria and Moravia
had complied so far as to dissemble their reli-
gion, and turn to Popery in profession and out-
ward compliance. The Taborites, in the mean-
time, upon their refusing to do so, were so de-
stroyed, that it was much that seventy of them
could get together, to consult about continu-
ing their Church, and about finding out some
qualified person to be their minister, for they
had none left, ann. 1467. And so low was the
Church of Christ then, that when the hidden
remains of the Taborites (who were called
Speculani, from their lurking in dens and
caves) sent out fou.r men (as the same author
relates in another book) to travel, one thro'
Greece and the East, another to Russia and
166 THE SEVENTH VIAL.
the North, n. third to Thrace, Bulgaria, and
the neighbouring places, and a fourth to Asia,
Palestine, and Egypt, they did all indeed safe-
ly return to their brethren, but with this sor-
rowful news, that they found no Church of
Christ that was pure, or free from the grossest
errors, superstition, and idolatry. This was
in the year 1497. And when they sent two of
their number two years afterwards,-viz. Luke
Prage and Thomas German,-to go into Italy,
France, and other places, to see if there were
any of the old "\Valdenses left a.live, they re-
turned with the smne melancholy news as tho
former had done, that they could neither find
nor hear of any remaining; only they were in-
formed of the martyrdom of Savanarolla (who
suffered in the year 1498) ; and they were
told of some few remains of the Piemontois,
that were scattered and hid among the Alps,
but nobody knew where. Now, a few yea.rs
after this, even the few remains of the Ta-
borites were found out and persecuted, hardly
any escaping; so that A. c. 1510, six suffered
together publickly; anJ the year following, that
DEATH OF THE WITNESSES. l 67
famous martyr Andreas Paliwka, who, I think,
was the last of that period ; from whose death,
in the end of the year 1511, or beginning of
1512, to the dawning of the Reformation by
the first preaching of Carolastadius and Zuin-
glius (who appeared at least a year before
Luther, as Hottinger and others tell us), there
was only about three years and a half, which
answers as near as can be to the three days
and a half of the unburied state of the wit-
nesses ; so that the Spirit's entering into the
witnesses, verse 11, began with the year 1516,
if not the year before, tho' this appeared most
remarkably when Luther opposed the Pope
publickly, ann. 1517."
The two witnesses were not individuals, but
organized societies,-Churches. Their death,
therefore, must needs be symbolic : not their
death as individuals, but their apparent exter·
mination as organized societies,-the suppres-
sion of that public testimony which these
Churches had borne before Christendom. Now,
if we look back, we discover but one period in
the history of Christendom to which the pre-
168 THE SE\'ENTH YL\L.
diction can apply,-the period we ham in<li-
cate<l,-the beginning of the sixteenth century,
just before the Reformation. During that
period, all public testimony of the witnesses
against the Papacy was silenced in every part
of Europe, and Rome appeared to be univer-
sally and completely triumphant. Fleming
has told us in his own affecting language, wit11
what wonder and dismay the few individual:"
who were left after the slaughters and mas-
sacres of three centuries, beheld the uni,·ersal
triumph of the Beast,-witnessed the total ex-
tinction of gospel light, which had ceased to
be held forth by any constituted Church. He
has told us that, as if only half believing the
tremendous fact of which they were the wit-
nesses, they sent out four messengers to search
throughout the earth, if haply they might dis-
cover somewhere a pure Church of Christ. The
messengers returned, like the dove to Noah, but
with no olive leaf plucked off,-they return-
ed to tell those who had sent them forth, that
the faith ofthe apostles existed nowhere,-that
error and su~erstition en~rywhere prernilet!,-
DEATH OF THE WITNESSES. 1G9
that a second deluge had rolled over the world,
and that its dark waters stood above the tops
of the highest hills.
But the most satisfactory and convincing ex-
position of the fulfilment of this Apocalyptic
prediction is that which Mr Elliot has girnn.
By a variety of historical references and docu-
ments he has shown, that from the 5th of May
1514 to the 3lst of October 1817,-three years
and a half precisely,- all public testimony
against the Papacy was suppressed; and that
at the later date that testimony was suddenly
and gloriously revived. The importance and
interest of the subject will justify us in giving a
series of extracts from that part of the "Horm
Apocalypticre," to show the eminent clearness of
Mr Elliot's demonstration. "And thus," says
Mr Elliot, " what was the aspect of things
when the new [sixteenth] century opened ?
Let Milner's be my first historic testimony.
' The sixteenth century opened,' he says, 'with
a prospect of all others the most gloomy in the
eyes of every true Christian. Corruption both
in doc~rine and in practice had exceeded all
170 THE SEVENTH VIAL.
bounds; and the general face of Europe, though
Christ's name was everywhere professed, pre-
sented nothing that was properly evangelical.
The Roman Pontiffs were the uncontrolled pa-
trons of impiety. The "\Valdenses were too
feeble to molest the Popedom; and the Hus-
sites, divided among themselves, and worn out
by a long series of contentions, were at length
reduced to silence.' To the same purport is the •
testimony of Mosheim. 'At the commence-
ment of this century no danger seemed to
threaten the Roman Pontiffs. The agitations
previously excited by the ,yaldenses, Albi-
genses, Beghards, and more recently by the
Bohemians, hacl been suppressed by counsel and
the sword; and the wretched sui·viving rem-
nant of Bohemian heretics were an object ra-
ther of contempt than fear.' So, again, Mr
Cunninghame (whose historic sketch of the
epoch I may the rather quote because his pro-
phetic explanation is independent of it):-' At
the commencement of the sixteenth century
Europe reposed in the deep sleep of spiritual
death, under the iron yoke of the Papacy.
DEATH OF THE WITNESSES. 171
That haughty power, like the Assyrian of the
prophet, said, in the plenitude of his insolence,
'l\fy hand hath found as a nest the riches of
the people; and as one gathereth eggs, I have
gathered all the earth ; and there was none
that moved the wing, or opened tlie moutli, or
peeped.' Once more, in language strikingly to
the point, the writer of the article on the Re-
formation in the " Encyclopredia Britannica"
thus describes the era :-' Everything was
quiet,-every heretic exterminated,-and the
whole Christian world supinely acquiesced in
the enormous absurdities inculcated by the
Romish Church,-when,'-I only break off the
quotation at his notice of just such a speedy7
sudden, and extraordinary revival of the wit-
nessing as we saw from the prophetic sequel
ought to follow the event intended by the death,
of the witnesses."
Having adverted to the proofs arising from
the Apocalyptic description of the scene of the
slaughter,-" the street of the great city, which
spiritually is called Sodom and Egypt, where
also our Lord was crucified,"-and of the pub-
172 THE SEVE~TH YL\L.
lie rejoicings on account of their death held by
them, of the peoples, and kindreds, and tongues,
and nations, to which we ourselves shall after-
wards have occasion to refer, ~Ir Elliot pro-
ceeds as follows:-" Inturning from prophecy to
history,-from the symbolic picture to the thing
symbolized,-it seems almost impossible to mis-
take theprecise scene and occasion alluded to. It
can surely be none other than that of the very
Lateran Council held from 1512 to 1517, under
the pontificates of Julius the Second and Leo
the Tenth, just before the Reformation." Hav-
ing stated that the object for which this Coun-
cil was assembled was the suppression of all
that might yet remain in 'Vestern Christendom
of witnesses for Christ, and particularly the Bo-
hemian IIussites,-for both the Lollards of Eng-
land and the TValdenses of Piedmont had been
reduced to silence,-l\1r Elliot resumes,-" In
a Papal Bull issued, with approbation of the
Council, in the very next or ~ighth session, held
December 1513, a charge was issued summon-
ing the dissidents in question (the Boltemian
n•ifnesses), without fail to appear and plead be-
DEATH OF THE WIT:\ESSES. 173
fore the Council at its next session; unless, in·
deed, they should have previously done so be·
fore a neighbouring Papal Legate,-the object.
declared being their conviction, and reduction
within the bosom of the Catholic Church ; and
the time finally fixed for: the said important
session, May the 5th, in the spring ensuing."
" Thus was the crisis come which was to try
the faith of this bleeding remnant of witnesses,
and exhibit its vitality or death. And would
they then face their Lord's enemies? '"oukl
they brave the terrors of death, ancl plead his
cause before the lordly Legate, or the antichris-
tian Council ; like the 'Valdenses at Albi and
at Pamiers, like Wickliffe and Cobham in Eng-
land, like Huss and Jerome at the Constance
Council, or Luther afterwards at Augsburg
and at 'Vonns? Alas ! no. The day of the
9th session arri,·ed. The Council met. But
no report from the Cardinal Legate gave inti-
mation either of the pleading, or even of any
continued stirring, of the 13ohemian heretics.
Xo officer of the Council announced the arrival
of deputies from them to plead before it. Nor,
174 THE SEYENTH VIAL.
again, was there a whisper wafted to the Synod
from any other State, or city, or town in Chris-
tendom, of a movement made, or a mouth open-
ed, to promulgate or support the ancient here-
sies. Throughout the length and breadth of
Christendom Christ's witnessing servants were
silenced ; they appeared as dead. The orator
of the session ascended the pulpit, and, amid
the applause of the assembled Council, uttered
that memorable exclamation of triumph,-an
exclamation which, notwithstanding the long
multiplied anti-heretical decrees of Popes and
Councils,-notwithstanding the yet more multi-
plied anti-heretical crusades and inquisitorial
fires,-was never, I believe, pronounced before,
and certainly never since,-" Jam nemo recla-
mat, nullus obsistit !" "There is an end of re-
sistance to the Papal rule and religion : op-
pressors there exist no more." So did " they,
from the people, and kindred, and tongues, and
nations," assembled in the or.A.a.n1a., or Broad
Place of the Great City, look on Christ's wit-
nesses as (from thenceforth) dead. Let the
reader well mark the description, for it is a
DEATH OF THE WITNESSES. 1/5
description from the life; and let him well mark
the day, for it seems scarce possible that we can
be mistaken in regarding it as the precise com-
mencing date of the predicted three and a half
years, during which Christ's witnesses were to
appear as dead corpses in the face of Christen-
dom. It was May 5, 1514."
So ended the long and furious war waged by
the beast against the witnesses. Christianity,
after existing during fifteen centuries, had be-
come extinct as regarded the public profession
of it. There were a few individual saints still
upon the earth; but there was nowhere a
Church. There were none who now dared
open their mouth and proclaim Rome to be
Antichrist. The event was astounding ; and
yet it was only what the prophecy had foretold:
-"The beast that ascendeth out ofthe bottom-
less pit shall make war against them, and shall
overcome them, and KILL THEM." It ·was a,.
dark night, yet but the prelude to a glorious
morning.
176 THE SE\"E:\TH YIAL.
RESl'.RRECTIO~ OF THE "1TXESSES.
'l'HE witnesses were slain; and how were their
bodies disposed of? Doubtless by being com-
mitted to the grave,-the quiet grave. 'Vhen
one dies, both friends and foes unite in consign-
ing him to the tomb,-his friends to show re-
l'pect to his memory, and his enemies that they
may not incur the reproach of a revolting in-
humanity. 'Vhen John was beheaded, his dis·
ciples came and took up the body and buried
it. The tyrant by whom he was cut off did not
think of carrying his resentment so far as to
forbid the rites of scpulture to his remains.
But it was not to be 'rith the witnesses as with
other dead. They had no friends who might
perform this office to their remains; and their
enemy, whose rage and Yengeance extended be-
RESURRECTION OJ.<' THE WITNESSES. 177
yond death, would not suffer their dead bodies
to be put into graves. Therefore, where they
had fallen, there they lay. "And their dead
bodies shall lie in the street of the great city."
Our first enquiry regards the place where the
dead bodies of the witnesses were to be expos-
ed,-" the street of the great city." As re··
gards the "great city" there is no difficulty.
The symbol is explained in chapter xvii., where
it is said to be that "great city that reigneth
over the kings of the earth." There is only one
city to which this can apply, even Rome; not
the literal city, but that system of polity, ec-
clesiastical and civil, of which Rome was the
centre, and which extended over, and was su-
preme in, all the ten kingdoms of Europe. Go-
verned by the Papal code, Europe formed but
one corporation or symbolic city. To make the
city indicated still more clear, its designation is
given, " which spiritually is called Sodom and
Egypt, where also our Lord was crucified." It
will not be supposed that the literal Sodom is
here meant, because she had been turned to
ashes many ages before the visions of Patmos.
M
l 'i8 TIIE SEVE:\TH VIAL.
'That it is neither the literal Sodom nor the li-
teral Egypt that is here intended, is plain from
the words, which spfritually is called Sodom and
Egypt. The city, on the street of which the
dead bodies of the witnesses were to lie, should
exhibit precisely the same moral and spiritual
character as Sodom and Egypt,-should bear
as close a resemblance as if she had been these
long perished kingdoms risen from the grave.
She is called Sodom, to denote her impurity and
lewdness. This was the characteristic vice of
that city on which God mined fire and brim-
stone. But we question whether the most re-
volting abominations of Sodom equalled those
gigantic and dreadful pollutions of which sober
history affirms the palaces of the popes and car-
dinals, and the religious houses which covered
Europe, to have been the scene. This "great
city" is called Egypt, to denote her idolatry
and cruelty. Egypt was the land of false gods ;
and she was, moreover, the first and cruelest
persecutor. The resemblance holds good in
that Rome was a land of superstition,-a
wo·rshipper of <lemons; and, like Egypt, held
RESURRECTION OF THE WITNESSES. 17!)
the true Church in captivity, and sought utterly
to destroy it; and, in seeking to accomplish her
purpose, shed more righteous blood than ever
was shed on the earth by any other power.
Others have been sated,-she was drunk with
blood. Both cities ham inherited an immor4
tality of shame,-Sodom from her lewdness,
and Egypt from her superstition and cruelty.
Rome has become the heir of both : she unites
in her own person the impurity of the one,-
the cruelty of the other.
It is added, as farther descriptive of this
city, "where also our Lord was crucified," that
is, Jerusalem ; Jerusalem being used not lite
rally, but symbolically. "\Vhere our Lord was
crucified," not in his own person. Since the
day that he ascended from the Mount of Olives,
and entered within the gates of heaven, no suf~
fering has come near his blessed body. But
there are other ways in which Christ may be
crucified. The apostle tells us that they who
apostatize from the faith crucify the Son of God
afresh. Rome is the grand apostacy. Christ
in his truth she has crucified; and Christ in
180 THE SEVENTH VIAL.
his members she has crucified. His own bless-
ed body was beyond her rage: she could
neither imprison, nor torture, nor crucify it.
His members were fully in her power; and
there are no torments which racks, and fires,
and steel can inflict, which she did not subject
them to. "Inasm:1ch," said He from heaven,
as another and another of his witnesses was
slain,-" inasmuch as ye did it to the least of
these, ye did it unto me."
Here, then, are the three types of the city,-
Sodom, Egypt, Jerusalem. Here are portray-
ed by a single stroke her three leading charac-
teristics,-impurity, idolatry combined with
persecuting cruelty, and infidelity. And as we
are to view these three as types of the manner
of her life, so, as we have already said, we are
to view them as types of the manner of her end,
-utter rejection like J ernsalem,-the sword
like Egypt,-and burning like Sodom.
The "great city," we have said, is wide
Europe in its Papal character. But what lo-
cality is symbolized by the "street" of the
great city? The street, r,;-/..wmrt, literally the
RESURRECTION OF THE WITNESSES. 181
broad place, has reference plainly to the forum
of ancient cities. This was the place where
public assemblies were held, where laws were
proclaimed, justice administered, and mer-
chandise set forth. To guide ourselves to the
street on which the sad spectacle of the dead
bodies of the witnesses should be seen, we have
only to inquire in what city of Europe was it
where the Papal gatherings took place, where
the Papal laws were proclaimed, where Papal
causes were adjudged and sentence pronounc-
ed, and where the Papal merchandise was set
forth~ The answer is, Rome. This was the
broad place, or forum, of the great city.
" And they of the people, and kindreds,
and tongues, and nations, shall see their dead
bodies three days and a half, and shall not suf-
fer their dead bodies to be put in graves." It
is well remarked by Mr Elliot, that it is clear
from these words, "they of (from] the people,
and kindreds," &c. that there was to be an
assembly of deputies from all parts of the Pa-
pal world, at the time that the dead bodies of
the witnesses should be lying on the street .of
182 THE SEVENTH VIAL.
the city, who should behold and enjoy the spec-
tacle. This was remarkably fulfilled in the
Lateran Council then met at Rome, composed
as it was of princes and prelates from every
part of the Roman world. But what are we
to understand by the prediction, " and shall not
suffer their dead bodies to be put in gravest'
~Ir Elliot, we think, has not been equally suc-
cessful in his exposition here. He makes the
words refer mainly to the well-known practice
of Rome to deny Christian burial to the bodies
of heretics. As the witnesses were symbolic,
so the burial here represented as withheld must
be also symbolic. As to deny burial to a per-
son is one of the greatest indignities that can
be done him, and was in ancient times employ-
ed to express utter contempt, so nothing more
may be here meant than the contempt which
the Council expressed for heretics, and the vtlt-
rious methods to which recourse was had to
heap disgrace on their cause. But perhaps this
may not be thought precise enough. Then we
must first inquire what we are to understand
by their corpses or dead bodies. Life and or
1tE~urn1::cnoN OF THI:: \HfNE&;Es. IS3
ganization are connected. The moment life
departs, the organization is lost, and the body
is reduced to its component elements. The
witnesses were organized societies, and the
slaying or silencing of them lay in their sup-
pression as Churches. After that, though a
few of the individual members which had com-
posed these Churches existed, they had lost
their organization,-the principle of social life;
they were the mere elements of what had been
the !iring witnesses,-they were their corpses.
These corpses their enemies would not suffer to
be put in graves. Mr Elliot mentions a fact
which we presume to think is the true explana-
tion of the matter. The same day on which it
was proclaimed that there were no longer any
opposers to the Papal rule and religion, the
Council issued an edict cutting off all heretics,
of whatever kind, and of whatever nation, from
the Church, and decreeing against them the
usual punishments. Seeing that, on the avowal
of Rome herself, there was no longer any or-
ganized Church anywhere opposing her autho-
rity, the edict could have respect only to indi-
184 THE SEYENTH YIAL.
vidual dissentients which might and did exist,
though concealed, in some places,-the corpses
of the witnesses. These by her edict she cast
out of the Church, and adjudged to contempt
and punishment. By her famous proclamation,
"Jam nemo reclamat, nullus obsistit," sheaf-
firmed that the witnesses were slain; by the
edict that followed, she proclaimed that their
remains were still upon the earth. That edict,
in truth, served the same end to these remains
of the witnesses, which the refusal of burial does
to a dead body,-it kept them in the sight of
men.
Now, indeed, there was rejoicing. The two
witnesses were slain, and every square and
street of the great city rang with shouts of
triumph over their death. "And they that
dwell upon the earth shall rejoice oyer them,
and make merry, and shall send gifts to one
another; because these two prophets torment-
ed them that dwelt on the earth." 'Vhat ! so
powerful and so proud, and yet so unhappy at
the sight of these two witnesses ! How little
was Rome to be enYied, even when at the height
RESURRECTION OF THE WITNESSES. ] 85
of her glory ! 'Vhat tormentings burned be-
neath her purple, and scarlet, and fine linen !
Had she not unbounded riches and dominion ~
Did not the whole world worship before her?
And yet all this availed her nothing, so long as
these two witnesses in sackcloth refused, like
Mordecai at the palace-gate of old, to do obei-
sance. "These two prophets tormented them
that dwelt on the earth." They condemned
Rome as the Antichrist ; and though one 'vould
have thought that that "still small voice"
would have remained unheard amid the loud
roar of a world's homage, it reached her ear;
and there was in it that which both roused her
indignation and shook her courage ; for con-
science,-not utterly extinct,-told her that
the testimony of the witnesses was just. But
now the witnesses were silent, and the predic-
tion before us,-" rejoicing, and rnaking merry,
and sending gifts one to another,"-whose terms
are borrowed from the customs of ancient fes-
tiYe occasions, is finely and vividly descriptive
of the unbounded exultation and congratulation
which reigned throughout the Roman world,
186 THE SEYE:\TH \'JAL.
now that all heresy, as was supposed, was for
ever suppressed. But since nmn was placed
upon the earth, the triumphing of the wicked is
short.
Accordingly, the next event that happens on
the Apocalyptic scene is the RESURRECTION of
the slain witnesses. " And after three days and
an half the spirit of life from God entered into
them, and they stood upon their feet; and
great fear fell upon them which saw them."
Three days did Christ lie in the grave, and
then He returned from it, to the terror of his
enemies. In this He was the prototype of his
witnesses. Their enemies imagined, doubtless,
that, being dead, they had now done with them;
but at the very height of the triumphing of
their foes the witnesses suddenly arose. The
resurrection must be of the same kind with the
death. The death was symbolic; so also must
be the resurrection. It was the truth that was
suppressed ; it was the truth that again burst
forth. The witnesses did not arise in their
persons, but in their cause. The confessors
that had been put to death in former ages, and
RESURRECTION OF THE WITNESSES. 187
whose martyred blood and ashes had been
sown over the various countries of Europe,
still continued in their graves; their spirits re-
turned not from their glory, to animate their
former bodies, and contend over again on the
stage on which they suffered of old; but a new
generation of men, animated by the spirit of
the ancient martyrs, and testifying in behalf of
the same cause, arose ; Churches were organiz-
ed; and a public testimony was again borne
against the abominations of Popery,-fuller
and bolder than ever. The spirit that quicken-
ed them is termed the spirit of life from God,
-the knowledge of the truth conveyed by the
Holy Spirit. It is said the Spirit entered into
them. The original term denotes not only en-
trance, or taking possession, but entrance so
as to dwell in them. The witnesses were not
again to be slain ; the truth was not again to
be totally suppressed, as before. They stood
upon their feet ; terms which indicate the cou-
rage with which they were filled. They stood
boldly up, as men who knew that God had
raised them, and that their enemies had no
188 THE SEVENTH YIAL.
power to kill them. But in what event in the
history of the Church are we to seek the fulfil-
ment of this symbolic resurrection ? If we were
right in applying the death of the witnesses to
the suppression of all public testimony in behalf
of truth immediately before the Reformation,
then their resurrection must refer to that re-
markable Revival of truth ; indeed, in the past
history of the Church, there is not another
event to which we can apply it. The exposi-
tion which Mr Elliot has given of this predic-
tion is so precise, striking, and satisfactory,
that it is enough on this subject to quote it.
"But does the chronology suit?" asks Mr El-
liot. "It was predicted that for three and a
half days the witnesses were to be looked on as
dead ; in other words, that there was to be the
interval of three and a half years between the
first recognition of tlieir extinction by the assem-
bled deputies from the states of Christendom,
and tlteir resuscitation. vVas this the interval
between that memorable day of the ninth ses-
sion of the Lateran Council, on which the orator
pronounced his prean of triumph over the ex-
RESl'RRECTIO~ OF THE WlTKESSES. 189
tinction of heretics and schismatics, and the
first and yet more memorable act of protesta-
tion by Luther? Let us calculate. The day
of the ninth session was, as we have seen, l\fay
5, 1514; the day of Luther's posting up his
theses at \Vittenberg (the well-known epoch of
the Reformation) October 31, 1517. Now,
from May 5, 1514, to May 5, 1517, are three
years; and from May 5, 151 7, to October 31
of the same year, 1517, the reckoning in days
is as follows :-
May 5-31.......27 August............31
June...............30 September........30
July...............31 October............31
In all one hundred and eighty, or half three
hundred and sixty, days; that is, just half a
year. So that the whole interval is precisely,
to a day, three and a half years,-precisely,
to a day, the period predicted in the Apoca-
lyptic prophecy ! Oh, wonderful prophecy,
is the exclamation that again forces itself on
my mind ! Oh the depth of the riches of the
wisdom and the foreknowledge of God."
That the symbol of tlte rising front t!te dead
190 THE SEVE:'iTH VIAL.
was fulfilled in the fact that although the mar-
tyrs continued in their graves, the cause for
which they had suffered arose, we may appeal
to the testimony of both friends and foes.
"And I," said John Huss, speaking of the
gospel-preachers that should appear after he
had suffered at the stake,-" and I, awakening
as it were from the dead, and rising from the
grave, shall rejoice with exceeding great joy."
Again, in 1523, after the Reformation had
broken out, we find Pope Hadrian saying, in a
missive addressed to the Diet at Nuremberg,-
" The heretics Huss and Jerome are now alive
again in the person of Martin Luther." The
consternation and dismay which fell upon all
the adherents of the Papacy when Luther
arose, and the Reformation under him began to
gain ground, is a fact too well known to every
reader of the history of the period, to need any
particular illustration here.
" And they heard a great voice from he:wen,
saying unto them, Come up hither. And they
ascended up to heaven in a cloud; and their
enemies beheld them." Christ, after his resur-
RESURRECTION OF THE WlTNESSES. 191
rection, ascended to heaven in a cloud : so was
his Church received up at the Reformation.
"\Vhatever tended to give protection and influ-
ence to the Church of the Reformation, may
be justly regarded as the fulfilment of this E<ym-
bol,-the civil laws passed in her favour, by
which, in several of the countries of Europe,
she was placed in the enjoyment of full reli-
gious toleration, and could worship without
incurring, as aforetime, either civil or eccle-
siastical penalties. But the exposition most
in harmony with this ascension symbol is that
given by Dr Candlish, in his "Four Letters to
Elliot," and which is as follows:-
" Thus, generally, it may be said concern-
ing the Apocalyptic distinction between the
heaven and the earth, that the one represents
the region of influence, the other the region
of events ; the one the seat of power, the other
the seat of action ; the first the ideal locality,
or, as it were, retiring-room, in which the un-
seen agencies that tell upon the world's his-
tory meet, and mingle, and adjust themselves,
-the last the actual locality, or open stage on
192 THE SEYEKTH YIAL.
which the palpable occurrences of that history
are enacted."
"Thus, on the earth, the Reformation is be-
gun. For a time, the agents in that mighty
work,-Luther and his compeers,-are like
passive instruments, acted upon rather than
acting,-Luther himself being like one blindly
driven by a superior force, which he can neither
measure nor explain. He puts forth vast
power, but it is as one impelled or possessed.
He cannot regulate his own movements; he
recoils, and is reluctant; he knows not whither
his steps are leading him, and he staggers as
he finds himself in front of the Papal bull.
" But, by and by, the principles thus rudely
wrought out, in the region of events, pass
again, with their great Author and Inspirer,
into the region of influence. The Reforma-
tion becomes something more than an uncon-
trollable effect ; it becomes a commanding
cause. The motives and impulses which, as if
spontaneouslyand simultaneously, stirred every-
where the irrepressible revolt against Rome's
intolerable tyranny, are gathered up, syste-
RESURRECTION OF THE WITNESSES. 193
matized, and elevated into the high position ofa
ruling power, not only in morals and religion,.
but in the whole economy, also, of the social
system of the world. In a word, the scheme
of Protestant doctrine,-based upon the sole
supremacy of the Scriptures as the rule of
faith, and of the Spirit as the interpreter of
the Scriptures,-was settled and promulgated,
as a testimony for Christ, open, authoritative,
and influential ; :ind the harmony of tlte Re-
formed Confessions becnme, as to its spirit and
substnnce, the true ascern;ion of the witnesses.
Certainly, nothing has more struck :ind startled
their enemies thnn thi:;:, in so far as it has..
been wrought out. It has been really, in an ·
intellectual and spiritual point of view, moro-
noticeable, as a source of real trouble to them,
than all the Protestant Establishments in
Christendom put together. Their very anxiety
to exaggerate real and to invent imaginary dis-
crepancies among Protestants, proves how
keenly they are stung by the essential and
Divine unity of the Reformation testimony, in
favour of a free salvation by grace, through
~
194 THE SEYENTII VIAL.
faith alone. It is this holy and heavenly sys-
tem that they hate and fear ; and its exalta-
tion, as by a voice from heaven, into a prin-
ciple of paramount influence, in the teaching
and standards of the Reformers, is the real
cause of the amazement with which ' their
enemies beheld them.'
" I am persuaded that this view will com-
mend itself the more it is pondered, as fully
answering all the conditions of the symbol,
even as you apply it to the era of the Refor-
mation. I think also that it is free from the
difficulties to which I formerly adverted. The
ascension to heaven, upon this theory, has no-
thing in it inconsistent with a prolonged pro-
phesying in sackcloth. The Reformers, in
giving to Protestant impressions a high ' local
habitation and name,' among the elements and
sources of command over the minds of men,
did no more than carry out more authorita.-
tively and influentially, yet still with persecu-
tion, the completed testimony of their martyr-
ed predecessors."
.The resurrection of the witnesses, like that
RESURRECTIOX OF THE "
WITNESSES. 195
of their Lord, wn.s accompanied by an· earth-
quake. The earthquake was connected with
and sprung out of the resurrection, and may
therefore be viewed as symbolizing a revolu-
tion mainly of a moral or religious character.
In the earthquake, " the tenth part of the c~ty
fell." To explain this, we have only·to bear.
in mind that the " city" was constituted of the
ten Roman kingdoms of Europe confederated
under the Papncy. 'Vhich of these ten king-
doms was it that fell at the Reformation, as a
Popish country? The answer is, Britain. The
fall of this tenth part (the tithe) of this city
was the first fruits, as it were, of that great
l1arvest of destruction awaiting the Papacy.
An important announcement follows: " The
second woe is past; and, behold, the third woo
cometh quickly." The second woe,-the Turks,
-eame to its height in 1572, about the same
time that the Reformation was established ;
but could not be said to be past, as we shall
afterwards show, till about the middle of the
eighteenth century. The third woe was to
begin when the seventh trumpet should be
196 THE SEYE:XTII \"JAL.
sounded, and was to comprehend the seven
last plagues of mystic Babylon. "The third
woe cometh quickly." 'l'here was an inter-
val of five hundred years between the first and
second woe ; but the second was to be followed
by the third, at tho distance ofonly about fifteen
years. It was to do its work quickly, after it
did come. Ily a series of fearful and extermi-
nating judgments, following each other with
astounding rapidity, was Rome to be brought
1lown. The seventh trumpet now to be sound-
ed was her death-knell ; but though to her a
terrific peaJ, it was a trumpet of jubilee to the
Church : it announced the destruction of her
great enemy, and the deliverance of the nations,
who were henceforth to become the kingdoms
of her Lord and of her Christ. Accordingly,
no sooner did it sound, than great voices were
heard in heaven, proclaiming the reduction of
the world under the reign of God.
THE T.K\'-HOR.'iED BEAST. 197
THE TEN-HORN.ED AND SEVEN-HEADED
BEAST OF THE SEA.
BEFORE desc1·ibing the third and last vial, we
must speak of the object of that vial. 'Ve
have had no occasion to do so hitherto, because
he has not yet appeared on the Apocalyptic
scene. The next vision of John, however,
brings him before us. Paul, as well as other
apostles, had spoken of one whose coming is ,
after the working of Satan, with all power,
and signs, and lying wonders,-the Man of
Sin, the Son of Perdition, who opposet.h and
exalteth himself above all that is called God,
or that is worshipped ;. so that he, as God, sit-
teth in the temple of God, showing himself that
he is God. Ilut when Paul wrote, as he himself
198 TUE SEYEl\TH YIAL.
tells us, there were lets and hindrances in ex-
istence, which obstructed the appearance of
the Man of Sin, and should continue to do so
for some ages to come. But the apostle inti-
mated, at the same time, that these obstruc-
tions should in due time cease to exist,-that
the let would be taken out of the way, and
then that that 'Vickecl would be revealed, af-
fording to the saints an opportunity of display-
ing their patience in the endurance of his ty-
ranny, and to Goel of manifesting his power in
breaking him in pieces. The Roman empire,
in its imperial form, was the grand let to the
rise of Popery in Paul's time, and for some
time after. It was necessary that the throne
of the Emperor should be abolished, in order
that the chair of the llishop might be erected
in its room. And to what were the great acts
of the drama we have been contemplating,-
the events falling under the seals and trumpets,
-directed, but just to break in pieces the
fabric of imperial Rome, that, the let being
taken out of the way, the Man of Sin might be
revealed. Accordingly, in the vision to which
THE TEN·HORXED BEAST. 199
we have now come, we witness his portentous
rise.
" And I stood upon the sand of the sea, and
saw a beast rise out of the sea, having seven
heads and ten horns, and upon his horns ten
crowns, and upon his heads the name of bias·
phemy." (Chapter xiii.) This chapter contains
an account of the rise of two beasts. The first
beast is represented as rising out of the sea,
having seven heads and ten horns ; the second
beast is represented as rising out of the earth,
having two horns like a lamb, and speaking as
a dragon. "\Ve shall briefly indicate what we
are to understand by these two beasts. This
will enable us to enter with advantage upon
the exposition of the details of the symbols.
The first beast,-that which rose out of the
sea,-we take to be the secular empire, with its
Papal head. The second beast,-that which
rose out of the earth,-we take to be the hier-
archy or ecclesiastical state. It was by the
union of these two that the world was so long
oppressed, and the Church brought to the
very brink of extermin:ttion. Between the two
200 THE SEVENTH YIAL.
branches of the Papacy there was as close and
intimate alliance almost as between body and
soul. The State served the same purpose to
the Popedom which the horse does to the rider,
-which the hand does to the will. It was the
beast on which the harlot rode ; it was the
:um by which the Papacy executed all its cruel
and bloody decrees.
It appeared to John as if he were stationed
on the sea-shore ; and as he gazed upon the
waters, which at the time were agitated with
tempest, he saw a monster emerging from the
deep. His appearance was sufficiently dread-
ful. He had seven heads, indicative of craft;
ten horns, the symbol of power ; crowns upon
his horns, the emblem of dominion and au-
thority ; on his heads blasphemous titles.
plainly indicating an idolatrous and impious
character. Such was the frightful combina-
tion of evil qualities,-craft., ferocity, power,
impiety,-which was apparent at the very first
glance.
It is usual in Scripture to represent tyr:rn-
nical kingdoms under the symbol of a wild
THE TEX-HOR:-IED BE.\ST. 201
boast. It is impossible not to admire the pro-
priety of the symbol. It is the property of
man to be ruled by reason, to be accessible to
considerations of clemency and pity, and to
have respect in his actions to the will of his
Maker. It is the attribute of a beast, on the
other hand, to be actuated only by brnte pas-
sion and appetite. Now, have not the ki11g-
dorns of the world hitherto, and especially the
four great Despotisms seen by Daniel in vision,
acted more like the beast of prey than as as-
sociations of reasonable and accountable be-
ings? Have they not exercised a lawless vio-
lence all along, and done whatever they listed,
without regard to tho will of Him who ruleth
among men? The ascertained import of thP
symbol, then, renders it clear that it is the
rise of a tyrannical and persecuting power that
is here prefigured. A reference to the pro-
phecy of Daniel will give us material aid in
determining the kingdom here symbolized.
There is the closest resemblance, as any one
may see who compares the two descriptions,
between the fourth beast of Daniel and the
202 TUE SEVENTH VIAL.
beast of the sea seen by John. The descrip-
tion given by Daniel is such as to lead us to
conclude that the fourth beast was a com-
pound of the preceding three. It had the
teeth of the Babylonian lion, the claws of the
Persian bear, and the spotted skin of the Ma-
cedonian leopard ; that is, it possessed all the
propensities of its predecessors, in addition to
its own characteristic qualities. Now, such is
precisely the appearance of the beast of the
sea, verse 2 :-" And the beast which I saw
was like unto a leopard, and his feet were as
the feet of a bear, and his mouth as the mouth
of a lion." Hence we conclude that it is one
and the same political association which is
symbolized by the fourth beast of Daniel and
the beast of the sea of John. The ten horns
of the beast of the Apocalypse answer to the
ten toes in the image in Daniel. But the
fourth beast of Daniel is, by the universal con-
sent of expositors, the symbol of the Roman
empire; and it is this empire, therefore, that
is symbolized by the beast of the sea ; only we
h:ixe mainly to do with it in its divided form,
THE TEN-HORNED BEAST. 203
as held forth by the ten horns. "\Ve may note
this farther point of resemblance,-that tl10
two beasts came to the same end : Daniers
is slain, and his body is given to the devouring
flame; John's is taken prisoner at the battle
of Armageddon, and is cast into the lake burn-
ing with fire and brimstone. A short com-
mentary will make the application of the vision
to the Papal empire exceedingly plain.
The beast rose out of the sea. The sea is
the symbol of society in a state of agitation.
The western world at this time was convulsed.
The winds that agitated it blew from the
north, and were formed of the Gothic nations~
whose successive eruptions completely destroy-
ed the fabric of the empire, and plunged so-
ciety into the utmost confusion. It was out
of this flood that the ten Roman kingdoms
of modern Europe emerged. " Having seven
heads." Let us here avail ourselves of the aid
of an interpreter who, we are sure, will not
mislead us. In Revelation, xvii. 9, l 0, we are
told the seven heads have a twofold significa-
tion. First, they symbolize the seven. hills
20i THE SEVENTH \"IAL.
which were to be the seat of the government
of the kingdom. This, as Elliot remarks, " is
a character as important as it is obvious. It
binds the power symbolized, through all its
various mutations, from its earliest beginning
to its end, to that same seven-hilled locality,
even like one adscriptum glebre, and as au
essential part of his very constitution and life."
This leads us at once to the city of Rome. In
the passage just referred to, we are farther in-
formed that the seven heads also symbolize
seven kings, i.e. seven forms of government.
Now, such is the number of distinct forms of
government which the Roman empire has as-
sumed from first to last,-kings, consuls, dic-
tators, decemvirs, military tribunes, emperors.
Of these kings, or forms of government, it was
said, "five are fallen, and one is, and the other
is not yet come." Five of these had fallen be-
fore the days of John; the sixth, namely, the
imperial, was then in being; and the seventh
was then future. It was intimated, " and
when he [the seventh head] cometh, he must
continue a short space." Who is this seventh
THE TEN-HORNED BEAST. 20.'.>
head, whose term of existence was to be so
brief? On no point are Apocalyptic commen-
tators more divided, or their conclusions more
\'ague. Mead makes the seventh head the
<lemi-Cresar, or western emperor. Bishop
Newton thinks the dukedom of Rome, estab-
lished after the conquest of the Heruli, is
meant. Others suppose that the Christian em-
perors constituted the seventh head, and had
its wound by the sword of the Heruli. ).Ir
Elliot finds the seyenth lrnad in the change of
government that took place under Diocletian,
who, together with his successors, in place of
emperor or general of the Roman armies, be-
eame king or lord, and in place of the laurel
crown and purple, assumed the diadem and
robe of silk,-the Asiatic symbols of absolute
rule. This was followed by great and funda-
mental changes in the administra.tion, and is
marked by Gibbon as the " New Form of
Administra.tion." These are the nearest ap-
proaches which have been made to the solu-
tion of the difficulty of the seventh head,-
" And I saw one of his heads as if it were
206 THE SEVENTH YIAL.
wounded to death." This form of government
was extinguished by the sword of the Goths.
A new head was to arise in the room of that
which was cut off; and this, though it should
count only as the seventh, would in reality be
the eighth ; and under it the beast was to go
into perdition : " he is the eighth, and is of
the seven, and goeth into perdition." ·who is
the eighth head~ To this question an answer
is given by the angel himself,-" The beast that
thou sawest was, and is not. And the beast
that was, and is not, even he is the eighth."
From which we infer that the Papacy is the
eighth head. This is a singular, and apparently
-
contradictory, account of the beast,-" the
beast that was, and is not, and yet is." How
was it possible that both statements could be
true,-that the beast had ceased to exist, and
yet was in existence, i.e. when it was the ob-
ject of wonder to all who dwelt on the earth?
And yet this account is perfectly consistent
with fact. Pagan and imperial Rome had ex-
isted; but the Gothic invasion had brought its
existence to an end, apparently for ever; but
THE TEN-HORNED BEAST. 207
it rose again in its decem-regal state. It was
the same empire in reality which existed now
in the ten kingdoms, as had existed in its un-
divided form before the Gothic invasion. 'ye
have already shown the identity of the seven-
headed and ten-horned beast of the abyss or
sea, with Daniel's fourth monarchy. But
Daniel's fourth monarchy was the Roman em-
pire, and therefore the symbol before us is
that of the Roman empire, which again re-ap-
peared. It had apparently been wounded to
death ; but it was resuscitated, and mainly
through the Papacy. Thus the beast was not,
and yet was.
"And ten horns." This is explained in chap-
ter xvii. 12. " And the ten horns which thou
sawest are ten kings,"-not individual kings,
but lines of rulers or kingdoms,- " which have
received no kingdom as yet ;"--an intimation
that their appearance was still future. The
empire had to be broken in pieces by the shock
of the barbarous nations, and out of what had
been one undivided monarchy, ten distinct and
independent kingdoms were to arise. It is well
208 THE SE\"E;\TH \'JAL.
known that such was the origin of the ten Ro-
man kingdoms of Europe. Let us trace the
honn<lary line of the western empire. The
wall of Adrian, dividing Scotland from Eng-
land, forms the boundary on the north. This
line we prolong across the German Ocean to
the Rhine. \Ve ascend that river to Iladen-
Haden ; thence strike eastward to the source
of the Danube, which we descend to Belgrade,
and thence in a south-western direction, across
the Adriatic and Mediterranean, to the great
1lesert of Africa. This line will include the
Roman empire of the west ; and on this plat-
form were the ten kingdoms to arise. \Ve
~hould expect that these ten kingdoms would
he formed not long after the Gothic invasion,
for the beast emerged from the flood, with ull
the ten horns already upparent. \Ve ure dis-
posed to· take the era A.D. 53~. At that epoch
we find the following ten kingdoms within the
limits we have traced :-the Anglo-Suxons;
the Fmnks of central, the Allaman-Frunks of
eastern, and the Burgundic-Franks of south-
eastern France; the Visigoths; the Suevi; the
TIIE TEN·IIORNED BEAST. 209
Vandals ; the Ostrogoths in Italy ; the Bava-
rians ; and the Lombards. Great changes
have occurred at various periods in Europe..
Some of its states have fallen, and others have
arisen ; but from the Gothic invasion to the
present era, ten has been the prevailing num-
ber of its kingdoms.
Of these ten kings or kingdoms it was said,
that they " receive power as kings one hour
with the beast." The (µ.w.v wgav), one hour,
indicates not the duration of their power, but.
the time when they should receive it,-that.
their formation as independent kingdoms, and
the development of the beast, should synchro-
nise ; both should receive their power at one
and the same time. It was at the end of the
fifth century, or rather the beginning of the
sixth, that the formation of the ten Gothic
kingdoms was completed ; and by the same
time the Pope, supported by the decrees of
councils and. the acquiescence of kings, had as-
serted his character of vicar ofChrist and vice-
gerent of God, in virtue of which he claimed
supremacy over all kings, and had begun to ex-
o
.210 THE SEYKKTH VIAL.
hibit the antichristian characteristics of bla.'l-
phemy and hostility to the saints.
No sooner had the beast of the sea appeared,
than " the dragon gave him his }lower, and hi8
seat, and great authority." The dragon recog-
nised the beast newly arisen as his lineal de-
scendant, and, as such, hastened to serve him
heir to all his power, wealth, and dominion.
By the dragon Pagan Rome is meant. By the
.seat of the dragon is denoted the countries over
which Rome had swayed the sceptre, which in-
cluded the richest lands and the wealthiest
cities of the western world. Of all these, once:
the possession of Pagan Uome, Papal Home has
long been mistress. She occupies the same
seat as the dragon of old. On his heads
were names of blasphemy. E\•ery form of go-
vernment which had arisen at Rome has as-
sumed titles and arrogated powers of a blasphe-
mous character. The chief magistrate of the
Romans from the first 'rns the high priest,-
Pontifex Maximus,-and the supreme authority
in matters ecclesiastical. To come down to the
emperors, some of them were addressed as the
THE TEX-HORNED flE.\ST. 211
" august" and the "eternal one." l\Iost of
them were worshipped as God after death, and
some of them were so eYen before it. But the
last head,-the Papacy,-far surpassed its pre-
decessors. There is nothing in the histor.r of
the universe that equals the blasphemous titles
and powers which the Popes have assumed.
They have openly laid claim to be regarded as
Yicar of Christ, the vicegerent of the Creator,
and goyernor of the 'rnrld ; and on that claim
is built up the tremendous and monstrous fab-
ric, partly civil and partly ecclesiastical, that
constitutes the Papacy,-the beast.
" And all the 'rorld wondered after the
beast." This was partly owing to what ii;i
stated before, namely, that "his deadly wound
was healed." The event was so marvellous,
that it dre\v the admiration of all that dwelt
upon the earth to the beast that was the sub-
ject of it. \Yhen it was pierced by the sword
of the Goths, men thought there was now an
end of that terrible kingdom, which had shed
so much blood and devoured so much flesh ;
but when they saw it revive in its ten horns
212 THE SEVE~TH YlAL.
or kingdoms,-occupying the same territory,
governed by the same laws, as its predecessor,
and finding a new bond of union in the Papacy,
-it appeared to them as if Rome had returned
from her grave,-so completely had the wound
been healed. This appeared little less than a
miracle in the eyes of a blinded world, which ac-
cordingly fell down before the beast. They
had worshipped the dragon,-given unbound-
ed admiration and implicit obedience to every
edict of Pagan Rome, whether it regarded
things civil or things spiritual ;-it had dictat-
ed supremely both law and religion. And when
they saw the beast sitting on the same throne,
and wielding the same power, as the dragon,
they could render nothing less to the beast
than they had given aforetime to the dragon.
"'' And they worshipped the dragon, which gave
power unto the beast; and they worshipped the
beast, saying, 'Vho is like unto the beast ? vVh<>
is able to make war with him?" The religion
of Papal Rome was but a revival of that of
Pagan Rome, under different names; and it be-
came an easy matter to those who dwelt upon
THE TEN-HORNED BEAST. 213
the earth to transfer their worship from the
one to the other. They who had worshipped
demons could do so by whatever name they
were called, whether the classic one of Venus,
or the Christian one of l\Iary.
"And there was given unto him a mouth,
speaking great things and blasphemies." 'Vhen
the beast found himself on the throne of the
dragon, and the world prostrate before him,
his heart was lifted up within him, like that of
the king of Babylon of old. He imagined him--
self to be God, and the pride of his heart found
vent in the dreadfully blasphemous words of
his mouth. He opened his mouth in blas-
phemy against God, to blaspheme his name,
and his tabernacle, and them that dwell in
heaven." No names have been so fearfully
blasphemous as those which the Pope has as-
sumed. He has claimed dominion over .the
whole world ; and, as if this were not enough,
he has extended it into the other. vVhom he
will he can consign to hell, and whom he will
he can save from it. The gates of Paradise he
can lock and unlock. He has issued his order
214 TllE SF.YF.l\Tll VIAJ,.
to angels, straitly charging them to do his bid-
cling. '\'Ve command the angels of Paradise
to introduce that soul into heaYen," said Cle-
ment the Sixth, of sucl1 as might die on their
]lilgrimage to Rome in the year of Jubilee.
He has exercised authority over devils, com-
pelling them to release such as he wished to
<leliYer from flames. Gregory the Grea,t res-
cued thus the soul of the paga,n emperor Tro-
jan. To speak of his setting his throne above
that of kings is nothing very remarkable: he has
exalted it above that of angels and archangels,
-he has exalted it above God himself ; he
has annulled Divine ordinances, and claimed a
power to abrogate the moral law,-thus chal-
lenging an authority superior to that from
which the law emanated ; he has sat in
the temple of God, showing himself that he is
God. "To the Romish Church," writes Cle-
ment the Second, " ernry knee must bow of
things on earth, and that at his pleasure even
the door of heaven is opened and shut." \Ve
find Cardinal Domiani, writing to Victor the
Second, introducing Christ as speaking,-" T
THE TEX-HORNED BEAST. 21.5
hr.ve appointed thee to be as the father of
emperors; I have delivered into thy hands the
keys of the whole Church universal, and placed
thee my vicar over her : yea, by the removal
of a king" (the Emperor Henry the Third had
just died), "have granted thee the rights of the
whole Roman empire now vacant." 'Ve find
Innocent the Third calling himself the " Lieu-
tenant of Him who hath written upon his ves-
ture and on his thigh, the King of kings and
Lord of lords," and telling King Richard
that "he held the place of God upon the
earth; and, without distinction of persons, he
would punish the men and the nations that
presumed to oppose his commands." 'Ve find
Clement the Seventh affirming, in a letter to
King Charles the Sixth, that " as there is but
one Goel in the heavens, so there cannot nor
ought to be of right but one God on earth."
Politianus thus addresses Alexander the Sixth :
" 'Ve rejoice to see you raised above all human
things, and exalted even to Divinity itself, see-
ing there is nothing, except God, which is not.
put under you." Under the pontifical arms, at.
216 THE SEVE..1'\TH VIAL.
the coronation of the Pope we have just named,
was inscribed this distich,-
" C:csare magna fnit, nunc Uoma est maxima, Sextus
Regnat Alexander : ille vir, inde Dens.
But, not to multiply proofs, we close with the
very extraordinary titles assumed by Martin the
Fifth, in the instructions given to a nuncio sent
to Constantinople:-" The most holy and most
blessed, who is invested with heavenly power,
who is lord on earth, the successor of Peter,
the Christ or anointed of the Lord, the lord
of the universe, the father of kings, the light
of the world, the sovereign pontiff, Pope l\lar-
tin." Nor are we to suppose that this was a
mere empty boast, or unallowed claim, like the
high-sounding titles which eastern despots have
sometimes assumed. It was ratified by coun-
cils, submitted to by kings, and exercised in
the l'ery spirit in which it was arrogated over
the persons, consciences, and lives of all men.
There is not a fact in history better estn.blished
than the literal fulfilment of what is here fore-
told :-" These have one mind, and shall give
thei1• power and strength unto the beast."
THE TEN-HORNED BEAST. 217
"And all that dwell upon the earth shall wor-
ship him, whose names are not written in the
book of life of the Lamb slain from the foun-
dation of the world." And thus, too, was
Paul's prophecy in his epistle to the 'l'hessa-
lonians fulfilled:-" ''rho opposeth and exalteth
himself above all that is called God, or that is
worshipped, so that he, as God, sitteth in the
temple of God, showing himself that he is
God."
"And it was given unto him to make war with
the saints, and to overcome them." vVe have
already spoken of this war under the head of
the witnesses, and our space docs not permit
us to re-open the subject. There is not one of
the ten horns which has not at some period of
its history persecuted the saints ; nor is there
a spot of Europe, within the limits 'Ye ham
formerly traced, which has not been sprinkled
with their blood. '\Ve need only name the
murderous crusades carried on for ages against
the '\Valdenses and Albigenses ; the slaugh-
ter of the Piedmontese, whose bones whiten-
218 THE SI:VE.!\'fH VIAL.
ed the Alps ; the martyrs of Provence, whose
blood tinged so oft the blue waters of the
Rhone ; the massacre of St Bartholomew,
when in Paris alone thirty thousand Protes-
tants perished, and the intelligence of which
was received at Rome with the ringing of bells
and the firing of cannon ; the revocation of the
•Hlict of Nantes, when many thousand Protes-
tant churches were razed to the ground, and
hundreds of thousands of Protestants were put
to the sword, or driven into banishment ; the
hloody wars of Alva in the Low Countries; the
suppression of the Reformation in Spain n.nd
Italy by the terrors of the axe, the faggot,
and the horrors of the Inquisition ; besides the
countless thousands who perished at othertimes,
and in other parts of Europe, by the hands of
Popery, and of whom no recorrl has been kept,
and whose names shall never be known till the
hooks are opened. Engraven on the page of
history stands the recorrl of her crimes. She
i>hall perish, but it is eternal. To the end of
time not a line of the crimson writing shall
TIIE TEX•l!OR!\'ED IlEAST. 219
be effaced ; and so long as it continues to be
read, it will excite the mingled horror and in-
1lignation of mankind.
Butthe most marvellous thingin the prophecy
is, that the beast should overcome in the war,
,
;,, e. in the first instance, for in the final issue
the Lamb should overcome. Let us here mark
the adorable sovereignty of God. This power
to make war, and to overcome in the war, was
givr;n unto the beast. " Thou couldest have
no power at all against me," said Christ, when
standing before Pilate to be judged, "had it
not been given thee from above." The beast,
in the plenitude of his pride and power, thought
that he might do according to his will, without
having respect to any God or man, saying, no
doubt, with the king of old, who is he that can
deliver out of mine hand? The beast was mis-
taken herein; he could not have spilt a drop of
the Church's blood, nor touched a hair of her
head, had he not received power from, above.
But why did God permit his fold so long to be
a field of slaughter? 'Why did the Church's
blood continue to flow, and her groans to ascend
220 THE SEVE~TH VIAL.
to heaven, while He stood by as one who either
would not or could not deliver? 'Ve know not.
But this we know, that it was God who did it,
and tlrn.t He had wise purposes for doing it, and
that He will yet bring good out of it all, and
glorify both himself and the Church by the
course of suffering through which He has led
her.
THE TWO-HORNED BEAST. 221
THE TWO-HORNED BEAST OF THE EARTH.
" AND I beheld another beast coming up out oi
the earth; and he had two horns like a lamb,
and he spake as a dragon." We intend here
simply to indicate, in a few brief sentences, who
this lamb-like beast is, and then pass on to the
grand catastrophe.
It is the ecclesiastical hierarchy which we take
to be here symbolized. The vision brings the
Pope again before us ; only in the beast of the
sea he is seen as the ruling head of the ten Pa-
pal kingdoms ; here he is beheld as the ruling
head of the Papal clergy. This beast rose out
of the earth,-the symbol of the western empire
in its tranquillized state. He had two horns
like a lamb. The key of the symbol is found in
our Lord's warning :-" Beware of them that
THE SEVEXTH YIAL.
come to you in sheep's clothing." Such was the
clothing in which the beast of the earth ap-
peared,-a circumstance which fixes upon him
a clerical character. The two horns indicat!:'
the two kinds of dominion which were to centre
in the ruling head of that body,-the civil and
the sacerdotal. The Pope united the imperial
diadem with the mitre. He grasped the sword
of the Cresars together with the keys of St
Peter. \Ve may adduce the bull of Boniface
the Eighth, commonly called Unain Sanctali1.
as affording a good commentary upon the sym-
bol of the two horns. This bull attributes to
the Church and the Pope two swords, the
spiritual and the temporal; the former to LE'
exercised by the Church, the latter for it; the
former by the sacerdotal, and the latter hy tlw
regal and military hand, but at the nod and
sufferance of the priest, according to the com-
mission given to J ercmiah,-" So I have this
day set thee over the nations and over the king-
doms, to root out, and to pull down, and to de-
stro):. and to throw down, to build, and to plant."
There are some who understand the two order.;.
THE TWO-l!OR~ED BEAST. 2~~;
of the Pope's clergy,-the regular ancl the
monastic,-as being intended by this symbol.
These were sufficiently distinct and sufficiently
powerful to answer to tho two horns. The beast
of the earth, then, was a pretended minister of
Christ; we say pretended, because, while he had
horns as a lamb, "he spake as a dragon." The
dragon is the symbol of Pagan Rome. The
Popes displayed all the lust, cruelty, ambition,
tyranny, of the Cresars. Uut it was in his speech
mainly that ho was to display tho characteristic.~
of the dragon, which clearly points to the cha-
racter of his teachings. The religion which the
hierarchy of Homo inculcated was paganism
very slightly disguised. The doctrine of the
Popes was the doctrine of devils.
" And he cxerciseth all the power of the first
beast before him," i. e. by delegation. The
clergy were Yested in the same powers as the
Pope. They could loose and bind ; they could
offer sacrifice for sins ; in short, perform every
ghostly function which the Pope could do, iu
virtue of powers received from him. They dis-
charged the fnnctions of both horns. By cc-
224 THE SEVE:\TH \'JAL.
clcsiastics mostly were the temporal affairs of
the ten kingdoms managed. And all this power
the second beast exercised in the way of being
::i.ccountable to the first, and for the purpose of
subserving his interests. Thus, it is ::i.dded,
"and causeth the earth, and them who dwell
therein, to worship the first beast, whose deadly
wound was healed." The Papal clergy were
the great preachers of passive obedience. 'fhey
bound the people neck and heel, and laid them
at the foot of the civil power. They were the
grand supporters both of secular and spiritu-
al despotism. Through their instrumentality
mainly was the world plunged into slavery, and
kept enslaved for so many ages. No human
power can prevent a people enlightened by re-
ligion from achieving their independence ; and
no human power can make a superstitious and
ignorant people other than slaves. 'Vhat ad-
vances might the world have made in the know-
ledge both of the principles of civil liberty and
of physical science, had it not been for these
men, who have been the grand obstacles to pro-
gre.ss of every kind ! The great discoveries in
THE TEN-HORNED BEAST. 225
physics and mechanics which have distinguished
our times would have been made years ago, and
much more numerous, beautiful, and useful ap-
plications of them would have been known at
this day, which are still to be found out. The.
laws by which nations are to be governed, com-
merce carried on, and the intercourse of States
with one another regulated, are only beginning
to be understoo~. And why only now? Be-
cause mind 'vas completely overborne by a set
of men who placed all virtue and wisdom in.
the maxim, that the world should worship the
beast.
" And he doeth great wonders." 'Vho has
not heard of the pretended miracles of the
Popish Church,-the palpable cheats, gross de-
lusions, and impudent falsehoods, which she
has practised in support of her authority ~
Transubstantiation alone, which her priests are
performing every day, were enough to confer
on that Church unrivalled pre-eminence as a.
wonder-worker. Nor are the wonders of the
beast sometimes of a very harmless kind :
" He maketh fire to come down from heaven
p
2:?6 THE SEVENTH VIAL.
on the earth in the sight of men." Has he
not arrogated to himself the power of wielding
at will the thunderbolts of God ? \Vhat
dreadful curses, with bell, book, and ca.ndle,
has he not pronounced on the persons, goods,
and souls of his victims ! These anathemas
struck terror into the hearts of the bravest,
and laid the mightiest monarchs prostrate in
the dust. No armies, no human might, could
avail the man against whom had been launch-
ed the thunders of the seven hills. The fire
of heaven could not ham been more instanta-
neous or more deadly. '\Vith this fire how
often has the Pope scathed whole nations at
once ! \Vhen the sentence of excommunica-
tion was thundered against a kingdom, what
wailing, despair, suffering, overspread it ! The
whole course of life was instantly arrested,
the churches were closed, the sacraments were
interdicted; andwhoever died while the excom-
munication was in force, his body lay unburied,
and his soul was cast out of paradise. " And
deceiveth them that dwell on the earth, by the
means of those miracles which he had power
THE TEN-HORNED BEAST. 227
to do in the sight of the beast." It was by
the help of these impostures that the clergy
kept up the authority of the Pope,-" saying
to them that dwell on the earth, that they
should make an image to the beast, which had
the wound by a sword, and did live." The
beast that received the wound was the old Ro-
man empire. From the Gothic sword did it
receive what seemed to be its death-blow; but
it lived again in the ten kingdoms, united and
governed by the Papacy. This last was a
faithful imitation of the former. Its head ar-
rogated more than the supremucy and extent
of dominion possessed by the Cmsurs; and its
religion was just a revival of paganism; so that
Papal Europe was but the image of Pagan
Europe. Nevertheless, the clergy wrought so
adroitly with their wonders, that they gained
the consent ofa blinded world, thut this imuge
should be set up, and held in universal venera-
tion.
" And he had power to give life unto the
image of the beast, that the image of the
boast should both speak, and cause that as
228 THE SEVENTH VIAL.
many as would not worship the image of the
beast should be killed." It was no dead paint-
ing: there was life in the image ; and tho
clergy breathed that life into it, in discharge
of their main function, which was, to proclaim
the supremacy and divinity of the Pope.
" That the image of the beast should both
spe:tk,"-speak in blasphemy against God, by
arrogating his titles and powers; and speak in
anathemas against the saints,-" them that
dwell in heaven,"-by denouncing all who
would not worship him, as heretics, and deli-
vering over their bodies to be burned. "And he
caused all, both small and great, rich and poor,
free and bond, to receive a mark in their right
hand, or in their foreheads ; and that no man
might buy or sell, save he that had the mark
or the name of the beast, or the number of
his name." It was customary in ancient times
for servants and soldiers to have imprinted on
their persons the mark of their master and
commander. The mark was sometimes a hie-
roglyphic, sometimes the capital letters of the
name, and sometimes the name in full. Papery,
THE TEN-HOR:-!ED BEAST. 229
too, required its supporters to wear its mark,
more or less conspicuously, if not in their
forehead, yet in their right hand. That mark
consisted in the profession of the Romish faith,
without which, Rome would not permit any
man to enjoy either natural or civil rights:
" no man might buy or sell, save he that had
the mark, or the name of the beast, or the
numbe1· of his name." From instances almost
innumerable we shall select only one. Pope
Martin the Fifth, in his bull issued soon after
the Council of Constance, enjoined the profes-
sors of the Catholic faith not to permit here-
tics to have houses in their districts, or enter
into contracts, or carry on commerce, or enjoy
the comforts of humanity with Christians.
This furnishes a striking point of resemblance
between the beast whose deadly wound was
healed, and the image of that beast,-betweeu
the dragon and the dragon's successor, which,
though it wore the lamb's skin, had the dra-
gon's voice; for we find an edict issued against
the primitive Christians by the pagan emperor
Diocletian, in precisely similar terms. Ac-
230 THE SEYENTH VIAL.
cording to that edict, " the Christians," says
Justin Martyr, " had not the power of buying
or selling anything, nor were they allowed the
liberty of drawing water itself, before they had
offered incense to detestable idols." \Ve might
go on in this way presenting the portraiture of
Popery, but many volumes would not suffice to
contain it, and a whole lifetime would not be
long enough to finish it.
THE 1260 DAYS. 231
THE COMMENCEMENT AND TERMINATION
OF THE 1260 DAYS.
WE now come to discuss the question of time.
There is a certain period fixed by God between
the birth and death of every man. The same
Providence, by an irresistible decree, has de-
termined the days of the Man of Sin. Between
his appearance above the dark flood, and his
descent into his burning grave, an interyal will
elapse of twelve hundred and sixty years. This
number occurs in the Apocalypse, in connection
with the existence of Antichrist, not less than
five times. The Gentiles were to tread the
holy city under foot forty and two months :
the witnesses were to prophesy, clothed in
sackcloth, a thousa,nd two hundred and three
score days. The woman fled into the wilder-
~32 THE SEVENTH VIAL.
ness, where she had a place prepared or God
for a thousand two hundred and three score
days ; and in the wilderness she was nourished
for a time, and times, and half a time. Power
was given unto the beast of the sea to continue
forty and two months. The period is variously
expressed in days, months, times, but its length
is the same in all,-twelve hundred and sixty
days, or years. The prophecy of Daniel, too,
limits the duration of Antichrist to the same
period,-a time, times, and the dividing of time.
Tims, as regards the length of the period, there
is no doubt. The Papacy cannot possibly sur·
vive its twelve hundred and sixtieth year, dated
from its rise. This is the hour of its doom,
beyond which neither craft nor power can pro·
long its existence: then it goeth into perdition.
The main point here, then, is to ascertain the
period of tho rise of the Papacy: twelve hun·
dred and sixty years added to that will give
the epoch of its fall. Of course its rise must
Le placed subsequent to the Gothic invasion ;
for out of that flood did the ten kingdoms
emerge. The ten kingdoms, as we have al·
THE 12GO DAYS. 233
ready stated, were completed by the opening
of the sixth century. \Ve arc not, therefore,
to look for the full deyeJopment of the Papacy
before that century, nor aro we to look for it
at any em yery much subsequent, as must be
evident from our former explanations, that tho
ten kingdoms of Europe, united and governed
by the Pope, their last and eighth liead, fonns
the beast of the abyss, whose continuance is
limited to forty-two months. Do we find any
strongly-marked epoch occurring soon after tho
commencement of this century in the history of
the ten kingdoms or of the Papacy? Do we
find any signal change in the constitution of
the first, or any signal enlargement or confir-
mation in the powers and claims of the second?
'\Ve do. About the year .530 we find a change
passing upon the ten Gothic kingdoms, which
made them, in fact, Roman kingdoms, and link-
ed them to the fourth monnrchy of Daniel, and
made them, in truth, but a continuation of that
Roman empire to which the invasion had given
a deadly wound. From A. D. 530 to A. D. 533,
Gibbon tells us, the Emperor Justinian pub-
234 THE SE\.ENTII \'IAL.
lished his immortal works, the CODE, the PAN-
DECTS, and the INSTITUTE~. These contained
a digest of the laws of the ancient Roman em-
pire, which henceforward became the law of the
ten kingdoms. Gibbon remarks that, by the
execution of this work, "Justinian, the Greek
emperor of Constantinople and the East, was
the legal successor of the Latian shepherd who
had planted a colony on the banks of the Tiber."
Much more, would we remark, was it true of
the ten kingdoms, which now began to be go-
verned by the laws of ancient Rome, and into
which the very spirit of Rome was thus infused,
that it had now become the legal successor of
that Latin kingdom which Romulus founded
on the banks of the Tiber. The promulgation
of the Justinian ConE seems to mark the epoch
of the full emergence of the ten-horned beast
above the Gothic flood : the ten kingdoms then
became the true lineal descendant of pagan
Rome, But what of the Papacy? \Vas there
about the same time any signal enlargement or
confirmation of the powers of the Pope ? It
was-just at this time that Justinian issued his
THE 1260 DAYS. 235
famous Decretal Epistle to the Pope, in which
he recognised him as the head of all holy
Churches,-not the head ofthe Churches of the
western empire only, but of those of the eas-
tern also. Roman Catholics themselves have
:tcknowledged this to be the first imperial re-
cognition of the absolute primacy of the Pope.
Then it was that the Pope assumed the blas-
phemous title of Christ's Vicar,-a character
which forms the basis of that authority which
the Pope claims over temporal sovereigns.
Christ is King of kings ; and were the Pope
reallyChrist's Vicar, he would be a king of kings
too. Thus, in the assumption of the title and
character of Christ's Vicar, the Antichrist was
revealed. It is remarkable that at the same
period we find a remarkable change taking
place, both in the constitution of the ten king-
doms, and in the character of their real head :
we find the former becoming Roman kingdoms,
and the latter Christ's Vicar, ·i.e. Antichrist.
From this period, then, we are disposed to da.tc
the commencement of the twelve hundred and
236 TI:IE SEVENTH VIAL.
sixty years, during which the witnesses pro-
phesied clothed in sackcloth.
Seventy years later we find another strongly
marked epoch in the history of the Papacy. Iu
A. D. 606, the Emperor Phocas confirmed by his
decree what Justinian had done, by constitut-
ing the Pope universal bishop, and requiring all
the Churches to acknowledge the Papal supre-
macy ; and in A. D. 608, Phocas gave Pope
Boniface the Pantheon, which, from being a
temple originally dedicated to all the Pagan
gods, was henceforward dedicated to the wor-
ship of the Virgin !lfary and all the martyrs.
It had been the high place of Pagan idolatry,
and now it became the high place of Antichris-
tian idolatry. 'Ve would request our readers
specially to mark these two stages in the rise
of the Papacy. They are Justinian's edict,
A. D. 533, and Phocas' edict, A.D. 606.
Others have traced yet a third stage in tho
rise of the Papacy,-the era of Charlemagne.
Charlemagne, king of France, was crowned
Emperor of the Romans, by Pope Leo, in A.D.
TIIE 1260 DAYS. 237
800. By the help of Charlemagne, the Pope's
temporal authority was enlarged and confirm-
ed; three of the ten kings whose territory ad-
joined the Roman see being abolished, and the
Pope being vested in their authority and their
territories,-thus fulfilling the prophecy of Da-
niel, that three of the horns should be plucked
up before the little horn.
From which of these three epochs are we to
date the commencement of the twelve hundred
and sixty years? The opinion entertained by
some that there may be a double, or perhaps
even a treble commencement of this period, is
very probable, and may turn out to be true.
It is countenanced by a prediction long since
fulfilled. The " seventy weeks" of Daniel de-
termined the length of the captivity in Baby-
lon. But there was at three several times a
carrying away; and, of course, the question
came to be, from which of these periods the
commencement of the seventy weeks should be
dated. It was found that as there were three
stages in the captivity, so there were three
corresponding stages in the return, with ex-
238 THE SEVEl\TH VIAL.
actly seventy weeks between each correspond-
ing stage. So, to the three stages in the rise
of the Papacy there may be three answering
stages in its downfall and total extinction. If
we date the commencement of the twelve hun-
dred and sixty years from the era of Justinian,
A.D. 533, we are brought down to 1793. If
we date from the era of Phocas, A.D. G06, we
:i.re brought down to 1866. And if we date
from the era of Charlemagne, A. D. 800, we can-
not look for the downfall of Popcry till 2060.
Let us examine these three epochs a little
more particularly, nnd see how they corre-
spond with the present state of the world and
of the Papacy. ·we feel satisfied that we are
warranted to make the era of Justinian the
primary commencement, at least, of the twelve
hundred and sixty years. At that epoch we
behold the ten kingdoms risen, governed Ly
Roman law, with Christ's Vicar placed in ar-
rogant and blasphemous supremacy over them.
If to that we are to add twelve hundred and
sixty years, we are brought down, as we have
&aid1 to 1793, the era of the French Revolu-
THE 1260 DAYS. 239
tion. How does that period correspond ? \Vas
there any similarity between the rise of the
' Papacy in 533 and its fall in 1793? A very
striking similarity. The code of Justinian
first recogi1ised the Pope's absolute ecclesias-
tical supremacy, which properly constitutes him
the Antichrist, and is the basis of all the power
he claims over temporal potentates. At the
French Revolution, the leading kingdom in
continental Europe disavowed and formally
abolished his supremacy : the clergy were declar·
ed totally independent of the see of Rome ; and
the choice of bishops was vested in the depart-
mental authorities. The manifold calamities
of which the Revolution was productive to the
Papacy we shall have a future occasion of stat-
ing: we only here farther remark, that the tre-
mendous blow then inflicted on Rome she has
somewhat repaired, but is very far from having
fully recovered. The second epoch,-that of
Phocas, A.D. 606,-brings us to 1866. All ad-
mit that the Pope was by this time vested in
the title and powers of Christ's Vicar. The
general consent on this point warrants the con-
240 TIIE SEVEXTH VIAL.
clusion, that at this era there was a fuller mani-
festation of Antichrist; that now, at least, he
was fully come; and that at the correspondi,ng
era of 1866 he will be fully and finally destroy-
ed. But though the Papal system·will then,
in all likelihood, be broken up and swept away,
remnants of Popery ma.y remain, and the full
glory of the millennium, consisting in the re-
storation of the Jcws, and the full conversion
of the Gentile world, may not be realized till
toward 2000,-forming a third period corre-
sponding to the era of Charlemagne.
Daniel speaks of two periods,-one of thirty,
:md the other of forty-five years, making
i:eventy-fivo years in all,-which are to be added
to the twcke hundred and sixty days. "And
from the time that the daily sacrifice shall bo
taken away, and the abomination that maketh
<lesolate set up, there sha.ll be·a. thousand two
hundred and ninety da.ys ;" which are just
thirty days added to the twelve hundred and
tJixty. Thirty years after the termination of
the twelve hundred and sixty years, we may
cx1:iect some event bearing with decided effect
THE 12GO DAYS. ~41
on the downfall of Antichrist. But a still
more blessed change may be expected forty-five
years after that again ; for it is added, " Blessed
is he that waiteth, and cometh to the thousand
three hundred and five-and-thirty days." If we
make the era of Justinian, A.D. 533, or rather
.'i30,-for he began the promulgation of his code
in 530,-the commencement of the twelve hun-
dred and sixty years, they will end in 1790,
and, adding thirty years to that epoch, we are
brought down to 1820, the era of the Greek
insurrection,-the pouring out of the sixth vial,
as we shall afterwards show; so that the waters
of the symbolic Euphrates might be dried up,
and preparation made for the catastrophe. In
another forty-five years, which brings us to
1865, according to Daniel, a blessed era shall
begin,-the millennium, most probably ushered
in by the complete destruction of Antichrist.
It is a remarkable coincidence, that in the rise
of Antichrist there were seventy-five years be-
tween his primary appearance at the era of
Justinian, and his secondary at the era of
Phocns ; and we find an era of corresponding
q
242 TUE SEVENTH VIAL.
fongth in his predicted downfall, extending from
the French Revolution to 1865, which most
probably marks the epoch of his consummat-
ed ruin, the interval being filled up with the
plagues of the consummation.
Ilnt there are some who maintain that tho
rise of the Papacy cannot be dated earlier than
A. D. 800, when the Pope became a temporal
sovereign, having, by the help of Charlemagne,
completed his conquest of three of the ten
princes, and incorporated their tenitories with
the ptttrimony of St Peter. Such base their
conclusion on the symbol employed in Daniel
to represent him,-the little horn, which, say
they, imports his temporal sovereignty; and
that therefore till he appeared as a horn, that
is, as a temporal sovereign, he could not be
said to be risen. It appears to us that such
confound the accidents with the essence of the
Papacy. "\\'e know not on what ground it is
asserted that a horn cannot symbolize an eccle-
siastical ruler, especially when the ecclesiasti-
cal authority is of so absolute and sweeping a
character as to involve the possession and ex-
THE 1260 DAYS. 243
ercise of temporal dominion, whether the per-
son vested in that ecclesiastical authority be
nominally the head of a temporal kingdom or
no. Tho following considerations, we think,
will be deemed satisfactory. First, the pre-
diction respecting the three horns that were to
be plucked up before the little horn, is not
given in the Apocalypse at all,-a circumstance
that satisfies us that great stress is not to be
placed upon it. Second, the plucking up of
the three horns is represented in Daniel as
subsequent to the rise of the little horn. The
words are,-" The other which came up, and
before whom three fell ;" " another shall rise
after them, and he shall be diverse from the
first ; and he shall subdue three kings." Thus
the symbol represents him as existing previous
to the subjugation of the three horns, and ex-
hibits their subjugation as his act. It follows
that Antichrist was a horn before he had :rny
temporal kingdom. Third, it is expressly said
that this horn was dirnrse from the others. To
what can this refer but to the fact, that while
they were secular rulers, he was an ecclesiasti-
244 THE SEVEN'TlI VfAL.
cal potentate. If the horn symbolizes him only
as a temporal prince, it could have been af-
firmed on no good ground that he was diverse'
from the others. Fourth, the temporal power
of the Pope springs out of his ecclesiastical
authority. His having a temporal kingdom
was, if we may so speak, a mere accident. It
was not that which gave him his temporal au-
thority : although he had never been sove-
reign of the Papal States, his temporal do-
minion would have been not the less unbound-
ed and supreme. It grew out of his claim as
Christ's Vicar; and though he had never had a
single soldier nor a single acre of territory, he
would, as the Vicar of Christ, have been su-
preme over the kings of the earth. It is this
claim that constitutes him the Antichrist,-a
claim that involves in it supreme dominion,
temporal as well as spiritual ; and to us it ap-
pears a matter of no moment at what time he
obtained his insignificant patrimony, seeing his
supreme dominion was neither in point of
theory nor in point of fact founded on tha£.
·The moment that the Bishop of Rome avowed
THE 1260 DAYS. 24.5.
himself the Vicar of Christ, and had that claim
acknowledged, the Antichrist was come : then
lrn had a character allowed him which placed
him above sovereigns, entitled him to dispose
of their crowns and kingdoms, and to press
into his serviee, when occasion required, the
revenues and armies of Europe. This claim,
we have already shown, was first admitted Ly
Justinian in 530, and more formally and fully
recognised by Phocas in 606. These seventy-
five years form a broad line, marking off the
era of the reign of Antichrist, and the twelve
hundred and sixty days of sackcloth to the
witnesses; and a ,line of equal breadth will
mark the termination of his reign, filled up by
two terrible catastrophes, the first of which we
have already seen; the last is most probably
opening upon us;-the former symbolized in the
Apocalypse by the Harvest, and the latter by
the Vintage.
There is another consideration which adds ·
great force to our conclusion,-a consideration
which is ably stated by Mr Elliot in his great
work. All the great lines of prophecy, how-
246 TllE SEVENTH VIAL.
ever remote the point whence they take their
rise in the past, converge to our era. In the
eighth chapter of Daniel's prophecy, we find
the longest prophetic number anywhere in the
Bible,-two thousand three hundred days,-
forming the limiting period of the defilement
of eastern Christendom by the Mahommedan
abomination : " Then I heard one saint speak-
ing, and another saint said unto that cf1rtain
saint which spake, How long shall be the
vision concerning the daily sacrifice, and the
transgression of desolation, to gi>e both the
1mnctuary and the host to be trodden under
foot? And he said unto me, Unto two thou-
sand and three hundred days ; then shall the
sanctuary be cleansed." No time is specified
from which the commencement of the two
thousand and three hundred days is to be
dated, and we arc left at liberty to select the
most marked epoch in the history of the power
by which the sanctuary was to be defiled.
Some commentators have dated it from the
year B. c. 165, when the temple was defiled by
Antiochus ; but there is no authority for this
THE 1260 DAYS. 247.
in the prophecy itself. There is more proba--
bility in the epoch fixed on by Mr Elliot,-that
of the acme of the Persian ram's conquering·
power, which was seen in the vision pushing
westward, and northward, and southward..
Counting from B. c. 480, when Xerxes made
his triumphant progress to inYade Greece, the
two thousand three hundred prophetic days
bring us down to A. D. 1820, the year of the
Greek insurrection, when Greek Christendom
began to be cleansed from the Turk and his
religion. Mr Elliot is not alone in his selec-
tion of this period ; and according to this cal-
culation, the termination of these days falls
within the noted seventy-five years assigned
by Daniel for the time of the consummation.
Again, it is highly probable that the seven
years' insanity and bestiality of Nebuchadnez-
zar were typical of the moral and political
madness with which the four monarchies, of
which he was the golden head, were to be
i;mitten. If so, and if we calculate from B. c.
727, when the Assyrians under Shalmaneser
first " came down like the wolf on the fold"
/
248 THE SEYENTH VIAL.
of Israel, we find the " seven times" of the
aberration of the great monarchies terminat-
ing about 1790. It is a striking fact, taken
in connection with this view of the matter,
that the French Revolution appears to have
brought to an end in Europe the war of
monarchs. The wars that may be waged
henceforward will be those of the people
against their monarchs. Yet again, the most
probable calculation of the world's chronology
makes the world's seventh millenary to begin
about seventy-five years after the epoch which
we have fixed on as that of the primary termi-
nation of the twelve hundred and sixty years.
It was an old J ewish opinion, and likewise an
early Christian belief, that after the year 6000,
dated from the creation, the world's Sabbath
would begin. ,ye are on the eve of this long-
anticipatecl Sabbath. It already begins to
dawn towards that great First Day of the
coming era of rest and blessedness. Thrice
welcome to a world which has been so long
desolated by the tempests of war, and en-
thralled by the fetters of superstition ! and
THE 1260 DAYS. 249
not less welcome to a Church which for so
many ages has worn only sackcloth ! Unless
the shadow on the dial of prophecy greatly
misleads us, that mighty consummation is at
hand.
250 Tll£ SEVENTH YIAI••
THR HARPERS OX :JIOU~T ZION.
As the night of his sernn last plagues closes
darkly around Antichrist, we behold the day
opening upon the Church. John had just been
shown a vision of the rise of the beast of the
a.byss,-his pride, ambition, blasphemy, un-
bounded cruelty, and tyranny. After these
had been symbolically detailed, one would have
expected the next scene to be the terrible ca-
tastrnphe of his overthrow. But no : when
the curtain rises, the view rests on a compara-
tively small but blessed company gathered with
the Lamb, and standing with their harps amid
the light of the :Mount Zion : " And I looked,
and lo! a Lamb stood on the Mount Zion, and
witllHim an hundred, forty, and four thousand,
THE HARPERS ON MOUNT ZION. 251
having his Father's name written in their fore-
heads." (Chap. xiv.)
'Vc saw this company before. Immediately
previous to the apostacy of Christendom, and
just as the beast, after which the whole world
was to wonder, save those whose names were
written in the Lamb's book of life, was about
to rise and begin his domination, we saw a cer-
tain number,-the precise number that now ap-
peared on Mount Zion with the Lamb,-select-
ed in Divine sovereignty, and sealed by God in
order that they might not be seduced by the
craft of the beast, nor destroyed by his power.
But where had they dwelt, and how had they
been preserved? 'When Antichrist revelled in
the wealth and dominion of the western world,
they found an asylum in the wilderness ; when
the Gentiles were treading under foot the outer
court, they ministered at the altar; and how
often did they there present the sacrifice of
their own lives! for as individuals they were
mortal, though as a sealed company they were
inviolable and immortal. But now, after being
so long hidden from view, they re-appear, an<l
THE SEVE~TII YIAL.
not one is lacking. The identical number seal-
ed at the commencement of the twelve hundred
and sixty years of sackcloth, is seen with the
Lamb on Mount Zion at the termination of
these years. "And I heard the number of
them which were sealed." The special atten-
tion of the Apocalyptist was called to the num-
ber, that he might afterwards be able to mark
the fact of their wonderful preservation : " I
heard the number of them which were sealed;
and there were sealed an hundred and forty
and four thousand." John could not but re-
cognise the same company, and admire their ,
completeness, notwithstanding the calamities
and apostacies that had been prevalent since
the epoch of their selection : " And I looked,
a.nd lo ! a Lamb stood on the Mount Zion, and
with him an hundred, forty, and four thousand,
having his Father's name written in their fore-
heads." To what occasion in the Church's his-
tory does this appearance refer? It is exc~ed­
ingly improbable that so important an epoch as
the Reformation would pass unnoticed in this
sympolical history. It had been referred to in
THE HARPERS ON MOUNT ZION. 253
the history of the witnesses under the symbol
of their resurrection ; but we would expect also
to meet it in the parallel prophecy of the beast.
The chronological point where we would na-
turally look for it is precisely that which this
vision of the hundred, forty, and four thousand
on Mount Zion occupies. Without hesitation,
therefore, we conclude that this vision symbo-
lizes the Refori:nation. The several parts of the
vision exactly agree with the various facts of
that great event. These we shall briefly note.
The company appeared on the Mount Zion,
-the symbol of the true Church, in opposition
to the city now trodden under foot of the Gen-
tiles; they appeared with the Lamb,-the true
priest, in opposition to the false prophet, after
which the world wondered ; they had his Fa-
ther's name written on their foreheads, i.e.
they made open profession of his truth. John
heard a voice from heaven, "as the voice of
many waters," symbolizing the nations that
embraced the reformed faith, (waters being
the symbol of nations)-Germany, Denmark,
Sweden, Holland, Geneva, England, Scot-
THE SEVENTH VIAL.
land. He heard, too, " as the voice of a great
thunder," the symbol of those mighty dispensa-
tions of Providence which attended and follow-
ed the Reformation. The wonderful unanimity
of sentiment and harmony of profession which
reigned among the Reformed Churches ate
brought finely before us in the symbol of" the
voice of harpers harping with their harps."
Scattered throughout several of the countries
of Europe, yet holding and expressing the same
views of truth, they resembled a confederated
eompany of harpers. And oven in our days of
division we still perpetuate the recollection of
that noble melody which flowed from tll.~ir well-
strnng harps, by the general use of the phrase,
the ltarmony of the reformed confessions.
"And they sung as it were a new song before
the throne, and before the four beasts, and the
elders." In the various places in Scripture in
which reference is made to a new song being
sung, we find that the occasion is some new
and signal deliverance,-a deliverance so great,
marvellous, and complete, as to take precedence
of all former deliverances, and supersede all
THE HARPERS ox MOUXT zro;-,. 255
former songs. Such was the song of :Moses at
the Red Sea; such was the song of Deborah
when Sisera was discomfited ; and such was
that of the captives when they escaped from
Babylon : " The ransomed of the Lord returned
and came unto Zion with singing." So the new
song sung by the hundred and forty and four
thousand who had escaped from mystic Baby-
lon is finely expressive of the wonder, grati-
tude, and joy of the reformers, on occasion of
their miraculous escape from the rage and
power of Antichrist. They were like them that
dream. Then was their mouth filled with laugh-
ter, and their tongue with singing. "]fat no
man could learn that song, save the hundred
and forty and four thousand, whicl~ were re-
deemed from the earth." They only who hacl
participated in the deliverance,-been redeemed
from the Papal earth,-could join in the song
of thanksgiving. Or if by that song be meant
the truth professed with such singular unani-
mity by the Reformed Churches, then none but
those who had been elected by God's grace, and
illuminated by his Spirit, could learn that song.
256 THE SEVENTH VIAL.
God had an "election" in the various countries
of Christendom ; and they only, from the era of
the Reformation downwards, have been able
to profess the truth as held by the Reformed
Church.
Several particulars of their life and character
are added. " They are virgins," which inti-
mates the care they would exercise to preservo
themselves, both in doctrine and practice, from
the pollution of the Romish idolatry. "These
are they which follow the Lamb whithersoever
He goeth,"-the symbol of their steadfastness,
self-denial, and patient endurance. Many and
grievous accusations would be preferred against
them : they would be regarded as rebels by the
civil authorities, and heretics by the ecclesiasti-
cal. Nevertheless they should stand acquitted
in the presence of Him whose judgment is ac-
cording to truth : " And in their mouth was
found no guile ; for they are without fault be-
fore the throne of God." To these elected and
sealed ones should attach the farther interest
of being the first fruits of refonned Christen-
doni. Like the sheaf presented of old in the
THE HARPERS OX ~lOU::\T ZION. 2:'57
Temple at the beginning of harvest, the Re-
formed Church was the first sheaf of that glori-
ous harvest yet to be gathered from all the
countries of Europe : " These were re<lecmed
from among men, being the first fruits unto
Goel and to the Lamb."
The great apostacy was now drawing to its
close, and by three grand epochs was the work
of God on earth to be revived, and the millen-
nial glory of the Church introduced. These
three distinct stages are exhibited under the
symbol of three successive angels seen by John
flying in the midst of heaven. To each of these
revivals in the Church there is a corresponding
epoch in the downfall of the Papacy. The first
is thus described :-"And I saw another angel
fly in the midst of heasen, having the everlast-
ing gospel to preach unto them that dwell on
the earth, and to every nation, and kindred,
and tongue, and people." 'J'his angel is the
symbol of a body of faithful preachers of the
gospel, which were to arise at the time referred
to in the various countries of the Roman earth.
'fo ascertain the epoch in question, we have
R
258 TUE SEYENTH YIAL.
only to inquire when was the first general pro-
mulgation of the truth in Europe after it hall
been suppressed by Antichrist? Undoubtedly
at the Reformation. And, what corroborates
this opinion is the fact, that the angel gave
warning of the danger of continuing in the
idolatry of Rome, and revealed to men the true
object of worship,-" Saying with a loud voice,
Fear God, and gire glory to him; for the hour
of his judgment is come ; and worship Him that
made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and the
fountains of waters:" the very call which the
Reformed preachers addressed to the Popish
idolators. The second angel, we apprehend,
marks the epoch of the termination of the
tweh·e hundred and sixty years. He proclaim-
ed the fall of Rome. "And there followed
another angel, saying, Babylon is fallen, is fal-
len, that great city, because she made all na-
tions drink of the wine of the wrath of her for-
nication." It is not the final, but begun fall of
Babylon that is here announced; for the se-
cond angel is followed by a third, who pro-
claims her consummated ruin. The reference
THE HARPERS O~ MOUNT ZION. ~59
here, we conceive, is to the tremendous blow
which the first French Revolution inflicted on
the Papacy, and from which there is no pro-
bability that it will ever recover. On the
minds of Protestants that dispensation pro·
<luced an impression that Popery was near its
fall, just as if an angel had cried it from heaven.
The third and Inst angel announces the com-
pleted overthrow of Babylon. This is plaiu.
from the fact, that the terms of the proclama-
tion are the same with those which in other
parts of the Apocalypse are employed to ex-
press the final and consummated doom of Anti-
ehrist,-a cup of unmixed wrath and torment,
with fire and brimstone, the smoke of which
ascendeth up for ever and ever. And the
third angel followed thorn, saying with a loud
\'Oice, " If any man worship the beast and his
image, and receive his mark in his forehead or
in his hand, tho same shall drink of the wino of
the wrath of God, which is poured out without
mixture into the cup of his indignation ; und
he shall be tormented with fire and' brimstone
in the presence of the holy angels, and in the
260 THE SEYE~Tll VIAL.
presence of the Lamb. And the smoke of their
torment ascendeth up for ever and ever ; and
they have no rest day nor night, who worship
the beast and his image, and whosoever rc-
ceirnth the mark of his name." Then follows
:in intimation, the import of which we take to
he, that now at least the period of suffering al-
lotted to the Church had terminated, and that
henceforward the saints should enjoy a special
blessedness. Has the third angel,-the her:i.hl
of Babylon's final doom,-yot appeared in hea-
ven~ \Ve cannot confidently affirm that he
has; neither are we prepared to maintain that
he has not. \Vhen we look to the Roman
earth, and contcmpbte the insurrections, mas-
sacres, intestine broils, and bloody wars, of
which it is at this moment the theatre,- whcn
we think of the fierce resentments and animo-
sities which have sprung up, and which every
hour is exascerbating, and which are now being
directed in their full force against the 111embe1·~
ofthat city whose capital is the seven hills,-wo
arc persuaded that we see the cup in the harnl
of.Babylon, the fires kindled amid which she is
THE HARPEl:S O~ MOUNT ZIO.i\". 261
to be consumed, and the smoke of her torment
already ascending into the skies.
It is not here only, but in other parts of the
Apocalypse, and also in Daniel, that we find
the three great epochs that will constitute "tho
time of the end" predicted. Daniel adds a
period of seventy-five years to the twelve lnm-
dred and sixty,-the commencement of that
period synchronizing, we conceive, with the
second angel, who announces the begun ruin of
Habylon, and its termination, with the third
angel, who proclaims Babylon's completed de-
struction. In chapter xviii. of the Apocalypse,
which contains a lengthened and detailed ac-
count of the overthrow of the Papacy, we find
that overthrow marked off into three periods.
The first is that of an angel, with whose glory
the eaL·th was lightened, and who " cried
mightily with a loud voice, saying, Babylon
the great is fallen, is fallen, and is become
the habitation of devils, and the hold of every
foul spirit, and a cage of every unclean and
hateful bird." This angel seems to correspond
with the em of the Reformers, whose preach-
2G.2 TJIF: SEYEXTII YJAL.
ing lightened Europe, and who exposed the
nbominations of Popery in almost the identical
words.of the angel. The next stage is that of
the mice which gave warning of the approach-
ing plagues of Babylon, and called on God's
people to flee out of her, which synchronizes,
we apprehend, with the French Revolution,
when her doom began to be inflicted. The last
is termed "a mighty angel :" power is his at-
tribute, for he shall finish what the other two
only commenced ; and accordingly the act he
performs strikingly symbolizes.the sudden, fear-
ful, and irretrievable ruin that shall then over-
take Rome. " And a mighty angel took up a
stone like a great millstone, and cast it into
the sea, saying, Thus with violence shall that
great city Babylon be thrown down, and shall
be found no more at all." There are yet other
two prefigurations in the Apocalypse of "the
time of the encl," fraught with more terrible
import than even those to which we have just
adverted,-the HARYEST and the VINTAGE.
The first, we are disposed to think, synchro-
nizes with the termination of the twelve hun-
THB HARPERS O~ :\lOT:NT ZIO~. 263
drcd and sixty days, ancl was formed of that
great event which marked that era, and which,
breaking out in unprecedented horror in France,
overspread Europe in a desolating war. The
last is yet to come; but probably it will fall out
so as to be completed before the termination
of the seventy.five supplementary years. The
intelligent reader can scarce fail to remark how
strikingly this accords with the manner of
Antichrist's destruction, as foretold by Paul, in
2 ThessaJonians, ii. 8 : " And then shall that
vVicked be revealed, whom the Lord shall con-
sume with the spirit of his mouth, and shall
destroy with the brightness of his coming,"-
consume gradually at the first, and destroy sud-
denly and fearfully at last.
It thus appears, that not in a single clay or
year, but by three mighty and progressive dis-
pensations, is Rome to be destroyed, and the
millennial glory of the Church established.
Rome must pass through long years of shame,
disgrace, humiliations, sufferings, and torment.
Awful horrors will crowd around the path that
leads down into her tomb. Dismissed she can-
THE SEYl•:!\Tll YL\L.
not be from this earthly scene, till the world
resound with her woes, as once it resounded
with her crimes. The history of the past is
filled with the record of her grandeur, and the
history of the future must be filled with that of
her disgrace. Most equitable and just, surely,
is the sentence which has been passed upon
her,-" How much she hath glorified herself,
and lived deliciously, so much torment and sor-
row give her." The justice that pronounced
this sentence will infallibly execute it. And as
the gloom deepens around the one, the glory of
the other shall shine forth, waxing brighter
and brighter, like the day. In this, as in every
thiug else, God has provided for the full dis-
play of his own wisdom, the ample vindication
of his !'aints, and the signal punishment of his
foes.
THE SEVENTH TRUMPET. 265
THE SEYEN1'H TRUMPET.
THE dark scene of Babylon's overthrow now
opens to our view, not merely in the symbol"
of the Apocalypse, but not improbably also in
:the astounding events of our times,-a conside-
ration fitted, surely, to produce that solemn and
devout spirit which eminently becomes an in-
quiry like the present. The commencement
of the dreadful catastrophe is notified to the
world by the trumpet of the seventh angel.
The first question here is, "Then did this angel
sound? 'Ve tlerirn material aid in determi11-
ing this point from an intimation immediately
preceding that of the angel's sounding. "The
second woe is past ; and, behold, the third woe
cometh quickly." The second woe was thP
Turkish imasion. The capture of Constanti-
~66 THE SEYE~TH VIAL.
noplo in H53 formed the acme of that power.
\Ve cannot surely make that date the end of
the Turkish woe ; for we find the Turks after-
wards becoming a woe to the western world.
The first check given to their arms was in 1673,
by John Sobieski, before the walls of Vienna.
This is the earliest date we can assign to the
passing away of the second woe ; but even this
ttppears to be too early ; for the form of speech
here employed intimates not merely that the
woe had begun to decline, but that it was past ;
and we think, with Mr Elliot, that 1774, in
which year the Turks, after sustaining repeated
defeats by the allied forces of Russia and Aus-
tria, signed a peace, the terms or' which were
dictated by tho conquerors, is the true period
when the woe had passed. Before 1774, then,
the seventh trumpet, which forms the third
woe, could not be sounded. But it must have
been sounded soon after, for the third woe was
to follow quickly on the passing away of the
sGCond. The 1'ext great epoch of calamities
that opened on tho world followed the exhaus-
tion of the Turkish woe at tho distance of only
THE SE\'EKTH TRt:JIIPET. 267
fifteen years,-the French Revolution. Beyond
that event,-I i90,-we are not disposed to de-
fer the sounding of the seventh angel ; and we
cannot fix it earlier. This makes the sounding
of that angel synchronize with what Daniel de~
signates "the time of the end," and also with
the termination of the twelve hundred and
sixty years ; and the appearance of the angel
with the cry of Babylon's falling.
The sounding of the seventh trumpet was in-
stantly followed by great voices in heaven, an-
nouncing the conversion of the kingdoms, the
wrath of the nations, the time of the dead
that they should be judged, the opening of
the temple of God in heaven, accompanied by
lightnings, and voices, and thunderings, and an
earthquake, and great hail. These symbols we
can only briefly indicate, not illustrate. The
voices which spoke in heaven announced, as the
first consequence of the sounding of the trum-
pet, the conversion of the kingdoms, i. e. of the
Roman earth. " The kingdoms ofthis world are
become the kingdoms of our Lord, and of his
Christ." This foretells a radical change as
:!68 THE SEYE:-ITU VIAL.
awaiting the kingdoms of Europe,-a change as
great as that which passed on Nebuchadnezzar,
when, at the end of the days, his understanding
returned, and he lifted up his eyes to hmwen,
and blessed the Most High. Like their proto-
type, these kingdoms have long been smitten
with the mad rage and ferocious cruelty of the
wild boast; but at the end of the days their
reason shall return, and they shall praise and
honour Him that fo·eth for ever. 'rhe Roman
element which Justinian breathed into them
shall become ext.inct ; new principles shall
guide their policy, even those of the \\"ord of
God ; their wealth and power shall be devoted
to higher objects,-the true happiness of their
1mbjects; and whereas they have been the bul-
warks and fences of superstition, they shall
come to account it their glory to subselTe the
interests of God. But in order that this tran:;:-
formation may be wrought upon them, they
must first, as indicated in Daniel's vision of
the image, be ground to powder.
"And the nations were angry." This im-
plies, that at the period of the seventh angel,
THE SE\"ENTH TRUMPET. 269
t.hc nations of the Roman world should become
exceedingly exasperated. It forebodes an era
of turbulence and fierce contention. The ob-
ject of their rage is not stated. Let us observe
that it is the nations that are angry, not the
beast. His \\Tath has now been changed into
terror and despair: " And thy wrath is come,
n,nd the time of the dead that they should be
judged." 'Vho the dead are, and the design
for which they are now judged, we gather from
the next clause,-" And that thou shouldest
give reward unto thy servants the prophets,
and to the saints, and them that fear thy name,
ismall and great; and shouldest destroy them
who destroy the earth." It is some grand and
public vindication of the martyrs slain in for-
mer ages that is here foretold. They had thiR
«lay in their eye when they were slain; and
from the tribunals where they were condemn-
ed, from the fires, and scaffolds, and dungeons,
where they perished, they appealed to the judg-
ment of this day; and when it comes, the event..<J
of Providence Rhall make it as clear to the world
as if the great Judge himself were to erect
270 THE l::IEYEXTH YIAL.
his tribunal on the earth, that their cause was
just, and that they perished fighting for liberty
and truth. In the triumph of their cause on
that day, and the honour to which their me-
mories shall then be raised, God shall give re-
ward unto his servants the prophets, and to
his saints, and to those of them especially who
lived during the twelve hundred and sixty days
of the domination of Antichrist, and were called
to prophesy clothed in sackcloth.
" And the temple of God was opened in
heaven, and there was seen in his temple the
ark of his testament,"-the symbol of the par-
tial enlargement of the Protestant Church, and
the readier access now afforded to the men of
the Roman earth to the Dible. Contemporane-
ously with the French Revolution, or immedi-
ately subsequent, there was a signal revival of
the evangelic and missionary spirit in Britain.
Numerous societies were formed for the spread
of the gospel and the circulation of the Scrip-
tures. .Missions were set on foot to alnwst all
parts ofthe world,-the \Vest Indies, the South
Sea Islands, Africa, Australia, Greenland. The
THE SE\'ENTH TRUilIPET. ~71
evangelization of India was a work not too
mighty to be undertaken. The Jews were vi-
sited ; and even tho benighted and idolatrous
Churches of Eastern and \Vestern Christendom
were not neglected. The French Revolution
opened great part of Europe to the preaching
of the gospel. Thus the temple was opened ;
and the ark of the testament,-the Bible and
gospel,-which Popery had veiled, was anew
discovered to the Roman nations. But this
statement must be taken in connection with
another most important intimation, in the encl
of chapter xv., respecting the temple now open:
" And the temple was filled with smoke from
the glory of God, and from his power ; and no
man was able to enter into the temple till the
seven plagues of the seven angels were fulfilled."
God was present on the scene as an avenging
God, punishing the Popish nations for the blood
they had shed and the idolatries they had com-
mitted,-the smoke from the glory of God, and
from his power, that filled the temple ; and till
He had vindicated his holiness by the infliction
ofthese awful plagues, no man was able to enter
272 THE SEYEXTIJ \"!AL.
into the temple. Nevertheless, all the while the
storm was raging, it stood open, revealing, as it
were, to the nations, the sanctuary of safety, and
the temple of worship, where they should ulti-
mately be gathered. Since evangelic agen-
cies began to be employed on the Continent of
Europe, there have been individual conversions
not a few ; but there has been no general or na-
tional evangelization ; nor are we to expect that
there will be, till the judgment of the seventh
vial is ended. France, Austria., and the other
Popish countries continue nominally Popish to
this hour. This has often occasioned great dis-
couragement to the friends of truth; but when
they think that this is precisely what was fore-
told, the result ought to confirm their faith in
the Divine "\Vorcl, and stimulate to greater ex-
ertions in spreading it. The labours of the
missionary are not in vain, though not followed
by immediate fruit. After the "lightnings, and
thunderings, and great hail" of the vials, will
come the "tender rain" of the Spirit; and then
the seed he is now sowing shall spring up.
This is another circumstance that tends to sa.-
TUE SEVEXTH TRli:.'IIPET. 273
tisfy us that we are right i11 fixing the sounding
of the seventh angel at the era of the French
Revolution. Those who defer the pouring out
of the seventh vial and the downfall of Popery
till more than two hundred years from the pre-
sent time, must defer likewise the conversion
of the continental nations till the same period.
Tiut when we think of the numerous evangelic
agencies now at work, and the zen,l, ability, and
devotedness with which they are prosecuted,
and will continue to be prosecuted,-for the
temple remains open in the symbolic represen-
tation till the vials have been all expended,-
we cn.nnot think that for two hundred years to
come these efforts are to be without result. It
is not the manner of God to withhold so long
his blessing from the labours of his servants,
honestly, zealously, and prayerfully carried on.
The terrible convulsions, revolutions, and
wars which were to follow the sounding of the
seventh trumpet are symbolized in the vision
by " lightnings, and voices, and thunderings,
and an earthquake, and great hail." The Arc
de Triomphe at Paris, which forms the approach
s
THE 8E\'E~Tll YL\J..
to the city on the west, is inscriLed all over
with the great Lattle-fields of Napoleon. No
nation but the French could show so long a list
of Yictories gained in so short a space. These
are the lightnings, thunderings, earthquake,
and hail of the seventh trumpet. This arch.
with its record, will descend to future agei;, :111
impressi\'e monument of the fulfilment of thc
prophecy.
TUE FlR.':iT FlVE VIAU>. 27.5
THE FinST FIYE VIALS.
As the opening of the seventh seal introduced
the seven trumpets, so the sounding of the
:seventh trumpet introduces the seven vials.
The particulars we have noted above form the
general characteristics of that trumpet, and
they strikingly agree with the historical facts of
the French Revolution, the full details ofwhiclt
arc given under the vials: "And I saw another
sign in heayen, great and nmrvcllons,-seven
angels, having the seven last plagues ; for iu
them is filled up the wrath of God." These
great dispensations are beautifully personified,
and are seen attired as priests : " And the
seYen angels came out of the temple, having
the seven plagues, clothed in pure and whito.
linen, _
and lnt.ving their breasts girded with
276 THE SEYEi\'TII YIAL.
gol<lcn girdles,"-denoting the purity and holi-
ness of these events, as proceeding from God.
The vials of wrath are represented as being put
into the hands of the angels by one of the
four living creatures. By the living creatures
is symbolized, we have said, the gospel ministry.
\ Vhy is tlrnir agency here employed ~ It was
not they who gave the commission to the agents
of Babylon's destruction; nor was it at their
instigation they undertook their work ; but
fO clearly did they perceive their character as
God's commissioned agents, so fully did they ac-
'}niesce in the result of their work, and so great
care did they take to make it known to the
Church and the world that God was now pour-
ing out the vials of his wrath on Antichrist,
that it was, in a sort, as if the ministry had put
these vials into the hands of the angels. Such,
at least, may be the explanation of the symbol;
for there is here no definite rule according to
which we might frame our interpretation. These
seven ministers in white vestments and golden
girdles await tho Divine behest. A great voice
out of the temple thus addresses them:-" Go
THE FIRST FIVE \"JALS. 277
your ways, and pour out the vials of the wrath
of God upon the earth." The first six vials we
shall explain no farther than may_
be absolutely
requisite for introducing ourselves to the great
catastrophe of the seventh, on which we mean
to fix attention.
Our scheme of interpretation of the vials is
somewhat different from that which has hither-
to been given; but we think it is more consis-
tent and complete. It makes the vials begin
at the very foundations of the Papal world,
and proceed regularly upward, till at last the
whole fabric is involved in ruin. The first stroke
falls upon its individual men; the next upon its
nations ; the next upon its monarchies ; then
its great centralizing and governing head, the
Popedom, is smitten ; and the last and finish-
ing vial is poured into its air, thus wrapping
the entire Papal universe in ruin. Like the
flood, these waters of wrath cover first the level
grounds and the low valleys of the Romish
earth ; next, the little hills are submerged ; but,
the waters continuing to rise, the proudest of
its mountains are in due time overwhelmed.
278 'l'IIE SEVENTH VIAL.
'' And the first went and pomed ont his vial
upon the earth ; and there fell a noisome and
grievous sore upon the men which had the
mark of the beast, and upon them which wor-
i,.hipped his image." There can be little ques-
tion that this noisome and grievous sore sym-
bolizes the infidelity and atheism of the French
Rernlution. It is unnecessary here to state, that
tho infidel principles so industriously and insi-
lliously propagated by Voltaire and Rousseau,
after corrupting to an unprecedented extent
the national morals, found wnt at last in an
outbreak of blasphemy and crime so fearful,
that nothing like it is found in the history of
the world. " And the secoml angel poured
out his vial upon the sea, and it became as the
blood of a dead man ; and ernry living soul
1lied in the sea." This is commonly interpre-
ted of the naval wars between Great Britain
and France, which immediately followed the
Rcrnlution. 'Ve demur to this, because it
treats the " sea," not as a symbol, which it un-
doubtedly is, but as a literal term. The pe-
en.liar significancy of the symbol lies, we are
THE FIRST FI\'!'.: VL\LS. 279
disposed to think, in the phrase, " it became
as the blood of a dead man,"-stagnant and
p11tl'id. The symbolic se[l. into which this vial
was emptied lost that free play and motion on
which its purity and healthfulness depended.
One of the first effects of the French Revolu-
tion on the body politic throughout Europe
was to induce a fatal stagnancy. Its masses
began to be leavened with corrupt and an-
:irchical principles, altogether hostile to the
free and natural working of organized society.
The se.veral members of the European family
were disunited, and symptoms of dissolution
began to be apparent. Thus the blood of the
modern Roman empire became foul and stag-
nant as the blood of a dead man. " And the
third angel poured out his vial upon the rivers
:md fountains of waters, and they became
blood." Rivers and fountains symbolize na-
tions. The Popish nations of the Continent
were to be scourged, under this vial, with the
8word of war, wielded by the revolutionary
legions of France. It is very noticeable, that
the principal scenes ·of slaughter in these wars
280 THE SEVE~Tll YUL.
were the same as those that in former ages
had been the chief scenes of persecution, and
of the martyrdom of the saints. The armies
of Napoleon swept round the base of the Alps,
tracking their path in blood; and,' passing to
the Rhine and the Low Countries, where so
many martyrs had been slain, they there in-
flicted their ravages. The fearfully retribufo·e
character of the vial is solemnly indicated by
the song of the angel of the waters: " And I
heard the angel of the waters say, Thou art
righteous, 0 Lord, which art, and w~st, and
shalt be, because thou hast judged thus: for
they have shed the blood of saints and pro-
phet~; and thou hast given them blood to
drink, for they are worthy." To this song a
response was made from the altar, the symbol
of martyrdom: " And I heard another out of
the altar say, Even so, Lord God Almighty;
true and righteous are thy judgments."
" And the fourth angel poured out his vial
upon the sun ; and power was given unto him
to scorch men with fire." The common intcr-
pre~ation of this vial makes the sun the sym-
THE FIRST FIVE VIALS. 281
bol of but one of the kingdoms of the Popish
earth, namely, its leading kingdom, France.
\Ve demur to this, because we conceive that
the vials proceed on the principle of expansion,
not of contraction ; that is, that each succes-
sive vial has a wider sphere of infliction, up
to the last, which embraces the entire Papal
system. vVe are disposed to regard the
" sun" as indicating the general monarchy of
Europe. If nations were the rivers of the
Papal world, the combined monarchies of Eu-
rope were its sun; and if we look to the his-
tory of the event, we find that this was the
part of the Papal system on which the next
stroke of vengeance fell. In the years 180i
and J808 most of the monarchs of vVestern
Europe were either dethroned, or had their
power greatly abridged, by Napoleon. There
was not a single throne which escaped the
shock of the revolutionary wars : " And power
was given unto him to scorch men with fire."
Terrible calamities to the men of the Papal
earth followed the darkening of the Papal
sovereignties. A tremendous conflict ensued,
THE SEVENTH VIAL•
. of eight years' lluration, tho horrors of which it
i-; impossible to describe. Not to mention the
many bloody fields that wore fought during that
~pace, tho countries which became in succes-
:<ion the seat of war were almost depopulated,
-so great were the ravages of the conflicting
hosts, who lived by a system of plunder, who
b1lrned villages and towns, and slaughtered the
'inhabitants, so that in entire districts not a lm-
rnan being was to be seen; not even an animal,
except ravens feeding on corpses. Thus, "power
"·as given unto him to scorch men with fire;
anrl men were scorched with great heat, and
blasphemed the name of God, which hath
power over these plagues; and they repented
not, to girn Him glory." It is equally astonish-
ing and melancholy, that the nations on whom
these plagues fell remained totally insensible
to them in tho character of judgments; evinced
not the smallest sign of repentance for their
own i<lolatries and impieties, or the murders of
their fathers, who had shod the blood of the
mints; and plunged anew, as soon as these ca-
bmitios were at an end, into all the excesses of
THE FmST FI\'E nALS. ~83
their obscene atheism aml gross Popish super-
stition. They repented not, to give God glory.
" And the fifth angel poured out his vial
upon the seat of the beast, and his kingdom
was full of darkness; and they gnawed their
tongues for pain." The locality affected by
this vial is distinctly marked,-the seat or
throne of the beast ; in other words, the se\'en
hills. The last drops of that terrible tempest
which had burst over the thrones of Europe
fell upon the Vatican. After he had subject-
ed all the sovereigns of the \Vest to his autho-
rity, the next act of Napoleon was to :i.bolish
the Pope's temporal power, incorporate Rome
with the empire of France, and reduce the
Pope to a stipendiary of the State. This
he did in the two celebrated decrees which
he issued in 1809 from Schoenbrunn and Vi-
enna. This, as Elliot remarks, was but the
consummating act of a series of insults heaped
by the French on the Popish Church, from the
commencement of their Revolution. Here we
meet strong corroborative evidence that we
284 THE SEVENTH VIAL.
\Vere right in fixing the commencement of the
twelve hundred and sixty years at the promul-
gation of Justinian's Code in A. D. 530, which
gave a legal existence to the Papacy, and laid
the foundation for its future wealth, power,
and grandeur. Precisely twelve hundred and
sixty years after, we find that spoiling of her
wealth 0
and power begin, which had been fore-
told by Daniel as " the taking away of domi-
nion from it, to consume and to destroy it unto
the end." Elliot has condensed into a single
paragraph the various acts of spoliation then
committed upon the Papal Church. " One of
the first measures of the Assembly," says he,
" was to abolish tithes, establishing an insuffi-
cient rent-charge on the State in lieu of them;
a second, at one fell swoop to sever from the
Church, and appropriate as national property,
all ecclesiastical lands throughout the king-
dom,-lands, let it be obsened, which had
been regarded eyer before as not French pro-
perty only, but that of the Romish Church,
and as needing, therefore, the Pope's sanction
TlIE FIRST FffE VIALS. 285
to its alienation. Then followed the suppression
of all monastic houses in the kingdom, to the
number of four thousand; and in regard of the
clergy, already made pensioners of the State,
the substitution of popular election, for institu-
tion after the Papal Concordat; and the re-
quirement from each of them, on pain of for-
feiture of the pension, of a solemn abjuration
of all allegiance to the Pope. And then, in
1793, the decree issued for the abolition ofthe
Christian (or rather Romish) religion in France,
whereupon the churches were many of them
razed to the ground ;· others left in partial
ruin ; and of the rest, shut against priests and
worshippers, the most sacred places defiled, the
treasures rifled, and the bells broken and cast
into cannon. So was the whole French eccle-
siastical establishment then destroyed. As to
the French clergy themselves, twenty-four thou-
sand were massacred, so as I have before stated,
with every the most horrid atrocity. The rest,
for the most part utterly beggared, found refuge
from the popular fury only by flight into other,
286 TlIE SEYE:\Tll YIAL.
and chiefly Protestant lands, bearing about
with them everywhere visible evidence that the
predicted hating, and tearing, and making
hare, of tho great whore of Babylon, had in-
deed begun. Begun in France, tho spoliation
of the harlot Church, and of its Papal patron
and head, spread quickly into the other coun-
tries of Christendom. A propagandist spirit,
in respect of this, as in respect of its other
principles, was one of the essential character-
istics of the Revolution ; and the tempests of
war gave it wings:'
Ilut the crowning act was reserved for 1809.
'fhe resistance which the Pope rnnturcd to
offer to Napoleon's views drew down upon him
the two decrees, to which we have alreadv re-
~ .
ferred, of Schoenbrunn and Yienna. These de-
crees lai<l the Pope's temporal authority pros-
trate in the dust, and reduced the Eternal City
to the rank of the second capital of the French
empire. As the ancientdynasties had by this time
been discrowned, and the thrones of the Roman
world, with the exception of Austria, which had
THE FIRST FIVE VIALS. 287
now become the ally of France, been filled with
the vassnls of Napoleon, the act of the Emperor,
by which the power of the Pope was mortally
wounded, and his treasures rifled, was not Na-
poleon's alone, but also that of all the nine
kings of the Roman earth (Britain having fallen
as a Papal power at the Reformation) who
were consenting thereto,- a striking fulfilment,
surely, of the prophecy that the ten horns of
the beast should hate the harlot Church, aIHl
make her desolate and naked, and ent her flesh,
and burn her with fire. Tims was the vial
poured ont upon the throne of the beast. The
Pope replied in an excommunication which he
fulminnted against the Emperor, and which wa;,:
receirnd only with ridicule ; but the impqtent
bitterness of this act of retaliation showed that
the prophecy had been fulfilled,-" And they
gnawed their tongues for pain." Still, no signs
of repentance and reformation were visible ;
neither the Popish nations nor the Popish
hierarchy abandoned their impieties and idola-
tries ; and thereforn they were scaled over, in
~88 THE SEVE:\'TH YL\L.
their impenitency, to the more awful judgment
of the seventh vial. They who inflicted these
calamities, and they who endured them, united
in blaspheming " the God of heaven, because of
their pains and their sores, and repented not of
their deeds:"
THE SIXTH VIAL AXD THE FROGS. ~89'
THE SIXTH YIAL AXD THE THREE FROGS.
"A~m the sixth angel poured out his vial upon
the great river Euphrates, and the water there-
of was dried up, that the way of the kings of
the East might be prepared." The sixth trum-
pet affected the same region of the earth as
the sixth vial,-that of the Euphrates,-by
which all admit the Turkish power to be sym-
bolized. Like a mighty flood issuing from the
region indicated, the Turks had owrflowecl and
desolated all eastern Christendom ; but at the
era of the sixth vial this flood was to recede.
This teaches us to turn to the East for the
scene of the next c:.tlmnity. It is remarkable
enough, that no sooner had the field of "\Vater-
loo gh•en pe::LCe to Europe, than troubles broke
out in the Turkish empire. In 1820 the Greeks
T
290 THE SEYE:\'TII YIAL.
raised the standard of revolt against the Porte,
and, after a struggle of eight years, succeeded
in fully establishing their independence. Thus
\YCre the waters of the Euphrates dried up
from Greece. Since the battle of Navarino in
1~28, when the Turkish navy was annihilatetl
by the allied fleet of ~nglan<l, France, and
Russia, one disaster after another has befallen
the Ottoman empire. In 1829 the principali-
ties of \Vallachia and Molchwia were wrested
from the Porte by Russia. In the same year
Algiers was taken by the French, and, from
being a proYince of Turkey, became a colony
of France. Next followed the great rebellion
of Mehemet Ali, \rho, though driven out of
Syria by the great powers of Europe, achieyed
for Egypt a real independence, though it still
owns a nominal sulJjection to the Porte. Since
1820, then, how base the waters of the sym-
bolic Euphrates been dried up ! They haYc
receded from Greece on the west, Algiers and
Egypt on the south, \\'allachia and l\Ioldavia
on the north. And if we look to the central
empire, in ,,-hat a state of decrepitude do \H.
'
THE SIXTH YIAL AXD THE FROGS. 2!) 1
find it !-a feeble go,·ernment, an exhausted
treasury, the provinces groaning under ·rapa-
cious pachas, and the population yearly dimi-
nishing under the influence of tyranny, famine,
and plague ; so that, in the memorable phrase
of Lamartine, " Turkey is dying out for want
of Turks." The sixth angel has poured out his
vial, and the waters of the great river Eu-
phrates are rapidly drying up.
There was a special end to be serYed by the
drying up of this river, which is here intimat-
ed : "And the water thereof was dried up, that
the way of the kings of [from] the East might
be prepared." All expositors of the Apoca-
lypse have been much a-t a loss to give a sa-
tisfactory and natural solution of this clause.
\Vho are these kings from the East ? How will
the drying up of the symbolic Euphrates pre-
}lare their way ? On what errand will they
travel westward? Various and contradictory
answers have been given to these questions.
\Ve would venture to submit a new solution.
The symbol is taken, we apprehend, from 'rhat
occurred at the siege of the literal Babylon.
292 THE SEYENTH VIAL.
The Euphrates was diverted from its clmnnel,
and the conquerors, who came from the East,
entered the dry bed of the river, and the city
was taken. l\Iystic Babylon is now on the
eve of being overthrown ; and the exhaustion
of the Turkish empire may open a passage
from the East,-from Greece, Egypt, Persia,
and Russia,-for the kings and armies whom
it may be the purpose of God to summon to
the scene of Babylon's destruction, partly to
aid in accomplishing it, and partly to share
in it. An intimation follows almost immedi-
ately, that.in the battle of that great day of
God Almighty, not only will the kings of the
Roman earth be present, but likewise the kings
of the whole world. It is probable that the
representatiyes of the four great monarchies,
so far as these are still on the earth, will be
assembled on that occasion, and fimilly destroy-
ed. Thus the monarch beheld in his dream,
that the iron, the clay, the brass, the silver,
and the gold, was broken to pieces together,
and became like the chaff of the summer
thrashing floors ; and the wind carried them
THE SIXTH YIAL AND THE FROGS. 293
away, that no place was found for them. But of
this we shall have occasion afterwards to speak.
During the pouring out of the sixth vial upon
the Euphrates, Europe will become the scene of
busy intrigue. 'fhe skies of the western world
are to clear up for a little space; the light-
nings and hail of the seventh trumpet will be
intermitted, and the quiet interval will be in-
tensely occupied by the agents of the dragon,
the beast, and the false prophet, \vho shall pro-
secute with incredible zeal and activity their
unconscious mission of bringing on the grand
catastrophe. "And I saw three unclean spirits,
like frogs, come out of the mouth of the dragon,
and out of tho mouth of the beast, and out of
the mouth of the false prophet. For they are
the spirits of devils, working miracles, which
go forth unto the kings of the earth and of the
whole world, to gather them to the battle ofthat
great day of God Almighty." 'Ve determine
the character of these three frogs, or spirits, by
tracing their origin. The first issues from the
mouth of the dragon, which is the old serpent
the devil. · This can be nothing else than in-
294 THE SEYENTII YIAL.
fidelity, the religion of Rome in its dragon
form, in conjunction with its usual concomi-
fants, democracy, and rebellion against all au-
thority, Divine and human. The next issues
from the mouth of the beast, i. e. the seven-
headed and ten-horned beast. The character-
istic principle of this beast, as distinguished
from that of the false prophet, is despotism.
The third and last spirit comes from the mouth
of the false prophet, and beyond question is
Popery. "\Ve have no hesitation, then, in con-
cluding, that the three principles that are to
burst into wide-spread and vehement action,
during the brief interval of quiet in "\Vestern
Europe, are infidelity, despotism, and Popery.
This marks conclusively, we think, our own
times as the period to which the prophecyhas re-
ference. It is plain that the advocates of these
principles were to propagate them, not by the
sword, but by loquacious talk; for they are sym-
bolized as frogs,-stingless frogs; a figure which
has been employed since the time of Cicero, who
applies it to the prating demagogues of his day,
to·designate the noisy advocates of demoraliz-
THE SIXTH VIAL AND THE FROGS. 295
ing principles. \Vho is so ignorant as need
to be told how rampant these three principles
are at this moment in every country in Europe~
No sooner had peace returned to the \Vest,
than Popery, with prodigious effort, set about
repairing the calamities of the vials. She ad-
rnnced her former blasphemous pretensions ;
intrigued in every court of Europe ; flattered
sovereigns ; pandered to the passions of the
people ; had her men of science for the learn-
ed ; her miracle-workers for the ignorant; sent
missionaries into every land ; affected liberality
in free states, and erected the Inquisition in
certain despotic ones. Thus did she labour to
recover her ancient dominion. The spirit of
despotism, too, rallied from the terrible blows
which the French Revolution had dealt it.
The former dynasties were restored, and, un-
taught by the bitter experience of the past,
began systematically to act on the principle of
enlarging the kingly prerogative, and curtailing
the popular privilege. France itself was no
exception. There this line of policy was pursu-
ed, both by the elder Bourbons and the house of
296 THE SEVENTH VIAL.
Orleans, who have borne sway since the Revo-
lution. An<l, as regards infidelity, there ne,·er
was an age since the Flood in which so great a
proportion of the human race were disbelievers.
'Vere the great apostles of infidelity, Yoltaire
und Rousseau, to look up from the dead, how
would they be astonished at the success of their
labours ! A whole continent converted! For
we affirm, without fear of contradiction, that
the vast proportion of the people of Europe at
this moment are atheists. Their whole charac-
ter, life, and creed, may be summed up in three
\rnrds : they fear nothing, worship nothing, and
believe in nothing. 'Vith what restless energy
has this spirit been propagating itself these
thirty years past ! Agencies innumerable has
it pressed into its senice : the journals and
novels of France, the poetry and philosophy
of Germany, the university chairs on the
Hhine, the academies and printing-presses of
the Helvetic towns,-all have been the vehi-
cles of conveying infidelity, under its various
forms of neology, socialism, communism, pan-
theism ; and the result that has been wrought
THE SIXTH YIAL AND THE FROGS. 297
out, especially on such a groundwork as the
Popish mummeries had been the means of creat-
ing, is not surprising. Thus have these sym-
bolic frogs covered Europe, penetrating every-
where, loading the air with their croakings,
and polluting the earth with their filth. But,
though individually insignificant and base, col-
lectively they have been the authors of a tre-
mendous catastrophe. In the execution of their
commission, they have gathered the kings of
the earth and of the whole world to the battle
of that great day of God Almighty. This is
the next terrible scene that opens before us.
On the very eve of battle a solemn warning
is tendered. "Behold, I come as a thief;" for
this event is to overtake the world with unpre-
cedented and startling suddenness. " Blessed
is he that watcheth and keepeth his garments,
lest he mtlk naked, and they see his shame."
This warning plainly imports, that immediately
before that great day, individuals and Churches
should be exposed to peculiar temptation to
forsake their principles, here symbolized by
their garments. The temptation will not arise
298 THE SE\'E)ITH YIAL.
from the persecution of force, but from the
Reduction of these three spirits. Do recent
events throw no light on this prediction 1 Has
not Puseyism solicited some to part with the
doctrine of Christ's atonement and interces-
sion? Has not Erastianism solicited others to
give up the headship of the Lord Jesus ? And
has not neology tempted others to make ship-
wreck of the faith altogether? A peculiar
blessedness will be his who watcheth and keep-
eth his garments.
\,
THE SEVEXTH YIAL. 299
THE SEVENTH VIAL.
\VE have contemplated the period of judgment
that passed over Europe, commencing on the
4th of l\fay 1-789, with the splendid ceremonial
of the assembling of the States General at the
palace of Versailles, and terminating on the
18th of June 1815, with the awful carnage of
the field of \Vater1oo. History has heen guilty
of an untruth, if another period can be found,
of the same length, in which so many dark woes
befell the human race. But when the period
of judgment came to an end, it was seen that,
though the world had suffered much, it had
learned nothing. " They blasphemed the God
of heaven because of their pains and their sores,
and repented not of their deeds." No sooner
had the deluge passed over, than the ancient
300 THE SEYEXTH VIAL.
landmarks began to be restored. " \Vhcre is
the promise of his coming r' said the men of
that time; and, concluding that all things
would go on as before, they began to make
provision accordingly. Absolutism set up the
thrones which the rernlutionary tempest had
OYerturned ; superstition purified the altars
which atheism had profaned; and infidelity,
unawed by the display which God had giYen of
his being and holiness in his judgments, began
again to vent its blasphemies, and propagate
its slmllow a~d impious dogmas. On the same
stage, the same three principles 'vhich had al-
ready convulsed Europe, and deluged it with
blood, anew began to act with increased ac-
tivity and energy. \Ve now behold the result,
-a catastrophe which, even the men of the
world admit, threatens to shake the globe to
its farthest extremities.
"And the seventh angel poured out his vial
into the air; and there came a great voice out
of the temple of heaven, from the throne, say-
ing, It is done. And there "·ere voices, and
thunders, and lightnings; and there was a great
THE SEVENTH VIAL. 301
earthquake, such as was not since men were
upon the earth, so mighty an earthquake, and
so great." The act of the angel was followed
by a great voice out of the temple of heaven,
from the throne, s:i,ying, It is done. The mys-
tery of Providence is finished :i,nd disclosed ;
and an end is put to the sufferings of the Church.
This symbol, we think, intimates that the dis-
pensn.tion, when it should occur, would proclaim
its own character and mission. The Papacy
would feel that the blow was a fin:i,l one, and
lose heart and spirit; while the Church would
see in it the harbinger of delivernnce, and hail
it with a shout of triumph.
Our readers will have gathered by this time,
that we are disposed to view the present wide-
spread revolutions of Europe as the commence-
ment of the pouring out of this vial. Let us
briefly recapitulate the evidence. In A. D. 530,
.Justinian promulgated his code, giving a legal
standing to the Papacy, and enacting persecut-
ing laws against the Church. This we have ven·
tured to fix on as the probable commencement
.of the twelve hundred and sixty years of pro·
THE SEYENTH VIAL.
phesying in sackcloth. "\Ve add twelve hundred
and sixty years to the era of Justinian, and are
brought down to 1790, the era of the French
Revolution. "'\Ve find the Revolution abrogat-
ing the Justinian code, alienating to State pur-
poses the Church's property, and declaring the
temporal power of the Pope to be finally abo-
lished. In these events we find what appears
to be the termination of the twelve hundred and
sixty years. From the commencement of the
vials at the Revolution, we have traced their
pouring out, one by one, on evidence which we
think will be considered tolerably satisfactory.
"'\Ve ham seen in the actual events, as in the
Apocalyptic symbols, each successive wave rise
higher and higher, till the throne of the beast
itself was overwhelmed. "'\Ve have next seen
in the history, as in the Apocalypse, the scene
shift to the East ; and in 1820, by the Greek
insurrection, the waters of the Euphrates begin
to be dried up. At this point we meet the ter-
mination of two of Daniel's chronological lines.
The first is that of his two thousand three hun-
dred days or years. Reckoning from the in-
THE SEYENTH VIAL. 303
vasion of Greece by Xerxes, to the insurrection
of the Greeks in 1820 against that power, line-
ally decended from Xerxes, which desolated
Greek Christendom, we find that there are ex·
actly two thousand three hundred years. To
the twelve hundred and sixty years Daniel adds
first a period of thirty, and after that a period
of forty-five years. The first thirty, we have
seen, brings us down to 1820, when eastern
Christendom began to be cleansed of the Ma-
hommedan desolation ; and its cleansing is now
so far advanced, that Protestant congregations
now enjoy a legal toleration in Turkey. The
second of Daniel's supplementary periods should
run out in 1865. It might be thought that the
seventh vial would not be poured out till that
year; but it would appear from Daniel, that it
must commence so as that all its plagues may
be finished by that time; for the prophet makes
that the commencing year of a blessed epoch:
" Blessed is he that waiteth, and cometh to
the thousand three hundred and five-and-thirty
days." Seventeen years,-the time from the
present date to 1865,-<loes not seem too long
304 THE SEVENTH VIAL.
for such revolutions and changes as those com-
prehended under the seventh vial. But, further,
we have seen the western world enjoy that
period of repose which it is plain from the pro-
phecy it should do,-:.t pe:.tce so lengthened
and profouncl as to have excited the astonish-
ment of statesmen. And, in the interv:.tl, we
have seen the three identical spirits symbolized
in the Apocalypse, commence an agitation in
point of energy and persistency exceeding any-
thing ever known before. And mainly, we
might say entirely, through their machinations,
while the world was saying Peace, and its wise
men could see no sign of coming convulsion, we
have seen a terrific storm all suddenly arise,
darkening the whole social and political horizon
of Europe, and, by its lightning-wars and its
earthquake-revolutions, shaking it from one ex-
tremity to another.
" And the seventh angel poured out his vial
into the air." The preceding vials had affect-
ed each a part of the antichristian system ; but
this falls with destructive force upon the whole
· of it. The first was poured upon its earth, the
TUE SEYENTH VIAL. 305
second upon its sea, and so on; but this is
poured into its air. The atmosphere encom-
passes the globe, and any derangement occur-
ring there is fatal to the whole earth ; so this
vial being poured into the air of the Papacy,
involved the entire system in ruin. Its earth,
sea, rivers, and firmament, were all smitten at
once ; and after a series of dreadful convul-
sions, its fabric was for ever dissolved. As re-
gards the symbol before us, we can be at no
loss to interpret it, seeing it has been adopted
into the forms of our ordinary discourse. vVe
daily speak of the social and political atmo-
sphere. Into the air was the seventh vial pour-
ed. The air is the region of electric storms :
accordingly, the pouring of the vial into it was
instantly followed by " voices, thunders, and
lightnings; and there was a great earthquake,
such as was not since men were upon the
earth, so mighty an earthquake and so great."
These are the usual Apocalyptic symbols of
tumults, insurrections, wars, and revolutions.
The great and universal changes introduced
by the earthquake are farther described by a
u
306 THE SEVENTH VIAL.
reference to tho islands and mountains, the
symbol of great and small monarchies : " And
-0rery island fled away, and the mountains were
not found." Contemporaneous with the shocks
by which the earth was moved to and fro, the
mountains overturned, and the islands sub-
merged, a great hail poured down from the fir-
mament. Hail is the emblem of northern war;
and this hail-storm was of unprecedented seve-
rity, every stone being about the weight of a ta-
lent. This tremendous infliction, however, does
not induce repentance ; for " men blasph_
emed
God because of the plague of the hail ; for the
plague thereof was exceeding great." Accord-
ingly the vial is consummated by a last and
awful judgment on the Papacy. In the earth-
quake, the great city was divided into three
parts, as not unusually happens to cities simi-
larly visited ; and the cities of the nations fell.
This was tho immediate precursor of the de-
struction of Antichrist ; for it is added, "And
great Babylon came in remembrance before
God, to give unto her the cup of the wine of the
.fierceness of his wrath."
THE SE\'ENTH VIAL. 307
\Ve are taught, then, to expect, at the period
referred to, some sudden and great derange-
ment of the political atmosphere of Europe,-
the consequence, most probably, of the action
of the three spirits, who will succeed in charg-
ing it, as it were, with the most vicious, disor-
ganizing, and antagonist elements which some
eyent will suddenly bring into fierce collision;
and in a single day, as it were, the whole of
Europe, so far, at least, as it was included in the
limits of Pagan and of Papal Rome, will burst
out in violent tumults and insurrections ; that
these will issue in a revolution of unprecedented
magnitu<le,-unprecedented both in the large-
ness of its sphere and the complete and radical
character of its changes. All former revolu-
tions have implied only a change from one form
of government to another; but this will involYe
the destruction of all government together.
\Vhen the Chaldean empire fell, it was succeed-
ed by the Medo-Persian; when that was re-
moved, it was replaced by the Macedonian;
and when the Macedonian came to an end, it
was followed by the Roman. But by what will
308 THE SEVE~TII YIAL.
the fall of the ten Roman kingdoms be succeed-
ed~ Ily the reign of anarchy, for a short period
at least. The fall both of the little kingdoms
and the great monarchies of Europe is plainly
predicted in the Apocalyptic representation ;
for John saw that in the earthquake every
island fled away, and the mountains were not
found. This revolution will be followed, or,
more probably, accompanied, by a war of unex-
ampled severity and horrors. The hail of the
first trumpet was fulfilled in the descent of the
northern nations ; the hail of the seventh trum-
pet, in the terrible wars of the French Revolu-
tion; but here we have a hail-shower whose
violence is more terrific, and its effects more
destructive still; for every stone is about the
weight of a talent. This symbolic hail will fall
on Europe from some northern region,-for hail
is a northern product,-from France, or perhaps
Russia. Another accompaniment, or rather con-
sequence, of the earthquake, is the division of
the great city into three parts,-either the for-
mation of the European commonwealth, after
· its present kingdoms are broken up, into three
THE SEYENTH VIAL. 309
grand confederacies, or a threefold schism in
the Roman Catholic Church. This will be im-
mediately followed by the destruction of great
Babylon, whose doom is here intimated in terms
the partial obscurity of which imparts a ter-
rible emphasis to their meaning: " And great
Babylon came in remembrance before God, to
give unto her the cup of the wine of the fierce-
ness of his wrath." Let us compare that part
of the monarch's dream of the four kingdoms
which synchronizes with the prediction before
us. Nebuchadnezzar traced the image to its ten
toes,-the ten kingdoms. He saw the iron, the
clay, the brass, the silver, and the gold, broken
to pieces together, and become like the chaff of
the summer thrashing-floors; when all sudden-
ly the winds of heaven arose, and swept away
its very dust. The fourth kingdom was not suc-
ceeded by a fifth ; nor was it removed by the
sword of a foreign foe : it grew weak apace ;
its iron became mixed with clay,-the despotic
with the democratic element. At last it fell by
internal disorganization ; and the winds of po-
pular fury, bursting upon it in all their force,
310 THE SEYEKTH YIAL.
swept its fragments away, and effaced every
trace of its existence. Such is the catastrophe
which prophecy reveals as awaiting the ten Ro-
man kingdoms of modern Europe. The pro-
phecy of Daniel synchronizes with the seventh
vial, and throws light upon it. The symbols
of the two prophecies are different, but their
import is most obviously the same. Both por-
tend an entire change in the social and political
fabric of Europe,-the fall of its kingdoms, the
extinction of its dynasties, the alteration of its
laws and forms of government, the abolition of
its offices and dignities, the dissolution of its
armies, the destruction of all the symbols of its
authority, and the obliteration even of the ter-
ritorial boundaries of its States. Nothing short
of this can fulfil the figures of Daniel and the
symbols of the Apocalypse. In the one we not
only behold the image ground to powder, but
its last particles swept away by the tempest.
In the other we see the earthquake burying
cities, overthrowing mountains, and agitating
the waters of the ocean so as to submerge the
islands. Iffigures have any meaning, these must
THE SEVENTH VIAL. 311
import the total overthrow of all the powers
that now bear rule in Europe, and the utter
extinction of the last vestige of their authority.
It is a new creation which the world is to under-
go, and dreadful npheavings and convulsions
will usher it in.
"\Vhen we turn from the symbols of the Apo-
calypse to the astounding events now passing in
quick and startling succession across the stage
of Europe, we think we behold in the latter the
realization of the former ;-we think we hear
the roar of those mighty winds that are to sweep
away the fragments of the iron kingdom, and feel
the shocks of that great earthquake that is to
remove the mountains ofEuropean Governments.
If we are wrong, we ask, will the scene be more
dreadful when it does come, orwill it beara closer
resemblance to the prophecy? Here we have the
great voice from the temple saying, It is done,
in the impression, strong and deep, in which
men of all classes and all nations share, that a
new era is opening on the world. The states-
man, the Christian, the masses, all alike parti-
cipate in this feeling. That n.wful and unknown
312 TUE SEVENTH VIAL.
Future discloses itself to few, but it makes its
approach felt by all. It is a pillar :of cloud to
the world ; a pillar of fire to the Church. The
elements now dominant in society are altogether
diverse from those which at any former period
moulded its institutions or governed its affairs.
Thus, we lack the clue in our endeavours to ex-
plore the future. The conditions of the problem
are unascertained. Induction, analogy, and even
our past experience, avail us nothing. One thing
only do all feel and acknowledge,-that an un-
precedented change is approaching, and that
the future must be altogether different from the
past.
This is no vague and ungrounded impression,
like what has existed at some former stages of
the world's history, springing from the ferment
of men's minds, whose hopes were excited and
their imaginations dazzled by the novelty of
unwonted events. It is the legitimate conclu-
sion of calm reason. It rests on a basis of
well-ascertained facts. Its strength in different
minds is in proportion, not to the ignorance,
but to the knowledge which the person pos-
THE SEVE~TH VIAL. 313
sesses, of human society. Those who have the
best opportunities of making themselves ex-
tensively acquainted with the state of the
world, are those who entertain the impression
most deeply. Society has come to possess new
powers of thought, new principles of action,
new elements of change. 'Ve speak now more
particularly of that part of the world which is
held forth in the Apocalypse as the scene of
its catastrophes. In the first place, the foun-
dation of all obligation has been completely
razed in the minds of the inhabitants, gene-
rally speaking, of this portion of the world,
which, let us ever remember, is, and for the past
two thousand years has been, themost influential
portion of the world. The Pantheism which
in the end of the last century was confined to
the closets of the stndious,-whose three foci
were Verney, Lausanne, and Clarence,-is now
the vulgar creed of the European masses. God
to them is but a principle, not a person. They
feel that they have no relations to Him, are not
accountable to Him, and have neither good nor
evil to hope for from Him. It is plain that in
314 THE SEYENTH YIAL.
minds m which this creed is entertained, all
sense of obligation must be at an end ; and
with the sense of obligation extinct, on what
ground can authority longer maintain itself?
It has lost its fulcrum, and finds itself para-
lyzed. It is plain that men with such a creed
are prepared to abolish all authority, make
their own will their law, and their own interest
their end, the very first moment they may be-
come sufficiently numerous and powerful to re-
sist constituted order with impunity. Papery
has been the primary agent in bringing about
so fearful a state of matters. The mummeries
of her priests prepared men to listen to the
impieties of Voltaire. The dogmas of atheism
are not more shocking to reason than those of
the Papacy. And as on Popery mainly rests
the guilt, so on her mainly shall fall the doom.
But along with the new mental philosophy
came a new political philosophy,-new theories
of social life,~new opinions regarding the uses
and prerogatives of Government, the source of
power, and the extent of popular privileges.
The spread of these theories was powerfully
THE SEVEKTH YIAL. 315
aided by those means, of recent discovery and
invention, for the instantaneous diffusion of
knowledge,-thc daily journals, the clubs, de-
legates, university lectures, tracts, pamphlets,
volumes, sermons, songs. Machinery the most
varied and powerful was employed in the cause,
and wrought with untiring energy ; and con-
verts were made by hundreds and thousands.
'Vhile the two great apostles of infidelity were
sleeping in the catacombs of the Parthenon,
their disciples were traversing Europe, fight-
ing with the weapons their masters supplied,
battering down the strongholds of superstition,
and undermining the fabric of Government.
'Vhile the guardians of the old order of things
slept, the enemy was sowing his tares. Every
day recruited their numbers: numbers gave
them courage, and union gave them strength.
They saw that without them Governments were
weak; they 8aw, too, that Governments had
lost them ; and they stood prepared, on the
first provocation, to shiver into atoms, at one
mighty blow, the old powerless monarchical
316 THE SEVENTH VIAL.
fabrics, whose appearance was still 1mposmg,
but whose real strength was gone.
Such was the position of Europe six months
ago,-before the outbreak. That part of the
world had for ages been ruled by the twin
powers of superstition and force. The Conti-
nental nations had now completely emanci-
pated themselves from the restraints of the
first : infidelity had broken that yoke. Force
Qnly remained. It was the last bulwark; and
if that should give way, no human power could
prevent the waters breaking in. Of that order
Qf things :Metternich was the type. He stood
between the dynasties and the democracies,-
the last bulwark which guarded the ever-grow-
ing decrepitude of the one from the ever-wax-
ing strength of the other. And he understood
his position. Hence his memorable words,-
" After me the deluge." Such, we say, was the
position of Europe immediately before that un-
exampled outbreak, which has taken by sur-
prise those only who were unacquainted with
the true state of matters; and there \Yere none
THE SEVENTH VIAL. 317
that shared so deeplyin this dangerous ignorance
as those who had most at stake, and whose duty
it was to have taken measures ofprecaution. The
iwalanche had gathered, and hung trembling on
the mountain's brow; but, alas! the dwellers in
the plain beneath lived on in profound security,
little dreaming that a single breath might draw
down upon them the thundering ruin.
But what a dark prospect does this open for
the future ! Here is a state of society that never
existed before. It has found a new bond ofunion;
it avows new objects, and is armed with new
and tremendous powers for achieving these ob-
jects. How plain is it that the fate of all the
existing monarchies of Papal Europe is sealed !
There is no longer ground of any kind on which
their authority can be based, or their functions
carried on. All sense of obligation to them, as
the appointed conservators of order, is gone,
their subjects having lost all respect for the au-
thority of the Great Ruler; their armies frater-
nize with the people; and in these circmilstances,
their last prop havinggiven way, there appears
no possibility of saving them from destruction.
318 THE SEYEXTH YIAL.
Already we behold their power completely para-
lyzed ; and even where the throne is still left
standing, law is prostrate, and all the functions
of government are virtually executed by the
mob. But what is to take the place of those
empires that are now on the eve of dissolution~
If the Governments that already exist cannot
be maintained, where shall we find elements
for the re·construction of new ones ? The
causes so powerfully at work in society at this
moment are all of a disorganizing kind. 'Vhere
no ,·ight to exact obedience is acknowledged,
and no power to compel obedience exists, how
is anything bearing even a faint resemblance
to Government to be constructed? It is on
ANARCHY that Europe is at this moment drift-
ing. The image is in the act of being ground
to powder, and the mighty winds are rising in
their strength, to sweep from the face of the
earth its very particles. The shocks of the
great earthquake have begun, and the islands
disappear, and the mountains are moved out
of their place.
All attempts, whatever the country in which
THE SEYE~TH VIAL. 319
they are now making, to restore order and
erect new constitutions, haYe only one issue,
and that is, greater confusion. France "·as
able in three days to abolish her monarchy;
but how many ages will she require, judging
from her present rate of progress, to construct
her new republican edifice? Her people live
in the midst of perpetual alarms ; her factions
a,re daily growing in strength and fierceness ;
bloody conspiracies are breaking out, and drag-
ging her, ere she is aware, to the brink of a
unirnrsal massacre. Unhappy France! She
has denied the doctrine of an immortality ;
she has ridiculed the idea of hell ; and is there
no reason to fear that she is about to become
in her own person a proof of the doctrine
which she has ridiculed? Is there no reason
to fear that she is about to afford to the world
an awful demonstration, that whether or no
there is a hell hereafter, there may be a hell
here,-a hell upon the earth. Let the pas-
sions of her masses be unchained but a little
more, and France will be a pit of torment,-
<lne wide region of social burning and woe, set
320 THE SEVEXTII VIAL.
forth in the midst of Europe as a terrible sign
to its nations; suffering, like Sodom and Go-
morrah, the vengeance of fire.
If we turn to Germany, on the east of the
Rhine, we find that she has not cast away so
completely as her neighbour on the west of
that river, the principles of stability and unity.
The Mephistopheles spirit of negation does not
as yet possess her to the same degree. She
does not only destroy ; she constructs. The
wide scene of disorganization she is beginning
to exhibit is gilded by the golden rays of the
spirit of German poetry. For we cannot but
/
regard as the dream of the poet, rather than
the sober conception of the statesman, the pro-
ject she is now attempting to realize, of restor-
ing the old Germanic empire, surmounted by
the crown of the Cresars. The project rises be-
fore us, in these days of uncertainty and mis-
giving, in imposing splendour,-an Aladdin's
Castle,-a palace of the Sicilian Fairy Queen,-
built, too, we suspect, like hers, of sunshine and
sea-mist. \Vhile we write, the Deputies have
- assembled, to whom the grave task has been en·
THE SEVENTH VIAL. 321
trusted of framing that constitution which is to
combine into one great empire the vai·ious Ger-
manic States, and, by developing their clements
of greatness, and concentrating their energies,
make them once more a unity and power in
Europe,-a bulwark between the absolutism of
the East and the republicanism of the \Vest.
Are the men competent, or circumstances pro-
pitious ? Alas ! their first meeting was passed
in disorder. But though the men were of ap-
proved political sagacity and prudence, there
are insurmountable obstacles in their way.
Every step will create rival claims, and rouse
conflicting interests, the adjustment of which
were difficult at any time, but altogether im-
possible at present. ·who shall wear the im-
perial crown? \Vill the Emperor of Austria
permit it to pass from his brow ? Or will Frede-
rick "\Villiam of Prussia, who is to bring all his
States within the circle of the confederation,
yield to the more ancient claims of the house of
Hapsburg ? \Vhere shall the capital be fixed ?
\Vill Vienna and Berlin be content to descend
to tlrn second ra,nk, while Fmnkfort-on-the-
x
322 TUE SEVENTH VIAL.
Maine rises at once from provincial obscurity
into imperial splendour? How shall the inde-
pendence of the separate States be secured
consistently with the sovereignty of the whole?
'Will the anomaly offered by the composition of
the Second Chamber, according to which sove-
reign princes shall sit side by side with their
own subjects, form no obstruction? Such are
a few of the difficulties that stand in tho way.
They stamp the scheme with an empirical clm-
racter. Its realization at this moment,-when
the work of internal disorganization is going on
so rapidly,-when the waters of republicanism
are rising on the western frontier of Germany,
n.nd the tempests of war are gathering on her
northern and eastern borders,-is utterly hope-
less. Thus, all attempts at reconstruction end
only in failure. The great settlements ofEurope,
too, are disregarded. Its last treaty,-that of
Vienna,-has gone to the same bourne as the
treaties of Utrecht and 'Vestphalia. Dut other
bonds, more powerful to conserve society than
the treaties of princes, hav1l been given to the
winds,-the sense of obligation and the love of
THE SEVENTH YIAL. 323
order on the part of the people. Thus society
has lost its cement; there is0
no principle of
cohesion in it ; and therefore there is no vi-
sible limit to the changes the world is now un-
dergoing. There is no resting-place in sight.
So far as the eye can reach, there is nothing in
prospect but change coming after change, till
society shall have been resolved into its ulti-
mate elements.
'Vhen the seventh angel had poured out his
vial, and the great Yoice from the throne had
announced, It is done, there were
VOICES, THUNDERS, AND LIGRTNIKGS.
These are the symbols of popular commo-
tions, tumults, insurrections, and wars. Let
us again turn to passing events, as affording a
commentary more striking and exact than any
which the mere imagination can supply. How
plain is it that the present crisis has been
brought on by the action of the three prin-
ciples indicated in the prophecy,-Ahsolutism,
324 THE SEYENTH YIAL.
Infidel Democr~cy, and Popery ! Both the
long previous preparation and the ultimate out-
break have been their work. Since the close of
the last war, these three principles have been
fiercely struggling for the ascendancy in every
country of Europe. Indeed, the history of
Europe since 1815 is but the history of the
progress of these principles. The civil war in
Switzerland last autumn was occasioned by the
intrigues of these identical parties,-the com-
munists, the oligarchists, and the priests.
Equally easy is it to trace the operation of
these principles in the late terrible convulsion
in France. The policy of the Court, guided by
the Romish party, which aimed at restoring to
the Bourbon throne the full despotic sway wield-
ed before the first Revolution, came into collision
with the growing democracy of the country; and
in that collision the monarchy was lost. And
when the Revolution came, it found the whole
of Europe prepared. The change had been al-
ready wrought, and needed only such an event
as that of the 23d of February to reveal it.
Does any man imagine that these old dynasties
THE SEVENTH VIAL. 325
and empires could h:we been shattered in a day,
and changed like the scenes in a pantomime, if
all had not been ready beforehand? Surely
no. In these sudden and astonishing changes
we behold the mighty effects which have follow-
ed the mission of the three frogs.
Another striking coincidence is the fact
that the present convulsions have followed an
interval of profound quiet. It is plain from
the prophecy, that such an interval would pre-
cede the pouring out of the seventh vial. After
the calamities of the first five vials, and during
the pouring out of the sixth, the western world
was to enjoy repose. This is apparent from
the following considerations. The scene of the
sixth vial is the Euphrates; implying a re-
moval of judgment from the W est. The suc-
cessful execution of the mission of the frogs,
too, demanded the cessation of convulsions, and
especially those of war. Moreover, the wam-
ing, " Behold, I come as a thief," implies that
the effusion of the seventh vial should take the
world by surprise. Men should be dreaming
of a long continuance of prosperity and tran-
326 THE SEVE:\'TH YIAL.
quillity, when all suddenly the plagues of the
consummation should overtake them. How
confidently were we reckoning on a long peace
when these troubles broke out! And, so far as
human foresight could reach, the expectation
appeared to be well founded. The generation
had not yet passed away who had witnessed
the horrors of the last war, and, before plung-
ing into a new one, were likely to inquire whe-
ther they would reap more profit from it than
they had done from that which preceded it.
The warriors and statesmen were still alive who
had sworn to wreathe with myrtle the sword of
'Vaterloo. 'Ve possessed other and stronger
guarantees oftranquillity. Peace was multiply-
ing her trophies; commerce was enlarging her
field of operation; the intercourse of nations,
daiJy extending, was strengthening the feeling
of amity and the bonds of concord. The press
was forming a public opinion strongly adverse
to war. It is not many months since the pro-
found tranquillity of the western world, and the
probable continuance of that tranquillity, were
·proclaimed from the thrones ~f England and
THE SEVENTH VIAL. 327
France on almost the same clay. Yet all the'se
securities have been found of little avail. The
affairs of Europe have become complicated be-
yond the hope of human solution. There have
been tumults, insurrections, conflicts, all over
the Continent. War has broken out in several
of its countries, characterized by a peculiarly
fierce and sanguinary spirit. The shocks of
earthquake·revolution have followed each other
with astounding rapidity; and the firmament is
already darkened by the impending horrors ofa
European war,-the gathering of the symbolic
hail-storm which is to fall on men, every stone
about the weight of a talent.
It is farther remarkable, that the part of the
system affected is precisely that on which the
vial was to be poured,-the air, the political
and social atmosphere. The plagues of the
last and consummating vial were not to take
their rise from wars of conquest, like the
plagues of the preceding vials: they were to
spring immediately out of a sudden and awful
derangement of the political firmament. How
manifest is it that this is the origin of the trou-
;323 THE SEVEXTH VIAL.
bles m which Europe is at present involved !
Not from without have come the evils with
which all its countries are at this moment af-
flicted. They have arisen from within ; they
have had their birth in the vitiated state of
moral and political feeling. Though the ele-
ments of plague had been cast into the natural
atmosphere, the contagion could scarce hav('
spread more instantn,neously and universally.
On the 23d of F ebruary the revolution broke
out n,t Paris ; and before the 5th of March,
e,·ery country lying between the Atlantic and
the Vistula had, in a greater or less degree,
been revolutionized. Although the outbreak in
France had impregnated the whole atmosphere
of Europe with the principles of revolution, the
effect could not harn been more striking. The
contagion crossed the Alps, and gave additional
urgency to demands 'vhich had already begun
to be made by the Italian principalities for
constitutional rights. It passed the Po, and
penetrated the very stronghold of European
despotism. Metternich fled before it, leaving
the once powerful empire whose policy he
THE SEVENTH YIAL. 329
had so long guided, a prey to terrible cala-
mities. It descended the Rhine along its en-
tire course from the mountains of the Black
Forest, stirring its dukedoms and electorates
into tumult and insurrection. It struck east-
ward into the very heart of Germany, still
producing, wherever it came, the same commo-
tions,-voices, lightnings, and thunders. The
great kingdom of Prussia felt its shock, and
has well nigh been prostrated before it. Its
force was spent only when it had reached the
Russian frontier. Providence had said to it,
"Hitherto, but no farther;" and here, accord-
ingly, its progress was arrested. It will not
cross the Vistula ; for Russia forms no part of
the Romish earth, and Providence has resel'\'ed
this powerful kingdom, it would appear, for other
purposes. "\Ve see, then, the unprecedented ex-
tent of the movement. On almost the same day,
the various nations inhabiting from the hills of
Sicily to the shores of the Baltic have met, to
discuss the same grievances and urge the same
demands. They did not act by concert; nothing
had been arranged beforehand; none were more
330 TUE SEVENTH VIAL.
astonished at what was going on than the actors
themselves in these scenes. One mighty in-
fluence had moved the minds of an hundred na-
tions, as the mind of one man ; and all obeyed
a power which every one felt to be irresistible.
Although the angel had poured his vial of re-
volution literally into the air, could the result
have been more astonishing~
It is one leading excellency of the symbols of
the Apocalypse, that they sotruthfullydepict the
event, that they possess a self-evidencing or self-
inforpreting power. The event forcibly suggests
the symbol to the mind. Thus, in tracing the
history of the trumpets, as given by Gibbon in
his " Decline and Fall," how often do we find
the historian selecting the precise metaphors to
depict certain events, which had been previously
employed for the very some purpose in the Apo-
calypse. Some of these have been incidentally
alluded to in the course of our exposition; but
the instances are numerous. 'Ve find the same
fact occurringin the history ofthe vials, as given
by Sir 'Valter Scott, in his "Life of Napoleon."
Neither Gibbon nor Scott meant to illustrate
THE SEVEXTH VIAL. 331
the predictions of the Apocalypse; nor have we
reason to think that they borrowed their figures
from the symbols of that book, or were even
aware that these symbols had b~en applied to
the events about which they were occupied ;
but such is their truth to nature, that these
two great masters of metaphor could find no
imagery more appropriate for describing these
events than that very imagery which the Spirit
of God had previously employed in predicting
them. This undesigned but striking coinci-
<lence between the figures of history and the
symbols of prophecy is evidence of a peculiarly
satisfactory kind, that we are correct in our in-
terpretation of the trumpets and vials. But
every day is furnishing evidence of the same
kind, that we are correct also in our interpreta-
tion of the seventh vial. In the comments of
the daily journals we are constantly meeting the
symbols of the Apocalypse. The drama now in
progrei:;s far transcends the apprehension of
journalists, both in its character, and in the im-
portant issues it is destined to work out; but
the unconscious selection of the symbols o.f the
332 THE SE\'ENTH VIAL.
seventh vial to depict the events of our times
is only on that account the more striking and
yaluable. Thus we find the leading journal of
Europe, in an article published in its columns
in the end of March, tracing all the explosions
of our times to the very quarter from which we
are taught to expect the voices, .lightnings, and
thunders of the seventh vial. Speaking of Aus-
tria, it says,-" It is by no means unlikely that,
in the present state of national feeling in many
of the provinces, and in the electrical condition
of tl1e political atmospliere all over Europe, the
fall of the central authority, which has so long
contrived to neutralize their conflicting tenden-
cies, will be followed by a series of local explo-
. "
SIOnS.
The voices, thunders, and lightnings of this
vial were to be followed by a
G
HEAT EARTHQUAKE,
" Such as was not since men were upon the
earth, so mighty an earthquake, and so great:'
THE SEVENTH \!AL. 338
\Ve are thus taught to expect, at the era of the
seventh vial, greater changes than any that ever
passed upon the world. There was an earth·
quake when the sixth seal was opened,-the
fall of Paganism ; there was an earthquake
when the witnesses arose at the Reformation ;
there was a great earthquake when the seventh
trumpet was sounded,-the first rise of demo-
cracy in the old world ; but the earthquake of
the seventh vial is unequalled since men were
upon the earth. Other revolutions altered the
framework of government : this will, for a short
period at least, abolish it. Other revolutions
strongly affected society : this will change the
character of society. Here, again, we find that
passing events furnish incomparably the best
commentary on the prophecy. There never
was a revolution since the beginning of time
whose causes were so deep-seated as that now
in progress in Europe ; and the effects that are
sure to follow it will therefore be great and
<1urable beyond all former example. The up-
heavings with which the whole of the Continent
is agitated come from the very bottom of society.
334 THE SEYENTH YIAL.
The changes we ha\·e seen are not the produc-
tion of an agency that operates only on the
surface : they are the growth of feelings and
views with which the whole of European society
is leavened. In truth, the change has been
going on for a century. It was begun by the
infidel writers of France, who sowed industri-
ously the seeds which they knew would yield
mighty revolutions to the world, after they
should have gone to their graves. It next
passed into opinion. And now it has com-
pleted its third and great stage, and stands
before the world a fait accompli. History does
not furnish an example of such another revolu-
tion,-a revolution which has advanced gradu-
ally, yet irresistibly, from its first principles,-
which has moulded opinion for itself,-which
has never advanced a stage till it had first pre-
pared its ground,-which has required a cen-
tury for its growth, and, now that it is fully
developed, has changed the aspect of the world ;
for its effects cannot be confined to Europe, but
must extend to the farthest verge of civilization.
)Ve are accustomed to speak of three French
THE SEVENTH. VIAL. 335
revolutions; but, in truth, the great movement
in that country, though it has had three noted
manifestations, is but one, and is truly Euro-
pean in its character. This movement was
stopped for a while by the great war which
followed its first outbreak ; but no sooner was
that war at an end, tha,n the movement bega,n
again to progress. It is bearing the world on-
wa,rd to a new and untried era. Its course is
entirely in the hands of God; and lies as far be-
yond man's control, as does that gmnd move-
ment of the sun and planets which is every
hour advancing our system upon some un-
known point in space. It is beyond question
the great agent by which the fourth and last
monarchy of Daniel is to be broken in pieces.
And we see it executing its mission with irre-
sistible and uncontrolla,ble force,-abrogat-
ing the laws, abolishing the very forms and
symbols of authority, and grinding to powder
the framework of the iron kingdom of Rome;
prostrating thrones ; extinguishing dynasties ;
crushing altars and priesthoods; driving into
exile princes and nobles ; pouring contempt
THE SEVENTH VIAL.
upon the policy of statesmen and the strength
of armies ; rocking the chair of St Peter itself,
:wd filling its occupant with inconceivable grief,
perplexity, aud dismay ; and evoking against
the seven hills, whose thunders were wont to
shake the world, the mighty winds of popular
rage, which threaten every moment to sweep
in their fury, from the face of the earth, that
n,wful throne which has so long enslaved and
desolated it. '\Vho can doubt, although he
may be unable to tell how many shocks may
yet follow, or how long these awful convulsions
may continue, that this is the " mighty" and
"great" earthquake?
Let us take a brief survey of the changes
which this third and grand development of
revolution has already achieved. "\Ve look for
the governments, the laws, the armies, which
have borne sway in Europe for the past fifteen
hundred years, and which existed, apparently
in all their strength, when the current year
· opened, and find that they have been shivered
by a tremendous blow, and driven away as chaff
before the tempest. Ere the French Revolu-
THE SEVENTH VIAL. 337
tion was a month old, it had effected an en-
tire change upon the aspect of Europe. The
events of centuries were crowded into as many
days ; one astounding change followed another
with a rapidity which dazzled the imagination ;
and the occurrences of yesterday gave place, in
the astonishment of men, to that caused by the
more surprising intelligence of to-day. Defy-
ing the checks of power, and transcending the
anticipations of even the most sanguine, the
great movement wei:it on, gathering momentum
as it proceeded, and levelling to the dust all
the barriers of a venerable despotism. Let us
follow its course, and mark its changes. In
certain of the Italian principalities some po-
pular concessions had previously been made.
To these it communicated permanency, and
still farther enlarged them. It extorted reli-
gious freedom from the bigoted monarch of
Sardinia; it emancipated the duchies lying at
the base of the Alps,-Tuscany, Modena, Par-
ma; and lifted the long proscribed \Valden-
ses to an equality with their countrymen in
civil and religions rights; it excited the wealthy
y
338 THE SEYENTH VIAL.
prm·ince of Lombardy,-wh~ch, like lssachar
of old, seeing that rest was good and the land
pleasant, had couched down between the two
burdens of Rome and Austria,-to rebel
against at least the Jatter yoke; it gave a
new impulse to the war of independence in
Sicily; above all, it told Pius the Ninth that
he could no longer deal in sham reforms, and
no longer amuse his subjects with verbal con-
cessions, and constitutions on paper, but must
begin in good earnest the ~vork of reform, by
bestowing real and substantial privileges on
the Roman people. \ \'e may instance the
Neapolitan constitution as an example of thqse
granted by the chief native princes of Italy.
The King is vested in the executive power ;
but no act of his can have force unless coun-
tersigned by a Minister. There are two Cham-
bers,-one of Peers, and another of Deputiei;.
The members of the former are nominated for
life ; those of the latter are chosen for a term
of five years. The number of Deputies is in
the ratio of one for every forty thousand souls,
and they arc chosen by the citizens possessing a
THE SEVENTH VIAL. 339
certain amount ofincome. The Ministers ofthe
Crown are subject to impeachment before the
Chamber of Deputies, and to judgment by the
Peers. The citizens are declared equal before
the law; their dwellings are inviolable; and the
press is free. In the other States, the consti-
tution, in its political machinery, resembles the
Neapolitan. In Tuscany and Piedmont it is
more liberal, securing freedom of commerce
and toleration of all religions. But its great-
est achievement awaited it on the east of the
Po. Austria had been the key-stone in the
nrch of Continental despotism; and when Aus-
tria fell, the fabric of European feudalism be-
came a mass of crumbling ruin. The vast
change which the revolutionary spirit effected
on this country may be conceived of from the
single fact, not to dwell on other particulars,
that universal suffrage was immediately esta-
blished, and full liberty was given to all the
subjects of the empire to worship according to
their conscience ; and that, too, notwithstand-
ing that the power of the aristocracy, and the
wealth and pride of the Romish hierarchy, had
340 THE SEYENTH YIAL.
continued, up to the present time, to be far
greater in Austria than in any other country
of Europe. North of the Alps the effects of
the great Revolution were just as palpable as
on the south of these mountains. It awoke
the spirit of the Germans, long repressed, and
recalled the memory of their ancient liberties
and their past renown ; it darted a ray of
light between the dark clouds which have long
rested above the land of Huss ; it gave a free
government to priest-ridden Bavaria; it gave
constitutional privileges to the numerous duch-
ies that girdle the Black Forest, long enthral-
led by petty tyrants. In the electorates on
the Rhine it produced popular demands, which
were instantly followed by popular concessions.
In the great empire of Prussia, and in the
neighbouring kingdoms of Hanover and Sax-
ony, it made its power equally felt. In the
former kingdom, a momentary indecision of
the m~narch served only to render more ap-
parent the force of the movement. In Berlin
barricades arose, blood flowed, and the popu-
lace, triumphing over the throne, were able to
THE SEVENTH YIAL. 3H
dictate their own terms. Thus, in the short
space of a single month, it changed the co1idi-
tion of every country lying between the Straits
of Messina and the shores of the Baltic. It
created, in fact, a new Europe. It established
in all its countries, by concession at least, the
three great bulwarks of civil liberty, namely,
constitutional government, trial by jury, and
the right of public meeting. In the rear of its
political changes it brought likewise vast social
and moral meliorations. It rent asunder the
chains that bound the press ; it abolished tI1e
lines of custom-houses with which Europe was
crossed and recrossed in all directions; and it
swept away the restrictions employed to fetter
the truth; thus giving to the nations an m:-
restricted commerce, the free diffusion of know"
ledge, and liberty to proclaim the truth. It
may be some time before the people of Europe
are in a condition to profit from these altera-
tions, and it is even possible that new obstacles
may come in the room of those that have been
swept away; but it is scarce conceivable that
the restrictions on trade, literature, and reli-
342 THE SEVENTH VIAL.
gion, framed in a dark, ill-informed, and super-
stitious age, will ever again be generally re-
enacted.
For some weeks after the breaking out ofthe
Revolution there appeared ground to hope that
the Governments of Europe might be amended
without being destroyed. The changes de-
manded were constitutional in character, and
moderate in degree; they were prosecuted by
peaceable means, and conceded, in_almost every
instance, as soon as asked for. 1.Vhen all had
been granted that was sought, men believed that
farther demands would cease to be urged, and
that princes and people would unite in putting
to the test of actual working the new constitu-
tions. But this hope has not been realized. It
has been found impossible to stay the progress
of change. All attempts at the reconstruction
of order have been manifest failures. The hope
that authority and rule might be preserved must
now be given up. The Revolution has passed
the Rubicon; and the terrible fact stares us in
the face, that it is on anarchy that Europe at
this moment is drifting. \Ve speak not of
THE SEVENTH VIAL. 343.
the confusion and misrule into which its little
princedoms have fallen: its greatestmonarchies:
are breaking up; its oldest statesmen are non··
plussed; and its mightiest thrones are power-·
less. There is a moral decomposition going on
everywhere: authority is prostrate; laws are
violated with impunity; and from the Atlantia
to the Vistula kings are little better than cap-
tives, and the mob is the sovereign. In the
train of these political evils has come a host of
commercial and social mischiefs. The ordinary
business of life is to a great degree suspended,
-commerce ·paralyzed,-trade and manufac-
tures at a stand-still,-the exchequers wofully
impoverished,-the lower classes discontented,
and at war with those above them,-"-the upper
classes terrified, and without confidence in the
future,- the towns s'Yarming with barricade-
heroes, the country with rural marauders,-and
. the masses everywhere ripe for any mischief.
'Vhat a picture of dislocation and ruin does
France present ! Look at that once powerful
kingdom,-the eldest horn of the beast, and
one of the chief agents in the slaughter of the
344 THE SEVENTH \'L\L.
witnesses,-and see how God is ayenging the
blood of his saints, for the smoke of her tor-
ments is ascending up day and night. Her Go-
vernment is unable to guarantee safety of life
and property; her Assembly, instead of grap-
pling vigorously with the evils that surround it,
is torn by faction, and passes its time in inde-
corous and tumultuary debates. National bank-
ruptcy advances with rapid strides; the expen-
diture of the monarchy exceeded its income by
two-thirds of a million of francs; but the excess
of the Republic is not less than two millions
over its revenue. The citizens live amidst per-
petual alarms,-iras inter et tiniores,-and are
harassed by never-ceasing calls to military
duty. Fearful rumours and terrible threats
distract the minds of men, which are still far-
ther agitated by conspiracies, having avowedly
for their object the confiscation of all the pro-
perty in the kingdom, and the surrender of the
upper and middle classes into the hands of
the ruffians and malefactors which infest the
country. 'Ve know not, indeed, what can ar-
rest the progress of France towards such a ca-
THE SEVENTH VIAL. 345
tastrophe, unless a special interposition of Pro-
vidence.
Ifwe turn to Austria, we find a gigantic wreck
where this magnificent empire once stood. The
Emperor has fled to the Tyrol, whither he has
been followed by a frightened herd of arch-
dukes and nobles. The dying embers of Tyro-
lese loyalty have been unexpectedly fanned by
this Ill-ark of royal confidence; and it is just
possible that the zeal of these mountaineers
may bring upon the fallen empire the horrors
of a civil war. \Vhile we write, Vienna is filled
with barricades, and fresh concessions are de-
manded, which will most probably be yielded';
and the same work of confusion commenced in
Vienna which is now in progress in Paris. Aus-
tria, the successor of the Germanic Cresars, has
gathered under her eagle, men of every race,-
the industrious and enterprising Lombard, the
acute lllyrian, the stately Hungarian, the me-
ditative German, the persevering Bohemian,
the fiery Pole. She has drawn her 1·iches from
the flourishing trade of Lombardy, the waving
harvests of Galicia, the rich pastures of Bohe-
346 THE SEVENTH VIAL,
mia, :m<l the wealthy mines of Carinthia and
Hungary. But the fall of the central authority
has set loose all these various nations, and dried
up all these sources of wealth. The provinces
are breaking away from the empire ; and Aus-
tria now exhibits a chaos great in proportion to
her former grandeur.
In Italy disorganization has not proceeded
to the same length, only because its progress
meanwhile is arrested by the war with Austria;
but dissensions are rife throughout the Penin-
sula. A sanguinary war is raging on the Po,
brought on by the ambition of King Charles
Albert, who hopes that l\Iilan will place her
iron crown upon his head. The revolting mas-
sacre at Naples has broken up the ill-omened
league between the Pope, Albert of Sardinia,
and Ferdinand of Naples, and complicated still
farther the affairs of Italy. Rome itself has
become the scene of tumult. The Jesuits,
with their famous general Roothann, have been
expelled. • The cabinet has been purged of
ecclesiastics ; and though the Pope is still suf-
fered to hold the ra.nk and titles of Sovereign
THE SEVENTH VIAL. 347
of the Roman States, he has been completely
shorn of the sovereign power. He has had
the perplexing alternative proposed to him, of
drawing the sword against those whom he calls
his children, or abdicating the throne of the
Quirinal. "'IVere the kings to look up who
were compelled to bend their necks to the Gre-
gories and Hildebrands of the middle ages, how
would they grimly smile to see the foot of the
Roman mob upon the neck of Pius !
If we turn to German:r., the prostration of
authority and the decomposition of society are
as great almost as in France and Austria.
The King is distrusted ; tho Ministers are un-
popular; the constituent Assembly is distin-
guished only for its incapacity, and is miserably
inadequate for such a crisis as the present.
The laws of Prussia have been virtually repeal-
ed ; and the edicts that now govern the empire
are to be learnedfrom the inflammatory placards
that cover the streets. In Berlin the Ministers
have been obliged to open the arsenal, and dis-
tribute arms to the workmen, by whom they
may soon be employed against the very authority
348 THE SEVENTH YIAL.
that bestowed them. Commerce is stagnaut ;
and the resources of private wealth are daily
diminishing. Swarms of beggars infest the
towns, and enter dwellings to demand rather
than beg alms; and bands of ruffians traverse
the country, committing pillage and massacre,
and setting fire to the castles of the nobles
a.nd the seats of the landed proprietors. The
agents of revolution, or rather destruction, are
active and sleepless. .The youth of the uni-
versities and the orators of the clubs are con-
tinually inflaming the passions of the populace
by their communist doctrines. The same re-
ports reach us from every town and village of
Germany. The Germans speak of unity. It
is not the reign of unity that is commencing,
but that of total, consummate, and universal
disorganization. The shocks of the great
earthquake are continued ; the islands flee
away, and the mountains are not found.
We think, then, that we have evidence to
satisfy us that we are arrived at the breaking
up of the image,-the final dissolution and
complete removal of the ten kingdoms of the
THE SEVEXTH VIAL. 349
modern Roman world, foretold by Daniel. And
if, as is generally admitted, the present Euro-
pean Governments cannot be longer maintain-
ed, or rather restore<l,-for they are already
prostrate,-it is plain to demonstration that
the final doom of the Papacy is at hand. This
may be inferred "·ith certainty from the predic-
tions both of Daniel and of John. The fourth
monarchy was not succeeded by a fifth, but
by the kingdom set up by the God of heaven ;
which implies the fall, along with the fourth
monarchy, of all tyrannical Governments and
idolatrous Churches. But may not that mo-
narchy be prolonged under a different form of
government? Not a few expect Europe to be-
come republican. Others look for the forma-
tion of one or two great monarchies under
adequate military and political talent, which
the convulsion is to call forth. May not the
Papacy link itself on to the coming republic or
the coming monarchy, and so recover its as-
cendancy ? These anticipations receive no
countenance from facts. The moral elements
on which all Governments must be based do
350 THE SEVENTH VIAL.
not exist at present in Europe. The political
creed of its masses, as we have already said, is
communism, nnd their religious creed is athe-
ism ; and till the Continent has undergone a
vast moral change, we do seriously believe that
no Government of any so~·t, not even a republic,
can be carried on. 'Ve may appeal to France.
Her example shows that it is something much
beyond republicanism into which the western
world is sinking. But when we turn to pro-
phecy, we are certainly informedthat the present
Governments cannot be succeeded by others,-
that Europe cannot become a congeries of re-
publics. The image was smitten upon its ton
toes ; and its fragments, so far from becom-
ing re-united, became as the chaff of the sum-
mer thrashing-floor, and the wind carried them
away,-a striking symbol of the change now
in progress,-no union of the ten kingdoms into
one or two great monarchies. In the Apoca-
lypse we are told that the beast that emerged
from the flood of the. Gothic invasion should,
in its eighth head and ten horns, go into per-
dition ; and in full accordance with that inti-
THE SEVENTH VIAL. 351
mation, the kings appear with the beast and
the false prophet, on the last scene of Babylon's
destruction.
At what an awful crisis are we arrived! If
we are right in our interpretation, what vast
changes, what fearful calamities, is the present
generation destined to witness and endure ! 'Ve
can look for no pause in present convulsions :
on the contrary, we niust expect that they shall
go on, till authority has been utterly prostrated,
and society utterly dissolved, and Papal Europe
has been sacked and pillaged, and become one
wide social conflagration, with the smoke of its
torment ascending up day and night. Now is
come the "time of trouble" foretold by Daniel,
"such as never was since there was a nation,
even to that same time." These are the days
of vengeance spoken of by our Lord,-the time
when God shall assemble aU the heathen to be
judged. Now is come " the time of his wrath;"
and now is to be spread " the supper of the
great God," to which all the fowls that fly in
the midst of heaven are invited. The time of
forbearance with the Papal nations is ended,
THE SEYEXTH YIAL.
and a, judicial period has commence<l,-short,
but awful. God will reckon with the world be-
fore passing to a, new dispensation, and avenge
all the righteous blood shed upon the earth,
from the martyrs that fell under Pagan Rome,
to those that perished upon the gibbets of Scot-
land, or were shot on her mountains, and now
sleep n.mid the green slopes of the Pentlands.
The first effect of the great earthquake was
THB TRTPARTITIO~ OF THE GRF...\T CITY.
By the great city, we ham already shown, is
meant that mixe<l system of civil n.nd ecclesias-
tical polity of which the Pope was the directing
head. This city, then, was co-extensive with
Papal Europe. The various countries were the
several quarters of that city; the capitals of the
nations were its streets; Rome was its forum, or
broad place. In the earthquake of the seventh
vial it is to be rent into three parts. Its States
will break loose from their present arrangement;
and, in violation both of European treaties and
THE SEVENTH VIAL.
of national organizations, they will form them-
selves into three great confederacies. What,
doubtless, will facilitate this tripartition, is the
fall of "the cities of the nations." By this we
are most probably to understand the fall of
the different national polities throughout Pa-
pal Europe. Like the parent polity of Rome,
these are partly civil, partly ecclesiastical :
they are the same in organization and charac--
ter with hers : she is the metropolitan, they
are the provincial cities of the Papal empire.
But then they will come to an end. The king-
doms of the Papal earth being blended to-
gether, three great confederacies will stand t:p
in their room. If we turn to Europe, we see·
a.II its States at present in motion, preparatory,.
doubtless, to this new arrangement. Germany
is dissolving; the provinces of Austria are·
breaking loose ; the Italian principalities are
forming new combinations ; and a new ar-
rangement of the European commom\;..ealth
may be formed at any hour. If we confine our
view within the strict limits of the Roman
earth, we see already three grand division~',
z
354 THE SEVENTH VIAL.
though not as yet well defined. The various
kingdoms of \Vestern Europe are now arrang-
ed under three heads,-France, Italy, Austria.
It is natural to expect that this division should
have reference to the three spirits that go forth
to bring on the conflict. Now, such is the moral
aspect borne by the tripartition which present
conn1lsions havo made in Papal Europe. The
region north of the Alps is the representative of
infidelity and democracy; that south of the
Alps represents the Papacy; and that east of
the Po, absolutism. This loaves Belgium and
Spain out of view; but it is not improbable, that
as the convulsions go on, these countries will
fall in with one or other of the divisions,-
Belgium with France possibly, and Spain with
Italy. \Vo learn Britain out of view also, for
another reason: it fell, as a Papal kingdom, at
the Reformation.
This tripartition of the great city will be the
immediate precursor of Babylon's doom. "And
great Babylon came into remembrance before
God, to give unto her the cup of the wine or
the fierceness of his wrath." Her plagues will
THE SEYENTH VIAL. 355
begin with the convulsions of the earthquake;
they will continue during the political changes
by which the present order of things in Europe
shall be brought to an end ; and so soon as
the various national Governments of Europe
have been abolished, and the tripartite division
of the Roman earth completed, the final stroke
will fall on the Papacy. The words, " came
in remembrance before God," are associated
with one of the most terrific judgments of
early times. Similar language was used by
God with reference to Sodom, on the eve be-
fore that awful morning when He rained fire
and brimstone upon it from the Lord God out
of heaven. The division of the great city into
three parts will mark the very eve preceding
the conflagration of the mystic Babylon. On
the next morrow shall her plagues come. 'Vill
the fire in which she shall be consumed be lite-
ral fire ? Such is the opinion of many expo-
.sitors of name ; and their views receive coun-
tenance, as they suppose, from the fact that
the whole country of Italy is volcanic. They
think it not impossible that its now extinct
35G THE SEVENTH VIAL.
craters may burst anew and simultaneously
into action, and convert the Peninsula, from
the base of the Alps to the Cape of Sparti-
vento, into a lake of fire. "'c are disposed to
regard the fire and burning, under which the
last judgment of the Papacy is set forth, as
symbolfo ; and that this symbol is selected to
denote the peculiar severity of her plagues, :incl
the utter consumption and annihilation which
they will produce,-it being the property of
fire to annihilate that on which it preys. It
will form a more striking demonstration of the
baleful nature of Popery, as well as of the wis-
dom and justice of her great Judge, that her
final calamities should grow out of her crimes,
-that the connection between the two should
be manifest to the whole world,-that the pas-
sions of the European nations, whom she has
so long retained in ignorance and slavery, and
robbed both of tlwir temporal wealth and their
eternal salvation, roused by the recollection of
her numerous thefts, idolatries, and murders,
should burst their chains, and be directed like
burning fire against her. Of this sort was the
THE SEYE.NTH VIAL.
eating of the harlot's flesh, and the burning of
her with fire, by the kings of Europe, after the
first outbreak of the French Revolution. 'Vhen
authority shall be prostrate, and the popular
vengeance comes to rage without restraint, what
more likely than that the same scenes will be
enacted over again? The pillagings, massa-
crings, burnings, the destruction of property,
and the general proscription that fell upon the
Popish hierarchy, may again be inflicted upon
them, but in more ten-ible measure. Nor would
we deny that the rage of the elements may
combine with the fury of man, to give addi-
tional terror to the scene, and to make still
more visible the hand of God in the awful
plagues of her ruin. Of this we are certainly
informed, that these plagues shall come unex-
pectedly, when the words are in her mouth,
" I shall not be a widow ;"-that they shall
come suddenly, " Alas ! alas! that great city
Babylon, that mighty city ! for in one hour is
thy judgment come ;"-that they shall be irre-
trievable, " As a millstone cast into the depths
of ocean, so shall Babylon with violence be cast
358 THE SEVENTH VIAI,,
down, and shall rise no more;"-and unprece-
dentedly awful, exhibiting in point of horror
the full realization of what Babylon and So-
dom, in their fall, exhibited only in type, and
forming an anticipation of the terrors of the
judgment-day.
But we submit whether the fires that are
to consume the Papal earth be not already
kindled. So at least it appears to us. Eu
rope is rapidly becoming, from one extremity
to another, a scene of social burning. Every-
thing is consuming, just as if the fire were an-
nihilating it. Law, order, the power of princes,
the dignity of thrones, the estates of nobles,
the wealth of merchants, industry, trade, con-
fidence, tranquillity,-all are tending as rapid-
ly to nought as if a devouring conflagration
,were raging from side to side of Europe. And
we behold, moreover, both the kings of the
Papal earth and the false prophet enduring
torment in this lake of fire. 'Vhat poignant
grief and bitter mortification are theirs at this
hour ! Stript of their power, their wills coerced,
-their state and prerogative insulted,-obliged to
THE SEV&'iTII VIAL. 859
enact laws which their subjects frame, to pa-
tronise reforms which in their heart they detest
and abhor, and to flatter the humours of the
canaille oftheircapitals, by whom they are ruled,
-where shall we find a figure better adapted to
express sufferings like these, than that here em-
ployed,-a man tormented in fire? Such at this
moment is the condition of all the ecclesiastical
and secular powers of the Continent, from Paris
downwards. The passions of the mob, so long
prostituted by these parties to their own pur-
poses, and made the instruments of their crimes,
are now become the flames in which they are
tormented.
But we are taught to expect from the pro-
phecy that a combined effort will be made by
these parties, together with their adherents,
who will be numerous to the last, to extricate
themselves from this tormenting thraldom, and
to recover, by a bold and decisive stroke, their
former position. Or, it may be, they are preci-
pitated in conflict on other parties, to whom this
political movement is distasteful, and who are
led to employ their serried strength in putting it
3GO THE SEVENTH YIAL.
down. In this way is brought on the grand ca-
tastrophe, which is exhibited in the Apocalypse
under two symbols,-the battle of Armageddon,
and the treading the wine-press of the fierceness
of the wrath of Almighty God.
Contemporaneously with the events we have
described, and introductory to the closing scene,
thel'e appears
AN .AXGEL IN THE SUN.
Chap. xix. 17, 18, "And I saw an angel stand-
ing in the sun ; and he cried with a loud voice,
saying to all the fowls that fly in the midst of
heaven, Come, and gather yourselves unto the
supper of the great God ; that ye may eat the
flesh of kings, and the flesh of captains, and the
flesh of mighty men, and the flesh of horses,
and of them that sit on them, and the flesh of
all men, both free and bond, both small a1id
grnat." Ry this angel is plainly symbolizecl
some agency, having its head-quarters at some
TUE SE,'EXTH VIAL. 36l
conspicuous and commanding position, and act-
ing upon the whole of Europe, or perhaps eve:-i
more extensively, and thus bringing on the final
conflict. 'Ve have already found, in the inter-
pretation of the vials, that by the sun of the
Papal system is symbolized the general monar-
chy of 'Vestern Europe. This sun had been
smitten by this time, and virtually abolished in
the tripartition of the Papal earth. 'Vhatcver
shall come in its room,-whatever shall be the
leading one of the Papal countries, and vil'tu-
ally the l'Uler of them all, and especially the
source and centre of that movement which shall
issue in the great changes of that epoch,-must
be held to be symbolized by this sun. Looking
at the relative position of the Continental king-
doms, we are disposed to think that France is
here meant ; and by the angel that was now
seen in this sun, French propagandism. From
France the other countries of the Continent re-
ceive both their political and religious ideas.
She is the grand focal source of Continental
democracy and infidelity. She avows it as her
peculiar mission to revolutionize Europe. She
362 THE SEVENTH YJAL.
discovers ideas and frames model institutions for
the world. She stands forward as the soldier
of democracy, calling on other nations to follow
her example, and offering to lend them her
sword, should that be necessary to achieve
their emancipation. Not only so; she sends
agents into every country to sow revolutionary
principles. In the end of last March we were
told, that on the same day one propagandist
party had left Paris for Savoy, another for
Spain, a third for Belgium, a fourth for Ger-
many, and a fifth for Poland. To her agency
it was believed to be owing that fresh out-
breaks took place on the same day,-the 15th of
May,-in the three main capitals of the Conti-
nent,-Paris, Vienna, nnd Ilerlin. Thus, France
makes it her vocation to begin and to advance
throughout Europe, those great movements
which are destined to issue in a last and tre-
mendous conflict between despotism, supersti-
tion, and infidelity, and the destruction of all
three, each by the hand of the other.
This angel in the sun cried with a loud voice,
" saying to all the fowls that fly in the midst of
THE SEVENTH VIAL. 363
heaven, Come, and gather yourselves unto the
1:upper of the great God." " The fowls that
fly in. the midst of heaven" is a new symbol.
Some suppose that regular armies are meant.
The figure scarcely suggests that. The fowls
that fly in the midst of heaven seldom do so
in marshalled bands, but in straggling flocks.
They do not follow a leader, or are subject to
command; but each directs his course according
as he is lured by the scent of prey. "\Ye are
disposed to think that certain parties to arise
:i.t that epoch, are here symbolized,-parties
holding loose and obscene principles, of preda-
tory habits, and spurning the restraints of law.
The doctrines of Socialism, or, as they are term-
ed abroad, Communism, wouldlead, ifcarried out,
to all that the symbol suggests. The angel in-
vites them to a well-furnished banquet,-" that
ye may eat the flesh of kings, and the flesh of
captains, and the flesh of mighty men, and the
flesh of horses, and of them that sit on them,
and the flesh of all men, both free and bond,
both small and great.'' The various classes
36± THE SEYENTII VIAL.
into which European society is at present di-
vided, from monarchs down to citizens and
pe1•sons in menial condition, are here enume-
rated. Their flesh is to be given as a repast
to these symbolic fowls. By flesh we are to
understand their lands and wealth; and who
knows but that a righteous Providence may
have decreed that this shall be the latter end
of those dignities, estates, and revenues, which
have so long been prostituted to the support of
despotism and Popery,-even a universal pil-
lage~ The changes now in progress have only
to proceed a little farther, and the parties in-
dicated above would enjoy unbounded license
to carry their principles into effect, and the
terrible consummation which seems here to be
prefigured would be reached.
But while the body of the beast is to be cast
into this symbolic devouring flame, a special
judgment is reserved for the leading men among
his adherents, including his secular and ecclesi-
astical heads. That judgment is exhibited first
under the symbol of the
THE SEVENTH VIAL. 365
\TXTAGE.
In the land of Judea, the vintage followed
the harvest, after an interval of about three
months. So the symbolic harvest of the Apo-
calypse comes first, and the vintage succeeds.
The harvest symbolizes the destruction that is
to overtake the secular institutions of the Ro-
man earth, and was fulfilled, we are of opinion,
in the wars of the first five vials, which affect-
ed mainly, though not exclusively, the Popish
thrones and nations. These have had a short
term added to their existence, but not in their
former power, and are reserved, evidently, that
they may figure, as foretold, on the last scene
with their companion the false prophet. The
vine being the symbol of a Church, the vintage
must necessarily symbolize mainly, though not
exclusively, the judgments that await the ec-
clesiastical institutions of Papal Christendom.
At this epoch destruction will fall on the cor-
rupt Churches of the Latin earth, though not
011 them alone, but also 011 all their supporters,
366 THE SE\.ENTH rIAL.
whether individuals or bodies corporate. It is
very noticeable that the symbols now become
full of a blessed meaning to the Church. "And
I looked, and, behold, a white cloud, and upon
the cloud one sat like unto the Son of man, haY-
ing on his head a golden crown, and in his han<l
a sharp sickle," chap. xiv. 14. The term "8011
of man," applied to the person who appeared
to John enthroned upon the white cloud, leave~
it undoubted that this is the SaYiour. How
different his present from his former appear-
ance ! Then he was encompassed by dark
clouds, his feet were as pillars of fire, and a
rainbow was on his head ; all denoting days
of darkness,-a mysterious and trying path to
be trodden, in which the Church should haYe
need to keep hope alive by recalling God's co-
venant with her. But now He is surrounded
by symbols of gladness, prosperity, and vie·
tory; He sits upon a white cloud ; on his head
is a golden crown ; and in his hand a sharp
sickle, the instrument of judgment. Dut why
did Christ appear at this moment ? He is seen
sitting in judgment upon his great enemy,-
THE SEVENTH YIAL. 367
llresiding over his final destruction ; and thus
the last act, as well as all the preceding ones,
is seen to be his doing, and the end of this
great drama is connected in a striking manner
with its beginning. The moment to thrust in
the sickle and reap the vine of the earth is an-
nounced by an angel which came out from the
altar, even the angel which had power over fire,
that is, whose duty it was to keep alive the
altar-fire, and take care of the ashes of the
sacrifice consumed in that fire. This is a sym-
bol full of meaning. It plainly indicates that
the reaping the vine, and the treading it in the
wine-prnss, is to be viewed as a sacrifice to jus-
tice. But what sin had rendered necessary
this great expiatory judgment ? This, too, is
plainly shown in the symbol. The angel from
the "altar" indicates, as the procuring cause
of this vengeunce, the slaughter of the witnesses.
So early as the opening of the fifth seal, in the
third century, the cry of martyrs had arisen
from under the altar: " How long, 0 Lord,
holy and true, dost thou not judge and avenge
our blood on them that dwell on the earth ~
368 THE SEVE:S-Tll VIAL.
And it was said unto them that they should
rest yet for a little season, until their fellow-
scrvants also, and their brethren, that should
be killed as they were, should be fulfilled."
This points to a second company of martyrs
to be slain before the blood of those that fell
under Pagan Rome could be avenged, namely,
tlie martyrs under the Papacy. But now the
roll of martyrdom has been completed, and
there is nothing to prevent the infliction of n.
full measure of vengeance. Accordingly, the
terms in which the pouring out of the third
vial is described announce that the deferred
vengeance had commenced. " They have shed
the blood of saints [the primitive martyrs], and
of prophet.s [who prophesied twelve hundred
and sixty days in sackcloth], and thou hast
given them blood to drink." The song of the
nngel, too, on occasion of this commencing act
of retribution, refers us back to the invocation
of the souls beneath the altar, seeing it tums
on the same divine attributes : " Even so, Lord
God Almighty, true and righteous are thy
juclgments." An awfully judicial character,
THE SEVE~TH VIAL. 369
then, shall belong to the epoch of the vintage.
Its vengeance will be on a scale commensurate
with the blood Rome has shed, reaching back
to the ea,rliest clays. "And in her was founcl
the blood of prophets, and of saints, and of all
that were slain upon the earth." " Thrust in
thy sharp sickle," said the angel, "and gather
the clusters of the vine of the earth, for her
grapes n,re fully ripe." 'Ve call attention to
the reason assigned for reaping now : " her
grapes are fully ripe." This has been common-
ly referred to the sin of the Roman Church as
being filled up. "\Ve apprehend it refers to a
change that is to take place within the Church,.
analogous to that which the vine undergoes
when it is ripe. vVhen may n, corrupt Church
be said to be ripe? Just when the natural
issue or fruit of her false faith has been fully
developed. And what is the natural fruit of a
false faith ? The destruction offaith altogether,
-downright infidelity or atheism. "\Vhenever
the false faith of the Church of Rome shall
have passed, in the majority of cases, into in-
fidelity, then the vine of the earth will be fully
2 A
. 370 THE SEYE~Til YL\L.
ripe. This appears to fix the prophecy in its
reference to our own times ; for, on the testi-
mony of all who han~ had access to know, the
superstitious faith of tho Popish nations has
undergone precisely such a change as we have
:indicated. If the vine is allowed to overpass
the period of its maturity, it becomes unfit for
the wine-press. An analogous necessity exists
for gathering the clusters of the mystic vine,
now if ever. Twenty-five years hence, if the
influences at present in existence continue to
operate, Popery will have rotted away, and
perished in its excessive maturity, and scarce
anything will remain to be gathered and cast
into the wine-press. Hence the urgency of the
comlllancl, "Thrust in thy sharp sickle, and
'gather the clusters of the vine of the earth, for
her grapes are fully ripe."
It is especially worthy of remark, that the
four leading idolatries are in precisely the same
condition in this respect. Their false faith has
passed, to a greater or less degree, into no
faith. '\'hon the sap of superstition flowed
freely' in the veins of these mighty trunks, the
THE SEVEi'\TH rIAL. 371
firm hold of the soil taken by their roots, and
the gnarled strength of their boughs, enabled
them to bid defiance to the storm ; but now,
drained of their sap, the first breeze that sets
in threatens to rend their mouldering stems in
pieces. Hinduism is passing into scepticism,
and totters to its fall. Mahommedanism has
become a thing of decent observances, alto-
gether devoid of the fiery zeal and proselytiz·
ing spirit that made it once formidable. Juda-
is111 has relinquished its peculiar glory and hope,
and now awaits the advent of no other Messiah
than a political enfranchisement. Popery itself
has become infected with infidelity, and is rot-
ten to the very core. Thus it is plain, if some
speedy and powerful interposition do not arrest
or change the current of present tendencies, .
that we are on the eve of the reign of universal
sceptw1sm. How exactly does this correspond
with the predicted character of the age when
the Son of man shall come ! " \Vhen the Son
of man cometh, shall He find faith on the
earth r
The vine of the earth being ripe, the sharp
372 THE SEYENTH YIAL•
.sickle is thrust in, and her clusters are gather-
ed. The gathering of the vine may possibly
symbolize the drawing together into one place
the adherents of the Papacy, so that judgment
may be executed upon them without compro-
mising the safety of others. The vine being
gathered, it is cast "into the great wine-press
of the wrath of God. And the wine-press was
trodden without the city, n,nd blood came out
of the wine-press, even unto the horse bridles,
by the space of n, thousn,nd n,nd six hundred
furlongs." In scriptural times and countries
the wine-press was placed without the city.
So this symbolic wine-press is trodden outside
the mystic city. 'Ve are taught to look,-so at
least it would seem,-beyond the limits of the
L::ttin earth, for the scene of this final judgment.
The " blood" indicates slaughter ; and the di-
mensions of the wine-press are such as to show
that the slaughter will be tremendous. The
blood that filled it wn,s found, when measured,
to extend sixteen hundred furlongs, or about a.n
hundred and fifty miles. If one side of the
wine-press only is denoted, the area would be
THE SEVEXTH VIAL. 373
enormous, and the slaughter fearfully great;
and even though we should understand all the
four sides as included in this measurement, the
catastrophe would be unspeakably awful. This
is about the breadth of Italy; and not a few
have fixed on the Campagna as the fated spot.
Some stress may be laid on the circumstance
that the term "great" is here dropped, which
in other parts of the Apocalypse is usually pre~
fixed to "city," when the Papal system, in all
its extent of territory, is meant, as "great
Babylon," "the great city." This makes it
not wholly improbable that, though the wine-
prcss is trodden without. the city, that may not
mean beyond the limits of the Papal territory,
but outside the literal city of the seven hills.
If the territory around Rome should become
the scene of the vintage, then that judgment
would accord, as regards its locality, with that
of the third vial, which fell mainly on those
very spots where the blood of the martyrs had
been shed. Others look to Judea as the lo-
cality indicated; and it is worthy of notice,
that the length of that country, from Lebanon
THE SEVENTH YIAL.
to the southern boundary of the tribe of.Judah,
is about an hundred and sixty miles. Thi.c;
opinion receives some countenance from certain
prophecies of Daniel, which we are now to con-
sider. The standard employed to gauge tho
depth of the blood reminds us that horsemen
are to be present on the scene ; and this, again,
of the second symbol under which this great
judgment is held forth, namely,
THE RATTLE OF AmIAGEDDON.
" They are the spirits of devils working mi-
racles, which go forth unto the kings of the
earth, and of the whole world, to gather them
to the battle of that great day of God Almighty.
And he gathered them together into a place
called, in the Hebrew tongue, Armageddon."
Jn alJ probability, the kings of the Roman
earth, at the instigation of Rome (for it is just
that their final destruction should come frnm
her whom they have so Jong supported), will
a<l~pt a line of policy opposite to that of the
THE SEVENTH VIAL. 37ti
kings beyond these limits ; and thus a c01:-
flict involving the whole civilized world will be
brought on. On one battle-field they will all
meet, with their armies; and there the judg-
ments of God will overtake them, which they
will become the instruments of wreaking on one
:mother. It is remarkable that a Hebrew name
is gi\·en to this field, which certainly gives some
countenance to the idea that the conflict will
take place on Jewish soil. 'Ve find numerous
and not obscure allusions scattered throughout
other prophets, of this great battle and terrible
day of wrath. It is to this epoch, we are of
opinion, that the close of Daniel's last prophecy
has reference. By far the most probable inter-
pretation of chapter xi. is that which makes it,
from the thirty-first verse downwards,-" and
arms shall stand on his part,"-apply to the Ro-
man power. At the thirty-sixth verse the Anti-
christ is introduced:-" And the king shall do
according to his will." At the fortieth verse
commences the epoch of his fall :-"And at the
time of the end [the period of the seventh trum·
pet] shall the king of the south [Egypt, the
876 THE SEVEl'\Tll YIAL.
kingdom of the Ptolemies, lying south of Ju-
dea] push at him; and the king ·of the north
[the power at that time occupying the kingdom
of the Seleucid& or Syria] shall come against
him like a whirlwind, with chariots, and with
horsemen, and with many ships ; and he [not
the king of the north, but the king against
whom the other two make war, namely, the
Antichrist] shall enter into the countries, and
shall overflow and pass over. He shall enter
also into the glorious land." Till a few months
ago, such a movement as that here indicated
was altogether improbable ; but now it is not
difficult to perceive how it might be brought
about. Both Fran9e and Italy are now fully
committed to the grand revolutionary move-
ment. The Pope is not less so; and, as by far
the most sagacious and crafty of its chiefs, he
is likely to continue at its head, for better or
worse, till it end either in unprecedented tri-
umph or unprecedented disaster. But in the
prosecution of this movement, nothing is more
probable than that he and his allies will be
br~ught into collision with the serried strength
THE SEVENTH YIAL. 377
of the east of Europe and Asia, including Tur-
key and Egypt. Russia, the Porte, and Mehe-
met Ali, are, we know, watching the movement
with anxiety, and are busy raising armies and
forming camps to meet it. France will be ne·
cessarily compelled, in the prosecution of her
avowed mission of revolutionizing the world, to
progress eastward. Both France and the Pa-
pacy have already turned their eyes on Pales-
tine, as desirable on many grounds,-to cripple
England, check Russia, and to possess a central
point, whence they might diffuse their political
and religious institutions over the East. We
have seen of late ye:ns how the Papacy has
made use of the arms of France to adrnnce its
own projects in distant regions. \Vhy may it
not use the arms of the Republic, professedly
for the spread of Republican institutions, but
in reality for the extension of Papal rule?
Were such an expedition to be set on foot, the
present alliances of France in Africa would
enable her to draw contingents from the very
tribes mentioned in the forty-third verse: "And
the Libyans and the Ethiopians shall be at his
378 THE SEVENTH VBL.
steps." In this way the Papal st:i.ndard, in
conjunction with that of the revolutionized
kings and kingdoms of 'Vestern Europe, may
come to be planted " between the seas, in the
glorious holy mountain" of Judea, and there be
met by the combined armies both of \Vestern
Asia and Eastern Europe. The exhaustion of
the Turkish power has prepared the way both
for the entrance of the western revolutionary
powers into the East, and the advance of tlw
horsemen and ships of Russia and the chariots
and horsemen of Persia against them. That
the prophecy refers to the epoch of the seventh
vial, appears not only from its occurring "at
the time of the end," but from what is added,
namely, that then there shall be a time of
trouble such as never was since there was a na-
tion, and :i.t that time Daniel's people shall be
delivered. In other prophecies there is a re-
ference to a gathering of all nations on the
mountains of Ism.el, in connection with the final
destruction of God's enemies, and the deliver-
:rnce of the Jews. Ezekiel, xxxviii. 2,-" Son
of man, set thy face against Gog, the land of
THE SEVEl'\TH VIAL. 379
l\fagog, the chief prince of l\Ieshech and Tu-
bal, and prophesy against him, and say, Thus
saith the Lord God, Behold, I am against thee,
0 Gog, the chief prince of Mcshech and Tubal :
and I will turn thee back, and put hooks into
thy jaws, and I will bring thee forth, and all
thine army, horses an<l horsemen, all of them
clothed with all sorts of armour, even a great
company with bucklers and shields, all of them
handling swords : Persia, Ethiopia, and Libya
with them ; all of them with shield and hel-
met : Gomer, and all his bands ; the house of
Togarmah of the north quarters, and all his
bands : and many people with thee. Be thou
prepared, and prepare for thyself, thou, and all
thy company that are assembled unto thee, and
be thou a guard unto them." Gog and Magog
are generally interpreted to apply to the an-
cient Scythians, or modern Tartars, from whom
the Turks are descended. But there is no rea-
son why we should not also include the more
northern branch inhabiting Russia,-Rosh,-as
forming part of this confederacy. It is plain,
from the terms of the prophecy, that the Jews
THE SEVE~TH VIAL.
a.re previously to be restored to their own lan1l
in an unconverted state, for their conversion is.
predicted as a result of the destruction of their
enemies, and the glorious deliverance \Hought
for them : "And I will send a fire on :Magog
[the Turks and Russians], and among them
that dwell carelessly iq the isles [the Euro-
pean nations] ; and they shall know that I
am the Lord. So will I make my holy name
known in the midst of my people Israel ; and I
will not let them pollute my holy name any
more : and the heathen shall know that I am
the Lord, the Holy One in Israel." 'Vhen
other nationalities are being restored, it would
not surprise us to find such a scheme broached
in reference to the Jews. Their troubles since
tlie present commotions began have been great
in various places ; and should these increase,
they are likely to think of a return to Pales-
tine. Republican France would, in her pre-
sent humour, readily promote such a scheme.
She might find political reasons for doing so.
Through the Jews she might hope to curb the
a.mbition of Russia, and hold the key of the
THE SEYE~TH YIAL. 381
East. And there would certainly be greater
propriety in tho long-predicted return of the
J ows being effected at last through an infidel
rather than a Christian nation.. But whatever
the power that shall lend its aid to accomplish
the return of the Jews, it is certain that im-
mediately subsequent, an unexampled gathering
ofthe nations from the North, the East, and the
\Vest, shall take place in that land, for hostile
purposes; and there, on the same day and the
same scene, vengeance shall overtake the Papal,
theMahommedan,and the despotic powers. The
imagery employed by Ezekiel and Joel to depict
this awful event is so similar to that of the Apo-
calypse, that we are inclined to think they re-
fer to the same event, namely, the battle of the
great day of God Almighty,-the awful tragedy
of blood, in which the history of the great per-
secuting powers, Popery and Mahommedanism,
with all their supporters, is destined to close :
" And it shall come to pass at the samo time
when Gog shall come against the land of Israel,
saith the Lord God, that my fury shall come
332 TUE SEYE~Tll YI.AL.
up in my face." "And I will call for a sword
against him throughout all my mountains, saith
the Lord God: every man's sword shall be
against his brother. And I will plead against
him with pestilence and with blood; and I will
rain upon him, and upon his bands, and upon
the many people that are with him, an over·
fl.owing rain, and great hailstones, fire, and
brimstone." " And thou, Son of man, thus
saith the Lord God; Speak unto every feather-
ed fowl, and to every beast of the field, Assem-
ble your.selves, and come; gather yourselves on
every side to my sacrifice that I do sacrifice for
you, even a grnat sacrifice upon the mountains
of Israel, that ye may eat flesh and drink blood.
Ye shall eat the flesh of the mighty, and drink
the blood of the princes of the earth, of rams,
of lambs, and of goats, of bullocks, all of them
fatlings of Bashan. And ye shall eat fat till
ye be full, and drink blood till ye be drunken,
of my sacrifice which I have sacrificed for you.
Tims ye shall be filled at my table with horses
and chariots, with mighty men, and with all
THE SEYEXTII YIAL. 383
men of war, saith the Lord God. And I will
set my glory among the heathen, and all the
heathen shall sec my judgment that I have exe·
cuted, and my hand that I have laid upon them.
So the house of Israel shall know that I am the
Lord their God from that clay and forward."
Joel, chap. iii., "Proclaim ye this among the
Gentiles-; Prepare war, wake up the mighty
men; let all the men of war dmw near; let them
come up: beat your plowshares into swords, and
your pruninghooks into spears : let the weak
say, I am strong." " Let the heathen be waken-
ed, and come up to the valley of Jehoshaphat :
for there will I sit to judge all the heathen
round about. Put ye in the sickle, for the har-
vest is ripe : co~ne, get you down ; for the press
is full, the fats overflow ; for their wickedness
is great." "The sun and the moon shall be
darkened, and the stars shall withdraw their
shining. The Lord also shall roar out of Zion,
and utter his voice from Jerusalem; and the
heavens and the earth shall shake : bli.t the
Lord will be the hope of his people, and the
384< TIIE SEVE~TH VIAL.
strength of the children of Israel. So sha.ll ye
know that I am the Lord your God, dwelling in
Zion, my holy mountain: then shall Jerusa.lem
be holy, and there shall no stranger pass through
her any more."
THE HARPERS, &C'. 385
THE HARPERS DY THE SEA OF GLASS.
'VE are unwilling to drop the curtain on this
dark scene. Therefore we turn, before leaving
this grand Apocalyptic history, to another of
its visions. "While the scenes of destruction
we have described are going forward, another
company is seen, occupying a place of safety,
and singing songs of victory. Chap. xv. 3,
.: And I saw as it were a sea of glass mingled
with fire ; and them that had gotten the vic-
tory over the beast, and over his image, and
over his mark, and over tho number of his
name, stand on the sea of glass, having the
harps of God." This vision synchronizes with
that of the seven vials : for these white-robed
harpers by the glassy sea are seen by John
immediately after the emergence from the tem-
2 B
386 THE SEVENTH YIAL.
pie of the seven angels with the seven last
plagues. vVe are to conceive of the song of
the harpers as commencing when the vials be-
gan to be poured out, and going on during alf
the period of the vials, so that its melody would
be heard during the pauses of the storm, if not
also at times mingling with its thunders. They
are described as they who had gotten the victory
over the beast, which marks them out as the
Protestant remnant, who, having escaped the
pollutions of Popery, are now preseryed by
God from its plagues. They stand on, or by,
a sea of glass, having the harps of God. This
brings vividly before us those glorious transac-
tions of which the Red Sea was once the scene.
Guided by the pillar of fire, the tribes had
passecl safely through its depths, and, standing
on its brink, the vast assembly burst out as
one man into a triumphal hymn, which swelled
along the shores of the gulph, and rose loud
above the thunder of the surge that over-
whelmed Pharaoh and his host. It is from
this scene that the symbol before us is bor-
rowed ; and it tells us that it is another such
THE HARPERS, &c. 387
deliverance that awaits the Church, and an-
other such catastrophe that shall overwhelm
her foes. If, as some believe, and as is exceed-
ingly probable, there was spread out before
.John a miniature of the Roman earth all the
time these visions were going forward, then
it is possible that the apostle may have seen
the very locality the harpers were to occupy.
Taking this vision in connection with the fall
of the tenth part of the city at the Reforma-
tion, Mr Elliot points pretty distinctly to Bri-
tain as the spot in question, and the " glassy
sea" as the narrow channel which separates
the Popish continent from the isle of Pro-
testantism. But though British Protestants
doubtless form the main division in this army
of harpers, we must not exclude others. In
.all the Popish countries are little eompanies of
Protestants, whom we are disposed, we think
on good ground, to rank among these harpers.
The calmness of the sea,-for its surface is of
glassy smoothness,-is a general figure denoting
their safety and tranquillity. But the sea is
mingled with fire, the symbol of judgment; im-
388 THE SEYE~TH \'IAL.
plying that, though protected wonderfully by
the providence of God, awful calamities should
prevail around them. Indeed, when we reflect
on what is passing at this hour, we are almost
tempted to think with Mr Elliot that a par-
ticular locality is denoted by the symbol, aiid
that that locality is Britain. vVhen we con-
trast our own tranquillity with the alarm, tur-
moil, and convulsion, into which the Popish
earth has been thrown, whose inhabitants have
literally no rest day nor night, the majestic re-
pose of Britain has all the moral effect ofa noble
hymn sung to God, who is thus separating " be-
tween the precious and the vile," and bearing
testimony before the world to the value of his
trnth. "And they sing the song of Moses the
servant of God, and the song of the Lamb."
As the tribes halted on the shore of the Red
Sea, and sang the song of Moses, so the New
Testament tribes, when mystic Egypt shall be
destroyed, at the same time that they look
back on ancient songs, will sing those of the
new dispensation, celebrating the power and
faithfulness of the Moses who has led them
THE HARPERS, &c. 289
through the sea, even the Lamb. The leading
note of their song is given: "Great and mar-
vellous are thy works, Lord God Almighty."
Such is the first ascription. ·when the mys-
tery of Providence shall be finished in the
destruction of Antichrist, and the Church
shall view the beginning in the light of the
end, the obscurity and apparent confusion and
contradiction that now appear to mar the
scheme will be rolled away, and she will be
left in amazement at the grandeur of the work,
and the power of the 'Vorkman. " Great and
marvellous" she shall see the one to be, and
the other she will acknowledge to be indeed
the" Lord God Almighty." "Just and true,"
continues these harpers, "are thy ways, thou
King of saints." A grand discovery of moral
principles awaits the world in this catastrophe.
It is to form the last and crowning step in the
long demonstration of the eternal rectitude of
God's procedure. And when this step shall have
been accomplished, the completeness of the
whole proof will be clearly seen, and its irre~
sistible force universally acknowledged. "Just
390 THE SEVENTH VIAL.
and true," shall the Church say with one voice,
"are thy ways, thou King of saints." Not the
Church only, but the nations generally, shall be
deeply impressed with a sense of the justice
and truth of God. Accordingly the song of the
harpers concludes with an anticipation of the
immediate approach of a better dispensation.
" 'Vho shall not fear thee, 0 Lord, and glorify
thy name ? for thou only art holy : for all na-
tions shall come and worship before thee; for
thy judgments are made manifest. The grand
principles which enter into the right constitu-
tion and the proper government of human so-
<:iety being demonstrated in these awful scenes,
-taken in connection with all that went before
since th~ rise of Popery,-and the world being
now put fully in possession of them, we have
reason to think they will never again be lost.
\Ve cannot conceive of the knowledge of the
six primary mechanical powers being lost. The
mechanist and the artizan will proceed on these
principles till the end of time. The law of
gravitation, and the other fundamental laws of
science, being now fully established, will con··
TUE HARPERS, &c. 391
tinue, through all time, to form the base of all
the reasonings and discoveries of philosophy.
"'Why should not moral truth, if once fully dis-·
covered and clearly demonstrated, be retained,
by the help of the Divine Spirit, with equal per-
manency? The grand fundamental laws of
moral and religious truth, though the first in
importance, have been the last to be discovered :
nor till the awful scenes of the seventh vial shall
have been completed, will these great principles
be fully evolved, and the world generallybrought
to the knowledge of them. But having come
into full possession of them by painful experi-
ence, we have reason to think they will not again
be lost, but will continue henceforward to mould
the character and regulate the actings of so-
ciety, both in its corporate capacity and its in-
dividual members. The reign of these prmc1-
ples will constitute the MILLENNIUM.
FINIS.
