{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research 6335 1102 1655","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_proceedings_v2_28_november_1884.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V2 November 28 1884","mylang":"de"}
Nov. 28, 1884.] General Meeting. 217
PROOEEDINGS OF THE GENERAL MEETING ON
NO'IJ6mlJer 28, 1884.
The tenth General Meeting of the Society was held at the Rooms
of the Society of British Artists, Suft'olk Street, Pall Mall, on Friday,
November 28, 1884.
PROFESSOR W. F. BARRETT, VICE-PRESIDBNT, IN THB OHAIR.
The Oh!l.irma.n, in his opening address, described a recent visit to
Canada. and the United States, in the course of which he had devoted
much time and trouble to spreading a knowledge of the Society's work.
He had met with many indications of a genuine interest in Psychical
Research, and he spoke hopefully of the prospect that allied societifm
might before long be formed a.t several important centres.
I.
ON A TELEPATHIO EXPLANATION OF SOME SO-OALLED
SPIRITUALISTIO PHENOMENA.
By F. W. H. MYERS.
PART I.
It is an obvious fact, but it is nevertheless a fact which we must
repeat as often as possible, that in no way can psychical research be
better aided than by constant and varied experiments on Thought.
transference in every form. We have got, as we hold, a definite fact to
start from, a fact of immense and unknown significance. If, as we
believe, we can truly say "mind acts on mind otherwise than
by the recognised organs of sense," this is probably a statement
far more pregnant with consequences than the statements, U rubbed
amber attracts straw," or, "the loadstone attracts iron." And it
must be our business to turn our new fact over in every direction,
to speculate upon it in every way, or rather in every way which can
possibly suggest a new form of experiment. We must remember that
the experimental cases which we have already collected are probably
only what Bacon calls "ostensive instances;" "instances," as he
expressed it, "which show the nature under investigation naked, in Ion
s
Di~ilized by Coogle
218 On a Telepatklc E;qJianation of 8ome' [Nov.. 28,
exalted condition, or in the highest degree of power" ;-and which are, so
to speak, mere emergent summits from a great ocean, which lies
beyond our present reach of observation, and perhaps even beneath the
level of our consciousness.
And our investigation,in thecaseofapowerso novel and obscure,must
take two different, though converging lines. We must, in the first place,
vary our actual deliberate experiments as widely as possible; in turn
introducing and excluding as many separate conditions as seem likely to
have a bearing'on the result. And we must, in the second place, scan
the whole range of psychical phenomena already alleged to occur (though
inteq>reted Qn some different principle), with telepathy in our mindS as
a. new vera causa, which will probably be found to be the real solution
of many problems hitherto in dispute.
And in this form ofjiBlting interrogatory, or surVey from a new stand-
point of a wide and miscellaneous field, we shall do best to begin
with a few definite groups of phenomena, and to disentangle them as
distinctly as may be from any dubious theory with which they may
have become involved, and to look at them in the light of telepathy so
as to give that theory the chance of explaining them.
In this process we shall probably, in some directions, press the
theory of telepathy farther than subsequent knowledge will justify.
But it is only by endeavouring to ascertain how many phenomena,
inexplicable by generally recognised laws of nature, may be explained
by this new vera causa that we shall learn at what point other, yet
unknown, causes (if any) begin to intervene.
We have already 'I;Iegun to make one survey from the telepathic
standpoint of previously-recorded phenomena-namely, our inquiry into
the nature of apparitions and other (auditory or tactile) phantasms of
living persons. We have seen reason to connect many of these with
telepathy ; and we are pressing that explanation as far as it will go,
though without prejudice to any other explanation which certain
apparitions may hereafter seem to require.
In the same way I now propose, in a series of two or three papers,
to consider how far the already recorded phenomena of automatic
writing and the like may be explained by telepathy, but without
prejudice to any other yet unknown causes which may afterwards
show claim to acceptance.
I have selected automatic writing as the subject for inquiry in great
measure because of its direct bearing on one of the most interesting of
telepathic problems,-viz., the relation of consciousness to telepathy; the
extent to which the hypothetical impact is consciously present, whether
as will, thought, emotion, or sensation in either mind. Throughout all
these investigations we must keep 'Unconscious cerebration steadily in
-view, and we shall, I think, find ourselves confronted with. many of ita
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] So-called Spi1·itttali8tic Pkeltomena. 21-9
results, and be induced continually to enlarge its field of action. We
shall, I venture to say, come to regard this term less and less as
expressing a stWsidia'l"lJ, more and more 'as expressing a I'lwstantive and
primary operation of our intelligence; and we shall come, perhaps, to find
8uper-conscious as necessary a term as sub-conscious, if we would indi-
cate the true relation to each other of the processes in which our being
consists.
And it is to my mind one of the chief mterests in telepathy that it
seems sometimes to reveal our unconscious to our conscious selves; that
'it acts like the strong inwardly-directed ray of light which enables the
surgeon to see reflected in a mirror some obscure recess of his own
inward structure.
With these possibilities in our mind, let us first consider how the
question of consciousness stands in the cases of telepathy ~hich we have
already collected. And, for the sake of simplicity, we will, in this first
paper, take the percipient's consciousness alone into account.
In our recorded experiments on telepathy with percipients in the
normal state the percipient has necessarily been conscious of the im- '
pact, inasmuch as it has been by his description, or his voluntary repre-
sentation of the impact, (as by drawing a picture which he feels to be
telepathically presented to his mind's eye), that the success of the
experiment has been tested. No argument can be drawn from these
eases, however, as to the necessary emergence of the telepathic impact in
consciousness. For here consciousness was voluntarily concentrated on
the reception of that impact; all competing impressions being, as far
as possible, excluded.
But in one class of our experiments a singular difference occurs.
Thought-transference is one of the characteristic phenomena. of the
meSmeric trance or sleep-waking state, where, although there seems to
be a certain consciousness at the time, that consciousness, in most cases,
leaves no trace whatever in the subject's normal memory. A,nd, more
than this, there seems reason to believe that in many cases of hysteria
, and similar affections where the subject is said to be clai'I"IJoyante, the
phenomenon is in reality referable to thought-transference only. An
interesting case, recently published by Dr. Taguet, of Bordeaux, affords
a good instance of the confusion of thought at present prevalent on such
subjects. His hysterical patient manifested during her acces an extra-
ordinary hyperlllSthesia of smell and hearing. Her eyes, meantime,
were shut, or at any rate the eyeballs were completely upturned. But,
nevertheless, she manifested what Dr. Taguet rather oddly, describes as
"hypel'lllSthesia of vision," under the following circumstances. Dr.
'Taguet stood completely behind her, and fixed his eyes on certain worda
in a book. 'A sheet of cardboard was held before her face, in such a
position that, had it been a mirror, the book would have been reflected
Digitized by G~6g1e
220 O/~ a Telepatlll'c Ezplanation of 80me [Nov. 28,
therein. The girl then, in her trance, took the cardboard for a mirror,
and spelt out the words which Dr. Taguet was reading, as though they
were reflected in the cardboard before her. Now Dr. Ta.guet does not
attempt to explain this, further than by callingit hypenesthesia of vision.
But he can hardly mean that she really saw the words reflected in the
cardboard. Perhaps the only other solution which suggested itself to
him was that she saw the words clairvoyantly, and this solution he did
not like to adopt. And there is in fact no reason, as the facts are
reported, for assuming clairvoyance. Thought-transference would
amply suffice to explain the phenomenon. If, then, we find telepathy
occurring in mesmeric trance and spontaneous trance, we may infer
that it is not inseparably linked with the ordinary stream of normal
consciousness. If it appears as an element of the consciousness or
quasi-consciousness of abnormal states, which themselves form mere
lacurue in the main life-memory, it may be surmised to exist beneath
the threshold of consciousness in normal states also.
It is, naturally, not very easy to get direct evidence of this.
Amongst our phantasms of the living we have, no doubt, many instances
where the supposed. thought or impulse of the agent is represented very
vaguely and imperfectly in the percipient's mind, and prompts, for
instance, to some mistaken form of action. But this is not quite the
same thing. SomethinF/ comes into the percipient's consciousness.
though it may be only an imperfect transcript of what the agent's mind
contained, or attempted to transmit.
In a few cases, however, the impact seems to affect the percipient
without exciting anything which can be called an idea. In these' cases
it is merely felt as a motor impulse, determining to some action whose
purport is not consciously realised. We have elsewhere given the case,
of Mr. Skirving, who was irresistibly impelled to leave his work and go-
home-why, he knew not--at a moment when his wife was, in fact,
calling for him in the distress of a serious accident. But we may give-
here one other illustrative case,-which no one, I think, who has.
accepted the general fact of telepathy will be disposed to regard as a
mere coincidence; a case where consciousness is still less invaded by
the telepathic impact, and where the motor impulse is described as.
having been as nearly automatic as any movements so prolonged and
complex can easily be. The case comes from Mr. Morgan, of Nugent,
Hill, recommended to us by Dr. Paul Chapman as a most accurate and
careful informant.
DEAR Sm,-
Nugent Hill, Bristol, July 11th, 1883.
The matter to which Dr. Chapman refers is as follows :-
On Monday, February 14th, 1853, I was listening to a lecture by the late-
Geo. Dawson, of Birmingham, in the Broadmead Rooms in Bristol. I
frequently spent my evenings at lectures, concerts, &c., and often took a.
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] So-called Spiritualistic Pllenomena. 221
little walk afterwards on my way home. I had lived nearly all my life ('J!{
years) -at home with my mother, whom I strongly resemble in face and in
many characteristics. We were much attached to each other.
I was th~roughly interested in the lecture, and had so little intention of
leaving before its conclusion, that I remember noticing a friend among the
audience and making up my mind for a walk with him on my way home.
The lecture must have been more than half through-I was not tired,
and had no reason to move-when I noticed, at the side of the platform
farthest from the back entrance to the hall, a door which I had never seen
before, flush with the panels, and it suddenly became the most natural thing .
that I should walk half the length of the room, and away from. the main
entrance, in order to see if this door would open. I turned the handle,
passed through, closed the door gently behind me, and found myself in the
.dark among the wooden supports of the platform.
I clambered along towards a glimmer of light at the other end, passed
round a side passage, crossed the end of the hall to the main entrance without
any thought of the lecture, which was still going on, and walked home
quietly without excitement and "impression" of any kind, and quite
unconscious, till long after, that I had done anything unusual.
On opening my door with a latch-key I smelt fire, and found my mother
in great alarm. She had also noticed the strong burning smell, had been
over the house with her servant, and was longing for my return.
On going upstairs I saw flames iBBuing from a back window' of the next
house, immediately gave the alarm, removed my mother to a safe distance,
and then had two or three hours'· struggle with the flames. The adjoining
house was destroyed, but mine only slightly damaged.
The point which has seemed to me most striking whenever I have recalled
this occurrence, is the entire absence of any presentiment or impression on
my mind. I should probably have shaken off anything of the kind had I
been aware of it, and refused obedience.
Neither was there on my mother's part any intentional exertion of her
will upon me, only a strong wish for my presence, which must have begun
about the time I left my seat. I do not know that there is anything to add. If
anything occurs to you as being worthy of further inquiry, I shall be happy
to say what I can about it.
FREDK. MORGAN.
Mr. Morgan adds, in reply to our regular inquiry, that he has never had
any other presentiment or impression of the kind. .
He also sends a plan of the lecture-room, which shows that he walked in
a dark passage round nearly three sides of the hall.
" But going "'ome," he adds, "was not in my thoughts when I moved."
Well, then, let us consider whether there is any kind of minor
automatic motion which we can hope to evoke experimentally by tele-
pathic impact, without the invasion of the percipient's consciousness by
any definite idea 'I The movements practised in the "willing game ,.
-finding of objects and the like-at once suggest themselves, and the
writing of the numbers of bank-notes, &c.; as practised in certain public
performances. But, as we have so often remarked, any contact between
Digitized by Coogle
222 011 a TelepatMc EfCplanatioll of some [Nov. 28~.
.agent and percipient at once vitiates these as telepathic experiments;
and even if we get the finding of objects, &c., without contact, it seems .
difficult to exclude all risk of guesBing, where the possible modifications
of movement are, comparatively speaking, so few. We want to find
some class of movement which shall be readily capable of being per-
formed automatically, and at the sll:me time shall admit of a very large
range of variations.
Probably the first action of this kind which will suggest itself
to all of us is the act of wri~ing. Handwriting is, in many ways, a kind
of summary expression of a man's being. It is one of t.he best instances
of an aptitude at once acquired and hereditary ; of a manual dexterity
which obeys limitations of idiosyncrasy as well as of will. John Smith
cannot paint like Raphael. That, we say, is because Raphael's command·
of hand and eye is immensely grea~r than John Smith's. But it does
not follow that Raphael can write like John Smith. Very probably no
manual or mental superiority will give him the power of appropriating
what is veritably idiosyncratic in the hurried scrawl with which John
Smith signs his name, with scarcely a glance at the paper. Handwriting,
that is to say, is a deep-seated thing. It is likely to have secrets t~
tell us.
First, let us consider what is the rationale of automatic writing
from the ordinary physiological point of view. It is simply an exten-
sion of the tricks of unconscious action which, to some extent, are com-'
mon to every one, and which in nervous and excitable persons often'
attain an extraordinary degree of complexity. It is, of cC!urse, well
known that in moments of vivid emotion· the surplus nervous energy es-
(l8,pes in involuntary channels, which often bear some traceable connec-
tion with the habitual modes of thought or action of the person con-
cerned. To take a typical case, an accomplished pianist, if stirred by
soine sudden emotion while seated at the piano, will sometimes play a
long passR.ge without any consciousness of having done so; and, more-
over, the passage thus unwittingly selected will be one which is in vague
general harmony with the new current of emotion. Now the act of
writing being one of the commonest of the more complex acquired acts.
we shall naturally expect that many half-conscious or unconscious
tricks will be connected with it.
And this is notoriously the case. Persons seated with pens or
pencils in their hands round a table where discussion is going on will
generally scrawl or sketch on the paper before them; while if that
paper was suddenly withdrawn, and they were asked what words they
had written thereon, most of them would be unable to reply. Students
of la1lfl'U6fle are, as might be expected, particularly liable to this trick;
and many an odd· Greek word, oozing its way, so to speak, from some
.recess of memory, has been unconsciously scribbled on the edge of
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] So-called Spiritualistic Pltenomena. 223
composition papers in the nervousness of examination. In this case it
is the strong concentration of the current of attention elsewhere which
allows the writing faculty to manifest itself automatically,-permits,
that is to say, the unconscious cerebral action to discharge itself along
the well-worn track which leads to the formation of written words.
And something of the same kind takes place also when the current of,
attention,instead of being concentrated into a narrowcha.nnel,ischokedin
the sand; or (tovarythe metaphor) when an explosionof themorecomplex
brain elements (as in an epileptic fit) has left the less complex in
possession of the field, and the actions are not guided, or not wholly
guided, by conscious will. There are many varieties of this morbid
automatism. Thus a patient of this kind may write a word, say,
"horse," without any consciousness of writing at all (as in some slight
epileptiform seizures, where the act of writing is automatically continued);
or he may write " cow" when he wishes to write "horse" and not per-
ceive his error; or he may write "cow" for "horse," although he per.
ceiveS his error as he is in the act of committing it. Now, in both
these classes of cases, in the graphic automatism of mental abstraction
and the graphic automatism of cerebral disease, the passages written are
usually very sltort ; in the first case because the abstraction is transitory,
in the second case because the writing impulse is feeble. The anxious
classical honour-man could not scribble down a whole ode of Pindar
without becoming aware of what he was doing. And in the mor·
bid cases there is nothing but a residual impetus, soon exhausted, 'or
a painful effort of the imperfect will. Let us consider, however,
whether there are any cases which indicate that the unconscious graphic
impulse may be prolonged and in a sense systematic. We find that
precisely such cases are afforded by somnambulists, who not unfre.
quently write long compositions withmuch manual rapidity and accuracy.
Sometimes these compositions are a kind of written dream. rambling
and incoherent; sometimes they are on the level of waking thought;
sometimes they seem to overpass it, as when the solution of a
bafRing problem is written out during sleep.
We see, then, that automatic writing is a phenomenon liable to be
originated in various ways in the human organism. And we shall not,
therefore, be surprised to find that certain human beings are very much
more liable to its occurrence than their neighbours. For we are
gradually learning, (what was, of course, antecedently probable), that
the gamut of natural capacity is just as far-reaching when we deal
with things trifling and useless, as when we deal with the most impor-
tant and conspicuous things. The differences in human faculty were
noted first in matters important to human welfare; but they exist quite
as markedly in the obscurest corners of our constitution. There is the
horn muscle-reader just as surely as the born runner; there is the born
Digitized by Loo
224 On a Tel6patMc E:rplanation oj 80me [Nov. 28,
'Di8ualile'1' ojnumbwB-to take one of Mr. Galton's instances-just as
truly·as the bom painter or sculptor. We can set no definite limit
beforehand to any of the veins of unexplored faculty which crop up at
intervals from the subterranean realms of our being.
It will, therefore, by no means surprise us to learn that there are
certain persons who occasionally feel an impulse to write automatically
when they are merely sitting quiet with a pencil in their hands. This
is not really much more odd than that there should be persons who 0cca.-
sionally feel an impulse to imagine a tune inwardly when they are
merely sitting quiet with nothing to do. The imagined tune often
extemalises itself, so to speak, in rhythmical movements of the head
and body, involving a good deal of muscular action, of which the subject
is nearly or quite unconscious. The case of automatic writing, how-
ever, differs in this way from tho dumbly-imagined tune,-in tlui.t the
written words, falling immediately under the writer's eye, tend to arrest
his attention and to evoke a conscious train of thought,-an anticipa-
tionof what is coming next,which strongly tends tocheck the automatic
How. The little instrument called Planckette is mainly useful in pre-
cluding this kind of interruption. It is, of course, simply a piece of board
supported on three legs, one of which legs is a pencil, so that if a hand
be placed Hat on the board, and if that hand be then moved as though
tracing letters, the board will move accordingly, and the pencil will
rudely trace out the letters which the hand's movement figures. Of
course it is perfectly easy to write consciously with a Planchette, and
to be aware of the letters which the pencil is shaping. But the point is
that if there is a tendency already existing to automatic writing, it is
much easier to write automatically or unconsciously with the Pla.nchette
than without it. A slight tremor of the hand will set the Planchette
running, and the scrawled characters are generally quite too rough and
confused to catch the operator's eye, and suggestconscious anticipations.
Now suppose I am writing with a Pla.nchette. Let us consider
what theories are logically possible as to the source of what I write.
The words which I am writing may conceivably be :-
1. Consciously written in the ordinary way, and chosen by my
deliberate will.
2. Automatically written, and supphed by my own unconscious
cerebration, as in dreams.
3. Automatically written, but supplied by some higher unconscious
intelligence or faculty of my own, as in clairvoyance.
4. Automatically written, but supplied by talepathic impact from
other minds.
5. Automatically written, and supplied by " spirits" or extra-human
intelligences.
Now as to hypothesis (1) of course, we are all agreed. It is per-
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] So-called Spirituali8tic Phenomenll.
fectIy easy to write consciodlllf with Planchette, and to look as if you
were writing unconsciously. The proof (to others than the actual
writer) that the writing is automatic can only lie in the production of
names or facts unknown to the writer. But it is easy for competent
observers, under certain circumstances, to satisfy themselves that what
they write, although containing no facts new to them, has 1&Ot passed
through their consciousness. I am speaking at present, of course, of
cases where one person alone is writing, either with or without
Planchette.
The first incipient stage of automatism is described in the following
account by Mr. H. Arthur Smith, author of "The Principles of Equity,"
and a member of the Council of the Society for Psychical Research.
In experimenting alone, since, I have not succeeded in getting any
motion out of the instrument aliunde; but I think I have observed that
when my hand rested on it, the wrist being grasped by the other hand, 8.
word, on which I concentrated my attention, was written without any
conscious volitional effort. I am doubtful as to this, as it is a difficult thing
to be sure of the absence of volition, but such is my decided impression.
Next we have the experience of Mr. A. (a friend of the writer's).
who can often write words by mere attention without any voluntary
muscular action whatever, He fixes his mind on a word, and his hand
writes it with energy,-aB though hy an involuntary spasm or true
eacoetJu~B Bcribendi,-while he is studiously avoiding all intentional
impulse. This experience is interesting, as being precisely what
might· have been anticipated, as an intermediate step between
writing which is wholly voluntary and writing which is wholly
automatic. It seems probable that there might be a point at
which consciousness extended to the idea related with the move-
ment, but not to the movement itself, at which there was still
attention, but not voluntary muscular action. We have next to find
an example of writing wholly automatic, indicating if possible by
its very substance that it has not consciously passed through the
writer's mind. It is naturally not very easy to fix on written matter
of which we can affirm both that it is such as the'writer's unconsciouB
cerebration might have produced, and that it is such as his con-
Jicious cerebration had no share in modifying. There a.re frequent.
cases in which the writer affirms that he is not aware of the letters
which he is writing until he is in the act of writing them; or sometimes
until they are written. In such cases the nervous process which causes
the act of writing would seem to be unconscious; although the mental
act required to produce the formation of a letter is so simple and rapid
that it is hard to be sure that there was not a semi-consciousness of it
almost immediately forgotten. Sometimes however, in the midst of
Digitized by Coogle
226 On a Tekpatltic E:epkmation of 80me [Nov. 28,.:
'Writing of this kind the result of the involuntary movement of the pen
is a.ltogether puzzling to the writer,-is something which he has to ma.ke
out with difficulty a.s if it were the product of another brain ;-and in.
such cases we have, I think, to suppose that a rather complex process.
of unconscious cerebration has taken place. An excellent instance of
this kind has been sent to the Society by the above-mentioned Mr. A.
on whose accuracy we believe that we can thoroughly rely. We give
it in ~ull because it is a good instance of the capricious half-nonsense
which believers in Spiritualism often unhesitatingly refer to the agency-
of spirits, but which every intelligent Spiritualist would surely be glad
to be able to explain in some other way.
Th.e indisputable evidence for complex unconscious cerebration which-.
this case seems to me to furnish lies in the fact that here the Pla.nchette
'Writes not only unintelligible abbreviations but absolute anagrams of
sentences; o.ns.gra.ms, indeed, of the crudest kind, consisting of mere-
transpositions of letters, but still puzzles which the writer had to set
himself to decipher ab extra. The chances a.gainst drawing a group of
letters at random which will form several definite words and leave
no letters over, are, of course, very great indeed.
CLELIA, OR UNCONSCIOUS CEREBRATION.
The following experiment will be regarded by some as a beautiful proof
of unconscious cerebration; by others as an indubitable proof of the existence
()f spirits. Others, again, will, like myself, reniain halting between the twOo
opinions, with a decided leaning to the scientifically more orthodox. I
wished to know if I were myself an automatic writer, or so-called writing
medium. The experiment was made Easter, 1883, upon one day, and after
an interval of a week, continued upon three consecutive days; upon four
days in all. Upon the first day I became seriously interested; on the second
puzzled; on the third I seemed to be entering upon entirely novel experi-
ences, half awful and half romantic; upon the fourth the sublime ended very
painfully in the ridiculous.
FIRST DAY.
Q. 1. Upon what conditions may I learn from the unseen 1
~ 1. .
My hand immediately moved, though not to a very satisfying issue.
But, as my expectation of the answer had been that the condition
was a strict adherence to the absolute rule of right, holiness in short,
I took this answer to be at any rate consistent with my expectation.
and continued :
Q. 2. What is it that now movu my pen 1
A. 2. Religion.
Q. 3. What moves my pen to write that answer 1
A. 3. Conscience.
Digitized by Coogle
1884.J So-called Spiritualistic Pllenomena.
Q. 4. What is religion 1
A. 4. Worship.
227
Here arose a difficulty. Although I did not ex-peet either of these three.
answers, yet when the first few letters had been written I expected
the remainder of the word. 'l'his might vitiate the result. Cons-,
for instance, might have ended as consciousness, had I thought of
that word instead of thinking of conscience. As if to meet the·
difficulty, just as if an intelligence wished to prove by the mannel'
of answering that the answer could be due to it alone, and in no·
way and in no pa.rt to mere expectancy, my next question received'
a singular reply.
Q. 5. Worship of what 1
A. 5. wbwbwbwbwb-
Q. 6. What is the meaning of wb '?
A. 6. Win, buy.
Q. 7. What1
_ . .• 7
.._1 ,,'
- "upon the first day.· It was quit; a m~ute before it wrote as above.
Upon the analogy of wb, I proceeded.
Q. 2. What does F stand for 1
A. 2. Fe8i.
Q. 3. 11
A. 3. Ie.
Q. 4. i 1
A. 4. iv y.
Q. 5. 81
A. 5. sir.
Digitized by Loo
NOTE TO PAGE 226.
It should be stated here that besides the anagrams given in the
text, Mr. A. obtained also other anagrams; as wfvs yoitet (Testify!
vow!); ieb iov oufwle (I go, vow belief !); and in reply to the question
"How shall 1 believe 1" neb 16 vbliy ev 86e eaif ee (Believe by fear
even, 1866). How unlikely it is that all this was due to mere accident
may be seen by anyone who will take letters, (the vowels and con-
sonants roughly proportioned to the frequency of their actual use,) and
try to make up a series of handfuls completely into words possessing
any grammatical coherence or intelligible meaning. Now in Mr. A.'s
case all the professed anagrams (when legible) were found to be real
anagrams, (with one error of i for e); some of the sentences were real
answers to the questions; and not even the absurdest sentences were
wholly meaningless.
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] So-called Spiritualistic Pltenomena.
Q. 4. What is religion 1
A. 4. Worship.
227
Here arose a difficulty. Although 1 did not·ex-peet either of these threa
answers, yet when the first few letters had been written I expected
the remainder of the word. 'l'his might vitiate the result. Cons-,
for instance, might have ended as consciousness, had I thought of'
that word instead of thinking of conscience. As if to meet the-
difficulty, just as if an intelligence wished to prove by the manner
of answering that the answer could be due to it alone, and in no·
way and in no part to mere expectancy, my next question received:
a singular reply.
Q. 5. Worship of what 1
A. 5. wbwbwbwbwb-
Q. 6. What is the meaning of wb'l
A. 6. Win, buy.
Q. '1. What1
A. '1. Know (ledge).
Here I knew the letters which were to follow, and the pen made a.
sudden jerk, as if it were useless to continue.
Q. 8. How?
A.8._________
Here I was referred to the first answer. Although startled by the fifth.
and seventh answers, which at firBt wight seemed to show an
independent will and intelligence, yet, as I had learnt nothing new,
I concluded the whole to be due to unconscious cerebration and
expectancy. Having, then, put a few questions as to matters of
fact unknown to ll,)e, but easily discoverable, and the replies being:
either illegible or wrong, I was confirmed as to the complete-
naturalness of the phenomena.
SECOND DAY.
Q. 1. What is man 1 (i.e., What is the nature of his being 1)
A. 1. Flise.
My pen was at first very violently agitated, which had not been the case.
upon the first day. It was quite a minute before it wrote as above_
Upon the analogy of wb, I proceeded.
Q. 2. What does F stand for 1
A. 2. FeBi.
Q. 3. 11
A. 3. Ie.
Q. 4. i?
A. 4. i-v y.
Q. 5. s1
A. 5. sir.
Digitized by Coogle
228 On a Telepathic Efl:planation oj 80me [Nov. 28,
Q. 6. e1
A. 6. eye.
Fesi Ie ivy sir eye.
Q. 7. Is this an anagram 1
A. 7. Yes.
Q. 8. How many words in the answer 1
A. 8. 4.
I tried for a few minutes to solve it without success. Not caring to
spend much time in trying to solve what might have no solution, I
gave it up.
Q. 1. (rep.) What is man 1
A. 1. Teft Hasl Esble Lies.
THmD DA.Y.
This answer was written right off.
Q. 2. Ia.this an anagram 1
A. 2. Yes.
Q. 3. How many words in the answer 1
A. 3. V (i.e., 5).
Q. 4. What is the first word 1
.1\.. 4. See. .
Q. 5 What is the second word 1
A. 5. Eeeeee--
Q. 6. See 1 Must I interpret it myself 1
.A. 6. Try.
Presently I got out
'" Life is the less able."
Next I tried the anagram given upon the previ~us day, and at last obtained
" Every life is yes."
But my pen signified that it preferred the following order of words,
" Every life yes is."
Some remarks concerning the probable genesis of these oracular sentences
will be made in the sequel. I do not know whether any other interpretations
can be given to the letters. But these fulfil the requirements as to the
number of words; and the action of the pen, assisting in the process of
interpretation, pointing to the letters, accepting these and rejecting those
oCombinations, left no doubt in my mind that I had hit the meaning.
But now I was so astonished at the apparently independent will and
intellect manifested in forming the above anagrams that, for the nonce, I
became a complete convert to Spiritualism ; and it was not without something
.of awe, that I put :-
Q. 7. Who art thou 1
A. 7. OZelia II
Q. 8. Thou art a woman 1
A. 8. Yes.
Q. 9. Hast thou ever lived upon the earth 1
.A. 9. No.
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] &-calkd Spirituali8tic Phenomena. 229
Q. 10. Wilt thou 7
A. 10. Yes.
Q. 11. When 7
A. 11. Six ye&l'l.
Q. 12. Wherefore dost thou speak with me 7•
A. 12. E if Clelia e 1.
It has been already said that when I experimented I had a certain
fever of speculative pessimism upon me. It was, therefore, with
increasing excitement that I perceived as an interpretation
" I Clelia feel."
But upon my asking whether this was right " Clelia " wrote
again thus
Q. 13. Is 20 your age 7
A. 13. eX). (She was eternal.)
Q. 14. Then 20 what 1
A. 14. Words.
" E if Clelia e 1."
20
I was obliged to reserve the reception of these till the morrow. I am
writing not a tale of Edgar Poe, but a scientific narration of fact. Therefore,
nothing shall be said of my feelings and ideas upon this occasion. It was
evident that I was in communication with a-beautiful1-spirit' of romantic
name, who in six years time was to be born upon the earth. My snatches
of sleep that night were few and far between.
FOURTH DA.Y.
I began my questioning in the same exalted mood, but, to my surprise.
did not get the same answer.
Q. 1; Wherefore dost thou speak with me 7
A. 1. [Wavy line. Repetition and emphasis: Wherefore dost thou speak
with me?]
However, I thought this "a solemn and piercing rejoinder," and
proceeded to consider my motives, and purify them from all earthly
and unspiritual alloy. Then-
Q. 2. Wherefore dost thou answer me 1
A. 2. [Wavy line. Wherefore dost thou answer me ?]
Q. 3. Do I answer myself 1
A.3.'Yes.
Q. 4. Is Clelia here 1
A. 4. No.
Q. 5. Who is it, then, now here 1
A. 5. Nobody.
Q. 6. Does Clelia exist 1
A. 6. No.
Digitized by Coogle
230 On a TelepatMc Ezplanation 01 80me
Q. 7. With whom did I speak yesterday 1
.A. 7. No one.
Q. 8. Why didst thou lie 1
.A. 8. [Wavy line. Why didst thou lie 1]
Q. 9. Do souls exist in another world 1
A. 9. mb.
Q. 10. What does m b mean 1
A. 10. May be.
'Q. 11. What was that last answer of yesterday again 1
1... 11. Eif Clella 0 el,
i.e., I feel no Clella ;
or, the original may have been
" I Clella flee."
And the 20 meant no, negativing my interpretation.
My pen now became altogether wild, sometimes affirming and
sometimes denying the existence of Clelia, and finally performed as
follows:- .
ceo a.e.
I wrote ce, and u.c., and placed my pen in the middle between
them. It refused to point to either, but upon my writing "partly
each" above, my pen underlined the words.
POSSIBLE ScIENTIFIC EXPLANA.TION.
The desire for an answer was sufficient in the first place to put brain and
:muscles in motion.
A desire soon arose to avoid the effect of expectancy. To meet this desire
the brain unconsciously formed anagrams ; one of these anagrams, "Life is
the less able," is a sentiment only too frequently met with in the spiritualistic
literature which I had been lately reading.
The other, "Every life is yes," is similarly derived from Spinoza, whom
I had just been reading. He has much about all existence being affirmation
.of the Deity. .
Thus both these expressions were imbedded in my brain by late reading,
~d this fact supports the supposition of u.c. being the agent.
With regard to "Clella," I had written cl when the rest of the word
-flashed upon me, and this may have vitiated the answer through expectancy ;
oand all that followed about Clella may have been a structure upon a false
foundation; which, therefo~, my brain having unconsciously considered
during the night, proceeded upon the next day to demolish.
Digitized by Coogle
1884~J 'So-called Spiritualistic Phenomma. 231
POSSIBLE' SPIRITUALISTIC INTERPRETATION.
That upon the first day it was perhaps u.c. acting for the most part.
But on the second day, the great agitation of the hand, the complicated
intellectual process, the insistance (" See," "Try") would point to a spirit's
<>perating upon the cerebral particles.
That this spirit chose to call he~elf Olelia, and. that having manifested
herself she fled, leaving me upon the fourth day to the unassisted operation
of u. cerebration.
.Although as I have said, I incline strongly to the scientific explanation,
that inclination does not rise to absolute belief. But I must confess I should
not expect myself to be able to hit upon the right explanation, and it is with
the hope that some psychologist may clearly explain it that I wish to call
attention to it. There is another reason, more singular, for my calling
attention to it, namely, that the automatic power has left me, and almost the
last anagram I received was
Wvfs yoitet- testify, vow.
ScmNTIFIC EXPLANATION OF WHY THE POWER HAB CEABED.
The ever present desire not to write a letter which I expect beforehand,
acts as a neutraliser to all power of writing. Seeing myself about to form a
letter, say 0, I fear that I have expected it, thereupon the pen at once stops,
or sometimes, between the opposing tendencies, describes a curve. This
fear was not thought of in the first experiment, and reasoning upon the
phenomena has since paralysed the power of producing them.
SPIRITUALISTIC INTERPRETATION.
The spirit is weary of my unbelief, and I am weary of her coquetry.
Note 1. I simply took a pen into my hand. Since, I have tried with the
Planchette, but without any success.
Note 2. I have never known anyone named Olelia.
Note 3. I have not been in the habit of writing anagrama, though I have
done so in boyhood.
It will be observed that Mr. A., Ghough quite alive to the mode
(If interpretation ;hich we have here adopted, retains himself some
little doubt as to the intervention at one point of an external agency.
This seems mainly owing to the subjective sensation of an agitation. or
insi&tance, 'Which seemed to him too powerful to have existed in his own
mind entirely below the threshold of consciousness.Were such agitation
never more marked than in the present case, it need not, perhaps, inter-
pose much difficulty; but we shall come to instances where it becomes
dominant and violent to a perplexing extent. At present we must
merely notice that the stream of automatism does not always run
smoothlyon.'
We now come to the case where several persons, with their handa
Digitized by Coogle
232 On a Telepathic E~lanatiolJ of Bome [Nov. 28~
united on the Planchette, obtain answers which are not consciously
present to the minds of anyone of them.
But here we must first ask ourselves: Is this in reality a new case 1
Will it not be simpler to suppose that one agent alone is concerned,
and that the rest are merely passive1
Undoubtedly this would be simpler; and this would be what we
might have expected. But actual experiment seems to show that there
are cases where motion does not ensue when either A or B places his
hand on Plauchette, but does ensue when both so place their hands.
If the motion which ensues is of a merely random kind-no definite
words being written-we may refer it to a mere summation of two
ordinary unconscious muscular actions, either of which actions singly
was unable to move the machine. But if definite words are written it
is hard to explain this by a mere summation either of physical or
psychical inHuences. Why should the same word arise in both minds 1
Why should both hands move automatica.lly in the same direction 1 If
A's hand will not write a word when he alone touches the Plauchette,
why should the superposition of B's :finger-equally powerless alone-.
lead to the production of rapid sentences 1
It may still be suggested that B's finger may contribute just the
initial Blwv6 which A needs in order to set his own more complex
automatism going. But this supposition would hardly meet the cases
where Planchette will write /OT no on6 but .A, and /OT A only JUBt BO
long as B touclUJB it alBo; stopping short in its vigorous career the
instant that B's finger is removed. Here the first shove has long since
been given; the writing has begun; yet B's withdrawal stops it,
although B can get no writing himself, either alone or with 0, D, &c.
In cases like this where a. novel effect is produced by the juxtapo-
sition of two quantities whose simple summation is not antecedently
seen to be capable of producing the said effect, two hypotheses suggest
themselves. The summation of the two quantities may raise their
actual volume to a point necessary for the appearance of some new
force or quality, which may have been virtually or actually present in.
each quantity severally, though in a degree beneath our limit of obser-
vation. Or, again, the juxtaposition may in itseif involve alteration
as well as addition; the two bodies may influence each other
and give rise to phenomena which neither of them could have origi-
nated alone.
The Spiritualist theory of Plauchette-writing assumes the fonner of
these two hypotheses,--something in this way. There is an external
agency which desires that the word "Byron" should be written. It.
acts by possessing itself of a certain internal force, which varies in each
individual. That force in A is insufficient to enable the "spirit" to
write the word through A's hand. The same is.the case with B.
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] ,Sarcalled SpiritualiBtic Phenomena. 233
But when the two hands can be used to guide the same pencil, the
" spirit" uses the sum of both forces, and the pencil moves. More than
two persons may be necessary. C's force and D's force may have to be
added to A's and B's. On the other hs.nd, E's force may be sufficient
by itself to enable the external agency to write the word, either by
means of Planchette, or by direction imposed lJpon the pen.
On the other hand, I shall, at present, prefer to conjecturo
that there may have been some development of a new energy of a
telepathic character. In some unknown way, I would suggest, the two
minds are acting on each other, and the writing is a resultant of their
unconscious mutual play. Neither theory is at present capable of direct
proof. They are merely of use to direct our observation to the important
points in the cases submitted to us. Here is another from Mr. H. A.
Smith, who has had the patience to analyse many of these communica-
tions, which, be it observed, are generally quite equally puerile what
ever be the operator's own level of intelligence.
Mr. Smith and his nephew placed their hands on the Planchette,
and a purely fantastic name was given as that of the communicating
agency.
Mr. Smith asked:
"Where didyou live7" A. "Wem." This name was quite unknown to
any of us. I am sure it was to myself, and as sure of the word of the others
as of that of anyone I know.
ls it decided who is to be Archbishop of Canterbury 7 A. Yes.
Who 7 A. " Durham." As none of us remembered his name, we-
asked.
What is his name 7 A. "Lightfoot." Of course, how far the main
statement is correct, I don't know. The curiosity at the time rested in the-
fact that the name was given which none of us could recall, but was found
to be right.
Now, this is just one of the cases which a less wary observer might
have brought. forward as evidence of spirit agency. An identity, it
would be said, manifested itself, and gave an address which none present
had ever heard.· But I venture to say that there cannot be any real
proof that an educated person has nevel" heard of Wem. A permanent
recorded fact, like the name of a town which is to be found (for instance)
in Bradshaw's Guide, may at any moment have been presented to Mr.
Smith's eye, and have found an unobtrusive lodgment in his brair.o..
The phenomena of dreams should teach us to -be slow to draw nega-
tive conclusions as to what facts may not have thus imprinted them-
selves unconsciously on the sensorium. For we find, by the
accounts sent to us, that a class of dreams on which Aber-
crombie and others have laid stress, tends to recur pretty frequently
at the present day. The type is this: A man has mislaid an
T
Digitized by Coogle
234 On a Telepathic Eteplanation (If 80me [Nov. 28,
important letter. He looks in all likely places in vain; then dreams
that it is in some special and very unlikely place; and finds it there
when he wakes. Now here we must assume that he ha.s put the letter
in the unlikely place in what we call "a fit of absence"; but that
the distra.ction of mind which has prevented the act from forming part
of his current of normal memory has not prevented it from recording
itself in his bra.in, and reappearing in sleep, when the correlated
elements (so to say) in his bra.in have been excited by his fruitless
search.
I hold, therefore, that the word "Wem" may have been already
lodged in the mind of one of the writers, and may have pre-
sented itself at this particular moment by what is called accident; that
is to say, by virtue of some still more underground form of that same
sub-conscious action which often brings some well known but irrelevant
name or word suddenly into our consciousness, especially in moments of
inaction or drowsiness.
In the answers" Durham" and" Lightfoot," we have the same kind
of attempt to meet expectation which we noticed in Mr. A's ca.se. This
reminds us of ca.ses where in a dream we ask a question with vivid
curiosity, and are astonished at the reply ; which nevertheless proceeds
from our,elve8 as undoubtedly as does the inquiry.
This preliminary discussion has, it may be hoped, left us with some
notion of the kind of opportunity which Planchette-writing affords for
telepathic action. We have, perhaps, formed the conception of an ob-
scure ocean of sub-conscious mental action ;-hidden waves whose
shifting summits rise for a moment into our view and disappear. And we
shaJl not be surprised to find that any influences which may habitually
stream from one mind to another may manifest themselves here more
eaBily, though perhaps more confUledly, than in the upper air of our
full waking intelligence.
I will begin with a ca.se where the intermingling of telepathy with
()rdinary unconscious cerebration is doubtful, but not impossible.
From Mr. H. Arthur Smith, 2, New Square, Lincoln's Inn, W.O.
Present-H. A. Smith (A), R. A. H. Bickford-Smith (B), another
gentleman (0), and two ladies (D and E).
R. A. H. B.-S. having, on previous occa.sions, exhibited considerable
aptitude for automatic writing with a Planchette, it was designed to apply
this instrument as a means of testing the transference of thoughts. No exact
record having been made at the time of the whole of the resu,lts obtained, it
would be of little service now to record isolated instances of success.
.Sometimes names thought of were correctly reproduced, sometimes not; but
the proportion of successes to failures cannot now be accurately stated. The
following incident, however, very much struck us at the time, and seems
worthy of record.
Our method of procedure at the time was as follows :-0, Bitting at one
Digilizedb,.Google
1884.] So-called Spiritllalistic Phenomena. 235
end of the room, wrote down a name of an author, showing it to no one in
the room ; B had his hands on the Planchette, no one else being in contact
,with him or it. 0 fixed his attention on the written name, and our design
was to see whether that name would be written through the medium of the
Planchette. The ladies were meanwhile sewing in silence, and taking no part
in the experiments. It happened that one of the ladies had at the time,
owing to some painful family circumstances, the name of a gentleman (not
present) painfully impre88ed on her mind. The name was not a common one,
and though all present knew something of the circumstances, they had not
been mentioned during the evening, and no one had mentioned the name in
question, which we will call "Bolton." 0 then wrote "Dickens" on his
paper, and was "willing" B with all his might to write this, when, to the
surprise of everyone, Planchette rapidly wrote " Bolton." This was not only
'surprising to us, but painful; and no comments were made at the time, the
subject being changed as rapidly as possible. It would appear from this that
the effect of O's volitional concentration was overmatched by the intensity of
the lady's thought, though not directed to the same object.
H. ARTHUR SMITH•
.April zru", 1883.
Now here I think that it is possible that the lady's mental action may
have contributed, as Mr. Smith supposes, to the very result which she
so little desired. Perhaps, however, 'the word written may have
,emanated from the unconscious cerebration of the writer alone.
In our next case, assumi~ the accuracy of the account, we are
almost forced to adopt the telepathic hypotht'.sis. The conditions are much
the same as in our own recorded experiments ;-the minds of the agents,
that is to say, are intently fixed on some word or picture, and the per-
cipients (who are represented by the unconscious writers with the
Planchette) reproduce a corresponding word or initial. The account is
from Mrs. Alfred Moberly, Tynwald, Hythe, Kent, and it is corrobo-
rated, with some additional examples, by two other ladies present at
the time.
May 9th, 1884.
The operators were placed out of sight of the rest of the company, who
selected-in silence-a photograph, one of an albumful, and fixed their
attention on it. We-the operators-were requested to keep our minds a
blank as far as p088ible and follow the first involuntary motion of the
Planchette. In three out of five cases it wrote the name or initial or some
word descriptive of the selected portrait. We also obtained the signatures
to letters selected in the same manner. We both knew perfectly well that
106 were writing-not the spirits, as the rest of the company persist to this
day in believing-but had only the slightest idea what the words might
prove to be.
We have tried it since, and generally with some curious result. A
crucial test was offered by two gentlemen in the form of a question to
which we couldn't possibly guess the answer. "Where's Toosey 1' The
Digitized by G6og1e
236 On a Telepathic Explanation oj Bome [Nov. 28,
answer came "In Vauxhall Road." " Toosey," they explained, was a pet.
terrier who had disappeared; s).lspicion attaching to a plumber living in the
road mentioned, who had been workiI:1g at the house and whose departure
coincided with Toosey's.
Of course, in the case of the inquiry after the lost dog, we may sup-
pose that the answer given came from the questioner's own mind. Mrs.
Moberly and her friend;; seem to have been quite aware of this; and
were little likely to fall into the not uncommon error of asking
Planchette, for instance, what horse will win the Derby, and staking,
perhaps, some pecuniary consideration on the extremely illusory
reply.
I shall devote the next case-the last which I shall cite at present--
to the illustration of this special point, namely, the manner in which the
questioner's own anticipation is reflected in the reply, even when that
reply professes itself to come, or is supposed by the experimenters to
come, from some independent source. And since it is always satisfac-
tory if one can illustrate one's own view by a statement whose author
intended it to prove a view directly opposite, I will take a case which
was sent to Professor Barrett by a convinced Spiritualist, as a proof of
the reality of intercourse with the departed. The names were stated ;
but as I am citing the narrative in a sense differing from that which its
writer meant it to qear, I will not now give them, and will only say
that all three persons concerned are of very good position.
March 22nd.
One evening, a few years ago, I had with me two young friends.
Mademoiselle de P., now Lady S.• and Mademoiselle de P--n, her cousin,
who is Grande Gouvernante to the daughters of the Crown Prince of
Germany, both complete unbelievers in Spiritualism. To amuse them,
however, as I sometimes write under occult Influence, I asked Mademoiselle
de P., to fix her thoughts on some one I did not know, to see whether my
hand would write something true concerning him or her. She did as I
requested, and soon my hand wrote, "His life has been overshadowed by
the act of another." She looked astoni.shed and said that the person she
was thinking of had had a brother to whom he was much attached, who had
committed suicide.
She then asked if she could be told where she had met him for the first
time. My hand wrote, "It was at the foot of a marble staircase splendidly
illum.inated by a July sun; as you went up he gazed after you as one gazes on
the track of a dazzling meteor." This also was correct; she had met him, she
said, for the first time at the foot of the staircase of the Ministere de Ill.
Guerre, in Paris, and her cousin added that he had been much struck with
her. The only inaccuracies were that the staircase was not a marble but a
stone one, and that it was a September sun that shone. .
When I write in this way the ideas do not come (consciously at least) from
my mind, and my hand seems to be gently moved by some external influence.
Digitized by Loo
1884.] So-called Spiritualistic Phenomena. 237
Now I confess that this description of the staircase,and the meteor,
and so forth, suggests to me as its source, not so much a male spirit
disembodied as a female spirit still in the flesh.
The romantic tone of the communication seems to reflect the mood
of the persons present; and the slight inaccuracies are just such as we
have found to occur in the experimental transference of words, &c., from
one mind to another.
But here I must, for the present, pause. We have reached a stage
at which the nature of the problem presented to us is somewhat
changing. Up to the present point we have been aiming mainly at two
things. The operation of unconscious cerebration in automatic writing
has been illustrated with some fulness ; and it has thus been shown that
some of the effects which Spiritualists ascribe to spirits are ~eferable to
the unconscious action of the writer's own mind.
And we have seen unconscious cerebration begin to blend, as it were,
into telepathic influence, and have noted certain cases where, judging
by the analo6J of our previous experiments, Thought-tranSference
suggests itself as the most probable explanation.
In a second paper I hope to give some more strongly-marked cases of
telepathic influence, showing itself through automatic writing and other
unconscious muscular movements. It has been by tracking the writer's
own unconscious cerebration as far as it would carry us that we have
begun clearly to recognise a limit beyond which that explanation no
longer holds good. We have next to explore the full extent of the field
which telepathic communication covers, and to consider whether there
is still a residuum of phenomena which need the intervention of
intelligences other than the intelligences of living and breathing men.
