{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/psypioneer.iapsop.com\/psypioneer_v4_n11_nov_2008.pdf","mytitle":"Psypioneer V4 N11 Nov 2008","mylang":"de"}
PSYPIONEER
Founded by Leslie Price Editor Paul J. Gaunt
Volume 4, No 11: November 2008
Available as an Electronic Newsletter
Highlights of this issue:
Notes by the way…
Access Denied – Leslie Price 251
Hippolyte Léon Denizard Rivail – Aksakof’s critique 253
Spiritualism in the light of Theosophy – Countess Constance Wachtmeister 259
The Work of Mrs Henry Sidgwick 270
Helen Duncan born 1895, 1897 or 1898? – The Result 275
The Origins of LIGHT 276
Books for sale 282
How to obtain this Newsletter by email 283
=========================================
Notes by the way…
ACCESS DENIED
It is feared that a significant part of the Victorian journals given by Stansted to the SPR
have been placed beyond the reach of students for the foreseeable future. [See previous
issue1
]
An SPR council member, who was among the limited number sent the list of volumes
surplus to the SPR’s own archive, bought them and thus averted further dispersal.
However, he has rejected any suggestion of giving access to Psypioneer to copy material
in the volumes, pointing out that they are fragile, and might be damaged by the process.
1
http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.10October08..pdf
251
It is quite true that photocopying or scanning old volumes does expose the spines in
particular to damage. This is one reason why Psypioneer makes electronic copies of
significant material - so that henceforth it is freely available, without anyone needing to
handle the volume again for those pages. The pages from “Spiritual Notes” vol. 2 in this
issue are typical examples. They came from a fragile volume belonging to another
charity.
Of course a private individual who buys Victorian Spiritualist periodical volumes is not a
charity, and does not acquire any obligation to give any access to anyone. He can take the
same view as Bilbo, and consider “It’s mine, my precious, it came to me.”
But the impression so far created by this affair is not a pleasant one. A religious body, to
whom believers had left precious historical works, decided to dispose of them, as indeed
all bodies must sometimes, for reasons of space or otherwise. If they were a museum,
they might be expected to follow the code of practice of the Museums Association, which
advises that in disposals, preference should be given to public bodies. But at least they
gave it to a registered charity in a similar line of work, though not apparently with any
conditions attached to the donation.
The recipient, an academic body ( www.spr.ac.uk) after adding some volumes to its
archives in Cambridge (where, it must be said, they are not easily accessible ) offered
most of the rest initially for sale to certain members of its own Council, one of whom
acquired some treasures indeed. Although these are basic sources on Spiritualist origins,
these sold volumes are now inaccessible to Spiritualists, and indeed to anyone else, such
as universities like Freiburg where pioneers have been studied. That, surely, was not the
intention of the donor.
It is one thing for a charity to sell off to its members, books left to it by deceased
members, but these were donations by another nationally known and legally registered
body with thousands of its own members, some of whom would have rejoiced to have the
opportunity of even seeing such volumes.
Is it too late for the organisations concerned to come up with some arrangements that will
put these volumes to better use? Or is it at the very least, the opportunity to put in place a
protocol to ensure that the same thing does not recur in years to come? It is surely
important that those giving material to psychic organisations can have confidence it will
be handled properly.
LESLIE PRICE
_______________
252
Hippolyte Léon Denizard Rivail
Better known under the pseudonym of
Allan Kardec
1804-1869
Introductory Note by Psypioneer:
Allan Kardec introduced a new doctrine called ‘Spiritism’ whose followers are
‘Spiritists’. Though often used synonymously with ‘Spiritualism,’ the former (also known
as Kardecism) is basically principled on reincarnation, teaching that the spirit-soul may
undergo numerous incarnations in different mortal forms. Early Spiritualism, in contrast,
generally accepted but one mortal birth, with progress through eternity in spiritual states.
Kardec is considered a major exponent of reincarnation doctrine in the nineteenth
century.
Alexander Aksakof (1832-1903) was a Russian pioneer Spiritualist2
and
Psychical Researcher from Repiofka, Russia. Though involved in experiments in
mediumship, especially physical manifestations,3
he was not sympathetic to reincarnation
as advocated by Allan Kardec and his followers. When Aksakof came to England in 1875
the British weekly journal The Spiritualist (1869 – 1881c)4
published Aksakof’s research
into the historical origin of Kardec’s book, Le Livre des Esprits (The Spirits’ Book)
issued in 1856, which had marked the beginning of Kardec’s Spiritism.
Printed below is the original full article taken from The Spiritualist, August 13,
1875. Page 74 -75: This gave rise to a considerable controversy on which we will report
in the New Year, so readers are cautioned not to reach premature conclusions on this
matter.
2
The doctrine of Spiritualism was introduced into Russia by M. Boltine and others in 1854 who had
witnessed Spiritualistic phenomena abroad. These efforts according, to Emma Hardinge Britten in her
“Nineteenth Century Miracles” 1883, paved the way for the first visit to St. Petersburg by D.D. Home,
about 1861 (page 349). Strictly, 1861 would not have been Home’s first visit to Russia. At St Petersburg on
August 1st
1858, Daniel Dunglas Home married into the Russian aristocracy, his bride being Alexandrina
de Kroll, daughter of General Count de Kroll and god-daughter of the late Tsar Nicholas. Alexandrina,
seventeen, was known as Sacha and on May 8th
1859 their son Gregoire was born. Sacha died 3rd
July 1862
ironically of the same disease, tuberculosis that was to eventually kill her husband Daniel on 21st
June
1886. For more on Home, see: - “Second thoughts on the first Psychic” page 181: -
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP2.8August06..pdf
3
Aksakof gave the Russian public its first book on Spiritualism, entitled “Spiritualism and Science” 1872.
E.H.B., “Nineteenth Century Miracles” 1883 page 354
4
“The Spiritualist” was first published as: - “The Spiritualist Newspaper”: A Record of the Progress of the
Science and Ethics of Spiritualism. Published by W.H. Harrison
253
RESEARCHES ON THE HISTORICAL ORIGIN OF
THE REINCARNATION SPECULATIONS OF
FRENCH SPIRITUALISTS
BY THE HON. ALEXANDRE AKSAKOF, RUSSIAN IMPERIAL COUNCILLOR AND
CHEVALIER OF THE ORDER OF ST. STANISLAS
In view of the approaching publication of translations in the English language of the
works of Allan Kardec, of which the principal volume, The Spirits' Book, is already out,
I feel it my duty to lay before the English public the result of my researches in the
direction of the origin of the dogma of Reincarnation. When “Spiritism,” newly baptised
with this name, and embodied in form of a doctrine by Kardec, began to spread in France,
nothing astonished me more than the divergence of this doctrine from that of
“Spiritualism,” touching the point of Reincarnation. This divergence was the more
strange because the sources of the contradictory affirmations claim to be the same,
namely, the spirit-world and communications given by spirits. As Spiritism was born in
1856 with the publication of the Book of Spirits, it is clear that to solve this enigma it
was necessary to begin with the historical origin of this book. It is remarkable that
nowhere, either in this volume or in any of the others, does Kardec give upon this head
the slightest detail. And why was this? the essential point in all serious criticism being to
know before all things how such a book came into existence?
As I did not live in Paris, it was difficult for me to procure the necessary information;
all that I could learn was that a certain somnambulist, known by the name of Celina
Japhet, had contributed largely to the work, but that she had been dead for a long time.
During my stay in Paris in 1873, I explained to a Spiritualistic friend my regret that I had
never met this somnambulist in life, to which he replied that he had also heard that she
was dead, but he doubted whether the rumour was true; also that he had reason to
suppose that this was nothing but a rumour spread abroad by the Spiritists, and that it
would be well if I made further personal inquiry. He gave me a former address of Mme.
Japhet, and what was my astonishment and joy to find her in perfect health! When I told
her of my surprise, she replied that it was nothing new to her, for the Spiritists were
actually making her pass for a dead person. Here is the substance of the information
which she was obliging enough to give me.
Mdlle. Celina Bequet was a natural somnambulist from her earliest years. At sixteen
or seventeen years of age, while residing with her parents in Paris; she was mesmerised
for the first time by Ricard, and three times by him in all. In 1841 she was living i n the
provinces, and was attacked with a serious illness; having lost the use of her legs, she was
confined to her bed for twenty-seven months; afterwards, having lost all hope of relief
from medicine, she was mesmerised and put to sleep by her brother; she then prescribed
the necessary remedies, and after treatment for six weeks she got out of bed and could
walk with the aid of crutches, which she was obliged to use for eleven months. At last, in
1843, she had entirely recovered her health.
254
In 1845 she went to Paris in search of M. Ricard, and she made the acquaintance of
M. Roustan at the house of M. Millet, a mesmerist. She then took, for family
considerations, the name of Japhet; and became a professional somnambulist under the
control of M. Roustan, and remained in that position till about 1848. She gave, under her
assumed name, medical advice under the spiritual direction of her grandfather, who had
been a doctor, and also of Hahnemann and of Mesmer, from whom she received a great
number of communications. In thus manner in 1846 the doctrine of Reincarnation was
given to her by the spirits of her grandfather, St. Theresa, and others. (As the som-
nambulic powers of Madame Japhet were developed under the mesmeric influence of M.
Roustan, it may be well to remark in this place that M. Roustan himself believed in the
plurality of terrestrial existences. See Cahagnet's Sanctuaire au Spiritualisme - Paris,
1850 - page 164: since dated August 24th, 1848.)
In 1849 Madame d’Abnour, on her return from America, desired to form a circle for
spiritual phenomena, of which she had lately been a witness. For this purpose she called
upon M. de Guldenstubbe, by whom M. Roustan and Celina Japhet were asked to
become members of his spirit-circle. (See the German edition of Pneumatologie Positive
of the Baron de Guldenstubbe-Stuttgart, 1870-page 87.) This circle was also joined by the
Abbé Chatel and the three Demoiselles Bauvrais; it consisted therefore of nine persons.
This circle met once a week at the house of Madame Japhet, 46, Rue des Martyrs;
afterwards, almost up to the time of the war of 1870, it met twice a week. In 1855 the
circle was composed of the following persons: M. Tierry, M. Taillandier, M. Tillman, M.
Ramon de la Sagia (since dead), Messrs. Sardou (father and son), Madame Japhet, and
M. Roustan, who continued a member of it until about 1864. They began by making a
chain, American fashion, in form of a horse-shoe, round Madame Celina, and they
obtained spiritual phenomena more or less remarkable; but soon Madame Celina
developed as a writing medium, and it was through that channel that the greater part of
the communications were obtained.
In 1856 she met M. Denizard Rivail, introduced by M. Victorien Sardou. He
correlated the materials by a number of questions, himself arranged the whole in
systematic order, and published The Spirits' Book without ever mentioning the name of
Madame C. Japhet, although three-quarters of this book had been given through her
mediumship. The rest was obtained from communications through Madame Bodin, who
belonged to another spirit-circle. She is not mentioned except on the last page of the first
number of the Revue Spirite, where, in consequence of the number of reproaches that
were addressed to him, he makes a short mention of her. As he was also attached to an
important journal, L' Univers, he published his book under the names which he had borne
in his two previous existences. One of these names was Allan - a fact revealed to him by
Madame Japhet, and the other name of Kardec was revealed to him by the medium Roze.
After the publication of the Book of Spirits, of which Kardec did not even present one
copy to Madame Japhet, he quitted the circle and arranged another in his own house, M.
Roze being the medium. When he thus left he possessed a mass of manuscript which he
had carried off from the house of Madame Japhet, and he availed himself of the right of
an editor by never giving it back again. To the numerous requests for its return which
255
were made to him, he contented himself by replying, “Let her go to law with me.” These
manuscripts were to some extent useful in the compilation of the Book of Mediums, of
which all the contents, so says Madame Japhet, had been obtained through medial
communications.
It would be essential in order to complete this article to review the ideas on pre-
existence and on reincarnation which were strongly in vogue in France just before 1850.
An abstract of these will be found in the work of M. Pezzani on The Plurality of
Existences. The works of Cahagnet should also be consulted. As I am now away from my
library, it is impossible for me to give the relative points exactly.
In addition to the foregoing, supplementary details bearing upon the origin of The
Book of Spirits, and the different points connected therewith, can and ought to be
obtained from living witnesses to throw light upon the conception and birth of this book,
such as Madame Japhet, Mdlle. de Guldenstubbe, M. Sardou, and M. Taillandier. The last
continues up to the present time to work with Madame Japhet as a medium; she is still in
possession of her somnambulic powers, and continues to give consultations. She sends
herself off to sleep by means of objects which have been mesmerised by M. Roustan. I
think it a duty on this occasion to testify to the excellence of her lucidity. I consulted her
about myself, and she gave me exact information as to a local malady and as to the state
of my health in general. Now is it not astonishing that this remarkable person, who has
done so much for French Spiritism, should be living entirely unknown for twenty years,
and no notice or remark made about her? Instead of being the centre of public attention
she is totally ignored; in fact, they have buried her alive! Let us hope that the reparation
which is due to her will be made one day. “Spiritualism” might, in this matter, offer a
noble example to “Spiritism.” *
[* The address of Madame Japhet is Paris, Rue des Enfants Rouges, G.]
Now to return to the question of Reincarnation. I leave it to English critics to draw
their deductions from the facts which I unravelled by my researches, incomplete though
they be; I will do no more than throw out the following ideas: That the propagation of
this doctrine by Kardec was a matter of strong predilection is clear; from the beginning
Reincarnation has not been presented as an object of study, but as a dogma. To sustain it
he has always had recourse to writing mediums, who, it is well known, pass so easily
under the psychological influence of preconceived ideas; and Spiritism has engendered
such in profusion; whereas through physical mediums the communications are not only
more objective, but always contrary to the doctrine of Reincarnation. Kardec adopted the
plan of always disparaging this kind of mediumship, alleging as a pretest its moral
inferiority. Thus the experimental method is altogether unknown in Spiritism; for twenty
years it has not made the slightest intrinsic progress, and it has remained in total
ignorance of Anglo-American Spiritualism! The few French physical mediums who
developed their powers in spite of Kardec, were never mentioned by him in the Revue;
they remained almost unknown to Spiritists, and only because their spirits did not support
the doctrine of Reincarnation! Thus Camille Bredif, a very good physical medium,
acquired celebrity only in consequence of his visit to St. Petersburg. I do not remember
256
ever to have seen in the Revue Spirite the slightest notice of him, still less any description
of manifestations produced in his presence. Knowing the reputation of Mr. Home, Kardec
made several overtures to get him upon his side; he had two interviews with him for this
purpose, but as Mr. Home told him that the spirits who had communicated through him
never endorsed the idea of Reincarnation, he thenceforth ignored him, thereby
disregarding the value of the manifestations which were produced in his presence. I have
upon this head a letter from Mr. Home, although at the present moment it is not within
reach.
In conclusion, it is scarcely necessary to point out that all that I have herein stated
does not affect the question of Reincarnation, considered upon its own merits, but only
concerns the causes of its origin and of its propagation as Spiritism.
Chateau de Krotofka, Russia, July 24th, 1875
___________
Points of interest noted by Paul Gaunt
The name ALLAN KARDEC to which I referred as a pseudonym in the article heading
has various implications.
In the above article it is stated by Aksakof that the names Allan & Kardec are Rivail’s
names of two previous existences: -
As he was also attached to an important journal, L' Univers, he published his
book under the names which he had borne in his two previous existences. One of
these names was Allan - a fact revealed to him by Madame Japhet, and the other
name of Kardec was revealed to him by the medium Roze.
Translator’s Preface5
to the The Spirits’ Book has this to say about his names: -
“To the book in which you will embody our instructions,” continued the
communicating intelligences, “you will give, as being our work rather than
yours, the title of Le Livre des Esprits (The Spirits' Book); and you will
publish it, not under your own name, but under the pseudonym of ALLAN
KARDEC.6
Keep your own name of Rivail for your own books already
published; but take and keep the name we have now given you for the book
you are about to publish by our order, and, in general, for all the work that you
will have to do in the fulfilment of the mission which, as we have already told
5
Anna Blackwell 1875
6
An old Boston name in his mother’s family
257
you, has been confided to you by Providence, and which will gradually open
before you as you proceed in it under our guidance.”7
Many of the websites mentioning Kardec state incorrectly that the The Spirits’ Book was
first published in 1857. In fact, a Revised Edition was issued in 1857.
Although Kardec’s 1856 book is generally referred to as The Spirits’ Book it had a
preceding co-title heading of ‘Spiritualist Philosophy’. In that longer book title, the
coupling of ‘Spiritualist’ with the introduction of the new word ‘Spiritist’ inevitably
caused confusion. Rivail in opening his introduction has this explanation: -
FOR new ideas new words are needed, in order to secure clearness of language by
avoiding the confusion inseparable from the employment of the same term for
expressing different meanings. The words spiritual, spiritualist, spiritualism, have
a definite acceptation; to give them a new one, in order to apply them to the
doctrine set forth by spirits, would be to multiply the causes of amphibology,
already so numerous. Strictly speaking, Spiritualism is the opposite of
Materialism; every one is a Spiritualist who believes that there is in him
something more than matter, but it does not follow that he believes in the
existence of spirits, or is their communication with the visible world. Instead,
therefore, of the words SPIRITUAL, SPIRITUALISM, we employ, to designate
this latter belief, the words SPIRITIST, SPIRITISM, which, by their form,
indicate their origin and radical meaning, and have thus the advantage of being
perfectly intelligible; and we reserve the words spiritualism, spiritualist, for the
expression of the meaning attached to them by common acceptation. We say,
then, that the fundamental principle of the spiritist theory, or Spiritism, is the
relation of the material world with spirits, or the beings of the invisible world; and
we designate the adherents of the spiritist theory as spiritists.
In a special sense, The Spirits’ Book contains the doctrine or theory of spiritism;
in a general sense, it appertains to the spiritualist school, of which it presents one
of the phases. It is for this reason that we have inscribed the words Spiritualist
Philosophy on its title-page.8
_______________
7
Taken from a re-print of The Spirits’ Book revised edition originally published in 1857. Free e-book
available see: - http://www.spiritandscience.org/lesp_us.pdf
8
Ibid., ref. 6
258
SPIRITUALISM IN THE LIGHT OF THEOSOPHY
by
Countess Constance Wachtmeister
Introductory Note by Psypioneer:
Countess Wachtmeister was one of many Spiritualists who became a Theosophist;
indeed her Reminiscences of H.P. Blavatsky (1893) are in Adyar T.S. regarded as almost
canonical. The Countess is not so highly regarded, however, by Theosophists in the Judge
tradition as she was a strong supporter of Annie Besant in the schism of the mid-1890s.
She was also taken to task by Edward Maitland, the biographer of Anna Kingsford for her
references to AK in the Reminiscences.
This lecture is of interest, not only for several incidents of high strangeness which
it relates, but also for presenting the theory, once popular among Theosophists, that
Modern Spiritualism was founded by the living and not by the dead. (cf Annie Besant on
the Yucatan Brotherhood9
)
_________
Spiritualism in the Light of Theosophy
A Stenographic Report of a Lecture delivered by Countess Wachtmeister
at the North-Western Spiritualists' Camp Meeting, July 23d, 1897
It is with much pleasure that I find myself here on this platform, because in days gone
by I have been a spiritualist, and have possessed the power of mediumship; I have passed
through all the different stages of mediumship, and therefore feel that what I relate to you
to-day is said from experience and knowledge, and not from hearsay. I have felt all the
joys as well as the sorrows of mediumship, and having passed through these various
stages I have entertained the greatest pity for those mediums who have been found out in
trickery and fraud, because knowing the laws that govern mediumship, having been
amongst mediums of all kinds and descriptions, I understand what are the temptations
which lie in their way. When I was a spiritualist my great endeavor was to have a home
formed for mediums – a home where they would be able to live in happiness, surrounded
by beautiful scenery, exquisite flowers, lovely paintings and soul inspiring music. So that
being surrounded by everything that is grand, both in nature and in art, they would then
9
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP2.7July06.pdf See also: - From Spiritualism to Theosophy by
Francesca Arundale http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/2.3%20PSYPIONEERFoundedbyLesliePrice.pdf
259
be able to give more satisfactory seances to the public than are being given today, when
they are compelled to lead a life amongst all kinds of persons, a promiscuous
environment where the magnetism is of a lower order and the vibrations inharmonious.
These work upon the medium in a harmful way, his organism being so sensitive that he is
like an instrument upon which play all the vibrations around him, each one fluttering
against and setting his sensitive organism into commotion, swaying it either for good or
for evil, so that perfect harmony and peace are absolutely necessary for mediums. I used
my best endeavors to persuade rich persons interested in Spiritualism to form such a
home – but selfishness met me on every side. What did they care – they paid their money
for their seances, and then what mattered it to them what became of the unfortunate
mediums; and so I failed.
HOMES FOR MEDIUMS
But let me put once more this project before you. How wise it would be here in
America, where you have such a vast number of Spiritualists that you should entertain
this idea and bring this proposition once more before the public. There are many wealthy
persons who would perhaps be willing to help if you only placed the plan before them
plainly and clearly, and then such a home might be founded – such a retreat formed, so
that when you held your seances you would be certain that those seances would be under
the best conditions. In San Francisco, several years ago, I mooted this idea to many
Spiritualists, and they told me that they were contemplating building a large edifice that
was to have various rooms, one for materialization, one for trance-mediumship, and so
on; each room would be devoted entirely to one particular kind of mediumship; and it
was also decided to have a large organ in the center of the Lyceum, so that during the
seances, beautiful and grand music would be filling the air with harmonious melodies.
When I passed through San Francisco this spring, I learned that the project was
strengthening in the minds of the Spiritualists, and that they hoped soon to erect such an
edifice.
Now this is good so far, but not enough, because you want a home for your mediums
where they need not live in penury, often wanting a crust of bread, for such conditions
actually have I found in my experiences, and it caused me many a pang to see the misery
and poverty that surrounded those unfortunate beings; and when I found them tricking at
seances and afterwards expostulated with them – this is the answer which they invariably
gave me: "Are we to starve? When we give genuine seances so much vitality oozes out of
us that during the daytime we are unable to do our work; we spend most of the hours in a
sleepy, hazy condition; it is impossible for us to give materializing seances continually
without feeling the injurious effect on the physical health, and utter prostration as a
consequence." Therefore, if you love your Spiritualism, you should also care for your
mediums, making their surroundings pleasant, agreeable, and above all, pure for them,
and then would your seances be far more satisfactory than they are to-day.
260
PERSONAL EXPERIENCE
When mediumship first burst upon me, it came like a wonderful revelation, and I felt
as if a divine inspiration had overshadowed me, so that I must go out into the world and
proclaim this grand mystery to all who would listen to it. But before doing so, I felt that it
was my duty to investigate and to know thoroughly what I was talking about. I gave up
two years of my life entirely to the study, living, as I tell you, in the vicinity of the best
mediums; traveling from country to country, so that I should gather together the
experiences of different nationalities and thus discover if they coincided one with the
other. I studied and read all on the subject that was to be found, for I considered that if
Spiritualism could be demonstrated before the world as having no dross within it, and
that it was a pure philosophy, then would I consecrate my life to it. Now how did I
investigate? By very simple, but effectual, methods. I engaged a medium for a certain
number of seances, say 10 or 12, paying him highly, so that he would give his services
entirely to me during this series of seances. Then the group of persons around me were in
perfect sympathy with the medium and myself, and no stranger was ever admitted, as it
was necessary to keep the conditions of perfect harmony and not permit any other kind of
magnetism to penetrate where the best sort of manifestations were desired. The results
were extraordinary, and I will describe to you one seance, to show you what it is possible
to obtain if proper conditions are adhered to.
MATERIALISATION EXPLAINED
My test rules were the following: Pieces of paper sealed with my own seal across the
doors, cupboards and windows, so that nobody could enter from without, and a box of
matches in my pocket ready to be lighted at any moment. At this seance the medium lay
on a sofa with a curtain before him, a gas-jet burning in the room with pale tissue paper
before it, but every object clearly visible to the eye. After hearing the medium give a few
sighs, the entity appeared and seated himself on a chair by my side for 20 minutes, as
seen by the clock. I then with my scissors cut off a piece of his robe and watched it in my
hand gradually fade away, and then as it vanished the entity remarked "that is a part of
the vitality of the medium," and as he went on explaining how mediums lose their vitality
at every physical seance, I looked earnestly in his eyes to catch every word he said. I
suddenly saw those eyes disappear, and that was the only thing which proved – to me that
the entity sitting near me was not a human being, for every time I gazed intently into
those eyes, they seemed to vanish and only cavities remained; how, indeed, could they be
materialized when we know that the eyes are the windows of the Soul? The entity now
retreated, saying, "I am going to produce for you what has rarely been done at any
seance. I will bring the medium into this room so that you may touch and feel him, and
thus certify to the world the truth of materialization." He then disappeared behind the
screen, and that tall figure brought out in his arms the medium who looked like a
skeleton, all of the clothes hanging from him, so that taking his hand the flesh fell down
in bags; then the entity spoke: "I have drawn the vitality from the medium. If you were
suddenly to try to arouse him he would die, because I should not have time to restore the
magnetism into his system." The medium was indeed a pitiable object, wrinkled and
loose skin hanging about the skeleton form, all the vitality out of him. Looking then at the
261
entity, I asked him whether the whole of his body was materialized, and he replied: "It is
not – the brain is empty – that is the case in nearly all materializations, the brain is a
cavity, because were we to take the particles from the brain the medium would become
insane. Therefore, we have to be most careful not to attempt to materialize the brain, but
instead cover the brain either with a semblance of hair, or with some kind of headgear."
Finally the entity observed, "I must now put back the vitality of the medium or he will
die," and then disappearing, the vitality was restored to the medium, who, when fully
awake, was unconscious of what had occurred during his trance state, only felt himself
thoroughly exhausted. I have also learned much in regard to materialization which
probably may interest you. When a materialization has to be built up, it is usually the
etheric body of the medium which serves as a basis; then electrical particles are drawn
from the air and gathered together and placed on the etheric body. Then magnetism is
drawn out of both the medium and the sitters, and with the magnetism the electrical
particles are woven on to the etheric body. That makes a vehicle into which any entity
steps, and as he enters, that vehicle being chameleon-like in nature and entirely plastic, he
can shape it into any form he pleases and model the features he desires to produce.
Then again, the pictures so often shown at seances are manipulated in much the same
way – the electrical particles are woven together – are coated with the magnetism of
medium and sitter, and then on that surface is projected a likeness of any friend whom the
sitters wish to see, the astral counterpart of that friend being portrayed in the aura of the
sitter, or else the actual entity being present and lending himself to the operation.
Once, in the course of my investigations, I developed a medium for materialization. I
was in Paris at the time, and I was asked, by one of the first mediums of to-day in that
city, if I would hold a seance with her, for she had received a communication telling her
that I had the power to develop her. Now her whole soul longed for such manifestation,
for they had not a single medium with materializing capacity in Paris, and so she
implored me to accede to her wish. I sat with her, and the very first evening, as I clasped
her hand in mine, we being entirely alone, her hands became cold and clammy, and
gazing upwards she said to me, "Look!" I turned to the corner of the room, and there I
saw gradually growing a materialization. It was transparent, and afterward, when the
medium showed the picture of her sister, I recognized it as the portrait of her relative. The
medium then fell into a dead trance, and I, striking a light, watched this strange figure
gradually fade away. I left Paris the next day, but the medium was opened for
materialization, and afterwards when I read the French papers, I was amused to find that
the medium was holding seances with many entities coming out around her.
The reason I have told you this is because I wish to explain to you that such seances
can be held under test conditions. I made the medium solemnly promise that she would
always keep to the conditions which I imposed upon her, namely, that she should sit in
the center of the circle covered with drapery, so that her form would be invisible, a faint
light in the room sufficient to render every object clear and distinct, with the visitors
seated around her at a distance, thus no possible fraud could take place, for all
262
materializations would come only within the circle, and she would be safe from all
temptation to impose on the public fraudulent manifestations.
Having pursued my investigations to the end of these two years, I came to the
conclusion that mediumship for me was not desirable for the following reason:
I did not care to make myself passive, thus permitting entities of the other side to take
possession of my body. I was never unconscious, so that during the whole time that I
passed through these various stages of mediumship, I was as conscious as I am at the
present moment.
But I reasoned thus: All the experiences given by these mediums (and I must have
visited over fifty) are different, each experience seems to conflict with others of its kind, I
can nowhere discover a law which binds the whole together, therefore it is impossible
that this can be the whole of the truth; it is only a fragment – a very imperfect one – of a
vast philosophy. There must be something beyond it. I knew well that what I received
was genuine, but at the same time there was no coherence or coordinate system in
Spiritualism; there was not a philosophy that could be placed before the world with such
a coherence of thought that it would be accepted really by intelligent people.
RESULTS OF INVESTIGATIONS
What Spiritualism has most gloriously achieved is the showing to mankind that there
is a state after death, a life beyond the physical and material plane, that intelligences are
able to work the finer forces of nature and also that astral bodies are able to communicate
with the living. You are able to draw your dead back again into consciousness on this
plane; but is that wise, or is that right? You who do not think it desirable to go down into
the slums or into the prisons to help to elevate the moral tone of the degraded people you
can find in those conditions, will yet willingly accept visits from those same degraded
entities, if they only come from the other side! There is a sort of unwholesome
fascination about it. As one lady said to me – a lady of title in London who held her
private seances: "Oh, such fun to-day! Why, we had that man (who has hanged last
week), who had committed those horrible crimes; he came and we had such fun making
him confess the details of his guilt." This revolted me! Such were not the grand thoughts
which should inspire Spiritualists. I felt that such wonderful influx of power had been
thrown down into Spiritualism that it should rise into something grander and wider, into
something more noble; that all that kind of amusement should be discarded; that all those
promiscuous seances, where you bring in every kind of person, every kind of magnetism,
every sort of vibration and condition, should be put on one side; that laws should pervade
the whole; that all Spiritualists should adhere to those laws, so that every kind of seance
should be given under law; then there would be a possibility of having some kind of order
and coherence. But traveling about from one country to another, as I did, I found that
curiosity and amusement seemed to be the prevailing object and only basis for the study
and manifestation of Spiritualism.
263
TURNS TO OCCULTISM
From Spiritualism I turned to Occultism, and there I found that there was a method of
developing the faculties which would enable any person to reach to the planes where the
departed dwell. As I advanced in my studies, I found them so intensely interesting that I
determined to give up Spiritualism, simply for the reason that I could get nothing more
out of it. I had had test seances for the very highest spiritual knowledge, but these seances
proved to be a kind of repetition of what was in the minds of the sitters. Though I tried in
every possible way to get a coherent philosophy, I failed entirely to do so.
To banish my mediumship, I had to develop my will-power. Therefore I began,
willing at every animate and inanimate object, until I had developed my will-power to
that extent that I was able to close the door of mediumship, and from that time have never
had a single phase of mediumship, because having once fastened that door I have kept it
tightly closed.
I then began trying what effect this will power would have at seances. I visited one
where little tables were scattered in the room, with people seated around them. It was a
public room in Paris. An old man was talking to his son who had been dead for three
years, and since that death the old man had received weekly communications from his
boy. I went up to that table, directed my will power between him and his son and the
table stopped; the old mad was bewildered, he could not understand why his son should
be silent, and at last the tears rolled slowly down his cheeks. I moved away. The table
was still. The thought then came to me, "What right have I to stand between that man and
his son? What right have I to impose my will upon another human being?" Then I
removed my will-power, and in a few moments the table was running along merrily, and
the old man was happy once more.
When alone, I pondered over this great problem and came to the conclusion that I was
acting wrongly; that no human being has the right to exercise will-power over another
human being. I looked upon it as a crime, and from that day dropped the physical will-
power.
COMES TO THEOSOPHY
Later on, I came into Theosophy. A perusal of Isis Unveiled showed me that in that
volume were many of the ideas which I had formulated during my investigation of
Spiritualism. I joined the Theosophical Society in the hope of gaining knowledge, the
same motive which had prompted me when I joined the Spiritualists. Then I began the
same process of investigation in Theosophy, and soon I discovered that there was another
kind of will-power, a spiritual will-power; that was the right kind of power to possess.
And how is it to be obtained? Through selfabnegation, through denying yourself in all
ways, through unselfishness and, lastly, through the killing out of desires, for every desire
is a bond which binds you to earth. Imagine each desire as a hook, each hook fastened on
to the things you long for, each hook attached to some worldly object. On every hook is a
chain which winds around you binding you down to earth. With every desire that you can
264
overcome that hook unfastens, the chain loosens, drops from you and then does the
spiritual force surge up. Therefore, every desire that you can overcome for earthly things,
every hook that you can unfasten, liberates the spiritual power within you.
Later on, the origin and the purpose of the great Spiritualistic movement was
explained to me. I learned why Spiritualism had come into the world.
THE WHEREFORE OF SPIRITUALISM
A group of Atlantean Adepts, who had brought with them the traditions of that older
period of time and the knowledge of Occultism, as practiced in those early days, seeing
how the world was rushing down into materialism with rapid strides, noticing how, as
persons were developing their intellectual powers, the churches gradually lost their hold
upon them, and so having nothing to cling to they were drifting down into materialism,
the Lodge determined to stop this terrible downward course; and a spiritual influx was
thrown down here into America, and then began the Rochester manifestations, these
Adepts being living men, great souls from Atlantis incarnated into the bodies of North
American Indians. It was they who brought forward this grand movement of Spiritualism.
But unfortunately Spiritualism has nowhere followed altogether the course it was
intended to develop, because their object was that Spiritualism through its phenomena
should show to the world that there is a life after death; that there are forces in existence
finer and more subtle than the material forces; that there are other planes besides this
physical plane. Thus far it has succeeded; but it was the intention also of these Adepts to
pour out through Spiritualism the vast philosophy of the Wisdom Religion, and in this the
failure comes. Why? Because the people were so delighted with the phenomena, so taken
with the novelty of the manifestations, that they all rushed into phenomena at once; they
wanted nothing more. They were able to communicate with their dearly beloved – what
then did they care for philosophy?
And so these Adepts, finding the impossibility of turning the minds of people into
more serious channels, quietly receded from the movement; but there is still the chance of
making the conditions favorable so that these Adepts who were at the head of your
Spiritualistic Society would return to you. They are glorious beings, advanced Adepts,
but living in the human body. Why then should you not develop your mediumistic
powers according to law, so that you might become instruments for these Adepts for
work in your own country? Every medium has some of the inner faculties awakened, but
every medium, more or less, is an irresponsible being, because not understanding the
laws he does not know how to produce phenomena at will. No medium can enter on to
the other planes with perfect knowledge of all the conditions of those planes – a little
glimpse does not reveal all of that inner world's conditions. No medium has the power of
entering on to the other planes with full intelligence, helping those that have gone beyond
on the actual planes in which they find themselves; this requires the perfect knowledge.
265
WHITE LODGE IN THE HIMALAYAS
Later on, in 1875, a messenger appeared from the great White Lodge in the
Himalayas: H. P. Blavatsky, the disciple of the Masters, was sent by those great teachers
to stem the tide that was rushing towards materialism; she turned, as you will remember,
first to the Spiritualists, hoping to get a certain number around her to listen to the grand
philosophy which it was her duty to spread all over the world, but disappointment was the
result, phenomena proved too attractive. The Theosophical Society was formed in New
York in 1875, and H. P. Blavatsky gathered around from all sides those who were willing
to listen to the grand truths which she had to expound. H. P. B. said to all those pupils
who came to learn of her the inner truths of Occultism: "Never accept anything because I
tell you it is true, but take what I tell you as a hypothesis on which to work; follow on the
lines I will give to you, and then gradually you will be able to find for yourselves that
what I tell you is true." Those pupils have gone on year after year, following the
directions thus given to them, and, just as water dropping on to a stone will by degrees
wear that stone away, so have these pupils been able by unwearied attention to develop
all these wonderful psychical faculties with knowledge, so that now to-day, at any
moment, they can enter on to the astral or heavenly planes – they can meet their
comrades, can converse with them, as also with the souls of those who have passed
through death and, returning to the earth, can translate that knowledge on to the physical
brain. These persons can bring their different experiences together, and finding that they
corroborate one another, they thus place before the public testimony that is worthy of
consideration.
SPIRITUALISM AND THEOSOPHY
Now the difference between Spiritualism and Theosophy is, that in your Spiritualism
you try to draw your loved ones down on to the physical plane of our existence, whereas,
we in Theosophy endeavor to draw ourselves upwards on to both the astral and spiritual
planes. You think that you benefit your friends by bringing them back to earthly
conditions; we maintain that as the law of Evolution is continual progression, it is
harmful to retard the progress of those who have left this earth by inducing them to
return, because every manifestation here causes them to imbibe a. certain amount of
magnetic vitality which prevents their astral bodies from disintegrating as quickly as they
otherwise would; and so Spiritualism retards instead of helping the loved ones.
Now, what is the work of these disciples of the Great Masters of Theosophy, who are
thus able to enter on to these various planes at will? Their work and their privilege is to
receive the souls of the dead. There is not one single soul that passes from this life that is
not welcomed on the other side by living men and women. These souls look upon them
as angels because they see them in their astral or spiritual bodies, but they are the living
men and women of to-day; and they show those souls how to progress; they show them
their true conditions; they comfort them and help them to reach on to higher planes. In
Lucifer, the English journal of our Society, you will find an interesting article on this
subject, called "Invisible Helpers," by Mr. Leadbeater; also in his .books, The Astral
Planes and Devachan, he gives you a detailed description of these higher planes. Would
266
it not be desirable for you to develop your psychic gifts in this way? If you could only
develop your psychic faculties so that you had the command of them, then you would
know that what you gave out to the world was correct and true. And then again, would it
not be a wonderful privilege to help your loved ones on the other side?
On the physical plane, as I have already told you, go into your prisons, go into your
slums, and help people while in their physical bodies; but if you want to help your friends
in their astral bodies, then meet them on their own plane and render them there the
services and help which you cannot give them here.
THE FOUR BODIES IN MAN
Theosophy teaches much that is interesting in regard to the four bodies in man,
namely, the physical, the astral, the mental and the spiritual bodies. Now the physical
body should be held as a holy temple for the one who wants to develop psychically. The
body should be kept cleanly in every way, bathing should be a daily practice, so as to
keep the pores of the skin perfectly pure and fresh. Then again, the matter of food is of
great importance, because, as you build up your physical body with various atoms, so
does it become either gross or ethereal. If you eat the grosser foods, such as flesh meats,
then you build up your body with the grosser particles, and thus make it less susceptible
to the higher influences. The great importance of this is that the astral body is built up and
fed on the astral emanations of the food you take. Therefore, if animal flesh is consumed,
the astral body is fed with the psychic emanations of the animals. All animals have
passions, such as jealousy, anger, etc, and you draw into your own astral body those
particular elements, it being the body of desire. The astral body contains all our emotions
both for good and for evil. Therefore we should try not to augment the evil by
assimilating into it the passions of the animal kingdom; instead, we should turn to the
finer foods of nature so that purer emanations should help in the building of this ethereal
body. Fruits are the best, and everything on which the sun shines, because the sun has a
wonderfully vitalizing effect, so that those who are eager for the purest and best
development should eat only fruit and nuts.
But this is only the first and primitive stage. The mental and moral have also to be
developed; and how is the mental body to be built? The only process is through the
thinking faculty. You build up this body exactly in accordance with your thoughts; so that
if your thoughts are very trifling and only occupied with the every-day gossip of the
world or trivial occupations, you build up a very imperfect mental body. Daily should
you medicate and concentrate; daily should you set your mind on some noble ideal or
virtue; and then, by slow degrees, will you be able to turn the current of your thoughts
from trivialities and nonsense to higher themes and nobler conceptions of virtue. You
may read a hundred books in a year and yet know nothing of what is contained in those
books – it is only what you really assimilate which becomes your own. So it is far better
to read only one good book and to have imbibed the essence of all that is noble and
elevating within it, than to skim over many books leaving the jewels within them
untouched.
267
Then the spiritual body, how does that grow? By every thought of devotion., every
thought of worship, so that every aspiration towards the divine is augmenting the joy and
blessing which will be experienced in the heavenly state; for the more a man longs for the
spiritual while on earth, the more happiness awaits him on the other side. Theosophy has
much to teach because it lays down plain rules to be followed in every-day life; it also
explains how you should develop your faculties with understanding, and then it places
before you the possibility of developing your inner psychic powers so that you may gain
control over them.
I have spoken to you to-day with my heartfelt wishes that some of these words – of
mine may find a responsive chord within your hearts, so that you will realize the truth of
what I am telling you.
LIVING ADEPTS GUIDING SPIRITUALISM
When I learned that the Adepts who started the Spiritualistic movement were living
men, a kind of revelation and explanation of certain experiences of my own came to me,
proving to me that some phases of the movement were really guided by Adepts living in
the physical body. In Europe I heard that there was a group of Spiritualists who obtained
wonderful manifestations. They were seven in number, and these people had given up
their lives entirely to Spiritualism; they no longer cared for the pleasures of the world –
they cared only for the work in which they were engaged. I went to the house with a
certain hesitation, not knowing how I, a total stranger, should be received when I asked
them to admit me into their circle. What was my astonishment then when they welcomed
me cordially, saying, "We have been expecting you!" On inquiring how this could be,
they replied, "We are a band of people who belong to circles of seven all over the world.”
The Head of our Society is a living man in America. We do not know him personally,
but friends have met him in his physical body, and he has control over all these circles
situated in different countries.He is aware of all that takes place in each circle, and directs
the work to be done; each circle sits at the same hour, with thoughts and minds centered
on the particular work in hand." They then informed me that in their own circle a member
was able to leave his own body at will, and in his astral would visit another circle, take
possession of the medium, and then would give teachings to that circle, so that the
medium, instead of being controlled by a departed entity, was being used by a living
man.This circle fell into disgrace, having abused power confided to them, and a telegram
at once received from America ordered all meetings to be closed, and manifestations to
cease. They were terribly despondent; having given up the pleasures of the world, their
life seemed just a blank, and the trial was a severe one. They determined to sit all the
same, thinking that perhaps the Head in America would not know; but it was useless –
they could not obtain a single rap. One day another telegram arrived, saying, "A lady will
call on you, give her everything, communications opened."
You may imagine the joy with which they received me. I came; I sat with them, and
the manifestations were simply marvelous. I remained with them for a week. They
268
wanted me to join their band, but I said "No; my object is to study Spiritualism, and I can
join nothing until I have finished that work."
They then offered to communicate with me at a distance, and I agreed, thinking it
would be interesting. They then said, "Would you like Jonathan to visit you; he is the
one whom the Head in America always uses when he wants to perform any great physical
manifestation." In my innocence I replied, "Yes."
SOME OCCULT EXPERIENCES
I left them; I went to Switzerland, and, suddenly, in the middle of the night, I awoke
hearing voices talk to me. I got up, wrote down what was said, and then afterwards,
through letters verified that what I had heard was actually correct. One day a most awful
experience came to me. I was in a Hotel about to retire to rest, when suddenly I heard a
voice like the rumbling of thunder, and in a moment every piece of furniture was turned
around. The noise was fearful, and the thought came to me – people in the Hotel will be
alarmed. What shall I do? I exclaimed, "Jonathan, is it you?" and a deep rumbling "Yes"
was the answer. I begged him with all my heart to go away. I heard steps coming up the
stairs. I locked my door, but it was of no use. The door was opened and the Hotel-keeper
came in: "What have you been doing with this furniture?" "Oh," I replied, "when I come
to a Hotel I always like to change the furniture in my room. I hope it did not disturb
you?" He looked at me and said, "Are your arms so strong?" "Oh, yes," I replied, "well
developed muscles." He left me with these words: "I hope you will not move any more
furniture, or we shall have to come again." I locked my door quickly, and I whispered to
myself, if it comes again I shall be put into a lunatic asylum." I retired to rest, but did not
sleep so afraid was I that Jonathan would return, and early the next morning I paid my
bill and went away.
Now this corroborates the idea that your Society has been controlled by living Adepts.
Again to prove to you how Occult Societies can be guided by living men. When I was in
Germany I heard of a certain group of men and women, also seven in number (always
strange that number seven), who were determined to sit for Spiritualistic manifestations,
to develop into mediums; but the very first night they were informed that such was not to
be their object; they were to develop their faculties, so that they would be able with
knowledge to enter on all planes at will, and then they would be able in Germany to bring
forward the Theosophical teachings, because the Germans, who are so proud of their
philosophers and of their past records of philosophy, would be unwilling to accept
Theosophy from England. Therefore the great Adepts of the White Lodge sent one of
their messengers to that group of men and women, who could neither read nor write, with
the exception of one boy who acted as scribe, and, by slow degrees, they developed the
marvelous powers within them.
On acquainting Madame Blavatsky with these facts, she replied "I know those people;
there is an Adept in Nuremburg who is developing them." She then begged me to go to
Kempton, the town where they were living and verify for myself how wonderful were
their great gifts and knowledge; also H. P. Blavatsky prophesied "that in time those men
269
will have royal personages as their pupils." This prediction, I have been told, has come
true. The men and women who once lived in a factory have to-day a hundred pupils to
whom they teach the laws of Occultism, such as we have it in our Theosophical Society,
only they give out in Western terms that which has been given to us in Eastern
phraseology. Thus is it proved, beyond a doubt, that living Adepts are controlling Occult
Societies all over the world; but the great White Lodge of the Adepts in the Himalayas is
the grand goal to which all, one day, will reach; and every true Adept looks with
reverence and love to those divine Teachers and Helpers of humanity. Therefore, let each
one, in whatever Society he may find himself, try to develop the powers that are lying
latent within himself, so that as they blossom out into activity, he may work for the
service of mankind, not only on this plane but on other and finer planes of being.
C. W.
(MERCURY PRINT, 414, MASON STREET, SAN FRANCISCO, CAL. I897 price,
Five cents.)
________________
THE WORK OF Mrs HENRY SIDGWICK
A PIONEER OF THE S.P.R
Taken from LIGHT August 6, 1936 page 501
Introductory Note by Psypioneer:
Mrs Sidgwick was not a popular name among Spiritualists. This was because of
her skepticism about physical mediumship, of which an early sign was in the dispute
about Eglinton in 1886 which led to the withdrawal of some Spiritualists from the SPR,
and a century of cold war. Nevertheless, she was perhaps the most influential woman
ever in psychical research, about whom everyone should know.
_________
THE major part of the June [1936] number of the Proceedings of the S.P.R., was
taken up by an admirable paper on the work of Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, by Miss
Alice Johnson. The biography has been dealt with by others; but no one could have
been better fitted to deal with the actual work of this remarkable woman than Miss
Johnson, who for so many years worked, as her secretary, for and with Mrs.
Sidgwick.
270
In her early youth, Miss Balfour (as, Mrs. Sidgwick then was) took a keen interest not
only in science, but also in mathematics. "She once remarked to me," says Miss Johnson,
"that mathematics especially appealed to her because she thought a future life would be
much more worth living if it included intellectual pursuits; and I imagine the abstract
nature of pure mathematics seemed to her especially adapted to a disembodied
existence."
In 1874, Henry Sidgwick, who had been experimenting in Psychical Research at
Cambridge, arranged for a series of sittings with friends in London; and it was on coming
to join this circle at the house of her brother A. J. Balfour (afterwards first Earl of
Balfour), that Miss Balfour, then still under thirty, showed at once her marked aptitude
for investigation. "She, brought to it the indefatigable patience and perseverance that such
work requires; she was a keen observer and ingenious in devising simple and effective
tests . . . She had the same preference, for the simplest kind of apparatus for whatever
work she was engaged in; although interested in all mechanical devices, she was never
tempted to become so far interested in perfecting them as to lose sight of the ends they
were intended to serve."
After her marriage to Henry Sidgwick in 1876, Mrs. Sidgwick became a whole-
hearted co-operator in his work, fully sharing his opinion as to the inadvisability of
experimenting with fraudulent Mediums- "Not because," to quote Mr. Sidgwick, "I hold
that evidence involving trickery cannot be raised to a pitch that would exclude its
possibility . . . but because an extended experience has led me to regard the chance of its
being so raised as too slight to counterbalance the palpable evil of encouraging an
immoral trade."
To this Miss Johnson adds: "I lay stress on the point, because I think the attitude of the
Sidgwicks on it has often been misunderstood. They never maintained that because a
Medium had cheated once, none of his performances could be genuine. But they
condemned the tacit encouragement given to fraudulent Mediums, who know that no
exposure would prevent their continuing to drive a profitable trade; and the consequent
discouragement of honest amateurs."
In 1882, the S.P.R. was founded, with Henry Sidgwick as its first President, and much
work was done by both husband and wife. They took a large share in preparing
Phantasms of the Living, by Myers, Gurney and Podmore: "they corresponded with
informants, interviewed witnesses, and were consulted at every stage by the authors. Mrs.
Sidgwick also spent much time and labour over the proof-reading."
The first important paper in the Proceedings published under her own name was in
1885, Phantasms o f the Dead, consisting of about 370 narratives (chosen out of a much
larger number) mostly of apparitions. In it Mrs. Sidgwick observes that: "No single case,
however remarkable, could prove conclusively the agency of the dead; only the
cumulative effect of much good evidence could justify belief in it."
271
She was an indefatigable worker. In 1886, she wrote a comprehensive history of
Spiritualism for the Ninth Edition of the Encyclopædia Britannica; and when, in 1888,
Gurney died, a fresh burden was laid on those who valued and wished to preserve his
work. Henry Sidgwick was made Editor of both the S.P.R. Proceedings and the S.P.R.
Journal, which meant "that Mrs. Sidgwick did practically all the work," making herself
responsible for all the proof-reading.
Her next important piece of work was a series of experiments in thought-transferance
carried out in Brighton, about which Miss Johnson writes: "As her assistant in this series,
I was impressed by her unwearying patience through a long sequence of tedious
experiments; she never seemed to relax her efforts, and never seemed bored. She treated
all the persons concerned with the utmost consideration-one might almost say respect-as
if they were human beings, not mere subjects for experiment; and they all became much
attached to her and liked to talk to her in the intervals about their own affairs. I remarked
how different was the atmosphere on a few occasions when one or other of her helpers
was in charge."
"Then came a great change. In 1892, Miss Clough, first Principal of Newnham
College, died. Mrs. Sidgwick had for many years been a Member of the Council, and
now, by the earnest and unanimous desire of the Council, she and Mr. Sidgwick
consented to give up their own home., in order that she might become Principal of
Newnham-which office she held until 1910. "I fear," wrote her husband at the time, "that
she may not now find time for the work of the S.P.R., for which I think her uniquely
fitted-much more fitted than I am. If it turns out that she must sacrifice some of this work,
I shall have to take her place; but my intellect will be an inferior substitute for this work."
Her Secretary too expressed her doubts, and was told "Well, if you ever find me getting
slack about the S.P.R., you must pull me up.”But such fears were needless. Her unusual
powers of concentration enabled her to work concurrently for the College and for the S.
P. R. "Very few of those associated with her in either had any adequate realisation-many,
I think, were entirely ignorant-of her interest in the other. This was partly due to her
constant tendency to talk to people about their affairs, not her own, and her habit of
appearing at liberty to attend to anything brought before her."
Writings, investigations, statistical calculations for the Proceedings continued, Sir
Oliver Lodge, Myers and Richet had been experimenting with Eusapia Paladino, and in
1894, when this Medium was brought to Cambridge, Mr. and Mrs. Sidgwick found time
to bring to bear on these experiments all their knowledge and rare powers of observation.
"Every educated person," remarks Miss Johnson, in this connection, "assumes the
fallibility of human observation and human memory; but it is not easy to make full
allowance for it till one has discovered by practical experience how far one's own
fallibility goes in both respects." In the end, Mr. and Mrs. Myers, the Sidgwicks and Miss
Johnson were convinced of fraud; though Myers and Sir Oliver Lodge retained their
belief in the earlier series.
Later on, it was the American Medium, Mrs. Piper, whose trance work was being
investigated, and this lady stayed for some time in the home of Mr. and Mrs. Sidgwick.
272
Many of the "Piper Reports" in the Proceedings were written by Mrs. Sidgwick, in the
midst of all her work for the College. "She studied the details, both published and
unpublished, with extreme care, and herself attended many of the sittings . . . She
accepted the conclusions of most of the investigators that there was no evidence of fraud;
but, with her habitual caution, she thought that so tremendous a conclusion as proof of
communication with the dead could be based on the study, however prolonged, of a
single medium"
The year 1900 brought the great tragedy of Henry Sidgwick's death, and, with her
usual courage, Mrs. Sidgwick not only carried on her own work, but devoted herself to
completing as far as possible her husband's literary schemes. She brought out new
editions of his works, a volume of his Miscellaneous Essays, and also wrote a Memoir
of him.Automatic writing, cross-correspondence and book tests likewise engaged her
close attention, we are told; until one is tempted to wonder whether she ever allowed
herself any time for sleep.
In 1907, she undertook the office of Hon. Secretary of the S.P.R., which she retained
till 1932.
For two years, 1908 and 1909, she was President; but she could only be induced to
give one Presidential address, "for her forte lay rather in the detailed examination and
digestion of a mass of material than in a general survey of a wide miscellaneous field.
Her literary output was prodigious. She was constantly writing in reply to and
confutation of the criticisms of Psychical Research in one of its many branches made by
foreign or American scientists; and she published an important Contribution to the
Study of the Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena, which occupies the
whole of Vol. XXVIII. of the Proceedings.
Finally, in 1918, Miss Radcliffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge drew Mrs. Sidgwick's
attention to the work of Mrs. Osborne Leonard, with the result that in 1921 she published
An Examination of Book-Tests obtained in Sittings with Mrs. Leonard." Mrs.
Sidgwick analysed about 532 cases, some of which are cited in full. On the whole, she
considered they afforded a prima facie case for clairvoyance, with a suggested close
connection between telepathy and clairvoyance; e.g., "If telepathy (from the sitter)
operates in the finding of the book, and the perception of its surroundings, it might
facilitate the clairvoyant perception (by Feda) of the inside of the book which sometimes
follows."
Meanwhile, new editions of standard works were being prepared, elaborate statistics
were being worked out, and regular papers being written and made ready for publication.
Especially was this being done on the subject of Telepathy, and 1924-when the writer
was already 79 years of age-produced her "Report on Further Experiments in
Thought Transference carried out by Professor Murray."
273
"In 1932, the year of the Society's Jubilee, Mrs. Sidgwick was elected by the Council
President of Honour. It was then that she wrote the History of the S.P.R.; and its
concluding sentence, that, upon the evidence before her, she herself was `a firm believer
both in survival and in the reality of communication between the living and the dead '
must be fresh in the memory of all of us.
"As long as her strength permitted, she went up to London for S.P.R. meetings, and
wrote occasional book-reviews and minor articles. She read zealously all the Society's
publications, as well as any important new book on psychical subjects . . . and studied
carefully the proofs of articles for the Proceedings . . . Her continued openness to new
conceptions was remarkable. She used to say, `If this is so, we may have to revise our
ideas ' . . . There are, one hopes, many people of whom one could say the same, but not, I
think, many who, like her, are always looking out eagerly for new facts-whatever they
may lead to-whose intellectual curiosity remains insatiable up to the end of so long a life.
She died on February 10th, 1936, within a month of her ninety-first birthday.
"Yet it must not be supposed that the essence of her nature was pure intellect. She
valued human beings far more than ideas, or even than the causes for which she would
spend herself. Her own standard seemed above the reach of ordinary mortals, but she had
an infinite tolerance and charity for other people's weaknesses, and a most generous
appreciation of their capacities and achievements."
Please note: - “Copyright of all material appearing in LIGHT is reserved to the authors and original
publisher. It may not be reproduced or translated, either wholly or in part, without written permission.
LIGHT is still published by the College of Psychic Studies and you are urged to subscribe.
http://www.collegeofpsychicstudies.co.uk/index.html”
________________
274
Victoria Helen McCrae Duncan (née MacFarlane)
November 25th
1897 – 6th
December 1956
____________
In our previous issue, Helen Duncan, 1895, 1897 or 1898 – 195610
we asked which year
Helen Duncan was born? - and noted the wide variety of dates given in different sources.
We are indebted to Dr Malcolm Gaskill11
for providing us with what we trust will prove
the definitive evidence- a copy of Mrs Duncan’s birth certificate. He also offered a tip to
help remember the year- it was 1897, the year of Queen Victoria’s Jubilee, and Helen’s
other name was Victoria.
10
Page 242: - http://woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.10October08..pdf
11
Author of “Hellish Nell - Last of Britain’s Witches”, Fourth Estate, London 2001
275
THE ORIGINS OF “LIGHT”
It is not necessary to emphasise the importance of LIGHT in our area of studies. It is the
oldest psychic journal anywhere in the world, with a consistently high standard of
journalism. Nevertheless its history has not been much explored. Only recently, for
example, has it been realised how much it was helped by the generosity of Sir Arthur
Conan Doyle.
The newspaper was brought to birth by the genius of Edmund Dawson Rogers, who soon
after conceived the SPR, and was then a founder of the LSA. He gave this account in
“Life And Experiences of Edmund Dawson Rogers reprint from Light (1910c) p.44 -45”,
looking back at the problems of the British National Association of Spiritualists
The fact was that a great mistake had been made in appointing so large a Council; it
numbered about fifty. The Association was broken up in consequence, and was merged
into a society which was called ‘The Central Association of Spiritualists,’ but the
discouragement of the recent collapse was too great, and after a short time this society
also was disbanded. During the heated discussions which had taken place in the Council
of the British National Association, it was felt that the `Spiritualist' - the journal which
was regarded as the organ of the Association - had not fairly represented it.
In consequence of the dissatisfaction about the reports given in the `Spiritualist,' a
gentleman temporarily in London, Mr. J. G. Meugens, of Calcutta, whose name will be
remembered in connection with his very wonderful experiences with Mr. Eglinton,
suggested to me that a new paper should be started, to be the organ of the British
National Association. I at once communicated with a number of friends throughout the
country, and with their assistance `Light' was started on January 8th, 1881. The `
Spiritualist' soon afterwards disappeared.
I had from the first the business control of `Light,' but Mr. J. S Farmer was for a time the
editor, and after him Mr. Stainton Moses (`M.A., Oxon.').Mr. Stainton Moses died in
September, 1892, and Mr. W. Paice, M.A., took the editorship. He, however, also died
shortly- afterwards, and so the conduct of the paper fell into my hands altogether.
_______________
276
Exactly who edited LIGHT in the early days remains obscure, and Dr Eric Dingwall
contributed an article “ Light and the Farmer Mystery” to JSPR in the paper’s centenary
year of 1981 to try to clarify the role of John Stephen Farmer.
It is also puzzling that Rogers makes no mention of a small monthly publication
“Spiritual Notes” which BNAS paid to publish its news in the years just before LIGHT
was launched. In the final, December 1880 issue, “Spiritual Notes” commented (p.100).
.
“LIGHT”-A NEW WEEKLY JOURNAL IN
THE INTERESTS OF SPIRITUALISM
We announce in another page the completion of arrangements for the establishment
of a new journal to be published weekly, under the title of "LIGHT," and which will
be devoted to the furtherance of the cause whose interests we ourselves have, to the
best of our ability, consistently striven to promote. That "LIGHT" will do our work
far more efficiently than we have been able to do, we cannot for a moment doubt, and
therefore no alternative is left to us but to acknowledge that our own mission is at an
end, and to quietly retire. With this issue SPIRITUAL NOTES will cease.
When in July, 1878, we commenced the work which we have carried on to the present
time, our object was to assist somewhat in giving a higher tone to Spiritualistic
Journalism than that which had hitherto characterised it in this country, and to
sustain the movement by fair and impartial reports of its proceedings. We do not
pretend that in these purposes we have fully succeeded. But, at least, we have tried,
and have no consciousness of having ever been swayed by special favouritism on the
one hand or by bigotry and intolerance on the other. The reward of our favours has
been found in the valued friendships we have formed, and in the very kind and
generous spirit in which our efforts have been supported. For these we shall ever be
grateful.
Our own work being done we recommend "LIGHT" to our readers in the fullest
confidence that it will render such service to the cause of Spiritualism as no monthly
journal could possibly perform. It will be able to give all the intelligence connected
with the movement fully and promptly; and it will possess an advantage which
SPIRITUAL NOTES never had, in the fact that it will have money, influence, and
literary talent at its back.
Our closing words are an expression of hearty wishes for the success of "LIGHT,"
and of a hope that every one of our readers will at once secure shares in the new
company, and obtain as many subscribers as possible for the new paper. If well
started success will be certain!
277
It may be that the author of this editorial farewell was Rogers himself. “Spiritual Notes”
also carried in the December 1880 issue (p.95) an advertisement for shares in the new
company which would publish LIGHT.
THE ECLECTIC PUBLISHING COMPANY, LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Acts, 1862 to 1880
CAPITAL, £2,000, in. 2,000 Shares of £1 each.
(WITH POWER TO INCREASE.)
Payable as follows: Five Shillings on Application; Five Shillings on Allotment; the
Balance as required at intervals of not less than Three Months. No Call to exceed Two-
and-sixpence per Share. Twenty-eight days' notice to be given of each Call.
First Issue of ONE THOUSAND SHARES, of which Eight Hundred are already applied
for.
DIRECTORS.
ALEXANDER CALDER. 1, Hereford Square, South Kensington, S.W.
Rev. W. STAINTON-MOSES, M.A., 21, Birchington Road, Kilburn, N.W.
S. TEMPLEMAN SPEER, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra Road, South Hampstead,
N.W.
F. W. PERCIVAL, M.A., Barrister-at-Law, 15, Conduit Street, Bond Street, W.
DESMOND G. FITZ-GERAL'D, M.S. Tel. E., 6, Akerman Road, Brixton, S.W. W. P.
ADSHEAD, Derby House, Belper
JAMES BOWMAN, 65, Jamaica-street, Glasgow.
BANKERS:
LONDON AND COUNTY BANKING COMPANY, LIMITED, RICHMOND, LONDON.
AUDITOR:
MORELL THEOBALD, 62, Granville Park, Blackheath, S.E.
SECRETARY:
EDWARD T. BENNETT, The Mansion, Richmond, London.
TEMPORARY OFFICES:
13, WHITEFRIARS STREET, FLEET STREET, LONDON, E.C.
278
PROSPECTUS.
This Company is established with powers which will enable it, by means of Public
Journals or in, any other way, to advocate the claims of any cause or subject connected
with the public good, which it may deem to be insufficiently represented by agencies
already existing.
In the various branches of Science, or Knowledge, or General Literature, or
Experimental Research, which it may take up, it will assume a high-toned and thoroughly
impartial position, and aim to be a first-class medium of information to investigators.
The control over the general questions to be considered from time to time, will rest
with the general body of members.
A spirit of earnest enquiry into almost every department of human knowledge is more
widely diffused among the masses of the people than has ever before been the, case in
this country, especially in relation to various questions which might be named, which are,
comparatively speaking, neglected by the leading literary and scientific minds. Efficient
means of supplying this crowing demand are urgently needed and it is believed that a
wide field is open in this direction.
It is also believed that a very moderate investment of Capital in the manner which will
be proposed, will not only be attended with most advantageous results in regard to the
objects aimed at, but will afford a good, pecuniary return to the Shareholders.
The Immediate Object will be the starting and Sustaining of a Weekly Journal, to be
entitled "LIGHT"; devoted primarily to the collecting and recording of the facts and
phenomena of Spiritualism and the exposition of the Philosophy of Life and Mind; and
secondarily to the discussion of such allied topics as are now occupying the attention of
men of advanced thought.
The Directors are gratified with the promises of support which have already been
given them, and are prepared to receive applications for the few remaining Shares of the
first issue.
No contracts have hitherto been entered into by or on behalf of the Company.
The Memorandum, and Articles of Association may be seen and copies obtained at the
Offices of the Company.
Forms of Application for Shares may be obtained from Mr. E. T. Bennett, The
Mansion, Richmond, London.
~~~~~~~~~~
279
Elsewhere it was stated in the same issue of “Spiritual Notes”:
LIGHT:
A JOURNAL DEVOTED TO THE HIGHEST INTERESTS OF HUMANITY BOTH HERE
AND HEREAFTER.
______
Will be published on January 8th, 1881,
BY THE
Eclectic Publishing Company, Limited,
The FIRST NUMBER of a NEW WEEKLY JOURNAL
under the above TITLE
_______
There is a large class of people who believe in a world which they call "the present,"
and who assert that no knowledge of any other is attainable.
There is another large class of people who believe also in a world they call "the next,"
and who also assert that no other knowledge of it is attainable than that which has been
handed down to them.
There is yet another class of people-usually known as "Spiritualists "-who believe in
the existence of facts and phenomena, accessible to those who will seek for them,
demonstrating the existence of another world than the present, and who believe that, on
the basis of these facts, a science and a philosophy may be built up furnishing a key to the
problems of Life and Mind, and uniting both these worlds in one harmonious whole.
A pressing necessity exists for the establishment of a. high-toned and impartial Weekly
Journal, devoted primarily to the collecting and recording of these facts and to the
exposition of this philosophy, and, secondarily, to the fair discussion of such other allied
topics as are now occupying the attention of men of advanced thought.
These subjects have not yet found a representative in the Press of that literary
excellence which their rapid growth among the most intelligent classes of the community
imperatively demands. "LIGHT" will aim at supplying this defect.
For the Editorial Department of the new Journal, and for the supply of original matter,
the assistance of experienced journalists and of many of the ablest writers connected with
Spiritualism has been secured. In the Intelligence Department the news will be full and
complete. In both departments special care will be taken that the paper shall be
conducted on the strictest principles of an honourable impartiality, recognising heartily
as co-workers all who are striving to demonstrate the reality and importance of the truths
280
to which it is devoted, and all who are endeavouring, in any way, to further the highest
interests of Humanity here and hereafter.
__________
LIGHT
Will be published weekly, on Saturdays, commencing on January 8th, 1881, and will
consist of Twelve Pages, fo. f'cp., good paper and clear type.
PRICE TWOPENCE.
____
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS:
For copies sent direct from the, Office.
POST FREE.
ONE Copy (paid in advance)---------------------------------------------10s. 1Od. per annum.
Six Copies (paid in advance)-------------------------------------------------£2 12s, per annum.
Special Terms for Larger Numbers.
The Trade supplied by E. W. ALLEN, 11, Ave Maria Lane, E.C.
____
TO ADVERTISERS:
"LIGHT" will be an attractive and valuable Advertising Medium.
For Terms, Apply to General Manager,
Office of "LIGHT,"
13, WHITEFRIARS STREET, FLEET STREET, LONDON, E,C.
__________
Although we leave this question for the moment, readers will want to know what became
of the Eclectic Publishing Company, and how it came about that ownership of LIGHT
passed to the LSA..
_______________
Please note that due to Psypioneer’s library refurbishment the disruption has held
up the concluding part of: - Mr. Fred. Evans arrival at Brisbane which will be
published in the New Year.
281
PLEASE
SUPPORT PSYPIONEER WITH BUYING YOUR
BOOKS THROUGH US!
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
BOOKS FOR SALE
Please e-mail psypioneer@aol.com for details
‘Helen Duncan - The Mystery Show Trial’ By Robert Hartley @ £12.50 + Pp ISBN: 978-
0-9553420-8-0.
See Psypioneer 3.11: - http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.11November07..pdf
‘The Cathars and Arthur Guirdham’ Published by Psypioneer @ £4.50 Inc U.K.,
postage, elsewhere (airmail) £4.95 Inc postage. ISBN: 978 0 9536719 3 9.
See Psypioneer 4.4: - http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.4April08..pdf
‘Aquarian Evangelist: The Age of Aquarius as It Dawned in the Mind of Levi Dowling’
By John Benedict Buescher @ £14.50 – incl. U.K. postage.
See Psypioneer 4.1: - http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08..pdf
‘Mrs Miller’s Gift’ - A Celebration of 75 Years of the Edinburgh College of
Parapsychology formerly Edinburgh Psychic College & Library’ By Gerald O’Hara &
Ann Harrison @ £7.50 + Pp ISBN: 978-0-951-4534-9-0.
See Psypioneer 4.1: - http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP4.1January08..pdf
‘Dead Men’s Embers’ By Gerald O’Hara @ £14.99 +Pp £2.50 (U.K.) ISBN: 978-0-
9514534-6-9. See Psypioneer book review: -
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.1January07..pdf
‘Six Lectures on Theology and Nature’ By Emma Hardinge first published in 1860. Re-
Published by Psypioneer @ £14.95 + pp. ISBN: 978-0-9556539-0-2
See Psypioneer 3.6 issue: - http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/PP3.6June07..pdf
‘Magical Spiritualism - a warning address given in 1878 to mark thirty years of Modern
Spiritualism’, Andrew Jackson Davis. Published May 2000 by Psychic Pioneer
Publications, this is a small booklet 7pp £2.00 incl. U.K., postage (please add 20% for
airmail).
‘The Mystery of Stainton Moses an address given in 1992 on the centenary of his death’
Leslie Price Published December 1999 by Psychic Pioneer Publications, this is a small
booklet 8pp £2.50 Inc U.K., postage (please add 20% for airmail).
282
‘Occultism and Spiritualism – a book review by, Stainton Moses originally published
under the pseudonym M.A. (Oxon). Published 1999 by Psychic Pioneer Publications, this
is a small booklet 10pp £2.50 Inc U.K., postage (please add 20% for airmail).
All three Psychic Pioneer Publications £6.00 Inc U.K., postage (please add 20% for
airmail).
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
How to obtain this Newsletter
The Psypioneer newsletter is at present available, complete with all back issues on the
web site http://www.woodlandway.org and we are greatly indebted to our Australian friends
for hosting and posting this Newsletter. You can obtain it free and direct by sending an
e-mail entitled “Subscribe” to psypioneersub@aol.com or “Unsubscribe” to discontinue.
To contact Psypioneer please e-mail psypioneer@aol.com
Paul J. Gaunt
283
